The Private Complaint filed by the Complainant under Section 200 of Cr.P.C. against the accused alleging that he has

committed the offence punishable under Section 138 of

Negotiable Instruments Act. 2. The brief facts of the complaint are as follows: 3. Based on the complaint, the sworn statement affidavit,

and documents etc., took cognizance of an offence punishable

Under Section 138 of N.I. Act by following the guidelines of

Apex Court issued in Indian Bank Association case and ordered

to be registered a criminal case against the accused for the

offence punishable Under Section 138 of N.I. Act. 4 C.C.No.57730/2022 4. After issuance of summons, accused appeared before

the court and enlarged himself on bail. Plea was recorded, read

over and explained to the accused, who pleads not guilty and

claims to be tried. Hence, the case is posted for complainant's

evidence. 5. The Complainant got examined himself as PW-1 and

got marked documents Ex.P.1 to Ex.P.9. 6. Accused was examined U/S 313 of Cr.P.C . Incriminating evidence appearing in the complainant's evidence

was read over and explained to the accused who denies the

same. The Accused examined himself as DW1 and no

documents were marked from his end and closed his side.

However, Ex.D1 to 6 documents came to be marked through

confrontation during the cross-examination of PW1. 7. Heard both counsels at length in great detail. In

addition to the oral arguments, both the learned counsels

appearing for parties have filed their respective written

arguments. 8. Upon hearing the arguments and on perusal of the
materials placed on record, the following points arise for my
consideration. drawn on IndusInd Bank, Yelahanka New Town
 branch, Bengaluru. in favour of the
 complainant which came to be dishonoured
 with an endorsement "funds insufficient" and
 in spite of receipt of notice accused has not
 paid the Cheque amount and thereby
 committed an offence under Section 138 of
 N.I.Act? 2) What Order? 9. My findings on the above points is: 10. Existence of legally recoverable debt is a sine qua non

for prosecuting the case under Section 138 of Negotiable

Instruments Act. For convenient purpose the essential

ingredients to constitute offence under section 138 of N.I.Act is

summarized as below: 11. It is the core contention of the complainant that,

the Accused has approached him in the month of February

2022 for a handloan of Rs.3.75 lakhs to meet his necessities for

developing and improving the hotel business purposes. Looking

to the pathetic condition of the Accused, he paid Rs.3.75 lakhs

to the Accused by way of cash on 16.2.2022 and on the same

day, the Accused executed an On Demand Promissory Note and

Consideration Receipt in favour of the Complainant and hand

promised to return the loan amount within six months from the

date of receipt of amount. After expiry of stipulated period, he

demanded for the repayment of the said amount and the

Accused had issued a Cheque bearing No.732473 dtd.1.9.2022

for Rs.3,75,000/- drawn on IndusInd Bank, Yelahanka New

Town branch, Bengaluru towards discharge of said loan

amount which was returned dishonoured with reason "funds

insufficient" on 3.9.2022. Thereafter, the Complainant got

issued demand notice through RPAD on 15.9.2022, through his

counsel to the Accused. The said notice was delivered to the

Accused on 4.10.2022. Despite receipt of the legal notice the

Accused has neither paid the Cheque amount nor replied the 7 C.C.No.57730/2022 notice. Hence, the Complainant has filed the present complaint

against the Accused for the offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of

N.I. Act. 12. In order to bring home the guilt of the accused,

complainant has examined himself as PW1 and reiterated the

contents of complaint in his examination-in-chief. He has also

placed the original Cheque bearing No.732473 dtd.1.9.2022 at

Ex.P.1, bank challan at Ex.P2, bank endorsement at Ex.P3,

Ex.P4 is the promissory note, Ex.P5 is the office copy of legal

notice issued by the Complainant to the Accused, Ex.P6 and 7

are the postal receipts and Ex.P8 and 9 are the postal

acknowledgments. 13. The documents produced by the complainant of

course established that complainant meets out the procedural

requirements of Section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, but

it is to be considered whether all these documents establish the

offence committed by the accused. 14. The Negotiable Instruments Act raises two

presumptions. One contained in Section 118 and the other in 8 C.C.No.57730/2022 Sec. 139 thereof. For the sake of convenience Sec 118(1) of the N.I. Act is extracted here below: Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made ;-- 1. To (g) . . . . . . . . . . . . Provided that where the instrument has been
 obtained from its lawful owner, or from an person in
 lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence of fraud,
 or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor
 thereof by means of an offence of fraud, or for unlawful
 consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is
 a holder in due course lies upon him". 15. Further Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act

reads as under: Scope and ambit and function of the presumption
 U/s 118(a) and Sec 139 of NI Act came to be considered
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court of Indian in Krishna
 Janardhan Bhat Vs Dattatraya G.Hegde (2008
 AIAR (Criminal 151) The Supreme Court has laid
 down the law in the following phraseology. 16. Further, said decision was followed by Hon'ble High

Court of Karnataka in Kempanarasimhaiah Vs P.Rangaraju

& Others (2008 (5) KCCR 3371). Relevant paragraph of the

said judgment reads as under: - He may discharge his burden on the basis of the
 materials already brought on records (para 23) (iv) Standard of proof on the part of an accused and that of
 the prosecution in a criminal case is different. Further
 more where as prosecution must prove the guilt of an
 accused beyond all reasonable doubt, the standard of
 proof so as to prove a defence on the part of an
 accused is "preponderance of probabilities'" ( para 23
 & 25) (v) Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be
 drawn not only from the materials brought on records
 by the parties but also by reference to the
 circumstances upon which he relies ( para 25) (vi) Other important principles of legal jurisprudence,
 namely presumption of innocence as human rights
 and the doctrine of reverse burden introduced by Section 139 should be deliberately balanced (para 34) 11 C.C.No.57730/2022 17. Thus from the observations extracted above, it is

clear that presumption Under Section 139 of the N.I,.Act is only

to the extent that the cheque was drawn for discharge in full or

in part of any debt or other liability and the said presumption

do not relate to the existence of legally enforceable debt or

liability. Therefore, before drawing the presumption under section 139 of the N.I.Act, it is the duty of the Court to see

whether or not the complainant has discharged his initial

burden as to existence of legally enforceable debt. No doubt, as

per Section 118(a) of the Act, there is a rebuttable presumption

that every negotiable instrument, is accepted, endorsed,

negotiated or transferred was accepted, endorsed, negotiated or

transferred for consideration." 18. Factual matrix of the case is required to be tested on

the anvil of principles emerging from the above-referred

decisions. 19. The defence taken by the Accused is that, the

cheques issued for the security purpose are misused by the

Complainant and filed false complaint against him inspite of

return of loan amount. 20. In order to substantiate his claim, the Complainant

examined himself as PW1 and he deposed that, Accused is well

acquainted with him and approached urgent handloan of

Rs.3,75,000/- for the purpose of development and improvement

of his hotel business. It is further deposed that, as per the

request the Complainant paid Rs.3,75,000/- on 16.2.2022 and

on the same date the Accused acknowledged the same by

executing on demand promissory note and consideration

receipt as per Ex.P4. It is further deposed that, after lapse of

stipulated period for return of loan amount, the Accused has

issued Ex.P1 cheque which was dishonoured with reason

"funds insufficient" as per Ex.P3. It is further deposed that,

thereafter the Complainant got issued legal notice to the

Accused as per Ex.P5 and same was duly served upon the

Accused as per Ex.P8 and 9. It is further deposed that, despite

of receipt of notice, neither Accused pay the cheque amount

nor reply the notice. 21. Considering the oral and documentary evidence

placed by the Complainant, prima facie presumed that, Ex.P1

cheque was issued by the Accused towards legally enforceable

debt and liability. To rebut the presumption the learned 13 C.C.No.57730/2022 counsel for Accused cross-examined the PW1 in full length. In

the cross-examination of PW1, he stated that, he was taking

tuition classes in the name of Rabi Global Academy. He further

stated that the Accused running hotel. He further stated that

all the family members are running the hotel. He further stated

that at the time of lending the amount, Mr. Ledia

Shanthakumar and Haritha were witness to the said loan

amount. He admits that, he is one of the partner of VMV

Finance. He further admits that, the mother of the Accused

also took loan from the finance. He further stated that from

finance he was paid Rs.1 lakh amount to the Accused in the

year 2021. He denied that, at that time he was took 4 cheques

and one promissory note from the Accused. He further admits

that VMV Finance was registered. He further stated that all the

partners were running the finance. He further stated that Ex.P1

cheque and Ex.P5 promissory note filled by the Accused. He

further stated that Ex.P4 was executed by the Accused on

16.2.2022 and cheque was issued on 1.9.2022. He denied that

Ex.P1 and 4 are filled by him. He admit whatsapp chat between

himself and Accused as per Ex.D1. He further stated that as

per Ex.D1 the total amount mentioned is Rs.1,35,850/- which 14 C.C.No.57730/2022 belongs to finance loan. He further admits whatsapp chat as

per Ex.D2 and as per Ex.D2 Accused was sent Rs.40,000/-

and same is for finance loan. He denied that, he was lent

amount from the Accused through finance and falsely stated

that, it is a personal loan. It is further stated that the Accused

has borrowed many loans from VMV Finance. He further stated

that the amount paid by the Accused through PhonePe and

bank transfer were paid to the VMV Finance with respect of

loan taken by the Accused from the VMV Finance. He further

admits that the cheque issued to the VMV Finance was also

dishonoured. 22. To rebut the presumption, the Accused examined

himself as DW1. He deposed that, the Complainant is his

neighbour and in the year 2020 he commencing hotel business

and for that he was in need of money and that purpose he

borrowed Rs.1 lakh loan from VMV Finance and he returned

said loan amount in 8 installments. Thereafter, he borrowed

Rs.1.5 lakhs from the Complainant and same is also repaying

regularly and since he was went to Kerala, therefore, 10 days

delay was caused for depositing the installments, Complainant

quarrel with the mother of the Accused. It is further deposed 15 C.C.No.57730/2022 that, in the month of November 2020 he issued 3 cheques for

the security purpose and another 3 cheques issued for the

purpose of security purpose in the month of September 2021

for the loan of Rs.1.5 lakhs. Thereafter all cheques are

dishonoured. It is further deposed that, the Complainant told

him that, he will withdraw the Complainant if he repaid the

amount. He further deposed that he paid Rs.40,000/- to the

Complainant. He further deposed that remaining balance is

only Rs.5000/-. 23. In the cross-examination he admits that, signature

on the Ex.P1 cheque belongs to him. But he denied signature

on Ex.P4 promissory note. Again he admits that the signatures

on Ex.P8 and Ex.P9 postal acknowledgements. He further

stated that, after receipt of notice from the Complainant with

respect of dishonour of Ex.P1 cheque he was not replied or

issued notice by stating that, Ex.P1 cheque was not issued to

the Complainant in personal and same is issued to the finance

and Complainant misused the cheque. It is further stated that

he was not taken any legal action or lodge any complaint before

the police against the Complainant for misusing of cheque

which issued to the VMV Finance. He further stated that he has 16 C.C.No.57730/2022 not produced any document to show that he was availed loan

from the finance. It is further stated that, he was not lodged

any complaint or taken any legal action against the VMV

Finance for non returning of cheque. He further unable to say

that how many occasions he was availed loan from the finance

and how much amount he was returned. He denied that, Ex.P1

cheque was issued by him for repayment of the loan amount

borrowed from the Complainant. He further denied that, on

16.2.2020 he borrowed an amount of Rs.3,75,000/- from the

Complainant and on the same day he executed Ex.P4 on

demand promissory note. 24. Considering the oral and documentary evidence

placed by both parties, the Ex.P1 cheque belongs to the

Accused and also he admitted his signature on the cheque. He

furthe admits that, he received statutory notice from the

Complainant. The defence of the Accused is that he borrowed

Rs.1.5 lakhs from VMV Finance in the month of September

2021 and issued 3 cheques as a security to the finance. It is

further submits that he never borrowed loan amount from the

Complainant personally and never issued Ex.P1 cheque to the

Complainant. It is further submitted by the learned counsel for 17 C.C.No.57730/2022 Accused that, cheque issued as a security to the VMV Finance

and said finance company is a partnership firm and

Complainant is one of the partner and he collected the cheque

and demand promissory note from the finance misused the

same and filed false complaint against the Accused. It is

further submitted that, Ex.P1 cheque was misappropriated by

the Complainant and misused the same, hence, Ex.P1 cheque

amount is not legally enforceable debt. On the other hand, the

learned counsel for Complainant argued that, Accused

borrowed loan from the Complainant and for return of said loan

amount, the Accused has issued Ex.P1 cheque which was

dishonoured and after receipt of the statutory notice neither

Accused pay the cheque amount nor reply the notice. It is

further submitted that, the Accused failed to rebut the

presumption and also failed to prove that he was issued the

cheque in favour of VMV Finance for the security purpose. It is

further submitted that, at the time of borrowing the loan

amount the Accused has executed on demand promissory note

which is supported the claim of the Complainant. It is

pertaining to note that the Accused has admitted his signature

on the cheque and also admits that, he was borrowed loan from 18 C.C.No.57730/2022 the VMV Finance. Further it is pertaining to note that, the

Accused has not taken any legal action neither against the

Complainant nor against the VMV Finance. As per the

contention the cheques were issued for the security purpose to

the finance in the year 2021. The present Ex.P1 was

dishonoured on 2.9.2022 and legal notice duly served upon

the Accused on 4.10.2022. On all facts are known to the

Accused but, he has not taken any legal action neither against

the Complainant nor against VMV Finance. Therefore, it

presumed that Ex.P1 cheque was issued by the Accused

towards discharge of legally enforceable debt to the

Complainant. Further, the Complainant proved that, he was

lent Rs.3,75,000/- to the Accused for the purpose of developing

and improving the hotel business. For return of that amount,

the Accused has issued Ex.P1 cheque. 25. As discussed above, it has to be presumed that the

cheque in question was issued by the accused to discharge the

legally recoverable debt or liability. The accused can place

rebuttal evidence so as to show that the cheque was not issued

for consideration. As appreciated supra, accused has failed to

put acceptable and satisfactory evidence to probabilise the 19 C.C.No.57730/2022 defence. Therefore, there is no question of saying that the

cheque was not issued for liability. Therefore, complainant has

discharged his initial onus laid on him. When he has

discharged his initial onus, it raises presumption U/s 118(a)

and 139 of Negotiable Instruments Act . Accused has failed to

rebut the presumption either in cross-examining PW1 or in his

defence evidence. 26. So, far as sentence and compensation is concern, an

offence punishable under Section 138 of N.I. Act, is a civil

wrong and compensatory in nature, punitive is secondary,

considering, the above settled principal of law with facts and

circumstances of the case, which clearly reveals that, towards

discharge of loan amount, the cheque in question of issued by

the accused to the complainant. Therefore, considering the

nature of transaction, duration of pendency, litigation

expenses, I am opinion that, if sentence of fine of

Rs.4,42,500/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Forty-two Thousand and

Five Hundred only) is imposed that would meet the ends of

justice, accordingly, the accused is hereby sentenced to pay a

fine of Rs.4,42,500/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Forty-two

Thousand and Five Hundred only out of that, the 20 C.C.No.57730/2022 complainant is entitled for a sum of Rs.4,37,500/- (Rupees

Four Lakhs Thirty-seven Thousand and Five Hundred only)

as a compensation as per Sec.357(1) of Cr.P.C., remaining

amount of Rs.5,000/-, is to be appropriated to the state, in

case of default the accused shall undergo simple imprisonment

for a period of 6 months. Accordingly, the Point No.1 is

answered in Affirmative. 27. POINT No.2: In view of discussion held in Point No.1,

I proceed to pass the following : Bail bond stands cancelled. Supply the free copy of this judgement to the
 Accused forthwith. (Dictated to the stenographer, transcribed by her, corrected by me
and then pronounced in the open court on this 15th October, 2025) Digitally signed by PARVEEN A PARVEEN A
 BANKAPUR (PARVEEN A BANKAPUR)
BANKAPUR Date: 2025.10.17
 12:22:43 +0530 XXXIV ACJM, BENGALURU. ANNEXURE 1. Witnesses examined on behalf of Complainant: P.W.1 Mr. Mathew 2. Documents marked on behalf of complainant: 3. Witnesses examined on behalf of Accused: D.W.1 Mr. Robin R. 4. Documents marked on behalf of Accused: