% 04.04.2024

 I.A. 7551/2024(seeking exemption from pre-litigation mediation) 1. As the present suit contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of the
 judgment of Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi,1 exemption from attempting pre-institution mediation is granted. 2. Disposed of. I.A. 7549/2024(seeking leave to file additional documents) 3. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . 4. Applicant, if it wishes to file additional documents at a later stage,
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the said Act. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:14 5. Disposed of. I.A. 7550/2024(seeking exemption from filing originals, clearer copies,
 certified copies of original, translated copies and left side margins) 6. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 7. Plaintiff shall file legible and clearer copies of exempted documents,
 compliant with practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 8. Disposed of. I.A. 7552/2024(seeking extension of time from filing court fee and one-time
 process) 9. For the grounds and reasons stated therein, the application is allowed.
 Plaintiff is granted two weeks' time to file deficient court fees. 10. Disposed of. CS(COMM) 280/2024 11. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 12. Issue summons. Ms. Mrinal Ojha, Advocate, accepts summons on
 behalf of Defendant No. 2. She confirms the receipt of paper book and
 waives the right of formal service of summons. Written statement be filed
 within thirty days commencing today. 13. Upon filing of process fee, issue summons to Defendant No. 1 by all
 permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written statement shall be
 filed by Defendant No.1 within 30 days from the date of receipt of
 summons. Along with the written statement, Defendants shall also file an
 affidavit of admission/denial of the documents of Plaintiff, without which
 the written statements shall not be taken on record. 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1382. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:14 14. Liberty is given to Plaintiff to file a replication(s) within 15 days of
 the receipt of the written statements. Along with the replication(s), if any,
 filed by Plaintiff, an affidavit of admission/denial of documents of the
 Defendants, be filed by Plaintiff, without which the replication(s) shall not
 be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any
 documents, the same shall be sought and given within the timelines. 15. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 08th July,
 2024. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
 be liable to be burdened with costs. 16. List before Court for framing of issues thereafter.
 I.A. 7548/2024(u/O XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of CPC ) 17. Although there is no application to this effect, at the oral request of
 Mr. Pravin Anand, counsel for Plaintiff, given the nature of the relief sought
 and the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, Plaintiff is exempted
 from effecting advance service on Defendant No.1. 18. Mr. Anand sets the Plaintiff's case in the following manner: Plaintiff is the promoter and principal investment holding company of
 various TATA companies which are engaged in business of a wide-range of CS(COMM) 280/2024 Page 3 of 12 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:15
 products and services including financial services. Furthermore, two-thirds
 of the equity share capital of the Plaintiff is held by philanthropic trusts
 which have created national institutions for science and technology, medical
 research, social studies and the performing arts. These trusts also provide aid
 and assistance to non-government organizations working in the areas of
 education, healthcare and livelihood. 18.3. The collective revenue of the TATA companies in 2022-2023 was
 about $150 billion (INR 12 trillion). The conglomeration of TATA
 Companies ("House of TATA"), was declared to be India's most valuable
 brand by 'Interbrand' in its list of 'Top 40 brands in India.' Plaintiff also has
 a functional website www.tata.com as well. 18.4 The trademark/tradename "TATA" which is derived from surname of
 Plaintiff's founder- Shri Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, possesses
 distinctiveness of an invented word. This trademark has been used
 continuously and consistently since its inception in the year 1917. On
 account of highly distinctive nature, trademark "TATA" has acquired stellar
 reputation from the very beginning and over the decades has acquired
 secondary meaning associating it exclusively to the conglomeration of Tata
 companies i.e., 'House of TATA.' The 'House of TATA' consists of over
 100 companies which use the name/trademark 'TATA' as a key and
 essential part of their corporate name. 18.5. Plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the wordmark "TATA" in class
 36 bearing registration no. 1236891. Plaintiff is also the proprietor of other
 formative versions of the trademark 'TATA' in Classes 36 (financial
 services, financial management etc) and 45 (Personal and social services
 rendered by others to meet the needs of individual), which are the relevant CS(COMM) 280/2024 Page 4 of 12 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:15
 classes for the purposes of the instant suit. It is pertinent to mention here
 about Tata Consultancy Services, which is a subsidiary of the Plaintiff and is
 popularly known as 'TCS'. The said company's wordmark 'TCS' and

 " " has been registered in the Plaintiff's name, bearing registration no.
 447151 and 5311280 and the mark "TCS" has been declared as a well-
 known trademark by the trademark registry. The said company carries on its

 business using the 'TCS' mark in a peculiar font style, i.e., .
 18.6. Plaintiff is aggrieved by infringing activities of Defendant No. 1(M/s.
 Tata Restart'), who is running a ponzi financial/ investment scheme through
 its website www.tatarestart.com and is impersonating the Plaintiff and
 targeting unwary investors/members of the public by promising unrealistic
 returns. Godaddy.com LLC, Defendant No. 2, is the domain name registrar
 of domain name www.tatarestart.com. Identity and contact details of
 Defendant No. 1 have been masked in the WhoIs page in respect of
 registration of www.tatarestart.com. The illegal activities of Defendant No.
 1's website and the domain name can be seen from screenshots which have
 been extracted in the following section of the order. The website
 www.tatarestart.com unauthorisedly uses Plaintiff's registered trademark
 "TATA" for their ponzi investment scheme. Furthermore, the website also

 bears the infringing mark " "giving an
 impression to the general public that the services rendered through the
 website are originating from Plaintiff/ TATA Group.
 18.7. The Plaintiff was alerted about the fraudulent website by one Mr. CS(COMM) 280/2024 Page 5 of 12 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:16
 Sudhir Sethi, who is the founder and Chairman of M/s Chiratae Ventures
 sometime in early 2024. He informed the Plaintiff about the article titled
 "Fraud Alert: Tata Restart, a Ponzi, Collective Investment Scam misusing
 the Tata Name", that was published by an online financial news platform
 called www.moneylife.in. Defendant No.1's website fraudulently claimed
 that Mr. Sudhir Sethi was the founding Chairman and Managing Director of
 TATA Restart investment plan. The said website fraudulently uses
 Plaintiff's trademark and the image of former chairman of the Plaintiff- Mr.
 Ratan Tata to show an association with Plaintiff and its group of companies.
 Owing to Mr. Sethi's intervention, images and names with references to Mr.
 Ratan Tata were taken down. However, the impugned website continues to
 make false claims, which is evident from following screenshots: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:17
 deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's well known and registered mark "TCS".
 The said mark is used by the Plaintiff's subsidiary in with a specialised font- ' .' The said mark ' ' has been used on a virtual certificate titled
 'THE LEADERS AWARD 2023' on the fraudulent and infringing website
 at www.tatarestart.com. This has been intentionally done to lure unwary
 customers to invest in their ponzi investment scheme. A screenshot of the
 said virtual certificate titled 'THE LEADERS AWARD 2023' is extracted
 herein below: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:17 19. The Court, in view of the above submissions and the documents
 placed on record is satisfied that a prima facie case has been established
 demonstrating blatant infringement of Plaintiff's trademark "TATA". Such
 use of Plaintiff's trademark on the website, as depicted in photographs
 above, is bound to cause consumer confusion and association with Plaintiff
 as Defendant No.1 has wholly incorporated the Plaintiff's registered mark
 "TATA" in its website domain www.tatarestart.com, and marks "TATA

 RESTART" and " " ("Impugned marks"). Defendant
 No.1's website domain name and Impugned marks are deceptively similar to
 the Plaintiff's registered mark "TATA" and website www.tata.com making
 the Defendant No.1's adoption of its domain name and Impugned marks ex-
 facie dishonest. Mr. Anand has thus been able to demonstrate that acts of
 Defendant No.1 amount to trademark infringement and passing off. 20. In view of the above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has made out a
 prima facie case in its favour and in case no ex-parte ad-interim injunction
 is granted Plaintiff will suffer an irreparable loss; balance of convenience
 also lies in favour of the Plaintiff and against Defendant No.1.
 Directions 21. Till the next date of hearing, Defendant No.1 or anyone acting on
 their behalf, are restrained from directly or indirectly using the marks

 "TATA" or "TATA RESTART" or the mark " " or
 any other mark deceptively similar to Plaintiff's registered marks, CS(COMM) 280/2024 Page 11 of 12 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:18
 amounting to infringement and passing off. 22. Defendant No.1 is directed to immediately take down the website
 parked on the domain www.tatarestart.com; 23. Defendant No.2, the domain name registrar, is directed to block/
 suspend domain name 'www.tatarestart.com'. 24. Issue notice. Ms. Mrinal Ojha, counsel for Defendant No. 2, accepts
 notice. 25. Defendant No. 2 is directed to file KYC details of registrant in a
 sealed cover before this Court. 26. Upon filing of process fee, issue notice to Defendant No. 1, by all
 permissible modes, returnable on the next date of hearing. 27. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of CPC be done with one week
 from today. 28. List before the Court on 9th September, 2024. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 APRIL 4, 2024
 d.negi CS(COMM) 280/2024 Page 12 of 12 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 08/04/2024 at 22:23:18