What cannot possibly be disputed that all the States, including the

State of Punjab, are presumed to be the welfare States, by the people, of the people

and for the people, in the regime and democratic set up, as enshrined in the

Constitution of India. Article 154 postulates that the executive power of the State

shall be vested in the Governor and shall be exercised by him either directly or

through officers subordinate to him in accordance with this Constitution. Article

162 further posits that the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -8-

with respect to which the Legislature of the State has the power to make laws. 2. Perhaps, in exercise of these powers, conferred by the Constitution,

the Governor of Punjab was pleased to formulate the new Industrial Policies from

time to time, inter-alia, in order to, strengthen the economy, attract fresh

investment, further boost the growth of industry, increase annual present industrial

growth rate from 8% to 12% in the next two years, to increase the present share of

industry in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 17% to 25% in the next five years

and to divert 15% of the present rural population to manufacturing & related

occupations through rapid industrialization in the State of Punjab. 3. Not only that, the object of the publication of Industrial Policies was

also to diminish the stress of agricultural sector, which predominates the State of

Punjab being predominantly an agricultural State, occupying once a pride place in

India. Subsequently, the agriculture sector witnessed the heavy losses, debt and

stress on the farmers. So, with an eye to meet the hopes of the people and to

engage them in a variety of larger, medium and small scale industrial units, based

on agricultural produce to generate the required GDP, the State notified the

different Industrial Policies, promising to grant various incentives, concessions,

subsidies, interest, tax exemptions and other benefits indicated therein, such as:- above and for new units in the small scale sector and for large and medium
 units in 'A' category incentive areas. d) With a view to encourage the rehabilitation of sick industrial units
 purchased by entrepreneurs from the Punjab Financial Corporation or
 other Corporations or agencies of the Central or State Government, the
 same shall be treated as new units for the purpose of incentives provided
 they are located in the areas eligible for incentives. Following incentives
 shall be provided to such units:- Likewise, some other concessions were also announced as described therein

in the Industrial Policies of 1996 and 2003. In order to implement these Policies,

the State of Punjab framed the relevant rules in this respect. 4. The petitioner-Industries claimed that believing the promises of the

State Government, flowing from the Industrial Policies and relevant rules, to be

true, they set up their respective industrial units by spending huge amounts and

started production as per the terms and conditions of the policies. The State of

Punjab did not fulfill its promises and failed to make the payment, in lieu of

various kinds of concessions, interest & tax exemptions, incentives, subsidies and

other benefits on untenable grounds, leaving them in lurch. 5. The petitioner-Industries did not feel satisfied with the action of the

respondents and preferred the present writ petitions, invoking the provisions of Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. 6. As identical questions of law and facts are involved and collectively

argued by the counsel for the parties, therefore, I propose to dispose of the instant
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -10-

writ petitions, by virtue of this common judgment, in order to avoid

the repetition. However, the facts, which require to be noticed for the limited

purpose of deciding the core controversy, involved in these matters, have been

extracted from (1) CWP No. 19007 of 2002 titled as "M/s Balak Gases

Oxygen Gas Plant & another vs. State of Punjab and others " in this context.

Be that as it may, the facts of individual cases would also be separately noticed and

discussed at the appropriate place and stage in the subsequent part of this

judgment. 7. The matrix of the facts, culminating in the commencement, relevant

for disposal of the present writ petitions and emanating from the record, is that in

order to achieve the indicated aims & objects and to strengthen the economy, the

Governor of Punjab was pleased to formulate the new Industrial Policies of 1996

and 2003, which were published by the government, by way of notifications dated

20.3.1996 and 26.3.2003 (Annexure P1 annexed with CWP No.19007 of 2002 &

CWP No.4917 of 2007). In order to implement these policies, the Government of

Punjab further notified the Industrial Policy and Incentives Code/Rules (for brevity

"relevant Rules") under the Industrial Policies of 1996 and 2003, published, by

means of notifications dated 1.6.1996 and 2.4.2003 (Annexure P2 attached with

the indicated writ petitions). It is not a matter of dispute that such notifications

have the force of law as envisaged under Article 13(3) read with Articles 154 and 162 of the Constitution of India. As per the Industrial Policies and relevant Rules,

the industries were classified in variety of categories and different area of

operation. The relevant rules of 1996 and 2003 came into force w.e.f. 1.4.1996 &

1.4.2003 respectively and were made applicable to such units, which came into

production for the first time on or after or undertake expansion/modernization after

1.4.1996 and 1.4.2003. The area of operation of industry was classified in two

categories 'A' and 'B' in this respect. 8. As is clear that Rule 5 escalates the eligibility of incentives category- CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -11-

wise to larger, medium and small scale industrial units, such as for rehabilitation of

sick units, modernization and technology up-gradation, internet subsidy,

investment incentives, incentives for projects of special significance, incentives for

projects of non-conventional energy sources, incentives for Agro-based industry,

incentives for electronic industry, export oriented units, village industries units.

The incentives to fly ash based units were prescribed in Rules 6 to 15 respectively.

Similarly, the industry was also classified in the categories of large scale, medium

scale and small scale industries. The different incentives were announced for

project of non-commercial agro-based unit, village industry unit, tourism industry,

electronic unit, export oriented unit, project of special significance, incentives to

fly ash based units and incentives for rehabilitation of sick industry units including

the exemption from taxes and interest so on and so forth. 9. According to the petitioner-Industries that in the same sequence, the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 and Standards of Weights & Measures (Enforcement)

Act, 1985 , Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and Rules, 1956, implementation of

Environmental Laws were promised to be amended to improve and to match the

industrial atmosphere. Self Certification scheme under Labour Laws and

mechanism of forming the Monitoring Committees were also introduced.

Similarly, for the development of border area, the State Government assures to

provide capital subsidy to Small Scale Industrial Units to the extent of 30% of the

Fixed Capital Investment upto maximum of ` 30 lac per unit. 10. The case set up by the petitioner-Industries, in brief in so far as

relevant, was that deeply believing the promises of the State to be true and sincere

and in pursuance of the indicated Industrial Policies (Annexure P1), coupled with

the relevant rules (Annexure P2), announced by the Government of Punjab, they

set up their industrial units, strictly in consonance with the Industrial Policies,

having spent huge amounts for establishing the industry of undertaking

modernization and up-gradation. The State of Punjab did not fulfill and has back
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -12-

tracked from the promise to give the pointed concessions/incentives on one reason

or the other and did not release the amounts of benefits despite

letter/representations (Annexures P5 to P8). 11. Aggrieved by the action of the respondents, the petitioner-Industry

(at serial No.1) filed CWP No.16236 of 2002 titled as "M/s Balak Gases Oxygen

Gas Plant Vs. State of Punjab and others ", which was dismissed by a Division

Bench of this Court, by means of order dated 28.10.2002 (Annexure P9) on the

ground that its name figured at Serial No.383 of the seniority list prepared by the

State and amount will be paid as per seniority in this regard. 12. Levelling a variety of allegations and narrating the sequence of their

respective events, in all, according to the petitioner-Industries that although they

were eligible to claim the concessions and incentives in view of the Industrial

Policies and relevant Rules made thereunder, but the State Govt. did not release

the amounts of subsidies and concessions to them in the garb of impugned orders,

without any legal ground. The plea of discrimination has also been pressed into

service by the petitioner-Industries. On the basis of aforesaid allegations, the

petitioners claimed the depicted concessions/incentives and benefits and sought the

quashment of impugned orders in the manner described hereinabove. 13. Likewise, the remaining petitioner-Industries have also filed the writ

petitions almost on the basis of the same grounds and similar pleadings and

challenged the orders impugned therein in this context. 14. Faced with the situation, the respondents have contested the claim of

the petitioner-Industries. The contesting respondent Nos.1 and 2 filed their joint

written statement, inter-alia admitting the issuance/publication of the aforesaid

policies and relevant rules and that the petitioner-Industries are duly registered as

larger, medium and small scale industries with the Industry Department of Punjab

State. The factum of sanction of subsidy/incentives in pursuance of the indicated

policy/rules was also acknowledged. However, it was further pleaded in para 28 as
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -13-

under:- 15. Sequelly, the State Government was stated to have constituted the

committees to formulate the modalities and issued certain guidelines based on the

recommendations dated 28.8.2006 and 20.2.2009 of these committees. The

impugned orders were stated to have been legally and validly passed in exercise of

administrative/executive powers of the State Government. It will not be out of

place to mention here that the contesting respondents have stoutly denied all other

allegations contained in the writ petitions and prayed for their dismissal. 16. Controverting the allegations contained in the written statements

reiterating the pleadings of the writ petitions, some of the petitioner-units filed

their replications. That is how I am seized of the matter. 17. At the very outset, the counsel for the petitioner-Industries,

contended with some amount of vehemence that the State of Punjab, in exercise of
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -14-

its executive powers, issued the Industrial Policies in question and framed the

relevant rules in pursuance thereof to implement the same and promised various

kinds of incentives, subsidies, tax and interest exemptions and other benefits

mentioned therein. Having deep faith in the promise of the Government, the

petitioner-Industries have set up their industrial units, by spending huge amounts,

strictly in consonance with the Industrial Policies and relevant rules, but it (State

Government) has miserably failed to fulfill its promise. The argument is that

although the State has sanctioned the amount of subsidy, incentives and other

benefits to all the industrial units and discriminately paid the same to some of its

favourite units, but the payment was illegally denied to the petitioner-Industries,

for the reasons best known to the respondents. They unilaterally changed the terms

and conditions of the incentives already adversely affecting them, without any

legal authority. The argument further proceeds that once the State has notified the

Industrial Policies and the relevant rules and granted the various concessions,

incentives and other benefits depicted therein and having spent huge amounts, the

petitioner-Industries have set up their industrial units, then the State is estopped

from denying the payment of the indicated benefits to them on the doctrine of

promissory estoppel. In support of their contentions, they have placed reliance on

the judgments of Hon'ble Apex Court in cases U.P.Power Corporation Ltd. and

Anr. v. Sant Steel and Alloys P.Ltd . 2008(2) SCC 777 = 2008 AIR (SC) 693 and

Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Asst. ), Dharwar and others v.

Dharmendra Trading Co.etc.etc . AIR 1988 Supreme Court 1247. 18. On the contrary, the State counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondents has acknowledged the existence of the Industrial Policies in question

(Annexure P1) and the relevant rules framed thereunder (Annexure P2). He has

also fairly conceded that the Government has already paid or is going to release the

amount of subsidies to the different categories of Industries as per the Policy dated

8.9.2009, formulated on the basis of the recommendations of the Committees
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -15-

constituted by the State. However, the State counsel further took pain to argue that

the petitioner-Industries have no legitimate right, which can legally be enforced

and Government has the power to amend the policies and to issue guidelines to

restrict the claim of the industrial units in this behalf. He has also placed reliance

on the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case M/s Motilal Padampat Sugar

Mills Co.Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others (1979) 2 S.C.C. 409 in this

respect. 19. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties at quite length,

having gone through the records and legal provisions with their valuable assistance

and after bestowal of thoughts over the entire matter, to my mind, the instant writ

petitions deserve to be accepted in this context. 20. As indicated hereinbefore, the State Government announced the

Industrial Policies and published, by way of notifications dated 20.3.1996 and

26.3.2003 (Annexure P1). In order to implement the Industrial Policies, the State

framed the relevant rules (Annexure P2). It is not a matter of dispute that the

Government has sanctioned the amount of subsidies and incentives, but the same

was not released to the petitioner-Industries on variety of grounds of closure of the

units and non-availability of the funds etc., by virtue of various orders impugned

therein. Similarly, the State of Punjab did not pay the amount of incentives and

other benefits to M/s A.S.Forgings (Registered) on the same indicated grounds. It

filed CWP No.1801 of 1998, which came to be disposed of by a Division Bench of

this Court, vide judgment dated 25.11.1998 (Annexure P3 in CWP No.4917 of

2007), the operative part of which is as under:- 21. Not only that, aggrieved by the same very impugned action of the

State, The Mohali Industries Association and others filed another CWP No.1436 of

2005 to issue directions to release the amount of subsidies and for quashing the

impugned sanctioned letters only to the extent that a condition has been

incorporated that the disbursement would be made subject to the availability of the

funds. It was decided alongwith CWP No.8719 of 2002 and bunch of other

petitions, which again was disposed of by a Division Bench of this Court, by virtue

of order dated 11.5.2006 (Annexure P5 attached with CWP No.4917 of 2007),

which, in substance, is as under:- At the outset, Mr.M.C.Berry, Learned Senior Deputy Advocate
 General, Punjab informs the Court that the Bond Scheme has not been
 notified so far and therefore, in consonance with the decision taken by the
 Council of Ministers, the State Government shall release an amount of
 Rs.50 Crores within a period of 2 months from today and from the year
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -17-

 2006-2007 onwards, an amount of Rs.100 Crores would be released per
 year and would be disbursed strictly in accordance with the Seniority List
 already placed on the record of the case and available on the Website of the
 Department of Industries. The aforesaid Statement of Mr.Berry fully satisfies Learned counsel
 appearing for the petitioners. In view of the aforesaid fact, present petitions
 are disposed of accordingly. The State Government shall abide by the decision of the Council of
 Ministers dated January 30,2006 as notified above and as so stated by
 Mr.M.C.Berry today, in the Court." 22. Thus, it would be seen that the State of Punjab has repeatedly

admitted its liability to pay the amount of subsidies/incentives to the Industrial

Units and sanctioned the amount, but it did not release the same on untenable

grounds of closure of units and non-availability of funds etc. without any legal

basis in this relevant connection. 23. Ex facie, the argument of counsel for the respondents that in the

wake of recommendations of the committees, the State Government has issued the

guidelines dated 8.9.2009 to make the payment in public interest, so, the doctrine

of promissory estoppel is not applicable in the present case, is neither tenable nor

the observations of Hon'ble Apex Court in M/s Motilal Padampat's case (supra),

are at all attracted to the facts of the present case, wherein it was observed that

"when the Government is able to show that in view of the facts as have transpired

since the making of the promise, public interest would be prejudiced if the

Government were required to carry out the promise, the Court would have to

balance the public interest in the Government carrying out a promise made to a

citizen which has induced the citizen to act upon it and after his position and the

public interest likely to suffer if the promise were required to be carried out by the

Government and determine which way the equity lies." 24. Possibly, no one can dispute with regard to the aforesaid

observations, but, to me, the same would not come to the rescue of the
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -18-

respondents-State in the instant controversy, as at the same time and in the same

judgment, it was also ruled (in M/s Motilal Padampat's case (supra)) in para 24 as

under:- 25. Hardly, there is any quarrel that it is the sheer grit and entrepreneurial

spirit of Punjabi industrialists that they are surviving in Punjab despite every kind

of odds and neighbouring States are taking away a major chunk of industries by

attractive fiscal policies and incentives. To my mind, instead of taking immediate

steps to save the industry in the State, which is fast falling prey to other States,

having better atmosphere and facilities, the State of Punjab is still denying the

benefits already announced, promised and accrued, leaving the petitioner-

Industries in lurch in this direction. 26. In the instant cases, as the State has miserably failed to point out and

no material, much less cogent, is forth coming on record, even to suggest remotely

that how, when, at what stage and in what manner, the public interest is going to

be served by denying the legitimate rights of the petitioner-Industries, accruing to

them in pursuance of the indicated Industrial Policies/relevant rules published by

the Government itself. On the contrary, to me, if the amount of incentives and

subsidies is not paid to the petitioner-Industries, then, the industrial growth, which

is already in doldrums, would further be jeopardized, causing huge loss to the State

exchequer directly adversely affecting the larger public interest as well. 27. The matter did not rest there. As indicated earlier, the State has

already admitted its liability during the course of hearing of the above mentioned

writ petitions and have sanctioned and paid the subsidy amount to other industrial

entrepreneurs. The petitioner-Industries have also pressed into service the plea of
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -20-

discrimination. In that eventuality, it cannot possibly be saith and State is estopped

from denying the legitimate right of petitioner-Industries as well, in view of the

analogy of law hidden under section 115 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which

envisages that when one person has, by his declaration, act or omission,

intentionally caused or permitted another person to believe a thing to be true and to

act upon such belief, neither he nor his representative shall be allowed, in any suit

or proceeding between himself and such person or his representative, to deny the

truth of that thing. Above-all, the petitioner-Industries are also legally entitled to

the same treatment on the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution of

India. 28. This is not the end of the matter. The question of applicability of

promissory estoppel was considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case Union

of India and others v. Anglo-Afghan Agencies etc. AIR 1968 SC 718 and it was

held that "we are unable to accede to the contention that the executive necessity

releases the Government from honouring its solemn promises relying on which

citizens have acted to their detriment. Under our constitutional setup no person

may be deprived of his right or liberty except in due course of and by authority of

law : if a member of the executive seeks to deprive a citizen of his right or liberty

otherwise than in exercise of power derived from the law - common or statute, the

Courts will be competent to and indeed will be bound to, protect the rights of the

aggrieved citizen." 29. Not only that, having considered the various judgments, including

the judgment of M/s Motilal Padampat's case (supra) (relied on behalf of the

respondents) on the point of promissory estoppel, in a recent judgment of U.P.Power Corporation Ltd. 's case (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed

(para 20) as follows :- 30. Meaning thereby, the doctrine of promissory estoppel is also

applicable to the State and its instrumentality/officers. The Rule of estoppel is a

principle of law by which a person is held bound by the representation, made by

him or arising out of his conduct. If, a person made a statement intending that

some other person should act upon it, he will be estopped and will be prevented,

from denying the truth of his statement once the other person has altered his

position on the basis of the statement. Where any person by his words or conduct

willfully causes another to believe in the existence of a certain state of things, rule

of estoppel precludes a person from denying the truth of the statements previously

made by him. In order to hold a person bound by estoppel, there should be a

representation that a certain state of thing is true and secondly, the person to whom

such a representation is made, should have acted on the belief of it. 31. Above being the legal position and material on records, now the

short and significant questions, thought important that arises for determination in

these cases, are (i) as to whether the principle of promissory estoppel is applicable

in the instant case and (ii) whether the State has the power to unilaterally alter the

eligibility clause, by means of administrative guidelines, to deny the benefits

already accrued to the petitioner-Industries emanating from the Industrial
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -22-

Policies/relevant rules (Annexures P1 and P2) on the grounds of closure of units

and non-availability of funds etc. or not? 32. Having regard to the rival contentions of counsel for the parties, to

me, the answer to first question must obviously be in the affirmative and answer to

second question is in the negative. The respondents are legally bound to release the

amount of subsidies, incentives and other benefits to the eligible petitioner-

Industries, as per the Industrial Policies and relevant rules framed thereunder

(Annexures P1 and P2) in this behalf. 33. As is evident from the record that the Governor of Punjab was

pleased to formulate the new Industrial Policies of 1996 and 2003, which were

published by the Government, by virtue of notifications dated 20.3.1996 and

26.3.2003 (Annexure P1 annexed with CWP No.19007 of 2002 & CWP No.4917

of 2007). In order to implement these policies, the Government of Punjab further

notified the Industrial Policy and Incentives Code/relevant Rules under the

Industrial Policy of 1996 published, by way of notifications dated 1.6.1996 and

2.4.2003 (Annexure P2 attached with the indicated writ petitions), presumably in

exercise of their respective powers under Articles 154 and 162. Such notifications

have the force of law as contained under Article 13(3) of the Constitution. 34. In this regard, the petitioner-Industries (in CWP No.19007 of 2002)

have specifically pleaded that they got prepared a project report taking into

consideration various aspects, such as availability of land, production of gas and its

possible uses, market potential, future scope of the industry and production targets.

They worked out the production detail and process of manufacturing. The project

report involving the investment of more than ` 106 crores was prepared, which

was accepted by the respondents. Thereafter, they approached the Union Bank of

India for a term loan, which was sanctioned for a sum of ` 57 lacs, vide letter

(Annexure P4). Then, considering its case, sanction of ` 18,48,800/- as subsidy

was granted to them, by means of letter (Annexure P3). CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -23- 35. Likewise, the petitioner-Industries (in CWP No.4917 of 2007) have

reiterated that in pursuance of the promises and policies of the respondents, they

invested the huge amount for their projects in border area of Amritsar, after

obtaining a term loan of ` 24 lacs and cash credit of ` 24 lacs by pledging a

residential house of their proprietor. The said loan was taken at the exorbitant rate

of 1% higher than the primary rates, vide agreement (Annexure P7). Having

arranged the amount and taken the loan, petitioner No.1 set up an Embroidery Unit

at Head Water Works Road, Ram Talai, Amritsar by further investing about ` 45

lacs. The machinery was imported from China. Since the amount of

subsidy/exemption in tax was not provided, so, petitioner No.1 was compelled to

pay the instalments with higher amount of interest and it has repaid almost

equivalent to subsidy, which is to be finally released to it. 36. Instead of reproducing the details of project reports, arrangement of

loans and capital investments for establishment of the Industrial units and in order

to avoid the repetition, suffice it to say that all other petitioner-Industries, have

also categorically claimed that after completing all the required formalities and

spending the huge amount, they have established their respective industrial units

believing the promises of the State to be true, strictly in consonance with the

Industrial Policies and relevant rules framed thereunder. The pleadings to that

effect have not been specifically denied by the respondents at any stage, rather they

have acknowledged the factual matrix of spending of huge amounts and

arrangement of loans etc. for establishing their respective industrial units. It is not

the case of the respondents that any of the petitioner-Industries, has committed any

fraud in this relevant connection. On the contrary, they (respondents) have

repeatedly admitted their liability to make the payment of amount in lieu of

subsidies, incentives and all other benefits, in pursuance of the aforementioned

Industrial Policies and relevant rules. 37. Sequelly, in case Bhim Singh v. State of Haryana AIR 1980 SC 768,
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -24-

the State held out certain specific promises as an inducement for the appellants to

move into a new Department. Subsequently, State wanted to back out from its

promises. It was observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the appellants, having

believed the representation made by the State and having further acted thereon,

cannot now be defeated of their hopes, which have crystalized into rights, thanks

to the application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Thereafter, it was not

open to the State to backtrack and it was directed to implement the promises and

confer such rights and benefits as were promised thereunder in entirety. 38. Similarly, in case Hardwari Lal, Rohtak v. G.D.Tapase, Chandigarh

and others AIR 1982 Punjab and Haryana 439 (FB), the petitioner was

appointed as Vice-Chancellor of the Maharshi Dayanand University for a period of

three years with a further promise to the appointee that on the expiry of term of

office of three years, his term will be renewed. After the expiry of period of three

years, further term was not extended/renewed by the Chancellor. The petitioner

challenged the action of the respondents on the basis of doctrine of promissory

estoppel based under section 115 of the Evidence Act. Having considered the

relevant provisions of law, it was authoritatively ruled by a Full Bench of this

Court that the respondents were duty bound to fulfill and cannot backtrack the

promises and a direction was issued to the Chancellor of the University to issue

notification renewing the term of the petitioner as Vice-Chancellor. 39. In the present cases, the offer of subsidy is a manner of providing

incentives for such investment and an entrepreneur that assumes a business risk in

investment, is entitled to believe that the scheme is not an empty promise but

rooted on a sound government policy and is squarely covered under the regime of

promissory estoppel of the industrial units. The State could not legally be

permitted to completely defeat the rights of petitioner-Industries by constant re-

appraisal of the scheme retrospectively, that too by issuing administrative

instructions of any kind and by its officers by passing the impugned orders. Even
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -25-

in case of those industries, which after several years of operation has perforce to

close its business by the only reason that assured subsidy did not reach him or any

other valid ground beyond their control. A businessman, who makes investment

and obtains loans from the market or financial institution for establishment of the

industry, is at least entitled to assume that a portion of debt could be redressed

from the amount of subsidy/incentive and benefits as promised by the State

emanating from the Industrial Policies and relevant rules framed thereunder. 40. Now adverting to the next celebrated contention of the State counsel

that since the respondents have issued administrative instructions/guidelines,

altering the original Industrial Policies (Annexure P1) and the relevant rules

framed thereunder, so, the petitioner-Industries, as such, are not entitled to the

subsidies/incentives contrary to the guidelines, is not only devoid of merit but

misplaced as well. Once the Governor has issued the notifications publishing the

Industrial Policies (Annexure P1) in Government Gazette and State Govt. notified

the relevant rules (Annexure P2) to implement the indicated Policies, then, to my

mind, the administrative/executive instructions/guidelines cannot legally be

issued, unilaterally to alter the eligibility criteria and imposing such restrictions on

the payment of amount of incentives detrimental to already accrued valuable rights

of the petitioner-Industries, that too, without issuing any notice and providing

adequate opportunity of hearing to them. Such substantive rights of the petitioner-

Industries cannot be taken away by issuing the executive instructions/guidelines,

which have no sanctity of law and did not contain any legal force. It cannot

possibly be denied that only the State Government (not its officers) has the power

to amend the rules in a legal manner that too prospectively and even State cannot

take away any such rights already accrued to a party by way of subsequent

amendment. In the present cases, as the impugned guidelines are based on

recommendations of the officers' committees, therefore, the administrative

instructions/guidelines will not in any way override the effect and operation of
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -26-

Industrial Policies and relevant rules framed thereunder in this regard by the State. 41. Moreover, the respondents cannot be permitted to keep on changing

the eligibility criteria for the benefit emitting from the scheme, which was

primarily intended to promote the industrial growth in the specified category of

area and industry in general and production and employment in border area in

particular. As indicated earlier, the entitlement of petitioner-Industries to claim the

incentives and subsidies under the scheme has not been denied and was

sanctioned, but the respondents did not release the amount for one or the other

untenable grounds in the garb of impugned orders, which are entirely beyond the

scope and jurisdiction of the original Industrial Policies and relevant rules framed

thereunder. In the same manner, a welfare State cannot possibly be heard to say

that the amount was not released on account of paucity of funds with it. 42. In this manner, to my mind, any subsequent administrative

instructions/guidelines issued by the State or any orders passed by its officers,

impugned in the present writ petitions, which have no sanctity of law and legal

force, are illegal, contrary to the Industrial Policies and indicated relevant rules,

without jurisdiction and in operative on the rights of the petitioner-Industries. The

State cannot deny the release of the amount of incentive/subsidies to them

(petitioner-Industries) in this relevant connection. 43. Therefore, there cannot be any gainsaying that the petitioner-

Industries did act on the assurance of the State. If the crux of the pleadings,

materials placed on the records and admission of the respondents, as discussed

hereinabove, is put together and the case is construed in its totality, then the only

possible conclusion, that can be drawn, is that the petitioner-Industries were given

an assurance by the respondents-State and they actually acted in pursuance of the

assurance in this behalf. That by itself would be sufficient to attract the doctrine of

promissory estoppel. 44. In this view of the matter, it is held that the State and its
 CWP No.19007 of 2002 alongwith connected petitions -27-

instrumentality/officers are legally duty bound to fulfill their promises and are

liable to release the indicated benefits to the petitioner-Industries on the principle

of promissory estoppel, which is deeply applicable to the facts and in the special

circumstances of the present cases. Therefore, the contrary arguments of State

counsel "stricto sensu" deserve to be and are hereby repelled under the present set

of circumstances as the law laid down in the aforesaid judgment "mutatis

mutandis" is applicable to the present controversy and is the complete answer to

the problem in hand in this context. 45. No other legal point, worth consideration, has either been urged or

pressed by the counsel for the parties. 46. In the light of aforesaid reasons, all the writ petitions are accepted.

Consequently, the impugned guidelines and the impugned orders, in all the cases,

having the effect of denying the incentives/subsidies and other benefits to

petitioner-Industries, emanating from the Industrial Policies and relevant rules

framed thereunder, are hereby set aside in the obtaining circumstances of the case.

The respondents are directed to release the amount of incentive/subsidies and other

benefits, to the petitioner-Industries, (if they are otherwise eligible and entitled to

it), within a period of six months from the date of receipt of certified copy of this

judgment, failing which, thereafter six months, they (petitioner-Industries) would

also be entitled to interest at the rate of 6% per annum on the accrued benefits till

the realization of the amount in this context. (Mehinder Singh Sullar)
20.5.2011 Judge
AS

 Whether to be referred to reporter?Yes/No