% 11.08.2025 1. By the present bail application, the applicant seeks pre-
 arrest bail in FIR No. 50/2025 dated 19.06.2025, registered at
 Police Station Cyber Police Station Shahdara, for offences under
 Sections 318(4)/61(2) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. 2. The FIR was registered pursuant to a complaint made by
 the complainant, namely, Pratham Sauskar, who alleged that the
 accused persons had induced him to pay certain amount on the
 false pretext of securing a job. It is alleged that the complainant
 had applied for a job through 'Job Hai' app and he had come into
 contact with one HR Kamal through the said app. Allegedly, the
 said person had called the complainant for an interview at a given
 address. Thereafter, the complainant was contacted for document
 verification and he was made to pay small amounts under
 different pretexts. When the individuals demanded more money,
 the complainant realised that he was being scammed. 3. During investigation, it was found that the premises where
 the complainant was interviewed had been rented by the
 applicant and her husband, and the rent agreement was in the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/08/2025 at 22:09:18
 name of the applicant. 4. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the co-
 accused person, in whose name the money was transferred, has
 not been arrested by the Police and the said co-accused has only
 been bound down for the purpose of further investigation. 5. He submits that one of the mobile phones used for the
 purpose of committing the alleged crime was found to be
 registered in the name of co-accused Rahul, who is the husband
 of the applicant. He submits that co-accused Rahul has already
 been admitted on bail. 6. He submits that co-accused Rahul had sought to shift
 blame by stating that the mobile phone used in the commission of
 the offence was being used by the applicant. 7. He submits that the applicant is not the beneficiary of the
 offence and she was merely an employee of the Treasure Find
 Solution Company. He submits that the documents given by the
 applicant at the time of joining the job had been misused to
 prepare the rent agreement. 8. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State has pointed out that four more complaints have been
 received in the NCRP portal in regard to the online frauds against
 the applicant. She submits that the preliminary verification
 indicates that the accounts used for transfer of the money belong
 to the son of the applicant and the mobile phone used for the
 purpose of committing the crime was also held by the applicant.
 She submits that the applicant was not an employee of the
 alleged placement agency but responsible for running the same. 9. She vehemently opposes the grant of any relief to the
 applicant on account of the nature and gravity of the offence. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/08/2025 at 22:09:18 10. I have heard the counsel and perused the record. 11. The considerations governing the grant of pre-arrest bail are
 materially different than those to be considered while adjudicating
 application for grant of regular bail, as in the latter case, the accused is
 already under arrest and substantial investigation has been carried out
 by the investigating agency. 12. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail is
 extraordinary in nature and is to be exercised sparingly. Thus, pre-arrest
 bail cannot be granted in a routine manner. The Hon'ble Apex Court,
 adverting to its previous precedents, has discussed the parameters to be
 considered while considering pre-arrest bail applications, in the case of State of A.P. v. Bimal Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, has held as
 under: 9. Similar observations have been made by us in a recent
 judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7 SCC 187 : 1997
 SCC (Cri) 1039 : JT (1997) 7 SC 651] : (SCC pp. 189-90,
 para 8)
 "The consideration which should weigh with the
 Court while dealing with a request for anticipatory
 bail need not be the same as for an application to
 release on bail after arrest." xxx 12. We are strongly of the opinion that this is not a case for
 exercising the discretion under Section 438 in favour of
 granting anticipatory bail to the respondents. It is disquieting
 that implications of arming the respondents, when they are
 pitted against this sort of allegations involving well-
 orchestrated conspiracy, with a pre-arrest bail order, though
 subject to some conditions, have not been taken into account

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/08/2025 at 22:09:18
 by the learned Single Judge. We have absolutely no doubt
 that if the respondents are equipped with such an order
 before they are interrogated by the police it would greatly
 harm the investigation and would impede the prospects of
 unearthing all the ramifications involved in the conspiracy.
 Public interest also would suffer as a consequence. Having
 apprised himself of the nature and seriousness of the
 criminal conspiracy and the adverse impact of it on "the
 career of millions of students", learned Single Judge should
 not have persuaded himself to exercise the discretion which
 Parliament had very thoughtfully conferred on the Sessions
 Judges and the High Courts through Section 438 of the Code,
 by favouring the respondents with such a pre-arrest bail
 order." 13. It is argued on behalf of the applicant that the premises
 where the complainant was called for the purpose of fraudulent
 interview was taken on rent by the alleged placement agency
 which was operating the premises in her name, however, she was
 only an employee of the said agency. 14. The statement of the landlord was recorded by the
 Investigating Agency, who stated that the premises in question
 were in fact taken on rent by the applicant. Prima facie, at this
 stage, the contention raised by the applicant seems to be without
 any basis. 15. Considering the material on record, it cannot be held at this
 stage that the investigation is being carried out with the intention
 to injure or humiliate the applicant. 16. On a number of occasions, this court has observed the
 proliferation of cyber frauds, wherein the accused exploit the
 vulnerability of gullible individuals by enticing them on false
 pretexts and dupe them out of their hard earned money. In the
 present case as well, the complainant was cheated on the pretext
 of helping him secure a job. It is pointed out that apart from the
 present FIR, the applicant has been tagged in four other

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/08/2025 at 22:09:18
 complaints of similar nature, however, considering the propensity
 of the offence, the actual number of victims may be much higher. 17. It is to be kept in mind that the investigation is currently at
 a nascent stage. Looking at the nature of the offence, the task of
 the investigating agency is arduous. In such a scenario, in the
 opinion of this Court, some play in the joints has to be provided
 to the State. Granting anticipatory bail to the applicant would
 undoubtedly impede further investigation. An order of bail
 cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to allow the applicant
 to use the same as a shield. 18. In view of the aforesaid discussion, even though the
 amount involved is not huge, however, considering the manner in
 which the offence has been committed and the applicant's
 involvement in other offences of similar nature, in the opinion of
 this Court, the applicant is not entitled for grant of pre-arrest bail. 19. The present bail application is, therefore, dismissed.
 Pending application(s) also stand disposed of. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 AUGUST 11, 2025 / 'KDK'

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 14/08/2025 at 22:09:18