CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 3562 &
3563 of 1986 etc.
 From the Judgment and order dated 23-5-86 of the Calcut-
ta High Court in F.M.A.T. No. 824 and 825/86
 K. Parasaran, Attorney General, G. Rama Swamy, Addition-
al Solicitor General, S..Roy Chowdhary, Som Nath Chatterjee,
S.N. Kacker, A.K. Ganguli, Sankar Ghosh, N.N. Gooptu,	T.K.
Banner- jee, A.K. Sil, H.S. Parihar, A. Mitra, G. Joshi, S. Roy, A.
Subba Rao, P.	 Parmeshwaran, Bhaskar Gupta, P. Basu, A.
Chatterjee, B. Lehari, S. Sukumaran, Dilip Sinha, J.R.	Das,
K.R. Nambiar, H.K. Puri, P.K. Pillai, S.K. Jain and J.R. Das
for the appearing parties. The Judgments of the Court were delivered: Section 451(e) defines 'Non-Banking Institution' as
meaning	 'a company, corporation, or co-operative society'.
Section 45K empowers the Reserve Bank to collect information
from Non-Banking Institutions as to deposits and to	give
directions in the public interest, 21 in particular	'in respect of any matters relating to or
connected with the receipt of deposits, including the rates
of interest payable on such deposits, and the	periods	 for
which deposits may be received.' Section 45L empowers	 the
Reserve Bank to call for information from financial institu-
tions and to	give directions, in particular directions
relating to the conduct of business by them, etc.
 In 1970 the Banking Commission constituted a Study Group
headed by Dr. Bhabatosh Dutta to review the role of various
nonbanking financial intermediaries. The Study	 Group	con-
fined their study to five classes of Finance	Institutions
which they considered were important Non-Banking Financial
Institutions. They were:- Proceeding to consider Chit Funds and their working, the
Study Group identified three classes of Chit	 Funds:	 (a)
Simple	Chits, (b) Prize Chits and (c) Business	 Chits.	 The
main features of the three classes of Chits were then	 de-
scribed in the following terms:- he, however, has to continue to pay his	sub-
	 scriptions. Thus, every member gets the whole
	 of the chit amount by tums. There is no	loss
	 of capital. Also there is no foreman or	even
	 if there is one he does not charge any commis-
	 sion. This is a form of mutual help and	 co- operative effort at savings. (b) Prize Chits
			In the	 'prize chit',	there is a
	 foreman who ostensibly charges no commission
	 and promises to return the whole of 22 the contributions made by a member	back
	 to him at the end	 of a certain period. Peri- odically,	 the names of 'non-prized' members
	 are put to draw and the lucky member gets	 the
	 prize either in cash or in the	form of an
	 article of jewellery or utility. Once a person
	 gets a prize, he does not have to pay further
	 instalments. The	 lucky member will get	 the
	 prize irrespective of the number	 of instal-
	 ments he has paid provided all the due instal-
	 ments till the drawal of prize have been paid;
	 he will	 then be exempted from further
	 liability to pay. On the contrary the majority
	 of the mem	bers may not have got	 the
	 prize when the scheme closes	though	they
	 get back their total contributions without any
	 deduction or its equivalent in the shape of an
	 article.	This is a scheme which	 is nothing
	 short of a lottery which is an	 offence
	 punishable under Section 294-A of the Indian
	 Penal Code. The name 'Chit Fund' is rather a
	 misnomer in this case. (c) Business Chits
			In this case, there is	 a promoter
	 called foreman who enrols a number of	sub- scribers	and draws up the terms	and condi- tions of the scheme in the form of an agree- ment.	 Every	 subscriber has to pay	 his
	 subscription in regular	 instalments.	 The
	 foreman charges,	 for his service, a	 com
	 mission on which there is a ceiling fixed by
	 law in some States. He also reserves	 the
	 right to take the entire chit	 amount at
	 the first or second instalment as prize. Depend	 ing on the terms of agreement, a
	 fixed amount is also some-	 times	 set
	 aside for distribution among the non-prized
	 mem-	bers. After making provision for the
	 above deductions the	 balance is put to
	 auction (except at the last instalment)	 and
	 given as prize to the member who is prepared
	 to forgo the highest discount. The amount of
	 discount	is distributed as dividend either
	 among all the members	or only among	 the
	 non-prized members. In some States a ceiling
	 has been	 fixed on the discount that a
	 member can offer. In case more	 than	 one
	 person is prepared to offer the same discount
	 or when there are no bidders, lots	 are
	 drawn to choose the prize winning member. The number of	 subscribers in a	chit
	 series equals the number of instalments so
	 that every	member	is assured of	 the
	 opportunity of getting the prize. Some- times with a view to catering	to as	many
	 subscribers as 23 possible a chitty comprises a series expressed
	 in terms of a sub-division or fraction of a
	 full ticket (ticket means the	share of a
	 subscriber which entitles the holder thereof
	 the prize amount at any one instalment). In
	 such cases the	number	of subscribers	 can
	 exceed the number of instalments. In	some
	 cases only auctions are held to determine	 the
	 prize winner while there are chit funds in
	 which prize winning tickets are determined
	 both by lots and by auction". The Study Group's view was that Chit Funds were not effi-
cient as saving or lending institutions and that they	 en-
couraged consumption spending and in some cases hoarding of
scares commodities. The major reason of their popularity was
stated	to be ignorance of the risk and the disadvantages
involved. The ultimate solution, they said, lies in Commer-
cial Banks weaning away the Chit Fund subscribers by offer-
ing attractive deposit and credit schemes. In the meanwhile,
it was suggested that elimination of Chit Funds would leave
credit gap and therefore, they should be regulated by appro-
priate	legislation to ensure safeguarding the	interest of
members	 and prevent the foreman from	 enjoying the	wide
powers that they did at that time. Shortly after the report, the Reserve Bank of India
purporting to exercise its powers under ss.45J and 45K of
the Reserve Bank of India Act gave certain directions called
"Miscellaneous	Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) Direc-
tions, 1973". Paragraph 2 of the directions stated:- tions, or subscriptions or by sale of units,
	 certificates or other instruments or in	 any
	 other manner or as membership fees or admis-
	 sion fees or service charges to or in respect
	 of any savings, mutual benefit, thrift, or any
	 other scheme or arrangement by whatever	name
	 called, and utilising the monies so collected
	 or any 24 part thereof or	 the income accruing	from
	 investment or other use of such monies for all
	 or any of the following
	 purposes-- (a)	giving or awarding periodically or
	 otherwise to a specified number of subscribers
	 as determined by lot, draw or in any other
	 manner, prizes or gifts in cash or in kind,
	 whether or not the recipients of the prize or
	 gift is under a liability to make any further
	 payment in respect of such scheme or arrange-
	 ment; (b) refunding to the subscribers or such
	 of them as have not won any prize or gift,,
	 the whole or part of the subscriptions,	con-
	 tributions, or other monies collected, with or
	 without any bonus, premium, interest or other
	 advantage, howsoever called, on the termina-
	 tion of the scheme or arrangement, or, on or
	 after the expiry of the period stipulated
	 therein; (2) managing, conducting or supervising as a
	 promoter, foreman or agent of any	 transaction
	 or arrangement by which the company enters
	 into an agreement with a specified number of
	 subscribers that	 every	one of	 them shall
	 subscribe a certain sum in instalments over a
	 definite	period	and that every one of	such
	 subscriber shall in his turn, as determined by
	 lot or by auction or by tender	or in	such
	 other manner as may be provided for in	 the
	 agreement, be entitled to the prize amount;
	 Explanation: Paragraph (3)(1)(i) defined a 'Miscellaneous Non-Banking
Company' as meaning a company carrying on any of the types
of business referred to in paragraph 2 of the	 directions.
Paragraph 4 dealt with	 acceptance of	 deposits by	Mis-
cellaneous Non-Banking Companies. Paragraph 4(a) prescribed
six months as the minimum period for which a Miscellaneous
Non-Banking Company could accept a deposit, but no maximum
period	was prescribed. Paragraph 4(b)(ii) prescribed a
ceiling	 of 25% of the aggregate of the paid up capital	 and
free reserve of the company in the case of deposits accepted
by Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies. Paragraph 13 enabled
the Reserve Bank to exempt any company or class of companies
from, all or any of the provisions of the directions either
generally or for a specified period, if it considered neces-
sary for avoiding any hardship or for any other just	 and
sufficient reason. The	 Reserve Bank	of India issued	 a circular letter
bringing the directions to the notice	 of companies	like
Peerless. On September 14, 1973, the Peerless	Company	 ad-
dressed a letter to the Reserve Bank of India explaining the
nature	of their business and claiming that their business
was outside the scope of the directions issued by the	 Re-
serve Bank. Most important of all, it was requested that, if
it was thought that their business attracted the notifica-
tion, they should be granted exemption from the applicabili-
ty of the notification as provided by paragraph 13. It	 was
pointed out that their business was of a special type,	that
it was carried on scientific lines and actuarial principles
and that the applicability of the notification would injuri-
ously affect two hundred thousands of subscribers	that
20,000 persons would lose employment and that the potential
for future employment would be destroyed. It	was further
pointed	 out that over 90% of the concerned Public Fund	 was
invested in Government securities and in Nationalised Banks.
The Balance-sheet of the company, its brochure and a copy of
its advertisement were enclosed. The Reserve Bank of India
by their order dated December 3, 1973 exempted the company
from the provisions of paragraph 4 of the notification in so
far as those provisions restricted the acceptance of	sub-
scriptions under the schemes upto 25% of the paid-up capital
and free reserve fund. Certain conditions were however,
imposed. The company was directed to transfer every year to
the reserve fund a sum not less than 50% of the profit after
taxes. The company was directed not to declare any 26 dividend at rates higher than 6% and 7% on ordinary	 and
preferential shares till the free reserve became equal to
the paid capital. The company was also required to maintain
not less than 75% of its total assets in the form of invest-
ments and Government Trustee-securities, etc.	The Company
was directed to submit every year a certificate from their
Auditors in regard to compliance with the conditions	 im-
posed. The exemption was to be reviewed every two years. It
appears that there was an inspection in 1974, but we have no
information about the findings in the course of the inspec-
tion. Evidently, nothing objectionable was found. This is
apparent from the affidavit filed on behalf of the Reserve
Bank of India in the Calcutta High Court in Civil Rule	 No.
5941(W)77, a writ petition filed by Favourite Investment
Company challenging the refusal of the Reserve Bank to grant
them exemption from the Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies
Directions, 1973 and complaining of discrimination in	that
such an exemption had been granted to	Peerless. Comparing
the schemes of the two companies, it was pointed out in	 the
affidavit that the Endowment Certificates issued by Peerless
Company	 were for periods ranging from ten to thirty years
while the Endowment Certificates granted by Favourite Compa-
ny ranged from five to thirty years. It was stated that	 the
schemes	 of the Favourite Company which ranged for short
periods	 from five to thirty years were unscientific in as
much as interest payable by the company on short term	cer-
tificates was	higher than 10% of the instalments or	sub-
scriptions collected by the company which were invested in
Government securities and Banks where field was between five
to ten percent. It was noticed that Peerless maintained a
fund based on actuarial principles to which the subscrip-
tions received	 from each subscriber from the	second	year
onwards were credited along with compound interest at 8% per
annum.	It was also noticed that cash and Bank	balances in
the current account of Peerless and investment in other
Government securities on short term and fixed deposits	were
adequate to meet the contractual obligations of Peerless to
its subscribers. It was noticed that	 while	the paid-up
capital	 and reserves of Peerless amounted at that time to
Rs.2.33	 lakhs and its investment in Government securities
and fixed deposits amounted to Rs.105.38 lakhs its deposit
liabilities amounted to Rs. 114.76 lakhs. This position	 was
considered satisfactory by the Reserve Bank. It was finally
stated "having regard to the satisfactory financial position
of the Peerless and the fact that it was a well	 established
one and having regard to the certificate furnished by	 the
actuarial consultant of the Peerless supported by data. It
was granted exemption from the provisions of paragraph 4 of
the 1973 Directions subject to its compliance with	 the
following conditions." After setting out the conditions it
was stated that Peerless 27 had been complying with the conditions and that its finan-
cial position continued to be satisfactory. We should	men-
tion here that whatever vices there may be in the Peerless
Scheme	and the business methods of Peerless, the financial
position of Peerless, on the basis of the criteria mentioned
in the affidavit of the Reserve Bank in the Favourire Bank,
is far sounder now than then. In	1974, a Study Group headed by Dr. J .S. Raj	 was
appointed by the Reserve Bank to examine the existing statu-
tory provisions with a view to assessing their adequacy in
regulating the conduct of business by non-banking companies
in the context of the monetary and credit policy laid	down
by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time and to	sug-
gest measures for further tightening up the provisions so as
to ensure that the activities of such companies, in so	 far
as they pertained to the acceptance of deposits, invest-
ments,	lending	 operations, etc. subserved the national
interest and served more effectively as adjuncts to	 the
regulations of	 the monetary and credit policies of	 the
country, besides affording a degree of protection to	 the
depositors' monies. The Study Group went into the matter in
some depth. Chapter VI of their report was devoted to	Mis-
cellaneous Non-Banking Companies covered by the	 Miscellane-
ous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1973.
 In paragraph 6.1 of the report, the Study Group identi-
fied two types of Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies	cov-
ered by the Miscellaneous Non-Banking	 Companies (Reserve
Bank) Directions as: "(a) those conducting prize chits,
	 benefit/savings schemes, lucky draws, etc; the
	 modus operandi of the types of schemes	con-
	 ducted by these companies has been set out in
	 a subsequent paragraph (Paragraph 6.3 extract-
	 ed below); and (b) those conducting conventional or customary
	 chit funds whereunder the foreman companies
	 enter into agreements with a specified number
	 of subscribers that every one of	 them shall
	 subscribe a certain sum in instalments over a
	 definite	period	and that every one of	such
	 subscriber shall in his turn, as determined by
	 lot or by auction or by tender	or in	such
	 other manner as may be provided for in	 the
	 agreements, be entitled to the "prize amount".
	 This prize amount is arrived at by deduction
	 from out	 of the total amount subscribed at
	 each instalment by all subscribers, (i) 28 the commission charged	by the	 company or
	 service charges as a promoter or a foreman or
	 an agent	 and (ii) discount, i.e., any	 sum
	 which a subscriber agrees to forego, from	 out
	 of the total subscriptions of each instalment
	 in consideration of the balance being paid to
	 him." The business of the Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies
conducting prize chits, benefit/savings schemes or lucky
draws etc. was described in paragraph 6.3 of the report as
follows:- The Committee	observed in the report that the Directions
known as the Misellaneous Non-Banking	 Companies (Reserve
Bank of India) Directions. 1973 were applicable to companies
conducting what were commonly known as	prize	chit
schemes/benefit	 or savings schemes or lucky draws and	also
to those conducting conventional type of chits or those
conducting any other form of chits/kuris. What is of impor-
tance and what requires to be noted here is that the Study
Group which had investigated the business of various types
of Non-Banking	 Companies was of the view, and	 their	view
must be taken to have been expressed with reference to those
who were well acquainted with the nature of	business of
Non-Banking Companies	and those who were incharge of	 the
enforcement of the 1973 Directions, that the 1973 Directions
covered	 companies conducting prize chit schemes/benefit or
saving schemes or lucky draws, as well as companies conduct-
ing conventional type of chits and other	 kinds	 of
chits/kuris. Simple recurring deposit schemes do not appear
to have been in the contemplation of either the Datta Study
Group or the Raj Committee, nor were such schemes considered
at that stage as covered by the 1973 Directions.
 The	 conclusion of the Study Group was stated in para-
graph 6, 11 as, follows:- Finally, in paragraph 6.21 the study Group made	 its
recommendation	for a	total ban on the conduct of prize
chits. If paragraph 6.21 is read along with paragraph 6.3 of
the Report we must take it that the recommendation of	 the
Committee was that prize chits of the kind described by them
in paragraph 6.3 should be banned, respective of the	name
under which they were conducted. Simple Recurring Deposit
Schemes were not contemplated. Thereafter, as a follow-up of the recommendations of the
Raj Committee, in 1977 two sets of directions were issued by
the Reserve Bank, called the Miscellaneous	 Non-Banking
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977 and the Non-Bank-
ing Financial	Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977.
Paragraph 2 of Miscellaneous NonBanking Companies (Reserve
Bank) Directions, 1977 was more or less the same as para-
graph 2 of the 1973 directions. As in the 1973	 directions,
so also in the 1977 directions a Miscellaneous	 Non-Banking
Company was defined to mean a company carrying on all or any
of the types of business referred to in paragraph 2 of	 the
directions. Paragraph 5 of the 1977 Miscellaneous Non-Bank-
ing Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions which	corresponded
to paragraph 4 of the 1973 directions, however, made a
radical departure from the earlier provision. For the first
time, a ceiling was fixed on the period for which deposits
could be accepted. It was provided that the period of a
deposit could not be more than six months. Paragraph 14 also
vested	in the Reserve Bank the power to grant exemption in
suitable cases. The	 Non-Banking Financial	 Companies (Reserve Bank)
Directions 1977, were issued simultaneously with the Miscel-
laneous NonBanking Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions	1977
and Section 2(f) , (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (1), respectively
defined	 the expressions 'hirepurchase finance company',
'housing finance company', 'insurance company',	 'investment
company', 'loan company', 'mutual benefit financial company'
and 'non-banking financial company'. 'NonBanking Financial
Company' was defined to mean, "any hirepurchase, finance,
housing	 finance, investment, loan or mutual benefit finan-
cial company and an equipment leasing company but not to
include	 an insurance company or stock exchange or stock-
broking	 company." Paragraph 4 dealt	with Acceptance of
Deposits by mutual benefit financial companies. Paragraph
5(1) dealt with period of deposits for hire-purchase	 fi-
nance,	loan and investment companies and provided that	 the
period of deposits shall not be less than six months or more
than thirty six months. Paragraph 19 made the directions
applicable to a loan company also applicable to every compa-
ny which was a 31 'financial institution' but not belonging to	any of	 the
categories of companies mentioned in paragraph 2(1) (1) or
which was not a miscellaneous non-banking company within the
meaning	 of the Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies Direc-
tions,	1977. 'Financial Institution' is defined in the	 Act
itself (Reserve Bank of India Act ) by Sec. 45. 1 c. Clauses (v) and (vi) which are relevant to the following effect: It was suggested by the learned Counsel for the Reserve Bank
that whether Peerless Company was a miscellaneous Non-Bank-
ing Company within the meaning of the expression as defined
in the	 Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve	Bank
Directions, 1973) or a 'financial institution' which was not
such a miscellaneous banking company, undoubtedly, there was
a ceiling or the maximum period for which the company could
accept	deposits and that was thirty six months. We	will
refer to the argument in due course. Thereafter in 1978 the Prize Chits and Money Circulation
Schemes (Banning) Act 1978 was enacted to ban the promotion
or conduct of prize chits and money circulation schemes	 and
for matters connected	 therewith or	incidental thereto. Section 2(a) defines 'Con- ventional Chits' on practically the same lines as the	type
of business covered by the second part of paragraph 2 of the
Miscellaneous NonBanking Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions
1973 and the Miscellaneous Non-Banking	 Companies (Reserve
Bank) Directions, 1977. Section 2(c) defines 'Money Circula-
tion Scheme' and is as follows: Section 2(e) defines 'prize chit' and is as follows: wise to a specified number of subscribers as
	 determined by lot, draw or in any other	man-
	 ner, prizes or	gifts in cash or in kind,
	 whether or not the recipient of the prize or
	 gift is under a liability to make any further
	 payment in respect of such scheme or arrange-
	 ment; (ii) refunding to the subscribers or such of
	 them as have not won any prize or gift,	 the
	 whole or part of the subscriptions, contribu-
	 tions or	 other	monies	collected, with or
	 without any bonus, premium, interest or other
	 advantage	 by whatever name called, on	 the
	 termination of the scheme or arrangement, or
	 on or after the expiry of the period 33 stipulated therein, but does not include a
	 conventional chit;" Thereafter on July 23, 1979 the Reserve Bank of India	pur-
ported	to send a reply to the Company's letter dated March
31, 1978 to which we have made a reference above. By	this
letter the Reserve Bank pointed out to the Company that	 the
schemes conducted by the Company were 36 covered	 by the provisions of the Prize Chits and Money
Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 which had come	into
force with effect from December 12, 1978. As the Company was
banned from doing fresh business and was required to wind up
its existing business under the Act, there was no question
of granting any exemption to the company. Nevertheless	 the
Reserve	 Bank stated that they had considered the claim	 for
exemption on merits and found that it was necessary to
cancel	the exemption already granted. The reasons for	 the
proposed cancellation were set out and the Company was asked
to show cause why the exemption should not be cancelled. On
August 30, 1979 the Company replied at great length stating
how necessary it was in the public interest to grant exemp-
tion to the Company. Exemption was, however, refused by	 the
Reserve	 Bank on March 19, 1980. On August 10, 1979	 the
Government of West Bengal addressed a communication to	 the
Peerless Company pointed out that the Prize	 Chits/Money
Circulation Schemes conducted by the Company came within the
purview	 of the Prize Chits and Money	Circulation Schemes
Banning) Act, 1978 and, therefore, the Company was under an
obligation to submit a winding up plan under Rule 4 of	 the
Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) (West
Bengal) Rules, 1979. In the meanwhile on September 3, 1979, the Company filed
a writ petition in the Calcutta High Court for a declaration
that the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning)
Act, 1978 did not apply to the business carried on by	 the
company. A Rule was issued and an Interim Order was made in
favour	of the	 company, first for a limited	period	and,
later,	till the disposal of the writ petition. A similar
writ petition was filed questioning a notice issued by	 the
Madhya	Pradesh Government on the same lines as that issued
by the West Bengal Government. A Rule and Interim Order were
issued.	 A learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed
both the writ petitions but appeals preferred by the company
under the Letters Patent against the judgment of the learned
single Judge were allowed by a Division Bench of the Calcut-
ta High Court. It was declared that the business carried on
by the company did not come within the mischief of the Prize
Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning)	 Act, 1978 .
Against	 the judgment of the Division Bench of the Calcutta
High Court the Reserve Bank of India, the Union of India and
the State of West Bengal have preferred Civil	Appeal	Nos.
3562, 3563, 3564, 3565 and 4459 of 1986. In the course of
the judgment, the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court
had observed that the company was a financial	 institution
within the meaning of paragraph 11 of the Non-Banking Finan-
cial Companies (Reserve Bank) directions, 1977	 and there-
fore, 37 the Directions	 contained therein applied to the business
carried	 on by the company. Against this observation of	 the
Division Bench, the Company has also preferred Civil Appeal
Nos. 3566 and 3557 of 1986. We may also mention here	that
after the judgment of the Division Bench of the Calcutta
High Court, the Company, pursuant to the observation of	 the
Division Bench that it was a financial	 institution within
the meaning of paragraph 11 of the Non-Banking Financial
Companies Directions, applied afresh to the Reserve Bank of
India for exemption from complying with the Directions.	 The
Reserve	 Bank of India by its order dated August 22,	1986
refused	 to grant the exemption sought. It appears that	 the
Company has filed another writ petition in the Calcutta High
Court against the refusal of the Reserve Bank of India to
grant exemption. In view of the pendency of the writ peti-
tion in the Calcutta High Court we do not desire to	 say
anything on the merits of the claim of the	Company	 for
exemption or on the question whether the Company is a finan-
cial institution within the meaning of paragraph 11 of	 the
Non-Banking Financial Companies (Reserve Bank)	 Directions.
We leave that question open as we consider that the appeals
preferred by the Reserve Bank of India, the Union of India
and the State of West Bengal may be decided without express-
ing any opinion on the question. Appeals preferred by	 the
Company are disposed of with these observations.
 The question for our consideration is, "Is the Endowment
Scheme	of the	 Peerless Company a prize chit	 within	 the
meaning of Section 2(e) of the Prize Chits and Money Circu-
lation Schemes (Banning) Act?" The particulars of the scheme
are not in dispute. What is its nature? It is not a gambling
scheme. It is not a lottery scheme. There are no prizes, no
gifts,	no elements of chance. It is just a plain Recurring
Deposit	 Scheme such as the many schemes floated by Commer-
cial Banks and National Savings Organisation. This is admit-
ted in the Inspection Report of the Reserve Bank of India.
But, says the Counsel for the Reserve Bank, if money is
received in a lumpsum or in instalments and money is	uti-
lised either for payment of prizes or for refund of	 the
whole or part of the amount of subscription, the scheme is a
prize chit as defined. Prize or gift is not an essential
element	 and refund of the amount of subscription is suffi-
cient to bring it within the mischief of s.2(e) . He	says
clauses	 (i) and (ii) of the definition are disjunctive. He
emphasises the words "for all or any of the following	pur-
poses". And, he stresses the fact that the definition is an
'inclusive' one. He says that if Commercial	 Banks,	 the
National Savings Organisation and others are permitted to
receive deposits And to run Recurring Deposit Schemes,	they
do so under special statutes. The learned Attorney General and the learned Counsel for the
Reserve Bank of India urge that the Act is aimed at protect-
ing the interests of depositors generally and that	 the
millions of depositors of Peerless need such protection
sorely.	 On the other hand the learned Counsel for Peerless
would say that the history of the legislation and the	mis-
chief which the legislation seeks to prevent plainly indi-
cate that the legislation is aimed at schemes involving	 the
giving	away of prizes or gifts and that the	 'inclusive'
definition is	merely intended to take in all	 schemes or
arrangements, whether	called prize chits or	by whatever
other name. It is said that Parliament could	 never	have
intended to strike at all Recurring Deposit Schemes, partic-
ularly	when the Life Insurance Corporation of	 India,	 the
Commercial Banks and National Savings	 Organisation offer
such schemes.	The Learned Counsel urges that Parliament
could never have contemplated the closure of a pioneering
business such as Peerless which has tapped hitherto untapped
savings	 resources of the country. If there are any vicious
features of the business, Peerless, he says, is ready to
remove the vices and cure the defects. He says, for example,
the forfeiture clause has now been deleted from the scheme
and this is more than what the Life Insurance Corporation, a
monolithic, monopolistic Public Sector Corporation has done.
He even hints that the company may be nationalised and	 the
Company would raise no protest. According to him the closure
of the business of the company will result in throwing	 out
of employment tons of thousands of employees and putting in
jeopardy the small savings of millions of little Depositors.
We must add here that both sides talked of the public inter-
est and shed copious tears for the 'unfortunate	 depositors'
but neither side appeared to have any ready plan or even a
contingent plan to protect or benefit the depositors. On the
one hand, there is a demand for the retributive pound of
flesh, unmindful of the future of thousands of employees and
the fate of the small savings of millions of depositors, all
in the name of the interest of the depositors. On the other,
having	bled the depositors white there is now a glib	 and
make-believe offer of submission to strict regulation or
even nationalisation for the protection, it seems, of	 em-
ployees and depositors. In	the ultimate analysis the question turns on	 the
interpretation	of the definition of 'Prize Chit' in s.2(e)
of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning)
Act, 1978 . On this, we are not without guidance. We have it
in Srinivasa Enterprise v. Union of India , [1981] 1 SCR 801.
The very provision was considered and construed there by a
bench of three Judges of the Court which included one of us.
The 39 Court, fortunately, speaking through Krishna Iyer, J. after
extracting s.2(e) , observed,
	 "The quint-essential aspects of a prize	chit
	 are that	 the organizer	collects moneys in
	 lumpsum or instalments, pursuant to a scheme
	 or arrangement, and he utilises such moneys as
	 he fancies primarily for his private appetite
	 and for (1) awarding periodically or otherwise
	 to a specified number of subscribers, prizes
	 in cash	or kind and (2) refunding to	 the
	 subscribers the	whole or part of the money
	 collected on the termination of the scheme or
	 otherwise. The apparent tenor may not fully
	 bring out the exploitative import lurking
	 beneath the surface of the words which	 de- scribe the scheme. Small sums are collected
	 from vast numbers of persons, ordinarily of
	 slender means, in urban and rural areas.	They
	 are reduced to believe by the blare of glit-
	 tering publicity and the dangling of astronom-
	 ical amounts they stand a chance--in practice,
	 neligible--of getting a huge fortune by making
	 petty periodical payments. The indigent agres-
	 tics and the proletarian urbanites, pressured
	 by dire poverty had opted by the hazy hope of
	 a lucky draw, subscribe to the scheme although
	 they can iii-afford to spare any money.	This
	 is not promotion of thrift or wholesome small
	 savings because the poor who pay, are bound to
	 continue	to pay for a whole period of a	 few
	 years over peril of losing what has been	paid
	 and, the end of it, the fragile prospects of
	 their getting prizes are next to nil and	even
	 the hard-earned money which they have invested
	 hardly carries any interest. They are eligible
	 to get back the money they have paid in drib-
	 lets, virtually without interest, the expres-
	 sion 'bonus' in s.2(a) being an euphemism	 for
	 a	 nominal sum. What is more, the repayable
	 amount being small and the subscribers being
	 scattered	 all over the country, they find it
	 difficult even to recover the money by expensive, d
ilatory	 litigative
process. The Court identified the vice sought to be prevented by	 the
Banning Act as the glitter of glamorous prizes, the lure of
big money for	 small. What it sought to prevent was	 the
exploitation of the ignorant poor by the glare of publicity
of fabulous prizes. The Court found that it was this	mis-
chief that was remedied by the Act. According to Srinivasa
the giving away or awarding prizes or gifts to a specified
number	of subscribers is an essential element of a Prize
Chit, as also refunding to the subscribers the whole or part
of the amount of subscription. The Court then	referred to
the report of the Raj Study Group to emphasise, in the words
of Krishna Iyer, J. 'the trauma inflicted by	 lucky	draw
schemes	 on the host of luckless illiterates succumbing to
the prize mana'. Dealing with alternate proposals to	save
prize chits the Court said,
"In many situations, the poor and unwary have to be saved
from the seducing processes resorted by unscrupulous racke-
teers who glamourize and prey upon the gambling instinct to
get rich quick through prizes. So long as there is	 the
resistless spell of a chance though small, of	 securing a
prize,	though on paper, people chase the prospect by	sub-
scribing to the speculative scheme only to lose what	they
had. Can you save moths from the fire except by putting	 out
the fatal glow?" So,	 the Court was of the view that the Prize Chits	 and
Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act was	designed to
fight the baser human instinct of gambling aroused by	 the
prize element involved in the banned transactions- The Court
concluded that	 it was the prize element that	 brought it
within	the mischief of the Act and that without the prize
element	 it would be no different from a Conventional Chit,
considered harmless by the Parliament. We must notice	here
that in a 'Conventional Chit' as defined in the Act, though
every subscriber is entitled to the prize amount, some	 get
it sooner than the others depending on the result of	 the
auction	 or the draw and to the extent and it depends on a
draw there is a slight element of chance. In the Recurring
Deposit Schemes such as the ones we are concerned with, even
that element of chance is lacking. If 'Conventional Chits'
are not banned, it is a legitimate question to ask whether
Parliament could have contemplated the banning	 of schemes
not involving the element of the kind of harm intended to be
prevented, even to the slight degree	as in	Conventional
Chits? Much argument was advanced on the significance of	 the
word 'includes' and what an inclusive	definition implies.
Both sides relied on Dilworth's case. Both sides read	 out
the well known passage in that case where it was stated,
"The word "include" is very generally used in	interpreta-,
tion clauses in order to enlarge the meaning of words or
phrases occurring in the body of the statute; and when it is
so used these words or phrases must be construed as com- prehending, not only such things as they signify according
to their natural import, but also those things which	 the
interpretation clause declares that they shall include.	 But
the word "include" is susceptible of another construction,
which may become imperative, if the context of the Act is
sufficient to show that it was not merely employed for	 the
purpose	 of adding to the natural significance of the words
or expressions defined. It may be equivalent to "mean	 and
include", and	in that case it may afford an exhaustive
explanation of the meaning which, for the purposes of	 the
Act, must invariably be attached to these words or expres-
sions." Our attention was also invited to Ardeshir Bhiwandiwala v.
State of Bombay , [1961] 3 SCR 592; C.I.T. Andhra Pradesh v.
Taj Mahal Hotel , [1972] 1 SCR 168 and S. K. Guptav.	K.P.
Jain, [1979] 4 SCC 54. We do not think it necessary to launch into a discussion
of either Dilworth's case or any of the other cases cited.
All that is necessary for us to say is	 this:	Legislatures
resort to inclusive definitions 1) to enlarge the meaning of
words or phrases so as to take in the ordinary, popular	 and
natural	 sense	of the words and also the sense which	 the
statute	 wishes to attribute to it, 2) to include meanings
about which there might be some dispute, or, (3) to bring
under one nomenclature all transactions possessing certain
similar features but going under different names. Depending
on the context, in the process of enlarging, the definition
may even become exhaustive. We do not think that by using
the word 'includes' in the definition in s.2(a) of the	Act,
the Parliament intended to so expand the meaning of prize
chit as to take in every scheme involving subscribing	 and
refunding of money. The word 'includes', the context shows,
was intended not to expand the meaning of 'prize chit'	 but
to cover all transactions or arrangements of the nature of
prize chits but under different names. The expression 'Prize
Chit' had nowhere been statutorily defined	before.	 The
Bhahatosh Datta Study Group and the Raj Study Group	 had
identified the schemes popularly called 'Prize Chits'.	 The
Study Groups also recognised that 'Prize Chits' were	also
variously called benefit/savings schemes and lucky draws and
that the basic common features of the schemes were	 the
giving	of a prize and the ultimate refund of the amount of
subscriptions (Vide Para 6.3 of the report of the Raj Study
Group).	 It was recommended that prize chit and the like by
whatever name	called should be banned. Since	prize chits
were called differently, 'prize chits', 'benefit/savings
schemes', 'lucky draws', etc. it 43 became	necessary for the Parliament to resort to an inclu-
sive definitions so as to bring in all transactions or
arrangements containing these two elements. We do not think
that in defining the expression 'Prize Chit', the Parliament
intended to depart from the meaning which the expression had
come to acquire in the world of finance, the meaning which
the Datta and the Raj Study Groups had given it. That	this
is the only permissible interpretation will also be further
evident	 from the text Chit and the context as we shall
presently see. Interpretation must depend on the text and the context.
They are the bases of interpretation. One may well say if
the text is the texture, context is what gives the colour.
Neither can be ignored. Both are important. That interpreta-
tion is best which makes the textual interpretation match
the contextual. A statute is best interpreted when we	know
why it was enacted. With this knowledge, the statute must be
read, first as a whole and then section by section, clause
by clause, phrase by phrase and word by word. If a statute
is looked at, in the context of its enactment, with	 the
glasses	 of the statutemaker, provided by such context,	 its
scheme,	 the sections, clauses, phrases and words may	take
colour and appear different than when the statute is looked
at without the glasses provided by the context. With these
glasses we must look at the Act as a whole and discover what
each section,	each clause, each phrase and each word is
meant and designed to say as to fit into the scheme of	 the
entire	Act. No part of a statute and no word of a statute
can be construed in isolation. Statutes have to be construed
so that every word has a place and everything	 is in	 its
place. It is by looking at the definition as a whole in	 the
setting of the entire Act and by reference to what preceded
the enactment	and the reasons for it that the	 Court	con-
strued the expression 'Prize Chit' in Srinivasa and we	find
no reason to depart from the Court's construction.
 We have already referred to the Bhabatosh and Raj Study
Groups'	 Reports and recommendations. In para	6.3 of	 the
latter	report	the two common and basic features of prize
chits by whatever name known were identified as the giving
of prizes to the lucky ones and the refunding of subscrip-
tion to every one. These prize chits by whatever name known
were recommended to be banned. It was	this recommendation
that was accepted by the Parliament in enacting the Prize
Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act . If	this
much is borne in mind it becomes evident that the two	 re-
quirements mentioned in the two clauses (i) and (ii) of	 the
definition are not to be read disjunctively; they are	 two
distinct attributes of 'Prize Chits', each of which 44 has to be satisfied. It is important to notice here that the
Conventional Chit satisfies both the requirements of	 the
definition of 'Prize Chit', since, as we have already point-
ed out, it involves both the 'certain' and the 'chance'
elements, the certain element being the refund of the amount
of subscriptions less the deductions and the chance element
being the time of such payment, dependent on the result of
the draw or auction. Yet the definition of 'Prize Chit'
expressly excludes the Conventional Chit obviously for	 the
reason	that the 'chance' element is overshadowed by	 the
'certain' element. If so, why should any construction be
placed	on the definition so as to bring in all Recurring
Deposit	 Schemes, even if they do not involve a chance	ele-
ment? Such a construction would reduce the definition to a
near absurdity	 and render the reference to the giving or
awarding of a prize or gift, a meaningless superfluity. If a
conventional chit is not a 'prize chit' by definition, there
appears	 to be	 no logic in construing	 the definition to
include a Recurring Deposit Scheme. The argument is that the
two clauses (i) and (ii) are to be read disjunctively	 and
that they should not be read as if they are joined by	 the
conjunction 'and'. We do not agree. There is	no need to
introduce the word 'or' either. How clauses (i) and (ii) of s.2(e) have to be read depends on the context. The context
requires the definition to be read as if both clauses	have
to be satisfied. There is nothing in the text which makes it
imperative that it be read otherwise. The learned counsel
urges that the expression "all or any of the following
purposes" indicates that the purpose may be either the	 one
mentioned in (i) or the one mentioned in (ii). We do	 not
agree with this submission. Each of the clauses (i) and (ii)
contains a number of alternatives and it is to those several
alternatives that the expression "all or any of the follow-
ing purposes" refers and not to (i) or (ii) which are	 not
alternatives at all. In fact, a prize chit, by whatever name
it may be called, does not contemplate the exhaustion of the
entire fund by the giving of prizes; it invariably provides
for a refund of the amount of subscription, less the deduc-
tions,	to all the subscribers or to those who have not	 won
prizes,	 depending on the nature of the scheme. Clauses	 (i)
and (ii) refer to the twin attributes of a prize chit or
like scheme and not to two alternate attributes.
 Our	 construction of s.2(e) is further reinforced by a
reference to the other provisions of the Act. Section 3 prescribes, "No person shall promote or conduct any prize
chit or money circulation scheme, or enrol as a member to
any such chit or scheme, or participate in it otherwise or
receive	 or remit any money in pursuance of such chit or
scheme." Section 4 makes a contravention of s.3 punishable
with imprisonment extending to three years or fine extending
to five thousand 45 rupees subject to a minimum sentence of one year's imprison-
ment and fine of one thousand rupees. It is clear that	even
a subscriber is guilty of an offence	punishable with an
obligatory minimum sentence. While it is possible to	 say
that Parliament desired to root out prize chits and schemes
of like nature involving the vicious element of gambling, it
is inconceivable that Parliament intended to	 visit	even
subscribers to Recurring Deposit Schemes involving no	such
vice with such dire consequence. Section 5 makes printing,
publishing of any ticket, coupon or other document for	 use
in the Prize Chit or Money Circulation Scheme with a view to
promotion of such scheme in contravention of the Act,	 the
printing, publication or distribution of any advertisement
of the Prize Chit or Money Circulation Scheme, the use of
any premises for purposes connected with the promotion or
conduct	 of the scheme etc. punishable with	imprisonment
extending to two years or fine extending to three thousand
rupees subject to a minimum sentence of one year's imprison-
ment and fine of one thousand rupees. Section 8 provides for
forfeiture of	newspapers or other publications connected
with any Prize Chit or Money Circulation Schemes. Surely
these provisions are far too draconian to be	 applied to
schemes which are but Recurring Deposit Schemes.
 However we look at it, we arrive at the conclusion	that s.2(e) does not contemplate a scheme without a	 prize	and,
therefore, the Endowment Certificate Scheme of the Peerless
Company	 is outside the Prize Chits and Money	 Circulation
Schemes	 (Banning) Act . The conclusion appears to us to be
irresistable. The appeals filed by the Reserve Bank of
India,	the Union of India and the State of West Bangal	 are
accordingly dismissed. It is open to them to take such steps
as are open to them in law to regulate schemes such as those
run by	 the Peerless Company to prevent exploitation of
ignorant subscribers. Care must also be taken to protect the
thousands of employees. We must also record our dissatisfac-
tion with some of the schemes of the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion which appear to us to be even less advantageous to	 the
subscribers than the Peerless Scheme. We suggest that there
should	be a complete ban on forfeiture clauses in all	sav-
ings schemes, including Life Insurance Policies, since these
clauses hit hardest the classes of people who need security
and protection most. We have explained this earlier and we
do wonder whether the weaker sections of the people are	 not
being made to pay the more affluent sections Robbing Peter
to pay Paul? We would also like to query what action the Reserve Bank
of India and the Union of India are taking or proposing to
take against 46 the mushroom growth of 'finance and investment companies'
offering staggeringly high rates of interest to depositors
leading us to suspect whether these companies are not specu-
lative	ventures floated to attract unwary and credulous
investors and capture their savings. One has only to look at
the morning's	newspaper to be	 greeted by advertisements
inviting deposits and offering interest at astronomic rates.
On January 1, 1987 one of the national newspapers published
from Hyderabad, where one of us happened to be spending	 the
vacation, carried as many as ten advertisements with 'banner
head lines', covering the whole of the last page, a quarter
of the	 first page and conspicuous spaces in	other pages
offering fabulous rates of interest. At least two of	 the
adverisers offered to double the deposit in 30 months,	2000
for 1000, 10000 for 5000, they said.	 Another advertiser
offered	 interest ranging between 30% to 38%	for periods
ranging	 between six months to five years. Almost all	 the
advertisers offered extra interest ranging between 3% to 6%
if deposits were made during the Christmas--Pongal season.
Several	 of them offered gifts and prizes. If	the Reserve
Bank of India considers the Peerless	Company	 with eight
Hundred	 Crores	 invested in Government Securities, Fixed
Deposits with National Banks etc. unsafe for depositors, one
wonders what they have to say about the mushroom non-banking
companies which are accepting deposits, promising	most
unlikely returns and what action is proposed to be taken to
protect the investors. It does not require much	 imagination
to realise the adventurous and precarious character of these
businesses Urgent action appears to be called for to protect
the public. While on the one hand these schemes encourage
two vices affecting public economy, the desire to make quick
and easy money and the habit of excessive and wasteful
consumer spending, on	 the other hand	 the investors	 who
generally belong to the gullible and less affluent classes
have no security whatsoever. Action appears imperative.