This appeal is directed against the judgment and decree

dated 18.3.1986 passed by the Additional District Judge,

Chittorgarh, whereby the suit filed by the respondent-defendant

No.1 was decreed; sale deed dated 15.6.1974 to the extent of

plaintiff No.1's share was cancelled on payment of Rs. 13,500/-

by the plaintiff No.1 to defendants No.1 to 3 within a period of

two months; plaintiffs were held not entitled to possession of the

suit house from the defendants-appellants; suit filed by the

plaintiff No.2 for cancellation of sale deed was held pre-mature

and the plaintiff No.1 was held entitled to costs from the

defendant No.4. The facts in brief may be noticed thus : the respondents

No.1 and 2 - plaintiffs filed a suit for cancellation of sale deed 2 and for possession of the suit property against the appellants

and respondent No.4 Bhagwan Lal (their father) with the

averments that the plaintiffs had purchased the suit property by

a registered sale deed dated 1.2.1974 from Suresh Chandra for

a sum of Rs. 26,000/-. The defendants No.1 to 3 were tenants in

the said house and a sum of Rs. 1,000/- were deposited with

Suresh Chandra as earnest money. The rent deed has been executed by the eldest brother in

favour of Suresh Chandra, which has been handed over to the

plaintiffs by Suresh Chandra on the date of sale. By notice dated

6.2.1974, Suresh Chandra had informed defendant No.1 by a

registered notice that he has sold the house to the plaintiffs and

therefore, the rent be paid to them and the deposit of Rs.

1,000/- had also been transferred to them. Notice dated

1.3.1994 was issued by the plaintiffs seeking vacant possession

of the said house, which was replied by the defendants on

22.3.1974 admitting them to be owners of the house, but

refusing to vacant the same and one month's rent was sent by

money-order and therefore, based on attornment, the

defendants No.1 to 3 have become plaintiffs' tenants. On

23.6.1974, the plaintiff No.1 became major and plaintiff No.2

was still a minor. The suit property was required by the plaintiffs

reasonably and bonafidely, however, the respondent No.4, their

father sold the suit house to the defendants No.1 to 3 for a sum

of Rs. 28,000/- on 15.6.1974 and has executed a sale deed and

therefore, the defendants do not treat them as landlord which is

incorrect. The defendant No.4 had not obtained permission under Section 8 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 ('the 3 Act') from the competent court and therefore, the sale deed was

illegal and void and the plaintiffs are entitled for getting the

same cancelled. The plaintiff was becoming a major 08 days

after the date of sale and therefore, the defendant No.4 had no

reason to sale the same to the defendants No.1 to 3; the

defendant No.4 had no requirement as guardian of the money;

as the defendants are plaintiffs-tenants, they are entitled for

possession and therefore, the suit be decreed and the sale deed

dated 15.6.1974 be cancelled and possession of the suit house

alongwith the due rent be decreed. A written statement was filed by the defendants No.1 to 3

and it was averred that the suit house was purchased by the

defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal from Suresh Chandra and not by

the plaintiffs. The defendant No.4 was not entitled to purchase

the said house as there was premption of Mool Chand. The rent

note was not given by Suresh Chandra to the plaintiffs and the

same is still with the defendant No.4; the notice given was

incorrect, which was replied to; plaintiffs were not treated as

landlord and the rent was not tendered to them, they have no

requirement of the house as they are students only. The

defendant No.4 himself has purchased the house and sold the

same and the suit has been filed malafidely. The property was

purchased in the name of the plaintiffs 'Benami' and therefore, Section 8 of the Act was not applicable. In the alternative, it was

submitted that even if it is held that the property belongs to the

plaintiffs still defendant No.4 as natural guardian was entitled to

sale the same for the benefit of the plaintiffs and therefore, the

sale was valid. The suit on behalf of the plaintiff No.2 could not be filed by

the next friend in the presence of natural guardian; the suit was

bad for mis-joinder of cause of action and for non-impleadment

of Mool Chand, a necessary party. The suit was bad on account

of active fraud, therefore, the same was liable to be dismissed. The trial court framed 12 issues. The most relevant being

Issue No.1 as to whether the real purchaser of the house-in-

question was not plaintiffs, but defendant No.4 and the plaintiffs

were only Benamidar; Issue No.2 was as to whether the sale

deed executed by the defendant No.4 in favour of the defendants

No.1 to 3 was illegal and void; whether the sale by the

defendant No.4 was for the benefit of the minor plaintiffs and

what was its effect on the suit. Several other issues were also

framed. On behalf of the plaintiffs evidence of PW-1 Jaiprakash,

PW-2 Gordhan Lal, PW-3 Rameshwar Lal, PW-4 Suresh Chandra

and PW-5 Bhagwan Lal was recorded and on behalf of the

defendants No.1 to 3 evidence of DW-1 Ramniwas and DW-2

Rameshwar Lal was recorded. After hearing the parties, the trial court came to the

conclusion that the plaintiffs failed to prove that the real

purchaser of the suit property was defendant No.4 and the

plaintiffs were mere Benamidar; the sale deed executed by the

defendant No.4 in favour of the defendants No.1 to 3 was void;

the sale was not for the benefit of the plaintiffs and therefore,

the same was void; composite suit was maintainable for

cancellation and eviction; the plaintiffs failed to prove personal

and bonafide necessity and comparative hardship; Mool Chand 5 was not a necessary party. The defendants were entitled for the

sale consideration of Rs. 28,000/-; the plaintiff No.1 was entitled

to retain the property without right of premption. The fraud, if at

all committed, the same was committed by the defendant No.4;

the plaintiffs were not estopped on account of any admissions

made by the father; the suit was not bad for mis-joinder of

causes; the suit can be filed by next friend even in the presence

of natural guardian; the plaintiffs were not entitled for

possession and for mesne profit for the period the defendant

remains in possession till cancellation. Ultimately, the trial court

passed a decree as noticed here-in-before. It is submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that

from the oral and documentary evidence available on record, it is

proved that the property was purchased by the defendant No.4

and the plaintiffs were merely Benamidar and therefore, the

defendant No.4 was well within his right to execute the

impugned sale deed and the trial court committed grave error in

deciding Issue No.1 against the plaintiffs. It was further

submitted that even if it is held that the suit property was owned

by the plaintiffs, still the respondent No.4 being father and

natural guardian of the plaintiffs was well within his right to

execute the sale deed as the same was for the benefit of the

plaintiffs minors as otherwise on account of the premption

sought to be exercised by Mool Chand, the plaintiffs would have

lost the said property for a sum of Rs. 26,000/- only whereas the

defendants have paid a sum of Rs. 28,000/- for the property

which was purchased by them few months back for Rs. 26,000/-.

It was further submitted that the fraud committed by the 6 defendant No.4, father of the plaintiffs writ large and therefore,

the suit was liable to be dismissed. Reliance was placed on the judgments in Manik Chand &

Anr. vs. Ramchandra : AIR 1981 SC 519; Sri Narayan Bal & Ors.

vs. Sridhar Suthar & Ors. : (1996) 8 SCC 54; Ram Chandra

Singh vs. Savitri Devi & Ors. : (2003) 8 SCC 319 and Devendra

Kumar vs. State of Uttaranchal & Ors. : (2013) 9 SCC 363. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents-plaintiffs

submitted that the judgment and decree passed by the trial

court to the extent the suit has been decreed does not call for

any interference. It was submitted that from the evidence both

oral and documentary led by the parties, it is apparent that the

property was in fact purchased from the funds of the plaintiffs

and the same was sold by him in violation of provisions of Section 8 of the Act and therefore, the transfer was void. With reference to various documents, it was submitted that

the Income-Tax Returns were filed well before the property was

purchased / the present dispute arose, which clearly indicates

that the suit property was purchased by the plaintiffs and it was

always treated by not only the defendant No.4 but the

appellants-defendants No.1 to 3 also as belonging to / owned by

the plaintiffs. No evidence has been placed on record by the

plaintiffs to show that the property was purchased Benami in the

name of the plaintiffs and the real owner was defendant No.4.

No allegation was neither made in the written statement that the

property belongs to HUF nor any evidence was led in this regard

and therefore, the law cited had no application. 7 Reliance was placed on the judgments in Smt.

Surasaibalini Debi vs. Phanindra Mohan Majumdar : AIR 1965 SC

1364; Bhim Singh (dead) vs. Kan Singh : AIR 1980 SC 727 and

Saroj vs. Sunder Singh & Ors. : Civil Appeal No.10582 of 2013

decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 25.11.2013. I have considered the rival submissions. The issues which arises for determination in the present

appeal are : The suit property, a house was purchased in the names of

the plaintiffs vide sale deed dated 1.2.1974 executed by Yati

Suresh Chandra (Exhibit-1). The purchasers were described as

Jai Prakash Ji - Suresh Chandra Ji S/o Shri Bhagwan Lal Ji,

minor through guardian father Shri Bhagwan Lal Ji S/o Phool

Chandra Ji. On purchase of the said property vide Exhibit-1

dated 1.2.1974, a notice dated 6.2.1974 (Exhibit-3) was issued

by the seller Yati Suresh Chandra to the appellant No.1 informing

about the said sale to the plaintiffs. Thereafter, on 1.3.1974, a

notice was issued by the plaintiffs in their own name describing

them as minor through guardian Shri Bhagwan Lal (Exhibit-4)

informing the defendant No.1 regarding the purchase by them of

the suit property and seeking possession on account of their 8 bonafide requirement. By Exhibit-6 for the period 9.2.1974 to

8.3.1974, the rent by money-order was sent by the appellants to

the plaintiffs and by a reply dated 22.3.1974 (Exhibit-7)

addressed to the plaintiffs Jai Prakash and Suresh Chandra, the

defendant No.1 indicated that he had sent the rent by money-

order and disputing the fact that the suit premises were required

by them bonafide and the notice was issued under the influence

of their father. Exhibit-8 is the envelop, which was addressed to

the plaintiffs. However, by sale deed dated 15.6.1974 (Exhibit-

A/1) the property was sold in the name of plaintiffs Jai Prakash

and Suresh Chandra by their father Bhagwan Lal indicating that

on account of receipt of notice of premption from Mool Chand,

the house was being sold to the appellants for sum of Rs.

28,000/- and the house was of their ownership. On behalf of the plaintiffs entries from the account books

of the firm were exhibited as Exhibit-16 to Exhibit-33 & Exhibit-

36 to Exhibit-54 to indicate the source of fund, by which the

property was purchased by them and on transfer, the amount of

sale consideration was also deposited in their accounts with the

firm. Exhibit-34 is the Income Tax Return which was filed on

22.10.1973 alongwith extract of the books which also supports

the entries in the books of account produced as Exhibit-16 to

Exhibit-33. Exhibit-35 is also copy of Income Tax Return filed on

18.7.1974 alongwith extract of the books of account. In support of the claim, the plaintiffs examined PW-1

plaintiff himself, PW-2 Gordhan Lal - who is uncle of the

plaintiffs, PW-3 Rameshwar Lal - another uncle, PW-4 Suresh

Chandra - the seller and PW-5 Bhagwan Lal - their father. 9 From the statement of witnesses, the plaintiffs have

proved the source of fund at the time of purchase of the suit

property, which is fortified from the Income Tax Return (Exhibit- 34) filed on 28.10.1973. It would be seen that at the time of

purchase of the suit property by the minors through their father

on 1.2.1974, the plaintiffs had sufficient fund available with them

for purchasing the same and therefore, apparently, it cannot be

said that the suit property was purchased by the defendant No.4

Bhagwan Lal - Benami in the name of the plaintiffs. The creation

of capital in the name of minor children by way of gifts by

relatives and purchasers of the immovable property by them

through their natural guardian are not unknown and are normal

practice prevalent in the business communities. The donor in the

present case Goverdhan Lal and Rameshwar Lal, uncles of the

plaintiffs, were examined as PW-2 and PW-3, who have

categorically supported the plaintiffs version and were not able

to be displaced during cross-examination. The another donor

was grand-mother of the plaintiffs. The source of consideration is almost the deciding feature

as to whether the transaction is Benami or not. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Bhim Singh (supra) has observed and held on

the said aspect as under:- (emphasis supplied)

 As discussed above, in the present case it is established

that the source of fund for the purchase money was the plaintiffs

themselves and the same was not purchased by any one else

and in no case by the defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal. As such, it

cannot be said that the property was purchased Benami in the

name of the plaintiffs by defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal.

Therefore, the finding recorded by the learned trial court on

Issue No.1 does not call for any interference. Admittedly, the suit property after purchase by the

plaintiffs, who were minors at the time through sale deed dated

1.2.1974 (Exhibit-1), was sold on 15.6.1974 by registered sale

deed Exhibit-A/1 by father of the plaintiffs. The document

Exhibit-A/1 sale deed clearly indicates that the plaintiffs were

minors at the time when the sale deed was executed and that

the same as being executed by defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal as

plaintiffs' guardian being father. The property having been

transferred in the name of the minors by registered sale deed

dated 1.2.1974 (Exhibit-1), the same was belonging to the

minors as the minor is not disqualified to be a transferee under

sub-clause (3) of Section 6(h) of the Transfer of Property Act,

1882. Once the property is owned by a minor, the provisions of Section 8 of the Act are attracted. Section 8 of the Act in so far

as relevant reads thus : section (2) except in case of necessity or for an
 evident advantage to the minor." While sub-section (1) confers power on a natural guardian

of a Hindu minor to do all acts which are necessary or

reasonable and proper for the benefit of the minor or for the

realisation, protection or benefit of the minor's estate. The

guardian can in no case bind the minor by a personal covenant,

however, the said power is subject to the other provisions of Section 8 . Sub-section (2) provides for such conditions / restrictions,

which inter-alia mandates that a natural guardian shall not,

without the previous permission of the Court mortgage, charge,

transfer by sale, gift, exchange or otherwise any part of the

immovable property of the minor and sub-section (3) provides 12 that any disposal of immovable property by a natural guardian in

contravention of sub-sections (1) and (2) is voidable at the

instance of minor or any person claiming under him. Even the

grant of permission by the Court is circumscribed by sub-section

(4), wherein except in case of necessity or for an evident

advantage to the minor such permission cannot be granted. The submission of learned counsel for the appellants that

as the sale was executed by the father for the apparent benefit

of the minors for a higher consideration and in view of the fact

that the property was affected by right of premption by Mool

Chand, under sub-section (1) the same was saved and the same

cannot be said to be void, is apparently without any substance.

Though, sub-section (1) permits a natural guardian to do all acts

necessary for the benefit of minor and for benefit of minor's

estate, but the same is subject to other provisions of Section and

sub-section (2) clearly provides that without previous permission

of the Court transfer by sale of immovable property shall not be

made by the guardian and any sale in contravention of sub-

section (2) is voidable at the instance of the minor. The said

sub-section (2) does not admit of any exception, whereby for

any condition the minor's estate could be transferred by the

natural guardian without previous permission of the Court. It is for the minor, on attaining majority, not to question

the transfer which is in contravention of sub-section (2) of Section 8 , but if he decides to question the same, the same is

voidable at his instance. In the present case, the plaintiff No.1

has on attaining majority chosen to question the transfer made

by the defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal, his father in favour of the 13 defendants No.1 to 3 without seeking previous permission from

the Court and therefore, the same was rightly declared void by

the trial court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in its recent pronouncement in

the case of Saroj (supra) has set-aside the judgments of the trial

court as well as the High Court which had upheld the transfer

made by mother of two minor girls even though for fulfilling the

requirements of the daughters, as the same was in contravention

of Section 8(2) of the Act. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed

as under:- The judgments relied on by the learned counsel for the

appellants are of no apparent help to the appellants as in the

case of Manik Chand (supra), it was a case of purchase of

immovable property and not of transfer and the judgment in the

case of Smt. Surasaibalini Debi (supra) dealt with a case of

alienation by karta or adult member of a joint Hindu Family, 14 which involved undivided share of minor of the family. In the

present case there is no whisper by the defendants in their

written statement and / or attempt to allege that the property

was joint family property. The only plea raised is that as the sons

are part of a Hindu undivided family, the present is a case of

active fraud. In view of the above, it is apparent that the suit property

has been transferred by the defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal,

father / natural guardian of the plaintiffs without prior permission

from the Court and the same being in violation of provisions of Section 8(2) of the Act, at the instance of the plaintiff No.1, the

same is voidable and the suit having been filed for getting the

same declared void, the Court was justified in declaring the said

sale as void. So far as the plea regarding the active fraud is concerned,

the learned trial court has come to the conclusion that the

plaintiffs cannot be alleged of being guilty of active fraud as

admittedly the property-in-question was sold by the father when

the plaintiffs were minor and even if any fraud has been

committed, the same has been committed by the father

defendant No.4 Bhagwan Lal. A bare reading of the entire cross-examination of the

plaintiffs would reveal that the defendants-appellants have failed

to put any question to the plaintiffs on their case of alleged fraud

in filing the suit. The defendants have apparently failed to make

out a case of fraud as the fact of minority of the plaintiffs was

clearly indicated in the sale deed and the father -defendant No.4

never claimed that the plaintiffs / sellers were major and 15 therefore, it was upto the purchasers to take care of the

requirement as to whether prior permission from the competent

court has been obtained by the father or not. Having failed to

seek compliance of the provisions of the Act, it is now not open

for the appellants to claim active fraud. Things would have been

different if the defendant No.4 had stated that the property was

purchased by the defendant No.4 Benami in the name of his

minor children and that he was competent to sale the same as

its ostensible owner and / or that he has obtained permission

from the competent court for transfer of the property as it

stands in the name of minor. On the other hand, by the notice (Exhibit-3) by Suresh

Chandra to the appellants, Notice (Exhibit-4) by the plaintiffs to

the appellants for vacating the house, money-order (Exhibit-6)

sent by the appellants to the plaintiffs and reply (Exhibit-7) by

the appellants to the plaintiffs clearly shows that all along after

the sale deed was executed in favour of the plaintiffs, the

appellants were well aware of the status of the ownership and

had in-fact atorned to the plaintiffs minors as their tenants and

as such, the entire plea of fraud sought to be raised is not

warranted. The judgments in the case of Ram Chandra Singh (supra)

and Devendra Kumar (supra) relied on by learned counsel for the

appellants on the issue of fraud, therefore, have no applicability

to the facts of the present case. No argument, other than what has been noticed herein-

before, was advanced by any of the learned counsel. 16 Accordingly, there is no substance in the appeal and the

 same is, therefore, dismissed. No costs. (ARUN BHANSALI), J. rm/-