Instant application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2

 of The Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 has been preferred at the

 behest of plaintiff seeking interim injunction to restrain the

 defendant including entities or/and persons acting for and on its

 behalf, from violating its statutory and common law rights in its

 registered trademarks 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' and associated

 registered label marks, as well as trade dress rights in

 packaging, and copyright in artwork on such labels and

 packaging, by using the marks 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C. The 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2025:HHC:37871

 products are glucose-based powders combining glucose and

 Vitamin D or Vitamin C to be mixed with water and consumed as

 . an energy drink which are sold and manufactured by both

 parties. The subject matter of the plaint is a commercial suit as

 defined in Section 2(1) ©(xvii) of The Commercial Courts Act ,

 of
 2015. 2. Plaintiff, Zydus Wellness Products Ltd, is an Indian
 rt
 company engaged in the business of food, nutrition and skincare

 products. The plaintiff is, inter alia, the registered proprietor of

 several trademarks, but for the purpose of the present plaint, the

 trademarks 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' are the ones relevant for

 consideration. Products under this brand were first launched in

 1933 by Plaintiff's predecessors. 'Glucon-D' was registered in

 India in 1975 and 'Glucon-C' was registered around 1985. 3. Initially, these trademarks were used in India by

 Glaxo Laboratories, then Heinz India Pvt. Lyd. under license

 from Heinz Italia S.p.a., however vide two separate deeds of

 assignment dated 01.02.2020 and 23.01.2019, Heinz Italia S.p.a.

 transferred ownership of trademarks and all intellectual property

 rights to Heinz India Pvt. Ltd. (Annexure-C). Subsequently, in ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 3 2025:HHC:37871

 2019, Plaintiff and Heinz India Pvt. Ltd. merged via a scheme of

 amalgamation and Plaintiff became the owner of brands like

 . 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' amongst others. (Annexure-D) 4. Plaintiff claims to be one of India's leading food,

 nutrition and skincare product companies with leading brands

 of
 like 'Glucon-D', 'Glucon-C', 'Nuralite', 'Complan', 'Sampriti',

 'Nycil', 'EverYuth', 'Sugar Free' etc. having enormous global

 presence. rt 5. Defendant, Leeford Healthcare Ltd. is an Indian Company

 engaged in the business of generic pharmaceuticals and

 wellness products. Defendant claims to be using the mark since

 17 years without any objection and the packaging in question for

 the past 4 years. The defendant's mark 'Rock On' is registered

 as a word mark under Class 5. 6. A Cease and Desist notice was served upon the

 defendant on 17.04.2023 by the plaintiff. The defendant replied

 on 13.05.2023, pursuant to which the plaintiff made further

 attempts to resolve the matter amicably, including through

 subsequent letter dated 21.06.2023. However, since no

 satisfactory outcome resulted from the said communications, the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 4 2025:HHC:37871

 plaintiff instituted the present suit alongwith an interim application

 for redressal of its grievances. . 7. Precisely the case of the plaintiff is that the defendant

 uses the trademarks 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' for glucose

 based instant energy drink thereby misappropriating and copying

 of
 packaging/labeling and artwork therein which is deceptively

 similar, if not identical, to Plaintiff's packaging for 'Glucon-D' and
 rt
 'Glucon-C' marks/products, thus being trade dress and copyright

 infringement. 8. Plaintiff is asserting the following registered

 trademarks as infringed: 9. Mr. Guru Natraj, learned counsel duly assisted by

 . Ms. Shradha Karol, Advocate for the plaintiff submitted that

 plaintiff relies on its trade mark registrations for 'Glucon-D' and

 'Glucon-C' family of marks. The family of marks includes

 of
 registrations for the words per se and for the distinctive

 packaging with certain essential elements and trade mark

 applications,
 rt
 and also decades-long uninterrupted and

 continuous use of such marks whether word or packaging. 10. He submitted that since plaintiff's products have been

 in the market since 1930's, 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C'

 trademarks are entitled to well-known trademarks status within

 the meaning of Section 2(1)(zg) of The Trade Marks Act, 1999

 and are entitled to the highest level of protection. He submitted

 that plaintiff has built up this reputation and goodwill over time,

 through continuous and uninterrupted use, and any such

 unauthorized use of the earlier, well-known, and registered

 trademark or any deceptively similar mark, like 'Glucose-D' and

 'Glucose-C', by any third party results in dilution and tarnishing of

 goodwill and reputation of Plaintiff and its trademarks. He

 submitted that in the present case defendant is indulging in ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 6 2025:HHC:37871

 unfair competition by attempting to piggyback on plaintiff's

 reputation and goodwill associated with the products since the

 . year 1933. 11. Mr. Natraj, contended that the defendant's use of the

 expression 'Glucose-D' amounts to infringement of the Plaintiff's

 of
 registered trademarks bearing Nos. 324132, 305664, and

 324131 in Classes 29, 30 and 32 respectively, as the impugned
 rt
 mark is deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's well-known and

 registered mark 'Glucon-D'. Additionally, it was contended that

 the Defendant's use of the mark 'Glucose-C' infringes the

 Plaintiff's registered trademarks bearing Nos. 1485282 and

 395430 in Classes 5 and 30 respectively, since the said mark is

 phonetically, visually, and structurally similar to the Plaintiff's

 registered trade mark 'Glucon-C', and is likely to cause confusion

 and deception among consumers as to the source and origin of

 the goods. 12. In this regard, learned counsel placed reliance upon

 the judgment of Delhi High Court in Natures Essence Pvt. Ltd. V. Photogreen Retail Solutions Pvt. Ltd., 2021 SCCOnLine ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 7 2025:HHC:37871

 Del 1538, wherein principles to asses 'deceptive similarity' are

 given. Relevant portion the judgment is reproduced as under: chase the product is relevant. The look/appearance, and the sound, of
 the trade marks, as well as the nature of the goods, are all relevant
 considerations. Surrounding circumstances are also relevant. (b) The onus of proof is on the plaintiff who alleges passing off. As against
 this, in an opposition to the registration of a trade mark, the onus to
 prove deceptive similarity is on the defendant who seeks non- registration, or removal of the trade mark from the register. (c) "Confusion" refers to the state of mind of the customer who, on seeing

 the mark, thinks that it differs from the mark on the goods which he
 has previously bought, but is doubtful whether that impression is not
 due to imperfect recollection. The question is one of first impression. (d) This is especially true in the matter of phonetic similarity. A meticulous
 comparison of the words, syllable by syllable, is to be avoided. The
 possibility of careless pronunciation and speech, both on the part of
 the buyer walking into the shop, as well as the shop assistant, is also
 required to be factored into consideration. (e) The matter has to be examined from the point of view of a person of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection. It has to be seen as to
 how such a purchaser would react to the trade mark, the association
 which he would form and how he would connect the trade marks with
 the goods he would be purchasing. (f) The Pianotist test25, postulated over a century ago, has repeatedly
 been endorsed by the Supreme Court, as the definitive test to be
 adopted while comparing rival trade marks. According to this test, the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 8 2025:HHC:37871

 Court is required to judge the rival trade marks by their look and
 sound, and consider,

 . (i) the goods to which they are to be applied, (ii) the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy those
 goods, (iii) all surrounding circumstances and (iv) the consequences which would follow if each of the marks is used
 in the normal way as the trade mark for the goods of the respec-
 tive owners. of
 While doing so, the common part of the words forming the competing
 marks may not be decisive. The overall similarity of the composite
 words is required to be seen, having regard to the circumstance (if
 applicable) that both are on like goods of similar description. The test
 to be applied is whether, if the two marks are used in a normal and
 rt
 fair manner, there is likelihood of confusion or deception. (g) The whole word/mark is to be considered. An ordinary man would not

 split a word or name, in a trade mark, into its components, but would
 go by the overall structural and phonetic similarity of the marks at the
 nature of the goods previously purchased, or of which he has been
 told and which he wants to purchase. It has to be examined whether
 the totality of the trade mark of the defendant is likely to cause decep- tion/confusion or mistake in the minds of the persons accustomed to
 the existing trade mark of the plaintiff. (h) The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the basic idea

 represented by the plaintiff's mark. The Court is, however, required to
 apply both the phonetic and the visual tests. At times, ocular similarity

 may be sufficient to find possibility of confusion/deception, even if the
 marks are visually dissimilar, though ocular similarity, by itself, may
 not, generally, be the decisive test. Where, however, (i) in all other re- spects, the marks of the plaintiff and defendant are different, (ii) the
 word/words, in the marks, which are phonetically similar, cannot be
 regarded as the dominant word, or essential feature, in the marks,
 and (iii) the surrounding circumstances also belie any possibility of
 confusion, it has been held that deceptive similarity cannot be found
 to exist merely on the basis of phonetic similarity or even identity. The
 matter, apparently, is always one of fact. The Court would have to de-
 cide, on a comparison of the two marks, and the parts thereof which
 are phonetically similar, as to whether such phonetic similarity is likely,
 considering all other circumstances, to confuse or deceive a purchaser
 of average intelligence and imperfect recollection, always bearing in
 mind the nature of the goods, and the degree of circumspection which
 would be expected of the purchasers who would purchase such goods. 2025:HHC:37871 (i) The Court is required to examine whether the essential features of the
 plaintiff's mark are to be found in the mark of the defendant. Identifi-
 cation of the essential features is a question of fact, left to the discre- . tion of the Court. (j) No objective standards are possible, regarding the degree of similarity
 which is likely to cause deception. It has to be seen from the view-
 point of the purchasers of the goods. (k) The test to be applied would depend on the facts of the case. Prece-
 dents are valuable only to the extent they specify tests for application,
 and not on facts. of (l) On the issue of deceptive similarity, and especially with respect to the
 aspect of phonetic similarity, English cases are not of relevance. Eng-
 lish cases are useful only to the extent they aid in understanding the
 essential features of trade mark law. The tests for deceptive similarity, 13.
 rt
 which apply in other jurisdictions, may not always apply in India."
 In the afore background of the case, learned counsel

 submitted that while deciding the question of deceptive similarity,

 these principles have to be followed. 14. Mr. Nartaj, submitted that over the years slight

 changes were incorporated in the packaging of the product,

 however, certain essential features of packaging of 'Glucon-D'

 retained through the years, including in the Plaintiff's current

 packaging, as under: 15. He submitted that such long, uninterrupted and

 extensive use of the overall colour combinations, combination of
 rt
 essential elements such as 'Instant Energy' tagline, 'Happy

 Family' motif in variations, and use of battery related motifs to

 depict a recharge of energy level as well as 'Glucon-D' combined

 with the large market share have resulted in the formation of an

 indelible association of such features and products with such

 packaging solely and exclusively with Plaintiff and act as an

 unambiguous and clear source identifier. It was further submitted

 by Mr. Natraj that 'Glucon-C' was first registered in 1982, and

 plaintiff's predecessor launched it in orange variant in 1984,

 subsequently when orange flavor was moved to 'Glucon-D',

 'Glucon-C' was sold in a variant called 'ImmunoFizz' which was

 discontinued. He submitted that although the product has been

 discontinued, plaintiff intends to launch it very soon. 2025:HHC:37871 16. Mr. Natraj submitted that defendant continues to

 advertise, offer for sale and promote the impugned product

 . despite multiple attempts by plaintiff to resolve the matter,

 including a Cease & Desist notice to defendant on 17.04.2023,

 which has been discussed in the earlier part of the judgment. of 17. Learned Counsel submitted that the products have to

 be seen from the point of view of a man with average intelligence
 rt
 and of imperfect recollection. He submitted that average person

 is not likely to remember the fine distinctions of differentiating

 plaintiff products 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' with defendant's

 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C'. In this regard he placed reliance

 upon judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Corn Products

 Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , AIR 1960 SC

 142, wherein it was held as under: 2025:HHC:37871 18. Learned counsel also placed reliance upon K.R.

 Chinna Krishna Chettiar v. Sri Ambal and Co., Madras and

 . anr., 1969(2) SCC 131, relevant para is reproduced as under: 19. While referring to the Market Share Data compiled by

 AC Nielsen for year 2021 till 28.02.2022 (pg. 184 of plaintiff's

 documents), learned counsel for the Plaintiff submitted that the

 Plaintiff's product, which is alleged to have been infringed,

 commands a market share of more than 58% in its respective

 segment. It was contended that such figures clearly demonstrate

 the Plaintiff's substantial market presence and that, over the

 years, the Plaintiff's product has acquired significant reputation, ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 13 2025:HHC:37871

 goodwill, and brand recognition amongst customers owing to its

 consistent quality and widespread popularity. . 20. Mr. Natraj relied upon 'sales figure' table from the

 pleading for the years 1994-2002 and 2011-2022 as well as on

 notarized certificates of Chartered Accountant (Annexure L) for

 of
 the product 'Glucon-D' and submitted that over the years, owing

 to tremendous amount of time, effort and resources in
 rt
 popularizing the brand, the brand has generated colossal returns

 which have only increased substantially over the years, and

 defendants cannot be permitted to take advantage of the

 goodwill that plaintiff has created. He also placed reliance upon 'promotional expense table' to suggest that tremendous effort,

 time and money has been incurred by plaintiff to build a brand

 identity. 21. While referring to Section 29 of the Act, Mr. Natraj

 stated that defendant's acts of using 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C'

 alongwith impugned marks and use of label/packaging is an

 infringement within the meaning of each of Sections 29(1),

 29(2)(b)& (c), 29(6), 29(7), 29(8) & 29(8) of the Act. 2025:HHC:37871 22. It was submitted that the Defendant's use of the

 impugned marks on business-to-business websites as well as in

 . brick and motor retail shops on product packaging which is

 visually and phonetically deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's

 registered marks and label registrations, including TM No.

 of
 5820259 in Class 30 for the Plaintiff's Regular, Nimbu Pani and

 Mango Blast variants. The Defendant's Regular and Orange
 rt
 variants, according to the Plaintiff, reproduce key elements of the

 Plaintiff's packaging thereby satisfying the essentials of

 infringement under Sections 29(1) and 29(2)(b) of the Act. 23. Learned counsel further argued that the Defendant's

 use of identical marks for identical goods attracts the statutory

 presumption of likelihood of confusion under Section 29(3),

 thereby fulfilling the ingredients of infringement under Section

 29(2)(c). 24. It was also contended by learned counsel

 representing plaintiff that the Defendant has affixed the

 impugned marks to its goods and packaging, offered them for

 sale, advertised them online, and stocked them for such

 purposes, thereby attracting Section 29(6)(a), (b), and (d). 2025:HHC:37871 25. Further, the Defendant has, despite knowledge of the

 Plaintiff's prior rights, deliberately and willfully displayed and

 . advertised the impugned marks which are identical or

 deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's registered trademarks,

 constituting infringement under Section 29(7). of 26. He further submitted that by reproducing essential

 features of the Plaintiff's label and by minimally altering the
 rt
 Plaintiff's mark (substituting 'n' with 'se'), the Defendant has

 sought to take unfair advantage of the Plaintiff's goodwill and

 reputation, thereby causing detriment to the distinctive character

 of the Plaintiff's marks thereby violating Section 29(8) of the Act. 27. Mr. Natraj submitted that Defendant's packaging and

 overall trade dress are deceptively similar to those of the

 Plaintiff, as noticed by just a simple visual comparison. In one

 instance of online advertisement and offer for sale, the

 Defendant has used the Plaintiff's own packaging while claiming

 to be the manufacturer. In other instances, the marks 'Glucose- D' and 'Glucose-C' are displayed prominently at the center of the

 packaging to attract consumer attention, using a font style and

 colour combination similar to that of the Plaintiff, along with the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 16 2025:HHC:37871

 tagline 'Instant Energizer' written in an identical manner below

 the impugned marks, accompanied by a Happy Family motif. In

 . this regard, he submitted that the impugned marks and

 packaging bear no independent association with the Defendant

 and are evidently derived from the Plaintiff's registered

 of
 trademarks 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C', as well as the packaging

 and trade dress associated therewith. 28.
 rt
 Learned counsel for the Plaintiff submitted that

 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' qualify as well-known trademarks

 within the meaning of Section 2(1)(zg) of the Act and defendant's

 use of the deceptively similar marks 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose- C', along with identical or substantially similar trade dress,

 constitutes passing off. He submitted that all essential and

 distinctive features of the Plaintiff's packaging and trade dress

 have been copied by the Defendant, leaving no distinction

 between the two competing products. Consequently, the

 Defendant's conduct amounts to infringement to exploit the

 goodwill and reputation that the Plaintiff and its predecessors

 have developed over more than nine decades of continuous use. 2025:HHC:37871 29. Learned counsel for the Plaintiff submitted that the

 Plaintiff's packaging, labels, and artwork constitute artistic works

 . protected under Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957, and that

 the Plaintiff is the absolute owner of such copyright. He further

 submitted that the Defendant's packaging and label designs are

 of
 colourable and slavish imitations of the Plaintiff's distinctive

 'Glucon-D' labels and their variants. The overall layout, get-up,
 rt
 and arrangement of features in the Defendant's products are

 deceptively similar to those of the Plaintiff and therefore amount

 to infringement within the meaning of Sections 51 and 55 of the

 Copyright Act, 1957. 30. Mr. Natraj, further argued that no balance of

 convenience lies in favour of the Defendant, as it can easily

 adopt a distinct mark and packaging. Consequently, no prejudice

 would be caused to the Defendant if it is restrained from using

 deceptively similar marks. The Plaintiff and its predecessors

 have invested substantial resources in developing and

 popularizing 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' brands, and the

 Defendant's is unjustly profiting from Plaintiff's goodwill, as such

 the balance of convenience, clearly lies in favour of the Plaintiff. 2025:HHC:37871 31. Learned counsel further submitted that the

 Defendant's deliberate and willful acts of infringement have

 . caused serious damage to the Plaintiff's goodwill and reputation,

 resulting in dilution of the Plaintiff's trademarks and erosion of

 public trust. The injury suffered by the Plaintiff is irreparable and

 of
 incapable of monetary assessment. Unless restrained, the

 Defendant's infringing conduct will continue to cause ongoing
 rt
 harm to the Plaintiff's business and brand. 32. Next, learned counsel submitted that the cause of

 action first arose in April 2023, when the Plaintiff discovered

 online advertisements of the infringing products on third-party

 platforms such as Torus Health and 1mg.com. It further arose in

 May 2023, when the Defendant, instead of discontinuing such

 use, falsely asserted prior user rights over the marks 'Glucose-D'

 and 'Glucose-C'. He further submitted that the cause of action

 was revived in August 2024, when the infringing listings,

 previously removed, resurfaced across multiple online platforms. The cause of action, it was contended, is continuous, as the

 Defendant continues to advertise, market, and sell the infringing

 goods. It was further submitted that the present suit, has also ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 19 2025:HHC:37871

 been filed on a quia timet basis, as the Plaintiff has credible

 reason to believe that the Defendant intends to release large

 . quantities of the infringing products. 33. Mr. Natraj submitted that this Hon'ble Court

 possesses territorial jurisdiction under Section 20 of the Code of

 of
 Civil Procedure, 1908, as the Defendant maintains a major

 manufacturing facility within District Solan, Himachal Pradesh,
 rt
 and advertises and offers the impugned goods for sale through

 e-commerce platforms accessible to consumers in this

 jurisdiction. It was further submitted that the infringing products

 are offered for sale and enquiry within this territorial jurisdiction,

 including through websites such as 1mg.com and MedPlusMart,

 thereby conferring jurisdiction on this Hon'ble Court. 34. In light of the afore submissions, learned counsel for

 the Plaintiff prayed that this Court be pleased to grant interim

 and ad-interim injunction restraining the Defendant, its directors,

 distributors, and agents from manufacturing, selling, advertising,

 or dealing in goods bearing the impugned marks 'Glucose-D' and

 'Glucose-C', or any other mark, label, or packaging deceptively

 similar to the Plaintiff's 'Glucon-D' and 'Glucon-C' trademarks ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 20 2025:HHC:37871

 and trade dress, and to pass such other orders as may be

 deemed just and proper in the interest of justice. . Arguments on behalf of the Defendant 35. At the very outset, Mr. Neeraj K. Grover, Advocate

 duly assisted by Mr. Yash Sharma, Advocate stated that mere

 of
 pleading that there is an urgent and urgent interim relief is

 required to be granted, may not be sufficient to come out of the
 rt
 provisions contained in Section 12-A of The Commercial Courts

 Act, which clearly provides that before filing suit, if any, plaintiff is

 obliged to resort to pre-institution mediation. In this regard, he placed reliance upon judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in

 Dhanbad Fuels P Ltd. V. Union of India, Appeal (Civil), 6846

 of 2025, decided on 15.05.2025, relevant paras are reproduced

 as under: c. As held in paragraph 113.1 of the decision in Patil
 Automation (supra), any suit which is instituted under the 2015
 Act without complying with Section 12A is liable to be rejected

 under Order VII Rule 11. However, this declaration applies
 prospectively to suits instituted on or after 20.08.2022.
 d. A suit which contemplates an urgent interim relief may be
 filed under the 2015 Act without first resorting to mediation as

 prescribed under Section 12A of the 2015 Act.
 e. Unlike Section 80(2) of the CPC, leave of the court is not
 required to be obtained before filing a suit without complying

 with Section 12A of the 2015 Act. f. The test for "urgent interim relief" is if on an examination of
 the nature and the subject-matter of the suit and the cause of

 action, the prayer of urgent interim relief by the plaintiff could
 be said to be contemplable when the matter is seen from the
 standpoint of the plaintiff. g. Courts must also be wary of the fact that the urgent interim
 relief must not be merely an unfounded excuse by the plaintiff
 to bypass the mandatory requirement of Section 12A of the
 2015 Act. h. Even if the urgent interim relief ultimately comes to be
 denied, the suit of the plaintiff may be proceeded with without
 compliance with Section 12A if the test for "urgent interim
 relief" is satisfied notwithstanding the actual outcome on
 merits. i. Suits instituted without complying with Section 12A of the
 2015 Act prior to 20.08.2022 cannot be rejected under Order ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 22 2025:HHC:37871

 VII Rule 11 on the ground of non-compliance with Section 12A
 unless they fall within the exceptions stipulated in paragraph
 113.2 and 113.3 of the decision in Patil Automation (supra). . j. In suits instituted without complying with Section 12A of the

 2015 Act prior to 20.08.2022 which are pending adjudication
 before the trial court, the court shall keep the suit in abeyance
 and refer the parties to time-bound mediation in accordance
 with Section 12A of the 2015 Act if an objection is raised by

 the defendant by filing an application under Order VII Rule 11,
 or in cases where any of the parties expresses an intent to
 resolve the dispute by mediation." of 36. Mr. Grover, learned counsel for the defendant argued

 that the suit and the application for interim injunction filed by the
 rt
 plaintiff are liable to be dismissed as not only has the plaintiff

 concealed relevant facts, but it has also made several wrong &

 misleading claims in the plaint which are false to its own

 knowledge, thus, in view of such conduct of the plaintiff it is not

 entitled to any discretionary relief of permanent or temporary

 injunction as the same is barred under the provisions of Section

 41(i) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. 37. It was submitted on behalf of the defendants that due

 to constant change in the packaging of the plaintiff, a consumer

 of average intelligence cannot be expected to remember all the

 changing features associated with the same brand name. He

 also submitted that no exclusive feature and what has been

 claimed is set out in the plaint. 2025:HHC:37871 38. He submitted that plaintiff, while claiming exclusivity

 over its alleged trademark 'Glucon-D', has concealed from this

 . Hon'ble Court that the Registrar of Trade Marks had imposed

 disclaimers in several of its registrations, including disclaimers

 over the letter 'D' and other descriptive components of its marks. of
 He submitted that moreover, while obtaining registration for

 'Glucon-D' (TM No. 305664), the Plaintiff had taken a contrary
 rt
 stand before the Registrar. Upon being confronted with citations

 of prior Gluco-formative marks such as GLUCOTONE,

 GLUCANIL, GLUCOSE-D, and GLUCOSE under Section 11 of

 the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, the Plaintiff had

 expressly stated that (pgs. 1-2 of plaintiff's documents): 39. Similarly, while seeking registration of 'Glucon-D'

 under TM No. 324131, the Plaintiff, when confronted with the

 prior mark 'GLUCOMAX', averred that the word 'Gluco' is

 common to trade for glucose-based products. (pg. 3 of plaintiff's

 documents) He submitted that this admission was duly recorded ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 24 2025:HHC:37871

 by the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks in his order dated

 03.03.1978.Thus, plaintiff is stopped from claiming 'Glucose-D'

 . to be similar to 'Glucon-D' by virtue of its earlier stand that

 'Gluco' is common to trade. In this regard he placed reliance

 upon judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in SK Sachdeva v. Shri

 of
 Educare Ltd. , 2016 SCC OnLine Del 473, relevant portion is

 reproduced as under: process reasoning is required to ascertain the descriptive
 element and that the average consumers normally perceive
 the mark as a whole and do not analyze its various details. 16. The stand taken by the respondents by its letter dated
 08.06.2012 was that the word 'SHRI RAM' represented a
 popular figure and deity in Hinduism and no one proprietor ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 25 2025:HHC:37871

 could claim exclusive rights on the mark 'SHRI RAM'. It was
 further categorically admitted that several 'SHRI RAM'
 formulative marks were co-existing on the register of

 . trademarks in respect of the same services i.e. of schools. This fact was conveniently omitted by the respondents from
 the plaint. It is not possible to believe that the respondents
 were not aware of the stand taken on 08.06.2012 inasmuch as
 the respondents only a few days prior to the filing of the suit

 on 24.04.2014 had written the letter dated 15.04.2014 to the
 Trademark Registry withdrawing the earlier stand taken by
 letter dated 08.06.2012. There is no basis/rationale given by

 of
 the respondents for withdrawal of the said admissions made
 by the said letter dated 08.06.2012. The admissions made by
 letter dated 08.06.2012 have a material bearing on the stand
 of the appellants in the subject suit. The fact that the
 respondents did not mention about the letter dated 08.06.2012
 rt
 in the plaint, in our view, amounts to a clear case of
 misrepresentation and concealment of material facts that have
 a bearing on the very case set up by the respondents in the

 plaint." 40. Reliance, in this regard, was also placed upon Wow

 Momo Foods P Ltd. V. Wow Burger, 2025 BHC 8044 and

 Phonepe P Ltd. Vs Resilent Innovations , 2023 SCC OnLine

 764, which shall be dealt by this Court in the later part of the

 judgment. 41. Mr. Grover, further submitted that the Plaintiff has

 wrongly averred that a Cease and Desist notice was issued by

 the Plaintiff upon the Defendant in March, 2024, whereas such C

 & D notice was issued almost 17 months before the filing of the

 suit i.e. in third week of April 2023 by virtue of notice dated

 17.04.2023. He submitted that plaintiff has falsely stated in the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 26 2025:HHC:37871

 plaint that the screenshot reproduced therein from a website

 named 'Torus' or even other screenshots reproduced in para 4

 . were assailed in the C & D Notice, whereas none of the said

 screenshots were assailed in the C & D Notice dated

 17.04.2023. of 42. He submitted that plaintiff has wrongly and falsely

 averred in the plaint that the defendant was marketing selling the
 rt
 products under the mark 'Glucon-D' whereas the defendant has

 never used the mark 'Glucon-D' nor has ever marketed or sold

 any of its products under the said mark. Mr. Grover vehemently

 denied that Defendant's products were pulled down and

 reappeared after April 2023, whereas the Defendant has

 continuously marketed its 'Rock-On Glucose-D' and 'Rock-On

 Glucose-C' products during that entire period. 43. Learned counsel submitted that though plaintiff has

 averred massive, perhaps exaggerated sales, but not even a

 single invoice has been placed on record to prove the same. He

 submitted that Plaintiff has falsely pleaded that defendant has a

 manufacturing facility in Solan District, Himachal Pradesh. The

 said premises (Plot Nos. 79A and 79B, Phase-II, Village Thana, ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 27 2025:HHC:37871

 Tehsil Baddi) belong to an independent job-work manufacturer

 and not to the Defendant. Thus, the Plaintiff's attempt to invoke

 . jurisdiction of this Court under Section 20 CPC is misconceived. 44. Mr. Grover submitted that Plaintiff has falsely

 projected continuous and extensive use of the mark 'Glucon-C'. of
 However, from the plaint, it is evident that the Plaintiff

 discontinued use of this mark long ago, as such it cannot claim
 rt
 distinctiveness or exclusivity over the mark 'Glucon-C', and the

 registrations under TM Nos. 395430 and 1485282 are prima

 facie liable to be removed under Section 47(1)(b) of the Act. 45. Learned counsel submitted that Defendant's use of

 generic words like 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' is merely

 descriptive of the nature, kind, and intended purpose of the

 goods being glucose-based energy drink containing Vitamin D

 and Vitamin C respectively. Such use is expressly protected

 under: 46. While placing reliance upon Asian Paints Ltd. Vs

 Home Solutions, Bombay High Court in Notice of Motion No.

 . 2961 of 2007 in Suit No. 2178 of 2007, he submitted that the

 use of such words like 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' which are

 totally generic in nature and indicates the characteristics of

 of
 goods/services cannot be restrained under the applicable

 principles of trademark law. Relevant para of the judgment is as

 under: - 47. Reliance in this regard is also place upon the

 following judgments, which would be discussed in the later part

 of this order: 48. Learned counsel for the defendant submitted that

 their packaging bears its registered trademark 'Rock-On' along
 rt
 with distinct design elements and colour combinations. The

 overall trade dress of the Defendant's and Plaintiff's products are

 different, therefore, there exists no likelihood of confusion,

 deception, or association in the minds of the purchasing public

 and as such Section 29(1) and 29(2) are not attracted in the

 facts of the present case. In this regard he placed reliance upon Pernod Ricard India v. Karanveer Singh Chhabra, Civil

 Appeal No. 10638 of 2025 and Kopran Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Recon Ltd. 1996 SCC OnLine Bom 416. 49. Mr. Grover stated that 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C'

 are commonly used as descriptors of the products by numerous

 members of the trade including large manufacturers like Dabur,

 Baidyanath, Rasna etc. and such use is common to trade, as

 such plaintiff cannot restrain the defendant. In this regard, ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 30 2025:HHC:37871

 reliance was placed upon Skyline Education Institute vs SL

 Vaswani, Civil Appeal Nos. 1360-1361 of 2005 with Civil

 . Appeal No. 1362 OF 2005., relevant para of the judgment is

 reproduced as under: 50. Reliance was also placed upon judgment of Hon'ble

 Apex Court in JK Kapoor v. Micronix India 1994 Suppl (3)

 SCC 215, relevant para of the judgment is as under: . 51. Thus, in view of above, he submitted that the terms

 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' are generic and commonly used by

 several reputed manufacturers. Many registered marks wherein

 'Glucose-D' are part of the label are registered with the Registrar

 of
 of Trademarks, hence, the Plaintiff cannot claim monopoly over

 such generic expressions which are publici juris and common to
 rt
 trade. He submitted that it is a settled proposition of law that by

 registering a phonetic variant or a misspelled variant of a generic

 word, a plaintiff cannot claim exclusivity over the generic word

 itself or even another phonetic variant of the generic word. 52. It was further submitted that the Plaintiff's claim of

 exclusivity over the depiction of a family on packaging is

 misconceived. He submitted that there can be no copyright in the

 mere idea of showing a family. Moreover, the family depictions

 on the two competing packages are entirely distinct in

 composition, attire, and arrangement. It was also submitted that

 Plaintiff's assertion of exclusivity over green packaging is

 untenable, as such colour schemes are common in trade for ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 33 2025:HHC:37871

 glucose-based drinks, and the Plaintiff itself uses multiple colour

 variants for its own products. . 53. Mr. Grover submitted that plaintiff is estopped from

 now claiming similarity between 'Glucon-D/C' and 'Glucose-D/C',

 having earlier represented to the Registrar that 'Gluco' and

 of
 'Glucose' are common to trade and incapable of protection. He

 submitted that plaintiff cannot be permitted to blow hot and cold
 rt
 in the same breath by taking contradictory stands before different

 forums. He placed reliance upon certain judgments which are

 discussed in the later part of the judgment. 54. Lastly, he submitted that the defendant has been

 using the expressions 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' for

 approximately 17 years without objection and even the current

 packaging of the defendant is in use since over 4 years. Even

 after issuance of the cease and desist notice in April 2023, the

 Plaintiff waited over 16 months before filing the present suit. In

 this regard he submitted that such inordinate delay disentitles

 plaintiff for any relief and the plaint alongwith application at hand

 can be dismissed on this sole count. Reliance is placed upon

 judgment of Delhi High Court in Shri Gopal Engg and Chemical ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 34 2025:HHC:37871

 Works v. POMX Laboratory, I.A. 10526/91 in Suit No.

 3049/91, relevant para whereof is reproduced as under: True, it is a preliminary stage calling for an interlocutory order,
 but It does not mean that I must keep my eyes closed, accept

 every word the plaintiff says as Gospel truth and lock-jaw the
 defendant. The Explanation offered, if at all it can be called an

 Explanation ,deserves to be ignored, at least for the present,
 and the reasons are more than one. What efforts did the
 plaintiff make in "finding" defendant's product "in different
 parts of the country"? No details are given. In any case what

 was it that it had not found already? plaintiff's notice of june.
 14 1990 shows it knew all that was worth knowing. And,
 coming No the second limb of the Explanation that after the
 service of the notice it was "found" that the defendant had
 "stopped using" the impugned trademark, we are not told,
 how, when and from where it was so "found". On the other
 hand, the figures of sale placed on the record by the
 defendant show that its sales were rather soaring. What to tell
 of having stopped the user of the impugned mark the
 defendant was, on plaintiff's own showing, vigorously
 advertising its product twice a week in one single newspaper.
 This is what is borne out from the plaint and so also from the
 letter of July 5, 1991 from an agent of the plaintiff. Incidentally ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 35 2025:HHC:37871

 that letter also shows that the defendant had in fact never
 "stopped" using the impugned -mark but had rather been
 marketing its products vigorously and relentlessly. Thus delay

 . in bringing proceedings, which is important in an interlocutory

 motion, it sought to be explained in a manner, can hardly be
 accepted. Therefore, it does not seem to me that the plaintiff
 has really acted with the speed with which it ought to have
 acted. 5. It was argued that since delay unaccompanied by anything
 else, is not anymore taken as a bar to a suit for permanent

 of
 injunction, it should also not cause the Court to refuse
 interlocutory injunction and that there is no justification. On
 that point, to make distinction, which the Courts have
 generally sought to make, between the grant of interim
 injunction and permanent injunction. I am afraid, I cannot
 rt
 agree, for there are reasons more than one to make the
 distinction and one of them is that since preliminary injunction
 is sought upon the theory that there is an urgent need for

 speedy action to protect the plaintiff's right, by sleeping on
 them it demonstrates the lack of need for speedy relief. 6. 1 must, however, confess to my attention having been
 drawn to a judgment of this Court in Hindustan pencils Private

 Ltd. v. India Stationary Products Co., MANU/DE/0383/1989 : ................................. 2025:HHC:37871

 I must, before I venture to offer my respectful comments, and
 it is so well-known already, that every case, being an island
 unto itself, depends on its own particular facts and that

 . consequently the value of the authorities lies not so much on

 the actual decision as in the tests applied for determining the
 disputes in the case of Hindustan pencils use by the
 defendant of the mark was fraudulent ,and on coming to know
 of infringement the plaintiffs had filed an application

 cancellation of the registration of defendants copyright
 followed by a suit for injuction. It was held that neither the
 delay was such as could be held to be fatal nor could it defeat

 of
 an action for the grant of a temporary injunction where the use
 by the defendant of the mark was fraudulent ".The observation
 made in the above noted paragraphs 26 and 29 must thus be
 read in that context only .In any case, as any person with a
 discretion eye would observe, the statement made in the said
 rt
 paragraphs is not unqualified .It is qualified by its own ifs and
 buts. In paragraphs 26 the qualification starts from "if one the
 facts..."and in paragraphs 29,it would be cruel, if may say so,

 the read the sentence: "It appears difficult for me to
 comprehend the distinction which the have sought to make
 between the grant of interim injunction and permanent
 injunction" shorn of what follows thereafter. Any other
 approach would mutilate the thought process and present a

 picture with its contours totally distorted. It is for these reasons
 that I am inclined to hold that the observed made in the
 judgment lead the plaintiff nowhere. 7. I must, however, hasten to add that I do not decide this
 motion merely on the ground of delay, though in the present

 case, that in itself would be sufficient. There is strong prima
 facie case to show that the defendant has been in open
 concurrent trade since the year 1983 with business spread out

 in the State of Uttar Pradesh, a state of which the plaintiff
 claims to be its center of activity. Morecover, there is nothing
 to show that because of the presence of the defendant, the
 business of the plaintiff has suffered or its sale\s have shown
 decline And, I must also pause to remark that though in the
 present case the plaintiff does attribute to the defendant an
 improper and sinister motive, a consideration which Lord
 Simonds thought ought to be particularly called to attention
 (See: Office Cleaning Services Ltd. v.Westminster Window
 and General Cleaners It would be cruel, if I may say so, the
 lies not so much on Ltd. 1945 63 RPC 39 am obliged to put
 this consideration completely aside, because from the material
 on the record, I cannot possibly return any such finding in
 favors of the plaintiff. 2025:HHC:37871 8. It was argued on behalf of the defendant that during the
 period after the notice it had been expending its business and
 had been lulled into a false sense of security and for that

 . reason too grant of such drastic. Injunction as are now sought

 on an interlocutory basis deserved to be refused. I must
 confess, I do find the argument attractive. Balancing the matters as best as I can, it seems to me that,

 taking into (consideration) the drastic nature of the relief
 sought, the need for the plaintiff to establish an improper and
 sinister motive, the defense of open and honest concurrent

 of
 trading since 1983, and the inordinate unexplained delay on
 the part of the plaintiff, it is not appropriate to grant any
 interlocutory relief. 9. Order accordingly." rt 55. Reliance is also placed upon judgment of Delhi High

 Court in BDA Pvt. Ltd. Vs Paul P. John, IA No. 2399/2007 in

 CS (OS) 383/2007, is No. 6301/2007 in CS (OS) 383/2007 and

 is No. 8/2008 in CS (OS) 383/2007, relevant para is as under: The plaintiff knew about the defendants in 1995-1996. Yet, the
 plaintiff took no action in respect of the alleged passing off
 purportedly indulged by the defendants. The cease and desist
 notice was sent for the first time in 2002 and the suit [CS(OS)
 1058/2002] was also filed in that year, i.e., 2002. It was sought
 to be contended on behalf of the plaintiff that initially the
 defendants were restricted to the State of Karnataka and that
 did not hurt the plaintiff much. It is only in the year 2002 when
 the defendants extended the tentacles of their business
 beyond the territories of Karnataka that the plaintiff got its ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 38 2025:HHC:37871

 cause of action for instituting the suit for passing off. At this
 prima facie stage, I am not impressed with this argument. As
 noted above, the plaintiff was aware of the defendant's mark

 . 'ORIGINAL CHOICE' and that its sales were growing day by

 day. In fact, as of now, the sales of 'ORIGINAL CHOICE'
 exceed those of 'OFFICER'S CHOICE'. The plaintiff was thus,
 all this while, sitting back and allowing the defendants to grow
 and this was not for a period of a few months or a year or a

 couple of years but for seven full years from 1995-1996 to
 2002. In this period the defendants grew substantially and
 established their mark 'ORIGINAL CHOICE'. The delay in

 of
 approaching this Court would, Therefore, come in the way of
 the plaintiff for the purposes of an interim injunction. 56. Mr. Grover also submitted that no case of passing off or
 rt
 infringement of copyright is made out as the trade dress of the

 competing products are totally different and plaintiff cannot claim

 any exclusivity for the use of the generic words like 'Glucose-D'

 and 'Glucose-C' . He placed reliance upon judgment of Delhi

 High Court in Kellogg Company v. Pravin Kumar , 1996 (1)

 ArbLR 430 Delhi. 57. Lastly, Mr. Grover submitted that the Plaintiff's

 reliance on judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated

 18.5.2007 in Heinz Italia v. Dabur India ltd, 2007(6) SCC 1 is

 misconceived as in the said judgment , the use of the words

 'Glucose-D' by Dabur was not restrained. In fact, there is no

 restraint against Dabur even till date from using the words

 'Glucose-D'. In this regard, the Defendant relied upon judgment ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 39 2025:HHC:37871

 of the Single Judge and the Division Bench Judgment of Calcutta

 HC, which is discussed in the 'Analysis part of the judgment. The

 . Division Bench Order also clarified that the earlier Hon'ble Apex

 Court order only pertained to the Trade Dress earlier used by

 Dabur and not the word 'GLUCOSE-D'. Thus, reliance is placed

 of
 judgment of Single Judge of Calcutta High Court in Heinz Italia

 Vs Dabur India Ltd decided on 20.2.2008. 58.
 rt
 On the basis of afore submissions learned counsel

 for the Defendant contended that the present suit alongwith the

 interim application be dismissed. Rebuttal arguments on behalf of the Plaintiff 59. Mr. Natraj, learned counsel submitted that mandatory

 nature of pre-litigation mediation has to be assessed based on

 the averments in the plaint and documents filed therewith. The

 Defendant has not even filed any application under Order VII

 Rule 11(d) CPC , which would have been the proper course had

 such an objection existed. 60. While relying upon Midas Hygiene v. Sudhir Bhatia and Laxmikant Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah 2004 (3) SCC 90,

 learned counsel submitted that delay or procedural lapses do not ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 40 2025:HHC:37871

 defeat an injunction where continuing infringement exists. Contrary to what defendant submitted, Midas (supra) is on delay

 . not defeating interim injunction in trademark cases. Relevant

 para of the judgment is reproduced as under: rt 61. It was stated that defendant's claim that 'Glucose-D'

 and 'Glucose-C' are both generic and descriptive is self- contradictory. Mr. Natraj submitted that generic mark is one

 where due to non-assertion, it has become common to the trade,

 thus, in effect the trade mark rights are lost due to non-assertion

 and failure to enforce. A descriptive term is term that describes

 the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value or other

 characteristics of the goods or services of the product. By

 definition a descriptive term cannot be registered as a trademark. Additionally, most third-party users relied upon by defendants

 are either injuncted or have settled with plaintiff (e.g., Rasna). It

 was also stated that defendant's reliance on purported third

 party transfer registrations for 'Glucose-D' is self-defeating if ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 41 2025:HHC:37871

 reliance is placed on registrations by the Trade Mark Registry,

 surely the mark cannot be descriptive. . 62. Mr. Natraj submitted that defendant's objection to the

 CA Certificate is untenable. While placing reliance upon

 judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Brihan Karan Sugar

 of
 Syndicate (P) Ltd. v. Yashwantrao Mohite Krushna Sahakari

 Sakhar Karkhana , (2024) 2 SCC 577, he submitted that a CA
 rt
 certificate is sufficient at the prima facie stage. Its evidentiary

 value is tested at trial, not at the interlocutory stage. 63. Moreover, multiple judicial precedents have

 recognized 'Glucon-D' as a well-known mark enjoying immense

 goodwill and distinctiveness acquired over nine decades. Thus,

 goodwill stands established for interim purposes. 64. Mr. Natraj also submitted that the assertion that

 'Rock-ON' is the principal mark is contradicted by defendant's

 packaging itself since 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' appear ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 42 2025:HHC:37871

 prominently in large stylized fonts identical to plaintiff's in same

 letter, colour scheme, and placement, while 'Rock-ON' appears

 . in much smaller print. 65. He submitted that reliance on 1975 Registry

 correspondence and disclaimers is misplaced as disclaimers

 of
 made during examination are irrelevant to infringement or

 passing off proceedings. ( Registrar v. Ashok Chandra , AIR
 rt
 1955 SC 109 (para 9); Godfrey Philips v. Girnar , (1998) 9 SCC

 531 (paras 5-7); Procter & Gamble v. Endolabs , 2000 (3) Mh

 LJ) (paras 6,7,12); Takkar (India) Tea Company v. Soongachi

 Tea Industries (p) Ltd, 2010 SCCOnLine Del 2723 (para 16). It

 does not mean that 'C' or 'D' are to be ignored while comparing

 marks. The comparison must be of the marks as whole. Reliance

 is placed upon judgment of Delhi High Court in Zydus v. Cipla ,

 2023 SCCOnLine Del 3785 decided on 03.07.2023, relevant

 paras of which are reproduced as under: 182. I do not agree. The disclaimer, by plaintiff, of the suffixes "C" and
 "D", only means that the plaintiff cannot plead infringement against the
 defendants solely on the ground that the defendants' mark also uses the
 suffixes "C" and "D". The suffixes "C" and "D", therefore, cannot be a ba- 2025:HHC:37871

 sis to claim exclusivity, so as to allege infringement by the mark of another
 person. The disclaimer of exclusivity in respect of the suffixes "C" and "D"
 does not, however, mean that, while comparing the marks of the plaintiff

 . and the defendants, the said suffixes would be left out of consideration. It

 is well settled that the marks have to be compared as wholes. While com-
 paring the marks as wholes, the suffixes "C" and "D", though disclaimed,
 have also to be taken into consideration. The court cannot, therefore, re- strict its examination to assessing similarity between "Glucon" and "Gluco"
 as Mr. Sibal would seek to urge. The comparison has necessarily to be be-
 tween "Glucon-C" and "Glucon-D" on the one hand and "Gluco-C" and
 "Gluco-D" on the other." of 66. With regard to 'Glucon-C', learned counsel argued
 rt
 that it remains a valid, subsisting registration. No rectification has

 been filed under Section 47 , hence, all rights under Section 28(1) subsist. Moreover, 'Glucon-C' has been reintroduced recently

 and even if temporarily discontinued, residual goodwill entitles it

 to protection under the Act. 67. He further submitted that as held in judgment of

 Mysore High Court in Products vs. J.P. & Co. , 1972 (1) SCC

 618, minor differences do not detract from overall deceptive

 similarity when broad and essential features are similar and

 identical. The same reasoning applies here for 'Glucon-D' and

 'Glucon-C' and 'Glucose-D' and 'Glucose-C' are deceptively

 similar in visuals and pronunciation. Relevant para is the

 judgment is reproduced as under: by side to find out if there are any differences in the design and if so,

 whether they are of such character as to prevent one design from being
 mistaken for the other. It would be enough if the impugned mark bears
 such an overall similarity to the registered mark as would be likely to
 mislead a person usually dealing with one to accept the other if offered to
 him. In this case we find that the packets are practically of the same size,

 the colour scheme of the two wrappers is almost the same; the design on
 both though not identical bears such a close resemblance that one can
 essily be mistaken for the other. The essential features of both are that
 there is a girl with one arm raised and carrying something in the other

 of
 with a cow or cows near her and hens or chickens in the foreground. In
 the background there is a farm house with a fence. The word "Gluco
 Biscuits" in one and "Glucose Biscuits" on the other occupy a prominent
 place at the top with a good deal of similarity between the two writings.
 Anyone in our opinion who has a look at one of the packets today may
 rt
 easily mistake the other if shown on another day as being the same article
 which he had seen before. If one was not careful enough to note the
 peculiar features of the wrapper on the plaintiffs' goods, he might easily
 mistake the defendants' wrapper for the plaintiffs' if shown to him some

 time after he had seen the plaintiffs'. After all, an ordinary purchaser is not
 gifted with the powers of observation of a Sherlock Homes. We have
 therefore no doubt that the defendants' wrapper is deceptively similar to
 the plaintiffs' which was registered. We do not think it necessary to refer
 to the decisions referred to at the bar as in our view each case will have to

 be judged on its own features and it would be of no use to note on how
 many points there was similarity and in how many others there was
 absence of it." Analysis 68. Before this Court goes on to decide the present application

 after hearing the both the learned counsel for the paries at

 length, it would be apt to take note of recent judgment of Hon'ble

 Apex Court in Pernod Ricard India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Karanveer Singh Chhabra, Civil Appeal No. 10638 of 2025,

 decided on 14 August 2025 in relation to grant of interim

 injunction. In this recent ruling, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

 clarified the criteria for granting interim injunctions in cases of ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 45 2025:HHC:37871

 trademark infringement and passing off, relevant para of the

 judgment is as under: 31.1. A registered trademark is infringed when a person, in the
 course of trade, uses a mark that is identical or deceptively
 similar to a registered trademark in relation to similar goods or
 services. Section 2(1)(h) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 defines
 'deceptively similar' to mean 'a mark shall be deemed to be

 deceptively similar to another mark if it so nearly resembles
 that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion'.
 31.2. Whether a trade mark is likely to deceive or cause
 confusion is a question of fact. Courts have consistently held

 that the broad and essential features of the rival marks must
 be considered. The assessment focuses on visual

 appearance, phonetic similarity, the nature of the goods, the
 class of purchasers, and the manner of sale.
 31.3. As held in Parker - Knoll Ltd v. Knoll International
 Ltd.23, proof of an intention to deceive is not required; a

 likelihood of confusion is sufficient to establish infringement or
 passing off. The evaluation must be made from the standpoint
 of an average consumer with imperfect recollection,
 emphasizing the overall commercial impression rather than
 engaging in a minute or mechanical comparison.
 31.4. The strength of a trademark lies in its inherent
 distinctiveness or the distinctiveness acquired through use.
 Invented or coined marks - such as Kodak or Solio - are
 inherently distinctive and command the highest degree of
 protection. These marks immediately signify the commercial
 origin of the goods or services. In contrast, descriptive marks - such as Air India, Mother Dairy, HMT, Windows,
 Doordarshan, LIC, and SBI - are not inherently distinctive and ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 46 2025:HHC:37871

 must acquire secondary meaning in the minds of the public to
 qualify for protection. That is, the public must come to
 associate the mark with a particular source. Similarly,

 . geographical terms like Simla or Liverpool, or generic trade

 terms, are generally not registrable unless they have acquired
 distinctiveness through long and exclusive use. The more
 distinctive a mark - whether inherently or through acquired
 reputation - the stronger its position in infringement or passing

 off actions. 31.5. In the case of composite marks - those contained
 multiple elements, such as words and logos - the overall

 of
 impression created by the mark is relevant. However,
 proprietors cannot claim exclusive rights over individual
 components, particularly, non-distinctive or descriptive
 elements. Courts have often required disclaimers of such
 generic parts at the time of registration. For instance, in
 rt
 Tungabhadra Industries Ltd v. Registrar of Trade Marks, the
 registration of "Diamond T" in a diamond-shaped logo was
 granted, but the word "Diamond" was required to be

 disclaimed due to its non-distinctiveness.
 31.6. Short marks, especially those consisting of two-letter or
 minimal-character combinations, are treated cautiously. These
 are often considered non-distinctive, because they tend to
 resemble abbreviations, product codes, or alphanumeric

 references - especially in industries such as textiles,
 chemicals and machinery. Unless secondary meaning is
 clearly demonstrated, such marks may be refused registration. However, courts have recognized exceptions for arbitrary or
 invented short marks that are not commonly used in the
 relevant trade - particularly in sectors like food and

 beverages, where even brief combinations can act as unique
 identifiers of origin. 31.7. Colour combinations are treated similarly to single

 colours combined with other distinctive elements. A specific
 combination of colours may be prima facie registrable
 depending on its manner of presentation. For example,
 colours used within a defined geometric shape may qualify for
 registration. Where colours are applied to packaging or labels,
 the burden of proving acquired distinctiveness is higher. In
 such cases, the proprietor must show that the colour scheme
 functions as a badge of origin. Ultimately, trademark law
 seeks to protect indicators of source - both inherently and
 through acquired distinctiveness - which were previously
 protectable only through the more demanding process of a
 passing off action. 31.8. Trade dress, encompassing the overall visual
 appearance of a product - including packaging, layout, colour ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 47 2025:HHC:37871

 schemes, and graphics - also enjoys protection. Indian courts
 have recognized that a deceptively similar trade dress, even in
 the absence of a word mark, may mislead consumers and

 . constitute passing off, particularly where visual cues trigger

 brand association and market confusion.
 31.9. Applying the foregoing principles to the present case, we
 are not persuaded that the respondent's mark is deceptively
 similar to the appellants' registered trademarks, when viewed

 in totality. The appellants' marks - 'BLENDERS PRIDE',
 'IMPERIAL BLUE', and 'SEAGRAM'S' - are inherently
 distinctive. By contrast, the respondent's mark 'LONDON

 of
 PRIDE' uses the term 'PRIDE' in a distinct commercial context
 and overall presentation. The term 'PRIDE' being a common
 and laudatory expression, cannot be claimed exclusively in
 isolation. Although both parties' trade dress and colour
 schemes feature elements of blue and gold, such similarities
 rt
 are insufficient to establish deceptive similarity. The
 placement of elements, design of labels, font styles, and
 emblems differ in material respects. Viewed holistically, the

 competing marks do not create such an overall resemblance
 as is likely to cause confusion or deception in the mind of an
 average consumer exercising imperfect recollection.
 (B) RULE OF ANTI-DISSECTION 32. A foundational principle in trademark law is that marks

 must be compared as a whole, and not by dissecting them
 into individual components. This is known as the anti-
 dissection rule, which reflects the real-world manner in which

 consumers perceive trademarks - based on their overall
 impression, encompassing appearance, sound, structure, and
 commercial impression. In Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma

 v. Navratna Pharmaceuticals Laboratories (supra), this Court
 underscored that the correct test for trademark infringement is
 whether, when considered in its entirety, the defendant's mark

 is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's registered mark. The
 Court expressly cautioned against isolating individual parts of
 a composite mark, as such an approach disregard how
 consumers actually experience and recall trademarks.
 32.1. While Section 17 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 restricts
 exclusive rights to the trademark as a whole and does not
 confer protection over individual, nondistinctive components
 per se, courts may still identify dominant or essential features
 within a composite mark to assess the likelihood of confusion.
 However, this does not permit treating such features in
 isolation; rather, they must be evaluated in the context of the
 overall commercial impression created by the mark.
 32.2. This approach finds further support in the observations
 of scholars such as McCarthy in Trademarks and Unfair ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 48 2025:HHC:37871

 Competition, who note that consumers seldom engage in
 detailed, analytical comparisons of competing marks.
 Purchasing decisions are instead based on imperfect

 . recollection and the general impression created by a mark's

 sight, sound, and structure. The anti-dissection rule thus
 aligns the legal test for infringement with the actual behaviour
 and perception of consumers in the marketplace.
 32.3. Consequently, in disputes involving composite marks,

 the mere presence of a shared or generic word in both marks
 does not, by itself, justify a finding of deceptive similarity.
 Courts must undertake a holistic comparison examining

 of
 visual, phonetic, structural, and conceptual elements, to
 assess whether the overall impression created by the rival
 marks is likely to mislead an average consumer of ordinary
 intelligence and imperfect memory. If the marks, viewed in
 totality, convey distinct identities, the use of a common
 rt
 element - particularly if it is descriptive or laudatory - will not
 by itself amount to infringement. 32.4. In the present case, the appellants' attempt to isolate the

 word 'PRIDE' as the basis of comparison is legally untenable.
 Trademark similarity must be assessed by considering the
 mark as a whole, and not by extracting a single component for
 comparison. When viewed in their entirety, the appellants'
 marks - 'BLENDERS PRIDE', 'IMPERIAL BLUE', and

 'SEAGRAM'S' - are structurally, phonetically, and visually
 distinct from the respondent's mark 'LONDON PRIDE'. The
 mere presence of the common word 'PRIDE' which is a

 generic and laudatory term, does not render the competing
 marks deceptively similar in the absence of an overall
 resemblance. Thus, under the anti-dissection rule, no case for

 infringement or passing off is made out. (C) DOMINANT FEATURE TEST 33. In determining whether a mark is deceptively similar to

 another, courts often consider the dominant feature of the
 mark - that is, the element which is most distinctive,
 memorable, and likely to influence consumer perception.
 While the anti-dissection rule requires marks to be compared
 in their entirety, courts may still place emphasis on certain
 prominent or distinguishing elements, especially where such
 features significantly contribute to the overall commercial
 impression of the mark. 33.1. The principles of the anti-dissection rule and the
 dominant feature test, though seemingly in tension, are not
 mutually exclusive. Identifying a dominant feature can serve
 as an analytical aid in the holistic comparison of marks. In
 certain cases, an infringing component may overshadow the
 remainder of the mark to such an extent that confusion or ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 49 2025:HHC:37871

 deception becomes virtually inevitable. In such instances,
 courts - while maintaining a contextual and fact-specific
 inquiry - may justifiably assign greater weight to the dominant

 . element. However, emphasis on a dominant feature alone

 cannot be determinative; the ultimate test remains whether the
 mark, viewed as a whole, creates a deceptive similarity likely
 to mislead an average consumer of ordinary intelligence and
 imperfect recollection. 33.2. An analogy that aptly illustrates the significance of a
 dominant element in a composite mark is that of mixing milk
 and water. If a small quantity of milk is added to a half-glass of

 of
 water, the mixture becomes cloudy - the change is
 perceptible, but the dominant character remains watery.
 Conversely, if the same amount of water is added to a half-
 glass of milk, the result still appears to be milk - the dilution is
 imperceptible. Though the components are the same, the
 rt
 perceptual impact differs, depending on which element
 dominates. Similarly, in trademark analysis, the presence of
 common elements across marks does not automatically

 indicate a likelihood of confusion. What matters is the relative
 prominence and distinctiveness of the elements. Just as the
 milk in the second example visually and qualitatively
 overwhelms the water, a dominant feature in a mark can
 subsume other components and shape consumer perception. Therefore, while assessing deceptive similarity, due weight
 must be given to the dominant element, without disregarding
 the composite nature of the mark. 33.3. The dominant feature of a mark is typically identified
 based on factors such as its visual and phonetic prominence,
 placement within the mark (with initial components often

 carrying greater perceptual weight), inherent distinctiveness,
 and the degree of consumer association it has generated. The
 dominant element functions as the "hook" that captures the

 consumer's attention and facilitates brand recall. For instance,
 in composite marks such as 'BLENDERS PRIDE' or
 'IMPERIAL BLUE', the terms 'BLENDERS' and 'IMPERIAL'
 may be regarded as dominant, owing to their distinctive and
 less frequently used character. In contrast, elements such as
 'PRIDE' or 'BLUE' are relatively generic, descriptive, or
 commonplace in the liquor industry, as evidenced by other
 marks like ROCKFORD PRIDE, ROYAL PRIDE, or OAK
 PRIDE. Such shared or nondistinctive terms cannot be
 monopolized, unless it is established that they have acquired
 secondary meaning through extensive and exclusive use, and
 are uniquely associated with the plaintiff's goods in the minds
 of the public. 2025:HHC:37871

 33.4. In the present case, the appellants contend that the
 respondent's use of the mark 'LONDON PRIDE' infringes their
 marks 'BLENDERS PRIDE' and 'IMPERIAL BLUE'. However,

 . upon a holistic comparison, the overall commercial impression

 of 'LONDON PRIDE' is substantially different from either of
 the appellants' marks. The trade dress, label design, colour
 scheme, typography, and brand presentation are all distinctive
 and unrelated. Moreover, the term 'LONDON' introduces a

 geographical identifier that conveys a distinct brand identity,
 divergent from 'BLENDERS' or 'IMPERIAL'. The respondent's
 mark, therefore, does not imitate the dominant features of the

 of
 appellants' marks. As such, there exists no real likelihood of
 confusion or false association in the mind of an average
 consumer exercising ordinary caution and imperfect
 recollection. (D) NO EXCLUSIVE RIGHT OVER COMMON
 OR DESCRIPTIVE TERMS
 rt 34. It is a well-established principle of trademark law that
 generic, descriptive, or laudatory terms - particularly those
 commonly used in a given trade - cannot be monopolized by

 any one proprietor. Even where such terms form part of a
 registered trademark, protection does not extend to those
 elements per se unless it is affirmatively shown that they have
 acquired secondary meaning - i.e., that the term has come to
 be exclusively and distinctively associated with the plaintiff's

 goods in the perception of the consuming public.
 34.1. In Godfrey Philips India Ltd v. Girnar Food & Beverages
 Pvt. Ltd. 25, this Court unequivocally held that descriptive

 words denoting the character or quality of goods are not
 capable of exclusive appropriation, except where they have
 acquired distinctiveness through prolonged, continuous, and

 exclusive use. 34.2. The word 'PRIDE' is a laudatory and commonly used
 English term, typically employed to suggest notions of

 excellence, heritage, or national identity. Within the alcoholic
 beverages industry, it is extensively used as part of various
 trademarks. Judicial notice may be taken of multiple
 registrations under Class 33 - such as McDowell's Pride,
 Highland Pride, Royal Pride, and Pride of India - all
 incorporating the term 'PRIDE'. This widespread usage
 illustrates that the word is publici juris, not inherently
 distinctive, and therefore incapable of exclusive appropriation
 in the absence of compelling evidence of secondary meaning.
 34.3. The appellants' mark 'BLENDERS PRIDE' is a
 composite trademark, comprising the suggestive term
 'BLENDERS' - alluding to the craft of blending spirits - and
 the laudatory word 'PRIDE'. By contrast, the respondent's
 mark 'LONDON PRIDE', couples a geographical term with the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 51 2025:HHC:37871

 same non-distinctive word 'PRIDE'. The mere presence of a
 shared generic or descriptive element is insufficient, by itself,
 to support a claim of deceptive similarity. . 34.4. In Cadila Health Care Ltd. v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals

 Ltd. (supra), this Court reaffirmed that deceptive similarity
 must be assessed holistically, taking into account factors such
 as the nature of the marks, the class of purchasers, mode of
 purchase, and the overall circumstances surrounding the

 trade. 34.5. In the present case, the appellants have failed to
 produce cogent evidence - such as consumer surveys, brand

 of
 recognition studies, or consistent third-party references - to
 demonstrate that the term 'PRIDE' has acquired secondary
 meaning exclusively pointing to their product. Mere duration of
 use, turnover, or marketing expenditure is insufficient to
 displace the term's inherent descriptive or laudatory character. rt
 As judicial precedent makes clear, even extensive use of a
 descriptive term does not justify exclusivity unless such use
 has displaced the word's primary meaning, so that it now

 serves as a source identifier in the minds of the consuming
 public. 34.6. Applying the settled legal principles, it is evident that the
 marks 'BLENDERS PRIDE' and 'LONDON PRIDE' are
 visually, phonetically, and conceptually distinct. The

 appellants cannot assert monopoly over the common term
 'PRIDE', and no actionable similarity arises merely from its
 use in the respondent's mark. In the absence of demonstrable

 confusion or misrepresentation, the respondent's use does not
 amount to infringement under Section 29 nor does it constitute
 passing off. (E) AVERAGE CONSUMER TEST AND IMPERFECT
 RECOLLECTION 35. The average consumer test is a central standard in

 trademark and unfair competition law. It assesses whether
 there exists a likelihood of confusion between two marks, or
 whether a mark lacks distinctiveness or is merely descriptive.
 The test is grounded in the perception of the average
 consumer - a person who is reasonably well-informed,
 observant, and circumspect, but not an expert or overly
 analytical. As held by the European Court of Justice in Lloyd
 Schuhfabrik Meyer v. Klijsen Handel BV26, the average
 consumer forms an overall impression of a mark rather than
 dissecting it into individual components.
 35.1. A key feature of this test is the recognition that
 consumers rarely recall trademarks with perfect accuracy. For
 example, this Court in Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satyadeo
 Gupta (supra) emphasized that the comparison must be made ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 52 2025:HHC:37871

 from the perspective of a person of average intelligence and
 imperfect recollection. Thus, minor phonetic or visual
 similarities may cause confusion if the marks share prominent

 . or memorable features. The test also considers that the

 degree of consumer attentiveness may vary depending on the
 nature of the goods: greater care may be exercised when
 purchasing luxury items than in the case of everyday
 consumer goods. 35.2. The test is equally relevant to both inherent and
 acquired distinctiveness. A mark has inherent distinctiveness
 if, by its very form and appearance, it identifies trade origin to

 of
 the average consumer at the time of registration. A mark may
 acquire distinctiveness if, through consistent and prolonged
 use, it becomes associated by a significant portion of the
 relevant public with a particular commercial source - even if
 the consumer cannot name the source precisely. What
 rt
 matters is not that the consumer knows the producer, but that
 the mark serves as an indicator of origin.
 35.3. However, the test has limitations. In cases involving

 product shapes or designs, where the features serve a
 technical function or add substantial value, policy
 considerations may override consumer perception. While the
 average consumer may identify the essential characteristics of
 a product's shape or configuration, their opinion is not

 determinative in assessing registrability, especially where
 legal prohibitions against functional or aesthetic monopolies
 come into play. 35.4. The doctrine of imperfect recollection, closely linked to
 the average consumer test, emphasizes the importance of first
 impression. Courts have cautioned against overly technical or

 granular comparisons of trademarks [See: James Crossley
 Eno v. William George Dunn27 and Aristoc Ltd v. Rysta
 Ltd,28 ]. Instead, they have favoured realistic assessments

 that account for hazy memory, indistinct pronunciation, and
 fleeting visual impressions. Notably, invented or fanciful words
 are generally more difficult to recall than common or
 descriptive (House of Lords) ones, and distinctive features are
 more likely to be retained in the consumer's memory.
 35.5. The foundational test for assessing deceptive similarity
 remains the Pianotist Test, as laid down in Pianotist Co. Ltd's
 Application29 by Justice Parker. Indian courts continue to
 apply this holistic standard, which requires consideration of
 the visual and phonetic similarity of the marks, the nature of
 the goods, the class of consumers, and all surrounding
 circumstances. Justice Parker framed the test as follows: of
 35.6. This multifactorial framework complements the modern
 average consumer test, ensuring that the analysis of
 deceptive similarity remains practical and context-sensitive. It
 focuses on the overall commercial impression left by the
 marks, rather than conducting a mechanical or analytical
 rt
 breakdown. Indian courts have consistently adopted this
 approach in determining the likelihood of confusion in both
 infringement and passing off actions. 35.7. Applying these principles, it becomes evident that the
 rival marks are not deceptively similar. The appellants'
 trademarks - 'BLENDERS PRIDE', 'IMPERIAL BLUE', and
 'SEAGRAM'S' - convey distinct commercial impressions,
 when compared with the respondent's mark 'LONDON

 PRIDE'. The overall visual appearance, phonetic structure,
 and trade dress - though sharing some generic elements
 such as use of blue and gold - are sufficiently different. These

 structural and conceptual dissimilarities between the marks
 outweigh any incidental similarities, negating the likelihood of
 confusion in the mind of a consumer of average intelligence

 and imperfect recollection. (F) LEGAL PRINCIPLES GOVERNING GRANT OF
 INJUNCTION 36. The Trade Marks Act, 1999 does not prescribe any rigid or
 exhaustive criteria for determining whether a mark is likely to
 deceive or cause confusion. Each case must necessarily be
 decided on its own facts and circumstances, with judicial
 precedents serving to illuminate the applicable tests and
 guiding principles rather than to dictate outcomes.
 36.1. As a general rule, a proprietor whose statutory or
 common law rights are infringed is entitled to seek an
 injunction to restrain further unlawful use. However, this
 remedy is not absolute. The considerations governing the
 grant of injunctions in trademark infringement actions broadly
 apply to passing off claims as well. That said, a fundamental
 distinction remains: while a registered proprietor may, upon
 proving infringement, seek to restrain all use of the infringing ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 54 2025:HHC:37871

 mark, a passing off action does not by itself confer an
 exclusive right. In appropriate cases, the court may mould
 relief in passing off so as to permit continued use by the

 . defendant, provided it does not result in misrepresentation or

 deception. 36.2. The grant of injunction - whether for infringement or
 passing off - is ultimately governed by equitable principles
 and is subject to the general framework applicable to

 proprietary rights. Where actual infringement is established,
 that alone may justify injunctive relief; a plaintiff is not
 expected to wait for further acts of defiance. As judicially

 of
 observed, "the life of a trademark depends upon the
 promptitude with which it is vindicated."
 36.3. The principles laid down in American Cyanamid Co. v.
 Ethicon Ltd continue to guide the Courts while determining
 interim injunction applications in trademark cases. The
 rt
 following criteria are generally applied: 36.4. In conclusion, the grant of an interim injunction in
 trademark matters requires the court to consider multiple
 interrelated factors: prima facie case, likelihood of confusion, ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 55 2025:HHC:37871

 relative merits of the parties' claims, balance of convenience,
 risk of irreparable harm, and the public interest. These
 considerations operate cumulatively, and the absence of any

 . one of these may be sufficient to decline interim relief." 69. From the aforesaid exposition of law it is clear that

 each case must necessarily be decided on its own facts and

 circumstances however, the Court, while exercising its discretion

 of
 to grant or refuse an interim injunction, must be guided by well- settled equitable principles. The Court is required to examine
 rt
 whether a prima facie case exists, whether there is a likelihood

 of confusion or deception, and whether the balance of

 convenience lies in favour of the plaintiff. It must also consider

 whether the plaintiff would suffer irreparable harm if the

 injunction is not granted, and whether the grant or refusal of such

 relief would serve the larger public interest. These factors are not

 to be viewed in isolation but collectively, as part of a holistic

 assessment. The absence of any one of these essential

 ingredients may be sufficient to disentitle a party to interim relief,

 and the Court must, therefore, weigh all circumstances carefully

 to ensure that the injunction, if granted, is fair, just, and

 proportionate. 2025:HHC:37871 70. It is settled law that generic and commonly

 descriptive marks cannot be exclusive to the proprietor of the

 . registered trademark. Section 30 of the Act provides for limits on

 the effect of registered trademark when the use is in relation

 indicates kind, quality, intended purpose value, geographical

 of
 origin, the time if production of goods or rendering of services or

 other characteristics of the good/services. As per Section
 rt
 30(2)(a) of the Act, where a mark or expression is indicative of

 the kind, quality, or other characteristics of the goods, it falls

 outside the scope of trademark infringement. For the sake of

 convenience, Section 30 of the Act is reproduced as under: or in any other circumstances, to which, having

 regard to those conditions or limitations, the
 registration does not extend; (c)the use by a person of a trade mark--(i)in
 relation to goods connected in the course of

 trade with the proprietor or a registered user of
 the trade mark if, as to those goods or a bulk or
 which they form part, the registered proprietor or

 of
 the registered user conforming to the permitted
 use has applied the trade mark and has not
 subsequently removed or obliterated it, or has at
 any time expressly or impliedly consented to the
 rt use of the trade mark; or(ii)in relation to services
 to which the proprietor of such mark or of a
 registered user conforming to the permitted use
 has applied the mark, where the purpose and

 effect of the use of the mark is to indicate, in
 accordance with the fact, that those services
 have been performed by the proprietor or a
 registered user of the mark; (d)the use of a trade mark by a person in relation

 to goods adapted to form part of, or to be
 accessory to, other goods or services in relation
 to which the trade mark has been used without

 infringement of the right given by registration
 under this Act or might for the time being be so
 used, if the use of the trade mark is reasonably

 necessary in order to indicate that the goods or
 services are so adapted, and neither the
 purpose nor the effect of the use of the trade

 mark is to indicate, otherwise than in accordance
 with the fact, a connection in the course of trade
 between any person and the goods or services,
 as the case may be; (e)the use of a registered trade mark, being one
 of two or more trade marks registered under this
 Act which are identical or nearly resemble each
 other, in exercise of the right to the use of that
 trade mark given by registration under this Act.
 (3)Where the goods bearing a registered trade mark
 are lawfully acquired by a person, the sale of the goods
 in the market or otherwise dealing in those goods by
 that person or by a person claiming under or through
 him is not infringement of a trade by reason only of-- 2025:HHC:37871 (a)the registered trade mark having been
 assigned by the registered proprietor to some
 other person, after the acquisition of those

 . goods; or (b)the goods having been put on the market
 under the registered trade mark by the proprietor
 or with his consent. (4)Sub-section (3) shall not apply where there exists

 legitimate reasons for the proprietor to oppose further
 dealings in the goods in particular, where the condition
 of the goods, has been changed or impaired after they

 of
 have been put on the market." 71. Since the defendant's product contains both 'glucose'

 and 'Vitamin D' and seems to be an honest descriptive use of the
 rt
 main ingredient of the product, it cannot be said to infringe the

 registered trademark of the plaintiff. The term 'glucose' being the

 key ingredient of the product serves merely as a descriptive

 indication of its nature and composition. 72. In Lotus Herbals (P) Ltd. v. DPKA Universal

 Consumer Ventures (P) Ltd. , 2024 SCC OnLine Del 498,

 decided on 25.01.2024, plaintiff claimed to be the proprietor of

 trademark 'lotus' and was seeking injunction against the use of

 the said trademark. Hon'ble Apex Court held there was no

 dispute over the fact that in defendant's product, one of the key

 ingredients in the face wash is 'lotus extract' which is

 underscored by the description on the bottle. The Hon'ble Court

 held that 'the indicator, in an indicative mark, may be one of the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 59 2025:HHC:37871

 words forming part of the mark, but so long as the word is a

 reasonably prominent part of the mark, its use may render the

 . entire mark indicative.' Lotus Splash in its entirety is inherently

 indicative of both the main aspect of the product and its

 characteristics as a face wash. Thus, the court ruled that

 of
 defendant had not infringed plaintiff's mark 'Lotus'. Similarly, in

 the case at hand, this court is of the view that defendant's use of
 rt
 the term 'glucose' and 'vitamin-D/C' is purely descriptive of the

 essential ingredient and characteristic of the product. Relevant

 paras of Lotus Herbals (supra) are reproduced hereinafter: . 73. Similarly, in Yatra Online v. Mach Conferences and

 Events, 2025 DHC 7167, decided on 22.08.2025, Delhi High

 Court ruled against Yatra Online (plaintiff), holding that the

 disputed 'Yatra' mark was both generic and descriptive and,

 of
 more importantly, carried a disclaimer that expressly denied the

 Plaintiff any exclusive rights over the word 'Yatra'. Although it is
 rt
 not the attempt of this Court to state that 'Glucon' is a generic

 term, but it is of definite view that 'glucose' and 'vitamin-D' are

 generic words, common to the trade and indicative of essential

 ingredients of the product. Consequently, the use of the terms

 'glucose' and 'Vitamin D', which together form the defendant's

 product 'Glucose-D', constitutes a descriptive reference of

 product's composition. Therefore, such use cannot grant plaintiff

 any exclusive proprietary right, and in the interim it cannot

 constitute trademark infringement. In this regard, reliance is

 place upon Panacea Biotech Ltd. V. Recon Ltd , 1996 SCC

 OnLine Del 508, relevant para is as under: 74. The Defendant has shown that multiple traders such

 as Dabur, Rasna, and others have long used similar terms and

 of
 packaging for identical glucose-based products. This establishes

 that the word 'Glucose-D' and its variants are common to the
 rt
 trade, reducing the Plaintiff's claim. As held in Corn Products

 Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , AIR 1960 SC

 142, where a common element is widely used in the market,

 consumers learn to distinguish products by their other distinctive

 features, not by the shared element. Relevant para is as under: 75. Scope of protection must also be considered in light

 of the Plaintiff's own disclaimers and admissions before the ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 62 2025:HHC:37871

 Registrar, acknowledging that 'Gluco' and 'Glucose' are

 descriptive and common to trade. Plaintiff had submitted before

 . the Registrar that since the product is a glucose based product

 'Gluco' is common to trade for glucose-based product and this

 admission was duly recorded by the Assistant Registrar of Trade

 of
 Marks in his order dated 03.03.1978. 76. High Court of Delhi in Wow Momo Foods P. Ltd. V.
 rt
 Wow Burger, 2025 DHC 8044 has observed that while

 examining the matter at a prima facie interlocutory stage, any

 admission made by either party which is destructive to the case

 that it seeks to canvass has to be taken into consideration by

 court while passing orders under under Order XXXIX Rules 1

 and 2 CPC . At prima facie stage admission would operate

 against the party making it. Therefore, by not placing its own

 stand in front of registrar, plaintiff disentitled itself from grant of

 discretionary relief under under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2. In this regard, reliance is placed upon judgment of High Court of
 Bombay at Goa in Phonepe P Ltd. Vs Resilent Innovations ,
 2023 SCC OnLine Bom 764, relevant part of the judgment is as
 under: 77. Reliance is also placed upon Wow Momo Foods P.

 Ltd. V. Wow Burger, 2025 DHC 8044 decided on 12.09.2025,

 relevant paras is as under: rt
 20.07.2022: "The Applicant submits that the objection raised
 under Section 9(l)(a) is not maintainable as the applicants
 submit that their mark is formed by a combination of an

 English dictionary word WOW suffixed with CHINESE."
 (Emphasis supplied) Thus, the Plaintiff on its own showing
 admitted before the Registrar of Trade Marks that the word
 'WOW' alone being an English Dictionary word is not
 distinctive and it is in a combination with another word that it

 would as a composite mark have a distinctive character. In
 view of this stand, Plaintiff cannot contend in these
 proceedings that the word WOW on a standalone basis is a

 distinctive mark. 10.7. The binding effect of admissions made before the
 Registrar of Trademarks, at this prima facie interim stage was

 dealt by this Court in Institute of Directors (supra). The
 relevant paragraph reads as under: 78. High Court at Calcutta in Heinz Italia S.L.R & Anr. V. Dabur India Limited & Others, CS No. 138 of 2003 decided

 on 20.02.2008, (affirmed by Principal Division Bench) held that

 green cardboard and photographs of happy family have been

 used by many manufacturers other than plaintiff. It was held in

 this case that exclusivity by plaintiff can only be claimed over the

 word 'Glucon', the plaintiff is restricted to claim rights over 'D'. Relevant para is as under: 79. This Court would go on to state that words which are

 part of ordinary parlance, fall in category of non-distinctive or

 descriptive marks, incapable of exclusive use by one single

 individual/ entity. Further, words of ordinary English usage also

 cannot be monopolized. In this context, this Court observes that

 under the garb of Section 30(2)(a) , even if such a word is ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 67 2025:HHC:37871

 registered, third parties are entitled to use it honestly and

 descriptively to indicate the nature, quality, or other

 . characteristics of their goods or services. Accordingly, the word

 in question cannot be said to infringe the registered trademark of

 the plaintiff, rather, as already observed, it functions merely as

 of
 descriptive. Therefore, in the opinion of this Court, the Plaintiff

 cannot assert exclusive rights over the expression 'Glucose- rt
 D/C', as it falls squarely within statutory exceptions under 9(1)(a)

 to trademark protection and hence, it cannot be treated as

 distinctive/dominant mark of the plaintiff. 80. Further, the words 'ROCK-ON in capital letters have

 been prominently written on the packing, highlighted in red. As

 per settled law, trade dress or rather the whole thing must be

 seen in its entirety and not parts in isolation. Even though the

 packaging is a carton box in color green, the product if seen as a

 whole, prima facie causes no confusion. Therefore, in my view,

 there was no intention on the part of defendant to play fraud by

 misrepresenting his goods as the goods of the plaintiff. 81. It can be inferred from the anti-dissection rule that the

 approach of isolating individual parts of a composite mark does ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 68 2025:HHC:37871

 not reflect how an average consumer looks at a trademark. Consumers view a mark as a whole, rather than dissecting it. In

 . Pernod Ricard India Pvt. Ltd. v. Frost Falcon Distilleries Ltd.,

 Civil Appeal No. 10638 of 2025, decided on 14.08.2025, the

 Hon'ble Delhi High Court, as noticed above, reaffirmed that,

 of
 while assessing deceptive similarity, the Court must adopt a

 holistic comparison while examining the visual, phonetic,
 rt
 structural, and conceptual aspects of the marks to see if the

 overall impression is likely to mislead or confuse an average

 consumer of ordinary intelligence and imperfect recollection. Applying the aforesaid principle to the facts of the present case,

 this Court is of the view that the products of both the parties must

 be compared as wholes, in accordance with the anti-dissection

 rule. It thus appears to me that overall impression created by the

 defendant's mark does not amount to infringement. The

 resemblance, if any, arises from the use of a descriptive and

 common trade word rather than from any imitation. 82. Afore factors, if taken into consideration, weakens

 the case for grant of injunction at this stage. 2025:HHC:37871 83. With regard to judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Heinz Italia v. Dabur , 2007(6) SCC 1, this Court is of the view

 . that the order of the Supreme Court may not be of any help

 inasmuch as grant of order of injunction to restrain the first

 respondent from using the word 'Glucose-D' as the concluding

 of
 portion of the order makes it clear that the Trial Court would not

 be bound by any observation since it pertained to grant of ad- rt
 interim injunction. Relevant portion of the judgment is as under: 84. Moreover, defendant's products have been in the market

 for over a decade, and the current packaging has been in use for

 more than four years. Plaintiff despite issuing a notice in April

 2023, instituted the present suit in September 2024. Additionally,

 an injunction at this stage would disrupt the defendant's ongoing

 business. Plaintiff's injury, if any, can be adequately

 compensated through damages. On the other hand, an

 injunction would cause disproportionate harm to the Defendant,

 especially where the impugned terms are descriptive and ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS 70 2025:HHC:37871

 commonly used. High Court of Bombay in Kopran Chemical

 Co. Ltd. V. Sigma Laboratories, 1993 SCC OnLine Bom 461

 . has held as under: 85. Similarly, in Parle Products v. JP & Co., (1972) 1

 SCC 618 Hon'ble Apex Court had held that in cases where no

 injunction is granted and the suit is ultimately decreed, the loss

 suffered by plaintiff can be ascertained and he can be

 adequately compensated, but in case where injunction is

 granted, loss ascertained by defendant cannot be calculated. 86. Moreover, defendant is selling the product under its

 own registered mark, 'Rock-On', which is displayed on the

 packaging. The presence of the distinctive mark, even if smaller

 than the product name, is a sufficient to prevent consumer from

 confusion regarding the source. 2025:HHC:37871 87. In my opinion, if the defendant is not injuncted at this

 stage, irreparable injury would not be caused to the plaintiff,

 . rather irreparable loss would be caused to the defendant which

 cannot be compensated in any term. In view of the above

 discussion, this Court is of the opinion that the Plaintiff has not

 of
 established a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction. Respondents are however directed to maintain accounts in
 rt
 respect of sale of the products and to furnish copy of such

 accounts to the plaintiff. Accordingly, the application under Order

 XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC is dismissed. 88. Any observation made herein above shall not be

 construed to be a reflection on the merits of the case and shall

 remain confined to the disposal of the present application alone. (Sandeep Sharma),
 Judge
 November 11, 2025
 (vikrant) ::: Downloaded on - 05/12/2025 21:24:09 :::CIS