(BY SRI B.N.JAGADEESHA, ADDL.SPP FOR R-1)

 THIS WRIT PETITION IS FILED UNDER ARTICLES 226 AND 227 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA READ WITH SECTION 528 OF
BNSS, 2023 PRAYING TO (A) ISSUE A WRIT OF CERTIORARI,
ORDER OR DIRECTION OF APPROPRIATE NATURE QUASHING THE
COMPLAINT AND F.I.R. BOTH DATED 16.01.2026 REGISTERED AS
CRIME NO. 25 OF 2026 BY KORAMANGALA POLICE STATION,
BENGALURU, PENDING ON THE FILE OF PRINCIPAL CITY CIVIL AND
SESSIONS JUDGE (CCH-1), BENGALURU, AS AGAINST PETITIONER
AND ITS DIRECTORS, FOR ALLEGED OFFENCES UNDER SECTIONS
21(1) AND 21(2) OF THE BANNING OF UNREGULATED DEPOSIT
SCHEMES ACT, 2019 (ANNEXURE-A AND B); (B) CONSEQUENTLY,
DECLARE THAT ALL ACTIONS TAKEN PURSUANT TO COMPLAINT
AND F.I.R. BOTH DATED 16.01.2026 REGISTERED AS CRIME NO.
25 OF 2026 BY KORAMANGALA POLICE STATION, BENGALURU, ARE
ILLEGAL, ARBITRARY AND VOID AB INITIO (ANNEXURE-A AND B). 3 THIS WRIT PETITION HAVING BEEN HEARD AND RESERVED
FOR ORDERS ON 21.02.2026, COMING ON FOR PRONOUNCEMENT
THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING:- The 2nd respondent/Police Sub-Inspector is the complainant. 4 Therefore, it is a suo-motu complaint by the State. Petitioner No.1

is one of the Directors of the 4th accused/Company. Accused Nos. 1

and 2 viz., Misbah Ashraf and Sandesh Nahar are not before the

Court. Only the 1stpetitioner/ accused No.3 and the Company have

preferred the subject petition. Thus, all the four are accused in the

subject crime. On 16-01-2026 search warrants were secured and

the office and houses of the accused were searched. The search

yielded certain materials. Those materials form the fulcrum of the

crime in Crime No.25 of 2026. 3.2. Petitioner No.2/Company is co-founded and run by the

1st petitioner as an e-commerce seller of gold. Every transaction by

their customers, notwithstanding the quantum of money involved,

involves a concluded purchase and sale of physical gold bullion. A

separate invoice is generated for every purchase and sale

transaction. Each payment of such purchase and sale is through UPI

and other electronic mode. The ownership and the physical gold

bullion is transferred in favour of the purchaser immediately upon

completion of the transaction. The physical gold bullion is

independently manufactured and sourced from third party entities. 5 The petitioners claim that they do not retain any ownership or

physical possession of the gold bullion upon completion of purchase

by the customers. The costs of storage of gold bullion by third

party vault for the customers and related insurance is borne by

accused No.4/ Company and is a part of the perks offered by the

Company to its customers. It claims to have 250 employees in its

registered office at Koramangala. A mobile application is also

developed, so that the customers can choose to purchase gold

equivalent to the monetary value of their choosing starting from

₹10/-. Upon each purchase, it is invoiced and taxes are paid and

the corresponding equivalent amount of 24 karat of physical gold is

stored in a highly secure, fully insured independent vault managed

by recognized custodian. The petitioners aver in the petition that

they do not deal in electronic gold products but only engage in the

sale of gold that are fully backed by physical bullion. 3.3. On 14-10-2025 the Police officials from the jurisdictional

Koramangala Police Station visit the petitioners and requested one

of the Directors to accompany to answer certain queries about the

business. After answer of the queries, a notice comes to be issued 6 on 17-10-2025 requesting several information and all documents be

placed before them within 24 hours. The petitioners are said to

have sought some information. When reply was not received,

repeated notices started being issued to the petitioners on the kind

of business that they are engaged in. On 18-02-2026 the

jurisdictional Police and the officials of the Crime Investigation

Department, armed with the search warrant, searched the office

premises of the petitioners, the houses of the Directors and seized

several documents viz., hard copies, mobile phones, cordoned of

office premises and issued debit freeze orders against the account

held by the petitioners/Company. All this happened pursuant to

registration of crime in Crime No.25 of 2026. It is this that is called

in question by the Company and its office bearers.

SUBMISSIONS: 4.1. The learned senior counsel Sri K.G. Raghavan appearing

for the petitioners would vehemently contend that the crime

registered against these petitioners for offences punishable under 7 Section 21(1) and (2) of the Act does not get attracted in the case

at all. They do not deal with any deposits, regulated or unregulated.

The purchase done is in digital. It is stored in the vault outside with

a reputed gold storage Company by name Brinks and, therefore,

there is no offence that can be laid against the Company or its

office bearers. The learned senior counsel would emphasize on the

fact that there is not a single depositor who had complained that he

has lost his money for the last 5 years. The Company which was

start up in the year 2021 with zero turnover has grown to a turn

over of ₹4000/- crores today and, therefore, it is investors eye that

has fallen upon the Company and its office bearers. The entire

office is sealed and accounts are frozen for no crime that they have

committed. On suspicion that it may become a crime in future the

State sets the criminal law into motion. If the Act is not attracted

there is no offence that can be investigated by the State. 4.2. The learned senior counsel further submits that there is

no fundamental jurisdictional error or thought or suspicion that

money received by the Company, in the course of sale of gold,

constitute deposit under Section 2(4) of the Act. It is the claim of 8 the learned senior counsel that the Company operates a digital

platform facility, purchase and sale of physical gold, upon payment.

Every bid Company in the gold bullion market does this. If the

petitioners are doing it, he would submit, that it cannot become a

crime. The suo motu complaint is on a third-party e-mail

communication who is a stranger and not a customer of the

Company and has no transaction on the platform, as allegations are

mechanically accepted and criminal law is set into motion. 4.3. The RBI and the SEBI have knowledge that the

petitioners' business does not fall within their domain of regulation.

The business of the petitioners is sale of movable property i.e., gold

which is stored in Brinks India Private Limited. It has all the

necessary staff who would answer the customer call. It is based

upon customers choice, there would be delivery of physical gold. He

would further submit that sale of digital gold is legitimate business

endorsed by Government of India. On all these counts, the learned

senior counsel seeks that the crime be quashed. 9 THE STATE: 5. Per contra, the learned Additional State Public Prosecutor

Sri B.N. Jagadeesha would place on record the entire material

against these petitioners for perusal of the Court. It is his

contention that the crime is under the Act. It must not be let to

problem resulting in huge scam. He would contend if SEBI and RBI

are not regulating who is regulating ₹4,000/- crores business of the

Company, none. Therefore, these unregulated deposits should be

nipped in the bud, failing which, it would lead to become a huge

scam. He would submit that the Act is invoked to register the

crime. A FIR is not an encyclopedia of offence. Any other offence

can spring post investigation. To say that it does not amount to

deposit today and quash the crime would be killing the cause itself.

He would, therefore, submit that investigation at least must be

permitted to be continued, so that the money invested by scores

and scores of people is not looted by these petitioners. 6. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. CONSIDERATION: 7. The afore-narrated facts are a matter of record. Digital

gold or business of sale of gold online is a concept that emerged in

the year 2013 when Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation of

India, a Government of India Company launched a business for sale

of gold/digital gold to customers online. On 17-10-2013 the

Securities and Exchange Board of India ('SEBI') clarified that the

proposed business appears to be only transaction of sale and

purchase of gold and does not qualify as a collective investment

scheme. Long thereafter, genesis of the Company happens. In

2021 the Company launches a mobile application and a website in

the name and style of 'JAR' which enables customers to purchase,

seek delivery and sell back gold at their discretion. The purchase of

gold happens to an amount beginning from ₹10/- and goes on

unlimited. The business of these petitioners which began in 2021

has now flourished into a dramatical figure of ₹4,000/- crores.

When the business was flourishing for 5 years, an electronic mail is

communicated by the Reserve Bank of India. The mail dated

13-10-2025 reads as follows: The electronic mail to all the accused clearly indicated that a

complaint is received, it has several issues against JAR app

mentioning that it is structurally opaque, legally unguaranteed and

behaviorally manipulative and built on a culturally sensitive

commodity (gold). The investors get 30 to 40% referral bonuses

and can stop investing anytime. Such companies are not regulated

by the RBI, but are registered under the Registration of Companies.

It is advised that information be sent to CID of the States and all

the investigating officers. This mail communication is particularly to

the State of Karnataka. The SEBI issues a public notice on

08-11-2025. The public notice reads as follows: It has come to the notice of SEBI that some digital/online platforms
 are offering investors to invest in 'Digital Gold/E-Gold Products'.
 Digital Gold is being marketed as an alternative for investment in
 physical gold. In this context, it is informed that such digital gold products are
 different from SEBI regulated gold products as they are neither
 notified as securities nor regulated as commodity derivatives. They 13 operate entirely outside the purview of SEBI. Such digital gold
 products may entail significant risks for investors and may expose
 investors to counterparty and operational risks.

 Investors/participants are made aware that none of the investor
 protection mechanisms under securities market purview shall be
 available for investments in such Digital Gold/ E-Gold products.

 Mumbai
 November 08, 2025" 8. There are several complaints against this app by the

customers or several citizens. I deem it appropriate to notice one

such observation. It reads as follows: (Emphasis added at each instance)

There are several other observations by several customers about

purported fraud in the app. With all the communications, the Police

ostensibly cannot keep quiet, as every citizen is involved in this and

it has a potential of growing up into a huge problem. Therefore,

suo motu complaint is registered by the Koramangala Police station.

Since the entire issue trigged from the complaint, it is necessary to

notice the entire complaint in its entirety. It reads as follows: ':25/11/2025. 7) Jar Gold Retail Private Limited PÀA¥À¤ ¤zÉÃð±ÀPÀgÀÄUÀ½UÉ zÁR¯ÁwUÀ¼À£ÄÀ ß
 YಾಜರುಪHಸುವಂAೆ ೊhuರುವ ೋh ':26/11/2025. 8) Jar Gold Retail Private Limited ಕಂಪ+ ರವರ !¥ÉèöÊ ಪತ. ':01/12/2025. 9) Jar Gold Retail Private Limited PÀA¥À¤ ¤zÉÃð±ÀPÀgÀÄUÀ½UÉ zÁR¯ÁwUÀ¼À£ÀÄß
 YಾಜರುಪHಸುವಂAೆ ೊhuರುವ ೋh ':04/12/2025. 10) Jar Gold Retail Private Limited ಕಂಪ+ ರವರ !¥ÉèöÊ ಪತ. ':12/12/2025
 & ಸದ!ಯವರು YಾಜರುಪH ರುವ Qಾಖ ಾMಗಳ3. 11) SEBI, Southeren Regional Office, Chennai gÀªÀjUÉ Jar Gold Retail
 Private & Jarfin Retail Private Limited PÀA¥À¤UÀ¼À ¸ÀA§AzsÀ ªÀiÁ»w
 ¤ÃqÀÄªÀAvÉ ಈ;ೕC ಮು ಾಂತರ ೊhuರುವ ೋh ':05/12/2025. 12) ಆZ.[.ಐ hಷo ಸಂಬಂಧ ಆzಾ'ತ ಕಂಪ+ಗಳ )ರುದN ೈ1ೊಳ4ಬಹುQಾದ ಕ.ಮದ ಬ1ೆy
 ಾನೂನು ಸಲYೆ1ಾರ!ಂದ ಅ™zಾ.ಯ ವರ' ೊH ೊಡುವಂAೆ fಾನ ಉಪ ೕ
 ಆಯುಕರು, ಆ1ೆFಯ )Vಾಗ, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ರವ!1ೆ ೋ!ರುವ ಮನ) ':05/12/2025. 21 13) Chief Manager, Investment Management department, SEBI,
 Mumbai gÀªÀjUÉ Jar Gold Retail Private Limited & Jarfin Retail
 Private Limited PÀA¥À¤UÀ¼À ಸಂಬಂಧ fಾbM +ೕಡುವಂAೆ ೊhuರುವ ೋh
 ':08/12/2025. 14) ಆZ.[.ಐ, ಎಂ.ಐ ಯೂ+„ ರವರ ;ೕC ದೂ!ನ ;ೕ ೆ ೈ1ೊಂHರುವ zಾ.ಥ|ಕ
 )pಾರkೆ ಸಂಬಂಧ ವರ'ಯನುF fಾನ ಸYಾಯಕ ೕ ಆಯುಕರು, ಮHGಾಳ ಉಪ
 )Vಾಗ ರವ!1ೆ +Gೇ' ೊಂHರುವ ಪˆರ ':05/12/2025. 15) ಆZ[ಐ ರವ!1ೆ ಈ;ೕC ಮು ಾಂತರ ದೂರು +ೕHದN Lakshminarasimhan
 Santhanam ರವ!1ೆ ಪ.ಕರಣ Qಾಖಲು fಾಡುವ ಸಂಬಂಧ jಾkೆ1ೆ Yಾಜ ಾO Bತ
 ದೂರನುF +ೕಡುವಂAೆ ೊhuರುವ ೋh ':19/12/2025. 16) SEBI gÀªÀgÀ ¥ÀwæPÁ ¥ÀæPÀluÉ PR No.70/2025, ':08/11/2025. 17) fಾನ ಉಪ ೕ ಆಯುಕರು, ಆ1ೆFಯ )Vಾಗ, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ರವರು fಾನ ಾನೂನು
 ಸಲYೆ1ಾರರು, ೕ ಆಯುಕ ರವರ ಕ ೇ!, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ನಗರ ರವ!1ೆ Jar Gold
 Retail Private Limited & Jarfin Retail Private Limited PÀA¥À¤UÀ¼À
 «gÀÄzÀÞ PÁ£ÀÆ£ÀÄ ಕ.ಮ ಜರುOಸಲು ಅ™zಾ.ಯ ವರ' +ೕಡುವಂAೆ ೋ!ರುವ ಮನ)
 ':08/12/2025. 18) fಾನ ಉಪ ೕ ಆಯುಕರು, ಆ1ೆFಯ )Vಾಗ, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ರವರು ಾನೂನು
 ಸಲYೆ1ಾರರು, ೕ ಆಯುಕ ರವರ ಕ ೇ!, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ನಗರ ರವರ ಅ™zಾ.ಯ
 ವರ'ಯನುF ಮುಂ'ನ ಕ.ಮದ ಸಂಬಂಧ ೋರಮಂಗಲ ೕ jಾkೆ1ೆ ಕಳ3b PÉÆnÖgÄÀ ªÀ
 (ಾಪನ ನಂ.¹.Dgï.JA./664/r¹¦(D«)/2025, ':20/12/2025. 19) ಾನೂನು ಸಲYೆ1ಾರರು, ೕ ಆಯುಕ ರವರ ಕ ೇ!, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ನಗರ ರವರು fಾ£Àå
 ಉಪ ೕ ಆಯುಕರು, ಆUÉßÃಯ )Vಾಗ, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ರವ!1ೆ Jar Gold Retail
 Private Limited & Jarfin Retail Private Limited PÀA¥À¤UÀ¼À «gÀÄzÀÞ
 PÁ£ÀÆ£ÀÄ PÀæªÀÄ ೈ1ೊಳ34ವ ಸಂಬಂಧ ೊhuರುವ ಅ™zಾ.ಯ ':17/12/2025. 20) Jar Gold Retail Private Limited ಕಂಪ+ )ರುದ- ಕ.ಮ ೈ1ೊಳ34ªÀAvÉ
 Manager, SEBI, Southern Regional Office gÀªÀgÀÄ »jAiÀÄ C¢üPÁjUÀ½UÉ
 PÀ¼ÀÄ»¹gÀÄªÀ ¥ÀvÀæ £ÀA.SEBI/SRO/P/OW/2025/27057, ':17/10/2025 & F
 ಸಂಬಂಧ ಕ.ಮ ೈ1ೊಳ34ವಂAೆ ಸೂP ರುವ 1)fಾನ ಉಪ ೕ ಆಯುಕರು, ಆUÉßÃAiÀÄ 22 )Vಾಗ, "ೆಂಗಳ%ರು ರವರ (ಾಪನ ನಂ.¹.Dgï.JA./663/r¹¦(D«)/2025,
 ':19/12/2025, 2)fಾನ ೕ ಆಯುಕ ರವರ ಕ ೇ! (ಾಪನ ನಂ.54/ಅಪ ಾಧ-
 4/.¹N¦/2025, ':06/12/2025, 3) ªÀiÁ£Àå ªÀÄºÁ ¤zÉÃð±ÀPÀgÀÄ & DgÀPÀëPÀ ªÀÄºÁ
 +!ೕwಕರು, ಕ ಾ ಟಕ ಾಜ ರವರ ಕ ೇ! ಪತ. ನಂ. ಅಪ ಾಧ-12/45/2025,
 ':11/11/2025." ಈ 'ನ ' ಾಂಕ16/01/2026 ರಂದು "ೆR1ೆy 10:30 ಗಂtೆ1ೆ Tಾ ' PSI-2 g.ೕಕಂjೇ1ೌಡ [.,
 ೊರಮಂಗಲ ೕ jಾkೆ ರವರು +ೕHದ ದೂರನುF ಪxೆದು ದೂ!ನ ;ೕ ೆ1ೆ jಾkಾ n.ಸಂ.
 25/2016 -ಕಲಂ 21( 1 ) ಮತು 21 (2) BUDS Act 2019 !ೕತ ಪ.ಕರಣ Qಾಖ ೊಂHರುAೆ."

The complaint leads to seizure of several materials. All that led the

petitioners to this Court. The contention is that it does not amount

to a deposit under the Act. Section 21 and 22 of the Act reads as

follows: Any deposit taker who contravenes the provisions of section 4 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
 extend to seven years, or with fine which shall not be less than
 five lakh rupees but which may extend to twenty-five crore
 rupees or three times the amount of profits made out of the 23 fraudulent default referred to in said section, whichever is
 higher, or with both." Section 2(4) defines what is a deposit. It reads as follows: operative bank or any other banking company as defined
 in Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of
 1949); (b) amounts received as loan or financial assistance from the
 Public Financial Institutions notified by the Central
 Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank of
 India or any non-banking financial company as defined in
 clause (f) of Section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India
 Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) and is registered with the Reserve
 Bank of India or any Regional Financial Institutions or
 insurance companies; (c) amounts received from the appropriate Government, or
 any amount received from any other source whose
 repayment is guaranteed by the appropriate Government,
 or any amount received from a statutory authority
 constituted under an Act of Parliament or a State
 Legislature; (d) amounts received from foreign Governments, foreign or
 international banks, multilateral financial institutions,
 foreign Government owned development financial 24 institutions, foreign export credit collaborators, foreign
 bodies corporate, foreign citizens, foreign authorities or
 person resident outside India subject to the provisions of
 the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of
 1999) and the rules and regulations made thereunder; (e) amounts received by way of contributions towards the
 capital by partners of any partnership firm or a limited
 liability partnership; (f) amounts received by an individual by way of loan from his
 relatives or amounts received by any firm by way of loan
 from the relatives of any of its partners; (g) amounts received as credit by a buyer from a seller on
 the sale of any property (whether movable or
 immovable); (h) amounts received by an asset re-construction company
 which is registered with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 3 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
 Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
 2002 (54 of 2002); (i) any deposit made under Section 34 or an amount
 accepted by a political party under Section 29-B of the
 Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951); (j) any periodic payment made by the members of the self- help groups operating within such ceilings as may be
 prescribed by the State Government or Union territory
 Government; (k) any other amount collected for such purpose and within
 such ceilings as may be prescribed by the State
 Government; (l) an amount received in the course of, or for the purpose
 of, business and bearing a genuine connection to such
 business including-- (i) payment, advance or part payment for the supply
 or hire of goods or provision of services and is
 repayable in the event the goods or services are
 not in fact sold, hired or otherwise provided; (ii) advance received in connection with consideration
 of an immovable property under an agreement or
 arrangement subject to the condition that such
 advance is adjusted against such immovable
 property as specified in terms of the agreement or
 arrangement; (iii) security or dealership deposited for the
 performance of the contract for supply of goods or
 provision of services; or (iv) an advance under the long-term projects for supply
 of capital goods except those specified in item (ii): (Emphasis supplied)

The provisions of the Act define "deposit" in expansive terms and

the argument that the statute must be construed narrowly, so as to

exclude digital or gold backed arrangements stands repelled. 9. The evolution of digital gold, as a commercial

concept, is not in dispute. However, the materials on record

disclose that serious allegations are surfaced, including

assertions that physical gold could not be traced when

demanded, notwithstanding the assurances to the contrary.

Searches have allegedly yielded gold bearing the Company's

branding at the premises of the office bearers. The learned

senior counsel has strenuously contended that there is an

agreement entered into between the Brinks India Private Limited 27 and the petitioners for storage of gold and would contend that all

the gold is stored in the vault of Brinks India Private Limited. With

all this staring, this Court cannot lend its protective hands to

the petitioners and obliterate the crime in its incipient stage.

Investigation in such cases is imperative, as the investors have

already made hue and cry through communications between them

that there is no gold and no money. 10. In the light of circumstances giving rise to sharply

contested questions of fact, which cannot be adjudicated in

the proceedings of this nature, at this juncture, as it is well

settled principle of law that power to quash criminal

proceedings in exercise of jurisdiction under Section 528 of

the BNSS is an exception and not the rule. The Apex Court

has repeatedly cautioned that Courts must refrain from

embarking upon appreciation of disputed facts or evaluating

the probative worth of material, at the stage of

investigation. It becomes apposite to refer to the judgment of the 28 Apex Court in the case of KAPTAN SINGH v. STATE OF UTTAR

PRADESH1 , wherein the Apex Court has held as follows: ".... .... .... 9.1. At the outset, it is required to be noted
 that in the present case the High Court in exercise of
 powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,, has quashed the
 criminal proceedings for the offences under Sections
 147 , 148 , 149 , 406 , 329 and 386 IPC. It is required
 to be noted that when the High Court in exercise of
 powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,, quashed the
 criminal proceedings, by the time the investigating
 officer after recording the statement of the
 witnesses, statement of the complainant and
 collecting the evidence from the incident place and
 after taking statement of the independent witnesses
 and even statement of the accused persons, has filed
 the charge-sheet before the learned Magistrate for
 the offences under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 406 , 329 and 386 IPC and even the learned Magistrate also
 took the cognizance. From the impugned judgment and
 order [ Radhey Shyam Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2020 SCC
 OnLine All 914] passed by the High Court, it does not
 appear that the High Court took into consideration the
 material collected during the investigation/inquiry and even
 the statements recorded. If the petition under Section
 482 Cr.P.C.,, was at the stage of FIR in that case the
 allegations in the FIR/complaint only are required to
 be considered and whether a cognizable offence is
 disclosed or not is required to be considered.
 However, thereafter when the statements are
 recorded, evidence is collected and the charge-sheet
 is filed after conclusion of the investigation/inquiry
 the matter stands on different footing and the Court
 is required to consider the material/evidence
 collected during the investigation. Even at this stage
 also, as observed and held by this Court in a catena of
 decisions, the High Court is not required to go into the
 merits of the allegations and/or enter into the merits of the 1 (2021) 9 SCC 35 29 case as if the High Court is exercising the appellate
jurisdiction and/or conducting the trial. As held by this
Court in Dineshbhai Chandubhai Patel [Dineshbhai
Chandubhai Patel v. State of Gujarat , (2018) 3 SCC 104 : 9.2. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar [Dhruvaram
Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra , (2019) 18 SCC
191 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 672] after considering the
decisions of this Court in Bhajan Lal [State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC
(Cri) 426] , it is held by this Court that exercise of powers
under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,, to quash the proceedings is an
exception and not a rule. It is further observed that
inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C.,, though
wide is to be exercised sparingly, carefully and with
caution, only when such exercise is justified by tests
specifically laid down in the section itself. It is further
observed that appreciation of evidence is not permissible at
the stage of quashing of proceedings in exercise of powers
under Section 482 Cr.P.C., Similar view has been
expressed by this Court in Arvind Khanna [CBI v. Arvind
Khanna , (2019) 10 SCC 686 : (2020) 1 SCC (Cri) 94]
, Managipet [State of Telangana v. Managipet, (2019) 19
SCC 87 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 702] and in XYZ [XYZ v. State 30 of Gujarat , (2019) 10 SCC 337 : (2020) 1 SCC (Cri) 173] ,
referred to hereinabove. 9.3. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the
aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand, we are
of the opinion that the High Court has exceeded its
jurisdiction in quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise
of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C., 10. The High Court has failed to appreciate and
consider the fact that there are very serious triable
issues/allegations which are required to be gone into and
considered at the time of trial. The High Court has lost
sight of crucial aspects which have emerged during the
course of the investigation. The High Court has failed to
appreciate and consider the fact that the document i.e. a
joint notarised affidavit of Mamta Gupta Accused 2 and
Munni Devi under which according to Accused 2 Ms Mamta
Gupta, Rs 25 lakhs was paid and the possession was
transferred to her itself is seriously disputed. It is required
to be noted that in the registered agreement to sell dated
27-10-2010, the sale consideration is stated to be Rs 25
lakhs and with no reference to payment of Rs 25 lakhs to
Ms Munni Devi and no reference to handing over the
possession. However, in the joint notarised affidavit of the
same date i.e. 27-10-2010 sale consideration is stated to
be Rs 35 lakhs out of which Rs 25 lakhs is alleged to have
been paid and there is a reference to transfer of possession
to Accused 2. Whether Rs 25 lakhs has been paid or not
the accused have to establish during the trial, because the
accused are relying upon the said document and payment
of Rs 25 lakhs as mentioned in the joint notarised affidavit
dated 27-10-2010. It is also required to be considered that
the first agreement to sell in which Rs 25 lakhs is stated to
be sale consideration and there is reference to the payment
of Rs 10 lakhs by cheques. It is a registered document. The
aforesaid are all triable issues/allegations which are
required to be considered at the time of trial. The High
Court has failed to notice and/or consider the material
collected during the investigation. 11. Now so far as the finding recorded by the High
Court that no case is made out for the offence under 31 Section 406 IPC is concerned, it is to be noted that the
High Court itself has noted that the joint notarised affidavit
dated 27-10-2010 is seriously disputed, however as per the
High Court the same is required to be considered in the
civil proceedings. There the High Court has committed an
error. Even the High Court has failed to notice that another
FIR has been lodged against the accused for the offences
under Sections 467 , 468 , 471 IPC with respect to the said
alleged joint notarised affidavit. Even according to the
accused the possession was handed over to them.
However, when the payment of Rs 25 lakhs as mentioned
in the joint notarised affidavit is seriously disputed and
even one of the cheques out of 5 cheques each of Rs 2
lakhs was dishonoured and according to the accused they
were handed over the possession (which is seriously
disputed) it can be said to be entrustment of property.
Therefore, at this stage to opine that no case is made out
for the offence under Section 406 IPC is premature and the
aforesaid aspect is to be considered during trial. It is also
required to be noted that the first suit was filed by Munni
Devi and thereafter subsequent suit came to be filed by the
accused and that too for permanent injunction only.
Nothing is on record that any suit for specific performance
has been filed. Be that as it may, all the aforesaid aspects
are required to be considered at the time of trial only. 12. Therefore, the High Court has grossly erred
in quashing the criminal proceedings by entering into
the merits of the allegations as if the High Court was
exercising the appellate jurisdiction and/or
conducting the trial. The High Court has exceeded its
jurisdiction in quashing the criminal proceedings in
exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C., 13. Even the High Court has erred in observing that
original complaint has no locus. The aforesaid observation
is made on the premise that the complainant has not
placed on record the power of attorney along with the
counter filed before the High Court. However, when it is
specifically stated in the FIR that Munni Devi has executed
the power of attorney and thereafter the investigating
officer has conducted the investigation and has recorded 32 the statement of the complainant, accused and the
 independent witnesses, thereafter whether the complainant
 is having the power of attorney or not is to be considered
 during trial. 14. In view of the above and for the reasons stated
 above, the impugned judgment and order [ Radhey Shyam
 Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2020 SCC OnLine All 914] passed
 by the High Court quashing the criminal proceedings in
 exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C., is
 unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and
 set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. Now,
 the trial is to be conducted and proceeded further in
 accordance with law and on its own merits. It is made clear
 that the observations made by this Court in the present
 proceedings are to be treated to be confined to the
 proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C., only and the trial
 court to decide the case in accordance with law and on its
 own merits and on the basis of the evidence to be laid and
 without being influenced by any of the observations made
 by us hereinabove. The present appeal is accordingly
 allowed." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court in KAPTAN SINGH has clearly held that

interference at the juncture of the investigation, except in

exceptional circumstances, would amount to stifling of

legitimate enquiry and would run afoul of binding

precedents. 11. The submission that the Act stands uninvoked in

the present circumstances is entirely bereft of merit and

cannot be countenanced. The absence of express regulatory 33 supervision by bodies such as SEBI or the RBI over the

purchase or storage of gold, be it in tangible form or in its

digital avatar, does not confer upon such transactions a

sanctuary beyond the reach of the statute. The argument that

deposit is not in currency or hard cash but in gold, physical or

digital, is equally unavailing. "Law is concerned not with the

cosmetic garb in which a transaction is clothed, but with its

intrinsic character and its economic substance. In the

rapidly mutating landscape of cyber enabled financial frauds,

deception no longer adheres to the crude paradigm of cash

deposits." It now assumes a subtler and more sophisticated

forms - commodities, digital assets, gold linked assurances

and other alluring constructs designed to circumvent

regulatory vigilance. 12. The BUDS Act , being a remedial and protective

legislation, was enacted precisely to arrest such ingenuity in

evasion. To confine the expression money within the narrow

confines of physical currency, would become a pedantic and

myopic construction, which would render the statute otiose 34 in the face of evolving financial stratagems and defeat the

very mischief it was designed to suppress. Therefore, a

purposive, expansive and pragmatic interpretation alone

would advance the object of the enactment and uphold the

protective mantle to extend over unsuspecting deposits.

Even otherwise, what is now challenged is an FIR. The reason for

challenge is the crime not fitting itself in the definition of the word

deposit. It is trite law that FIR is not an encyclopedia of offences, it

is only to trigger investigation. Different offences may come in while

filing the final report. It becomes apposite to quote a paragraph of

the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of NEEHARIKA

INFRASTRUCTURE (P) LTD. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA2 ,

wherein the Apex Court has held as follows: ".... .... .... 33.12. The first information report is not an
 encyclopaedia which must disclose all facts and details
 relating to the offence reported. Therefore, when the
 investigation by the police is in progress, the court
 should not go into the merits of the allegations in the
 FIR. Police must be permitted to complete the
 investigation. It would be premature to pronounce the
 conclusion based on hazy facts that the complaint/FIR
 does not deserve to be investigated or that it amounts 2 (2021) 19 SCC 401 35 to abuse of process of law. After investigation, if the
 investigating officer finds that there is no substance in
 the application made by the complainant, the
 investigating officer may file an appropriate
 report/summary before the learned Magistrate which
 may be considered by the learned Magistrate in
 accordance with the known procedure." (Emphasis supplied)

In the light of the afore-narrated facts, glaring enough they are, the

allegations disclose serious and triable issues, which demand

thorough investigation. 13. Therefore, finding no merit in the petition, the petition

stands rejected. It is made clear that the observations made during the course

of this order are only for the purpose of consideration of the case of

the petitioners under Section 528 of the BNSS and the same would

not bind any proceedings pending against any other accused. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE
bkp
CT:MJ