Coram: Hon'ble K.M. Joseph, C.J. Hon'ble Alok Singh, J. Dated: 17th July, 2017
K.M. JOSEPH, C.J. (Oral)
 Petitioner has approached this Court challenging order dated
17.10.2015 issued by Accounts Officer (Head Quarter), Uttarakhand Pey
Jal Sansadhan Development and Construction Corporation, Dehradun. A
further direction is sought for commanding respondent Nos. 1 to 5 to pay
family pension to the petitioner with effect from September, 2015 along
with arrears with interest @ 18% per annum and also to release Medical
claim / reimbursement which is unpaid till date. 2. Briefly put, the case of the petitioner is as follows: Mr. Bhim Sen Dhiraj retired on 31.05.2015. Thereafter, he expired
on 09.08.2015. Annexure No. 3 purports to be the death certificate.
Thereafter, paragraph 10 of the writ petition reads as follows: It is, thereafter, stated that the petitioner completed the formalities;
pension papers were processed; and the petitioner was paid the arrears of
family pension. It is, thereafter, it seems that a notice was sent under Section 80 C.P.C. to the General Manager of Uttarakhand Pey Jal
Sansadhan Vikas Evam Nirman Nigam, as Annexure No. 6. This led to
the passing of the impugned order (Annexure No. 1). It is the case of the
petitioner that pension papers were submitted on 28.05.2012, wherein it
was mandatory for the employee to file a photograph along with his / her
spouse, in which Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj had submitted a joint photograph of
himself along with the petitioner. Petitioner submitted Annexure No. 9
representation and sent Annexure No. 10 reminder and is before us. 3. Counter affidavit is filed on behalf of respondent No. 6 to which,
again, petitioner has filed a rejoinder affidavit. 4. We heard Mr. Shyam Mohan, learned counsel appearing on behalf
of the petitioner; Mr. Suresh Chandra Bhatt, learned counsel appearing on 3 behalf of respondent No. 6; Mr. D.S. Patni, learned counsel appearing for
the Uttarakhand Pey Jal Nigam; and Mr. C.S. Rawat, learned Addl. Chief
Standing Counsel appearing for the State. 5. English translation of the impugned order dated 17.10.2015 reads
as follows: 6. Mr. Shyam Mohan, learned counsel for the petitioner would
contend before us that there is, actually, a custom in the caste to which the
parties belong, which permitted dissolution of marriage by consent. In
this regard, he drew our attention to Section 29(2) of the Hindu Marriage
Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as the "1955 Act"). The same reads as
follows: 7. He would submit that, after 1981, there is no relationship between
the sixth respondent and Late Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj. It turns out that there
are three children from the marriage alleged between the petitioner and
late Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj. On the other hand, Mr. Suresh Chandra Bhatt,
learned counsel for respondent No. 6, would point out that there are four
children from the marriage between the sixth respondent and late Sri
Bhim Sen Dhiraj. No doubt, the answer to the allegation contained in
paragraph 7 of the writ petition is given in the following paragraph of the
counter affidavit filed by the sixth respondent: 8. Petitioner has also filed a rejoinder affidavit. In short, the case of
the petitioner appears to be based on custom with reference to Section
29(2) of the 1955 Act. By the impugned order, in view of the dispute
raised by the sixth respondent, the authority has only insisted for
production of document from the competent court. 9. One thing is clear and is beyond dispute that there was a marriage
between the sixth respondent and late Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj. It is without
obtaining any dissolution of the first marriage that, admittedly, the
petitioner is alleged to have married late Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj. Shelter is
taken only under the provision of Section 29(2) of the 1955 Act. Section
29(2) , apparently, relates to a custom. Custom is not a matter, which can
be gone into in proceedings under Article 226. As far as the impugned
decision, itself, of the authority is concerned, we find that the authority
certainly cannot be blamed if, on the notice given by the party respondent,
who is admittedly the first wife of late Sri Bhim Sen Dhiraj, pension has
been ordered to be paid only on production of proper document from the 5 court. We feel that the petitioner is not entitled to any relief under Article 226. 10. Without prejudice to any right the petitioner has to approach any
competent forum for establishing her right and reserving the said right to
her, the writ petition will stand dismissed. No order as to costs.