1. In this petition filed under article 226 of the 

Constitution   of   India,   the   petitioner   has   made 

following prayers in para No.16. 2. The case of the petitioner is that the petitioner 

had   filed   Special   Civil   Application   No.5025   of   1991 

challenging   the   order   dated   08.06.1991   of   his 

dismissal   from   service   and   also   sought   prayer   to 

declare regulations No.7, 9 and 19 of the Dena Bank 

Officer Employees (Discipline and Appeal) Regulations, 

1976   as   ultra­virus   to Articles   14 and 16 of   the Page 2 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT Constitution   of   India.   This   Court   quashed   and   set 

aside   the   order   of   dismissal   and   directed   the 

respondents   to   supply   all   relevant   materials   to   the 

petitioner.     The   petitioner   thereafter   issued   three 

notices to get the copies of the relevant documents to 

defend   himself.   However,   the   petitioner   having 

anticipated   termination   of   his   service,   approached 

this Court by filing Special Civil Application No.7170 

of   1992.     The   petitioner   has   averred   that   the 

documents demanded are part of the said petition and 

despite the order made in his favour, the respondent 

passed   the   impugned   order   of   dismissal.     The 

petitioner   has  further   averred   that  there  was   a  gap 

between   the   note   dated   26/27­02­1991   and   the   first 

order of dismissal passed in June 1991 and there is no 

doubt   that   in   between   correspondence   must   have   been 

ensued   between   the   disciplinary   authority   and   the 

authorities of the Bank which has direct relevance on 

the subject matter.   Another big gap is between the 

date of the first dismissal order in June 1991 and the 

impugned dismissal order in February 1993 and during 

this big gap, various correspondences must have been 

ensued   between   the   disciplinary   authority   and   the Page 3 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT authority of the bank which has again no doubt, direct 

relevance on the subject matter.   The petitioner has 

further   averred   that   the   disciplinary   authority   is 

required obtain administrative clearance from the head 

office and if there was any directive from the head 

office   by   way   of   administrative   clearance,   it   was 

bound to affect the mind of the disciplinary authority 

before passing final order, but, those documents have 

been   kept   back.     Similarly,   the   copies   of   all   the 

materials   sent   to   the   Chief   Vigilance   Officer,   were 

also required to be supplied to the petitioner, but no 

such   material   is   supplied   to   the   petitioner.     The 

petitioner   has   alleged   that   the   impugned   order   is 

passed in hurry without application of mind.  Though, 

the   impugned   order   states   that   all   the   relevant 

papers/documents   were   given   to   the   petitioner, 

however,   the   petitioner   has   not   been   supplied   with 

such   relevant   documents   and   therefore,   the   finding 

recorded by the disciplinary authority was bad in law. 

It is further averred that the order of dismissal was 

passed by a different disciplinary authority than the 

authority   which   received   the   report   of   the   inquiry 

officer.   The petitioner has taken a contention that Page 4 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT imposition   of   punishment   without   supplying   or 

disclosing   the   material   to   an   employee   cannot   be 

countenanced   and   therefore,   the   punishing   order   of 

dismissal is bad because of procedural error. 3. The   petition   is   opposed   by   affidavit   in   reply 

dated   26.05.1993,   to   which   the   petitioner   filed 

rejoinder affidavit dated 05.01.1994 and on behalf of 

the respondents, affidavit in sur rejoinder was filed 

on 14.02.1994.  It is stated in the affidavit in reply 

that all the materials and the documents relied on by 

the disciplinary authority have been supplied to the 

petitioner and on the basis thereof, the petitioner in 

fact made representation pursuant to the report of the 

inquiry   authority   and   the   representation   of   the 

petitioner has been taken into consideration and there 

is   no   other   material   taken   into   consideration.   No 

administrative   clearance   have   been   sought   from   the 

head office for the present dismissal order.   It is 

also   stated   that   after   this   Court   passed   order   in 

Special   Civil   Application   No.5025   of   1991,   the 

petitioner had not made any representation though four 

opportunities   were   given   to   the   petitioner.     The 

petitioner has failed to make out as to which material Page 5 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT or document relied upon by the disciplinary authority 

has not been supplied to him. 4. The petitioner has filed one additional affidavit 

dated 13.04.2009, stating that the inquiry authority 

had   relied   upon   the   preliminary   report­   prepared   by 

Shri   P.D.Pathak,   Shri   H.M.Anantraman   and   Shri 

C.K.Patel. Shri C.K.Patel was agricultural officer of 

the   branch   and   responsible   person   for   complying   the 

procedural   formalities   for   sanctioning   the   loan   for 

purchase  of  buffaloes.    Shri   C.K.Patel  was   later   on 

dismissed   from   services   for   the   same   charges.   Shri 

C.K.Patel had personal interest in ensuring that the 

petitioner   stood   punished.     The   above   preliminary 

report   has   therefore   greatly   prejudiced   the 

petitioner.     It   is   further   stated   that   the   inquiry 

authority   also   relied   upon   MEX­119   i.e.   a   report 

prepared by the regional Manager Shri R.N. Shah.  The 

petitioner had objected before the inquiry authority 

that   the   author   of   the   report   was   required   to   be 

examined   which   was   brushed   aside   by   the   inquiry 

authority.     It   is   further   stated   that   preliminary 

inquiry   report  by  the   vigilance   officer   of   the   Bank 

Shri R.R.Mankame was not exhibited, nor a copy of the Page 6 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT same was given to the petitioner, but, the same was 

relied   upon  by  the   inquiry  authority.   It   is   further 

stated that in an extreme situation if this Court is 

of  the   opinion  that   no   interference  is  warranted   in 

the   petition,   this   Court   may   take   note   of   pension 

regulations   i.e.   Dena   Bank   (Employees)   Pension 

Regulations,   1995,   which,   inter­alia,   provides   for 

payment   of   compassionate   pension   not   exceeding   2/3rd 

pension   which   would   have   been   admissible   to   an 

employee who has been dismissed/removed or terminated 

from services.  It is stated that for such benefit the 

employee should have been dismissed/removed/terminated 

on or after 01.11.1993, but since the petitioner was 

dismissed before the crucial date, he could not avail 

the benefit of the said policy.  It is stated that if 

this   Court   is   not   to   decide   in   favour   of   the 

petitioner,   this   Court   may   on   sympathetic 

consideration,   direct   the   respondent­Bank   to   give 

compassionate allowance to the petitioner. 5. To   the   aforesaid   additional   affidavit,   the 

respondent­Bank has filed further affidavit in reply, 

stating   that   the   benefit   of   compassionate   pension 

cannot   be   made   available   to   the   petitioner   as   the Page 7 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT petitioner   was   dismissed   from   service   prior   to 

01.11.1983.     The   Bank   has   filed   additional   further 

affidavit   in   reply   stating   that   the   copy   of   the 

preliminary   report   numbered   as   MEX­120   was   given   to 

the petitioner.  It is stated that since Mr.C.K.Patel 

had accompanied the other two officers, he signed the 

report.   However, the allegation that he had ensured 

that the petitioner was held guilty of the charges is 

not correct.  As regards regional manager's report, it 

is stated that the copy of the same was given to the 

petitioner,   however,   it   is   denied   that   the   regional 

Manager ought to have been examined as witness. 6. I have heard learned advocates for the parties. 7. Learned   senior   advocate   Mr.B.P.Tanna   appearing 

for the petitioner submitted that though there was a 

clear   direction   from   this   Court   in   earlier   petition 

being   Special   Civil   Application   No.5095   of   1991   to 

supply   all   the   materials   not   supplied   to   the 

petitioner,   the   respondent   passed   impugned   order   of 

dismissal without supplying any material which is in 

defiance of the directions issued by this Court,  and 

in gross violation of principles of natural justice. Page 8 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT Mr.Tanna   submitted   that   the   petitioner   was   to   make 

representation   against   note   dated   26/27­02­1991 

supplied   to   him.     However,   failure   to   make   such 

representation   would   not   give   handle   to   the 

respondents   not   to   supply   the   materials   or   the 

documents   relied   for   passing   the   impugned   order. 

Mr.Tanna submitted that the petitioner is entitled to 

have the materials or the documents which have in fact 

entered into the minds of the disciplinary authority 

for   passing   the   impugned   order.     Mr.Tanna   submitted 

that   any   correspondence   or   any   document   exchanged 

between the disciplinary authority and the authorities 

at   the   head   office   in   connection   with   the   impugned 

order  are   relevant   documents   for  the   purpose  of  the 

petitioner to make representation to the disciplinary 

authority   as   such   document   would   have   definitely 

affected   the   mind   of   the   disciplinary   authority   in 

taking   decision   for   passing   the   impugned   order. 

Mr.Tanna submitted that in the earlier petition being 

Special   Civil   Application   No.7170   of   1992,   the 

petitioner has clearly referred the documents demanded 

by   three   legal   notices   dated   25.09.1991,   05.12.1991 

and   24.01.1992   and   the   such   documents   were   not Page 9 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT supplied to the petitioner.   Mr.Tanna submitted that 

the documents include the copy of the vigilance report 

and the administrative clearance granted by the head 

office   to   the   disciplinary   authority   and   also   the 

communication   between   the   disciplinary   authority   and 

the head office.  Mr.Tanna submitted that it was never 

the   case   of   the   respondents   that   disciplinary 

authority   had   not   considered   any   document   or 

correspondence before passing the impugned order and 

therefore,   it   was   under   obligation   to   first   supply 

such   documents   to   the   petitioner.     However,   without 

supplying   such   documents   to   the   petitioner,   the 

impugned order came to be passed, which was clearly in 

breach   of   natural   justice.     Mr.Tanna   submitted   that 

the impugned order is non­reasoned order and does not 

reflect   application   of   mind   by   the   disciplinary 

authority.     Mr.Tanna   submitted   that   disciplinary 

authority   cursorily   saying   that   it   has   perused   the 

inquiry   proceedings,   the   arguments   of   presenting 

officer and defense representative, the inquiry report 

and the representation of the petitioner against the 

inquiry   report  and   further  saying   that  it  is  agreed 

with the inquiry report is no reasoning in the eye of Page 10 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT law.     Mr.Tanna   submitted   that   the   disciplinary 

authority   was   required   to   record   some   reasons   to 

reflect as to how the charges against the petitioner 

and the findings recorded in the inquiry warranted the 

order of dismissal against the petitioner. 8. On   the   basis   of   additional   affidavit   dated 

13.04.2009,   alleging   non   supply   of   the   copy   of   the 

preliminary   report   and   the   report   of   the   regional 

Manager   and   non   exhibiting   the   preliminary   inquiry 

report   of   the   vigilance   officer   Shri   R.R.Mankeme   as 

also for the benefits of compassionate pension under 

the   pension   regulation   of   1995,   learned   Senior 

Advocate   Mr.Tanna   submitted   that   reliance   placed   by 

the   inquiry   authority   on   preliminary   report   at   MEX­

120, on the report prepared by regional manager and on 

the   preliminary   inquiry   report   of   vigilance   officer 

without   exhibiting   the   same,   were   in   violation   of 

principles   of   natural   justice   and   therefore,   the 

inquiry itself was vitiated.  Mr.Tanna submitted that 

if this Court is not to interfere with the impugned 

order, the case of the petitioner is required to be 

considered   for   giving   benefit   of   the   compassionate 

pension under the pension regulation 1995 as only on Page 11 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT account of bifurcating crucial date of 01.11.1993, the 

petitioner   will   not   be   in   possession   to   avail   the 

benefit   of   compassionate   pension.   Mr.Tanna   submitted 

that in the facts of the case and taking sympathetic 

view   of   the   matter,   this   Court   may   direct   the 

respondents   to   pay   compassionate   pension   to   the 

petitioners.     Mr.Tanna   thus,   urged   to   allow   the 

petition and to quash and set aside the impugned order 

of   dismissal   or   in   the   alternative   to   direct   the 

respondents to grant benefit of compassionate pension 

to the petitioner. 9. In   support   of   his   arguments,   learned   Senior 

Advocate Mr.Tanna has relied on following decisions. 

In   the   case   of   State   of   Uttranchal   and   Others   Vs. 

Kharak   Singh,   reported   in   2008   (8)   SCC   236.   In   the 

case of Bank of Baroda Versus S.K.Kool (DEAD)  Through 

Legal   Representatives   and   Another,   reported   in   2014 

(2)   SCC   715.   In   the   case   of   Tirloknath   v.   Union   of 

India, reported in Laws (SC) ­1960­11­49. In the case 

of The State of Punjab v. Bhagat Ram , reported in AIR 

1974   (SC)   2335. In   case   of Kashinath   Dikshita   v. 

Union of India and others , reported in AIR 1986 (SC) 

2118. In   case   of State   of   Uttar   Pradesh   v.   Mohd. Page 12 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT Sharif (dead) reported in AIR 1982 SC 937. 10. To counter the above arguments, learned advocate 

Mr.R.H.Mehta, appearing for the respondents submitted 

that   the   petitioner   is   not   entitled   to   make   any 

grievance as regards the inquiry proceedings as he has 

not complained any violation of principles of natural 

justice   either   in   earlier   proceedings   or   in   this 

proceedings   as   regards   the   inquiry   conducted   by   the 

inquiry   officer.     Mr.Mehta   submitted   that   on   simple 

assumption   that   the   disciplinary   authority   has 

considered   and   not   supplied   some   documents   before 

passing   the   order   of   dismissal,   the   petitioner   has 

alleged violation of principles of natural justice by 

the disciplinary authority.   Mr.Mehta submitted that 

in   earlier   petition   being   Special   Civil   Application 

No.5025 of 1991, this Court had observed that if the 

disciplinary authority had received any material or is 

in   possession   of   any   material   on   which   reliance   is 

placed   for   the   purpose   of   holding   the   petitioner 

guilty and/or imposing punishment on that basis, the 

same   is   required   to   be   supplied   to   the   petitioner 

either   before   holding   him   guilty   or   before   imposing 

any   penalty   on   him.     Mr.Mehta   submitted   that   the Page 13 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT disciplinary authority has clearly stated that all the 

papers/documents/material   relied   upon   are   already 

given to the petitioner and no reliance is placed on 

any other material as stated in the notices issued by 

the   petitioner   to   the   disciplinary   authority. 

Mr.Mehta submitted that the petitioner has failed to 

point out as to which material or document was relied 

by   the   disciplinary   authority   and   since   no   other 

material   like   vigilance   officer's   report   or 

administrative clearance is relied by the disciplinary 

authority   for   passing   the   present   impugned   order   of 

dismissal, it cannot be said that the impugned order 

of dismissal is passed in violation of principles of 

natural justice.   Mr.Mehta submitted that as regards 

non supply of preliminary report at MEX­120, MEX­119 

and   preliminary   inquiry   report   by   the   vigilance 

officer, the respondents have clearly stated in their 

reply   that   such   documents   were   supplied   to   the 

petitioner and at this stage, it is not open to the 

petitioners   to   complain   about   the   violation   of 

principles of natural justice by the inquiry officer. 

Mr.Mehta   submitted   that   the   contentions   about   non 

supply of preliminary inquiry report and violation of Page 14 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT principles of natural justice by the inquiry officer 

are   taken   in   the   additional   affidavit   by   the 

petitioner, whereby, the scope of the petition would 

be widen which is not permissible.  Mr.Mehta submitted 

that   even   the   prayer/the   request   made   in   the 

additional   affidavit   filed   by   the   petitioner   for 

benefit of compassionate pension is also not part of 

the main petition and same is also not required to be 

considered.     Mr.Mehta,   however,   submitted   that 

the petitioner is not entitled for the benefit of the 

compassionate   pension   as   such   benefits   are   made 

available   only   to   the   employees   dismissed   after 

01.11.1993,   whereas,   the   petitioner   was   dismissed 

prior to 01.11.1993.  Mr.Mehta thus, urged to dismiss 

the petition. 11. In   support   of   his   arguments   learned   advocate 

Mr.Mehta has relied on decision of this Court in the 

case of A.C.Trivedi v. Chairman & Managing Director, 

Dena   Bank,   Mumbai   &   Ors.,   reported   in   2005   (1)   CLR 698. 12. Having   heard   learned   advocates   for   the   parties, 

it   appears   that   the   first   order   of   dismissal   dated Page 15 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT 08.06.1991,   passed   against   the   petitioner   was   set 

aside   by   this   Court   in   Special   Civil   Application 

No.5025 of 1991 the ground that the findings (notes) 

recorded   on   26/27­02­1991   were   not   supplied   to   the 

petitioner before passing order of punishment against 

the petitioner.  It was observed in the judgment that 

the   petitioner   was   since   supplied   the   note   dated 

26/27­02­1991,   it   was   not   necessary   to   again   supply 

the said note to him.   However, he was permitted to 

make   representation   against   the   said   note.   It   was 

further   observed   that   if   the   disciplinary   authority 

had received any material or was in possession of any 

material on which reliance was placed for the purpose 

of   holding   the   petitioner   guilty   and/or   imposing 

punishment   on   that   basis,   the   petitioner   should   be 

supplied such material.  By such observations the said 

petition was allowed and the respondents were directed 

to supply the material, if any, which was not supplied 

to the petitioner.  The petitioner was allowed to make 

representation   against   the   note   dated   26/27­02­1997 

supplied   to   him   or   in   connection   with   any   material 

which will be supplied, within four week.  There is no 

dispute   about   the  fact   that,   the  petitioner   has  not Page 16 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT made any representation.   However, anticipating that 

an order of termination will be passed against him, he 

preferred Special Civil Application No.7170 of 1992. 13. During   the   course   of   hearing,   learned   advocate 

Mr.Tanna has tendered the copy of petition of Special 

Civil Application No.7170 of 1992 with the documents 

annexed   with   the   said   petition   for   perusal   of   the 

Court. 14. In   the   said   petition,   it   was   alleged   that   the 

inquiry proceedings were vitiated by non application 

of  mind   and  by  not   supplying   the  relevant  documents 

stated in para No.8, 9 and 10 thereof.  In para No.8, 

the   petitioner   has   stated   about   non­supply   of   note 

dated   26/27­02­1997,   which   as   stated   above,   was 

already supplied to the petitioner. In para No.9, the 

petitioner has stated that the disciplinary authority 

is   required   to   obtain   administrative   clearance   from 

the head office.   It is stated that if there is any 

directive   from   the   head   office   by   way   of 

administrative   clearance,   it   is   bound   to   affect   the 

mind of the disciplinary authority before passing the 

final  order.     Similarly,   all   the  materials   are   also Page 17 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT required   to   be   sent   to   the   chief   vigilance   officer 

before   passing   the   final   order.     Therefore,   if   the 

same   were   sent   to   the   Chief   Vigilance   Officer,   the 

copies of the same are required to be supplied to the 

petitioner.  In para No.10 it is stated that the order 

of dismissal was passed by the different disciplinary 

authority   than   the   authority   which   had   received   the 

report of the inquiry authority.  If such disciplinary 

authority   had   forwarded   anything   to   the   present 

disciplinary   authority,   the   same   would   be   very 

important piece of evidence which must be supplied to 

the petitioner. 15. The above were the main grievances in the above 

said petition and the said petition was disposed of by 

order dated 09.10.1992 which reads as under: 16. The   present   petition   is   filed   challenging   order Page 18 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT of dismissal on the similar grievances now referred in 

para No.6, 7 and 9 of the present petition.   Neither 

was   in   the   earlier   petition,   nor   is   in   the   present 

petition, any complaint made as regards any illegality 

in the decision making process by the inquiry officer 

or any kind of violation of principles natural justice 

during   the   inquiry   by   the   inquiry   officer.     The 

petitioner   has   consciously   come   out   with   the 

grievances   as   regards   non   supply   of   the   documents 

allegedly considered by the disciplinary authority for 

passing the impugned order. 17. The respondents in their affidavit in reply have 

clearly stated that whatever the documents relied by 

the   inquiry   officer   and   the   disciplinary   authority 

were supplied to the petitioner.   It is also stated 

that the petitioner has assumed that the disciplinary 

authority   had   relied   on   some   documents   and   not 

supplied to him before passing impugned order. 18. It   is   required   to   be   noted   that   when   it   is 

clearly   stated   in   the   affidavit   in   reply   filed   on 

behalf   of   the   respondents   that   the   administrative 

clearance   was   in   respect   of   the   earlier   order   of 

dismissal   and   there   is   no   administrative   clearance Page 19 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT received from the head office for passing the impugned 

order of dismissal, nor even there was any vigilance 

report relied on for passing the impugned order by the 

disciplinary   authority,   the   petitioner   cannot   just 

come   with   a   case   that   whatever   correspondence 

exchanged between the disciplinary authority and the 

head   office   and   that   the   material   entered   into   the 

minds of the disciplinary authority, the same should 

have   been   supplied   to   the   petitioner.     On   such 

assumptions of the petitioner, it cannot be held that 

the   disciplinary   authority   passed   impugned   order   in 

violation of principles of natural justice. 19. As   stated   above,   if   the   petitioner   has   not 

complained   about   the   decision   making   process   by   the 

inquiry   officer   or   for   any   kind   of   violation   of 

natural justice by the inquiry officer, he cannot be 

allowed to widen the scope of petition by additional 

affidavit alleging violation of principles of natural 

justice   by   the   inquiry   officer.     The   Court   is 

therefore of the view that the petitioner has failed 

to   make   out   any   case   as   regards   violation   of 

principles   of   natural   justice   by   the   disciplinary 

authority   before   passing   the   impugned   order   of Page 20 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT dismissal. 20. In  the  case  of Bhagat  Ram (supra)  relied   on  by 

Mr.Tanna, Hon'ble Supreme Court has held and observed 

that it is unjust and unfair to deny the Government 

Servant   copies   of   statement   of   witnesses   examined 

during   investigation   and   produced   at   the   inquiry   in 

support of the charges leveled against the Government 

officers.  This decision shall have no application to 

the facts of the case. 21. In the case of Mohd. Sharif (dead) (supra) relied 

on   by   Mr.Tanna,   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   has   held   and 

observed that the absence of providing particulars of 

the charges and the statement of the witnesses to the 

employee facing departmental inquiry, would prejudice 

him in the matter of his defense.  In the said case, 

it was found that the delinquent was denied reasonable 

opportunity   to   defend   himself   at   the   disciplinary 

inquiry.   The   order   of   his   dismissal   was   therefore, 

declared   illegal.     This   decision   will   have   no 

application to the facts of the case. 22. In the case of Kashinath Dikshita (supra) relied 

on   by   Mr.Tanna,   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   has   held   and Page 21 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT observed   that   when   the   Government   refused   to   its 

employee,   who   was   dismissed,   the   copies   of   the 

statement   of   witnesses   examined   at   the   stage   of 

preliminary   inquiry   preceding   the   commencement   of 

inquiry and the copies of the documents said to have 

been   relied   upon   by   the   disciplinary   authority   in 

order   to   establish   the   charges   against   the   employee 

and even in this connection, the reasonable request of 

the   employee   to   have   the   relevant   portions   of   the 

documents extracted with the help of his stenographer 

and told to himself make such notes as he could and 

the   Government  failed   to   show  that   no   prejudice  was 

occasioned   to   employee   of   non   supply   of   copies   of 

documents, the order of dismissal of such employee was 

in violation of Article 311(2) of the constitution in 

as   much   as   the   employee   has   been   denied   reasonable 

opportunity of defending himself.  This decision also 

shall have no application to the facts of the case. In 

the   case   on   hand,   the   petitioner   has   failed   to 

establish that the disciplinary authority has in fact 

considered   some   documents   like   administrative 

clearance   from   the   head   office   or   vigilance   report 

etc.   and   not   provided   copies   thereof   to   him. Page 22 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT Therefore,   there   is   no   question   of   denial   of 

reasonable opportunity or any prejudice occasioned to 

the petitioner. 23. Similarly,   the   other   two   decisions,   one   in   the 

case of Tirlokhnath (supra) and second is Kharak Singh 

(supra), relied on by Mr.Tanna on the issue of supply 

of materials/documents to the delinquent shall have no 

application to the facts of the case. 24. It   is   required   to   be   noted   that   the   petitioner 

has neither placed on record copy of the charge­sheet, 

nor even the the copy of the inquiry report.  The copy 

of   the   charge­sheet   is   placed   on   record   by   the 

respondent­Bank   with   its   further   affidavit   in   reply 

dated 08.06.2010.   The charge­sheet dated 16.05.1989 

reads as under: a. The address/residential status and other  
details mentioned in application of the said  
ten borrowers have not been vouched, verified 
by   you   from   local   Panchayat   or   during   spot 
verification, visit etc. before entertaining  
all   10   loan   applications   for   sanction   and  
disbursement, though you have stated to have  
done so. b. On   the   said   ten   loan   applications  
neither   any   of   the   applications,   bears  
attention   of   thumb   impression   of   applicants  
nor   carries   photographs   of   concerned  
borrowers duly certified by you although all  
of   them   are   stated   to   be   illustrate. Photographs   of   all   the   ten   borrowers   were  
parted   by   you   with   an   outstanding,   after 
disbursement of the said loans. c. You did not take care to obtain formal  
recommendations/report   of   the   concerned 
Agricultural   Officer   by   way   of   taking   his Page 24 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT signatures   in   the   said   applications,  
proposals   though   the   applications   and   other  
documents   were   filled   up   by   agricultural  
officer concerned. d. The   necessary   health   certificate   were  
not taken from the veterinary doctor for all  
the animals financed by the Bank . e. No margin money has been recovered from  
any of the so­called borrowers and the same 
has   been   created   out   of   the   loan   amount  
financed by our Bank. f. All   the   so   called   guarantors   are   non  
existing persons. 5. The   sellers   namely:   Ahmed   Akbar   Shaikh  
and Dayhabhai Amrutbhai Patel are fictitious 
and   the   payment   of   Rs.4   lakhs   disbursed   to 
them without authority letter of all the ten  
loanees to the effect that they have received 
delivery of ten buffaloes each. 6. Your   above   said   act(s)   if   proved   will  
constitute   the   following   act(s)   of  
misconduct: 7. The above act(s) of misconduct if proved 
against   you,   shall   reflect   contravention   of 
Regulation  3(1); 3(3) and 3(4) read with  
Regulation 24 of Dena Bank Officer Employees  
(Conduct) Regulations 1976, punishable under  
Dena   Bank   Officer   Employees   (Discipline   and Page 25 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT Appeal) Regulations 1976. 8. You   are   hereby   required   to   submit   your 
 explanation in writing within a period of 10  
 days   from   the   receipt   of   this   charge­sheet  
 failing   which   it   will   be   presumed   that   you 
 have no explanation to offer and the matter  
 will be dealt with accordingly. 9. Pending   enquiry   into   the   charges  
 levelled against  you in this chargesheet  in  
 terms   of   Regulations   12   sub­clause   1(a)   of  
 Dena   Bank   Officer   Employees   (Discipline   and  
 Appeal) Regulations 1976, you would continue 
 to be under suspension from the services of 
 the   Bank   as   per   suspension   order  
 No.SGZ/DAP/PER/8/5/274/89   dated   12th  January 
 1989 served to you in this connection." 25. The   above   charges   are   held   proved   against   the 

petitioner. 26. When   on   conclusion   of   the   inquiry   the 

disciplinary authority has passed impugned order after 

considering   the   inquiry   proceedings,   the 

representation   of   the   presenting   officer   as   also   of 

the   petitioner   with   the   inquiry   report,   such   order 

cannot   be   set   at   naught   on   petitioner   making   a 

grievance   that   some   documents/correspondence   assumed 

to be considered by the disciplinary authority are not 

supplied   to   the   petitioner   while   exercising   powers 

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Page 26 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT 27. The petitioner has not made good the contention 

that the order of dismissal could not have been passed 

by another disciplinary authority than the authority 

which received the inquiry report by any provision of 

rule   in   this   regard.     The   petitioner   has   failed   to 

show   as   to   how   he   was   prejudiced   when   different 

disciplinary   authority   passed   punishing   order.     The 

petitioner   has   also   failed   to   establish   that   the 

earlier   disciplinary   authority   had   supplied   some 

material to the present disciplinary authority which 

was not supplied to the petitioner before passing the 

impugned order.  In such view of the matter, there is 

no merit in the above said contention raised by the 

petitioner. 28. The   contention   that   the   disciplinary   authority 

has not recorded reasons and the impugned order is non 

speaking order does not appear to be well founded on 

reading the impugned order.  In the impugned order the 

disciplinary   authority   has   considered   the   grievance 

about non supply of material/documents demanded by the 

notices   issued   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner.     It   is 

stated that the petitioner was though advised to send Page 27 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT his   submissions/representations,   has   not   made   any 

submissions   or   representations.     The   disciplinary 

authority has further recorded that it has perused the 

inquiry   proceedings,   written   arguments   of   presenting 

officer   and   of   defense   representative,   inquiry 

authority's   report   dated   25.10.1990   and   the 

representation   made   by   the   petitioner   by   his   letter 

dated   11.05.1998   in   connection   with   the   inquiry 

authority's report.  It has further recorded that all 

relevant   papers/documents   have   been   supplied   to   the 

petitioner/his representatives and that it has agreed 

with   the   report/findings   dated   25.10.1990   of   the 

inquiry authority on the charges framed and proved. 29. The above were the reasoning by the disciplinary 

authority   for   the   impugned   order.     Such   reasoning 

reflects   application   of   mind   by   the   disciplinary 

authority for passing the impugned order of dismissal 

against the petitioner. 30. Learned   advocate   Mr.R.H.Mehta   relied   on   the 

decision of Learned Single Judge of this Court dated 

28.02.2001 passed in Special Civil Application No.7168 

of 1992 to point out that on similar nature of order Page 28 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT of   the   disciplinary   authority,   the     contention   that 

the same was non speaking order was not accepted.  In 

the said judgment, the Learned Single Judge has held 

and observed in para No.18 and 19 as under:­ 18. The   next   contention   has   been   that,   the  
 order   of   the   Disciplinary   Authority  
 (Annexure­'I')   is   non­speaking   order,   hence   it  
 can   not   be   sustained.   I   have   examined   the  
 impugned   order   contained   in   Annexure­'I'.  
 Paragraph­2 of this order reads as under: 19.   It   is,   therefore,   clear   from   this   order  
 that   the   Disciplinary   Authority   has   considered  
 the   report   of   the   Enquiry   Officer   and   also  
 submissions   of   the   petitioner   against   the  
 report   of   the   Enquiry   Officer   and   plea   of   his  
 innocence.   Since   the   Disciplinary   Authority,  
 after   considering   the   aforesaid   material,  
 decided to agree with the report of the Enquiry  
 Officer,   he   was   not   required   to   write   a  
 detailed   judgment.   In   case   of   confirmation   of  
 the   report   of   the   Enquiry   Officer,   the  
 Disciplinary Authority was justified in passing  
 such order. The order quoted above shows that,  
 the Disciplinary Authority has applied its mind  
 to   all   the   materials   on   record,   including  
 enquiry report and the submissions made by the  
 petitioner   before   him.   As   such,   the   impugned  
 order can not be said to be non­speaking order  
 and   it   can   not   be   set   aside   on   this   ground.  
 Shri   Rajni   H   Mehta,   learned   counsel   for   the  
 respondent   argued   that   the   Vigilance   Officer Page 29 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT was examined  and cross examined  and therefore,  
 there   has   been   no   violation   of   the   principles  
 of natural justice." 31. The   above   observations   of   Learned   Single   Judge 

squarely apply to the impugned order and the impugned 

order,   therefore,  cannot   be   set   aside   on   the  ground 

that it is non speaking order. 32. Now comes the question as to whether alternative 

request   to   direct   the   respondent­Bank   to   pay 

compassionate pension under the pension regulation of 

1995 of the Bank can be considered or not. 33. It   appears   that   the   benefits   under   pension 

regulation   1995   are   intended   to   be   given   to   those 

employees who are dismissed/removed or terminated on 

or   after   01.11.1993.     The   petitioner   was   dismissed 

prior   to   01.11.1993   and   therefore   does   not   become 

entitled to such benefits. Learned advocate Mr.Tanna, 

however,   pointed   out   that   as   per   the   bi­parte 

settlement,   especially   clause   6(b),   the   petitioner 

could be made entitled for compassionate pension.  He 

also placed reliance on a decision of Hon'ble Supreme 

Court in the case of S.K.Kool (supra).  Regulation 31 

of   Dena   Bank   (Employees)   Pension   Regulation,   1995 Page 30 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT reads as under: and (ii) the   case   is   deserving   of   special  
 consideration,   sanction   a   compassionate 
 allowance   not   exceeding   two   thirds   of   the  
 pension which would have been admissible to  
 him   on   the   basis   of   the   qualifying   service  
 rendered   up   to   the   date   of   his   dismissal,  
 removal, or termination." As per this regulation an employee who is dismissed or 

removed or terminated from service shall forfeit his 

pension,   provided   the   authority   higher   than   the 

authority competent to dismiss or remove or terminate 

him   from  service,  may   if   such  dismissal,   removal   or 

termination is on or after 1st  Day of November, 1993 

and   the   case   is   deserving   of   such   consideration, 

sanction a compassionate allowance not exceeding 2/3rd 

of pension which would have been admissible to him on 

the basis of the qualifying service rendered after the 

date of his dismissal, removal or termination. Page 31 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT 34. The   bi­parte   settlement   comes   into   existence   at 

later point of time and it specifically provides that 

an  employee  found  guilty   of   gross   misconduct  may   be 

removed from service with superannuation benefits i.e. 

pension or provident fund, or gratuity as would be due 

otherwise   under   the   Rules   or   regulations   at   the 

relevant time and without disqualification from future 

employment.   Such being not the nature of punishment 

in the case of the petitioner, it is not possible to 

accept the request made on behalf of the petitioner. 

The decision in the case of the S.K.Kool (supra) is 

since   in   the   context   of   clause   6(b)   of   bi­parte 

settlement will be of no help to the petitioner.   In 

the said case, the employee had laid a specific claim 

for   pension  benefits,   which   was   declined   and  he  was 

advised to ask for sanction of compassionate allowance 

in   terms   of   the   bi­parte   settlement.     In   the   said 

case,   the   disciplinary   authority   had   passed   order 

against   the  employee  on  19.09.2003   and  his   case  was 

decided under the bi­parte settlement. It   is   stated   in   the   further   affidavit   in   reply 

filed on behalf of respondent­Bank that the petitioner Page 32 of 33 C/SCA/2095/1993 CAV JUDGMENT was   superannuated   on   30.11.2002   and   was   paid 

Rs.58,736.51   towards   his   provident   fund   contribution 

on 31.12.2002.   It is further stated that since the 

petitioner was dismissed from service on 26.02.1993, 

it   is   not   permissible   under   statutory   regulation   to 

consider   the   case   of   the   petitioner   for   pensionary 

benefits as suggested by the petitioner. 35. Even   otherwise,   no   such   claim   is   part   of   the 

petition.     The   request   for   compassionate   pension   is 

made in the additional affidavit of the petitioner in 

alternative.     Such   request  would  widen  the   scope   of 

the petition and therefore can not be considered. 36. In   view   of   the   above,   the   request   of   the 

petitioner   for   compassionate   pension/allowance   under 

the pension regulation of 1995 cannot be accepted. 37. For   the   reasons   stated   above,   the   petition   is 

dismissed. (C.L.SONI, J.)
ANKIT Page 33 of 33