1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 31.01.2023 seeking information on the
following points: (******7366) के &ारा fraud करके paytm खाता न. (******8194 @ paytm म4

 97519/- 7पये गबन िकये गए ह= I (ii) ले िकन अभी तक गबन िकये गए रािश की कुछ भी सूचना R.B.I पटना एवं S.B.I. सराय

 &ारा सूचना उपलJ नहीं कराई गयी है I (iii) Complaint की छायाOित- R.B.I. पटना एवं S.B.I. सराय थाना Oभारी मनेर पटना I Page 1 of 3 (iv) इस तरह की complaint का िववरण पूवT म4 िकया गया है या नहीं यिद हाँ तो उसकी

 Oितिलिप उपलJ कराई जाये I 2. Aggrieved with the non-response of the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First Appeal
on 02.02.2023. The CPIO replied on 20.02.2023 and the same is reproduced as under: 3. Aggrieved with the non-receipt of FAA's order, the Appellant approached the
Commission with the instant Second Appeal dated 09.05.2023. 4. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Shri Vishal Kumar Saini, Assistant
Manager, attended the hearing through video conference. 5. The appellant inter alia submitted that he was not satisfied with the response given
by the CPIO. 6. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that information
sought by the appellant was not covered within the ambit of Section 2 (f) of the RTI Act.
Moreover, the complaint regarding misappropriation of funds was registered and duly
closed by RBI. 7. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observes that the CPIO has provided an appropriate
reply to the RTI Application as per the provisions of the RTI Act . Further, the appellant
has merely expressed grievance through statements in point nos (i) to (iii) of the RTI
application, which could not be addressed as per Section 2 (f) of the RTI Act. Further, the
respondent has provided the closure report of the complaint in point no. (iv) of the RTI
Application and that being so, the Commission finds no scope of intervention in the matter.
Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- Col S S Chhikara (Retd) कन ल एस एस िछकारा, ( रटायड )
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: