1. By this order I shall dispose of an application under Order 7
 Rule 11 CPC filed by defendant no.2. 2. Briefly stated the case of plaintiff is that he is the owner of shop
 no. 192, Export Market, Sarojini Nagar Market, New Delhi.
 Defendant no.1 is the real brother of plaintiff and defendant no.2 is
 the wife of defendant no.1. Plaintiff executed a General Power of
 Attorney in favour of defendant no.1 out of love and affection and
 Suit No. 632/2008 2 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. got the same duly registered. As per this GPA, the plaintiff
 constituted defendant no.1 to be his attorney in respect of back
 portion of the aforesaid shop comprising of ground floor back
 portion measuring 70 feet X 70 feet and basement 70 feet X 70 feet,
 which is hereinafter referred as suit property. Plaintiff also
 executed a will in respect of the suit property in favour of minor
 son of defendant no.1 and defendant no.2 namely Sajal Kalra.
 These documents were executed by plaintiff with an understanding
 that it would be used for welfare of the minor son of defendant
 no.1 and defendant no.2 when he becomes major. It is alleged that
 defendant no.2 has signed both these documents as witness. 3. It is alleged that plaintiff went to collect the certified copy of
 above stated GPA and will in the office of Sub­Registrar, Kapashera
 (defendant no.3) and while searching the said documents, he found
 another copy of sale deed executed by defendant no.1 in favour of
 defendant no.2. Plaintiff made inquiries from defendant no.1 and
 defendant no.2 as to why the sale deed dated 9.2.2006 was made
 by defendant no.1 in favour of defendant no.2, though the said
 property was given by the plaintiff for welfare of minor Sajal Kalra.
 On further inquiries plaintiff came to know that defendant no.2 has
 played fraud with a view to sell off the suit property. It is alleged
 that defendant no.1 cannot execute any sale deed in favour of wife
 defendant no.2 because actually no consideration was passed on
 the plaintiff. It is alleged that a false receipt of Rs.5 lacs has been
 shown as consideration amount in the said sale deed and that infact
 Suit No. 632/2008 3 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. this amount is stated to have been received by defendant no.1 on
 13.4.2005 and 9.11.2005 i.e. much prior to execution of the sale
 deed. It is alleged that defendant no.1 could not have executed any
 sale deed on 9.2.2006 because the GPA was executed on 20.2.2006
 by the plaintiff in favour of defendant no.1. Even the suit property
 was got freehold on 13.2.2006. It is alleged that there was a well
 planned conspiracy of defendant no.1 and defendant no.2 to cheat
 the plaintiff by blackmailing him emotionally. 4. It was therefore prayed in the plaint that the sale deed dated
 9.2.2006 and GPA dated 20.2.2006 be declared null and void
 having no effect at all. 5. It was further prayed by the plaintiff that defendant no.1 and
 defendant no.2 may be restrained from creating any third party
 interest in the suit property and a decree for declaration may be
 awarded declaring sale deed dated 9.2.2006 executed by defendant
 no.1 in favour of defendant no.2 as null and void. 6. Defendant no.1 stated in written statement that in life time of
 father of plaintiff and defendant no.1, it was mutually agreed that
 front portion would go to the share of plaintiff, whereas the back
 side portion i.e. the suit property would be in the ownership of
 defendant no.1. However the major portion of the suit property
 came in the share of plaintiff when defendant gave NOC. He stated
 that in view of family settlement dated 7.2.2006 defendant no.1
 became the owner of the suit property. He also denied that plaintiff
 executed a GPA in favour of defendant no.1 for the welfare of
 Suit No. 632/2008 4 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. minor child. He stated that defendant no.1 did not play any fraud
 but he was within his rights to sell his property. At present
 defendant no.2 is the owner of the property and he has every right
 to deal with the said property. He explained that in the sale deed
 the date 9.2.2006 was wrongly typed and this fact is clear from the
 fact that this stamp papers for execution and registration of the sale
 deed were purchased on 22.2.2006. Defendant no.1 submitted that
 sale deed is not ante dated. 7. Later on plaintiff amended his suit and brought on record a few
 more facts. In para 16A, which is a new paragraph inserted in
 plaint by way of amendment, it is stated by plaintiff that defendant
 no.1 was a person of weak mind and was an habitual drunkard.
 Defendant no.2 in collusion with one Pradeep Kumar Bhardwaj
 kept him under sedatives and defendant no.2 played a fraud with
 defendant no.1 also. Now defendant no.1 has come out from the
 clutches of defendant no.2 and defendant no.1 has filed a criminal
 complaint against defendant no.2 and Pradeep Kumar Bhardwaj in
 respect of this fraud. It is stated that defendant no.1 told the
 plaintiff that present sale deed and other documents in bank were
 got signed from him under the influence of alcohol and defendant
 no.2 intends to run away with Pradeep Kumar Bhardwaj with all
 the immoveable property. 8. Defendant no.1 filed an amended written statement supporting
 this version of the plaintiff. 9. Defendant no.2 Jyoti Kalra took the same stand which
 Suit No. 632/2008 5 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. defendant no.1 had taken in his original written statement but in
 the entire written statement she did not disclose that she was the
 wife of defendant no.1. Even in her affidavit she identified herself
 Jyoti Kalra D/o Sh. Bhim Sen Batra. However in amended written
 statement she supported her earlier version but she denied the
 accusations of fraud, coercion etc. She however stated that
 defendant no.2 had made the payment by way of cheque which was
 honoured in bank account of defendant no.1. 10. Ld. Counsel for defendant no.2 has moved an application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC submitting that as per the plaint itself the
 plaintiff had executed a power of attorney in favour of defendant
 no.1, who executed a sale deed in favour of defendant no.2. Ld.
 Counsel for defendant no.2 has drawn my attention to Section 226 of Indian Contract Act 1872 and submits that a contract entered
 through an agent will have the same legal consequences, as if the
 contracts had been entered into and the acts done by principle in
 person. It is submitted by Ld. Counsel for defendant no.2 that due
 to this reason the execution of sale deed by defendant no.1in the
 capacity of an attorney of plaintiff in favour of defendant no.2 is
 binding upon the plaintiff. Hence it is prayed by Ld. Counsel for
 defendant no.2 that plaint may be rejected under Order 7 Rule 11
 CPC . It is argued by Ld. Counsel for plaintiff in the said that
 plaintiff is stressing that the sale deed in question has been
 procured by defendant no.2 from defendant no.1 by playing fraud
 upon defendant no.2 as well as under collusion and undue
 Suit No. 632/2008 6 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. influence. Hence the plaintiff prays that the plaintiff would get an
 opportunity to prove the factum of fraud as alleged by him in para
 16A of his plaint. 11. I have considered the submissions of the parties and I have gone
 through the documents. A few facts are apparent on record. The
 power of attorney executed by plaintiff in favour of defendant no.1
 in respect of the suit property has been witnessed by Jyoti Kalra
 wife of Sanjeev Kalra. Similarly the will executed by plaintiff in
 favour of Master Sajal Karla the minor son of defendant no.1 has
 also been witnessed by defendant no.2 wherein she has shown
 herself to be wife of defendant no.1. In the sale deed executed by
 defendant no.1 in favour of defendant no.2, in favour of Jyoti Kalra
 i.e. defendant no.2, she has been shown the wife of defendant no.1.
 However in her written statement, she has not clarified about her
 status vis­a­vis defendant no.1. In para 2 of the original written
 statement of defendant no.2 she has admitted that plaintiff and
 defendant no.1 are brother but in respect of averment that
 defendant no.2 is wife of defendant no.1, defendant no.2 has
 denied this fact in written statement as well as in her amended
 written statement. In the affidavit annexed with the amended
 written statement she stated herself to be the wife of Pradeep
 Bhardwaj. 12. All these facts will have bearing on the case and the plaintiff
 fairly deserves an opportunity to prove its case that these
 documents were procured by defendant no.2 by way of fraud. Ld.
 Suit No. 632/2008 7 Sh. Sanjay Kalra
 Versus
 Sh. Sanjeev Kalra & Ors. Counsel for plaintiff has drawn my attention that the sale deed was
 executed on 9.2.2006, whereas plaintiff had executed the GPA in
 favour of defendant no.1 on 20.2.2006. It is argued that on
 9.2.2006 the defendant no.1 had no authority to execute the sale
 deed. On the other hand Ld. Counsel for defendant has drawn my
 attention that papers in the present case were purchased on
 22.2.2006 and it is only a typographical mistake. I am of the
 opinion that again this would be a matter of evidence and no
 opinion can be given on this point. The law under order 7 Rule 11
 CPC is very clear. If on perusal of the plaint no cause of action is
 disclosed, the plaint has to be rejected. In the present case cause of
 action has arisen on account of reason that plaintiff has alleged in
 para 16A of his plaint that sale deed in question is an outcome of
 fraud, misrepresentation and got signed under the influence of
 liquor, fear and coercion from defendant no.1. 13. In view of these pleadings the plaint cannot be rejected as the
 plaint sufficiently discloses a cause of action. Accordingly the
 application is hereby dismissed. Announced in the open
court on 27.4.2009. (VINOD KUMAR)
 Additional District Judge­20
 Central District, Delhi