% 15.05.2024 1. This application has been preferred on behalf of the applicant under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No.543/2022 dated
 24.11.2022 registered under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B IPC at PS: Vasant Kunj
 South. 2. By order dated 31.08.2023, interim protection was granted to the
 applicant against any coercive action, subject to depositing a sum of Rs.3
 lakhs within one week from the date of the order and parties were referred to
 Delhi High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre for exploring the
 possibility of an amicable settlement. 3. Status Report has been filed on behalf of the State. 4. Case of the prosecution as forthcoming from the FIR and the Status
 Report is that present FIR was registered on complaint of Deepak Kumar
 alleging that applicant and Shamsher Khan had cheated him by selling a flat
 bearing No. B-252, Upper Ground Floor, Vasant Kunj Enclave, New Delhi. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:23
 Complainant alleged that the applicant approached him along with a local
 property dealer namely, Shamsher Khan to sell the aforesaid flat
 representing that the applicant was the actual owner. After some
 negotiations, an Agreement to Sell was executed on 05.10.2021 between the
 applicant and the complainant in the office of Shamsher Khan for a total sale
 consideration of Rs. 48 lakhs and Shamsher Khan signed as a witness on the
 agreement. Out of the sale consideration, complainant transferred Rs.15
 lakhs in the account of the applicant and Rs.2.5 lakhs was paid in cash to
 Shamsher Khan. However, after receiving the payments, both started
 avoiding him and failed to execute the title documents. It was alleged that
 when the complainant visited the flat, he discovered that the real owner was
 Ms. Sudha Kalia, who was staying abroad and her sister Madhu Monga was
 the caretaker of the flat. Complainant was informed that the flat had never
 been sold to any party nor was it put up for sale. This led to filing of the
 complaint and registration of the present FIR. 5. It is stated in the status report that during the investigation, bank
 statements of complainant's accounts were verified and his version was
 corroborated. Two witnesses were examined, who also supported the version
 of the complainant. Investigation so far has revealed that the applicant along
 with her associates has taken Rs. 15 lakhs from the complainant, which
 amount was directly credited into her bank account and Rs.2.5 lakhs were
 taken by the other accused person. Applicant is a habitual offender and as
 many as 5 other FIRs have been registered against her under Sections
 406 / 420 / 120B IPC apart from 3 complaints under Section 138 of the
 Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and 2 civil suits for recovery of money.
 During the investigation, notice under Section 41A Cr.P.C. was served on BAIL APPLN. 2912/2023 Page 2 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:23
 the applicant but she did not turn up for investigation. She has joined
 investigation after the interim protection granted by this Court but is not co-
 operating. Applicant has only deposited Rs.50,000/- as against a sum of Rs.3
 lakhs, subject to which interim protection was granted to her and has no
 regard for the orders of this Court. It is stated that custodial interrogation of
 the applicant is required for recovery of the amount and to unearth the larger
 scam, in which the applicant is involved and is repeatedly cheating people of
 their hard-earned money. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. The dispute, if any,
 relating to the property in question is a civil dispute and is being given a
 colour of criminal culpability by the complainant. Applicant is a genuine
 purchaser of the flat by means of a sale and purchase agreement from one
 Imran to whom applicant has paid a sum of Rs.15 lakhs as earnest money.
 When the applicant discovered that she was deceived by Imran, she instantly
 returned Rs.15 lakhs to Shamsher Khan and has also filed a complaint
 against the co-accused Imran for cheating and fraud. Despite the alleged
 involvement of Shamsher Khan, neither any investigation has been done
 against him nor attempts have been made to arrest him. 7. It is further urged that applicant has joined investigation as and when
 called for and is co-operating therein. Applicant has deep roots in the society
 and there is no chance of her absconding, if the pre-arrest bail is confirmed
 and undertakes to extend full co-operation in the investigation. Severity of
 the allegations cannot be a ground to deny bail as held by this Court in Jagdish Nautiyal v. State , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 5940. In P.
 Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24, the BAIL APPLN. 2912/2023 Page 3 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:23
 Supreme Court has observed that by merely asserting that the offence is
 grave, grant of bail cannot be thwarted. Bail is a rule and denial is exception. 8. Learned APP for the State, per contra, strenuously opposes the bail
 application. It is stated that the applicant is a habitual offender and has been
 repeatedly cheating innocent people of their hard-earned money. Knowing
 fully well that applicant was not the owner of the flat in question, she
 fraudulently entered into an agreement to sell with the complainant and
 received Rs.15 lakhs in her bank account, which is an admitted position.
 Return of this money after the offence is committed and that too to the co-
 accused and not the complainant, cannot lessen the gravity of the offence.
 Applicant has not complied with the pre-condition of interim protection
 granted by the Court and chose to deposit only Rs.50,000/- out of the
 directed amount of Rs.3 lakhs. Custodial interrogation of the applicant is
 required to unearth the larger scam and recover the amounts received by the
 applicant as well as other documents. 9. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned APP for the State. 10. As per the prosecution case, applicant entered into an agreement to
 sell with the complainant with respect to the flat in question and bank details
 of the applicant revealed that a sum of Rs.15 lakhs was received by her from
 the complainant. Agreement to Sell dated 05.10.2021 has been placed on
 record, which is duly signed by the applicant and it is stated therein that
 applicant is the owner and in possession of the flat in question. Sale
 consideration of Rs.48 lakhs is also mentioned in the Agreement. Even
 today, counsel for the applicant is not in denial of the fact that the agreement
 to sell was executed and Rs.15 lakhs were received by the applicant. The
 only defence is that the applicant had bonafidely purchased the flat from one BAIL APPLN. 2912/2023 Page 4 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:24
 Imran and was not aware that her ownership was unlawful. At this stage, it
 cannot be overlooked that without any title document in her favour and
 without disclosing this crucial fact to the complainant, agreement to sell was
 executed. While it is a settled law that pendency of other cases may not be
 the only consideration to deny bail and the case before the Court ought to be
 adjudicated on its own merits, however, in the present case, it is crucial to
 note that the other FIRs are also for offences relating to cheating the other
 complainants. The two civil suits filed against the applicant are for recovery
 of money and the three complaints are under Section 138 of the NI Act for
 dishonour of cheques issued by her. Holistically seen, applicant has a
 propensity to enter into transactions with innocent persons with intent to
 cheat and defraud. Applicant's counsel has emphasised that the money taken
 from the complainant has been returned to Shamsher Khan. This defence is
 neither here nor there. Moreover, this cannot reduce the gravity of the crime
 allegedly committed. In Pratibha Manchanda and Another v. State of
 Haryana and Another , (2023) 8 SCC 181, the Supreme Court while setting
 aside the order of the High Court granting anticipatory bail to the accused
 made the following observations:- 11. The Supreme Court further observed that the relief of anticipatory bail
 is aimed at safeguarding individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to BAIL APPLN. 2912/2023 Page 5 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:24
 prevent misuse of power of arrest and protects innocent individuals from
 harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a delicate balance
 between individual rights and interests of justice. The tight rope the Courts
 must walk lies in striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights
 and protecting public interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of
 innocence are vital, Court must also consider gravity of the offence, impact
 on the society and need for a fair and free investigation. 12. Factors to be taken into account while considering grant of
 anticipatory bail application have been delineated by the Supreme Court in
 the case of Sumitha Pradeep v. Arun Kumar C.K. and Another , 2022
 SCC OnLine SC 1529 and are: (a) prima facie case against the accused; (b) nature of offence; and (c) severity of the punishment. This Court in Haresh Kumar Choudhary v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2023 SCC OnLine Del
 1877, relying on the observations of the Supreme Court in State Rep. By
 The C.B.I. v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, dismissed the anticipatory
 bail application on the ground that custodial interrogation of the applicant
 was required. Relevant passage from the judgment of the Supreme Court in
 Anil Sharma (supra) is as follows:- (emphasis supplied) 13. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra and
 Others , (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Supreme Court considered the principles laid
 down by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Shri Gurbaksh
 Singh Sibbia and Others v. State of Punjab , (1980) 2 SCC 565 and held as
 follows:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:24 (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is only
 the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in the
 matter of grant of bail and in the event of there being some doubt as to
 the genuineness of the prosecution, in the normal course of events, the
 accused is entitled to an order of bail." 14. In P. Chidambaram (supra), relied upon by the applicant, the
 Supreme Court observed that grant of anticipatory bail at the stage of
 investigation may frustrate the investigating agency in interrogating the
 accused and collecting useful information. Relevant observations of the
 Supreme Court are as follows:- 15. The allegations are serious and as per the State, custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is required as she needs to be confronted with
 several documents and the money trail needs to be unearthed. Applicant is
 not co-operating in the investigation armed with a protection order granted
 by this Court and has admittedly failed to abide by the condition of grant of
 interim protection by not depositing the sum of Rs.3 lakhs, for which even
 today, learned counsel is unable to offer any plausible explanation. 16. For all the aforesaid reasons, the interim protection granted to the
 applicant is withdrawn forthwith and present application is dismissed.
 Pending application also stands disposed of. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:24 17. Needless to state the observations made in the present order are purely
 for the purpose of adjudicating the present application and shall not be
 construed as expression of an opinion on merits of the matter. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MAY 15, 2024/kks/shivam BAIL APPLN. 2912/2023 Page 9 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/05/2024 at 21:46:24