Complainant-petitioner has laid this misc. petition
 under Section 482 Cr.P.C. seeking necessary directions
 against investigating agency to conduct fair and
 impartial investigation into FIR No.580/2013, registered
 at Police Station Mahamandir, Jodhpur. Alternatively, it
 is prayed that investigation may be transferred to CBI. In a nutshell, the facts of the case are that, on
09.10.2013, petitioner-complainant filed a criminal
complaint before Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate
No.3, Jodhpur (for short, 'learned trial Court') against
twenty-nine persons without disclosing identity of
anyone of them. In the complaint, Dr. A.C. Muthiya,
Chairman of M/s. First Leasing Company of India Ltd.
(for short, 'Company'), was arrayed as accused No.1
besides other accused persons. The apposite facts
averred in the complaint are as follows: With this booming financial status, it is also averred in
the complaint that Company has availed credit facility
from 14 banks to the tune of Rs.1200 crores. The
complaint further unfolds that those in helm of affairs
of the Company, by projecting embellished version of
its financial status, accumulated a huge amount to the
tune of Rs.1500 crores from different sources; viz.,
public and right issue of shares, loan instruments
(debentures) etc. In order to attract and induce the
investors, the persons in helm of affairs of the
Company, also indicated the value of the shares over
and above its intrinsic value periodically. The requisite
figures from year 1974 to 2010 are also mentioned in [4] the complaint in ascending orders. The complainant
has specifically pleaded that all the figures showing
share value of the Company in ascending order were
manipulated and maneuvered by the Directors of the
Company and, those who are in helm of affairs of the
Company while camouflaging the actual value of share
which was far below. As per version of the
complainant, entire record including Balance-sheets,
Profit & Loss Accounts, reports of Board of Directors,
flow of funds, declaration of dividends, ratings and
track record were tampered with and manipulated for
showing pseudo progress and enhancement in its
capital. This sort of situation allured the investors to
make maximum investment in the Company for
deriving future profits. The complainant has specifically pleaded in his
complaint that he started investment in the Company
from year 2011 through his Demat Account
No.12013700-00292894 of his Jodhpur residential
address and in the interregnum period from 2011 to
2013, he purchased shares of the Company worth
Rs.1.75 crores approximately. With a view to show his
allegations against the accused persons, named in the
complaint, and their criminal delinquency, it is
submitted that entire investment in purchase of shares
of the Company was made by him entirely on the basis
of Balance-sheet, Profit & Loss Account, financial status
and credit ratings published in newspapers, magazines
and displayed through electronic and digital media. As [5] such, according to the complaint, the petitioner was
induced by accused-persons for making such huge
investment in purchase of shares. It is narrated with clarity and precision in the
complaint that on 21st of August, 2013 Reserve Bank of
India started inspection of the accounts of the
Company and pursuant thereto notice under Section
45N of the Act was issued to it. During inspection
carried out by the Reserve Bank of India from 26th
August 2013 to 1st of September 2013, RBI made
endeavour to inspect Balance-sheets, ledger accounts
and other books of the Company and thereupon issued
stern directions to the Managing Director of the
Company on 4th of September, 2013 on following
terms :- A further direction was issued to the Managing
Director to recast Balance-sheet and Profit & Loss
Account of the Company for the year ending on 31st of
March, 2013 and next quarter ending on 30th of June,
2013. In response to the directions of RBI, Balance-
sheet and Profit & Loss Account of the Company were
re-casted showing substantial diminution under the
head "Stock on Hire" inasmuch as earlier assets under
this head were shown as 1588.35 crores and after re-
casting the value of assets was reduced to Rs.30.5219 [6] crores only. This sort of situation, as per complainant,
clearly and unequivocally indicates that Balance-sheet
has shown worth of the assets under the head "Stock
on Hire" 52% higher than the actual worth of the
assets. On the strength of these figures, the petitioner
has castigated the accused-persons for practicising
fraud with investors and charged them for siphoning
public money with ill-motive. Similar example is also
quoted with respect to the figures shown in Balance-
sheet for "Net Lease Investment" as well as "Loan &
Advances" and "Intangible Assets", which are also
substantially reduced after recasting of Balance-sheets
and Profit & Loss Accounts of the Company pursuant to
directions issued by RBI. Besides that, complaint also discloses that the
Company has disclosed value of its assets
approximately Rs.1676 crores, more than the actual
value of the assets as certified by the Reserve Bank of
India. Attributing role of the accused persons in this
serious bungling, petitioner has pleaded in the
complaint that it is a clear case of fraud and financial
scam by the accused persons for their wrongful gains
by causing wrongful loss to the investors including the
petitioner. The petitioner has also charged the accused-
persons for the offence of criminal breach of trust for [7] siphoning property of investors. The petitioner has also
exposed other misdeeds of the accused-persons to
show their criminal delinquency by stating in the
complaint that Company's profits are falsely shown
towards higher side by distributing dividends @ 35%
per annum instead of 18% to the investors. This
entire manipulation and maneuvering was carried out
by the accused-persons in a calculated manner keeping
themselves behind the curtains to grab huge amount to
the tune of Rs.1500 crores. Referring to Section 217 (2AA) of the Companies
Act, the petitioner has also averred in the complaint
that issuing requisite certificate by the Board of
Directors of Company about accounting standards is
sufficient to prove their active involvement in
commission of offence under various Sections of Indian
Penal Code . The complaint also indicates that, in this
entire fraud, besides the Directors other office bearers
of the Company were also involved, and therefore, they
are also liable to be prosecuted. The complainant, in order to substantiate the
allegations, has also reproduced the text of order dated
13th of September, 2013 issued by Reserve Bank of
India, addressed to the Managing Director of the
Company, which reads as under:- It appears that despite seeking four months' time
by the investigating agency, investigation was not
completed in the matter and therefore on 18th January
2016, the Court, after perusing the case diary, passed
following order: Thereafter, learned Public Prosecutor sought time to file
additional submissions in the matter, which were
submitted on 27th of September 2016. In the
interregnum, on 21st of July, 2016 learned Addl.
Advocate General informed the Court that investigating
officer has already submitted final report before the
concerned Court. The submission of final report in the matter
precisely on the ground of jurisdiction obviously gave a
big jolt and blow to the petitioner in achieving his
cherished mission/goal. This changed scenario and its
possible ramification on the entire matter has brought
plea of the respondent that petition has gone
infructuous. Indisputably, this sort of situation, which
has come to the fore during pendency of the petition,
has acquired significance and cannot be underplayed.
However, keeping in view the fact that instant petition
is pending before this Court since 2014 and indulgence
has been granted by the Court, the grounds for
submission of negative final report by the investigating
agency merits judicial scrutiny by this Court. It may be
observed here that the negative final report is
essentially founded on jurisdiction not touching the
alleged criminal delinquency of the accused persons
named in the complaint, and therefore, I feel
persuaded to examine the matter in light of legal
precedents on which the petitioner has placed heavy
reliance. In Rasiklal Dalpatram Thakkar (supra), Supreme
Court, upon harmonious construction of Section 156(3) and Section 181(4) Cr.P.C., pleased to observe that a
Magistrate can issue direction for investigation under Section 156(3) . On jurisdiction of territorial limit, for
inquiry or trial under Section 181(4) , the Court held: Sub-section (4) only indicates that an inquiry or
trial of an offence of criminal misappropriation or
criminal breach of trust can be conducted by a
court within whose jurisdiction the offence had
been committed or any part of the property
forming the subject-matter of the offence is
received or retained or was required to be
returned or accounted for by the accused
person. The said provisions do not account for a
stage contemplated on account of an order
made under Section 156(3) CrPC. 26. In the instant case, the stage
contemplated under Section 181(4) CrPC has
not yet been reached. Prior to taking cognizance
on the complaint filed by the Bank, the learned
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad had
directed an inquiry under Section 156(3) CrPC
and as it appears, a final report was submitted
by the investigating agency entrusted with the
investigation stating that since the alleged
transactions had taken place within the
territorial limits of the city of Mumbai, no cause
of action had arisen in the State of Gujarat and
therefore, the investigation should be
transferred to the police agency in Mumbai.
There seems to be little doubt that the Economic
Offences Wing, State CID (Crime), which had
been entrusted with the investigation, had upon
initial inquiries recommended that the [20] investigation be transferred to the police agency
 of Mumbai." In State of Punjab (supra), Supreme Court, while
adverting to the inherent powers of High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C., held that in exercise of such
powers, Court can order fresh investigation or re-
investigation under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. even after
filing of challan or chargesheet by the police for
securing ends of justice. 24. It is clear from the aforesaid observations
 of this Court that the investigating agency or the
 court subordinate to the High Court exercising
 powers under CrPC have to exercise the powers
 within the four corners of CrPC and this would
 mean that the investigating agency may
 undertake further investigation and the
 subordinate court may direct further investigation
 into the case where charge-sheet has been filed
 under sub-section (2) of Section 173 CrPC and
 such further investigation will not mean fresh
 investigation or reinvestigation. But these
 limitations in sub-section (8) of Section 173 CrPC
 in a case where charge-sheet has been filed will
 not apply to the exercise of inherent powers of the
 High Court under Section 482 CrPC for securing
 the ends of justice. In V.K. Sasikala (supra), Supreme Court has
although concluded that Courts have minimum role for
interference during investigation but duly
acknowledged power of a Court under Section 172(2) and observed that the plenary power conferred on the
High Courts by Article 226 of the Constitution are
adequate safeguards to ensure conduct of a fair
investigation. The Court held: In Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah (supra), the
Supreme Court on Administration of Criminal Justice,
while acknowledging right of an accused for fair and
speedy trial has duly recognized such right of the
victim. The Court held: Accordingly, the sweeping power of
 investigation does not warrant subjecting a
 citizen each time to fresh investigation by
 the police in respect of the same incident,
 giving rise to one or more cognizable
 offences. As a consequence, in our view
 this is a fit case for quashing the second [24] FIR to meet the ends of justice. 58.10. The investigating officers are the
 kingpins in the criminal justice system.
 Their reliable investigation is the leading
 step towards affirming complete justice to
 the victims of the case. Hence they are
 bestowed with dual duties i.e. to
 investigate the matter exhaustively and
 subsequently collect reliable evidences to
 establish the same. In Subrata Chattoraj (supra), Supreme Court has
taken note of some facts indicating towards promises
made by the chit fund company to its investors, almost
akin to the present case, and observed: 12. The Report suggests that the
investors were promised very high returns
by way of interest rate ranging from 10%
to 18%. The said returns promised to the
depositors were, according to the Report,
too good to be true. The Report also
suggests that a very large number of
"agents base" was created by the
companies to extend the reach of these
companies. For Saradha Realty India Ltd.
itself as many as 2,21,000 agents were
working, who were paid an unreasonably
high brokerage of 30% of the instrument
which became the driving force for the
agents to go that extra mile to collect as
much as possible. The Report indicates
that investments that matured for
payment were paid out of the cash
collected from new members which was
opposed to the normal business norms in
which returns ought to be paid out of
profits earned in the business. Besides, the
cash collections were neither accurately
shown in the books of accounts, nor did
the bank accounts reveal the details of
such cash collections. 13. The Report states that the company
had no real intention of doing any
legitimate business activity and the money [27] collected from the public was spread over
 160 companies and spent away or
 siphoned off. No major revenue was seen
 to be generated by any group company.
 The companies had opened too many bank
 accounts for round tripping transactions for
 the monies collected by them. Apart from
 as many as 218 branches spread over
 several States including West Bengal,
 Odisha, Bihar, Assam and other States the
 companies had as many as 347 bank
 accounts in 15 banks in the name of the
 Group Companies. The bank accounts were
 opened at the location of branches
 enabling deposit of the cash into accounts.
 The daily cash collected less expenses, was
 deposited at branch account and the
 money pooled and transferred to other
 accounts as per CMD's instructions and
 utilised to issue the cheques. 14. The Report also points out violation
 of the Securities and the Exchange Board
 of India Act, 1992 , the Companies Act,
 1956 , the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the Income Tax Act, 1961 . It also
 points out fraudulent certification, non-
 compliance with accounting standards,
 material misstatement of facts and gross
 negligence on the part of the statutory
 auditors." Thereafter, the Supreme Court proceeded to
summarize the principles concerning power of the Court
to direct CBI to take up investigation and held: That such huge collections could have
international money laundering dimensions
cannot be ruled out and needs to be effectively
investigated. 35.5. That investigation so far conducted
reveals involvement of several political and
other influential personalities wielding
considerable clout and influence. 35.6. That the role of regulators like SEBI,
authorities under the Companies Act and
Reserve Bank of India is also under
investigation by the State Police Agency which
may have to be taken to its logical conclusion
by an effective and independent investigation. 36. The question is whether the above
features call for transfer of the on-going
investigation from the State Police to CBI. Our
answer is in the affirmative. Each one of the
aspects set out above in our view calls for
investigation by an independent agency like the
Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). That is
because apart from the sensitivity of the issues
involved, especially inter-State ramifications of
the scam under investigation, transfer of cases [29] from the State Police have been ordered by this
Court also with a view to ensure credibility of
such investigation in the public perception.
Transfers have been ordered by this Court even
in cases where the family members of the
victim killed in a firing incident had expressed
apprehensions about the fairness of the
investigation and prayed for entrusting the
matter to a credible and effective agency like
CBI. 37. Investigation by the State Police in a
scam that involves thousands of crores collected
from the public allegedly because of the
patronage of people occupying high positions in
the system will hardly carry conviction
especially when even the regulators who were
expected to prevent or check such a scam
appear to have turned a blind eye to what was
going on. The State Police Agency has done well
in making seizures, in registering cases, in
completing investigations in most of the cases
and filing charge-sheets and bringing those who
are responsible to book. The question, however,
is not whether the State Police has faltered. The
question is whether what is done by the State
Police is sufficient to inspire confidence of those
who are aggrieved. 38. While we do not consider it necessary to
go into the question whether the State Police
have done all that it ought to have done, we
need to point out that money trail has not yet
been traced. The collections made from the
public far exceed the visible investment that the
investigating agencies have till now identified.
So also the larger conspiracy angle in the States
of Assam, Odisha and West Bengal although
under investigation has not made much
headway partly because of the inter-State
ramifications, which the investigating agencies
need to examine but are handicapped in
examining. 39. M/s Vaidyanathan and Gopal
Subramanium, learned counsel for the States of
West Bengal and Odisha respectively argued
that CBI itself has in a great measure lost its [30] credibility and is no longer as effective and
 independent as it may have been in the past.
 Similar sentiments were expressed by Mr P.V.
 Shetty appearing on behalf of some of the
 investors and some other intervenors, who
 followed suit to pursue a similar line of
 argument. 40. There is, in our opinion, no basis of the
 apprehension expressed by the State
 Governments. It is true that a lot can be said
 about the independence of CBI as a premier
 investigating agency but so long as there is
 nothing substantial affecting its credibility it
 remains a premier investigating agency. Those
 not satisfied with the performance of the State
 Police more often than not demand
 investigation by CBI for it inspires their
 confidence. We cannot, therefore, decline
 transfer of the cases only because of certain
 stray observations or misplaced apprehensions
 expressed by those connected with the scam or
 those likely to be affected by the investigation." In Dharampal (supra) Supreme Court has
reiterated the principle that even after commencement
of trial Constitutional Courts can direct for further
investigation or re-investigation by some other agency
by resorting to Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. The Court held: In Lee Kun Hee & Ors (supra), Supreme Court has
examined Section 179 and 181(4) Cr.P.C. in
conjunction with Section 182 Cr.P.C. more particularly
in relation to offence of cheating through
communications/letters/messages and concluded that
the Court within whose jurisdiction the said
communications/letters/messages were sent (or were
received), would be competent to inquire into and try
the same. The Court held: In Punjab & Haryana High Court Bar Association (supra), Supreme Court, upon consideration of some
glaring facts, wherein an advocate was allegedly
abducted and murdered with his wife and child, set
aside the order passed by the High Court dismissing
the PIL and directed for handing over investigation to
independent agency even after submission of
chargesheet. The Court held: The legal position which has emerged out, from
the above referred authoritative judicial
pronouncements, clearly and unequivocally indicate
that jurisdiction of a Court to make inquiry or trial of a
case requires threadbare examination as per Section
179 and Section 181 Cr.P.C. Sub-sec.(4) of Section
181 Cr.P.C. envisages with clarity and precision that
any offence of criminal misappropriation or of criminal
breach of trust may be inquired into or tried by a Court
within whose local jurisdiction the offence was
committed or any part of the property which is the
subject of the offence was received or retained, or was
required to be returned or accounted for, by the
accused persons. The glaring facts of the case are an
eye opener and therefore it is rather difficult to permit
investigating agency to close the case on the ground of
jurisdiction. A vital fact about the status of the
petitioner as shareholder receiving dividend or other
communications/letters/messages at Jodhpur, within
the jurisdiction of learned trial Court, are some of the
important aspects which require judicial scrutiny. Be that as it may, the fact remains that final
report/conclusions have been submitted by the
investigating agency before the learned trial Court, this
Court not being abreast with the reasons assigned by
the investigating agency for showing its inability to
investigate the matter, deem it just and appropriate to
dispose of the petition with following directions: ( P.K. LOHRA ),J. a.asopa/-