By this Common order, Original Petition Nos.816 to 818 and 820 of 2017, seeking the appointment of an arbitrator under section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 ('Act'), Original Applications in O.A. Nos.617 and 618 of 2017, seeking interim relief under section 9 of the Act and Application Nos.6305, 6306, 5657 and 5658 of 2017 stand disposed of. The interim relief sought for in the section 9 applications is the grant of an injunction restraining the respondents from adjusting debit notes issued by them amounting in all to a sum of Rs.11,40,87,166/- against the deposits made by the applicant and directing the respondents to continue with the supply of gas during the currency of the agreements entered into by and between the parties. 2. Since the background in relation to the Original Applications as well as the Original Petitions are common, I set out the brief facts as hereunder. To be noted is the admitted position that the relevant terms and conditions of the three agreements that are the subject matter of this order are similar/identical and reference to a specific Article in one agreement will include similar/identical clauses in other agreements as well: 3. On 15.5.17, Arkay confirms its acceptance of the conditions imposed by GAIL and extracted above. Since Arkay continued to default on the MGO obligations, GAIL issued debit notes dated 29.5.2017 raising a total demand of Rs.11,40,87,166/-. In response to Arkay's persistent efforts to persuade GAIL to waive the MGO claims, GAIL, vide letter dated 1.6.17 rejects the request pointing out that reference to the earlier instance when GAIL had dropped the claim was misplaced and could not be invoked by Arkay. GAIL would state that the earlier instance was solely on account of the gesture of ONGC not to enforce its claim as against GAIL, such concession being passed on to Arkay by GAIL as provided for under the terms of contract. The waiver was one time and could not be quoted as a precedent. GAIL thus called upon Arkay to remit the sum of Rs.11.41 crore within 24 hours. The demand for the period 2016-17 is reiterated on 5.6.17 by GAIL under threat of stoppage of future supplies till such time all arrears are cleared. The requests from Arkay continue and finally, by letter dated 16.6.17, GAIL agrees not to interrupt the supply of gas upon condition that the balance of Rs.2,70,87,166/-, after adjustment of a sum of Rs.8,70,00,000/- be remitted in settlement of debit notes dated 29.5.2017 and an LC or SD for a sum of Rs.8,70,00,000/- be furnished in terms of the Agreements. 4. This was the cue for the present applications to be filed. An order of Status Quo was passed on 19.06.2017 and an order of interim injunction on 20.6.2017 after hearing both parties that has been subsequently extended from time to time. Though Mr.Benjamin George, learned counsel for Arkay would emphasize that GAIL had withdrawn debit notes earlier under identical circumstances, GAIL is not inclined to repeat it this time around and contests the present applications vehemently. 5. The agreements contain a clause for arbitration that has been invoked by Arkey on 22.3.2017. In the light of the concurrence expressed by Mr. P.V.S.Giridhar, learned counsel appearing for GAIL, the prayer of Arkay for appointment of arbitrators in O.P. No. 816 to 818 and 820 of 2017 is accepted. 6. By consent of both learned counsel, I appoint Mr.Justice AR.Lakshmanan, Judge (Retd) Supreme Court to adjudicate upon the disputes inter se the parties arising from Agreements dated 24.12.2010, 30.12.2015 and Term Sheet dated 07.03.2013 and side letter 'B' 18.04.2013. He is requested to enter reference in the matter, issue notice and adjudicate upon the issues in dispute after hearing the parties. He is at liberty to fix his schedule of fees and expenses that shall be borne by both parties equally. The agreements provide for the venue of the arbitration to be Delhi. Both learned counsel agree that the venue of arbitration would be decided by the Learned Arbitrator in conjunction with the parties. O.P. Nos.816 to 818 and 820 of 2017 are allowed. 7. The Section 9 applications pray for an injunction restraining GAIL from proceeding further with the adjustment of the debit notes and directing it to continue with the supply of gas, pending arbitration. The arguments of Mr.George in this regard are as follows: 8. Mr.Giridhar would counter the arguments stating that the non-lifting of power by TANGEDCO is not an act of God but an act of Arkay for which it has to assume full responsibility. GAIL would allege that it was the poor marketing strategy of Arkay that was responsible for the poor business with TANGEDCO also pointing out that TANGEDCO, in fact, pays a minimum compensation if the shortfall in offtake dips below a stipulated level. GAIL would also state that there had been contunuous defaults in lifting of gas by Arkay despite GAIL's readiness to supply. Reliance is placed on various letters exchanged between the parties to establish the aforesaid position. As regards the allegation of Arkay that it was estopped from complying with the obligations on account of the order of priority thrust upon it, GAIL would point out that even prior to amendment the contractual obligations could have been met by Arkay by proper and judicious selection of one or two among the three types of gases, APM, MDP-1 and MDP-2 to supply. The specific case of GAIL is that the embargo harped upon by Arkay is on account of a commercial decision made by it and not on account of any default or delay by GAIL. GAIL would also highlight the position that the MGO claim on Arkay emanated solely from the corresponding claim made upon GAIL by ONGC. As a matter of fact, such claim had been waived by ONGC earlier paving the way for GAIL to extend the same benefit to Arkay as a consequence. In the present case, ONGC has not, till date, waived its claim. 9. Mr.Benjamin relies on the following cases: 10. Heard learned counsel. I proceed to examine the prayer for interim relief on the anvil of whether there is a prima facie case and irreparable injury established and the balance of convenience as between the parties. Before doing so, I refer to the principles governing the grant of an injunction against invocation of bank guarantee that are well settled by a catena of judgements of the Supreme Court. To cite a few: 13. Guarantee given by the bank to the appellant contains only the condition that in case of breach by the lead promoter, viz., the first respondent of the conditions of LoI, the appellant is free to invoke the bank guarantee and the bank should honour it  without any demur, merely on a demand from GMB (appellant) stating that the said lead promoter failed to perform the covenants. It has also been undertaken by the bank that such written demand from the appellant on the bank shall be  conclusive, absolute and unequivocal as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this guarantee. Between the appellant and the first respondent, in the event of failure to perform the obligations under the LoI dated 06.02.2008, the appellant was entitled to cancel the LoI and invoke the bank guarantee. On being satisfied that the first respondent has failed to perform its obligations as covenanted, the appellant cancelled the LoI and resultantly invoked the bank guarantee. Whether the cancellation is legal and proper, and whether on such cancellation, the bank guarantee could have been invoked on the extreme situation of the first respondent justifying its inability to perform its obligations under the LoI etc., are not within the purview of an inquiry under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Between the bank and the appellant, the moment there is a written demand for invoking the bank guarantee pursuant to breach of the covenants between the appellant and the first respondent, as satisfied by the appellant, the bank is bound to honour the payment under the guarantee. ( ii) Adani Agri Fresh Limited vs Mahaboob Sharif and others ((2016) 14 SCC 517)
 The Bench reiterates the same principles as noted in the above judgements and, citing U.P.Coop Federation Ltd vs Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd (( 19880 1 SCC 174), Vinitic Electronics (P) Ltd vs HCL Infosystems Ltd (( 2008) 1 SCC 544), BSESs ' case ( supra), Himadri 's case ( supra) and Mahatma Gandhi Sahakra Karkhane vs National Heavy Engineering Coop Ltd ((2007) 6 SCC 470), rejects the prayer for injunction. (iii) In General Electric Technical Services Company Inc. v. Punj Sons (P) Ltd., ((1994) 4 SCC 230) the Supreme Court held: In Bses ' case (supra) the Court considered the grant of injunction pending proceedings for Arbitration, holding thus: 11. Mr.George relies on Gangothri's case (supra). The bank guarantee in that case had been furnished in respect of another contract and not that in which the demand for money had been made. Further, the guarantee had been of the nature of a performance guarantee and admittedly, the respondent had recorded satisfaction that the work entrusted had been completed to its satisfaction. Though the Bench also notes that the the guarantee ought not to have been invoked during the pendency of proceedigs for arbitration, the other circumstances noted above weighed substantially with the Court. I am thus of the view that the facts are distinguishable and reliance on this case by Arkay is misplaced. 12. Mr.George also relies on OPG 's case (supra). This was a matter involving supplies by GAIL where the Division Bench of this Court granted an injunction upon ensuring that sufficient security was furnished by the private party. As noted elsewhere, learned counsel for Arkay was specifically asked if alternate security could be furnished but the response was in the negative. This case also, thus, does not advance the case of Arkay. 13. A compelling case has been made out by Mr.Benjamin alleging fraud on the part of GAIL. According to him, GAIL had, in identical situations for the earlier period, come forward to settle the dispute and there were no change in circumstances for the current period. The only reason, according to him, for the difference in stand adopted by GAIL now was that for the subsequent periods, Arkay had entered into direct arrangements with ONGC which had not found favour with GAIL. Naturally, this has been denied by GAIL. Be that as it may, this cannot evidently amount to egregious fraud necessary to warrant interference at this stage. The Supreme Court in A.Ayyasamy V. A.Paramasivam & Ors.(Judgement in Civil Appeal Nos. 8245 and 8246 of 2016 dated 04.10.2016) considered an allegation of fraud in the context of an application under Section 8 of the Act filed by a party to the Suit for reference of the dispute to an Arbitrator. The Trial Court as well as the High Court dismissed the application under Section 8 holding that there were serious allegations of fraud and malpractice committed by the other party and as such the competent Court to consider such a factual matrix would be the Trial Court rather than an Aribtral Tribunal. In appeal before the Supreme Court the Bench observes that the Arbitration and Conciliation Act does not exclude any specific category of disputes as non-arbitrable per se. This observation was made in the context of demarcating the limits of judicial intervention in matters where parties have agreed to arbitraton which the Court states should be very limited and minimal. Section 5 of the Act makes it more than clear that there should be no judicial intervention except in matters where such intervention is specifically provided. This mandate is echoed in the context of Section 16 of the Act which provides for the competence of the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. 14. The Bench, in Ayyasamy (supra) observed as follows: 15. The conclusion of the Bench was that except if the allegations of fraud were so grave and apparant so as to confirm straight away such allegation, it must be left to the Tribunal to consider and decide the question under Section 16 of the Act. In the present matter, the allegations of fraud do not impinge upon the arbitrabiity of the dispute itself since both parties have consented to go before the Arbitrator. The allegation is made only in the context of grant of interim relief and does not, prima facie, appear convincing. No instance of fraud, let alone egregious fraud has been made out. GAIL is, after all, a public sector undertaking, and the fact that it did waive an earlier identical demand when the primary liability initially cast upon it by ONGC was lifted, reveals to me that its conduct is, prima facie, non-partisan. The arguments advanced now centre upon the interpretation of the terms of the agreements and are best left to the learned Arbirator for decision. 16. I am of the considered view that both parties have established a reasonably meritorious case, prima facie, and the rival contentions will have to be examined in the process of arbitration to decide one way or the other. As far as the other exception, that is, the causing of irreparable injury or 'special equities' that favour the grant of injunction, is concerned, the adjustment of the debit notes against the Security Deposit and the further condition imposed by GAIL upon Arkay for furnishing a LC or SD for an amount of Rs.8,70,00,000/- may, no doubt cause monetary hardship to Arkay. However both the adjustment as well as the imposition of the condition is, prima facie, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and assuming that Arkay succeeds in Arbitration it can well recover the amount from Gail. On the other hand, no materials have been produced before me to establish the financial health of Arkay. However, I had specifically sought a clarification from Mr.George as to whether Arkay would be in a position to secure the interests of GAIL by alternate means or assets. He confirms that no alternate security can be furnished. This query was put to counsel since I believe that commercial considerations cannot and should not be completely lost sight of even in a matter of this nature involving State interests that are, no doubt, paramount. After all, while the use and distribution of energy reserves deserves, as the Supreme Court has held in RNRL vs RIL ((2010) 7 SCC 1) special protection, the other stakeholders in the industry have to be protected as well if possible, ensuring that there is no compromise to the interests of the State. The balance of convenience has to be maintained. However, in the absence of any offer of alternate security by Arkay, I have no choice but to reject the prayer for injunction as regards the enforcement of the debit notes. However, Mr.Giridhar confirms that GAIL undertakes to continue the supply of gas to Arkay during pendency of arbitration. The undertaking is recorded. The supply will continue in accordance with the terms of the prevailing agreements. 17. To me what finally tips the balance in favour of GAIL is the fact that the commodity dealt with is natural gas that vests in the Government and consequently in the people of the Country in terms of Article 297 of the Constitution of India. The question is thus decided keeping in mind that even the sovereign rights of States over environmental resources is not proprietory but fiduciary. O.A.Nos.617 and 618 of 2017 are dismissed. The observations made herein are solely to decide the present applications and will not stand in the way of the parties in the proceedings for arbitration. 18. Applications Nos.5636 and 5637 of 2017 seek the impleadment of ONGC to the present proceedings as necessary parties. The Supreme Court, in the case of Chloro Controls(I) Ltd vs Savern Trent Water Purification Services ((2013) 1 SCC 641) considered the joinder of parties to proceedings for arbitration that are not parties to the arbitration agreement. In this context, the Bench holds thus: 19.A.Nos.6305 and 6306 of 2017 pray for the refund of court fee remitted in O.A. Nos. 617 and 618 of 2017. Reliance is placed on an order of this Court dated 06.07.17 passed in A. Diary No.11506/2017. Since the present O.As have been filed prior to the order dated 06.07.2017, the said order will have no application in the present case. As such no case is made out for the refund sought and the applications are dismissed. 20.This order is suspended till 26.12.2017. 18.12.2017
Note: Issue order copy on 26.12.2017
Index:Yes/No
Speaking Order/Non-speaking order
rkp/sl/vga
 
DR.ANITASUMANTH, J.,
rkp/sl/vga
 
 
 
 
 
O.P. Nos.816 to 818 of 2017 and O.P. No.820 of 2017 O.A. Nos.617 & 618 of 2017 
and A.Nos.6305 and 6306 of 2017
and A.Nos.5657 and 5658 of 2017
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.12.2017