% 02.02.2024 1. This application has been preferred on behalf of the Applicant under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking grant of anticipatory bail in case FIR
 No.14/2023 dated 07.03.2023 registered under Sections 420 / 120B IPC at
 Cyber Police Station, Central District, Delhi. 2. The case of the prosecution is that on 02.03.2023, Complainant
 Shweta Gambhir filed an online complaint on National Cyber Crime
 Reporting Portal alleging that she was searching for online job and on
 28.02.2023, she received a WhatsApp message from an unknown number.
 The message was an offer to pay Rs. 50/- per like for liking the link sent to
 her through WhatsApp. She opened the various links sent and liked them.
 Screenshot was sent to the sender named Xarina. Xarina then asked her to
 open a telegram link to receive the credited amount. Complainant joined the
 Telegram Channel Mohini8 and received Rs. 150/- in her bank account for
 liking 03 videos. Xarina also instructed her to join another Telegram BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 1 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:11
 Channel to like the 04 YouTube videos. Complainant followed the
 instructions and received Rs. 200/-. Third time, Xarina tasked her to invest
 in Crypto Currency with allurement of huge profits and later on introduced
 the Complainant to one Divya Telegram Channel and created a digital
 wallet. She was asked to deposit money starting from Rs 1,000/-,
 Rs. 5,000/-, Rs. 7,000/- and so on. The money was shown in digital wallet
 with huge profit, however, when she tried to withdraw the money, she was
 instructed to fulfil the next task and this time trapped, Applicant deposited
 Rs. 21.57 lacs in various bank accounts provided by the alleged persons.
 There was however no return of money and complainant realised that she
 was cheated and filed a complaint. 3. It is stated in the status report that on receipt of complaint, an enquiry
 was conducted and bank accounts details, used by the accused to transfer the
 cheated money were obtained, which confirmed the Complainant's version.
 Thereupon, the present FIR was registered. During investigation, it was
 revealed that accused persons had used 5 banks accounts opened in different
 names in different banks at different cities. The details of the money
 transferred by the Complainant in bank accounts of accused persons are as
 follows:- Account holder is DR Enterprises, Dev Sarkil Road, Govt.
 Dispensary, Kota, Rajasthan and the Proprietor of the Firm is Hansraj
 Meena S/o Jamna Lal Meena R/o Rava Chipboard Baran, Rajasthan.
 Amount transferred by the Complainant was Rs.11,08,000/-. Total
 credited amount was Rs.1,88,58,327/- with hold amount
 Rs. 5,21,773/-; This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:11 (b) A/C No. 50101198663, IFSC-IDFB0040158, IDFC Bank was
 opened in the name of Kismat Trading, Shop No. S 154, Plot No. 47,
 Fantasia Business Park, Sector 30A, Vashi, Thane, Maharashtra,
 India. Proprietor is Mahajan Parasnath Prajapti R/o Shop No 09,
 Mahalaxmi Heights, Virar Road, Nalasopara, Maharashtra. Amount
 transferred by the Complainant was Rs.10,00,000/-. Total Credit was
 Rs. 1,32,29,053/- with hold amount Rs. 2,00,442/-; (c) A/C No. 923010006551976, IFSC- UTIB0000674, Axis Bank,
 was opened in the name of Nikita Kumari D/o Nawal Kishor Prasad
 Sah R/o Mandal Tola Kasba, Ward No.8, Purnia, Bihar. Amount
 transferred by Complainant was Rs.35,000/-. Total credit was
 Rs.16,19,627/- with hold amount Rs. 2,53,847/-; (d) A/C No. 922020062391761, IFSC- UTIB0003674, Axis Bank,
 was opened in the name of Anwar R/o 1/197, Muslim 1st Street,
 Puliyankulam, Madurai, Tamil Nadu. Amount transferred by
 Complainant was Rs. 5,000/-. Total credit of Rs.21,135/- with hold
 amount of Rs.1.00/-. (e). A/C No. 010663300004711 with YES bank in the name of M/s.
 Allied Professional Services with Office Address: 604, PP Trade
 Center, Netaji Subhash Place, Pitampura, Delhi. Proprietor is Monu
 S/o Ramesh Chand R/o D-72, 1-B, G/F, Kh. No. 308, Harijan Basti,
 Masoodpur, South West, Delhi. Total amount credited in the bank
 account was Rs. 32,45,051/- and Rs.1,03,804/- was put on hold. 4. Investigation further revealed that another Complainant Ms. Anita
 Sethi had also filed a similar compliant on NCR Portal. She had transferred
 Rs.60,000/- in YES bank account of Monu opened in the name of M/s. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:11
 Allied Professional Services and suffered a loss of Rs.95,000/-. CDR details
 were obtained and analyzed. Ms. Renu Ghagakhar W/o Raj Ghagakhar, the
 property owner of the place where accused Monu had opened the bank
 accounts was examined which led to the search of Sanjay Dabas R/o
 Sultanpur Dabas, who was apprehended on 16.04.2023 from his village.
 During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and was arrested. He
 disclosed that he was a driver by profession and was driving the car of
 Shakil. In May, 2021, he came in contact with Farhan who told him that he
 knew people who were involved in online cheating. Sanjay Dabas fell in the
 trap and took an office on rent in a fake name and also arranged the meeting
 with Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny. Initially, he opened current bank accounts
 in the name of S.K. Services with Sunil Kumar as a Proprietor. Bank
 account details were furnished to Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny and Bhupesh
 Arora and 0.50% was fixed as their commission on total transactions which
 according to him were over Rs.12 crores and thus, they had received Rs. 6
 lacs as commission. Various other bank accounts were opened from social
 media platform Telegram and the transactions continued with Pankaj
 Wadhwa @ Sunny who would send Bhawani, present Applicant, driver of
 Bhupesh Arora to collect the kit from metro station. 5. It is further stated that at the instance of Sanjay Dabas, accused
 Farhan Ansari was apprehended on 16.04.2023 and he corroborated the
 version of Sanjay Dabas. Various details of current bank accounts were
 found in the mobile phone chat of accused Farhan Ansari. One of the
 accused visited Dubai thrice in the last six months and the IP logs of
 Telegram IDs used in commission of crime were found operational abroad.
 Accused Farhan and Sanjay Dabas disclosed that they used to handover BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 4 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:11
 details of current bank accounts to Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny and Bhupesh
 Arora. On 20.04.2023, Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny was arrested at their
 instance and one laptop and 07 mobile phones were recovered from his
 possession along with Rs.5.50 lacs of the cheated amount. Pankaj Wadhwa
 @ Sunny, on interrogation, disclosed the modus operandi of the crime along
 with Farhan Ansari and Sanjay Dabas and also disclosed that he would send
 the Applicant to collect the kit of the bank accounts from Farhan Ansari and
 Sanjay Dabas. He disclosed that his partner in crime was Bhupesh Arora.
 Investigation revealed that cheated money was being transferred to more
 than 100 other bank accounts and further investigation is in process. On
 27.04.2023, raids were conducted at the house of Bhupesh Arora but the
 property was found locked and it was later revealed that he had shifted to
 Dubai on 22.03.2022. His driver, the Applicant was also not found at his
 home and notice was given to his sister for joining investigation but none
 joined. Even his house at the native place at Alwar, Rajasthan was found
 locked and notice under Section 41A Cr.P.C. was affixed at his house.
 Applicant evaded his arrest and after his anticipatory bail application was
 dismissed by the Sessions Court on 02.06.2023, proceedings were initiated
 under Section 82 Cr.P.C. Applicant is a part of an international gang of
 cheating and Applicant is an active member and involved in the crime. 6. Learned counsel for the Applicant argues that the Applicant is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. Applicant is not
 named in the FIR and he has no connection with the alleged offences.
 Perusal of the reply filed by the Investigating Agency to the present
 application reveals that Applicant is sought to be apprehended only on the
 basis of confessional statement of one of the co-accused, Pankaj Wadhwa @ BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 5 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:11
 Sunny, which is inadmissible in evidence and merely on this basis,
 Applicant cannot be arrested as held by this Court in Md Irshad v. State
 (NCT of Delhi ), 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1317. Even assuming the
 confessional statement is taken as gospel truth, Applicant is only a driver
 who was sent by the accused Bhupesh Arora to collect the kit of bank
 accounts from Farhan Ansari and was totally ignorant of the alleged
 conspiracy between the accused persons. 7. It is further argued that there is nothing on record to suggest that the
 Applicant has cheated anyone or is a member of the syndicate. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra (2011) 1 SCC
 694, the Supreme Court while laying down the parameters for grant of
 anticipatory bail observed that great humiliation and disgrace is attached to
 arrest which leads to many serious consequences not only to the accused but
 the entire family and the Court must consider the frivolity in prosecution
 case and only when an element of genuineness is found, the accused should
 be denied bail. Arrest should be the last option to be exercised in exceptional
 cases. Learned counsel strenuously urges that the Applicant was only a
 driver and had no idea of the contents of the kits, which he was asked to
 deliver to various persons. 8. Per contra, learned APP appearing for the State contends that the
 Applicant is a part of an international syndicate and has been cheating
 hundreds of people. The cheated money has been transferred to over
 hundred bank accounts and the investigation is underway to unearth more
 details. The actions of the accused have large scale ramifications not only on
 the Complainants but the society at large. The amount credited in these
 accounts runs into crores of rupees and the Applicant is an active member of BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 6 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12
 the syndicate who helped and facilitated in the crime and was involved in
 delivery of bank accounts' kits on the instructions of and in connivance with
 Bhupesh Arora. Case property and documents related to other current bank
 accounts are yet to be recovered as the data pertaining to bank accounts is
 voluminous. 9. Learned APP also submits that this Court had granted interim
 protection to the Applicant subject to his joining and co-operating in the
 investigation. During interrogation, Applicant has disclosed that he worked
 as a driver of Bhupesh Arora who has left for Dubai with his family and is
 residing there. He denied having any knowledge of the work of Bhupesh
 Arora. While the Applicant admitted that he had been collecting and
 delivering cash money from different people on directions of Bhupesh Arora
 and using a mobile phone but refused to give the same for investigation and
 analysis, on the pretext that the same had been taken back by the mother of
 Bhupesh Arora. Applicant is not co-operating in the investigation. His
 custodial interrogation is necessary to ascertain the details of persons to
 whom he was delivering the bank accounts' kits from time to time as he is
 the one who is aware of their locations so as to unravel the larger
 conspiracy. 10. I have heard the learned counsel for the Applicant and the learned
 APP for the State. 11. In a nutshell, the allegations against the Applicant are that he was
 working as a driver of Bhupesh Arora and was actively involved in the
 alleged crime by collecting and delivering the bank accounts' kits. In fact,
 the Applicant admitted having collected cash money/documents from
 Rithala metro station albeit the stand of the Applicant was that as a driver he BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 7 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12
 was totally unaware and oblivious of the fact that the documents were bank
 accounts' kits or that any crime was being committed by his employer,
 Bhupesh Arora. Even today, the stand of the learned counsel is that, save
 and except, that the Applicant was performing his duty as a driver on the
 instructions of his employer, he has no role to play in the crime. At this
 stage, it would be relevant and useful to refer to the observations of the
 Supreme Court in Pratibha Manchanda and Another v. State of Haryana
 and Another , (2023) 8 SCC 181, in the context of anticipatory bail in cases
 involving offences under Sections 420 / 120B IPC. Relevant passages from
 the judgment are as follows:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12 (iv) The possibility of the accused's likelihood to repeat similar or
 other offences; (v) Where the accusations have been made only with the object of
 injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; (vi) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail, particularly in cases of large
 magnitude affecting a very large number of people." 20. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2018) 7 SCC 731 : (2018) 3 SCC (Cri) 331] , the
 Constitution Bench reaffirmed that when considering applications for
 anticipatory bail, courts should consider factors such as the nature and
 gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the specific
 facts of the case. 21. The relief of anticipatory bail is aimed at safeguarding individual
 rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the misuse of the power
 of arrest and protects innocent individuals from harassment, it also
 presents challenges in maintaining a delicate balance between individual
 rights and the interests of justice. The tight rope we must walk lies in
 striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights and protecting
 public interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of innocence are
 vital, the court must also consider the gravity of the offence, the impact on
 society, and the need for a fair and free investigation. The court's
 discretion in weighing these interests in the facts and circumstances of
 each individual case becomes crucial to ensure a just outcome. xxx xxx xxx 32. .... The facts of the case speak for themselves and an element of
 criminality cannot be ruled out at this stage. Whether or not the alleged
 offences were committed by Respondent 2 and his co-accused in active
 collusion with each other can be effectively determined by a free, fair,
 unhampered and dispassionate investigation. In the peculiar facts and
 circumstances of this case, custodial interrogation of not only Respondent
 2 but all other suspects is, therefore, imperative to unearth the truth.
 Joining the investigation with a protective umbrella provided by pre-arrest
 bail will render the exercise of eliciting the truth ineffective in such like
 case. ..." 12. The allegations against the Applicant are serious and he is stated to be
 a part of an international syndicate whereby innocent people are being
 cheated and the financial ramifications run into several crores. It has been
 held by this Court in Sulav Adhikari v. State of Govt of NCT Delhi and BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 9 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12
 Another, 2023 SCC OnLine Del 6040, that perpetration of scams as the
 present one impacts the society on a much broader scale as it not only
 affects the trust and confidence of individuals but also undermines the
 integrity of online payment systems and digital transactions as a whole. In
 an era where digital transactions have become fundamental component of
 our economic infrastructure, any threat to the security and trustworthiness of
 online financial interactions poses a direct challenge to the economic
 stability and progress of the society and therefore, it is imperative that such
 offences are viewed with a seriousness. The investigation in the present case
 is at a very nascent stage and learned APP, on instructions, has strenuously
 urged that custodial interrogation of the Applicant is required to unearth and
 unravel the larger conspiracy. Applicant needs to be confronted with various
 documents etc. and his role as a driver to Bhupesh Arora, who has since fled
 away to Dubai, is crucial. 13. The allegations against the Applicant are serious as he is stated to be a
 part of an international syndicate involved in cases of cheating with financial
 ramifications on several individual complainants as well as society at large.
 It is stated in the status report that despite interim protection granted to the
 Applicant by this Court, subject to his joining and co-operating in
 investigation, he is not co-operating in the investigation and is resisting in
 handing over the mobile phone, which he was using at the time of
 commission of the alleged offence. Custodial interrogation of the Applicant
 is sought to unearth the complete scam as also for the reason that the
 Applicant is an important link to the main accused Bhupesh Arora, being his
 driver and the person, who was delivering the Bank accounts' kits to various
 people. In State Rep. By The C.B.I. v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, the BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 10 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12
 Supreme Court has observed that custodial interrogation is qualitatively
 more elicitation-oriented than questioning a suspect who is well ensconced
 with a favourable order under Section 438 Cr.P.C. Further, it is also the
 stand of the State that the Applicant is a flight risk and there are chances that
 he would abscond to Dubai since other members of the syndicate including
 Bhupesh Arora, who is the kingpin and mastermind of the transactions is
 residing there. Possibility of tampering with evidence is also asserted. In Haresh Kumar Choudhary v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2023 SCC OnLine Del
 1877, this Court held that while considering the prayer for grant of
 anticipatory bail, the Court has to ensure that investigation in the subject FIR
 is not prejudiced, if such relief is granted. In these facts, this Court is not
 inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the Applicant and the application is
 dismissed. 14. Application stands disposed of making it clear that nothing expressed
 herein shall tantamount to an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. JYOTI SINGH, J
 FEBRUARY 02, 2024/shivam BAIL APPLN. 49/2024 Page 11 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:26:12