IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 CWP No. 2056 of 2014

 . Judgment reserved on: 12.08.2016

 Date of decision: August 17, 2016. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge. Whether approved for reporting? Yes 1

 For the petitioner : Mr. Yudhvir Singh Thakur, Advocate. For the respondents : Mr. Ashok Kumar Sood with Mr. Dhiraj
 Thakur, Advocates. Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge

 The minimal facts as necessary for the adjudication of

 this petition are that the husband of the petitioner while working with

 the respondents-Bank unfortunately died on 01.10.2007. The

 petitioner initially submitted her case for compassionate appointment,

 however, the same was rejected on the ground that the respondent- Bank had stopped giving appointment on compassionate ground and

 a new scheme granting ex-gratia had been started from 14.12.2005. 2. Petitioner thereafter filed application for the payment of

 ex-gratia, however, the same was rejected vide order dated

 27.01.2009, but such rejection was not conveyed to the petitioner. Despite prolonged correspondence and despite directions passed by

 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the Judgment? Yes ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...2... this Court on 25.11.2013 in CWP No. 7833 of 2013 whereby the

 respondents had been directed to consider the case of the petitioner

 . for grant of compassionate appointment, the petitioner is still in the

 dark regarding the fate of her case and has, therefore, filed the

 instant writ petition with the following substantive prayers: (i-a)
 rt That the impugned order dated 27.1.2009 (Annexure
 P-3/A) may be quashed and set-aside in the interest of
 justice and fair play. (ii) Alternatively, the respondents may be directed to make
 payment of Ex-gratia in lieu of compassionate
 appointment to the petitioner. (iii) That the respondents may be directed to release other
 benefits i.e. gratuity, leave encashment and
 reimbursement of medical bills and other expenses

 incurred by the family on treatment of late Shri Gurdev

 Singh." 3. The respondents have filed their reply wherein it has

 been averred that the case of the petitioner has in fact been rejected

 on the ground that the financial condition of the petitioner at the time

 of death of her husband was not found to be indigent by the bank

 while deciding the claim for ex-gratia amount. The family was having

 a house to live in as the deceased employee had raised loan from the

 bank for construction of such house. The petitioner was also getting

 regular family pension and was not brought on road with the death of

 her husband. 4, In light of the pleadings of the parties, the only question

 which requires to be determined by this Court is whether the ex-gratia ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...3... payment could have denied only because the dependent of the

 deceased had been receiving some amount by way of family pension. . I have heard learned counsel for the parties and also

 gone through the records of the case carefully and meticulously. 5. At the outset, it may be observed that the arguments had

 initially been heard on 3.8.2016, however, while dictating judgment, it

 of
 was felt necessary that the policy prevailing prior to issuance of the

 scheme for payment of ex-gratia lump sum amount in lieu of
 rt
 appointment on compassionate grounds (Annexure R-1) was

 necessary for the just and proper adjudication of the case and

 accordingly the case was ordered to be listed on 4.8.2016, and the

 respondents were directed to place the said policy on record. 6. In compliance to the directions passed by this Court, the

 respondents have placed copy of the policy and the same was taken

 on record. 7. It is evident from the records that Scheme for

 appointment of dependents of deceased employee and dependents

 of employees retired on medical grounds was issued by the Indian

 Banks Association on 23.8.1996, which was based on the

 observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Umesh Kumar Nagpal

 vs. State of Haryana (1994) 4 SCC 138 whereby the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court emphasized that the provisions for compassionate

 appointment have necessarily to be made by the rules or by the

 executive instructions issued by the Government or the public

 authority concerned and that the employment cannot be offered by an

 individual functionary of the Government or the public authority. ...4... 8. Clause V of the Scheme, deals with the financial

 condition of the family and reads as under: 9. Now, insofar as the current Scheme is concerned

 (Annexure R-1), the relevant clause regarding financial condition of

 the family reads thus: 10.
 rt
 It would be evident from the relevant clauses of the

 earlier policy and the ex-gratia scheme dated 16.6.2006 (Annexure

 R-1) that computation of family pension has been excluded while

 computing the monthly income of the family. The Scheme only refers

 to terminal benefits of provident fund, gratuity, leave encashment and

 any other amounts paid under the bank's scheme and, therefore, the

 family pension cannot be included while computing the monthly

 income of the petitioner. 11. Though, the learned counsel for the respondents would

 vehemently argue that the family pension has to be included under

 the head 'any other amount under bank's Scheme'. However, such

 contention cannot be accepted in the absence of 'family pension'

 being specifically mentioned in the later scheme. This is in the

 background of the original policy wherein the family pension was

 included, whereas the modified scheme dated 16.6.2006 (Annexure

 R-1) has consciously excluded family pension component for the

 purpose of computing the monthly income of the family. The intent of

 the formulator of the scheme is quite clear that family pension was not

 something to be added to the income for determining whether ex- ...7... gratia payment is to be made or not or else there is no reason to have

 excluded family pension as a component in the modified scheme. . 12. An identical question came up for consideration before a

 learned Single Judge of the Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court

 in Santosh Devi vs. Oriental Bank of Commerce , decided on 4th

 May, 2009 and it was held : This recommendation of the Indian Banks' Association was
 accepted in the scheme, which was finally formulated by the

 respondent bank on 1.1.1998, where the same criteria for
 determining the financial condition of the family of the

 of
 deceased employee was laid down. The said policy was
 amended by the respondent bank on the guidelines issued by
 the Government and the Indian Banks' Association from time
 to time. The present scheme was adopted by the Board of
 rt
 Directors in pursuant to the fresh Government/Indian Banks'

 Association guidelines, approved in its meeting held on
 17.8.2007. The Revised Model Scheme for payment of Ex-
 gratia amount in lieu of appointment on compassionate
 grounds & appointment of dependents of deceased

 employees on compassionate grounds was circulated to all
 Branches/Offices in India vide circular dated 26.9.2007. Paras 1, 2 and 3 of the Revised Model Scheme read as
 under : (B) The Scheme for Compassionate Appointment will
 be applicable in the following cases : dacoity; (b) Employee dying within five years of his first
 appointment or before reaching the age of 30
 years, whichever is later,leaving a dependent

 spouse and/or minor children. 2. Ex-gratia Payment

 of (a) In cases as in para 1 (A), Ex-gratia amount
 will be paid to the family of the employees if
 eligible and if requested for within six months
 rt from the date of the death of the employee. The
 family shall be in indigent or penurious

 circumstances. "Family" for this purpose would
 mean and include spouse, wholly dependent
 children (son, including legally adopted

 son/unmarried daughter including legally
 adopted unmarried daughter). In case of
 unmarried employee, parent who are wholly

 dependent on the employee will constitute

 "family". (b) Ex-Gratia may be granted to the family of the
 employee in the manner and subject to the

 ceilings specified below, if the monthly income
 of the family from all sources is less than 60% of
 the last drawn salary (net of taxes) of the
 employee. Calculation of monthly income
 (1) Terminal Benefits (i) Provident Fund (ii) Gratuity (iii) Leave Encashment (iv) Any other amount paid under Bank's Scheme (s)
 Sub-total (A) _________
 (2) Liabilities
 Loans taken from bank and/or other Financial Institutions with
 the prior approval of the Bank Sub-total (B) __________ Net corpus of
 terminal benefits (C=A-B) __________ (3) Investments Deposits NSCs
 PPF LIC policies Others Sub-total (D) _________ (4) Details of movable
 property, if any, held and monthly income derived therefrom (5) Details of
 immovable property, if any, held and monthly income therefrom (6)
 Monthly income of the family from all sources ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...10... (i) Monthly interest at the Bank's maximum term deposit rate
 on the net corpus of terminal benefits (C)

 . (ii) Monthly income from investments (iii) Monthly income from movable and Immovable Property (iv) Monthly income of dependent family members (v) Any other monthly income Total monthly income of the

 family ___________ (c) If the total monthly income of the family arrived at as

 of
 above is less than 60% of the last drawn gross salary (net of
 taxes) of the employee, ex-gratia amount as under will be
 payable
 rt (i) The cadre-wise ceiling on ex-gratia amount payable
 will be as follows : taxes) of the employee, an ex- gratia amount calculated @ 60% of

 the last drawn gross salary (net of taxes) for each month of

 remaining service of the employee (i.e. up to the age of
 superannuation in terms of extent service rules/conditions) at the
 time of his death/ incapacitation subject to the cadre-wise ceiling of

 "Maximum Amount" mentioned under (i) above, will be payable. (d) In case of an employee seeking premature retirement due
 to total incapacitation for work, the ex-gratia is payable only if
 all the extant provisions for such retirement are fully satisfied
 and the retirement has been approved by the competent
 authority specified therefore. (e) While dealing with proposals for grant of ex-gratia as
 above in cases where disciplinary action had been taken/
 was pending against the employee dying in harness or the
 deceased employee was involved in financial irregularities,
 embezzlement of funds, committing frauds etc. bank will
 continue to abide by the guidelines issued by the
 Government of India requiring consideration and decision in
 each case by the Board of the Bank. ...11... (f) The ex-gratia amount in eligible cases will be paid within 3
 months of receipt of application, complete in all respects. . (g) The ex-gratia relief under the above Scheme is not an

 entitlement but may be granted at the sole discretion of the
 Bank looking into the financial conditions of the family and in
 deserving and eligible cases only. (h) The Scheme will come into force with retrospective effect
 from 31.07.2004 and all applications pending as on

 of
 31.07.2004 shall be considered in accordance with the
 revised scheme. Any application disposed of prior to
 31.07.2004 and any order passed thereon shall not be
 rt
 reopened. 3. Appointment on compassionate grounds : 31.07.2004 in the circumstances as in Para 1 (B) will be dealt
 with according to this Scheme. . (g) Appointment under the Scheme is not an entitlement but

 may be granted at the sole discretion of the bank looking into
 the financial conditions of the family and in deserving and
 eligible cases only. (h) The Board of the Bank reserves its right to substitute,
 amend or vary from time-to-time any provisions of the

 of
 Scheme mentioned above. Application for Payment of ex-gratia amount in lieu of
 appointment on compassionate grounds or appointment on
 rt
 compassionate grounds from the family/dependents of the
 deceased employee, as the case may be and proposal for

 payment of the same by the concerned branch incumbent
 alongwith concerned Regional Head's recommendations are
 to be sent in the proforma enclosed herewith." Para 1 (B) of the scheme provides that the compassionate
 appointment can be given to the dependent of the deceased

 in case (a) Employee dying while performing his official duty,
 as result of violence, terrorism, robbery or dacoity; or (b)

 Employee dying within five years of his first appointment or
 before reaching the age of 30 years, whichever is later,

 leaving a dependent spouse and/or minor children. The case
 of the petitioner does not fall in either of these two clauses.
 Therefore, her claim for compassionate appointment has
 been rightly rejected by the respondent bank. However, in
 view of Para 1 (A), the petitioner is eligible for the grant of Ex-
 gratia financial assistance. Sub-para (a) of Para 2 provides
 that Ex-gratia amount will be paid to the family of the
 employees, if eligible as per Para 1 (A). According to this
 sub-para, the family shall be in indigent or penurious
 circumstances. Sub-para (b) of Para 2 further provides that
 Ex-gratia may be granted to the family of the employee, if the
 monthly income of the family from all sources is less than
 60% of the last drawn salary (net of taxes) of the employee.
 This sub-para further provides the method of calculation of
 monthly income of the family. To calculate the monthly ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...13... income, the terminal benefits i.e. (i) Provident Fund (ii)
 Gratuity (iii) Leave Encashment and (iv) any other amount

 . paid under Bank's Scheme, have to be taken into

 consideration. The liabilities in the shape of loans taken by
 the family from the bank or other financial institutions have to
 be deducted and thereafter, the net corpus of terminal

 benefits has to be arrived at. Further, the investments in
 shape of deposits, NSCs, LIC policies are to be taken into

 of
 consideration. It is further provided that the monthly interest
 at the bank's maximum term deposit rate on the net corpus of
 terminal benefits has also to be taken into consideration while
 rt
 calculating the monthly income of the family. Thus, a careful
 reading of the aforesaid Paras of the revised Ex- gratia

 scheme dated 26.9.2007, clearly indicates that the `Family
 Pension' received by the dependents of the deceased
 employee is not to be taken into consideration as terminal

 benefits, for the purpose of calculating the monthly income of
 the family. The revised scheme clearly provides that to
 calculate the monthly income, only terminal benefits, such as (i) Provident Fund (ii) Gratuity (iii) Leave Encashment and (iv)

 any other amount paid under Bank's Scheme, are to be
 counted. As per this scheme, the terminal benefits do not
 including the `Family Pension', which was included in the

 original scheme, approved by the Indian Banks' Association.
 This clearly indicates that while framing the revised scheme,
 the respondent bank has consciously not including the
 `Family Pension' as one of the components of terminal
 benefits, which is to be taken into account for calculating the
 monthly income of the family of the deceased employee.
 Inclusion of `Family Pension' as one of the components of the
 terminal benefits has to be expressly provided in the scheme,
 as was provided in the original scheme framed in the year
 1998. The said exclusion clearly shows the intention of the
 policy maker that the `Family Pension' received by the family
 of the deceased employee should not be taken into account
 while calculating the monthly income of the family of the
 deceased employee. Therefore, in the instant case, the
 respondent bank has acted illegally, arbitrarily and contrary to ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...14... the provisions of the revised scheme, while adding the
 monthly `Family Pension' received by the family of the

 . deceased employee, for calculating the monthly income of

 the family. If the `Family Pension' received by the dependent
 of the deceased employee and a notional interest at the rate
 of 6% to 11% on the terminal benefits are clubbed to arrive at

 60% of the gross salary drawn by the deceased employee,
 then there would hardly be any family who could be entitled

 of
 to Ex-gratia payment under the policy. Such interpretation
 would defeat the very purpose of the new revised scheme of
 the Ex-gratia payment. Therefore, the respondent bank, in
 rt
 pursuance to the Government/Indian Banks' Association
 instructions, consciously does not include the `Family

 Pension' in the terminal benefits for the purpose of calculating
 the monthly income of the family of the deceased employee.
 The Ex-gratia payment is a socio economic measure and it

 should be aimed that family of the deceased employee is
 being benefitted in most of the cases. If the component of
 `Family Pension' is excluded from the monthly income of the

 family of the deceased employee, then the monthly income

 comes to less than 60% of the last drawn gross salary of the
 deceased employee. The argument of the petitioner that none of the terminal
 benefits as mentioned in the revised scheme should be
 included in the calculation of monthly income, as the same is
 illegal and unconstitutional, cannot be sustained. The
 Supreme Court in the case of General Manager (D&PB) and
 others v. Kunti Tiwary and Another, (2004) 7 SCC 271
 observed that scheme formulated by the bank is valid and
 after considering the terminal benefits, immovable and
 movable property possessed, it cannot be said that the
 condition of the deceased family was penurious. This case
 has been followed in the case of Punjab National Bank and
 others v. Ashwini Kumar Taneja , (2004) 7 SCC 265 : AIR
 2004 SC 4155, wherein it was held by the Apex Court that
 the High Court's view that the retiral benefits are not to be
 taken into consideration while dealing with the request for ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...15... compassionate appointment is contrary to the decision in
 Kunti Tiwary's case. The Supreme Court also relied on Kunti

 . Tiwary's case in the case of SBI v. Jaspal Kaur, (2007) 9

 SCC 571 and observed that the High Court while determining
 the financial condition of the family shall taken into account
 the scheme formulated regarding the same. But, as has been discussed above, the `Family Pension'

 of
 received by the dependents of the deceased employee is not
 to be counted, while calculating the monthly income of the
 family of the deceased employee. In Kunti Tiwary's case
 (supra), the Supreme Court has upheld the inclusion of
 rt
 `Family Pension' in the terminal benefits for the purpose of

 calculating the monthly income of the family of the deceased
 employee, keeping in view the scheme of the Punjab National
 Bank, namely "Scheme for Employment of the Dependents of
 the Employees Who Die While in the Service of the Bank - Service on Compassionate Grounds", which provides for
 inclusion of `Family Pension' in the calculation of monthly

 income of the family, but in the instant case, the revised
 scheme has purposely and consciously not included the

 `Family Pension' component in terminal benefits, which are to
 be taken into account for calculating the monthly income of

 the family. Further, the respondent bank has included an amount of
 Rs.1434/-, as deemed interest on terminal benefits, in view of
 sub-para (6) (i) of Para 2 of the revised scheme, which provides
 inclusion of monthly interest at the Bank's maximum
 term deposit rate on the net corpus of terminal benefits.
 In my opinion, the inclusion of such notional interest
 deemed to have been accrued on the terminal benefits
 is arbitrary and unreasonable. The monthly income on
 account of interest can be added in the monthly income
 of the family, if the said interest has actually accrued to
 the family. There may be a situation where the family of
 the deceased employee might have spent that amount ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...16... on the purchase of house or on the marriage of the
 children of the deceased employee or for clearing the

 . liabilities of the deceased employee. The interest

 income of the family can be taken into account, if
 actually there is an income from the deposit of the
 terminal benefits. On notion, no deemed income could

 be taken into consideration. Concededly, it has not
 been stated by the respondent bank that the petitioner

 of
 family is actually receiving an amount of interest from
 the deposit of terminal benefits. Therefore, sub-para (6) (i) of Para 2 of the revised scheme dated 26.9.2007,
 rt which provides for taking into account the deemed
 interest on the terminal benefits, without there being

 any actual accrual, is illegal, arbitrary and
 unreasonable. Thus, the respondent bank has acted
 illegally and arbitrarily by including the `Family Pension'

 and the notional interest on the terminal benefits, while
 calculating the monthly income of the family of the
 deceased employee. In view of these facts, in my

 opinion, the respondent bank has illegally rejected the

 claim of the petitioner for Ex-gratia financial assistance
 under the revised scheme dated 26.9.2007." 13. Notably, the aforesaid decision was assailed by the Bank

 by filing LPA No. 585 of 2009, but the same was also dismissed by a

 learned Division Bench of the Court by according the following

 reasons: satisfied in the present case as the learned single Judge has
 wrongfully excluded the family pension and notional interest on
 terminal benefits from calculation of such monthly income. . The aforesaid is, thus, the only controversy which is being
 called upon to be adjudicated in the present appeal, as prayed for

 by learned counsel for the appellants. Learned counsel for the appellants contends that both the

 of
 aforesaid elements were required to be included in the
 computation of monthly income. In this behalf, learned counsel has
 relied on judgments of the Supreme Court in General Manager
 (D&PB) and others vs. Kunti Tiwary and another, (2004) 7
 rt
 Supreme Court Cases 271, Punjab National Bank and others vs.
 Ashwini Kumar Taneja , (2004) 7 Supreme Court Cases 265 and

 State Bank of India and others vs. Jaspal Kaur , (2007) 9 Supreme
 Court Cases 571. It was held in the first judgment that the High
 Court could not have diluted the criterion of penury to one of "not

 very well-to-do" in directing compassionate appointment. In the
 second judgment, it was clarified that the appointment on
 compassionate ground is not a source of recruitment, but merely

 an exception to recruitment with the intent that on the death of an
 employee the concerned family is not deprived of means of

 livelihood. The view of the High Court that retiral benefits were not
 to be taken into consideration while dealing with request for

 compassionate appointment was negated. In the last of the three
 judgments referred to, it was observed that family pension as a
 component has to be included in the computation of income. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent
 points out that out of the two components in question even if family
 pension is excluded, there is no dispute that the respondent would
 qualify (an aspect not disputed by learned counsel for the
 appellants). He submits that family pension was included as a
 component of income in State Bank of India and others vs. Jaspal
 Kaur case (supra) only because it was so specifically enumerated
 and provided for as per the Scheme. This is reflected in para-24 of
 that judgment where family pension was mentioned in the first
 clause for such computation. He further submits that the first two
 judgments referred to aforesaid have in fact been examined by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in a subsequent judgment in Mumtaz
 Yunus Mulani vs. State of Maharashtra & Ors. , 2008(11) SCC 384 ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...18... where it has been held that compassionate appointment could not
 be denied because the dependent of the deceased had been
 receiving some amount by way of family pension. It is, thus,

 . submitted that this issue is no more res integra and same is the
 view expressed in Govind Prakash Verma vs. Life Insurance
 Corporation of India & others, 2005(10) SCC 289. We are not getting into an elaborate discussion on the
 matter in issue because of the limited controversy. The important

 of
 aspect is that if family pension is excluded from computation of
 monthly income, there is no dispute of the entitlement of the
 respondent towards ex-gratia payment. It is also not in dispute that
 as per the Scheme applicable, family pension is not mentioned as
 rt
 one of the components to be included. This revised Ex-gratia
 Scheme dated 26.9.2007 applicable refers to terminal benefits of

 provident fund, gratuity, leave encashment and any other amounts
 paid under bank's scheme. It is in the last item that the appellants
 seek to bring their case in. In our view, the aforesaid plea cannot be accepted in the
 absence of 'family pension' being specifically mentioned. This is in

 the background of the original Scheme dated 31.7.2004. This
 Scheme included family pension as a component to be specifically

 included. The modified Scheme consciously excluded family
 pension component and this is what has weighed with the learned

 single Judge in concluding that the intent of the formulator of the
 Scheme was quite clear that family pension was not something to
 be added to the income for determining whether ex-gratia payment
 is to be made or not. In our view, there can be little doubt about
 this proposition as it makes no sense otherwise to have excluded
 family pension as a component in the modified Scheme. The
 learned single Judge has examined all the judgments exhaustively
 in this behalf. Even as per the legal principles, there is little doubt in view
 of the discussion in Mumtaz Yunus Mulani vs. State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. case (supra) cited by learned counsel for the
 respondent. It is a subsequent judgment and has taken into
 consideration the earlier judgments by specifically referring to the
 aspect of computation of income and holding that family pension is
 not to be included for the said purpose." ...19... 14. Importantly, it was the same policy framed by the Indian

 Banks Association which formed the subject matter of lis in Santosh

 . Devi 's case (supra) and this decision would therefore be squarely

 applicable to the facts of the instant case. Even otherwise, the

 learned counsel for the respondents has not been in a position to

 point out any infirmity in the said decision . of 15. That apart, I may now refer to a judgment rendered by

 the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in Surinder Kumar vs. State rt
 of H.P. and others 2016 (1) Latest HLJ (HP), 113 wherein one of

 the question posed before the Bench was as to whether the amount

 of family pension and other retiral benefits received by the family of

 the deceased employee could be included in the family income for

 denying the compassionate appointment. Answering the question, the

 Hon'ble Division Bench held as under:- employee, can be included in the family income for
 denying the compassionate appointment? (ii) Which date would be relevant viz. a viz. applicability of
 the Policy - whether the date of death of the employee
 or the date when the application was presented, for the
 first time, for seeking employment on compassionate
 ground or the date on which the application came up for
 consideration before the Authorities, and whether a
 claim for compassionate appointment can be decided
 on the basis of subsequent amendment, when the
 application was presented prior to such amendment? ...20... (iii) If an applicant was in lis and his case was directed to
 be reconsidered, whether the claim of such applicant is

 . to be determined as per the policy which was existing at

 the time of passing the order or as per the policy which
 was in place at the time of staking claim for the first time
 or as per the policy existing at the time of consideration? (iv) Whether the applicant can claim appointment on
 compassionate ground against a higher cadre, once he

 of
 had been appointed in the lower cadre? (v) In case a person is appointed on contract basis,
 whether he is within his rights to seek appointment on
 rt regular basis? (vi) In a given set of cases, in one case the appointment on

 compassionate ground has been offered against a
 Class-III post and in other case, the appointment has
 been offered to a Class-IV post, whether it amounts to

 discrimination? (vii) Whether a person can claim compassionate
 appointment after a considerable delay? (viii) Whether requisite qualification or age can be relaxed? (ix) In case one or more dependants of a deceased- employee is/are in service, though living separately,
 whether that can be made a ground to deny

 compassionate appointment to the other dependant of
 the deceased-employee? 45. After going through the Policy, dated 18th January,
 1990, as amended from time to time, and the facts, as are
 emerging, our point-wise findings, on the above points, are as
 under. Point No. (i) :Whether the amount of family pension
 and other retiral benefits, received by the family of the
 deceased-employee, can be included in the family
 income for denying the compassionate appointment? 46. Clause 10(c) of the Policy mandates that while making
 appointment on compassionate ground, the competent
 Authority has to keep in mind the benefits received by the
 family on account of ad hoc ex-gratia grant, improved family
 pension and death gratuity. Therefore, we may place on
 record at the outset that no maximum income ceiling has
 been prescribed in the Policy. Only what has been prescribed ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...21... is that the competent Authority has to keep in mind the
 benefits received by the family after the death of the
 employee, as detailed above. . 47. The aim and object of granting compassionate

 appointment is to enable the family of the deceased
 employee to tide over the sudden financial crisis which the
 family has met on the death of its breadwinner. Though,

 appointment on compassionate ground is inimical to the right
 of equality guaranteed under the Constitution, however, at
 the same time, we cannot be oblivious to the fact that the
 concept of granting appointment on compassionate ground is

 of
 an exception to the general rule, which concept has been
 evolved in the interest of justice, by way of Policy framed in
 this regard by the employer. The object sought to be
 achieved by making such an exception is to provide
 immediate assistance to the destitute family, which comes to
 rt
 the level of zero after the death of its bread-earner. Thus, we
 are of the considered view that the amount of family pension

 and other retiral benefits cannot be equated with the
 employment assistance on compassionate ground. 48. While reaching at this conclusion, we are supported by
 the decision of the Apex Court in Govind Prakash Verma vs.

 Life Insurance Corporation of India and others , (2005) 10
 Supreme Court Cases 289, wherein it was held that scheme
 for providing employment assistance on compassionate
 ground was over and above the service benefits received by

 the family of an employee after his death. It is apt to
 reproduce the relevant portion of paragraph 6 of the said

 decision hereunder: 49. The Apex Court in A.P.S.R.T.C., Musheerabad & Ors.
 vs. Sarvarunnisa Begum , 2008 AIR SCW 1946, while
 discussing the aim and object of granting compassionate
 appointment, has held that the widow, who was paid
 additional monetary benefits for not claiming appointment,
 was not entitled to compassionate appointment. It is apt to
 reproduce paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said decision hereunder: 4. In the present case, the additional monetary benefit
 has been given to the widow apart from the benefits
 available to the widow after the death of her husband
 to get over the financial constraints on account of
 sudden death of her husband and, thus, as a matter of
 right, she was not entitled to claim the compassionate
 appointment and that too when it had not been brought
 to the notice of the Court that any vacancy was
 available where the respondent could have been
 accommodated by giving her a compassionate
 appointment. That apart, the Division Bench of the
 High Court has committed an error in modifying the
 direction of the Single Judge by directing the
 Corporation to appoint the respondent when no appeal
 was preferred by the respondent challenging order of
 the Single Judge." 50. Coming to the Policy in hand, there is nothing on the
 record to show that the writ respondents have ever made a
 provision for additional monetary benefit, as a substitute to
 the employment assistance on compassionate ground, ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP ...23... except the terminal benefits to which the family of the
 deceased-employee is otherwise entitled to. . 51. The Apex Court in its latest decision in Canara Bank &
 Anr. vs. M. Mahesh Kumar , 2015 AIR SCW 3212, while

 relying upon its earlier decision in Balbir Kaur and another vs.
 Steel Authority of India Ltd. and others , (supra), has restated
 the similar position, and held that grant of family pension or

 payment of terminal benefits, cannot be treated as substitute
 for providing employment assistance on compassionate
 ground. It is apt to reproduce paragraphs 15 and 16 of the
 said decision hereunder: Emphasis applied. 52. The Clauses contained in the Policy in hand are similar
 to the Scheme, which was the subject matter before the Apex
 Court in Canara Bank 's case (supra). Therefore, the mandate

 of
 of the said judgment of the Apex Court is squarely applicable
 to the cases in hand. 53. From the facts of the cases in hand, another moot
 question, which arises for consideration, is - Whether
 rt
 instructions contained in letters/communications, made by
 one Department of the Government to another, can be said to

 be amendment in the Policy? The answer is in the negative
 for the following reasons. 54. In order to show that the maximum income ceiling was
 prescribed by the competent Authority, the respondents have

 relied upon the letter, dated 1st November, 2008, written by
 the Secretary (PW) to the Government of H.P., to the
 Engineer-in-Chief, HPPWD , referred to above , wherein it was
 mentioned that the income ceiling fixed by the Finance

 Department, for a family of four members, was Rs.1.00 lac. A
 perusal of this letter shows that it has been mentioned therein

 that "the Income Criteria fixed by the Finance Department
 takes into consideration maximum family income ceiling fixed
 by the finance Deptt. for a family of 4 members as Rs.1.00
 lac." It is nowhere mentioned in the said letter that the income
 ceiling was fixed by the competent Authority by making
 amendment in the Policy. Moreover, the said amendment, if
 any, has not be en placed on record and has not seen the
 light of the day. Therefore, the letters/communications issued
 by a Department to another Department cannot be said to be
 amendment in the Policy unless the said amendment has got
 the approval of the competent Authority i.e. the Cabinet. 55. Having regard to the above discussion, we are of the
 considered view that the action of the respondents of denying
 employment assistance to the dependant of a deceased
 employee by taking into account the family pension and other
 terminal benefits is not tenable in he eyes of law. Point No.(i)
 is answered accordingly." ...25... 16, The judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Division Bench of

 this Court in the aforesaid case is binding on this Court and even

 . otherwise, I see no reason to differ with the same. 17. Notably, the Division Bench while deciding the aforesaid

 case has taken into consideration the latest judgment of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Canara Bank and another vs. M. Mahesh Kumar of
 (2015) 7 SCC 412 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

 unequivocally held that grant of family pension or payment of terminal
 rt
 benefits cannot be treated as a substitute for providing employment

 assistance. Once it is so, then the necessary corollary would be that

 the grant of family pension or payment of terminal benefits cannot be

 treated as a substitute for providing ex-gratia lump sum amount in lieu

 of appointment on compassionate grounds. 18. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I find merit in this

 petition and the same is accordingly allowed and all the orders

 rejecting the claim of the petitioner for grant of ex-gratia amount in

 lieu of appointment on compassionate ground including order dated

 27.1.2009 (Annexure P-3/A) are quashed and set-aside and

 consequently the respondents are directed to pay ex-gratia amount in

 lieu of compassionate appointment alongwith all other benefits i.e.

 gratuity, leave encashment, reimbursement of medical bills and other

 expenses incurred by the family as are due and admissible to the

 petitioner within a period of three months from today, failing which

 they shall be liable to pay the said amount alongwith 9% interest. ...26... The petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms, so also

 the pending application(s), if any, leaving the parties to bear their own

 . costs. August 17, 2016. ( Tarlok Singh Chauhan ),
 (GR) Judge

 of
 rt ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 21:02:05 :::HCHP