1. This is an action for passing of which has been instituted by the Plaintif on the

basis of its trade mark "iTerm" (Aegon Life iTerm Plus) seeking an order of

injunction against the Defendant restraining it from using the mark "i-Term" (Aviva

i-Term Smart) in respect of its insurance policies. nitin 1/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: 2. According to the Plaintif, it is engaged in the business of providing life

insurance, pension and other related insurance products and services in the Indian

market. In the year 2009, the Plaintif was desirous of launching online insurance

policies which could be purchased by customers on the Plaintiffs website or through

online aggregators, in addition to selling policies through traditional means such as via

insurance agents, brokers etc. That in order to diferentiate and distinguish its

'products oferingf from others, and after signifcant deliberations, the Plaintif coined

and adopted a new, unique, distinctive and innovative trade mark being "iTerm".

The Plaintif also conceived and adopted a stylized manner of representing the trade

mark "iTerm" by using lowercase "i" and uppercase "T". According to the Plaintif,

it was the frst entity in India to ofer and sell insurance policies online. On 17 th August

2009, the Plaintif made an application to the Insurance Regulatory and Development

Authority of India ("IRDAI") seeking its approval for introducing insurance

products under the trade mark "iTerm" and ofering them to prospective customers

via online channels, which was approved by the IRDAI on 7 th September 2009. 3. According to the Plaintif, in or about October 2009, the Plaintif launched and

started ofering for sale its online insurance products on its website

www.aegonreligare.com, under the trade mark "iTerm". According to the Plaintif,

the frst set of its insurance policies under the trademark "iTerm" were issued on 27 th

October 2009. In 2017, the Plaintif also launched two other products with variants of nitin 2/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: the trade mark "iTerm" viz. 'iTerm Plusf and 'iTerm Foreverf. The Plaintif has

also registered the domain names, www.iterm.co.in, www.iterm100.com and

www.itermplus.com. According to the Plaintif, its trade mark 'iTermf is inherently

distinctive of its products and in any event by virtue of its open, continuous and

extensive use, the said mark has acquired secondary signifcance thereby connoting

and denoting to the members of the trade and public, the insurance policies of the

Plaintif and of no one else. On 18 th May 2018, the Plaintif fled trademark

applications under Nos. 3837083, 3837084, 3837085 and 3837086 all in class 36 with

the Registrar of Trademarks for registration of the trade marks iTerm (word mark),

iTerm Plus (word mark), iTerm Forever (word mark) and iTerm Forever Plus (word

mark), respectively. On 17th November 2018, i.e. after the present suit was fled, the

Plaintiffs trade mark 'iTerm Forever Plusf bearing No.3837086 in class 36 was

registered, however, since the hearing of the present Notice of Motion on the basis of

cause of action for passing of had already commenced, the Plaintif has proceeded

with the hearing without amending and claiming the cause of action for infringement

of trade mark 'iTerm Forever Plusf bearing No.3837086 in class 36. 4. The Plaintiffs products i.e. Insurance Policies which are sold over the internet

include inter alia the following : 5. According to the Plaintif, in or around the third week of May 2018, the

Plaintif for the frst time learnt that the Defendant had launched its online policy

under the mark "Aviva i-Term Smart". The Plaintif issued a cease and desist notice

dated 22nd May 2018 to the Defendant whereby the Plaintif asserted its rights in the nitin 4/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: trade mark 'iTermf and called upon the Defendant to cease and desist from using the

mark 'iTermf. The Plaintif also initiated communication with the senior

management of the Defendant to explain the rights of the Plaintif in the trade mark

'iTermf and the seriousness of harm and damage caused to the Plaintiffs business

due to the unauthorized and illegal use of the mark 'i-Termf by the Defendant. The

Plaintif also addressed a letter to the IRDAI on 25 th May 2018 and informed the

IRDAI about the Plaintiffs rights in the trademark 'iTermf. The Plaintif further

informed the IRDAI that the act of subsequent adoption of identical trademark by the

Defendant amounts to violation of Plaintiffs rights in the trademark 'iTermf and

requested the IRDAI to look into the matter and take suitable steps to protect the

interests of the Plaintif. On 31st May 2018, senior representatives of the Plaintif also

met with concerned ofcials at the "Life" and the "Actuary" departments of IRDAI.

The IRDAI replied on 6th July 2018 wherein the IRDAI stated that a dispute regarding

usage of the term 'iTerm" as a trade mark is not within the jurisdiction of IRDAI and

therefore the Plaintif may approach an appropriate forum. 6. According to the Plaintif, the Defendant by its Advocatefs reply dated 30 th

May 2018 responded to the Plaintiffs cease and desist notice dated 22 nd May 2018. In

the said reply, the Defendant denied the claim of the Plaintif and stated that no trade

mark rights can exist in an expression which is common to the industry where "i"

denotes the Internet and "Term" denotes the nature of the insurance policy. The nitin 5/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: Plaintif vide its rejoinder letter dated 16th June 2018, denied the contentions raised by

the Defendant in its Reply and once again called upon the Defendant to forthwith

cease and desist the use of the impugned mark. Thereafter, the present suit was fled

in June 2018. 7. From a perusal of the record and after hearing the submissions of the Ld.

Senior Advocates for the parties, according to me, the moot question that requires

consideration is whether the Plaintiffs trade mark "iTerm" is inherently distinctive

of its products viz. term insurance policies which are sold over internet or that

whether the Plaintif has acquired immense goodwill and reputation in its mark

"iTerm" that such use of the said expression albeit with additional features by the

Defendant in respect of its term insurance policies sold over internet is likely to lead

to confusion or deception or misrepresentation and consequently damages? The said

question can be considered in three diferent parts: 8. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted, that the trade mark

'iTermf is a coined and invented term and it is inherently distinctive; that it is capable

of distinguishing the Plaintiffs product i.e. insurance policies sold over internet from

those of the others; that the word 'iTermf is not an ordinary English language word

and there is no meaning assigned to the word 'iTermf in the English language; that

the word 'iTermf is not found in any dictionary; that the individual meaning of 'if is

not internet or insurance and "term" is not term insurance, in any dictionary; that

any person hearing the word "iTerm" would never be able to relate it to either

'insurancef or 'term insurancef or 'insurance ofered on internetf since the word

'iTermf is neither an ordinary English language word nor a descriptive term; that the

Plaintif has conceived and adopted a stylized manner of representing the trade mark

by using lowercase "i" and uppercase "T"; that being an invented and coined mark, nitin 7/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: the same deserves the highest degree of protection; that the Plaintif was the frst one

to adopt the trade mark "iTerm" in the year 2009 and no other company was using

the said mark "iTerm" in respect of insurance policies. 8.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon a Google Trends report

obtained from the website www.googletrends.com to fortify his submission that the

Plaintiffs trade mark is a coined / invented word and also a distinctive trade mark. He

submitted that a perusal of the Google Trends report shows that prior to 2009 people

have not searched for word / term 'iTermf as it is not a common English language

word or a descriptive term. He submitted that a bare perusal of the graph of the period

after the Plaintiffs adoption and use of the trade mark iTerm (post 2009) would show

a huge spike in the volume of searches done for the word 'iTermf. He submitted that

the related topics refer to the Plaintiffs name, which also show that the general public

associates the term 'iTermf with the Plaintif. He submitted that this is also a factor

which shows the reputation which the Plaintif has acquired in the trade mark

'iTermf. He submitted that apart from the Plaintif, no one else has used the

expression 'iTermf for insurance products till the Defendant adopted the trade mark

'iTermf in May 2018. He further submitted that had the mark 'iTermf been a

descriptive mark or even perceived as a descriptive mark by the insurance industry, it

would have been used by other persons in the industry. nitin 8/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:58 ::: 8.2 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendant is

estopped from contending that the mark "iTerm" is descriptive. In support of his

submission, he referred to the Defendantfs trade mark "i-LIFE" bearing registration

No.2095003 in Class 36. He submitted that apart from securing registration of the

trade mark "i-LIFE", the Defendant has also applied for registration of trade marks

'i-Shieldf and 'i-Securef. He submitted that in relation to the Plaintiffs trade mark

"iTerm", the Defendant has contended that the said trade mark is descriptive as "i"

refers to "internet" or "insurance" and the "Term" stands for "term insurance".

He submitted that by adopting the same reasoning as propounded by the Defendant, it

can be argued that the "i" in "i-LIFE" represents "insurance" or "internet" and

"Life" represents "life insurance" thereby forming the descriptive term "Life

Insurance". He submitted that despite this, the Defendant chose to assert exclusive

rights over its mark i-LIFE and is therefore estopped from now contending that the

mark "iTerm" is descriptive. He submitted that even though the Defendantfs

registration is for a device mark, the essential and prominent feature of its trade mark

is "i-LIFE". He submitted that when the Registrar of Trade Marks in his Preliminary

Examination Report objected to the registration of the Defendantfs trade mark "i-

LIFE", the Defendant in its Reply stated that its mark when considered as a whole is

not descriptive. Relying upon this Courtfs judgment in the case of UltraTech Cement nitin 9/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Limited v. Alaknanda Cement Pvt. Ltd.1 he submitted that Defendant cannot blow

hot and cold at the same time to suit its convenience. He submitted that having

applied for the registration of a mark such as "i-LIFE", the Defendant is now

estopped from contending that the Plaintiffs mark "i-Term" is descriptive.

8.3 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif referred to the Defendantfs Afdavit

in Sur-rejoinder which states that prior to adopting its mark, the Defendant had

conducted a search in the Trade Marks Registry for similar trade marks but did not

fnd any similar trade mark. He submitted that the fact that the Defendant conducted

a search in the frst place is a proof of the Defendantfs intention to adopt and use

'iTermf as a trade mark and is an implicit admission that the Defendant believed that

the mark 'iTermf could have been applied for or granted registration.

8.4 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that use of "i", "e" and /

or "term" is not descriptive of Term Insurance Plans available online and the same

are not used in a descriptive sense. He submitted that various insurance companies

are using "i" as the frst letter in their respective trade marks; however, the sufx in

each case is diferent and is used to distinguish the companyfs products from the

products ofered by other insurance companies in the market. He submitted that the

marks relied upon by the Defendant to show use of "i", "e" and / or "term" in

respect of policies ofered for sale by various companies such as 'iProtectf, 'iSecuref, 1 2011 SCC Online Bom 783 nitin 10/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 'iShieldf etc. are trade marks of their respective owners who are claiming exclusive

rights and are using the respective trademarks in a distinctive manner, as a trade mark,

and not in a descriptive sense. Defendantfs Submissions : 9. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the mark iTerm / i-

Term is descriptive of the nature and character of the product. He submitted that the

expression 'i-Termf is derived from "i" for internet and/or insurance and "Term"

for the nature of the Insurance Policy. He submitted that considering the Plaintiffs

admission in paragraph 3(i) at page 359 of the Afdavit in Rejoinder, it cannot be

claimed by the Plaintif that the descriptive word "TERM" (denoting the

characteristic of the policy) when combined with the generic letter "i" (not claimed

as proprietary by the Plaintif) constitutes a distinctive trade mark. He submitted that

if both the terms are descriptive, then a combination thereof cannot make the

combination distinctive at all. He relied upon this Courts decision in Faber-Castell

Aktiengesellschaft & Anr. v. M/s Pikpen Private Limited 2. In this case, it was held

that the trade mark 'TEXTLINERf was a combination of 'TEXTf and 'LINERf,

which two words taken independently are purely descriptive and hence the result of

the combination is also descriptive. He submitted that the mark TEXTLINER was

held to be descriptive of the function which the article was intended to perform. He 2 2003 (4) MhLJ 264 nitin 11/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: submitted that this principle is applicable to the present case as 'iTermf is purely

descriptive of the nature of the policy, its characteristic and its availability on the

internet. 9.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the test to ascertain

whether a trade mark is descriptive has been set out in the following judgments: United Biotech (P) Ltd.6, and Garware Polyster India Ltd, Mumbai v. 3M Company

Kegal and Anr.7 . Further, relying upon the English case of Keystone Knitting Mills

Ltd.8 he submitted that that the question whether the word is descriptive or not is to

be decided by applying the test as to what the word would represent to the public at

large. 9.5 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the Plaintiffs

contention that the Defendant is estopped from contending that "i- Term" is

descriptive is also unsustainable. He submitted that frstly, the Defendant has never

made any Application for registration of "i-Term" as a trade mark; and secondly, the

Defendant has never claimed any proprietary rights in the words "i-Term". He

submitted that the word "i-Term" in the Defendantfs trade mark "Aviva i-Term

Smart" is used in a descriptive manner to describe the nature of the Policy, viz. that it

is an online Insurance Policy for a particular term. He submitted that the Defendantfs 6 2011(1) BomCR 89 7 2016 (67) PTC 233 (Bom) 8 XLV RPC 421 nitin 13/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: registration for the mark "i-Life" cannot amount to any admission on the part of the

Defendant that 'if can acquire distinctiveness. He submitted that the said mark is a

device mark. He submitted that the principle laid down in UltraTech Cement Ltd. (supra) is not applicable to the facts of the present case. He submitted that the

principle of estoppel laid down therein is restricted to the facts of that case. He

submitted that the principle becomes applicable only when a defendant applies for

registration of a trade mark which is identical with or similar to the plaintiffs trade

mark and thereby claims proprietary rights therein. He submitted that in the present

case, the Defendant has never claimed any proprietary rights in the expression

"iTerm". He submitted that in UltraTech Cement Ltd. (supra), the Defendant had

applied for registration of the mark 'UltraTuff thereby claiming proprietary rights

therein. He submitted that in the present case, the facts are diferent and, therefore,

the contention that the Defendant is estopped from contending that "iTerm" is not

distinctive or adapted to distinguish is unsustainable. 9.6 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant further submitted that the website

referred to and relied upon by the Plaintif i.e. www.googletrends.com does not exist

and that the alleged data produced by the Plaintif is a permutation and combination of

various parameters of google searches, including queries, adwords and metatags as

entered in the google website, www.trends.google.com. nitin 14/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 9.7 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that both, the Plaintif

and the Defendant, have placed sufcient and more substantial material before this

Court to show various Term Insurance Plans foated by diferent insurance companies

bearing names inter alia "i-growth", "i-force", "i-map", "i-direct", "i-plus", "i-

wealth", "i-clear collect", "i-swift collect", "i-smart collect", "i-anywhere collect",

"i- multipay", "i-mint", "i-LOAN", "i-raksha supreme", "i-secure", "iCancer",

"i-life", "i-protect", "i-fex", "e-shield", "e-term", "iMaximise", "iGuarantee",

"iSURANCE", "i-care", "i-shield" and "iInvest". He submitted that the

expression "i-Term" or "e-Term" does not have any trade mark characteristic and is

generic to the insurance trade and part of common practice. 9.8 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the Plaintif seeks

to make out a case that it is only the letter "i" which is common to the insurance

market. He submitted that, on the contrary, every word which is combined with the

letter "i", such as maximise, fex, care, shield, protect, guarantee, invest, wealth are

generic words which are Publici Juris. He submitted that it is impossible for the

Plaintif to claim monopoly over a combination of such words, which is partly

common to the trade and is factually partly Publici Juris. Observations / Findings : 10. I have considered the above submissions advanced by the Ld. Senior Advocates

for the parties and have also considered the case law relied upon by them. At the nitin 15/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: outset, I must express that the Plaintiffs contention that 'iTermf is an invented mark

and is therefore inherently distinctive is not tenable. Relying on google analytic report,

the Plaintif has claimed that for the period between 1 st January 2005 and 31st August

2009 i.e. the period prior to the adoption and use of the trade mark 'iTermf by the

Plaintif, the search volume for the key word 'iTermf was very low, which according

to the Plaintif indicates that there was very little interest in this key word (paragraph

21 of the Written Submissions). This, according to me belies the case of the Plaintif

that 'iTermf has been coined or invented by the Plaintif. If the mark 'iTermf was

coined or invented by the Plaintif meaning thereby that such mark did not exist prior

to the Plaintiffs adoption, there would be no question of search volume for key word

'iTermf being very low - it would have been absolutely nil. The fact that there was a

usage or search of the expression 'iTermf albeit on a very low scale as admitted by the

Plaintif itself, shows that the said expression 'iTermf existed even prior to the

Plaintiffs adoption and use. Hence, it is not possible to accept the contention of the

Plaintif that it has 'coinedf or 'inventedf the mark 'iTermf.

10.1 Assuming that the mark 'iTermf was coined or invented by the Plaintif in

respect of its insurance policies sold over the internet, it is clear that the said mark is

completely descriptive. It is difcult to believe that the Plaintiffs "iTerm" which is

used in respect of term insurance policies sold over the internet, is not derived from

the commonly / descriptive terms "i" (internet / insurance) and "Term Insurance". nitin 16/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: The test is whether the mark by itself, without reference to anything else, describes

the nature or any characteristics of the product or services. A bare perusal of the mark

"i-Term" with respect to the term insurance policies and without any reference to the

Plaintif or Defendant would suggest that it has something to do with 'internetf or

'term insurancef or 'insurancef. It is a mere combination of two general, common and

known elements. Further, even the combination is not an unusual combination so as

to derive any kind of inherent protection. I believe the mark 'iTermf can surely be

termed as descriptive of the goods and services for which it is being used by the

Plaintif and Defendant. In this day and age, it is common to use the letters "i" and

"e" as prefxes in marks relating to goods and services denoting some kind of

association or suggestion relating to internet or electronics.

10.2 In the case of J.R. Kapoor v. Micronix India (supra) the rival marks were

Microtel and Micronix. It was held that the word 'Microf was descriptive of micro

technology and no one could claim monopoly over the use of the said word. Garware

Polyster India Ltd (supra) was an action for infringement and passing of. Therein the

Court held that the plaintif itself having used the words 'Sun Controlf in a

descriptive manner, the plaintif could not claim monopoly in the use of those words. Similarly, in the case of Schering Corporation (supra). it was held that a proprietor

cannot claim exclusivity in his trade mark or in the name which is derived from a

generic drug. nitin 17/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 10.3 In Faber-Castell (supra) this Court observed that that the mark

"TEXTLINER" was a result of combination of the words TEXT and LINER; that

these two words taken independently are purely descriptive; that the result of the

combination was also descriptive. Similarly, in the present case, the terms "i" and

"Term Insurance" are descriptive and their conjunction is also descriptive. While the

Plaintif may have honestly adopted the mark "iTerm" to distinguish its goods from

those of others, it does not change the fact that the mark is descriptive of the nature of

the product and the mode of purchase / sale of the product. 10.4 The test for a 'descriptive markf is set out in the Corpus Juris Secundum,

Volume 87, Paragraphs 34 and 35 of which are reproduced in paragraph 8 of the

decision in M/s Bharat Enterprises (India ) (supra). The same is reproduced

hereunder: In my view, the Plaintiffs mark is highly descriptive of the goods and services in

respect of which it is used i.e. online term insurances. I do not believe it requires much

imagination on onefs part to conclude that the mark "iTerm" is derived from the

expression "TERM INSURANCE" / "INSURANCE TERM" when used in respect

of insurance policies. In the circumstances the frst impression of the mark upon the

public who comes across the Plaintiffs mark is to signify a connection with the suit

products i.e. term insurances. It cannot be said that the Plaintiffs "iTerm" trade

mark is an arbitrary or fanciful trade mark. 10.5 Further, this Court in the case of Rochem Separation Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd.,

Mumbai v. TAS Engineering Company Ltd. (supra) has held as under : 10.6 Therefore, the Plaintif who is attempting to seek exclusive rights in a

descriptive trade mark must bear and consequently discharge the burden of proving

that its trade mark has acquired such goodwill and reputation so as to acquire a nitin 19/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: secondary meaning / signifcance therein so that the public denotes and connotes the

trade mark to emanate from the Plaintif only and none else. Whether this test has

been satisfed by the Plaintif has been considered by me in the later part of this

judgment. 10.7 Apropos the argument of estoppel raised by the Plaintif against the Defendant

in respect of its trade mark application for the mark 'i-LIFEf, I do not concur with the

same and the Plaintif's reliance upon the case of UltraTech Cement Ltd. (supra) in

the facts of the present case is misplaced. The law of estoppel apropos trade marks is

not that a Defendant who claims a proprietary right in one mark is estopped from

raising a defence, in a suit fled by the Plaintif on the basis of another mark, that the

Plaintiffs mark is descriptive. For a Plaintif to press the doctrine of estoppel, it ought

to show that the Defendant on one hand claims a proprietary right in a particular trade

mark which is admittedly identical with and / or deceptively similar to the Plaintiffs

trade mark and on the other hand claims that the Plaintiffs trade mark is descriptive

and no monopoly can be claimed in respect of the same. It is under such

circumstances, that a Plaintif can press the doctrine of estoppel to prevent the

Defendant from arguing that the Plaintiffs mark is descriptive. In the UltraTech

matter (supra), the Defendant claimed statutory right in the mark 'UltraTuff in

respect of cements by fling a trademark application. When the Plaintif fled a suit for

infringement and passing of against the use of the trade mark 'UltraTuff by the nitin 20/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Defendant, the Defendant took a defence that the term 'UltraTechf containing Ultra

as one of the leading and essential feature is descriptive and therefore the Plaintif

cannot claim monopoly in the same. It was in this background that this Court held that

the Defendant cannot blow hot and cold at the same time. The facts of the present

case are completely diferent. Admittedly, the Plaintif has not claimed any cause of

action against the use of the Defendantfs trade marks 'i-LIFEf, 'i-Shieldf 'i-Securef

since there is no similarity between the Plaintiffs trade mark 'iTermf and

Defendantfs trade marks 'i-LIFEf, 'i-Shieldf 'i-Securef. For the purpose of the

present proceedings, the only relevant trade mark of the Defendant which has been

impugned by the Plaintif is 'i-Term", for which, admittedly, the Defendant has not

fled any trade mark application. Hence, the doctrine of estoppel cannot be pressed

against the Defendant on the basis of completely diferent marks. Further, according

to me the fact that the Defendant has fled trade mark applications for its other marks

'i-LIFEf, 'i-Shieldf 'i-Securef and has chosen not to fle any trade mark application in

respect of the mark 'i-Termf in fact shows that the Defendant did not consider the

same to be a trade mark. 10.8 In so far as the contention of the Plaintif that since the Defendant had

conducted a search in the Register of Trade Marks, it would imply that the Defendant

considered i-Term to be a trade mark, I do not agree with the same. The Defendant

had conducted a search in the Register of Trade Marks for the mark "AVIVA" and nitin 21/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: not i-Term per se. On the basis of such search, it cannot be said that the Defendant

considered 'i-Termf to be a trade mark or wanted to register 'i-Termf as a trade mark.

The proprietors of trade marks may generally conduct a search for the whole of their

mark including the descriptive elements therein for eg. Sterling Stationery, Novelty

Confectionary Store etc. If such kind of searches are conducted, it could not be said

that it implies that the proprietors considered the word "Stationery" or

"Confectionary Store" to be trade marks. 10.9 I am therefore of the opinion that the mark 'iTermf of the Plaintif is not

inherently distinctive of its insurance policies sold over the internet.

Issue B: Whether the Plaintiffs mark "iTerm" has acquired secondary

meaning or such secondary signifcance that it connotes and denotes to the

members of the trade and public, the insurance policies of the Plaintif and no

one else? Plaintiffs Submissions : 11. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that even a descriptive

mark can acquire reputation and become distinctive. He submitted that the Plaintif

who has coined the trade mark 'iTermf has gathered substantial reputation and

goodwill owing to the long, exclusive and continuous use and promotion made by the

Plaintif as well as a result of the excellent products and services ofered by the nitin 22/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Plaintif under the trade mark 'iTermf. He submitted that the Plaintif was the frst

adopter of the trade mark 'iTermf in the year 2009, and the Plaintif alone

continuously used it from 2009 till May 2018 when the Defendant adopted the mark

'iTerm" in respect of its identical products / services. 11.1 To prove the reputation and goodwill acquired by the Plaintif in its trade mark,

the Plaintif has inter alia annexed copies of newspaper and internet publications,

reviews on insurance aggregator websites, print out of customers reviews posted on

third party websites, and print outs of YouTube advertisements in respect of its trade

mark. The Plaintif has also annexed its Chartered Accountantfs Certifcates

certifying its annual sales and promotional expenses in respect of its trade mark

"iTerm". The Plaintif also claims to have sold about 1,50,054 insurance policies

from October 2009 till March 2018. 11.2 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the proviso to section

9(1) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 recognizes that a descriptive mark / word can

acquire distinctiveness by use. He submitted that the material produced by the

Plaintif sufciently establishes that on account of the excellent features and

exceptional services provided by the Plaintif and its long extensive use, the Plaintiffs

products under the trade mark "iTerm" have acquired enormous reputation and

goodwill amongst the Plaintiffs customers and the general public. He submitted that

in view of the same, the trade mark "iTerm" has come to be associated exclusively nitin 23/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: with the Plaintif in this feld and has acquired great reputation and goodwill. He

submitted that the mark 'iTermf has acquired secondary meaning and secondary

signifcance thereby connoting and denoting to the members of the trade and public,

the insurance policy of the Plaintif and no one else. He further submitted that the

Defendant has not disputed authenticity / veracity of the material produced by the

Plaintif for proving reputation in the mark 'iTerm". 11.3 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that even a descriptive

mark can acquire reputation and become distinctive. Reliance was placed upon the

Supreme Courtfs decision in T.V. Venugopal v. Ushodaya Enterprises Limited and

Anr.9 Similarly , he relied upon the decision of this Court in Jagdish Gopal Kamath v.

Lime & Chili Hospitality Services10 in support of his submission that even a generic

or descriptive word can, in some situations, acquire distinctiveness.

Defendantfs Submissions : 12 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the word 'iTermf

has not acquired any secondary signifcance. He submitted that for a descriptive word

to acquire secondary meaning, the test is whether the primary meaning of the word is

forgotten and the descriptive word has acquired secondary signifcance. He submitted

that in the present case, the primary meaning of 'i' denoting internet and/or insurance 9 (2011) 4 SCC 85 10 (2015) 3 Bom CR 496 nitin 24/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: and of 'Termf denoting period in respect of insurance policies cannot be and is not

forgotten. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that there is a

diference between a fancy word and a descriptive word. In support of his

submissions, he relied upon the speeches of Lord Shand and Lord Davy in the English

case of The Cellular Clothing Company Ltd. v. Maxtom & Murray11.

12.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that 'iTermf, 'iTerm

plusf and 'iTerm foreverf are not the Plaintiffs trade marks. He submitted that the

marks, as shown on the Plaintiffs insurance policies are 'Aegon Religare iTermf or

'Aegon iTerm Lifef. He submitted that since the purported launch in 2009 till just

before fling of the above suit, the Plaintif has never asserted proprietary rights in its

mark 'iTermf even by using the 'TMf or 'SMf symbol, let alone fling any trade mark

applications. With respect to the Chartered Accountantfs certifcates produced by the

Plaintif, he submitted that, had the Plaintiffs Chartered Accountants seen the

Plaintiffs policies themselves, they would not have said that the said fgures are in

respect of Trade Marks 'iTermf, 'iTerm plusf and 'iTerm foreverf per se. He

submitted that none of the documents show use of the expression 'iTermf in isolation

and the same is always used as a part of the Plaintiffs whole mark 'Aegon Religarefs

iTermf. 11 1899 Appeal Cases 326 nitin 25/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 12.2 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the total number of

policies issued by the Plaintif from 2009 to 2018 are allegedly only 1,50,054. He

submitted that in the vast population of India, only 1,50,000 policies are claimed to be

sold in 9 years and the alleged total collection of Premium of Rs. 506.73 crores cannot

result in the word 'iTermf acquiring secondary signifcance, particularly in view of the

fact that the word 'iTermf is purely descriptive. 12.3 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that in the case of Jagdish Gopal Kamath (supra), on the basis of the material produced, the Court was

satisfed that the words "Café Madras" were uniquely associated with the Plaintif.

He submitted that in the present case the Plaintif has failed to discharge the burden of

proving that the mark "iTerm" is associated with the Plaintif only. 12.4 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the Plaintif has

failed to prove (i) any distinctiveness in its mark, (ii) any reputation in its mark and (iii) any secondary meaning to its mark. He submitted that the Plaintiffs mark is

incapable of acquiring distinctiveness and has failed to develop any reputation or

secondary character or meaning. He submitted that the contention of the Plaintif that

the mark "iTerm" is capable of acquiring distinctiveness by reason of various

registrations of trade marks containing the letter "i" is unsustainable in a passing of

action. He submitted that in view of Section 27(2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, in a

passing of action, the Plaintif is required to establish that the trade mark claimed by nitin 26/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: him is capable of acquiring distinctiveness. He submitted that the material produced

in this case clearly shows that "iTerm" is not capable of acquiring distinctiveness.

Observations / Findings : 13. I have considered the submissions advanced and the case law cited by the Ld.

Senior Advocates for the parties on the above issue. I have already observed that the

mark 'iTermf is descriptive of the goods and services in respect of which it is used by

the Plaintif and the Defendant. There can be no dispute that even a descriptive word

can be used as a trade mark provided it has become well-known and has acquired a

secondary meaning. The principle that even a descriptive term can acquire

distinctivness and a proprietor can seek injunction on the basis of such mark is well

settled. In T.V. Venugopal (supra), the Supreme Court has held as under : 13.1 In Jagdish Gopal Kamath (supra), this Court has held as under: The Supreme Court itself has held that the "part of speech" test does
 not accurately describe case law results. ..." 13.2 So, the question before me is whether the Plaintif has discharged the

burden of proving that the mark 'iTermf has acquired such secondary meaning and

signifcance that on mentioning 'iTermf, only the Plaintiffs insurance policies would nitin 29/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: be thought of by the consumers? From a perusal of the material produced before this

Court and the arguments advanced, the answer is in the negative.

13.3 It is a settled principle of law that words used in everyday language, are

not to be allowed to be monopolized. The material annexed by the Plaintif inter alia

comprising of online and ofine publications, promotional material etc. is, according

to me, inadequate to hold that Plaintiffs mark 'iTermf has acquired the requisite

goodwill and reputation for 'iTermf to lose its primary meaning and acquire a

secondary meaning so as to denote the goods and services of the Plaintif only. It is

pertinent to note that the mark of the Plaintif is a descriptive mark and the burden to

be discharged by the Plaintif to gain a secondary meaning is very high. It is a settled

principle of law that in order to prove that a mark has acquired a secondary

signifcance, the documents on record must show that the descriptive expression in

question is now frmly established in the public mind with the Plaintif and its goods

and services. In the case of Stokely Van Camp, Inc & Anr. v Heinz India Pvt Ltd.12 where the issue was whether 'Rehydrate Replenish Refuelf had acquired secondary

signifcance, the Delhi High Court held: 13.4 In the case of IHHR Hospitality Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Bestech India Pvt. Ltd. 13, the

Division Bench of the Delhi High Court while considering whether the word

'Anandaf in relation to abode had acquired any secondary meaning, had observed the

following: 13.5 In the English case of Cellular Clothing (supra) the diference between a fancy

word and a descriptive word has been elicited. It is stated therein that to claim

monopoly in a descriptive word the burden of proof on the plaintif is high. The

relevant paragraphs from Cellular Clothing (supra) relied upon by the Defendant are

reproduced below : Lord Davy

 "But there are two observations which must be made: one is that a man
 who takes upon himself to prove that words, which are merely descriptive or
 expressive of the quality of the goods, have acquired the secondary sense to
 which I have referred, assumes a much greater burden - and, indeed, a
 burden which it is not impossible, but at the same time extremely difcult,
 to discharge - a much greater burden than that of a man who undertakes to
 prove the same thing of a word not significant and not descriptive, but what
 has been compendiously called a "fancy" word." 13.6 The parameters which are required to be met for an otherwise descriptive mark

to have acquired a secondary meaning or secondary signifcance have been laid down

by this Court in the case of People Interactive (India) Private Limited vs. Vivek nitin 33/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Pahwa and Ors.14 . In that case, while considering whether shaadi.com had acquired a

secondary meaning, this Court has observed the following: That is the claim. 16. How is the acquisition of a secondary meaning to be shown or
 establishedf Does commercial success, even a high degree of success, 14 MIPR 2017(1) 0161 nitin 34/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: always result in the acquisition of a 'secondary meaning'f I do not
 believe this can be so. There is no presumption of secondary meaning
 acquisition. That needs proof; and the proof must be of
 uninterrupted use of considerable longevity without a competitor
 attempting to use it.23 When a person uses a common phrase, he
 runs the risk that others might also use the same expression or
 another very like it. In British Vacuum Cleaner Company Limited
 v. New Vacuum Cleaner Company Limited 1907 (2) Ch. D. 312, 328., on which Dr. Tulzapurkar relies, Parker J held that there is
 a distinction between ordinary descriptive words and a 'fancy
 word', one that does not primarily relate to the article, but perhaps
 to the person manufacturing it. There can be no restraint against
 the use of general words. The decision in Ofce Cleaning Services
 Ltd. v. Westminster Window and General Cleaners Ltd. (1946) 63
 R.P.C. 39, 43., too, supports Dr. Tulzapurkar's contention. The
 expression in dispute was 'ofce cleaning'. The appellants claimed
 the expression was identified with their business to such an extent
 that any other traders who wished to use the expression as part of
 their trade name would have to diferentiate it. Simons J held that
 where a trader adopts words in common use for his trade name,
 some risk of confusion is inevitable. But that risk must be run, or
 else the first user would be allowed to unfairly monopolise the words.
 In matters of this nature, courts accept even the smallest diferences
 sufcient to avert confusion. nitin 35/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 18. Exclusivity claims based on secondary meaning acquisition must be
 established by cogent material. References to sales and promotional
 expenses may be used to establish the acquisition of reputation and
 goodwill, i.e., to show the popularity of a mark. Mere use and
 statements of sales and expenses do not, of their own, establish the
 acquisition of a secondary meaning. That proof is always required
 of goods or services in the second category, 'merely descriptive'
 expressions; for these are not ordinarily registrable without such
 proof. That proof must be directed to establishing that the 'merely
 descriptive' expression in question is now firmly established in the
 public imagination with the claimant and its goods and services.
 High sales and expenses will not do; the claimant must show from
 carefully neutralized market surveys, etc., that this is indeed how
 the public perceives the mark - not as a mere description, but a
 pointed reference to the origin, viz., the claimant. Use itself does
 not establish distinctiveness. The extent to which a mark has lost its
 primary meaning and the extent to which it has acquired a
 secondary one are conclusions to be drawn from evidence. That
 evidence, showing the displacement of the primary meaning by the
 secondary meaning, must be of the members of the public as well,
 not merely those specially placed to attest to its uniqueness."

In the above case, this Court has carefully considered what is meant by the expression

that a mark has acquired secondary signifcance. I agree with the observation made in

the above case that to arrive at a conclusion that a trade mark has acquired secondary nitin 36/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: signifcance mere commercial success of its proprietor shall not draw a presumption in

its favour. 13.7 In the present case, the Plaintif has a higher burden to discharge whereby it

must establish that in the public mind, the meaning of 'iTermf does not bear any

reference but to the goods / services of the Plaintif. Further, it must show that in the

public mind the descriptive meaning of 'iTermf is lost and the mark 'iTermf has

acquired a secondary meaning / signifcance which marks the origin of the goods /

services in respect of which it is used, to the Plaintif. 13.8 The Plaintif has produced its sales fgures, promotional expenses and

promotional literature to demonstrate the goodwill and reputation acquired by it.

However, I do not fnd any material that would indicate, much less prove, that when

the Plaintiffs mark 'iTermf is used in respect of its goods / services the public

immediately gather the same as that of the Plaintif. There are over 1 billion people in

India and the Plaintif has sold only about 0.15 million insurance policies from October

2009 till date. Further, the Plaintiffs promotional expenses, amounting to Rs.115

Crores, and sales, amounting to Rs.503.73 Crores, do not assist the Plaintiffs

assertion of the mark 'iTermf acquiring secondary meaning. The fgures are not in

respect of Plaintiffs product bearing the expression 'iTermf per se. The Plaintif

when adopting a descriptive mark such as 'iTermf in respect of its term insurance nitin 37/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: policies ought to have been aware that other parties might adopt deceptively similar or

identical trade marks in respect of their term insurance policies.

13.9 In my opinion, a mere use of the mark albeit continuous does not necessarily

translate into the mark obtaining secondary distinctive meaning. The extent to which

a mark has lost its primary meaning and the extent to which it has acquired a

secondary one are conclusions to be drawn from evidence. High sales and expenses

cannot be the sole criteria and the Plaintif must show market trends, market surveys

etc. to show that this is indeed how the public now perceives the mark and not as a

mere description. The principle behind not granting any protection to the descriptive

marks is that everyone has a right to use such trademarks, and that it would embarrass

the trade or industry if only one manufacturer was to monopolise the use of such

descriptive mark. Furthermore, protection of such descriptive mark has the tendency

to reduce the use of ordinary and commonly used expressions to describe a product. I

see substance in the Defendantfs argument that until the fling of the present action,

the Plaintif has not asserted proprietary rights in its mark 'iTermf whether it is by

using the 'TMf symbol alongside its trade mark or seeking statutory rights /

protection by registration of its trade mark (the Plaintiffs trade mark applications

were fled shortly before fling of the present action). I believe that had the Plaintiffs

Chartered Accountants actually seen the Plaintiffs insurance policies under its trade nitin 38/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: marks, they would not have been of the opinion that the fgures stated in their

certifcates are in respect of the mark "iTerm" simplicitor.

13.10 There is one more important factor which weighs against the Plaintif and its

claim of monopolizing the expression 'iTermf. Admittedly, the suit

products/insurance policies of the Plaintif are ofered/sold under the trade mark

"Aegon Religarefs iTerm" or "Aegonfs iTerm Life". The names of these

products/insurance policies are not 'iTermf per se. Hence, when the said products of

the Plaintif are advertised or ofered for sale to the customers, the customers are not

subjected to only the expression 'iTermf but to the whole trade mark of the Plaintif

i.e. Aegon Religarefs iTerm or Aegonfs iTerm Life. This is completely diferent than

a case where consumers are subjected to a specifc term only, albeit of a descriptive

nature, as a trade mark. I believe that when a party claims that a part of its trade mark,

which is otherwise descriptive in nature, has achieved a secondary signifcance, like in

the present case, there has to be cogent and specifc evidence even at an interlocutory

stage to show that such part is also being used by the Plaintif independently or that

such part is the leading and essential feature of the trade mark actually used by the

Plaintif or that such part is being used in such a manner by the Plaintif that the

consumers identify and associate such part with the Plaintif and no one else. The

Plaintif has failed to show any of these requirements. nitin 39/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 13.11 Therefore, I am of the view that the Plaintif has been unable to discharge the

burden to prove that the mark 'iTermf has acquired secondary meaning or such

secondary signifcance that it connotes and denotes to the members of the trade and

public, the insurance policies of the Plaintif and no one else.

Issue C: Whether the Defendantfs use of its mark 'Aviva i-Term Smartf in

respect of its insurance policies sold over the internet likely to cause

misrepresentation or confusion or deception in the minds of consumers and

consequently is there a likelihood of damage to the Plaintif - Whether the

Defendantfs activities constitute passing of. Plaintiffs Submissions 14. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that a passing of action

exists in common law and is in a sense superior to an infringement action as it is not

dependent on any statute. He submitted that the only diference between an

infringement action and a passing of action is that once a mark is registered the

registered proprietor is entitled to an additional remedy under the Trade Marks Act,

1999 . He submitted that the law recognises the principle that priority in use is a

superior right than priority in registration. He submitted that the registration of a

trade mark merely recognizes the rights which are already pre-existing in common law nitin 40/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: and does not create any new rights. In support of his submissions, the Ld. Senior

Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon the following judgments: This was precisely the view which was expressed by Lord Justice
 Romer in (1905) I KB 592 to which I have already referred in the
 earlier part of the judgment. To summarise, therefore, a trader
 acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it
 upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such
 user and the extent of his trade. The trader who adopts such a mark
 is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible
 character is launched upon the market. As between two competitors
 who are each desirous of adopting such a mark, "it is, to use familiar
 language, entirely a question of who gets there first." Gaw Kan Lye
 v. Saw Kyone Saying AIR 1939 Rang 343 (FB). Registration under
 the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any
 greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity
 without registration. It does, however, facilitate a remedy which may
 be enforced and obtained throughout the State and it established the
 record of facts afecting the right to the mark. Registration itself does
 not create a trade mark. The trade mark exists independently of the
 registration which merely afords further protection under the
 statute. Common law rights are left wholly unafected. Priority in
 adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in
 registration." S. Syed Mohideen v. P. Sulochana Bai16 "23. The above were the reasonings from the provisions arising from the
 plain reading of the Act which gives clear indication that the rights of
 prior user are superior than that of registration and are unafected by
 the registration rights under the Act. Secondly, there are other 15 UP (2007) 3 SCC 780 16 (2016) 2 SCC 683 nitin 41/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: additional reasonings as to why the passing of rights are considered
 to be superior than that of registration rights. Thirdly, it is also recognized principle in common law jurisdiction
 that passing of right is broader remedy than that of infringement...

 Fourthly, It is also well settled principle of law in the field of the
 trademarks that the registration merely recognizes the rights which
 are already pre-existing in common law and does not create any
 rights... 25. ... When the Plaintif has proved that the person who gets into the
 business at the first point of time acquired the right to use the trade
 mark, the priority in use of the trade mark by the Plaintif will have
 to be recognized in law. Accordingly, when the Plaintif has earned
 the reputation and goodwill in the business in the name and style of
 'Iruttukadai Halwa', the Defendant cannot simply add the word
 'Tirunelveli Iruttukadai Halwa', as the same has been used prior in
 point of time by the Plaintif. Therefore, the Court is of the
 considered opinion that allowing the Defendant to use the trade mark
 ' Tirunelveli Iruttukadai Halwa' will amount to deceiving the
 public, hence, no one can be permitted to encroach upon the goodwill
 and reputation of other party, particularly when a specific mark,
 though may be a descriptive word, has acquired a subsidiary meaning
 and is fully admitted by the particular company and when a party
 who cannot be termed as a honest current user of the mark on the
 reputation and goodwill of the company, it will constitute invasion of
 the proprietary right, hence, the same cannot be permitted any
 longer. In a situation like this, it is the bounden duty and obligation
 of the Court not only to protect the goodwill and reputation of the
 prior user, but also to protect the interest of the consumers."

14.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the rival marks are

identical. He submitted that the mark 'i-Termf is being used by the Defendant in

respect of life insurance policies over the internet and therefore it operates in the same nitin 42/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: feld of activity as that of the Plaintif. He submitted that the potential customers of

the rival products are the same; the distribution channels through which the products

are ofered are the same and therefore, there is every likelihood of confusion and/or

deception and/or association with the Plaintiffs 'iTermf range of products. He

submitted that the largest market for the rival products is the same viz. internet and

any search carried out by an average customer who is familiar with the Plaintiffs

'iTermf range of products for the keyword "iTerm", would also return / display

results pertaining to the impugned mark, including links to the website of the

Defendant. He submitted that the consumers are therefore likely to be confused and

misled, which could result in them obtaining policies of the Defendant instead of

those of the Plaintif. 14.2 In tandem, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon the Supreme

Courtfs decision in the matter of Heinz Italia and Another v. Dabur India Ltd. 17.

The relevant excerpt relied upon by the Plaintif is reproduced below: (2007) 6 SCC 1 nitin 43/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 14.3 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendant has

illegally and dishonestly adopted the same / identical term for its online insurance

product to ride upon the immense reputation and goodwill accrued to the Plaintif. He

submitted that since the Plaintif has already launched variants of the "iTerm"

insurance products such as "iTerm plus" and "iTerm Forever", there is a real

possibility that innocent consumers will perceive the Defendantfs "i-Term" trade

mark and its insurance product sold under that trade mark as a line-extension of the

Plaintiffs 'iTermf range of products and thereby associate the same with the Plaintif.

He submitted that in the present case, there is quadruple identity which makes

confusion inevitable - identity of rival marks, identity of the products, identity of the

trade channels and identity of the customers. 14.4 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif further submitted that the confusion

amongst the consumers will lead to situations where a consumer will be directed to

the Defendantfs website, only to later realize that it is not the website for the product

he / she was looking for viz. the Plaintiffs product. He relied upon the principle of

"initial interest confusion", which, he submitted, is a sufcient factor for passing of.

To substantiate his argument on the principle of initial interest confusion, the Ld.

Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon a judgment of the United States Court of nitin 44/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Appeals in the case of Brookfeld Communications Inc v. West Coast Entertainment

Corporation18. The relevant excerpt of the judgment is reproduced below: to its web site, West Coast improperly benefits from the goodwill that
 Brookfield developed in its mark. Recently in Dr. Seuss, we explicitly
 recognized that the use of another's trademark in a manner calculated "to
 capture initial consumer attention, even though no actual sale is finally
 completed as a result of the confusion, may be still an infringement." Dr.
 Seuss, 109 F.3d at 1405 (citing Mobil Oil Corp. v. Pegasus Petroleum
 Corp., 818 F.2d 254, 257-58 (2d Cir. 1987)).[fn24]" 14.8 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif also relied upon the Supreme Courtfs

decision in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah & Anr. 21 . The

relevant excerpt of the judgment is reproduced below: 2002 (24) PTC 1 (SC) nitin 48/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 14.9 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the three ingredients

of passing of viz. (i) goodwill, (ii) misrepresentation and (iii) damage or likelihood

thereof have been completely established by the Plaintif in the present case. He

submitted that the manner in which the present Defendant has adopted an almost

identical mark for an identical product would certainly lead to misrepresentation

amongst public at large. Defendantfs Submissions 15. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the case law cited

by the Plaintif relate to infringement actions and the principles laid down therein

would apply to infringement actions. He submitted that the Plaintif cannot rely upon

those cases in the present case which are admittedly based solely on the cause of

action for passing of. 15.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that the mark "i-Term" Plaintiffs Rejoinder 16. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendantfs

argument that the Plaintiffs mark 'iTermf is always used by the media and the

Plaintif, along with the corporate name of the Plaintif (i.e. 'Aegonf) is factually

incorrect and contrary to documents on record. Referring to the Defendantfs trade

mark applications before the Trade Marks Registry, he submitted that the Defendant

itself has registered its trade marks such as 'iLifef and 'iSheildf without its corporate

name (i.e. Aviva) which shows that the Defendant itself considers that the corporate

name is not part of the trade mark. 16.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that customers refer to

particular products by their product identifcation marks which are entitled to nitin 55/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: protection under law. He submitted that several companies, in almost all felds,

manufacture products / ofer services of diferent nature and ofer them for sale under

various trade marks along with the companyfs house mark. However, consumers

largely refer to / identify the said products / services by the individual product

identifcation mark, de hors the house mark. To validate his point, he drew an example

from motor vehicles companies such as Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai whose cars are

known by their product identifcation marks being Swift, i10, i20, etc. The Ld. Senior

Advocate for the Plaintif also relied upon a table mentioning various policies ofered

by the Plaintif and some of its competitors, along with their product identifcation

marks. He submitted that when a consumer asks for a policy, he does not simply say

he wants a LIC policy, but will refer to the identifcation mark of the policy. He relied

upon this Courtfs decision in Hem Corporation Pvt. Ltd. v. ITC Limited 27 in support

of his submission that the alleged intention of the Defendant to use 'i-Termf in a

descriptive sense is immaterial if the use is likely to be taken as use of a trade mark. He

submitted that the test is not whether a person terms the use of a mark as a brand

name or a sub-brand and if the use of a mark is to distinguish or is capable of

distinguishing the goods or services of a person, it is a trademark amenable to the

provisions of the Act. 27 2012 (52) PTC 600 nitin 56/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 16.2 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon this Courtfs decision in Pidilite Industries Limited v. Jubilant Agri & Consumer Products Limited 28 wherein

this Court held that product identifcation marks are also considered as trade marks

and their use, albeit with the defendantfs house mark, would constitute infringement

and passing of. The relevant excerpt of this judgment is reproduced below : 16.3 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the requirement set

out by IRDAI making it mandatory to state the name of the insurance company in the

name of the insurance plan made available by the insurer for the purpose of life

insurance would not diminish the likelihood of confusion. He submitted that to accept 28 2014 (57) PTC 617 (Bom) nitin 57/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: the Defendantfs submissions would cause havoc in the market as everyone will start

using popular trademarks of policies along with their house mark. The Ld. Senior

Advocate for the Plaintif drew an analogy between IRDAIfs mandatory requirement

to state the corporate name along with the policy, and mandatory requirements under

acts such as the Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 which require the manufacturer to specify certain information on the packaging of its

products. He submitted that the compliance of such mandatory requirements does not

and cannot defeat trade mark rights of any person, under statute and / or under

common law. In support of his submissions, he relied upon a decision of the Supreme

Court in Ramdev Food Products (P) Ltd. v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel and Ors. 29 and

this Courtfs decision in Tilaknagar Industries Ltd. v. Somarasa Distilleries & Anr. 30. 16.4 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendantfs

reliance upon the case of Kaviraj Durga Dutt Sharma (supra) is misplaced. He

submitted that the Defendant has not discharged the burden of proving that the added

material to his use of mark 'iTERMf is sufcient to distinguish his product from that

of the Plaintif. He submitted that the Plaintif has already relied upon the decision of

this Court in Hem Corporation (supra), wherein it is held that addition of corporate

name to the trade mark shall not distinguish his trade mark from that of the Plaintif.

The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that in any case 'iTermf is the 29 (2006) 8 SCC 726 30 Notice of Motion No.1665 of 2007 nitin 58/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: leading and essential feature of its trade mark. He submitted that the Defendantfs

adoption of the same expression i.e. the Plaintiffs mark, constitutes passing of.

Reliance was placed upon James Chadwick & Bros., Ltd. v. The National Sewing

Thread Co. Ltd.31 : 16.5 He further submitted that the Defendant has incorrectly relied upon the US

Court of Appeals case Network Automation, Inc. (supra) to contend that the test laid

down in Brookfeld (supra) has been diluted. He submitted that the Plaintif had

mainly relied upon the judgment of Brookfeld in the context of 'initial interest

confusionf, which position of law remains undiluted. ILR 1952 Bom 344 nitin 59/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 16.6 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that insurance policies are

purchased by everyone - educated, uneducated, literate (in English) or not, villagers

and urban people, young and old people, rich, middle class and poor. He submitted

that for products like insurance policies there is 'no class of consumersf. He

submitted that merely because a person has access to the internet does not make him

'conscious customerf and such consumers cannot be equated to the loyal and

discerning consumers of Scotch whiskey or luxury cars referred to in the cases of Khoday Distilleries (supra) and the LANCER Trade Mark case (supra). He

submitted that customers on the internet are not particularly sophisticated / rich,

especially when one of the unique selling points of online insurance is that it is cheap

as one does not need to pay an agent commission. He submitted that in the case of Khoday Distilleries (supra), the products in question were scotch whiskeys which

have a specifc class of consumers and as the Court itself had recorded, the consumers

of the product scotch whiskey are 'educated and richf. He submitted that the

customers who buy insurance policies belong to all walks of life and cannot be equated

with highly discerning consumers of scotch whiskey. He submitted that in Paragraphs

67 and 79 of the judgment the Supreme Court has reiterated the settled principle of

law that if the product is to be purchased by both villagers and town people then the

test of a prudent man should necessarily be applied. He submitted that this Court in nitin 60/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Gorbatschow Vodka v. John Distilleries32 held that it is incorrect to suggest that those

who are educated or afuent have the ability to discern, since they have higher

disposable incomes, or that persons who do not belong to that category are more likely

to be deceived. 16.7 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the factors which

were considered by the Court in the case of likelihood of confusion between two

luxury cars 'LANCIAf and 'LANCERf are not relevant while considering the

identical mark 'iTermf in relation to insurance policies. He submitted that the

LANCER case was considered by this Court in the case of Goldgem Overseas v.

Flawless Diamond (India) Ltd.33 where it was held that the consideration in case of

expensive luxury cars is diferent from the case of 'diamondsf. In support of the above

submission, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon the judgment in South India Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. General Mills Marketing Inc.34 16.8 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the efect of the

Defendantfs argument that consumers are discerning consumers who will be able to

diferentiate between the rival products, is that it can usurp valuable trademarks and

intellectual property of someone and then place the burden on the public to exercise

vigilance, carry out due diligence etc. He further submitted that the Supreme Court in 32 2011 (4) Mh.L.J. 842 33 2009 (2) Bom CR 30 - Paras 18-19, 23 to 26 34 2015 (61) PTC 231 (Del) Paras 41 and 42 nitin 61/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Paragraphs 26 and 27 of its judgment Cadila Health Care Limited (supra) has held

that even doctors and trained chemists are not immune to confusion and deception

when it comes to identical / similar marks. He submitted that, it cannot be said that

merely because a person is capable of using internet, he cannot be confused or that he

is immune to deception. Observations / Findings 17. It is important to note here that the present action is only an action for passing

of and not for infringement of the Plaintiffs trade mark. 17.1 The principles that (i) registration under the statute does not confer any new

right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common

law and at equity without registration; (ii) registration merely facilitates a remedy

which may be enforced and obtained throughout the country; (iii) registration itself

does not create a trade mark and the trade mark exists independently of the

registration which merely afords further protection under the statute; (iv) common

law rights are left wholly unafected; and (v) priority in adoption and use of a trade

mark is superior to priority in registration are absolutely well settled. While there

cannot be any quarrel with the above principles, the same does not and cannot mean

that the prior user without frst showing that it has acquired the requisite goodwill and

reputation in its trade mark seek injunction against the subsequent user. The nitin 62/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: principles governing a case of passing of action are substantially diferent from an

action for infringement. Unlike an action for infringement which is a statutory remedy

provided under the Trade Marks Act , passing of is a remedy in common law and the

principles governing it are found in judicial precedents. At this juncture it seems

crucial to point out that the matter at hand is not an ordinary case of passing of since

the rival products are not openly available in physical market but are available online.

Further, the sale of these products is closely regulated by Government bodies such as

the IRDAI. It would be fundamental to keep these facts in mind before applying the

common principles of passing of. 17.2 Traditionally, passing of in common law is a right for protection of

goodwill in the business against misrepresentation caused in the course of trade and

for prevention of resultant damage on account of the said misrepresentation. It is a

settled principle of law that in an action for passing of, to succeed, the Plaintif must

satisfy three important ingredients: The fve guidelines as originally laid out by Lord Diplock in Erven Warnink v.

Townend & Sons Ltd.35 (the "Advocate Case") were reduced to the above three by

Lord Oliver in the case of Reckitt & Colman Products Ltd. v. Borden Inc 36 which is

popularly known as "Jif Lemon" case. The said three guidelines are referred to as the

classic trinity test. Passing of action is essentially an action in deceit where no person

is entitled to carry on his or her business on pretext that the said business is of that of

another. The reasons why a prior user is considered to be superior than that of any

other rights is simple - a proprietor who has acquired goodwill and reputation by the

prior and continuous use of its trade mark is entitled to protect such goodwill and

reputation against any subsequent user of the mark who misrepresents his business as

that of business of the prior right holder. For the purpose of granting relief on the

basis of passing of, it is necessary to examine whether the Plaintif has generated the

goodwill in the market and whether the Defendantfs user is causing misrepresentation

in the course of trade and damaging the goodwill and reputation of the Plaintif or

there is a likelihood thereof. 17.3 In an action for infringement, the Court considers the identity or deceptive

similarity between the registered trade mark of the plaintif and the mark used by the 35 1979) AC 731, 742 (HL) 36 (1990) 1 AllE.R. 873 nitin 64/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: defendant. Since the present action is one in passing of and not infringement, the

Court must consider how the marks are actually used by the Plaintif and the

Defendant. Now, it is a settled principle that to ascertain the likelihood of confusion

or deception the rival trade marks must be compared as a whole. In the present case,

admittedly, the IRDAI guideline mandatorily requires insurance companies such as

the Plaintif and the Defendant to use their corporate name in the name of their

policies for life insurance. A perusal of the record shows that the trade marks used by

the Plaintif are "Aegon Religarefs iTerm" or "Aegonfs iTerm Life" and the trade

mark used by the Defendant is "Aviva i-Term Smart". The Ld. Senior Advocate for

the Plaintif sought to distinguish the Plaintiffs case by stating that "Aegon" is the

Plaintiffs house mark, whereas "iTerm" is its product identifcation mark and

similarly, "Aviva" is the Defendantfs house mark, and "i-Term" is the Defendantfs

product identifcation mark and that the Plaintiffs product identifcation mark must

be compared with the Defendantfs product identifcation mark. I may have concurred

with the Plaintif and compared simpliciter the rival product identifcation marks as

propounded, if the present suit would have been a suit for infringement of Plaintiffs

registered trade mark 'iTermf per se. This is not a suit for infringement and the

Plaintif is not a registered proprietor of the trade mark 'iTermf per se. The present

suit being a suit for passing of, the law dictates that the overall impression of the rival

trade marks including the added material in the Defendantfs trade mark must be nitin 65/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: considered. The following observations of the Supreme Court in the landmark case of Kaviraj Pandit Durgadatta Sharma (supra) are important: (Emphasis Added)

While some features may be similar between the rival marks, the Defendant may not

be liable for passing of, if it can prove that the remaining features in its mark are

sufcient to distinguish its goods from those of the Plaintif. In the present case, while

comparing the rival marks, i.e. "Aegon Religarefs iTerm" or "Aegonfs iTerm Life" 17.9 It is pertinent to note that the suits in Brookfeld (supra) were fled nearly two

decades prior to the present suit. In the interregnum the use of electronic devices to

access the internet has increased overwhelmingly. The average person is much more

adept to conduct online searches and is less likely to be confused as compared to a

customer browsing online 18 years ago. In the case of Network Automation (supra)

relied upon by the Defendant, the US Court recognized this development in the class

of customers who access the internet for their demands. The Court recognized that

users in 2011 were more educated and the test in Brookfeld cannot be blindly applied

to the matter in 2011. The said case clearly establishes that (i) the initial interest

confusion arises even if the customer goes to the defendantfs site knowing that it is

not the site of the plaintif and, as such, is not a strict test, more so in view of the fact

that in the present times, an educated searcher on internet, by merely going to the

defendantfs site or seeing defendantfs product, does not in any manner allow the nitin 74/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: defendant to take beneft of the reputation of the plaintif, (ii) what is required to be

considered is how the search is made and the efect of such search, (iii) the factor that

the customer, though knowing that the product mentioned therein is not of the

plaintif, but results in the defendant getting monetary beneft, is not a determinant

factor to conclude that there is confusion. In comparison, the present suit is of 2018.

In my view it is unlikely that a person who accesses the internet in this day and age

would be confused or deceived by the Defendantfs use of the expression 'i-Termf in

the name of its insurance policies. As I have already observed, the Plaintif has been

unable to establish that its iTerm mark has acquired such secondary signifcance that

any person who sees the expression 'iTermf would immediately associate the same

with the Plaintif and the Plaintif only. Since the sale of the subject insurance policies

is online, I am not inclined to assume that a prospective customer searching for

policies online would use the keyword "iTerm" alone to look for the Plaintiffs

policies. I see merit in the Defendantfs submission that such customer even after

coming across the Defendantfs insurance policy would go back and also review the

policy being ofered by the Plaintif. 17.10 It is further pertinent to note that insurance policies are long term

fnancial commitments through which customers seek to secure important aspects of

their lives. More often than not, a decision is preceded by a search and discussion into

the various options available for them. A customer who sees the Defendantfs policy is nitin 75/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: likely to see other policies including the Plaintiffs before deciding on one. The

customers who purchase online Term Insurance Policy Plans have to read and

understand various terms since the Policy Holder cannot plead ignorance about these

terms after the Policy is purchased. Some of the general terms required to be read and

understood before purchasing online term insurance policy are as follows

[Defendantfs Afdavit in Reply - Exhibit 4 (Pages 64 to 73) and Exhibit 5(Page 74)]: 17.11 Insurance policies are purchased after studying the material, particularly the

credibility, reliability and fnancial standing of the company which is issuing the

policy, its record as to entertainment of claim or rejection of claims, various features

of the insurance policy etc. and, after giving careful thought to the aforesaid, a

decision is made in selecting a particular insurance policy. These policies are not

purchased on the spur of the moment. The Supreme Court in Khoday Distilleries (supra) held that the class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods by their

education and intelligence and the degree of care which they are likely to exercise in

purchasing or using the goods must be considered. While persons from all walks of life

are free to purchase insurance policies online, customers who purchase policies online

are usually literate persons since they are required to read and understand inter alia

the terms and conditions applicable to the policy being purchased by them. The

LANCER trade mark case (supra) is also a helpful illustration of a similar market

where the buyer makes his purchase with care and after deliberation. Rival marks in

this case were LANCIAf and 'LANCERf, used in respect of cars. The Court therein

has considered the nature of the goods and the manner in which purchase was made to

arrive at the conclusion that notwithstanding the degree of phonetic similarity

between the two marks, there was no real tangible danger of confusion. nitin 78/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 17.12 Due to the nature of insurance policies as a product and the manner in which

they are sold, they cannot be compared with ordinary goods which are available across

the counter such as sweets or even pharmaceutical products. The purchasers of

insurance policies take an informed decision which makes it unlikely that in the

process of such decision the purchasers are confused by a slight phonetic or visual

similarity of the names in respect of such products. I must clarify that this Court is not

assuming that the discerning capacity of customers is based on their education or

wealth. The logic underlying this Courtfs rationale is that the class of customers who

are purchasing insurance policies online are likely to have conducted a fair research

into their options and the benefts ofered to them under each policy; that a slight

similarity in the rival names would not be enough to cause confusion or deception

when a conscious and relatively informed decision is being taken. In view thereof, the

principle set out in Gorbatschow Vodka (supra) is not helpful to the Plaintiffs case. Further, the goods involved in the case of Goldgem case (supra) were diamonds. The

principle set out in Goldgem case (supra) would not be applicable to the present case

since due to the nature of goods i.e. diamonds, the class of consumers who purchase

diamonds and the mode of purchasing them is distinct from the present case involving

insurance policies. Unlike purchasers of diamonds who are dependent on the guidance

of gemmologists and are dependent almost entirely on the brand name, purchasers of

insurance policies have the ability to discern the best policy available to them nitin 79/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: depending upon the terms and more particularly the Company which is ofering the

same. Thus, the ratio in of Goldgem (supra) is also inapplicable to the present case.

17.13 I therefore hold that considering the nature of the rival marks, rival products,

the class of purchasers who are likely to buy these products and the mode of

purchasing these products, there is no question of any confusion or deception between

the rival trade marks. Particularly, considering the nature of the goods and the manner

in which insurance policies are purchased, there is no possibility of persons who are

buying insurance policies online after analysis and considering the pros and cons,

getting confused. 17.14 In so far as the Plaintiffs argument of being frst in the market and

hence being entitled to an injunction against the Defendant is concerned, I am not

accepting the same. While the Plaintif may have been the frst in the market, to adopt

the expression 'iTermf, would that mere fact be enough to create exclusive

proprietary rights in the said expression in favour of the Plaintif? I think not. The

"frst in the market" test may have been applicable if the mark "iTerm" was

distinctive of the Plaintiffs goods and services. I have held it is not. The case of Laxmikant V. Patel (supra) was decided on the basis that long prior user conferred

rights on the party and is required to be protected, which is not the position in the

present case. In the absence of the Plaintif having acquired the requisite goodwill or

reputation in the expression 'iTermf, it cannot be said that the Defendant indulged in nitin 80/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: unfair competition as the Defendant has not used any false or misleading devices to

get any beneft of the alleged reputation allegedly acquired by the Plaintif. Thus, the

said case shall not assist the Plaintif. 17.15 In the absence of the Plaintif having established that its trade mark "iTerm" is

in fact a trade mark or is distinctive of its products, there is no likelihood of confusion

or deception. Thus, the principles of Neon Laboratories (supra) relied upon by the

Plaintif are inapplicable to the present case. The observations in Meghraj Biscuits (supra) and S. Syed Mohideen (supra) were in the case of a distinctive mark. The

Plaintiffs mark "iTerm" is not distinctive and is not capable of adapting to

distinguish the Plaintiffs goods considering the nature of the goods, the class of

customers and the manner of purchase of online insurance policies. In South India

Beverages (supra) the Court had come to the conclusion that the defendant therein

had slavishly copied the mark of the plaintif therein and therefore cannot be

permitted to continue to use the deceptively similar trade mark. Thus the said

judgment is not applicable to the facts of the present case. In the case of Heinz (supra) though the argument that the mark is descriptive was raised, it was not

considered. As I have observed, mere prior user will not entitle the Plaintif to get an

injunction without consideration of material regarding what are the marks, how they

are presented to the public, the quality of the Plaintiffs mark "iTerm", and whether nitin 81/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: taking into consideration all factors, confusion can arise. Mere prior user is not a

determinant factor to reach that conclusion. 17.16 I, therefore hold that the Defendantfs use of its mark 'Aviva i-Term Smartf in

respect of its insurance policies sold over the internet is not likely to cause

misrepresentation or confusion or deception in the minds of consumers and

consequently there is no likelihood of damage to the Plaintif. In short, the

Defendantfs activities do not constitute passing of. 18. There is one more factor which according to me is important in deciding the

present application of the Plaintif which is 'the adoption of the trade mark by the

Defendantf. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that due to the

Plaintiffs extensive use of its trade mark and the reputation and goodwill acquired by

it therein, the Defendant, who operates in the same industry and targets the same

market / customers, ought to have knowledge about the use of the trade mark 'iTermf

by the Plaintif and in any case, cannot feign ignorance of the same. He submitted that

from 2009 till May 2018, no other person / entity used the mark 'iTermf in relation to

insurance products falling in Class 36. He submitted that the Defendant has

deliberately adopted the impugned mark "i-Term Smart" in order to come as close as

possible to and to ride upon the goodwill and reputation generated by the 'iTermf

trade mark range of products; and therefore the Defendantfs adoption of its trade

mark is dishonest. Relying upon this Courtfs decision in Anglo-French Drug & nitin 82/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: Industries Ltd. v. Eisen Pharmaceutical Company Pvt. Ltd38 , the Ld. Senior Advocate

for the Plaintif submitted that if this Court is even prima facie satisfed that the rival

marks are deceptively similar and the adoption of the impugned mark is dishonest, not

granting an injunction would amount to encouraging dishonest parties.

18.1 Now, admittedly, the Plaintif fled an application for the registration of its

trade mark "iTerm" per se only ten days before fling of the above suit against the

Defendant. This, according to me prima facie shows that the Plaintif was itself aware

of the descriptive nature of its trade mark and hence did not make any application

earlier. From a perusal of the material produced by the parties herein, it does not

appear that the Plaintif has asserted any proprietary rights in its mark 'iTermf at any

point prior to the Defendantfs adoption of its mark. I have observed hereinabove that

the Plaintif has been unable to discharge the burden of proving that it has acquired

such goodwill and reputation in the descriptive mark iTerm that the said mark has lost

its primary meaning and acquired a secondary meaning to be exclusively associated

with the Plaintif. Since the Plaintif does not have proprietary rights in the mark

iTerm, the Defendantfs adoption of the same cannot be termed as dishonest. The

judgment in Anglo-French Drug (supra) is not applicable to the present case since the

Court therein had granted injunction as the conduct of the Defendant was found to be

dishonest, which is not the case here. 38 (1998) 1 Arb LR 61 nitin 83/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: 19. In so far as the balance of convenience is concerned, the Ld. Senior Advocate

for the Plaintif submitted that the documents produced by the Plaintif, including the

Chartered Accountantfs Certifcate certifying the sales of 'iTermf marked policies,

clearly establish that the Plaintif has been using the mark iTerm continuously and

extensively from 2009 till date whereas the Defendant has started using the mark only

in May 2018. He submitted that despite the Plaintif specifcally denying the

Defendantfs user of the impugned trade mark, the Defendant has not produced even a

single instance of sale of its policy under the mark 'iTermf. He submitted that

therefore it is clear that the Defendant has not done any business under the mark

'iTermf and therefore will not be harmed if this Court grants an injunction restraining

the Defendant from using the trademark 'iTermf. He submitted that such injunction

will not lead to stoppage of the Defendantfs business since the Defendant has not

commenced business under the impugned trade mark and the Defendant is also doing

business under various other marks. He further submitted that if an injunction is

denied to the Plaintif, the Plaintif will sufer irreparable harm. He submitted that the

balance of convenience is therefore completely in favour of the Plaintif and against

the Defendant. 19.1 The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendant submitted that any order of

interim injunction will result in the Defendant having to cease its business of selling

term policies under the name "Aviva i-Term Smart" and also to notify IRDAI and to nitin 84/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 ::: fle a fresh Application. He submitted that this will in turn afect the Defendant as well

as several customers as the legal status of such already purchased policies will be in

jeopardy. 19.2 In my view, any order of injunction against the Defendant now will result in

severe pecuniary injury and fnancial damage to the large number of customers who

have purchased the Defendantfs Insurance Policy. The Defendant has advertised and

sold its product as allowed by the IRDAI. The Plaintif has not been able to show

misrepresentation or damage to its reputation. The Plaintif has not acquired

proprietary rights, statutory or otherwise in the expression 'iTermf. Before fling the

above suit the Plaintif has never asserted any proprietary rights within its mark iTerm

at any point prior to the Defendantfs adoption of its mark. The Plaintiffs trade mark

applications for 'iTermf per se were made only few days prior to fling of the present

action. The Plaintiffs mark being descriptive of the goods and services provided by

the Plaintif and Defendant, injuncting the Defendant in the absence of the Plaintiffs

exclusive rights therein would be unfair. The Plaintif has failed to make out any prima

facie case in its favour. The balance of convenience is also in favour of the Defendant. 20. For all the above reasons, the Notice of Motion is dismissed. However, there

shall be no order as to costs. (S. J. KATHAWALLA, J.) nitin 85/85 ::: Uploaded on - 19/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 20/08/2019 01:35:59 :::