% 08.02.2024
 CM APPL. 7641/2024 (For Exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to just exceptions. 2. Application is disposed of. W.P.(C) 1826/2024 & CM APPL. 7640/2024 3. The present petition has been filed with prayer for setting aside the
 declaration of the petitioner's account and of its directors, as red flag
 account and/or fraud by the respondent bank and all proceedings or actions
 initiated or taken consequent to such declaration. There is further prayer for
 direction to the respondent no. 1 to ensure that respondent no. 2 does not

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:40
 take any fresh/further action under the Master Directions on Fraud
 Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial
 Institutions dated 01st July, 2016 ("Master Directions on Fraud"), issued by
 the Reserve Bank of India, without providing an opportunity of being heard
 to the petitioner and its directors. 4. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that the
 respondent-bank, without following the Principles of Natural Justice and
 providing any opportunity of hearing to the petitioner, has declared the
 account of the petitioner as 'fraud' under the Master Directions on Fraud. 5. It is further submitted that the respondent-bank did not inform the
 petitioner either about the Forensic Audit Report, nor was any information
 provided to the petitioner or its authorised directors, about the reasons for
 classifying the petitioner's account as 'fraud'. 6. It is further submitted that the petitioner was kept in the dark
 regarding 'fraud' classification for over two years. The petitioner came to
 know about the 'fraud' being reported in its account maintained with the
 respondent-bank only when the petitioner was asked to join the investigation
 pursuant to the registered case i.e. RC No. 2192023E0007 dated 29th March,
 2023. 7. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submits that the aforesaid
 action of the respondent-bank is in clear violation of the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in the case of State Bank of India and Others Versus
 Rajesh Agarwal and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 342. It is submitted that
 the Supreme Court has categorically held that the Principles of Natural
 Justice have to be complied with before declaration of 'fraud' for account of
 any borrower. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:40 8. Mr. Sidhartha Barua, learned counsel appearing on advance notice on
 behalf of respondent no. 2, concedes to the fact that no Show Cause Notice
 was issued to the petitioner. He submits that the declaration of the
 petitioner's account was done much prior to the judgment of the Supreme
 Court in the case of Rajesh Agarwal (supra). He submits that at that point of
 time, the law did not as such require issuance of any notice for declaration of
 the bank account of borrower as 'fraud'. 9. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and having perused the
 record, this Court is of the view that once the Supreme Court has declared in
 the aforesaid case of Rajesh Agarwal (Supra) that Principles of Natural
 Justice have to be followed and Show Cause Notice has to be issued before
 declaration of a person's account as 'fraud', the declaration in the present
 case having been made without following the due process, as aforesaid, has
 to be necessarily set aside. 10. This Court notes that in the case of Rajesh Agarwal (supra), the
 Supreme Court has held in categorical terms that the Principles of Natural
 Justice have to be read into the provisions of the Master Directions on
 Fraud. The Supreme Court has further directed the banks to provide an
 opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying their accounts as
 'Fraud'. Since in the present case, the respondent did not intimate the
 petitioner about the classification of its account with the respondent-bank as
 'Fraud', the present declaration of 'Fraud' by the respondent is clearly in the
 teeth of aforesaid judgment of the Supreme Court and in violation of the
 Principles of Natural Justice. 11. Holding that Principles of Natural Justice have to be followed before
 declaration of a borrower's account as 'fraud', the Supreme Court in the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:41
 judgment of Rajesh Agarwal (Supra), has held as follows:- 80. Audi alteram partem has several facets, including the service of a
 notice to any person against whom a prejudicial order may be passed and
 providing an opportunity to explain the evidence collected. In Tulsiram
 Patel, this Court explained the wide amplitude of audi alteram partem: 81. Audi alteram partem, therefore, entails that an entity against whom
 evidence is collected must: (i) be provided an opportunity to explain the
 evidence against it; (ii) be informed of the proposed action, and (iii) be
 allowed to represent why the proposed action should not be taken. Hence,
 the mere participation of the borrower during the course of the
 preparation of a forensic audit report would not fulfil the requirements of
 natural justice. The decision to classify an account as fraud involves due
 application of mind to the facts and law by the lender banks. The lender
 banks, either individually or through a JLF, have to decide whether a
 borrower has breached the terms and conditions of a loan agreement, and
 based upon such determination the lender banks can seek appropriate
 remedies. Therefore, principles of natural justice demand that the
 borrowers must be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the
 findings in the forensic audit report, and to represent before the account is
 classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds. xxx xxx xxx 85. Fairness in action requires that procedures which permit impairment
 of fundamental rights ought to be just, fair, and reasonable. The principles
 of natural justice have a universal application and constitute an important
 facet of procedural propriety envisaged under Article 14. The rule of audi
 alteram partem is recognised as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article 14. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Tulsiram Patel has
 categorically held that violation of the principles of natural justice is a
 violation of Article 14. The Court held that any State action in breach of
 natural justice implicates a violation of Article 14: (SCC p. 476 , para 95)
 "95. The principles of natural justice have thus come to be
 recognised as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article
 14 because of the new and dynamic interpretation given by this

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:41
 Court to the concept of equality which is the subject-matter of
 that article. Shortly put, the syllogism runs thus : violation of a
 rule of natural justice results in arbitrariness which is the same
 as discrimination; where discrimination is the result of State
 action, it is a violation of Article 14 : therefore, a violation of a
 principle of natural justice by a State action is a violation of Article 14. Article 14 , however, is not the sole repository of the
 principles of natural justice. What it does is to guarantee that
 any law or State action violating them will be struck down. The
 principles of natural justice, however, apply not
 only to legislation and State action but also where any tribunal,
 authority or body of men, not coming within the definition of
 "State" in Article 12 , is charged with the duty of deciding a
 matter. In such a case, the principles of natural justice require
 that it must decide such matter fairly and impartially."
 xxx xxx xxx 95. In light of the legal position noted above, we hold that the rule of audi
 alteram partem ought to be read in Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 of the Master
 Directions on Fraud. Consistent with the principles of natural justice, the
 lender banks should provide an opportunity to a borrower by furnishing a
 copy of the audit reports and allow the borrower a reasonable opportunity
 to submit a representation before classifying the account as fraud. A
 reasoned order has to be issued on the objections addressed by the
 borrower. On perusal of the facts, it is indubitable that the lender banks
 did not provide an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before
 classifying their accounts as fraud. Therefore, the impugned decision to
 classify the borrower account as fraud is vitiated by the failure to observe
 the rule of audi alteram partem. In the present batch of appeals, this Court
 passed an ad interim order restraining the lender banks from taking any
 precipitate action against the borrowers for the time being. In pursuance
 of our aforesaid reasoning, we hold that the decision by the lender banks
 to classify the borrower accounts as fraud, is violative of the principles of
 natural justice. The banks would be at liberty to take fresh steps in
 accordance with this decision. xxx xxx xxx 98. The conclusions are summarised below: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:41
 Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds results in serious civil
 consequences for the borrower. 98.4. Such a debarment under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on
 Frauds is akin to blacklisting the borrowers for being untrustworthy and
 unworthy of credit by banks. This Court has consistently held that an
 opportunity of hearing ought to be provided before a person is blacklisted.
 98.5. The application of audi alteram partem cannot be impliedly excluded
 under the Master Directions on Frauds. In view of the timeframe
 contemplated under the Master Directions on Frauds as well as the nature
 of the procedure adopted, it is reasonably practicable for the lender banks
 to provide an opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers before classifying
 their account as fraud. 98.6. The principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers must be
 served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the conclusions of the
 forensic audit report, and be allowed to represent by the banks/JLF before
 their account is classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds.
 In addition, the decision classifying the borrower's account as fraudulent
 must be made by a reasoned order. 98.7. Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide an
 opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying their account as
 fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into the provisions of the
 directions to save them from the vice of arbitrariness.
 xxx xxx xxx " 13. Accordingly, the present petition is allowed and the declaration of
 petitioner's account as 'fraud' is hereby set aside. However, liberty is
 granted to the respondent bank to initiate fresh proceedings against the
 petitioner in accordance with law, as laid down by the Supreme Court in the
 case of Rajesh Agarwal (supra). 14. Needless to state, any criminal proceedings against the petitioner shall
 continue and the present order shall have no bearing on the said proceedings. 15. With the aforesaid directions, the present petition is disposed of, along
 with the pending applications. MINI PUSHKARNA, J
 FEBRUARY 8, 2024
 c

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/02/2024 at 22:25:41