Leave granted. The appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna Birani, had entered

 into an oral agreement to sell Roti Godown No. 28/27, Birhana Road,

 Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, to respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, for a

 consideration of ₹1,35,00,000/- (Rupees one crore thirty five lakhs

 only) in June, 2020. Respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, and her husband claimed that

 they had paid an amount of ₹19,00,000/- (Rupees nineteen lakhs only)

 towards part-sale consideration between June and September, 2020. It is the case of the appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna

 Birani, that respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, had to pay 25 per cent

 of the total sale consideration amount as advance on or before

 15.09.2020. However, she was unable to pay the same. In fact, a

 cheque of ₹10,00,000/- (Rupees ten lakhs only) given by respondent Signature Not Verified No.2, Shilpi Gupta, bounced due to insufficient funds. The Digitally signed by Deepak Guglani Date: 2025.04.19 16:20:09 IST Reason: appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna Birani, relied upon some 1 WhatsApp messages and other communications inter se them and

respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, and her husband, whereby the latter

was asked to pay the unpaid amount and complete the sale transaction

by execution of a registered document. This was not done. After about one year, on 03.09.2021, the appellants, Rikhab

Birani and Sadhna Birani, sold the aforesaid property by way of

registered sale deed dated 03.09.2021 at the lower price of

₹90,00,000/- (Rupees ninety lakhs only) statedly due to changed

circumstances. It is the case of the appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna

Birani, that they had suffered losses of ₹45,00,000/- (Rupees forty

five lakhs only) on account of the failure of respondent No. 2,

Shilpi Gupta, and her husband, in paying the sale consideration amount

and abiding by the oral agreement; hence, they are not liable to

refund or pay any amount to respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta. It is the accepted position that neither the appellants, Rikhab

Birani and Sadhna Birani, nor respondent No. 2, Shilpi Gupta,

initiated any civil proceedings. On the other hand, respondent No.2,

Shilpi Gupta, approached the Court of the Metropolitan Magistrate,

Kanpur Nagar, for registration of a First Information Report1 by

taking recourse to the provisions of Section 156(3) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973.2 However, by the detailed and reasoned order

dated 26.04.2022, the Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar,

dismissed the application3 under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C.,

1 For short, “FIR”. 2 For short, “ Cr.P.C .”. 2 holding that this is a civil matter and no criminal offence is made

out. Respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, thereupon filed another criminal

complaint4 on 14.06.2022 before the Court of the Metropolitan

Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar. The Metropolitan Magistrate had, thereupon,

called the Station House Officer of the Police Station – Harbans

Mohal, District - Kanpur Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, to submit a report

under Section 202 of the Cr.P.C. After receiving the report, the

Metropolitan Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar, vide judgment dated

14.07.2023, dismissed the criminal complaint, holding that the matter

is of civil nature. Notwithstanding the two orders passed by the Metropolitan

Magistrate, referred to above, respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta,

directly approached the Police Station – Harbans Mohal, District –

Kanpur Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, and registered FIR No. 78/2023 dated

22.07.2023 for the offence(s) punishable under Sections 420 , 406 , 354 , 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.5

 Aggrieved thereby and apprehending their arrest, the

appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna Birani, filed an application

for grant of anticipatory bail, which was granted to them till the

filing of the chargesheet. The investigating officer, on 12.09.2023, filed a chargesheet

in the aforesaid FIR No.78/2023. We shall subsequently refer to the

contents of the chargesheet. On the aforesaid chargesheet being filed, the Metropolitan 4 Complaint Case No. 90180/2022. 5 For short, “ IPC ”. 3 Magistrate, Kanpur Nagar, notwithstanding the two earlier orders,

passed on the same allegations, dismissing the criminal complaints

of respondent No.2, Shilpi Gupta, passed order dated 17.01.2024

taking cognizance and summoning the appellants, Rikhab Birani and

Sadhna Birani. Thereupon, the appellants, Rikhab Birani and Sadhna Birani,

preferred a petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. before the High

Court,6 which was dismissed by the High Court, vide the impugned

order dated 09.05.2024, notwithstanding the aforesaid facts, stating

that at that stage, only a prima facie case was to be seen in the

light of the law laid down by this Court. We are constrained to pass this detailed speaking order, as it

is noticed that, notwithstanding the law clearly laid down by this

Court on the difference between a breach of contract and the criminal

offence of cheating, we are continuously flooded with cases where

the police register an FIR, conduct investigation and even file

chargesheet(s) in undeserving cases. During the last couple of months, a number of judgments/orders

have been pronounced by this Court, especially in cases arising from

the State of Uttar Pradesh, deprecating the stance of the police as

well as the courts in failing to distinguish between a civil wrong

in the form of a breach of contract, non-payment of money or disregard

to and violation of contractual terms; and a criminal offence under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC, the ingredients of which are quite

different and requires mens rea at the time when the contract is 6 A482 No. 7415/2024. 4 entered into itself to not abide by the terms thereof. In Lalit Chaturvedi and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and

Another,7 this Court quoted an earlier decision in Mohammed Ibrahim

and Others v. State of Bihar and Another,8 wherein, referring to Section 420 of the IPC, it was observed that the offence under the

said Section requires the following ingredients to be satisfied: not hesitate to exercise its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. Section 482 of
 the Cr.P.C. saves the inherent power of the High
 Court, as it serves a salutary purpose viz. a
 person should not undergo harassment of litigation
 for a number of years, when no criminal offence is
 made out. It is one thing to say that a case has
 been made out for trial and criminal proceedings
 should not be quashed, but another thing to say
 that a person must undergo a criminal trial despite
 the fact that no offence has been made out in the
 complaint. This Court in V.Y. Jose (supra) placed
 reliance on several earlier decisions in “Hira Lal
 Hari Lal Bhagwati v. CBI” , “Indian Oil
 Corporation v. NEPC India Ltd.” , “Vir Prakash
 Sharma v. Anil Kumar Agarwal” and “All Cargo Movers
 (I) (P) Ltd. v. Dhanesh Badarmal Jain”.”

 This Court, in Delhi Race Club (1940) Limited and Others v.

State of Uttar Pradesh and Another,10 highlighted the fine distinction

between the offences of criminal breach of trust and cheating,

observing that the two are antithetical in nature and cannot coexist

simultaneously. Police officers and courts must carefully apply their

minds to determine whether the allegations genuinely constitute the

specific offence alleged. In Kunti and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another,11 this Court referred to Sarabjit Kaur v. State of Punjab and Another12 wherein it was observed that a breach of contract does not give rise

to criminal prosecution for cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest

intention is shown right at the beginning of the transaction. Merely

on the allegation of failure to keep a promise will not be enough to

initiate criminal proceedings. Thus, the dishonest intention on the

part of the party who is alleged to have committed the offence of

10 (2024) 10 SCC 690. 11 (2023) 6 SCC 109. 12 (2023) 5 SCC 360. 6 cheating should be established at the time of entering into the

transaction with the complainant, otherwise the offence of cheating

is not established or made out. It is the duty and obligation of the court to exercise a great

deal of caution in issuing process, particularly when the matter is

essentially of civil nature.13 The prevalent impression that civil

remedies, being time-consuming, do not adequately protect the

interests of creditors or lenders should be discouraged and rejected

as criminal procedure cannot be used to apply pressure.14 Failure to

do so results in the breakdown of the rule of law and amounts to

misuse and abuse of the legal process. In yet another case, again arising from criminal proceedings

initiated in the State of Uttar Pradesh,15 this Court was constrained

to note recurring cases being encountered wherein parties repeatedly

attempted to invoke the jurisdiction of criminal courts by filing

vexatious complaints, camouflaging allegations that are ex facie

outrageous or are pure civil claims. These attempts must not be

entertained and should be dismissed at the threshold. Reference was

made to a judgment of this Court in Thermax Limited and Others v.

K.M. Johny and Others,16 which held that courts should be watchful of

the difference between civil and criminal wrongs, though there can

be situations where the allegation may constitute both civil and

criminal wrongs. Further, there has to be a conscious application of

13 G. Sagar Suri and Another v. State of U.P. and Others , (2000) 2 SCC 636. 14 Vijay Kumar Ghai and Others v. State of West Bengal and Others , (2022) 7
 SCC 124. 15 Deepak Gaba and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another , (2023) 3 SCC 423.
16 (2011) 13 SCC 412. 7 mind on these aspects by the Magistrate, as a summoning order has

grave consequences of setting criminal proceedings in motion. Though

the Magistrate is not required to record detailed reasons, there

should be adequate evidence on record to set criminal proceedings

into motion. The Magistrate should carefully scrutinize the evidence

on record and may even put questions to the complainant/investigating

officer etc. to elicit answers to find out the truth about the

allegations. The summoning order has to be passed when the complaint

or chargesheet discloses an offence and when there is material that

supports and constitutes essential ingredients of the offence. The

summoning order should not be passed lightly or as a matter of course. Lastly, we would refer to another detailed judgment of this

Court in Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and

Another,17 which draws out the ingredients required to establish an

offence under Sections 406 , 415 , 420 , 503 and 506 of the IPC in the

following terms: “36. An offence under Section 406 of
 the IPC requires entrustment, which carries the
 implication that a person handing over any property
 or on whose behalf the property is handed over,
 continues to be the owner of the said property.
 Further, the person handing over the property must
 have confidence in the person taking the property
 to create a fiduciary relationship between them. A
 normal transaction of sale or exchange of
 money/consideration does not amount to entrustment.
 Clearly, the charge/offence of Section 406 IPC is
 not even remotely made out. 37. The chargesheet states that the offence under Section 420 is not made out. The offence of cheating
 under Section 415 of the IPC requires dishonest
 inducement, delivering of a property as a result of
 the inducement, and damage or harm to the person so

17 2024 SCC OnLine SC 726. 8 induced. The offence of cheating is established
when the dishonest intention exists at the time
when the contract or agreement is entered, for the
essential ingredient of the offence of cheating
consists of fraudulent or dishonest inducement of
a person by deceiving him to deliver any property,
to do or omit to do anything which he would not do
or omit if he had not been deceived. As per the
investigating officer, no fraudulent and dishonest
inducement is made out or established at the time
when the agreement was entered. 38. An offence of criminal intimidation arises when
the accused intendeds to cause alarm to the victim,
though it does not matter whether the victim is
alarmed or not. The intention of the accused to
cause alarm must be established by bringing
evidence on record. The word ‘intimidate’ means to
make timid or fearful, especially : to compel or
deter by or as if by threats. The threat
communicated or uttered by the person named in the
chargesheet as an accused, should be uttered and
communicated by the said person to threaten the
victim for the purpose of influencing her mind. The
word ‘threat’ refers to the intent to inflict
punishment, loss or pain on the other. Injury
involves doing an illegal act. 39. This Court in Manik Taneja v. State of
Karnataka , had referred to Section 506 which
prescribes punishment for the offence of ‘criminal
intimidation’ as defined in Section 503 of the IPC,
to observe that the offence under Section 503 requires that there must be an act of threating
another person with causing an injury to his person,
reputation or property, or to the person or
reputation of any one in whom that person is
interested. This threat must be with the intent to
cause alarm to the person threatened or to do any
act which he is not legally bound to do, or omit to
do an act which he is entitled to do. Mere
expression of any words without any intent to cause
alarm would not be sufficient to bring home an
offence under Section 506 of the IPC. The material
and evidence must be placed on record to show that
the threat was made with an intent to cause alarm
to the complainant, or to cause them to do, or omit
to do an act. Considering the statutory mandate,
offence under Section 506 is not shown even if we
accept the allegation as correct.” 9 Significantly, this Court in Sharif Ahmed (supra) cautioned

courts to check such attempts of making out a criminal case on the

basis of vague and ex facie false assertions. Further, Sharif Ahmed (supra) exposits the legal position

relating to the ingredients and contents of a chargesheet, drawing

upon several earlier judgments of this Court which elucidate the

contents of a police report under Section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C. It

also clarifies the course of action to be adopted by the Magistrate

when the chargesheet is found to be incomplete or vague in content.

In this context, reference may be made to Sections 190 and 204 of

the Cr.P.C., as well as Sections 211 to 213 and 218 of the Cr.P.C.,

which collectively govern the framing and contents of a charge. Some

of the portions of this judgment are reproduced below: While deciding whether summons is to be issued to
a person, the Magistrate can take into
consideration any prima facie improbabilities
arising in the case. The parameters on which a
summoning order can be interfered with are well
settled by the decision of this court in Bhushan
Kumar (supra). The Magistrate in terms of Section
204 of the Code is required to exercise his judicial 11 discretion with a degree of caution, even when he
is not required to record reasons, on whether there
is sufficient ground for proceeding. Proceedings
initiated by a criminal court are generally not
interfered with by High Courts, unless necessary to
secure the ends of justice. XX XX XX 19. Sections 211 to 213 and Section 218 of the Code
deal with the contents of the charge. The object
and purpose of these provisions is to bring the
nature of allegations against the accused to his
notice. These allegations have to be proved and
established by leading evidence. The accused should
not be taken by surprise or be unbeknownst so as to
cause prejudice to him. The provisions of the Code
also prescribe how to interpret the words used in
the charge in terms of Section 214 of the Code, the
effect of defects in the charge in terms of Section
215 of the Code, the power of the court to alter
the charge and recall of the witnesses when a charge
is altered in terms of Sections 216 and 217 of the
Code. 20. There is an inherent connect between the
chargesheet submitted under Section 173(2) of the
Code, cognisance which is taken under Section 190 of the Code, issue of process and summoning of the
accused under Section 204 of the Code, and thereupon
issue of notice under Section 251 of the Code, or
the charge in terms of Chapter XVII of the Code.
The details set out in the chargesheet have a
substantial impact on the efficacy of procedure at
the subsequent stages. The chargesheet is integral
to the process of taking cognisance, the issue of
notice and framing of charge, being the only
investigative document and evidence available to
the court till that stage. Substantiated reasons
and grounds for an offence being made in the
chargesheet are a key resource for a Magistrate to
evaluate whether there are sufficient grounds for
taking cognisance, initiating proceedings, and then
issuing notice, framing charges etc.

XX XX XX 26. The object and purpose of the police
investigation is manyfold. It includes the need to
ensure transparent and free investigation to
ascertain the facts, examine whether or not an
offence is committed, identify the offender if an
offence is committed, and to lay before the court 12 the evidence which has been collected, the truth
 and correctness of which is thereupon decided by
 the court. 27. In H.N. Rishbud and Inder Singh v. State of
 Delhi21 , this Court notes that the process of
 investigation generally consists of : 1) proceeding
 to the concerned spot, 2) ascertainment of facts
 and circumstances, 3) discovery and arrest, 4)
 collection of evidence which includes examination
 of various persons, search of places and seizure of
 things, and 5) formation of an opinion on whether
 an offence is made out, and filing the chargesheet
 accordingly. The formation of opinion is therefore
 the culmination of several stages that an
 investigation goes through. This Court in its
 decision in Abhinandan Jha v. Dinesh Mishra22 states that the submission of the chargesheet or
 the final report is dependent on the nature of
 opinion formed, which is the final step in the
 investigation. 28. The final report has to be prepared with these
 aspects in mind and should show with sufficient
 particularity and clarity, the contravention of the
 law which is alleged. When the report complies with
 the said requirements, the court concerned should
 apply its mind whether or not to take cognisance
 and also proceed by issuing summons to the accused.
 While doing so, the court will take into account
 the statement of witnesses recorded under Section
 161 of the Code and the documents placed on record
 by the investigating officer. 29. In case of any doubts or ambiguity arising in
 ascertaining the facts and evidence, the Magistrate
 can, before taking cognisance, call upon the
 investigating officer to clarify and give better
 particulars, order further investigation, or even
 record statements in terms of Section 202 of the
 Code. XX XX XX”

 The chargesheet in the present case is bereft of particulars

and details required and mandated in terms of Section 173(2) of the

Cr.P.C. It merely reproduces the contents of the FIR which makes

reference to the payments made as well as the allegation that in the 13 revenue records, the godown in question was recorded in the name of

Rakesh Birani, the son of the appellant, Rikhab Birani. It is noted

that the appellant, Rikhab Birani, informed the complainant that

Rakesh Birani had expired. The complainant had then requested refund

of money, etc. However, the FIR does not state the material and

evidence available and collected during the course of the

investigation to establish the offences under Sections 420 , 406 , 354 , 504 and 506 of the IPC. Clearly, the ingredients of the aforesaid

are not established and made out. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we set aside the impugned

judgment/order and allow the present appeal quashing the FIR and the

resultant proceedings, including the chargesheet. We clarify that the present appeal only deals with the question

of criminal offence. We have not commented or made any observations

on the civil rights of complainant-respondent No.2. We are also constrained to impose costs of ₹50,000/- (Rupees

fifty thousand only) on the State of Uttar Pradesh as, in spite of

repeated judgments/orders of this Court, we are being flooded with

cases of civil wrongs being made the subject matter of criminal

proceedings by filing chargesheets, etc.

 These costs will be paid by the State of Uttar Pradesh within

a period of six weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this

order. It will be open to the State of Uttar Pradesh to conduct

internal enquiries and collect this amount from the delinquent and

responsible officers. Registry is directed to communicate a copy of

this order to the Chief Secretary of the State of Uttar Pradesh who

shall be responsible for ensuring the payment of costs. 14 We would have imposed costs on the complainant-respondent No.2

also but are refraining from doing so on account of the possibility

that she was persuaded and guided by wrong legal advice. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. ................CJI. (SANJIV KHANNA)

 ..................J.
 (SANJAY KUMAR)
NEW DELHI; APRIL 16, 2025. 15