CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 1865 of
1967. Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment & Decree dated the
19th October,	1965 of the Patna High	 Court	in Original
Decree No311 of 1960. O. P. Malhotra and D. N. Mishra, for the appellant.
D. N. Mukherjee and N. R. Chaudhury, for respondent Nos. 1,
3, & 5. S. N. Prasad, for respondent Nos. 3 & 4. D. P.	Singh,	S. C. Aggarwala, V. J.	Francis	 and S. S.
Bhatnagar,for the intervener. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
ALAGIRISWAMI, J.-This appeal is against the judgment of	 the
Patna High Court by Special Leave granted by this Court. It
arises	out of a mining lease granted by the 1st respondent
but alleged to have been ,done so in the name of the	 1st
respondent by	the 2nd respondent in favour of Haricharan
Singh J.D. & Co. on 7-9-1950.	In pursuance of the lease a
sum of	 Rs. 80,000/- was paid to the 1st respondent.	 The
plaint allegation was that the 1st respondent was a Limited
Company created by the 2nd respondent.	There was an earlier
lease in respect of	the same property in	 favour	 of
respondents 3 and 4 which expired on 4-4-1950.	 Haricharan
Singh J.D. & Co. later changed its name to Kuju Collieries
Ltd. who are the appellants. As the plaintiff did not	 get
the possession of the leased property it instituted a	suit
for recovery of possession of the leased property along with
mesne profits and in the alternative for refund of the	 sum
of Rs. 80,000/- and certain other sums.	 The present appeal
is, however, concerned only with that amount.
In the suit the 1st respondent and the 2nd respondent	took
the stand that the 1st respondent was not created by the 2nd
respondent, that the lease was by the 1st respondent and the
amount	was paid to the 1st respondent alone and not to	 the
2nd respondent.	 The 1st respondent also contended that	 the
leased	properties were handed over to the plaintiff,	that
they were not aware that respondents 3 and 4 were resisting
the plaintiff's claim and that the 1st respondent was not in
any case responsible	therefor and that therefore	 the
plaintiff was	not entitled to any relief.	 During	 the
pendency of this appeal respondents 2 and 3 died and their
legal representatives have not been brought on record.	 The
appellant is not claiming any relief against	any of	 the
other respondents except respondent	No. 1	and it	 is,
therefore, unnecessary	 to refer to the attitude taken by
them in the :suit. It is	necessary at this stage to mention that after	 the
institution of the suit the Bihar Land Reforms Act came into
force as a result of which any lessee working a mine became
direct lessee under the State, and ,as the plaintiff was not
working the mines any claim in respect of the possession of
the mines became unenforceable. The appellant	has,
therefore, confined his claim to the sum of Rs. 80,000/- as
payable to it by the 1st respondent. The Trial Court held that as the pailntiff was	 already in
the business of mining and had the advantage of consulting
its lawyers and solicitors and their lease deed was drawn up
and prepared by solicitors, there was no occasion for	 the
plaintiff to have been under 705 any kind of ignorance of law and as the Mineral Concession
Rules of 1949 rendered any stipulation for payment of salami
illegal	 and the lease on that basis was also illegal,	 the
plaintiff was not entitled to claim relief under s. 65 of
the Indian Contract Act. It, therefore, dismissed the suit.
On appeal the High Court also held that neither s. 65 nor s.
72 of the Contract Act applied to the facts of the case.
We are	 of the view that s. 65 of the Contract	 Act cannot
help the plaintiff on the facts and circumstances of	this
case. Section 65 . reads as follows : The section makes a distinction between an agreement and a
contract. According to s. 2 of the Contract Act an
agreement which is enforceable by law is a contract and an
agreement which is not enforceable by law is	said to be
void.	Therefore, when the earlier part of	the section
speaks of an agreement being discovered to be void it means
that the agreement is not enforceable and is, therefore, not
a contract. It means that it was void.	 It may- be that the
parties or one of the parties to the agreement may not have,
when they entered into the	agreement, known that	 the
agreement was in law not enforceable. They might have	come
to know later that the agreement was not enforceable.	 The
second	part of the section refers to a contract becoming
void.	That refers to a case where an agreement which	 was
originally enforceable	 and was, therefore, a contract,.
becomes	 void due to subsequent happenings. In	 both these
cases any person who has received any advantage under	such
agreement or contract is bound to restore such advantage, or
to make compensation	for it to the person from whom he
received it. But where even at the time when the agreement
is entered into both the parties knew that it was not lawful
and, therefore, void, there was no contract but only an
agreement and it is not a case where it is discovered to be
void subsequently. Nor is it a case Of the contract
becoming void due to subsequent happenings. Therefore, s.
65 of the Contract Act did not apply. The Privy Council in its decision in Harnath Kaur v. Inder
Bahadur Singh (1923, 50 f. A. 69, 75-76) observed: This specific	provision made by	 the
	 legislature cannot be taken advantage of in
	 derogation of the principle that s.	 65 Contract Act in applicable where the object of
	 the agreement was illegal to the knowledge of
	 both the parties at the time it was made.	 In
	 such a case the agreement would be void	 ab-
	 initio and there would be no room for	 the
	 subsequent discovery of that fact,,. We consider that this criticism as well as the view taken by
the Bench is justified.	 It has rightly pointed out that if
both the transferor and transferee are in pari delicto	 the
courts do not assist them. A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in	 its
decision in Sivaramakrisnaiah v. Narahari Rao (AIR 1960 AP
186 held that
	 "In order to invoke section 65 the invalidity
	 of the	 contractor agreement	 should	 be
	 discovered subsequent to the making of	 it.
	 This cannot be taken advantage of by parties
	 who knew	 from the beginning the illegality
	 thereof.	It only applies to a case where	 one
	 of the parties enters into an agreement under
	 the belief that it was a legal agreement, i.e.
	 without the knowledge that the agreement is
	 forbidden by law proposed to public policy and
	 as such illegal.	The effect of section 65 is
	 that in such a situation, it enables a person
	 not in pari delicto to claim restoration since
	 it is not based on an illegal contract	 but
	 dissociated from it. That is permissible by
	 reason of the section because the action is
	 not founded on dealings which are contaminated
	 by illegality. The party is only seeking to
	 be restored to the status quo ante. Section
	 65 also	does net recognise the	 distinction
	 between a contract being illegal by reason of
	 its being opposed to public policy or morality
	 or a contract void for other reasons.	Even
	 agreement the performance of which is attended
	 with penal consequences, are not outside	 the
	 scope of section 65 . At the same time Courts
	 will not	 render assistance to	persons	 who
	 induce innocent	 parties to	enter	into
	 contracts	 of that nature by playing fraud on
	 them to retain the benefit which they obtained
	 by their wrong". They also referred with approval to	 the
	 earlier decision of the Hyderabad High Court
	 in Budhulal v.	 Deccan	 Banking Co.	Ltd. (supra). In a recent judgment of this Court in Shri Ramagya Prasad
Gupta & Ors v. Shri Murli Prasad & Ors. (C.A. Nos . 1710 of
1967 & 1986 of 1968 decided on 11-4-1974). to which one of
us was	 a party, this Court	 quoted	 with approval	 the
observations of the Full Bench of the Hyderabad High Court
in Budhulal v. Deccan Banking Company (supra). These
decisions are in accordance with the view we have taken.
The Mineral Concession Rules came into force on	 25-10-1949.
As the lease came into force on September 7, 1950 and money
was paid on that date, the fact that there was	 an earlier
unregistered contract does not make any difference to	 the
question at issue. Section 4 of the	Mines and Minerals
(Regulation and Development) Act. 1948 provides "no mining"