SANJIV KHANNA, J. This judgment would decide the afore-captioned appeals

 preferred by the Central Public Information Officer (‘CPIO’ for

 short), Supreme Court of India (appellant in Civil Appeal Nos.

 10044 and 10045 of 2010), and Secretary General, Supreme Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2019.11.13 Court of India (appellant in Civil Appeal No. 2683 of 2010), against 18:38:18 IST Reason: the common respondent – Subhash Chandra Agarwal, and seeks Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 1 of 108 to answer the question as to ‘how transparent is transparent

 enough’1 under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (‘ RTI Act ’ for

 short) in the context of collegium system for appointment and

 elevation of judges to the Supreme Court and the High Courts;

 declaration of assets by judges, etc. 2. Civil Appeal No. 10045 of 2010 titled Central Public Information

 Officer, Supreme Court of India v. Subhash Chandra Agarwal arises from an application moved by Subhash Chandra Agarwal

 before the CPIO, Supreme Court of India on 6th July, 2009 to

 furnish a copy of the complete correspondence with the then Chief

 Justice of India as the Times of India had reported that a Union

 Minister had approached, through a lawyer, Mr. Justice R.

 Reghupathi of the High Court of Madras to influence his judicial

 decisions. The information was denied by the CPIO, Supreme

 Court of India on the ground that the information sought by the

 applicant-respondent was not handled and dealt with by the

 Registry of the Supreme Court of India and the information

 relating thereto was neither maintained nor available with the

 Registry. First appeal filed by Subhash Chandra Aggarwal was

1 Heading of an article written by Alberto Alemanno: “How Transparent is Transparent Enough?
 Balancing Access to Information Against Privacy in European Judicial Selection” reproduced in
 Michal Bobek (ed.) Selecting Europe’s Judges: A Critical Review of the Appointment Procedures to
 the European Courts (Oxford University Press 2015). Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 2 of 108 dismissed by the appellate authority vide order dated 05th

 September, 2009. On further appeal, the Central Information

 Commission (‘CIC’ for short) vide order dated 24th November,

 2009 has directed disclosure of information observing that

 disclosure would not infringe upon the constitutional status of the

 judges. Aggrieved, the CPIO, Supreme Court of India has

 preferred this appeal. 3. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 arises from an application dated

 23rd January, 2009 moved by Subhash Chandra Agarwal before

 the CPIO, Supreme Court of India to furnish a copy of complete

 file/papers as available with the Supreme Court of India inclusive

 of copies of complete correspondence exchanged between the

 concerned constitutional authorities with file notings relating to the

 appointment of Mr. Justice H.L. Dattu, Mr. Justice A.K. Ganguly

 and Mr. Justice R.M. Lodha superseding seniority of Mr. Justice A.

 P. Shah, Mr. Justice A.K. Patnaik and Mr. Justice V.K. Gupta,

 which was allegedly objected to by the Prime Minister. The CPIO

 vide order dated 25th February, 2009 had denied this information

 observing that the Registry did not deal with the matters pertaining

 to the appointment of the judges to the Supreme Court of India.

 Appointment of judges to the Supreme Court and the High Courts

 are made by the President of India as per the procedure Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 3 of 108 prescribed by law and the matters relating thereto were not dealt

 with and handled by the Registry of the Supreme Court. The

 information was neither maintained nor available with the Registry.

 First appeal preferred by Subhash Chandra Agarwal was rejected

 vide order dated 25th March, 2009 by the appellate authority. On

 further appeal, the CIC has accepted the appeal and directed

 furnishing of information by relying on the judgment dated 02nd

 September, 2009 of the Delhi High Court in Writ Petition (Civil)

 No. 288 of 2009 titled Central Public Information Officer,

 Supreme Court of India v. Subhash Chandra Agarwal &

 Another . The CIC has also relied on the decision of this Court in S.P. Gupta v. Union of India & Others2 to reach its conclusion.

 Aggrieved, the CPIO, Supreme Court of India has preferred the

 present appeal stating, inter alia, that the judgment in Writ Petition

 (Civil) No. 288 of 2009 was upheld by the Full Bench of the Delhi

 High Court in LPA No. 501 of 2009 vide judgment dated 12th

 January, 2010, which judgment is the subject matter of appeal

 before this Court in Civil Appeal No.2683 of 2010. 4. Civil Appeal No. 2683 of 2010 arises from an application dated

 10th November, 2007 moved by Subhash Chandra Agarwal

2 (1981) Supp SCC 87 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 4 of 108 seeking information on declaration of assets made by the judges

 to the Chief Justices in the States, which application was

 dismissed by the CPIO, Supreme Court of India vide order/letter

 dated 30th November, 2007 stating that information relating to

 declaration of assets of the judges of the Supreme Court of India

 and the High Courts was not held by or was not under control of

 the Registry of the Supreme Court of India. On the first appeal, the

 appellate authority had passed an order of remit directing the

 CPIO, Supreme Court of India to follow the procedure under Section 6(3) of the RTI Act and to inform Subhash Chandra

 Agarwal about the authority holding such information as was

 sought. The CPIO had thereafter vide order dated 07th February,

 2008 held that the applicant should approach the CPIO of the

 High Courts and filing of the application before the CPIO of the

 Supreme Court was against the spirit of Section 6(3) of the RTI

 Act. Thereupon, Subhash Chandra Agarwal had directly preferred

 an appeal before the CIC, without filing the first appeal, which

 appeal was allowed vide order dated 06th January, 2009 directing: Re Point No. 4: If such asset declarations are
 “information” does the CJI hold them in a “fiduciary”
 capacity, and are they therefore, exempt from
 disclosure under the Act

 Answer: The petitioners' argument about the CJI
 holding asset declarations in a fiduciary capacity,
 (which would be breached if it is directed to be
 disclosed, in the manner sought by the applicant) is
 insubstantial. The CJI does not hold such declarations
 in a fiduciary capacity or relationship. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 6 of 108 Re Point No. 5: Whether such information is exempt
 from disclosure by reason of Section 8(1)(j) of the Act.
 Answer: It is held that the contents of asset
 declarations, pursuant to the 1997 resolution—and the
 1999 Conference resolution—are entitled to be treated
 as personal information, and may be accessed in
 accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 8(1)(j) ; they are not otherwise subject to
 disclosure. As far as the information sought by the
 applicant in this case is concerned, (i.e. whether the
 declarations were made pursuant to the 1997
 resolution) the procedure under Section 8(1)(j) is
 inapplicable. Re Point No. (6): Whether the lack of clarity about the
 details of asset declaration and about their details, as
 well as lack of security renders asset declarations and
 their disclosure, unworkable. Answer: These are not insurmountable obstacles; the
 CJI, if he deems it appropriate, may in consultation with
 the Supreme Court Judges, evolve uniform standards,
 devising the nature of information, relevant formats,
 and if required, the periodicity of the declarations to be
 made. The forms evolved, as well as the procedures
 followed in the United States—including the redaction
 norms—under the Ethics in Government Act, 1978,
 reports of the US Judicial Conference, as well as the
 Judicial Disclosure Responsibility Act, 2007, which
 amends the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to: (1)
 restrict disclosure of personal information about family
 members of Judges whose revelation might endanger
 them; and (2) extend the authority of the Judicial
 Conference to redact certain personal information of
 judges from financial disclosure reports may be
 considered.” 6. On further appeal by the CPIO, Supreme Court of India, LPA No.

 501 of 2009 was referred to the Full Bench, which has vide its

 decision dated 12th January, 2010 dismissed the appeal. This Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 7 of 108 judgment records that the parties were ad-idem with regard to

 point Nos. 1 and 2 as the CPIO, Supreme Court of India had fairly

 conceded and accepted the conclusions arrived at by the learned

 Single Judge and, thus, need not be disturbed. Nevertheless, the

 Full Bench had felt it appropriate to observe that they were in full

 agreement with the reasoning given by the learned Single Judge.

 The expression ‘public authority’ as used in the RTI Act is of wide

 amplitude and includes an authority created by or under the

 Constitution of India, which description holds good for the Chief

 Justice of India. While the Chief Justice of India is designated as

 one of the competent authorities under Section 2(e) of the RTI

 Act, the Chief Justice of India besides discharging his role as

 ‘head of the judiciary’ also performs a multitude of tasks assigned

 to him under the Constitution and various other enactments. In the

 absence of any indication that the office of the Chief Justice of

 India is a separate establishment with its own CPIO, it cannot be

 canvassed that “the office of the CPIO of the Supreme Court is

 different from the office of the CJI” (that is, the Chief Justice of

 India). Further, neither side had made any submissions on the

 issue of ‘unworkability’ on account of ‘lack of clarity’ or ‘lack of

 security’ vis-à-vis asset declarations by the judges. The Full Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 8 of 108 Bench had, thereafter, re-casted the remaining three questions as

 under: capacity, within the meaning of the expression used in Section 8(1)(e) of the Act? (3) Whether the information about the declaration of
 assets by the Judges of the Supreme Court is exempt
 from disclosure under the provisions of Section 8(1)(j) of the Act?”

 The above questions were answered in favour of the

 respondent-Subhash Chandra Aggarwal as the Full Bench has

 held that the respondent had the right to information under Section

 2(j) of the RTI Act with regard to the information in the form of

 declarations of assets made pursuant to the 1997 Resolution. The

 Chief Justice did not hold such declarations in a fiduciary capacity

 or relationship and, therefore, the information was not exempt

 under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act. Addressing the third

 question, the Bench had observed: Jai Ram5 and Dollfus Mieg et Compagnie S.A. v. Bank of

 England6. Information sought when exempt under Section 8 of the

 RTI Act cannot be disclosed. Information on assets relates to

 personal information, the disclosure of which has no bearing on

 any public activity or interest and is, therefore, exempt under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. Similarly, information of prospective

 candidates who are considered for judicial appointments and/or

 elevation relates to their personal information, the disclosure of

 which would cause unwarranted invasion of an individual’s privacy

 and serves no larger public interest. Further, the information on

 assets is voluntarily declared by the judges to the Chief Justice of

 India in his fiduciary capacity as the pater familias of the judiciary.

 Consultations and correspondence between the office of the Chief

 Justice of India and other constitutional functionaries are made on

3 33 Cal.2d 502
4 1969 (2) SCC 481
5 1973 (1) SCC 527
6 (1950) 2 All E.R. 611 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 12 of 108 the basis of trust and confidence which ascribes the attributes of a

 fiduciary to the office of the Chief Justice. Information relating to

 the appointment of judges is shared among other constitutional

 functionaries in their fiduciary capacities, which makes the

 information exempt under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act. The

 respondent, on the other hand, has by relying on the dicta in State

 of U.P. v. Raj Narain and Others7 and S. P. Gupta (supra)

 argued that disclosure of the information sought does not

 undermine the independence of the judiciary. Openness and

 transparency in functioning would better secure the independence

 of the judiciary by placing any attempt made to influence or

 compromise the independence of the judiciary in the public

 domain. Further, the citizens have a legitimate and constitutional

 right to seek information about the details of any such attempt.

 Thus, disclosure, and not secrecy, enhances the independence of

 the judiciary. No legitimate concerns exist which may inhibit

 consultees from freely expressing themselves or which might

 expose candidates to spurious allegations by disclosing the

 consultative process for appointing judges. Given the nature of the

 information sought, disclosure of the information will serve the

 larger public interest and, therefore, such interest outweighs the

7 (1975) 4 SCC 428 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 13 of 108 privilege of exemption granted to personal information under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. If any personal information is

 involved, the same could be dealt with on a case-by-case basis by

 disclosing the information that serves public interest after severing

 the records as per Section 10 of the RTI Act. There is no fiduciary

 relationship between the Chief Justice and the judges or among

 the constitutional functionaries as envisaged under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act which could be a ground for holding back the

 information. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Central Board of Secondary Education and Another v. Aditya

 Bandopadhyay and Others8 and Reserve Bank of India v.

 Jayantilal N. Mistry9 , to contend that the duty of a public servant

 is not to act for the benefit of another public servant, that is, the

 Chief Justice and other functionaries are meant to discharge their

 constitutional duties and not act as a fiduciary of anyone, except

 the people. In arguendo, even if there exists a fiduciary

 relationship among the functionaries, disclosure can be made if it

 serves the larger public interest. Additionally, candour and

 confidentiality are not heads of exemption under the RTI Act and,

 therefore, cannot be invoked as exemptions in this case.

8 (2011) 8 SCC 497
9 (2016) 3 SCC 525 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 14 of 108 10. For clarity and convenience, we would deal with the issues point- wise, albeit would observe that Point no. 1 (referred to as point

 Nos.1 and 2 in the judgment in LPA No. 501 of 2009 dated 12th

 January, 2010) was not contested before the Full Bench but as

 some clarification is required, it has been dealt below.

POINT NO. 1: WHETHER THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA AND
 THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF INDIA ARE TWO
 SEPARATE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES? 11. Terms ‘competent authority’ and ‘public authority’ have been

 specifically defined in clauses (e) and (h) to Section 2 of the RTI

 Act, which read: 12. Term ‘public authority’ under Section 2(h) of the RTI Act includes

 any authority or body or an institution of self-government

 established by the Constitution or under the Constitution. Interpreting the expression ‘public authority’ in Thalappalam

 Service Cooperative Bank Limited and Others v. State of

 Kerala and Others10 , this Court had observed: government established by or under the
 Constitution,
 (2) an authority or body or institution of self- government established or constituted by any other
 law made by Parliament,
 (3) an authority or body or institution of self- government established or constituted by any other
 law made by the State Legislature, and
 (4) an authority or body or institution of self- government established or constituted by
 notification issued or order made by the appropriate
 Government.” 13. Article 124 of the Constitution, which relates to the establishment

 and constitution of the Supreme Court of India, states that there

 shall be a Supreme Court of India consisting of a Chief Justice

 and other judges. It is undebatable that the Supreme Court of

 India is a ‘public authority’, as defined vide clause (h) to Section 2 of the RTI Act as it has been established and constituted by or

 under the Constitution of India. The Chief Justice of India as per

 sub-clause (ii) in clause (e) to Section 2 is the competent authority

 in the case of the Supreme Court. Consequently, in terms of Section 28 of the RTI Act, the Chief Justice of India is empowered Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 17 of 108 to frame rules, which have to be notified in the Official Gazette, to

 carry out the provisions of the RTI Act . 14. The Supreme Court of India, which is a ‘public authority’, would

 necessarily include the office of the Chief Justice of India and the

 judges in view of Article 124 of the Constitution. The office of the

 Chief Justice or for that matter the judges is not separate from the

 Supreme Court, and is part and parcel of the Supreme Court as a

 body, authority and institution. The Chief Justice and the Supreme

 Court are not two distinct and separate ‘public authorities’, albeit

 the latter is a ‘public authority’ and the Chief Justice and the

 judges together form and constitute the ‘public authority’, that is,

 the Supreme Court of India. The interpretation to Section 2(h) cannot be made in derogation of the Constitution. To hold to the

 contrary would imply that the Chief Justice of India and the

 Supreme Court of India are two distinct and separate public

 authorities, and each would have their CPIOs and in terms of sub-

 section (3) to Section 6 of the RTI Act an application made to the

 CPIO of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice would have to be

 transferred to the other when ‘information’ is held or the subject

 matter is more closely connected with the ‘functions’ of the other.

 This would lead to anomalies and difficulties as the institution,

 authority or body is one. The Chief Justice of India is the head of Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 18 of 108 the institution and neither he nor his office is a separate public

 authority. 15. This is equally true and would apply to the High Courts in the

 country as Article 214 states that there shall be a High Court for

 each State and Article 216 states that every High Court shall

 consist of a Chief Justice and such other judges as the President

 of India may from time to time deem it appropriate to appoint.

POINT NO. 2: INFORMATION AND RIGHT TO INFORMATION
 UNDER THE RTI ACT 16. Terms ‘information’, ‘record’ and ‘right to information’ have been

 defined under clauses (f), (i) and (j) to Section 2 of the RTI Act

 which are reproduced below: 17. ‘Information’ as per the definition clause is broad and wide, as it is

 defined to mean “material in any form” with amplifying words

 including records (a term again defined in widest terms vide

 clause (i) to Section 2 of the RTI Act), documents, emails, memos,

 advices, logbooks, contracts, reports, papers, samples, models,

 data material held in electronic form, etc. The last portion of the

 definition clause which states that the term ‘information’ would

 include ‘information relating to any private body which can be

 accessed by a public authority under any other law for the time

 being in force’ has to be read as reference to ‘information’ not

 presently available or held by the public authority but which can be

 accessed by the public authority from a private body under any Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 20 of 108 other law for the time being in force. The term – ‘private body’ in

 the clause has been used to distinguish and is in contradistinction

 to the term – ‘public authority’ as defined in Section 2(h) of the RTI

 Act. It follows that any requirement in the nature of precondition

 and restrictions prescribed by any other law would continue to

 apply and are to be satisfied before information can be accessed

 and asked to be furnished by a private body. 18. What is explicit as well as implicit from the definition of

 ‘information’ in clause (f) to Section 2 follows and gets affirmation

 from the definition of ‘right to information’ that the information

 should be accessible by the public authority and ‘held by or under

 the control of any public authority’. The word ‘hold’ as defined in

 Wharton’s Law Lexicon, 15th Edition, means to have the

 ownership or use of; keep as one’s own, but in the context of the

 present legislation, we would prefer to adopt a broader definition

 of the word ‘hold’ in Black’s Law Dictionary, 6th Edition, as

 meaning; to keep, to retain, to maintain possession of or authority

 over. The words ‘under the control of any public authority’ as per

 their natural meaning would mean the right and power of the

 public authority to get access to the information. It refers to

 dominion over the information or the right to any material,

 document etc. The words ‘under the control of any public Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 21 of 108 authority’ would include within their ambit and scope information

 relating to a private body which can be accessed by a public

 authority under any other law for the time being in force subject to

 the pre-imposed conditions and restrictions as applicable to

 access the information. 19. When information is accessible by a public authority, that is, held

 or under its control, then the information must be furnished to the

 information seeker under the RTI Act even if there are conditions

 or prohibitions under another statute already in force or under the Official Secrets Act, 1923 , that restricts or prohibits access to

 information by the public. In view of the non-obstante clause in Section 2211 of the RTI Act, any prohibition or condition which

 prevents a citizen from having access to information would not

 apply. Restriction on the right of citizens is erased. However,

 when access to information by a public authority itself is prohibited

 or is accessible subject to conditions, then the prohibition is not

 obliterated and the pre-conditions are not erased. Section

 2(f) read with Section 22 of the RTI Act does not bring any

 modification or amendment in any other enactment, which bars or

11Section 22 of the RTI Act reads: 20. Full Bench of the Delhi High Court in its judgment dated 12th

 January 2010 in LPA No. 501 of 2009 had rightly on the

 interpretation of word ‘held’, referred to Philip Coppel’s work

 ‘Information Rights’ (2nd Edition, Thomson, Sweet & Maxwell Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 23 of 108 2007)12 interpreting the provisions of the Freedom of Information

 Act, 2000 (United Kingdom) in which it has been observed: However, if the information is sent to or deposited with
 the public authority which does not hold itself out as
 willing to receive it and which does not subsequently
 use it or where it is accidentally left with a public
 authority or just passes through a public authority or
 where it belongs to an employee or officer of a public
 authority but which is brought by that employee or
 officer unto the public authority’s premises it will not be
 information held by the public authority for the lack of
 the requisite assumption by the public authority of
 responsibility for or dominion over the information that
 is necessary before the public authority can be said to
 hold the information… .”

 Therefore, the word “hold” is not purely a physical concept

 but refers to the appropriate connection between the information

 and the authority so that it can properly be said that the

 information is held by the public authority.13 21. In Khanapuram Gandaiah v. Administrative Officer and

 Others14 , this Court on examining the definition clause 2(f) of the RTI Act had held as under: Under Section 6 of the RTI Act, an applicant is entitled
 to get only such information which can be accessed by
 the “public authority” under any other law for the time
 being in force. …”

 The aforesaid observation emphasises on the mandatory

 requirement of accessibility of information by the public authority

 under any other law for the time being in force. This aspect was

 again highlighted by another Division Bench in Aditya

 Bandopadhyay (supra), wherein information was divided into

 three categories in the following words: Information under the third category does not fall within
 the scope of the RTI Act . Section 3 of the RTI Act gives
 every citizen, the right to “information” held by or under
 the control of a public authority, which falls either under
 the first or second category. In regard to the
 information falling under the first category, there is also
 a special responsibility upon the public authorities to
 suo motu publish and disseminate such information so
 that they will be easily and readily accessible to the
 public without any need to access them by having
 recourse to Section 6 of the RTI Act. There is no such
 obligation to publish and disseminate the other
 information which falls under the second category.”

 The first category refers to the information specified in

 clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 4 which consists of as

 many as seventeen sub-clauses on diverse subjects stated

 therein. It also refers to clause (c) to sub-section (1) to Section 4 by which public authority is required to publish all relevant facts

 while formulating important public policies or pronouncing its

 decision which affects the public. The rationale behind these

 clauses is to disseminate most of the information which is in the

 public interest and promote openness and transparency in

 government. 22. The expressions ‘held by or under the control of any public

 authority’ and ‘information accessible under this Act’ are

 restrictive15 and reflect the limits to the ‘right to information’

15 See ‘Central Board of Secondary Education v. Aditya Bandopadhyay’ (2011) 8 SCC 497 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 27 of 108 conferred vide Section 3 of the RTI Act, which states that subject

 to the provisions of the RTI Act , all citizens shall have the right to

 information. The right to information is not absolute and is subject

 to the conditions and exemptions under the RTI Act . 23. This aspect was again highlighted when the terms ‘information’

 and ‘right to information’ were interpreted in Thalappalam

 Service Cooperative Bank Limited (supra) with the following

 elucidation: As a public authority, the Registrar of Cooperative
 Societies has been conferred with lot of statutory
 powers under the respective Act under which he is Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 28 of 108 functioning. He is also duty-bound to comply with the
 obligations under the RTI Act and furnish information to
 a citizen under the RTI Act . Information which he is
 expected to provide is the information enumerated
 in Section 2(f) of the RTI Act subject to the limitations
 provided under Section 8 of the Act. The Registrar can
 also, to the extent law permits, gather information from
 a Society, on which he has supervisory or
 administrative control under the Cooperative Societies
 Act . Consequently, apart from the information as is
 available to him, under Section 2(f) , he can also gather
 those information from the society, to the extent
 permitted by law. The Registrar is also not obliged to
 disclose those information if those information fall
 under Section 8(1)(j) of the Act. No provision has been
 brought to our knowledge indicating that, under
 the Cooperative Societies Act , a Registrar can call for
 the details of the bank accounts maintained by the
 citizens or members in a cooperative bank. Only those
 information which a Registrar of Cooperative Societies
 can have access under the Cooperative Societies
 Act from a society could be said to be the information
 which is “held” or “under the control of public authority”.
 Even those information, the Registrar, as already
 indicated, is not legally obliged to provide if those
 information falls under the exempted category
 mentioned in Section 8(j) of the Act. Apart from the
 Registrar of Co-operative Societies, there may be other
 public authorities who can access information from a
 co-operative bank of a private account maintained by a
 member of society under law, in the event of which, in
 a given situation, the society will have to part with that
 information. But the demand should have statutory
 backing. 68. Consequently, if an information which has been
 sought for relates to personal information, the
 disclosure of which has no relationship to any public
 activity or interest or which would cause unwarranted
 invasion of the privacy of the individual, the Registrar of
 Cooperative Societies, even if he has got that
 information, is not bound to furnish the same to an
 applicant, unless he is satisfied that the larger public Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 29 of 108 interest justifies the disclosure of such information, that
 too, for reasons to be recorded in writing.”

 Thus, the scope of the expressions ‘information’ and ‘right to

 information’ which can be accessed by a citizen under the RTI Act have to be understood in light of the above discussion.

POINT NO. 3: SECTIONS 8, 9, 10 AND 11 OF THE RTI ACT 24. To ensure transparency and accountability and to make Indian

 democracy more participatory, the RTI Act sets out a practical and

 pragmatic regime to enable citizens to secure greater access to

 information available with public authorities by balancing diverse

 interests including efficient governance, optimum use of limited

 fiscal operations and preservation of confidentiality of sensitive

 information. The preamble to the RTI Act appropriately

 summarises the object of harmonising various conflicts in the

 following words: “ xx xx xx

 AND WHEREAS democracy requires an informed
 citizenry and transparency of information which are
 vital to its functioning and also to contain corruption
 and to hold Governments and their instrumentalities
 accountable to the governed; AND WHEREAS revelation of information in actual
 practice is likely to conflict with other public interests
 including efficient operations of the Governments,
 optimum use of limited fiscal resources and the
 preservation of confidentiality of sensitive information; Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 30 of 108 AND WHEREAS it is necessary to harmonise these
 conflicting interests while preserving the paramountcy
 of the democratic ideal; xx xx xx” 25. An attempt to resolve conflict and disharmony between these

 aspects is evident in the exceptions and conditions on access to

 information set out in Sections 8 to 11 of the RTI Act. At the

 outset, we would reproduce Section 8 of the RTI Act, which reads

 as under: 26. Clauses in sub-section (1) to Section 8 can be divided into two

 categories: clauses (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h) and (i), and clauses (d), (e) and (j). The latter clauses state that the prohibition specified

 would not apply or operate when the competent authority in

 clauses (d) and (e) and the PIO in clause (j) is satisfied that larger

 public interest warrants disclosure of such information.16

 Therefore, clauses (d), (e) and (j) of Section 8(1) of the RTI Act

 incorporate qualified prohibitions and are conditional and not

 absolute exemptions. Clauses (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h) and (i) do

 not have any such stipulation. Prohibitory stipulations in these

 clauses do not permit disclosure of information on satisfaction of

 the larger public interest rule. These clauses, therefore,

 incorporate absolute exclusions. 27. Sub-section (2) to Section 8 states that notwithstanding anything

 contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 or any of the

 exemptions permissible in accordance with sub-section (1), a

 public authority may allow access to information if the public

 interest in disclosure outweighs the harm to the protected

 interests. The disclosure under Section 8(2) by the public authority

16For the purpose of the present decision, we do not consider it appropriate to decide who would be
 the ‘competent authority’ in the case of other public authorities, if sub-clauses (i) to (v) to clause (e)
 of Section 2 are inapplicable. This ‘anomaly’ or question is not required to be decided in the present
 case as the Chief Justice of India is a competent authority in the case of the Supreme Court of
 India. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 34 of 108 is not a mandate or compulsion but is in the form of discretionary

 disclosure. Section 8(2) acknowledges and empowers the public

 authority to lawfully disclose information held by them despite the

 exemptions under sub-section (1) to Section 8 if the public

 authority is of the opinion that the larger public interest warrants

 disclosure. Such disclosure can be made notwithstanding the

 provisions of the Official Secrets Act . Section 8(2) does not create

 a vested or justiciable right that the citizens can enforce by an

 application before the PIO seeking information under the RTI Act .

 PIO is under no duty to disclose information covered by

 exemptions under Section 8(1) of the RTI Act. Once the PIO

 comes to the conclusion that any of the exemption clauses is

 applicable, the PIO cannot pass an order directing disclosure

 under Section 8(2) of the RTI Act as this discretionary power is

 exclusively vested with the public authority. 28. Section 9 provides that without prejudice to the provisions of Section 8 , a request for information may be rejected if such a

 request for providing access would involve an infringement of

 copyright subsisting in a person other than the State. 29. Section 10 deals with severability of exempted information and

 sub-section (1) thereof reads as under: Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 35 of 108 30. Section 11 , which deals with third party information, and

 incorporates conditional exclusion based on breach of

 confidentiality by applying public interest test, reads as under: 31. At the present stage, we would like to quote from Aditya

 Bandopadhyay (supra) wherein this Court, on the aspect of

 general principles of interpretation while deciding the conflict

 between the right to information and exclusions under Section 8 to 11 of the RTI Act, had observed: But that is purely voluntary and should not be confused
 with any obligation under the RTI Act .”

 Paragraph 63 quoted above has to be read with our

 observations on the last portion of clause (f) to Section 2 defining

 the word ‘information’, albeit, on the observations and findings

 recorded, we respectfully concur. For the present decision, we are

 required to primarily examine clauses (e) and (j) of sub-section (1)

 to Section 8 and Section 11 of the RTI Act. Point No. 3 (A): Fiduciary Relationship under Section 8(1)(e) of the
 RTI Act 32. Clause (e) to Section 8(1) of the RTI Act states that information

 made available to a person in his fiduciary relationship shall not be

 disclosed unless the competent authority is satisfied that the Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 39 of 108 larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information. The expression ‘fiduciary relationship’ was examined and

 explained in Aditya Bandopadhyay (supra), in the following

 words: à-vis employee. An employee who comes into
 possession of business or trade secrets or confidential
 information relating to the employer in the course of his
 employment, is expected to act as a fiduciary and
 cannot disclose it to others. Similarly, if on the request
 of the employer or official superior or the head of a
 department, an employee furnishes his personal details
 and information, to be retained in confidence, the
 employer, the official superior or departmental head is
 expected to hold such personal information in
 confidence as a fiduciary, to be made use of or Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 40 of 108 disclosed only if the employee’s conduct or acts are
 found to be prejudicial to the employer. 41. In a philosophical and very wide sense, examining
 bodies can be said to act in a fiduciary capacity, with
 reference to the students who participate in an
 examination, as a Government does while governing
 its citizens or as the present generation does with
 reference to the future generation while preserving the
 environment. But the words “information available to a
 person in his fiduciary relationship” are used in Section
 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act in its normal and well-recognised
 sense, that is, to refer to persons who act in a fiduciary
 capacity, with reference to a specific beneficiary or
 beneficiaries who are to be expected to be protected or
 benefited by the actions of the fiduciary—a trustee with
 reference to the beneficiary of the trust, a guardian with
 reference to a minor/physically infirm/mentally
 challenged, a parent with reference to a child, a lawyer
 or a chartered accountant with reference to a client, a
 doctor or nurse with reference to a patient, an agent
 with reference to a principal, a partner with reference to
 another partner, a director of a company with reference
 to a shareholder, an executor with reference to a
 legatee, a receiver with reference to the parties to a lis,
 an employer with reference to the confidential
 information relating to the employee, and an employee
 with reference to business dealings/transaction of the
 employer. We do not find that kind of fiduciary
 relationship between the examining body and the
 examinee, with reference to the evaluated answer
 books, that come into the custody of the examining
 body.”

 This Court held that the exemption under section 8(1)(e) of

 the RTI Act does not apply to beneficiaries regarding whom the

 fiduciary holds information. In other words, information available

 with the public authority relating to beneficiaries cannot be

 withheld from or denied to the beneficiaries themselves. A Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 41 of 108 fiduciary would, ergo, be duty-bound to make thorough disclosure

 of all relevant facts of all transactions between them in a fiduciary

 relationship to the beneficiary. In the facts of the said case, this

 Court had to consider whether an examining body, the Central

 Board of Secondary Education, held information in the form of

 evaluated answer-books of the examinees in fiduciary capacity.

 Answering in the negative, it was nevertheless observed that even

 if the examining body is in a fiduciary relationship with an

 examinee, it will be duty-bound to disclose the evaluated answer-

 books to the examinee and at the same time, they owe a duty to

 the examinee not to disclose the answer-books to anyone else,

 that is, any third party. This observation is of significant

 importance as it recognises that Section 8(1)(j) , and as noticed

 below - Section 11 , encapsulates another right, that is the right to

 protect privacy and confidentiality by barring the furnishing of

 information to third parties except when the public interest as

 prescribed so requires. In this way, the RTI Act complements both

 the right to information and the right to privacy and confidentiality.

 Further, it moderates and regulates the conflict between the two

 rights by applying the test of larger public interest or comparative

 examination of public interest in disclosure of information with

 possible harm and injury to the protected interests. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 42 of 108 33. In Reserve Bank of India (supra) this Court had expounded upon

 the expression ‘fiduciary relationship’ used in clause (e) to sub-

 section (1) of Section 8 of the RTI Act by referring to the definition

 of ‘fiduciary relationship’ in the Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition,

 2005, which reads as under: 34. Fiduciary relationships, regardless of whether they are formal,

 informal, voluntary or involuntary, must satisfy the four conditions

 for a relationship to classify as a fiduciary relationship. In each of

 the four principles, the emphasis is on trust, reliance, the

 fiduciary’s superior power or dominant position and corresponding

 dependence of the beneficiary on the fiduciary which imposes

 responsibility on the fiduciary to act in good faith and for the

 benefit of and to protect the beneficiary and not oneself. Section

 8(1)(e) is a legal acceptance that there are ethical or moral

 relationships or duties in relationships that create rights and

 obligations, beyond contractual, routine or even special

 relationships with standard and typical rights and obligations.

 Contractual or non-fiduciary relationships could require that the

 party should protect and promote the interest of the other and not

 cause harm or damage, but the fiduciary relationship casts a

 positive obligation and demands that the fiduciary should protect

 the beneficiary and not promote personal self-interest. A Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 44 of 108 fiduciary’s loyalty, duties and obligations are stricter than the

 morals of the market place and it is not honesty alone, but the

 punctilio of an honour which is the most sensitive standard of

 behaviour which is applied {See – Opinion of Cardozo, J. in

 Meinhard v. Salmon17}. Thus, the level of judicial scrutiny in cases

 of fiduciary relationship is intense as the level of commitment and

 loyalty expected is higher than non-fiduciary relationships.

 Fiduciary relationship may arise because of the statute which

 requires a fiduciary to act selflessly with integrity and fidelity and

 the other party, that is the beneficiary, depends upon the wisdom

 and confidence reposed in the fiduciary. A contractual, statutory

 and possibly all relationships cover a broad field, but a fiduciary

 relationship could exist, confined to a limited area or an act, as

 relationships can have several facets. Thus, relationships can be

 partly fiduciary and partly non-fiduciary with the former being

 confined to a particular act or action which need not manifest itself

 in entirety in the interaction and relationship between two parties.

 What would distinguish non-fiduciary relationship from fiduciary

 relationship or an act is the requirement of trust reposed, higher

 standard of good faith and honesty required on the part of the

 fiduciary with reference to a particular transaction(s) due to moral,

17 (1928) 164 N.E. 545, 546 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 45 of 108 personal or statutory responsibility of the fiduciary as compared to

 the beneficiary, resulting in dependence of the beneficiary. This

 may arise due to superior knowledge and training of the fiduciary

 or the position he occupies. 35. Ordinarily the relationship between the Chief Justice and judges

 would not be that of a fiduciary and a beneficiary. However, it is

 not an absolute rule/code for in certain situations and acts,

 fiduciary relationship may arise. Whether or not such a

 relationship arises in a particular situation would have to be dealt

 with on the tests and parameters enunciated above.

Point No. 3 (B): Right to Privacy under Section 8(1)(j) and
 Confidentiality under Section 11 of the RTI Act 36. If one’s right to know is absolute, then the same may invade

 another’s right to privacy and breach confidentiality, and,

 therefore, the former right has to be harmonised with the need for

 personal privacy, confidentiality of information and effective

 governance. The RTI Act captures this interplay of the competing

 rights under clause (j) to Section 8(1) and Section 11 . While

 clause (j) to Section 8(1) refers to personal information as distinct

 from information relating to public activity or interest and seeks to

 exempt disclosure of such information, as well as such information

 which, if disclosed, would cause unwarranted invasion of privacy Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 46 of 108 of an individual, unless public interest warrants its disclosure, Section 11 exempts the disclosure of ‘information or

 record…which relates to or has been supplied by a third party and

 has been treated as confidential by that third party’. By differently

 wording and inditing the challenge that privacy and confidentiality

 throw to information rights, the RTI Act also recognises the

 interconnectedness, yet distinctiveness between the breach of

 confidentiality and invasion of privacy, as the former is broader

 than the latter, as will be noticed below. 37. Breach of confidentiality has an older conception and was

 primarily an equitable remedy based on the principle that one

 party is entitled to enforce equitable duty on the persons bound by

 an obligation of confidentiality on account of the relationship they

 share, with actual or constructive knowledge of the confidential

 relationship. Conventionally a conception of equity, confidentiality

 also arises in a contract, or by a statute.18 Contractually, an

 obligation to keep certain information confidential can be

 effectuated expressly or implicitly by an oral or written agreement,

 whereas in statutes certain extant and defined relationships are

 imposed with the duty to maintain details, communication

18See Prince Albert v. Strange, (1849) 1 Mac.&G 25, and Lord Oliver of Aylmerton, Spycatcher: 38. While previously information that could be considered personal

 would have been protected only if it were exchanged in a

 confidential relationship or considered confidential by nature,

 significant developments in jurisprudence since the 1990’s have

 posited the acceptance of privacy as a separate right and

 something worthy of protection on its own as opposed to being

 protected under an actionable claim for breach of confidentiality. A

 claim to protect privacy is, in a sense, a claim for the preservation

 of confidentiality of personal information. With progression of the

 right to privacy, the underlying values of the law that protects

 personal information came to be seen differently as the courts

 recognised that unlike law of confidentiality that is based upon

 duty of good faith, right to privacy focuses on the protection of

 human autonomy and dignity by granting the right to control the

 dissemination of information about one’s private life and the right

 to the esteem and respect of other people (See - Sedley LJ

 in Douglas v. Hello! Ltd22). In PJS v. News Group Newspapers

 Ltd.23, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom had drawn a

22 (2001) QB 967
23 (2016) UKSC 26 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 50 of 108 distinction between the right to respect private and family life or

 privacy and claims based upon confidentiality by observing that

 the law extends greater protection to privacy rights than rights in

 relation to confidential matters. In the former case, the claim for

 misuse of private information can survive even when information

 is in the public domain as its repetitive use itself leads to violation

 of the said right. The right to privacy gets the benefit of both the

 quantitative and the qualitative protection. The former refers to the

 disclosure already made and what is yet undisclosed, whereas the

 latter refers to the privateness of the material, invasion of which is

 an illegal intrusion into the right to privacy. Claim for confidentiality

 would generally fail when the information is in public domain. The

 law of privacy is, therefore, not solely concerned with the

 information, but more concerned with the intrusion and violation of

 private rights. Citing an instance of how publishing of defamatory

 material can be remedied by a trial establishing the falsity of such

 material and award of damages, whereas invasion of privacy

 cannot be similarly redressed, the Court had highlighted the

 reason why truth or falsity of an allegation or information may be

 irrelevant when it comes to invasion of privacy. Therefore, claims

 for protection against invasion of private and family life do not

 depend upon confidentiality alone. This distinction is important to Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 51 of 108 understand the protection given to two different rights vide Section

 8(1)(j) and 11 of the RTI Act. 39. In District Registrar and Collector v. Canara Bank24 this Court

 had referred to the judgment of the U.S. Supreme Court in United

 States v. Miller25 on the question of “voluntary” parting with

 information and under the heading ‘Criticism of Miller’ had

 observed: 40. The right to privacy though not expressly guaranteed in the

 Constitution of India is now recognized as a basic fundamental Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 53 of 108 right vide decision of the Constitutional Bench in K.S.

 Puttaswamy and Another v. Union of India and Others26 holding that it is an intrinsic part of the right to life and liberty

 guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and recognised

 under several international treaties, chief among them being Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948

 which states that no one shall be subjected to arbitrary

 interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor

 to attacks upon his honour and reputation. The judgment

 recognises that everyone has a right to the protection of laws

 against such interference or attack. 41. In K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) the main judgment (authored by D.Y.

 Chandrachud, J.) has referred to provisions of Section 8(1)(j) of

 the RTI Act to highlight that the right to privacy is entrenched with

 constitutional status in Part III of the Constitution, thus providing a

 touchstone on which validity of executive decisions can be

 assessed and validity of laws can be determined vide judicial

 review exercised by the courts. This observation highlights the

 status and importance of the right to privacy as a constitutional

 right. The ratio as recorded in the two concurring judgments of

26 (2017) 10 SCC 1 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 54 of 108 the learned judges (R.F. Nariman and Sanjay Kishan Kaul, JJ.)

 are similar. It is observed that privacy involves a person’s right to

 his physical body; right to informational privacy which deals with a

 person’s mind; and the right to privacy of choice which protects an

 individual’s autonomy over personal choices. While physical

 privacy enjoys constitutional recognition in Article 19(1)(d) and (e)

 read with Article 21 , personal informational privacy is relatable to Article 21 and right to privacy of choice is enshrined in Articles

 19(1)(a) to (c), 20(3), 21 and 25 of the Constitution. In the

 concurring opinion, there is a reference to ‘The Right to Privacy’

 by Samuel Warren and Louis D. Brandeis on an individual’s right

 to control the dissemination of personal information and that an

 individual has a right to limit access to such information/shield

 such information from unwarranted access. Knowledge about a

 person gives another power over that person, as personal data

 collected is capable of effecting representations in his decision

 making process and shaping behaviour which can have a

 stultifying effect on the expression of dissent which is the

 cornerstone of democracy. In the said concurring judgment, it has

 been further held that the right to protection of reputation from

 being unfairly harmed needs to be zealously guarded not only

 against falsehood but also against certain truths by observing: Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 55 of 108 have legitimate interest in analysing data borne from hospital

 records to understand and deal with a public health epidemic and

 to obviate serious impact on the population. If the anonymity of the

 individual/patient is preserved, it would legitimately assert a valid

 State interest in the preservation of public health. 46. For the purpose of the present case, we are not concerned with

 the specific connotations of the right to anonymity and the

 restrictions/limitations appended to it. In the context of the RTI Act ,

 suffice would be to say that the right to protect identity and

 anonymity would be identically subjected to the public interest

 test. 47. Clause (j) to sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the RTI Act specifically

 refers to invasion of the right to privacy of an individual and

 excludes from disclosure information that would cause

 unwarranted invasion of privacy of such individual, unless the

 disclosure would satisfy the larger public interest test. This clause

 also draws a distinction in its treatment of personal information,

 whereby disclosure of such information is exempted if such

 information has no relation to public activity or interest. We would

 like to, however, clarify that in their treatment of this exemption,

 this Court has treated the word ‘information’ which if disclosed Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 59 of 108 would lead to invasion of privacy to mean personal information, as

 distinct from public information. This aspect has been dealt with in

 the succeeding paragraphs. 48. As per Black’s Law Dictionary, 8th Edition, the word ‘personal’

 means ‘of or affecting a person or of or constituting personal

 property’. In Collins Dictionary of the English Language, the word

 ‘personal’ has been defined as under: 49. In Peck v. United Kingdom31, the European Court of Human

 Rights had held that private life is a broad term not susceptible to

 exhaustive definition but includes the right to establish and

 develop relationships with other human beings such that there is a

 zone of interaction of a person with others, even in a public

 context, which may fall within the scope of private life.

 Recognised facets of an individual’s private life include a person’s

 health, ethnicity, personal relationships, sexual conduct; religious

 or philosophical convictions and personal image. These facets

 resemble what has been categorised as sensitive personal data

 within the meaning of the Data Protection Act, 2018 as applicable

 in the United Kingdom. 50. Gleeson CJ in Australian Broadcasting Corporation v. Lenah

 Game Meats Pty Ltd32 had distinguished between what is public

 and private information in the following manner: 51. This test had been adopted in several English decisions including

 decision of the House of Lords in Campbell v. Mirror Group

 Newspapers Limited33 wherein Lord Hope of Craighead had

 further elucidated that the definition is taken from the definition of

 ‘privacy’ in the United States, where the right to privacy is invaded

 if the matter which is publicised is of a kind that – (a) would be

 highly offensive to a reasonable person and (b) not of legitimate

 concern to the public. Law of privacy in Campbell (supra), it was

 observed, was not intended for the protection of the unduly

 sensitive and would cover matters which are offensive and

 objectionable to a reasonable man of ordinary sensibilities who

 must expect some reporting of his daily activities. The mind that

 has to be examined is not that of a reader in general, but that of

 the person who is affected by the publicising/dissemination of his

 information. The question is what a reasonable person of ordinary

 sensibilities would feel if he/she is subjected to such publicity.

 Only when publicity is such that a reasonable person would feel

33 (2004) UKHL 22 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 62 of 108 justified in feeling seriously aggrieved that there would be an

 invasion in the right to privacy which gives rise to a cause of

 action. 52. In Douglas (supra), it was also held that there are different

 degrees of privacy which would be equally true for information

 given in confidentiality, and the potential for disclosure of the

 information to cause harm is an important factor to be taken into

 account in the assessment of the extent of the restriction to

 protect the right to privacy. 53. While clause (j) exempts disclosure of two kinds of information, as

 noted in paragraph 47 above, that is “personal information” with

 no relation to public activity or interest and “information” that is

 exempt from disclosure to prevent unwarranted invasion of

 privacy, this Court has not underscored, as will be seen below,

 such distinctiveness and treated personal information to be

 exempt from disclosure if such disclosure invades on balance the

 privacy rights, thereby linking the former kind of information with

 the latter kind. This means that information, which if disclosed

 could lead to an unwarranted invasion of privacy rights, would

 mean personal information, that is, which is not having co-relation

 with public information. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 63 of 108 54. In Girish Ramchandra Deshpande v. Central Information

 Commissioner and Others34 , the applicant had sought copies of

 all memos, show-cause notices and censure/punishment awarded

 to a Government employee from his employer and also details of

 his movable/immovable properties, details of investment, loan and

 borrowings from financial institutions, details of gifts accepted by

 the employee from his family members and relatives at the time of

 the marriage of his son. In this context, it was observed: 55. In Canara Bank v. C.S. Shyam and Another35 , the applicant had

 sought information on parameters with regard to transfer of

 clerical staff with details of individual employees, such as date of

 their joining, promotion earned, date of their joining the branch,

 the authorities who had posted the transfer letters, etc. The

 information sought was declared to be personal in nature, which

 was conditionally exempted from disclosure under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. 56. In Subhash Chandra Agarwal v. Registrar , Supreme Court of

 India and Others36, the applicant (who is also the respondent in

 the present appeals) had sought information relating to details of

 medical facilities availed by individual judges of the Supreme

 Court and their family members, including information relating to

 private treatment in India and abroad in last three years. This

 Court had held that the information sought by the applicant was

35 (2018) 11 SCC 426
36 (2018) 11 SCC 634 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 65 of 108 ‘personal’ information and was protected under Section 8(1)(j) of

 the RTI Act, for disclosure would cause unwarranted invasion of

 privacy which prohibition would not apply where larger public

 interest justifies disclosure of such information. 57. In R.K. Jain v. Union of India and Another37 , the applicant had

 sought inspection of documents relating to Annual Confidential

 Reports (ACRs) of a Member of Customs Excise and Service Tax

 Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and follow up action taken by the

 authorities based on the ACRs. The information sought was

 treated as personal information, which, except in cases involving

 overriding public interest, could not be disclosed. It was observed

 that the procedure under Section 11 of the RTI Act in such cases

 has to be followed. The matter was remitted to examine the

 aspect of larger public interest and to follow the procedure

 prescribed under Section 11 of the RTI Act which, it was held, was

 mandatory. 58. Reference can also be made to Aditya Bandopadhyay (supra),

 as discussed earlier in paragraph 32, where this Court has held

 that while a fiduciary could not withhold information from the

 beneficiary in whose benefit he holds such information, he/she

37 (2013) 14 SCC 794 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 66 of 108 owed a duty to the beneficiary to not disclose the same to anyone

 else. This exposition of the Court equally reconciles the right to

 know with the rights to privacy under clause (j) to Section 8(1) of

 the RTI Act. 59. Reading of the aforesaid judicial precedents, in our opinion, would

 indicate that personal records, including name, address, physical,

 mental and psychological status, marks obtained, grades and

 answer sheets, are all treated as personal information. Similarly,

 professional records, including qualification, performance,

 evaluation reports, ACRs, disciplinary proceedings, etc. are all

 personal information. Medical records, treatment, choice of

 medicine, list of hospitals and doctors visited, findings recorded,

 including that of the family members, information relating to

 assets, liabilities, income tax returns, details of investments,

 lending and borrowing, etc. are personal information. Such

 personal information is entitled to protection from unwarranted

 invasion of privacy and conditional access is available when

 stipulation of larger public interest is satisfied. This list is indicative

 and not exhaustive. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 67 of 108 60. In Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Public Information Officer and

 Another38 , the Delhi High Court had examined and interpreted Section 11 of the RTI Act in the following manner: 61. We would clarify that Section 11 is not merely procedural but also

 a substantive provision which applies when the PIO intends to

 disclose information that relates to or has been supplied by a third

 party and has been treated as confidential by that third party. It

 requires the PIO to issue notice to the third party who may make

 submission in writing or orally, which submission has to be kept in

 view while taking a decision. Proviso to Section 11(1) applies in all

 cases except trade or commercial secrets protected by law.

 Pertinently, information including trade secrets, intellectual

 property rights, etc. are governed by clause (d) to sub-section (1)

 of Section 8 and Section 9 of the RTI Act. In all other cases where

 the information relates to or has been supplied by the third party

 and treated as confidential by that third party, disclosure in terms

 of the proviso may be allowed where the public interest in

 disclosure outweighs in importance any possible harm or injury to

 the interest of the third party. Confidentiality is protected and

 preserved in law because the public interest requires such Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 70 of 108 protection. It helps and promotes free communication without fear

 of retaliation. However, public interest in protecting confidentiality

 is subject to three well-known exceptions. The first exception

 being a public interest in the disclosure of iniquity for there cannot

 be any loss of confidentiality involving a wrongdoing. Secondly,

 there cannot be any public interest when the public has been

 misled. Thirdly, the principle of confidentiality does not apply when

 the disclosure relates to matters of public concern, which

 expression is vastly different from news value or news to satiate

 public curiosity. Public concern relates to matters which are an

 integral part of free speech and expression and entitlement of

 everyone to truth and fair comment about it. There are certain

 circumstances where the public interest in maintaining

 confidentiality may be outweighed by the public interest in

 disclosure and, thus, in common law, it may not be treated by the

 courts as confidential information. These aspects would be

 relevant under the proviso to Section 11(1) of the RTI Act. 62. Proviso to Section 11(1) of the RTI Act is a statutory recognition of

 three exceptions and more when it incorporates public interest

 test. It states that information, otherwise treated confidential, can

 be disclosed if the public interest in disclosure outweighs the

 possible harm and injury to the interest of such a third party. The Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 71 of 108 expression ‘third party’ has been defined in clause (n) to Section 2 to mean a person other than the citizen making a request for

 information and includes a public authority. Thus, the scope of

 ‘information’ under Section 11 is much broader than that of clause (j) to Section 8 (1) , as it could include information that is personal

 as well as information that concerns the government and its

 working, among others, which relates to or is supplied by a third

 party and treated as confidential. Third-party could include any

 individual, natural or juristic entity including the public authority. 63. Confidentiality in case of personal information and its co-relation

 with the right to privacy and disclosure of the same on the anvil of

 the public interest test has been discussed above. We now

 proceed to look at confidentiality of information concerning the

 government and information relating to its inner-workings and the

 difference in approach in applying the public interest test in

 disclosing such information, as opposed to the approach adopted

 for other confidential/personal information. The reason for such

 jurisprudential distinction with regard to government information is

 best expressed in Attorney General (UK) v. Heinemann Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 72 of 108 Publishers Pty Ltd.39 wherein the High Court of Australia had

 observed: It may be a sufficient detriment to the citizen that
 disclosure of information relating to his affairs will
 expose his actions to public discussion and criticism.
 But it can scarcely be a relevant detriment to the
 government that publication of material concerning its
 actions will merely expose it to public discussion and
 criticism. It is unacceptable in our democratic society
 that there should be a restraint on the publication of
 information relating to government when the only vice
 of that information is that it enables the public to
 discuss, review and criticize government action.

 Accordingly, the court will determine the government's
 claim to confidentiality by reference to the public
 interest. Unless disclosure is likely to injure the public
 interest, it will not be protected. The court will not prevent the publication of information
 which merely throws light on the past workings of
 government, even if it be not public property, so long
 as it does not prejudice the community in other
 respects. Then disclosure will itself serve the public
 interest in keeping the community informed and in
 promoting discussion of public affairs. If, however, it
 appears that disclosure will be inimical to the public
 interest because national security, relations with
 foreign countries or the ordinary business of
 government will be prejudiced, disclosure will be
 restrained. There will be cases in which the conflicting
 considerations will be finely balanced, where it is
 difficult to decide whether the public's interest in
 knowing and in expressing its opinion, outweighs the
 need to protect confidentiality.”

 The above principles have also been reiterated and relied

 upon by the courts in the United Kingdom [See Coco (supra), Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 74 of 108 Attorney General v. Jonathan Cape Ltd.41]. In Guardian

 Newspapers (supra), Lord Keith of Kinkel had observed: 64. In R.K. Jain v. Union of India42 , this Court, while examining Section 123 of the Evidence Act, 1872, had paraphrased the

 earlier judgment of the Constitution Bench of this Court penned

 down by Fazal Ali, J. in S.P. Gupta (supra) (the first Judge’s case)

 in which the question of privilege against disclosure of

 correspondence between the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court,

41 [1976] QB 752
42 (1993) 4 SCC 119 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 75 of 108 Chief Justice of India and the Law Minister of the Union had

 arisen, in the following words: 43 [1980] AC 1090
44 1982 AC 888 (H.L.) Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 78 of 108 Trade45; and Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the

 Civil Service46]. 67. Having held so, the Bench in R.K. Jain (1993) (supra) had

 proceeded to observe: machinery is needlessly exposed to the public. On
 such sensitive issues it would hamper to express frank
 and forthright views or opinions. therefore, it may be
 that at that level the deliberations and in exceptional
 cases that class or category or documents get
 protection, in particular, on policy matters. Therefore,
 the court would be willing to respond to the executive
 public interest immunity to disclose certain documents
 where national security or high policy, high sensitivity is
 involved. 54. […] In President Nixon's case, the Supreme Court
 of the United States held that it is the court's duty to
 construe and delineate claims arising under express
 powers, to interpret claims with respect to powers
 alleged to derive from enumerated powers of the
 Constitution, In deciding whether the matter has in any
 measure been committed by the Constitution to
 another branch of government, or whether the action of
 that branch exceeds whatever authority has been
 committed, is itself a delicate exercise in constitutional
 interpretation, and is the responsibility of the court as
 ultimate interpreter of the Constitution…” 68. At the same time, it was held: 69. The aforesaid passages highlight the relevance of confidentiality

 in the government and its functioning. However, this is not to state Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 81 of 108 that plea of confidentiality is an absolute bar, for in terms of

 proviso to Section 11(1) of the RTI Act, the PIO has to undertake

 the balancing exercise and weigh the advantages and benefits of

 disclosing the information with the possible harm or injury to the

 third party on the information being disclosed. We have already

 referred to the general approach on the right of access to

 government records under the heading “ Section 8(1)(j) and Section 11 of the RTI Act” with reference to the decisions of the

 High Court of Australia in Heinemann Publishers Pty Ltd.

 (supra) and John Fairfax and Sons Ltd. (supra). 70. Most jurists would accept that absolute transparency in all facets

 of government is neither feasible nor desirable,47 for there are

 several limitations on complete disclosure of governmental

 information, especially in matters relating to national security,

 diplomatic relations, internal security or sensitive diplomatic

 correspondence. There is also a need to accept and trust the

 government’s decision-makers, which they have to also earn,

 when they plead that confidentiality in their meetings and

47 Michael Schudson, ‘The Right to Know vs the Need for Secrecy: The US Experience’ The
 Conversation (May 2015) <https://theconversation.com/the-right-to-know-vs-the-need-for-secrecy-
 the-us-experience-40948>; Eric R. Boot, ‘The Feasibility of a Public Interest Defense for
 Whistleblowing’, Law and Philosophy (2019). See generally Michael Schudson, The Rise of the
 Right to Know: Politics and the Culture of Transparency, 1945–1975 (Cambridge (MA): Harvard
 University Press 2015). Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 82 of 108 exchange of views is needed to have a free flow of views on

 sensitive, vexatious and pestilent issues in which there can be

 divergent views. This is, however, not to state that there are no

 dangers in maintaining secrecy even on aspects that relate to

 national security, diplomatic relations, internal security or sensitive

 diplomatic correspondence. Confidentiality may have some

 bearing and importance in ensuring honest and fair appraisals,

 though it could work the other way around also and, therefore,

 what should be disclosed would depend on authentic enquiry

 relating to the public interest, that is, whether the right to access

 and the right to know outweighs the possible public interest in

 protecting privacy or outweighs the harm and injury to third parties

 when the information relates to such third parties or the

 information is confidential in nature. POINT NO. 4: MEANING OF THE TERM ‘PUBLIC INTEREST’ 71. In Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms and

 Another48 recognising the voters’ right to know the antecedents of

 the candidates and the right to information which stems from Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, it was held that directions could

48 (2002) 5 SCC 294 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 83 of 108 be issued by the Court to subserve public interest in creating an

 informed citizenry, observing: 6. Cumulative reading of plethora of decisions of this
 Court as referred to, it is clear that if the field meant for
 legislature and executive is left unoccupied detrimental
 to the public interest, this Court would have ample
 jurisdiction under Article 32 read with Article 141 and 142 of the Constitution to issue necessary directions to
 the Executive to subserve public interest.”

 Clearly, the larger public interest in having an informed

 electorate, fair elections and creating a dialectical democracy had

 outweighed and compelled this Court to issue the directions

 notwithstanding disclosure of information relating to the personal

 assets, educational qualifications and antecedents including

 previous involvement in a criminal case of the contesting

 candidate. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 84 of 108 72. Public interest, sometimes criticised as inherently amorphous and

 incapable of a precise definition, is a time tested and historical

 conflict of rights test which is often applied in the right to

 information legislation to balance right to access and protection of

 the conflicting right to deny access. In Mosley v. News Group

 Papers Ltd.49 it has been observed: 73. Comparison or balancing exercise of competing public interests

 has to be undertaken in both sections, albeit under Section 8(1)(j) the comparison is between public interest behind the exemption,

 that is personal information or invasion of privacy of the individual

 and public interest behind access to information, whereas the test

 prescribed by the proviso to Section 11(1) is somewhat broader

 and wider as it requires comparison between disclosure of

 information relating to a third person or information supplied and

 treated as confidential by the third party and possible harm or

 injury to the third party on disclosure, which would include all kinds

 of ‘possible’ harm and injury to the third party on disclosure. 74. This Court in Bihar Public Service Commission v. Saiyed

 Hussain Abbas Rizwi and Another50 has held that the phrase

 ‘public interest’ in Section 8(1)(j) has to be understood in its true

 connotation to give complete meaning to the relevant provisions of

 the RTI Act . However, the RTI Act does not specifically identify

 factors to be taken into account in determining where the public

50 (2012) 13 SCC 61 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 86 of 108 interest lies. Therefore, it is important to understand the meaning

 of the expression ‘public interest’ in the context of the RTI Act .

 This Court held ‘public interest’ to mean the general welfare of the

 public warranting the disclosure and the protection applicable, in

 which the public as a whole has a stake, and observed: The object and purpose behind the specific exemption vide clause (j) to Section 8(1) is to protect and shield oneself from

 unwarranted access to personal information and to protect facets

 like reputation, honour, etc. associated with the right to privacy.

 Similarly, there is a public interest in the maintenance of

 confidentiality in the case of private individuals and even

 government, an aspect we have already discussed. 76. The public interest test in the context of the RTI Act would mean

 reflecting upon the object and purpose behind the right to

 information, the right to privacy and consequences of invasion,

 and breach of confidentiality and possible harm and injury that

 would be caused to the third party, with reference to a particular

 information and the person. In an article ‘Freedom of Information Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 88 of 108 and the Public Interest: the Commonwealth experience’ published

 in the Oxford University Commonwealth Law Journal,51 the factors

 identified as favouring disclosure, those against disclosure and

 lastly those irrelevant for consideration of public interest have

 been elucidated as under: 77. In Campbell (supra), reference was made to the Press

 Complaints Commission Code of Practice to further elucidate on

 the test of public interest which stands at the intersection of

 freedom of expression and the privacy rights of an individual to

 hold that: 78. Public interest has no relationship and is not connected with the

 number of individuals adversely affected by the disclosure which

 may be small and insignificant in comparison to the substantial

 number of individuals wanting disclosure. It will vary according to

 the information sought and all circumstances of the case that bear

 upon the public interest in maintaining the exemptions and those

 in disclosing the information must be accounted for to judge the

 right balance. Public interest is not immutable and even time-gap Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 90 of 108 may make a significant difference. The type and likelihood of harm

 to the public interest behind the exemption and public interest in

 disclosure would matter. The delicate balance requires

 identification of public interest behind each exemption and then

 cumulatively weighing the public interest in accepting or

 maintaining the exemption(s) to deny information in a particular

 case against the public interest in disclosure in that particular

 case. Further, under Section 11(1) , reference is made to the

 ‘possible’ harm and injury to the third party which will also have to

 be factored in when determining disclosure of confidential

 information relating to the third parties. 79. The last aspect in the context of public interest test would be in

 the form of clarification as to the effect of sub-section (2) to Section 6 of the RTI Act which does not require the information

 seeker to give any reason for making a request for the

 information. Clearly, ‘motive’ and ‘purpose’ for making the request

 for information is irrelevant, and being extraneous cannot be a

 ground for refusing the information. However, this is not to state

 that ‘motive’ and ‘purpose’ may not be relevant factor while

 applying the public interest test in case of qualified exemptions

 governed by the public interest test. It is in this context that this

 Court in Aditya Bandopadhyay (supra) has held that beneficiary Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 91 of 108 cannot be denied personal information relating to him. Similarly, in

 other cases, public interest may weigh in favour of the disclosure

 when the information sought may be of special interest or special

 significance to the applicant. It could equally be a negative factor

 when the ‘motive’ and ‘purpose’ is vexatious or it is a case of clear

 abuse of law. 80. In the RTI Act , in the absence of any positive indication as to the

 considerations which the PIO has to bear in mind while making a

 decision, the legislature had intended to vest a general discretion

 in the PIO to weigh the competing interests, which is to be limited

 only by the object, scope and purpose of the protection and the

 right to access information and in Section 11(1) , the ‘possible’

 harm and injury to the third party. It imports a discretionary value

 judgment on the part of the PIO and the appellate forums as it

 mandates that any conclusion arrived at must be fair and just by

 protecting each right which is required to be upheld in public

 interest. There is no requirement to take a fortiori view that one

 trumps the other. POINT NO. 5: JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE 81. Having dealt with the doctrine of the public interest under the RTI

 Act , we would now turn to examining its co-relation with Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 92 of 108 transparency in the functioning of the judiciary in matters of

 judicial appointments/selection and importance of judicial

 independence. 82. Four major arguments are generally invoked to deny third-party or

 public access to information on appointments/selection of judges,

 namely, (i) confidentiality concerns; (ii) data protection; (ii)

 reputation of those being considered in the selection process,

 especially those whose candidature/eligibility stands negated; and (iv) potential chilling effect on future candidates given the degree

 of exposure and public scrutiny involved.52 These arguments have

 become subject matter of considerable debate, if not outright

 criticism at the hands of jurists and authors.53 Yet there are those

 who have expressed cynicism about the ‘interview’ process

 undertaken by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) in

 recommending judges for appointment in South Africa, by pointing

 out the precariousness and the chilling effect it has on prospective

 candidates and consequently the best candidates often do not

 apply.54 Recently, the majority judgment of the Constitutional Court

52 See: How Transparent is Transparent Enough?: Balancing Access to Information Against Privacy
 in European Judicial Selections by Alberto Alemanno in Michal Bobek (ed.), Selecting Europe’s
 Judges, 2015 Edition. 53 Kate Malleson, ‘Parliamentary Scrutiny of Supreme Court Nominees: A View from the United

 Kingdom’ Osgoode Hall Law Journal (2007) 44, 557. 54 WH Gravett, ‘Towards an algorithmic model of judicial appointment: The necessity for radical

 revision of the Judicial Service Commission’s interview procedures’ 2017 (80) THRHR. Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 93 of 108 of South Africa in Helen Suzman Foundation v. Judicial Service

 Commission55 by relying upon Rule 53(1)(b) of the Uniform Rules

 of Court, South Africa,56 had directed the JSC to furnish the record

 of its deliberations, rejecting the contrary argument of candour and

 robustness as that of ‘timorous fainthearts’. Debating with

 candour, the Court observed, is not equivalent to expression of

 impropriety. The candidates, it was noticed, had undergone

 gruelling scrutiny in the public interviews, and therefore disclosure

 of deliberation would not act as a dampener for future candidates.

 More importantly, the Constitutional Court had distinguished the

 authority and power with the Courts under Rule 53 to access the

 deliberation record, with the different right to access information

 under the Promotion to Access to Information Act, 2000 (PAIA),

 which was the basis of the minority judgment for rejection of

 production of the JSC’s deliberation record. The majority held that

 PAIA and Rule 53 serve different purposes, there being a

55 Case 289/16 decided on 24th April 2018
56 Rule 53(1)(b) of the Uniform Rules of Court, South Africa states: 83. The United Kingdom’s Data Protection Act, 2018 grants class

 exemption to all personal data processed for the purpose of

 assessing a person’s suitability for judicial office, from certain

 rights including the right of the data subject to be informed,

 guaranteed under the European Union General Data Protection Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 95 of 108 Regulation being given effect to by the Data Protection Act.57

 Similarly, in the context of the European Union, opinions of ‘the Article 255 Panel’58 and ‘the Advisory Panel’59, entrusted with the

 task of advising on the suitability of candidates as judges to the

 Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of

 Human Rights are inaccessible to the public and their opinions

 have limited circulation, as they are exclusively forwarded to the

 representatives of governments of the member states in the case

 of European Union60 and the individual governments in the case of

 Council of Europe61, respectively. The Council of the European

 Union,62 for instance, in consultation with ‘Article 255’ Panel, has

 denied requests for public access to opinions issued by the

 Panel,63 in light of the applicable exceptions provided for in

 Regulation No 1049/200164. Such opinions, the Council has

57 Schedule 2, Part-2, Paragraph 14. 58 Article 255 , Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: 59 Set up under Resolution ‘Establishment of an Advisory Panel of Experts on Candidates for Election

 as Judge to the European Court of Human Rights’, CM/Res (2010) 26 adopted by the Committee of
 Ministers on 10 November 2010. 60 CJEU is the judicial branch of the European Union, administering justice in the 28 member states

 of the international organisation. 61 Comprising of 47 member European states, Council of Europe adopted the European Convention

 on Human Rights, which established ECtHR. 62 One of the seven constituent bodies of the European Union comprising of the ministers from the

 member states of the European Union. 63 Reply Adopted by the Council on 12 July 2016 to Confirmatory Application 13/c/01/16 pursuant to Article 7(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 for public access to all the opinions issued by the
 Panel provided for by Article 255 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
64 Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001

 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 96 of 108 observed, largely include personal data of the candidates, viz. factual elements concerning the candidates’ professional

 experience and qualifications and the Panel’s assessment of the

 candidate’s competences and, therefore, access to relevant

 documents is denied in order to protect the privacy and integrity of

 the individual.65 However, a part of these opinions which do not

 contain personal data and provide a description of the procedure

 adopted and criteria applied by the Panel have been released as

 “Activity Reports” in the framework of partial access to such

 information. Opinions that are unfavourable to the appointment of

 the candidates will be exempt from disclosure as they can hamper

 commercial interests of the candidates in their capacity as legal

 practitioners,66 whereas positive opinions are exempted from

 disclosure as such opinions can lead to comparison and public

 scrutiny of the most and least favoured qualities of the successful

 candidates, potentially interfering with the proceedings of the

 Court of Justice.67 Lastly, disclosure of opinions, the Council has

 observed, will be exempted if such disclosure could “seriously

65 Article 4(1)(b) , Regulation No 1049/2001
66 First indent of Article 4(2) , Regulation No 1049/2001
67 Second indent of Article 4(2) , Regulation No 1049/2001 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 97 of 108 undermine the institution's decision-making process, unless there

 is an overriding public interest in disclosure.”68 84. More direct and relevant in the Indian context would be the

 decision of this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record

 Association v. Union of India69 , where a Constitutional Bench of

 five judges had dealt with the constitutional validity of the National

 Judicial Appointments Commission. A concurring judgment had

 dealt with the aspect of transparency in appointment and transfer

 of judges and the privacy concerns of the judges who divulge their

 personal information in confidence, to opine as under: This is a rather sweeping generalisation which obviously
 does not take into account the privacy of a person who
 has been recommended for appointment, particularly as
 a Judge of the High Court or in the first instance as a
 Judge of the Supreme Court. The right to know is not a
 fundamental right but at best it is an implicit fundamental
 right and it is hedged in with the implicit fundamental
 right to privacy that all people enjoy. The balance
 between the two implied fundamental rights is difficult to
 maintain, but the 99th Constitution Amendment Act and
 the NJAC Act do not even attempt to consider, let alone
 achieve that balance. 954. It is possible to argue that information voluntarily
 supplied by a person who is recommended for
 appointment as a Judge might not have a right to
 privacy, but at the same time, since the information is
 supplied in confidence, it is possible to argue that it Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 99 of 108 ought not to be disclosed to third party unconcerned
 persons. Also, if the recommendation is not accepted
 by the President, does the recommended person have
 a right to non-disclosure of the adverse information
 supplied by the President? These are difficult questions
 to which adequate thought has not been given and
 merely on the basis of a right to know, the reputation of
 a person cannot be whitewashed in a dhobi-ghat.” 85. Earlier, the Constitution Bench of nine judges had in Second

 Judges’ Case, that is Supreme Court Advocates on Record

 Association and Others v. Union of India70 overruled the

 majority opinion in S.P. Gupta (supra) (the first Judge’s case) and

 had provided for primacy to the role of the Chief Justice of India

 and the collegium in the matters of appointment and transfer of

 judges. Speaking on behalf of the majority, J.S. Verma, J., had

 with regard to the justiciability of transfers, summarised the legal

 position as under: 86. That the independence of the judiciary forms part of our basic

 structure is now well established. S. P. Gupta (supra) (the first

 Judge’s case) had observed that this independence is one

 amongst the many other principles that run through the entire

 fabric of the Constitution and is a part of the rule of law under the

 Constitution. The judiciary is entrusted with the task of keeping the

 other two organs within the limits of law and to make the rule of

 law meaningful and effective. Further, the independence of

 judiciary is not limited to judicial appointments to the Supreme

 Court and the High Courts, as it is a much wider concept which

 takes within its sweep independence from many other pressures

 and prejudices. It consists of many dimensions including

 fearlessness from other power centres, social, economic and

 political, freedom from prejudices acquired and nurtured by the

 class to which the judges belong and the like. This wider concept

 of independence of judiciary finds mention in C. Ravichandran

 Iyer v. Justice A.M. Bhattacharjee and Others71 , High Court of

 Judicature at Bombay v. Shashikant S. Patil72 and Jasbir

 Singh v. State of Punjab73 . 71 (1995) 5 SCC 457
72 (1997) 6 SCC 339
73 (2006) 8 SCC 294 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 102 of 108 87. In Supreme Court Advocates’ on Record Association (2016)

 (supra) on the aspect of the independence of the judiciary, it has

 been observed: 88. We have referred to the decisions and viewpoints to highlight the

 contentious nature of the issue of transparency, accountability and

 judicial independence with various arguments and counter-

 arguments on both sides, each of which commands merit and

 cannot be ignored. Therefore, it is necessary that the question of

 judicial independence is accounted for in the balancing exercise. It

 cannot be doubted and debated that the independence of the

 judiciary is a matter of ennobled public concern and directly

 relates to public welfare and would be one of the factors to be

74Contributors: Professor Dr. Jutta Limbach, Professor Dr. Pedro Villalon, Roger Errera, The Rt Hon
Lord Lester of Herne Hill QC, Professor Dr. Tamara Morschakova, The Rt Hon Lord Justice Sedley,
Professor Dr. Andrzej Zoll. <http://www.interights.org/document/142/index.html> Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 104 of 108 taken into account in weighing and applying the public interest

 test. Thus, when the public interest demands the disclosure of

 information, judicial independence has to be kept in mind while

 deciding the question of exercise of discretion. However, we

 should not be understood to mean that the independence of the

 judiciary can be achieved only by denial of access to information.

 Independence in a given case may well demand openness and

 transparency by furnishing the information. Reference to the

 principle of judicial independence is not to undermine and avoid

 accountability which is an aspect we perceive and believe has to

 be taken into account while examining the public interest in favour

 of disclosure of information. Judicial independence and

 accountability go hand in hand as accountability ensures, and is a

 facet of judicial independence. Further, while applying the

 proportionality test, the type and nature of the information is a

 relevant factor. Distinction must be drawn between the final

 opinion or resolutions passed by the collegium with regard to

 appointment/elevation and transfer of judges with observations

 and indicative reasons and the inputs/data or details which the

 collegium had examined. The rigour of public interest in divulging

 the input details, data and particulars of the candidate would be

 different from that of divulging and furnishing details of the output, Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 105 of 108 that is the decision. In the former, public interest test would have

 to be applied keeping in mind the fiduciary relationship (if it

 arises), and also the invasion of the right to privacy and breach of

 the duty of confidentiality owed to the candidate or the information

 provider, resulting from the furnishing of such details and

 particulars. The position represents a principled conflict between

 various factors in favour of disclosure and those in favour of

 withholding of information. Transparency and openness in judicial

 appointments juxtaposed with confidentiality of deliberations

 remain one of the most delicate and complex areas. Clearly, the

 position is progressive as well as evolving as steps have been

 taken to make the selection and appointment process more

 transparent and open. Notably, there has been a change after

 concerns were expressed on disclosure of the names and the

 reasons for those who had not been approved. The position will

 keep forging new paths by taking into consideration the

 experiences of the past and the aspirations of the future. Questions referred to the Constitution Bench are accordingly

 answered, observing that it is not possible to answer these

 questions in absolute terms, and that in each case, the public

 interest test would be applied to weigh the scales and on balance

 determine whether information should be furnished or would be Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 106 of 108 exempt. Therefore, a universal affirmative or negative answer is

 not possible. However, independence of judiciary is a matter of

 public interest. CONCLUSIONS 89. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we dismiss Civil Appeal

 No.2683 of 2010 and uphold the judgment dated 12th January,

 2010 of the Delhi High Court in LPA No. 501 of 2009 which had

 upheld the order passed by the CIC directing the CPIO, Supreme

 Court of India to furnish information on the judges of the Supreme

 Court who had declared their assets. Such disclosure would not,

 in any way, impinge upon the personal information and right to

 privacy of the judges. The fiduciary relationship rule in terms of

 clause (e) to Section 8(1) of the RTI Act is inapplicable. It would

 not affect the right to confidentiality of the judges and their right to

 protect personal information and privacy, which would be the case

 where details and contents of personal assets in the declaration

 are called for and sought, in which event the public interest test as

 applicable vide Section 8(1)(j) and proviso to Section 11 (1) of the

 RTI Act would come into operation. 90. As far as Civil Appeal Nos. 10045 of 2010 and 10044 of 2010 are

 concerned, they are to be partly allowed with an order of remit to Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 & Ors. Page 107 of 108 the CPIO, Supreme Court of India to re-examine the matter after

 following the procedure under Section 11(1) of the RTI Act as the

 information relates to third parties. Before a final order is passed,

 the concerned third parties are required to be issued notice and

 heard as they are not a party before us. While deciding the

 question of disclosure on remit, the CPIO, Supreme Court of India

 would follow the observations made in the present judgment by

 keeping in view the objections raised, if any, by the third parties.

 We have refrained from making specific findings in the absence of

 third parties, who have rights under Section 11(1) and their views

 and opinions are unknown. The reference and the appeals are accordingly disposed of. ......................................CJI
 (RANJAN GOGOI)

 ........................................J.
 (N.V. RAMANA)

 ........................................J.
 (DR. D.Y. CHANDRACHUD)

 ........................................J.
 (DEEPAK GUPTA)

 ........................................J.
 (SANJIV KHANNA)
NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 13, 2019. REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 10044 OF 2010

CENTRAL PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER, … APPELLANT
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 VERSUS
SUBHASH CHANDRA AGRAWAL … RESPONDENT

 WITH

 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 10045 OF 2010
 AND
 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 2683 OF 2010

 JUDGMENT

N.V. RAMANA, J. “In the domain of human rights, right to privacy
 and right to information have to be treated as co- equals and none can take precedence over the
 other, rather a balance needs to be struck” 1. I have had the opportunity to peruse the erudite judgments of my

 learned brothers, who have reflected extensively on the

 importance of this case, concerning the aspect of privacy and right

 to information in detail. However, while concurring with the view

 of the majority, I feel the need to provide independent reasons with

 respect to certain aspects for coming to the aforesaid conclusion, 1 as this case has large ramification on the rights of an individual

 in comparison to the rights of the society. The aspect of

 transparency and accountability which are required to be

 balanced with right to privacy, has not been expounded by this

 Court anytime before, thereby mandating a separate opinion. 2. This case concerns the balance which is required between two

 important fundamental rights i.e. right to information and right

 to privacy. Often these two rights are seen as conflicting, however,

 we need to reiterate that both rights are two faces of the same

 coin. There is no requirement to see the two facets of the right in

 a manner to further the conflict, what is herein required is to

 provide balancing formula which can be easily made applicable to

 individual cases. Moreover, due to the fact of infancy in privacy

 jurisprudence has also contributed to the meticulous task we are

 burdened herein. 3. In this view, this case is before us to adjudicate whether the

 application dated 06.07.2009 (hereinafter referred to as “first

 application”) seeking information by the respondent, separate 2 applications dated 23.01.2009 (hereinafter referred to as “second

 application”) and 10.11.2007 (hereinafter referred to as “third

 application”) are maintainable or not. The first application

 concerns the information relating to complete correspondence

 between the Chief Justice of India and Mr. Justice R. Reghupati.

 The second application concerns the collegium file notings

 relating to the appointment of Justice H. L. Dattu, Justice A. K.

 Ganguly and Justice R. M. Lodha. The third application relates to

 information concerning declaration of assets made by the puisne

 judges of the Supreme Court to the Chief Justice of India and the

 judges of the High Courts to the Chief Justices of the respective

 High Courts. 4. The respondent/applicant submitted that the aforesaid three

 applications before the Central Public Information Officer of the

 Supreme Court of India (hereinafter “CPIO, Supreme Court of

 India”) came to be dismissed vide orders dated 04.08.2009,

 25.02.2009 and 30.11.2007 respectively. 5. Aggrieved by rejection of the first application the respondent

 approached the first appellate authority in appeal which was also 3 dismissed vide order dated 05.09.2009. Being aggrieved, the

 respondent further preferred a second appeal to the Central

 Information Commission [for short “CIC”]. The CIC allowed this

 appeal vide order dated 25.11.2009 and directed the disclosure of

 information sought. Aggrieved by the same, the CPIO, Supreme

 Court of India has preferred Civil Appeal No. 10045 of 2010. 6. Concerning the second application, the CPIO, Supreme Court of

 India, by order dated 25.02.2009 had denied the information

 sought therein. Being aggrieved, the respondent preferred the first

 appeal which came to be dismissed vide order dated 25.03.2009

 by the first appellate authority. The second appeal filed before the

 CIC was allowed vide order dated 24.11.2009. Aggrieved the CPIO,

 Supreme Court of India has preferred Civil Appeal No. 10044 of

 2010. 7. The third application was dismissed by the CPIO, Supreme Court

 of India vide order dated 30.11.2007 on the ground that the

 information was not held by the Registry of the Supreme Court of

 India. The first appeal was disposed of with an order directing the

 CPIO, Supreme Court of India to consider the question of 4 applicability of Section 6(3) of the Right to Information Act, 2005

 (hereinafter “the RTI Act ”). The CPIO vide order 07.02.2009

 required the respondent/applicant to approach the concerned

 public authority of the High Courts. Aggrieved the

 respondent/applicant directly approached the CIC in appeal

 which was allowed by order dated 06.01.2009. Aggrieved by the

 same the appellant filed Writ Petition (C) No. 288 of 2009 before

 the Delhi High Court. The Ld. Single Judge by order dated

 02.09.2009 directed the CPIO, Supreme Court of India to release

 the information sought by the respondent. Being aggrieved, the

 CPIO, Supreme Court of India filed Letter Patent Appeal No. 501

 of 2009 which was subsequently referred to a full Bench of the

 High Court. The full Bench by order dated 12.01.2010 dismissed

 the letter patent appeal. Aggrieved, CPIO, Supreme Court of India

 has filed Civil Appeal No. 2683 of 2010 before this Court. 8. In this context, all the three appeals were tagged by an order dated

 26.11.2010, a reference was made for constituting a larger Bench

 and accordingly it is before us. 5 9. Before we dwell into any other aspect a preliminary objections

 were taken by the appellants that this Bench could not have dealt

 with this matter considering the fact that this Court’s

 functionality had a direct impact on the same. We do not

 subscribe to the aforesaid opinion for the reason that this Court

 while hearing this matter is sitting as a Court of necessity. In the

 case of Election Commission of India v. Dr Subramaniam

 Swamy , (1996) 4 SCC 104, it was held as under: 10. In this light, appellants have to accept the decision of this Court

 which is the final arbiter of any disputes in India and also the

 highest court of constitutional matters. In this light, such

 objections cannot be sustained. 11. Before we proceed any further we need to have a brief reference to

 the scheme of RTI Act . The statement of objects and reasons

 envisage a noble goal of creating a democracy which is consisting

 of informed citizens and a transparent government. It also

 provides for a balance between effective government, efficient

 operations, expenditure of such transparent systems and

 requirements of confidentiality for certain sensitive information.

 It recognises that these principles are inevitable to create

 friction inter se and there needs to be harmonisation of such

 conflicting interests and there is further requirement to preserve 7 the supremacy of democratic ideal. The recognition of this

 normative democratic ideal requires us to further expound upon

 the optimum levels of accountability and transparency of efficient

 operations of the government. Under Section 2(f) , information is

 defined as ‘any material in any form including records, documents,

 memos, e-mails, opinions, advises, press releases, circulars,

 orders, logbooks, contracts, reports, papers, samples, models, data

 material held in any electronic form and information relating to any

 private body which can be accessed by a public authority under

 any other law for the time being in force.’ 12. The purport of this section was to cover all types of information

 contained in any format to be available under the ambit of the RTI

 Act . The aforesaid definition is further broadened by the definition

 of ‘record’ provided under Section 2(i) of the RTI Act. Right to

 Information as defined under Section 2(j) of the RTI Act means the

 right to information accessible under this Act which is held by or

 under the control of any public authority. 13. Chapter II of the RTI Act begins with a statement under Section 3 by proclaiming that all citizens shall have right to information 8 subject to the provisions of the RTI Act . Section 4 creates an

 obligation on public authorities to maintain a minimum standard

 of data which would be freely available for the citizens. Further

 this section also mandates proactive dissemination of data for

 informing the citizens by utilizing various modes and means of

 communications. Section 5 requires every public authority to

 designate concerned CPIO or SPIO, as the case may be for

 providing information to those who seeks the same. 14. Section 6 of the RTI Act provides for procedure required to be

 followed by a person who desires to obtain information under the RTI Act . Section 7 further provides the time frame within such

 designated officers are to decide the applications filed by the

 information seeker. For our purposes Section 8 deems relevant

 and is accordingly extracted hereunder –

 “8. Exemption from disclosure of
 information.—

 (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
 Act, there shall be no obligation to give any citizen,

 … (d) information including commercial confidence,
 trade secrets or intellectual property, the
 disclosure of which would harm the competitive 9 position of a third party, unless the competent
 authority is satisfied that larger public interest
 warrants the disclosure of such information; (e) information available to a person in his
 fiduciary relationship, unless the competent
 authority is satisfied that the larger public interest
 warrants the disclosure of such information; (j) information which relates to personal
 information the disclosure of which has not
 relationship to any public activity or interest, or
 which would cause unwarranted invasion of the
 privacy of the individual unless the Central Public
 Information Officer or the State Public Information
 Officer or the appellate authority, as the case may
 be, is satisfied that the larger public interest
 justifies the disclosure of such information: 15. It may be relevant to note Section 10 of the RTI Act which deals

 with severability of the exempted information. The mandate of the

 section is that where a request for access to information contains

 both exempted as well as non-exempted parts, if the non-

 exempted parts could be revealed, such parts which could be

 reasonably severed and can be provided as information under the

 Act. 16. Section 11 which is material for the discussion involved herein

 states as under - 10 “11. Third party information.—

(1) Where a Central Public Information Officer or the
State Public Information Officer, as the case may
be, intends to disclose any information or record, or
part thereof on a request made under this Act,
which relates to or has been supplied by a third
party and has been treated as confidential by that
third party, the Central Public Information Officer or
State Public Information Officer, as the case may
be, shall, within five days from the receipt of the
request, give a written notice to such third party of
the request and of the fact that the Central Public
Information Officer or State Public Information
Officer, as the case may be, intends to disclose the
information or record, or part thereof, and invite the
third party to make a submission in writing or
orally, regarding whether the information should be
disclosed, and such submission of the third party
shall be kept in view while taking a decision about
disclosure of information: 17. The mandate under Section 11 of the RTI Act enshrines the

 principles of natural justice, wherein, the third party is provided

 with an opportunity to be heard and the authority needs to

 consider whether the disclosure in public interest outweighs the

 possible harm in disclosure to the third party. It must be noted

 that the use of term ‘confidential’ as occurring under Section 11 ,

 subsumes commercial confidential information, other types of

 confidential information and private information. 18. We may not concentrate on other procedural section provided

 under the RTI Act as they do not have any bearing on the case

 concerned. 19. Having observed the scheme of the RTI Act we need to understand

 that right to information stems from Article 19(1)(a) of the 12 Constitution which guarantees freedom of expression. Accordingly, this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Raj Narain ,

 ( 1975) 4 SCC 428 and S.P. Gupta v. Union of India , (1981)

 Supp. (1) SCC 87, held that a citizen cannot effectively exercise

 his freedom of speech and expression unless he/she is informed

 of the governmental activities. Our country being democratic, the

 right to criticise the government can only be effectively

 undertaken if accountability and transparency are maintained at

 appropriate levels. In view of the same, right to information can

 squarely said to be a corollary to the right to speech and

 expression. 20. Firstly, the appellants have contended that the information are

 not held with the Registry of the Supreme Court, rather the Chief

 Justice of India is holding the aforesaid information concerning

 the exchanges between Mr. Justice R. Reghupati and the then

 Chief Justice of India. In this context, the term ‘held’ acquires

 important position. The term ‘held’ usually connotes the power,

 custody, or possession with the person. However, the mandate of

 the Act requires this term to be interpreted wherein the

 association between held and the authority needs to be taken into 13 consideration while providing a meaning for the aforesaid term.

At this juncture, we need to observe the case of University of New

Castle upon Tyne v. Information Commissioner and British

Union for Abolition of Vivisection, [2011] UKUT 185 AAC,

wherein the upper tribunal has held as under –

 “‘Hold’ is an ordinary English word. In
 our judgment it is not used in some
 technical sense in the Act. We do not
 consider that it is appropriate to define
 its meaning by reference to concepts
 such as legal possession or bailment, or
 by using phrases taken from court rules
 concerning the obligation to give
 disclosure of documents in litigation. Sophisticated legal analysis of its
 meaning is not required or appropriate. However, it is necessary to observe that
 ‘holding’ is not a purely physical
 concept, and it has to be understood
 with the purpose of the Act in mind. Section 3(2)(b) illustrates this: an
 authority cannot evade the
 requirements of the Act by having its
 information held on its behalf by some
 other person who is not a public
 authority. Conversely, we consider that
 s.1 would not apply merely because
 information is contained in a document
 that happens to be physically on the
 authority’s premises: there must be an
 appropriate connection between the
 information and the authority, so that it
 can be properly said that the
 information is held by the authority. For
 example, an employee of the authority 14 may have his own personal information
 on a document in his pocket while at
 work, or in the drawer of his office desk; that does not mean that the information
 is held by the authority.” 21. From the aforesaid it can be concluded that a similar

 interpretation can be provided for term ‘held’ as occurring under Section 2(j) of the Act. Therefore, in view of the same the term

 ‘held’ does not include following information – 1. That is, without request or arrangement, sent to or
 deposited with a public authority which does not hold itself
 out as willing to receive it and which does not
 subsequently use it; 2. That is accidentally left with a public authority; 3. That just passes through a public authority; 4. That ‘belongs’ to an employee or officer of a public
 authority but which is brought by that employee or officer
 onto the public authority’s premises.1

 Having clarified the aforesaid aspect we are of the opinion that the

 nature of information in relation to the authority concerned

 requires to be seen. The fact that the information sought in the

 instant matter is in custody with the Chief Justice of India as he

 is the administrative head of the Supreme Court, squarely require 1 Phillip Coppel, Information Rights Law and Practice (4 th Edn. (2014)), Pg. 362. 15 us to hold that the concerned authority is holding the information

 and accordingly the contention of the appellants does not have

 any merit. 22. The appellants have argued that the information with respect to

 the assets declared with the Chief Justice of India or Chief

 Justices of respective High Courts are held in confidence,

 fiduciary capacity; moreover, the aforesaid information is private

 information of the judges which cannot be revealed under the RTI

 Act . 23. The exemptions to right to information as noted above are

 contained under Section 8 of the RTI Act. Before we analyse the

 aforesaid provision, we need to observe basic principles,

 concerning interpretation of exemption clauses. There is no doubt

 it is now well settled that exemption clauses need to be construed

 strictly. They need to be given appropriate meaning in terms of

 the intention of the legislature [see Commissioner of Customs

 (Import) v. Dilip Kumar & Ors. , (2018) 9 SCC

 40; Rechnungshof v. Österreichischer Rundfunk and Ors., C-

 465/00]. 24. At the cost of repetition we note that the exemption of right to

 information for confidential information is covered under Section

 8(1)(d) , exemption from right to information under a fiduciary

 relationship is covered under Section 8(1)(e) and the exemption

 from private information is contained under Section 8(1)(j) of the

 RTI Act. 25. The first contention raised by the appellants is that the aforesaid

 information is confidential, therefore the same is covered under

 the exemption as provided under Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act.

 The aforesaid exemption originates from a long time of judge made

 law concerning breach of confidence (which are recently termed

 as misuse of private information). 26. Under the classic breach of confidence action, three requirements

 were necessary for bringing an action under this head. These

 conditions are clearly mentioned in the opinion of Megarry, J.,

 in Coco vs. Clark, [1968] FSR 415; wherein, the conditions

 are first, the information itself, i.e. ‘information is required to have

 necessary quality about confidence of the same’; second, ‘the

 information must have been imparted in circumstances importing 17 an obligation of confidence’; third, ‘there must be unauthorized

 use of information which will be detriment to the party

 communicating’. 27. Breach of confidence was not an absolute right and public

 interest, incorporated from long time under the common law

 jurisprudence. This defence of public interest can be traced to

 initial case of Gartside v. Outram, (1856) 26 LJ Ch (NS) 113,

 wherein it was held that there is no confidence as to disclosure in

 iniquity. This iniquity was later expanded by Lord Denning

 in Fraser v. Evans, [1969] 1 QB 349, wherein the iniquity was

 referred as merely as an example of ‘justice cause or excuse’ for a

 breach of confidence. This iniquity was widened further in Initial

 Service v. Putterill, [1968] 1 QB 396, wherein it was held that

 iniquity covers any misconduct of nature that it ought to be

 disclosed to others in the public interest. In this line of precedents

 Thomas Ungoed, J., in Beloff v. Pressdram, [1973] 1 All ER 24,

 noted that iniquity would cover ‘any matter, carried out or

 contemplated, in breach of country’s security or in breach of law

 including statutory duty, fraud or otherwise destructive of the 18 country or its people and doubtless other misdeeds of similar

 gravity.’ 28. Eventually the language of iniquity was shaken and discourse on

 public interest took over as a defence for breach of confidence [See

 Lion Laboratories v. Evans, [1985] QB 526]. It would be

 necessary to quote Lord Goff in Her Majesty’s Attorney General

 v. The Observer Ltd. & Ors., [1991] AC 109, wherein he noted

 that “it is now clear that the principle [of iniquity] extends to

 matters of which disclosure is required in public interest”. 29. The aforesaid expansion from the rule of iniquity to public interest

 defence has not caught the attention of Australian courts wherein,

 Justice Gummow, in Corrs Pavey Whiting and Byrne v.

 Collector of Customs, (1987) 14 FCR 434 and Smith Kline and

 French Laboratories [Australia] Ltd. v. Department of

 Community Services and Health, (1990) 22 FCR 73, reasoned

 that public interest was “picturesque if somewhat imprecise” and

 “not so much a rule of law as an invitation to judicial idiosyncrasy

 by deciding each case on ad-hoc basis as to whether, on the facts 19 overall, it is better to respect or to override the obligation of

 confidence”. 30. Even in England there has been a shift of reasoning from an

 absolute public interest defence to balancing of public interest. At

 this point we may observe the case of Woodward v. Hutchins,[1977] 1 WLR 760, wherein it was observed “It is a

 question of balancing the public interest in maintaining the

 confidence against the public interest in knowing the truth”. 31. Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act has limited the action of defence of

 confidentiality to only commercial information, intellectual

 property rights and those which are concerned with maintaining

 the competitive superiority. Therefore, aforesaid section is only

 relatable to breach of confidence of commercial information as

 classically developed. Although there are examples wherein

 commercial confidentiality are also expanded to other types of

 breach of confidential information, however, under Section 8(1)(d) does not take into its fold such breach of confidential information

 actions. 20 32. Coming to other types of confidentiality, we need to note that the

 confidentiality cannot be only restricted to commercial

 confidentiality, rather needs to extend to other types of

 confidentialities as well. [Duchess of Argyll v. Duke of Argyll,

 1967 Ch 302] Under the RTI Scheme such other confidential

 information are taken care under Section 11 of the RTI Act. The

 language and purport under Section 11 extends to all types of

 confidentialities, inclusive of both commercial and other types of

 confidentialities. The purport of this Section is that an

 opportunity should be provided to third party, who treats the

 information as confidential. The ‘test of balancing public interest’

 needs to be applied in cases of confidential information other than

 commercial information as well, under Section 11 of the RTI Act,

 as discussed. In this light, the concerned third parties need to be

 heard and thereafter the authorities are required to pass order as

 indicated herein. 33. Further, the appellants have contended that the information

 sought herein relating to the third party are covered under

 exemptions as provided in Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act i.e. private

 information. 21 34. The development from breach of confidence to misuse of private

 information/privacy claim was gradual. There was shift from the

 focus on relationship to whether the information itself had a

 requisite confidential quality [refer to Her Majesty’s Attorney

 General case (supra)]. This shift in focus resulted in the evolution

 of misuse of private information or privacy claim, from its

 predecessor of confidentiality. In the case of Campbell v. M.G.N. ,

 [2004] UKHL 22, wherein the breach of misuse of private

 information evolved as cause of action. The modification which

 happened in the new cause of action is that the initial confidential

 relationship was not material, which was earlier required under

 the breach of confidence action. The use of term confidential

 information was replaced with more natural descriptive term

 information in private. The change from breach of confidence

 which was an action of equity, to misuse of private information,

 which was a tort provided more structural definitiveness and

 reduced the discretionary aspect. 35. The purport of the Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act is to balance

 privacy with public interest. Under the provision a two steps test 22 could be identified wherein the first step was: (i) whether there is

 a reasonable expectation of privacy, and (ii) whether on an

 ultimate balancing analysis, does privacy give way to freedom of

 expression? We should acknowledge that these two tests are very

 difficult to be kept separate analytically. FIRST STEP 36. The first step for the adjudicating authority is to ascertain

 whether the information is private and whether the information

 relating the concerned party has a reasonable expectation of

 privacy. In Murray v. Express Newspaper plc, [2009] Ch 481, it

 was held as under 37. From the aforesaid discussion we can note that there are certain

 factors which needs to be considered before concluding whether

 there was a reasonable expectation of privacy of the person

 concerned. These non-exhaustive factors are; 1. The nature of information. 2. Impact on private life. 3. Improper conduct. 4. Criminality 5. Place where the activity occurred or the information
 was found. 6. Attributes of claimants such as being a public figure, a
 minor etc and their reputation. 7. Absence of consent. 8. Circumstances and purposes for which the information
 came into the hands of the publishers. 9. Effect on the claimant. 10. Intrusion’s nature and purpose. These non-exhaustive factors are to be considered in order to

 come to a conclusion whether the information sought is private or

 does the persons has a reasonable expectations of privacy. In

 certain cases we may conclude that there could be certain

 information which are inherently private and are presumptively 24 protected under the privacy rights. These informations include

 gender, age and sexual preferences etc. These instances need to

 be kept in mind while assessing the first requirement under the

 aforesaid test. 38. If the information is strictly covered under the aforesaid

 formulation, then the person is exempted from the right to

 information unless ‘the public interest test’ requires to trump the

 same. SECOND STEP 39. Having ascertained whether the information is private or not, a

 judge is required to adopt a balancing test to note whether the

 public interest justifies discloser of such information under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. The term ‘larger public interest’

 needs to be understood in light of the above discussion which

 points that a ‘balancing test’ needs to be incorporated to see the

 appropriateness of discloser. There are certain basic principles

 which we need to keep in mind while balancing the rights which

 are relevant herein. 25 40. That the right to information and right to privacy are at an equal

 footing. There is no requirement to take an a priori view that one

 right trumps other. Although there are American cases, which

 have taken the view that the freedom of speech and expression

 trumps all other rights in every case. However, in India we cannot

 accord any such priority to the rights. 41. The contextual balancing involves ‘proportionality test’. [See K

 S Puttaswamy v. Union of India , (2017) 10 SCC 1]. The test is

 to see whether the release of information would be necessary,

 depends on the information seeker showing the ‘pressing social

 need’ or ‘compelling requirement for upholding the democratic

 values’. We can easily conclude that the exemption of public

 interest as occurring under Section 8(1)(j) requires a balancing

 test to be adopted. We need to distinguish two separate concepts

 i.e. “interest of the public” and “something in the public interest.”

 Therefore, the material distinction between the aforesaid concepts

 concern those matters which affect political, moral and material

 welfare of the public need to be distinguished from those for

 public entertainment, curiosity or amusement. Under Section

 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act requires us to hold that only the former is an 26 exception to the exemption. Although we must note that the

 majority opinion in K S Puttaswamy (supra) has held that the

 data privacy is part of the right to privacy, however, we need to

 note that the concept of data protection is still developing

 [refer Google Spain v. AEPD, C/131/12; Bavarian

 Lager v Commission, [2007] ECR II-4523]. As we are not

 concerned with the aforesaid aspects, we need not indulge any

 more than to state that there is an urgent requirement for

 integrating the principles of data protection into the right to

 information jurisprudence. 42. Coming to the aspect of transparency, judicial independence and

 the RTI Act , we need to note that there needs to be a balance

 between the three equally important concepts. The whole bulwark

 of preserving our Constitution, is trusted upon judiciary, when

 other branches have not been able to do so. As a shield, the

 judicial independence is the basis with which judiciary has

 maintained its trust reposed by the citizens. In light of the same,

 the judiciary needs to be protected from attempts to breach its

 independence. Such interference requires calibration of 27 appropriate amount of transparency in consonance with judicial

 independence. 43. It must be kept in the mind that the transparency cannot be

 allowed to run to its absolute, considering the fact that efficiency

 is equally important principle to be taken into fold. We may note

 that right to information should not be allowed to be used as a

 tool of surveillance to scuttle effective functioning of judiciary.

 While applying the second step the concerned authority needs to

 balance these considerations as well. 44. In line with the aforesaid discussion, we need to note that

 following non-exhaustive considerations needs to be considered

 while assessing the ‘public interest’ under Section 8 of the RTI

 Act- a. Nature and content of the information

 b. Consequences of non-disclosure; dangers and benefits
 to public

 c. Type of confidential obligation. d. Beliefs of the confidant; reasonable suspicion

 e. Party to whom information is disclosed 28 f. Manner in which information acquired

 g. Public and private interests

 h. Freedom of expression and proportionality. 45. Having ascertained the test which is required to be applied while

 considering the exemption under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act, I

 may note that there is no requirement to elaborate on the factual

 nuances of the cases presented before us. Accordingly, I concur

 with the conclusions reached by the majority. ..........................J.

 (N.V. Ramana)

NEW DELHI; November 13, 2019. 29 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 Central Public Information Officer, …Appellant
Supreme Court of India

 Versus

Subhash Chandra Agarwal …Respondent

 WITH Civil Appeal No. 10045 of 2010 AND WITH Civil Appeal No. 2683 of 2010 1 JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

 INDEX

A Introduction

B Reference to the Constitution Bench

C Submissions of Counsel

D Relevant statutory provisions

E S P Gupta, candour and class immunity

F Judicial independence

 F.1 Judicial accountability

G Fiduciary relationship

H The right to privacy and the right to know

I Conclusion

J Directions 2 PART A

A Introduction

The backdrop 1. This batch of three civil appeals1 raises questions of constitutional

importance bearing on the right to know, the right to privacy and the

transparency, accountability and independence of the judiciary. 2. In the first of the appeals2 (―the appointments case‖), the Central Public

Information Officer3 of the Supreme Court of India challenges an order dated 24

November 2009 of the Central Information Commission4. The order directs the

CPIO to provide information sought by the respondent in application under the Right to Information Act 20055. The respondent, in an application dated 23

January 2009 sought copies of the correspondence exchanged between

constitutional authorities together with file notings, relating to the appointment of

Justice H L Dattu, Justice A K Ganguly and Justice R M Lodha (superseding the

seniority of Justice A P Shah, Justice A K Patnaik and Justice V K Gupta). The

appellant declined to provide the information sought in the application on the

ground that the Registry of the Supreme Court does not deal with matters

pertaining to the appointment of judges, and appointments of judges to the higher

judiciary are made by the President of India, according to procedure prescribed

by law. The first appellate authority rejected the appeal on the ground that the

information sought by the respondent was not covered within the ambit of 1 Civil Appeal no 10044/2010, Civil Appeal no 10045/2010 and Civil Appeal no 2683/2010 2 Civil Appeal no 10044 of 2010 3 ―CPIO‖ 4 ―CIC‖ 5 ― RTI Act ‖ 3 PART A Section 2 (f) 6 and (j)7 of the RTI Act . The respondent preferred a second appeal

before the CIC. On 24 November 2009, the CIC directed the appellant to provide

the information sought by the respondent. The appellant has moved this Court

under Article 136 of the Constitution challenging the decision of the CIC ordering

disclosure. 3. In the second of the three appeals8 (―the assets case‖), the appellant

challenges a judgment dated 12 January, 2010 of a Full Bench of the Delhi High

Court upholding the orders of the Single Judge9 dated 2 September 2009 and the

CIC dated 6 January 200910 directing the disclosure of information. On 10

November 2007, the respondent filed an application seeking a copy of the

resolution dated 7 May 1997 of the judges of the Supreme Court requiring every

sitting judge, and all future judges upon assuming office, to make a declaration of

assets in the form of real estate or investments held in their names or the names

of their spouses or any person dependant on them to the Chief Justice of the

Court within a reasonable time. The respondent also requested ―information on

any such declaration of assets etc to respective Chief Justices in State‖. While

the appellant provided a copy of the resolution dated 7 May 1997, the CPIO

declined (by an order dated 30 November 2007) to provide information

concerning the declaration of assets by judges of the Supreme Court and the 6 Section 2(f) – ―Information‖ means any material in any form, including records, documents, memos, e-mails,
opinions, advices, press releases, circulars, orders, logbooks, contracts, reports, papers, samples, models, data
material held in any electronic form and information relating to any private body which can be accessed by a
public authority under any other law for the time being in force. 7 Section 2(j) – ―Right to Information‖ means the right to information accessible under this Act which is held by or
under the control of any public authority and includes the right to— (i) inspection of work, documents, records; (ii)
taking notes, extracts or certified copies of documents or records; (iii) taking certified samples of material; (iv)
obtaining information in the form of diskettes, floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any other electronic mode or
through printouts where such information is stored in a computer or in any other device. 8 Civil Appeal no 2683 of 2010 9 The CPIO, Supreme Court of India v Subhash Chandra Agarwal & Anr , Writ Petition (C) 288/2009 10 Appeal no CIC/WB/A/2008/00426 4 PART A

High Court on the ground that the Registry of the Supreme Court did not hold it.

The information pertaining to the declaration of assets by High Court judges, the

appellant stated, were in the possession of the Chief Justices of the High Courts.

The first appellate authority remanded the matter back to the appellant for

transfer of the RTI application to the High Courts under Section 6(3) 11 . The

appellant declined to transfer the RTI application to the CPIOs of the High Courts

on the ground that when the respondent filed the RTI application, he was aware

that the information with respect to the declaration of assets by the judges of the

High Court was available with the High Courts which formed distinct public

authorities. On 6 January 2009, the CIC held in the second appeal that the

information concerning the judges of the Supreme Court was available with its

Registry and that the appellant represented the Supreme Court as a public

authority. Therefore, the appellant was held to be obliged to provide the

information under the RTI Act unless, the disclosure of information was

exempted by law. The CIC held that the information sought by the respondent

was not covered under the exemptions in clauses (e) or (j) of Section 8(1) 12 and

directed the appellant to provide the information sought by the respondent. The 11 Section 6 (3) - Where an application is made to a public authority requesting for an
information,— (i) which is held by another public authority; or (ii) the subject matter of which is more closely connected with the
functions of another public authority,
the public authority, to which such application is made, shall transfer the application
or such part of it as may be appropriate to that other public authority and inform the
applicant immediately about such transfer: PART A

appellant instituted a writ petition13 before the Delhi High Court. On 2 September

2009, a Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the petition holding, inter alia,

that the declaration of assets furnished by the judges of the Supreme Court to

the Chief Justice of India and its contents constituted ―information‖, subject to the

provisions of the RTI Act . The Single Judge held that: (i) judges of the Supreme

Court hold an independent office; (ii) there exist no hierarchies in judicial

functions; (iii) the Chief Justice of India does not hold such ―information‖ in a

fiduciary capacity; and (iv) the information sought by the respondent was not

exempt under Section 8 (1)(e) . In a Letters Patent Appeal, the Full Bench of the

Delhi High Court upheld the decision of the Single Judge. The appellant has

challenged the decision of the Full Bench. 4. In the third civil appeal (―the undue influence case‖), the appellant has

challenged the order of the CIC dated 24 November 2009 14, by which the

appellant was directed to provide information sought by the respondent in his RTI

application. On 6 July, 2009, the respondent filed an RTI application on the basis

of a newspaper report seeking the complete correspondence exchanged with the

Chief Justice of India in regards to a Union Minister having allegedly approached

Justice R Raghupati of the Madras High Court, through a lawyer to influence a

judicial decision. The application sought a disclosure of the name of the Union

Minister and the lawyer, and of the steps taken against them for approaching the

judge of the Madras High Court for influencing the judicial decision. On 4 August

2009, the appellant rejected the request on the ground that no such information

was available with the Registry of the Supreme Court. The first appellate 13 Writ Petition (C) 288/2009 14 Appeal no CICWB/A/2009/000859 6 PART B

authority rejected the appeal. The second appeal before the CIC led to a

direction on 24 November 2009, to provide the information sought, except

information sought in questions 7 and 8 on recourse taken to the in-house

procedure. The appellant approached this Court challenging the decision of the

CIC. B Reference to the Constitution Bench 5. On 26 November 2010, a two judge Bench of this Court directed the

Registry to place the present batch of appeals before the Chief Justice of India

for constituting a Bench of appropriate strength and framed the following

substantial questions of law: 6. On 17 August 2016, a three judge Bench referred these civil appeals to a

Constitution Bench for adjudication. 7. Mr K K Venugopal, Attorney General for India appearing on behalf of the

appellant made the following submissions: The provisions of the RTI Act must be construed in a manner which makes

 it consistent with constitutional values including the independence of the

 judiciary; (ii) Information of which disclosure is sought under Section 2 (f) of the RTI

 Act, includes only that information which is in a physical form and which is

 already in existence and accessible to a public authority under law. The

 judge can decide to disclose assets voluntarily and place relevant

 information in the public domain. A third party cannot seek information on

 the disclosure of assets of a judge which does not exist in the public

 domain; (iii) The decision of this court in S P Gupta is based on a factually distinct

 situation where disclosure of correspondence regarding the non- 15 1981 Supp SCC 87 8 PART C

 appointment of an additional judge was ordered on the ground that the

 judge was a party to the proceeding before the Court. Further, the decision

 established a restriction on the disclosure of information to third parties; (iv) The correspondence and file notings with respect to recommendations for

 appointments of judges to the higher judiciary falls under a ―class of

 information‖ that is highly confidential. Disclosure will result in damage to

 the institution and adversely affect the independence of the judiciary; (v) The process of concurrence by the members of the Collegium requires

 free and frank discussion on the character, integrity and competence of

 prospective appointee judges in order to ensure that the most suitable

 judges are appointed. It is in the public interest to uphold candour in

 matters of appointment and transfer of judges and to avoid unnecessary

 litigative debate by third parties. Disclosure of such information would

 undermine the independence of the judiciary and adversely impact the

 candour or uninhibited expression of views by the Collegium.

 Independence of judiciary is not limited to independence from executive

 influence. It is multi-dimensional and also independence from other

 pressure and prejudices including fearlessness from power centres,

 economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished

 by the class to which judges belong ( C Ravichandran Iyer v Justice A M

 Bhattacharjee16 ); 16 (1995) 5 SCC 457 9 PART C (vi) Information sought regarding the assets and liabilities of judges and

 correspondence and file notings relating to character, conduct, integrity

 and competence of a judge includes certain ―personal information‖ and is

 hence, exempt under Section 8 (1)(j) of the RTI Act; (vii) The correspondence and file notings that form the basis of the decision

 under Article 124 (2) of the Constitution includes information received from

 third parties in a fiduciary capacity. The information is held by the Chief

 Justice of India as a result of disclosure by third parties who give the

 information in confidence, complete good faith, integrity and fidelity.

 Therefore, disclosure of such information is exempt under Section 8 (1)(e) ; (viii) The disclosure of correspondence relating to conduct, character, integrity

 and competence of a judge may cause irreparable loss to their reputation,

 violate their right to privacy and adversely affect their functioning. There is

 also no remedy available to a judge for the comments made in the

 appointment process as the Chief Justice of India along with other judges

 are protected from civil/criminal proceedings under Section 3(1) of the

 Judges (Protection) Act 1985. While regulating the disclosure of

 information, the Supreme Court is required to balance the right of an

 individual to reputation and privacy under Article 21 and the right to

 information of third-party parties under Article 19(1)(a). The doctrine of

 proportionality has to be applied to resolve the conflict between the two

 rights and the right to reputation and privacy of a judge should prevail over

 the right to information of third parties; and 10 PART C (ix) Legislation and rules with respect to disclosure of assets and liabilities of

 public servants do not provide for placing such information in the public

 domain or granting third party access to such information. The judiciary is

 seeking self-regulation by providing a voluntary disclosure of assets and

 liabilities and it is up to the Supreme Court to disclose such information.

 No third party can seek information which is not in the public domain. 8. On the contrary, Mr Prashant Bhushan, learned Counsel appearing on

behalf of the respondent made the following submissions: Record Assn v Union of India17 , the decision of this Court vis-à-vis the

 disclosure of correspondence in respect of the appointment process

 remains unaffected. If S P Gupta has to be overruled, this could be only

 done by a Bench comprising of more than seven judges; (ii) This Court has interpreted Article 19(1)(a) to include the right to

 information under the ambit of free speech and expression even before the RTI Act was enacted by the Parliament. Disclosure of the information

 sought in the present batch of cases is an essential part of the freedom of

 speech and expression guaranteed in Article 19(1)(a) and involves a

 significant public interest; (iii) Free flow of information to citizens is necessary, particularly in matters

 which form part of public administration for ensuring good governance and 17 (1993) 4 SCC 441 11 PART C

 transparency. The fundamental right of free speech and expression

 includes every citizen‘s right to know about assets, criminal antecedents

 and educational backgrounds of candidates contesting for public office. To

 cover public acts with a veil of secrecy is not in the interest of the public

 and may lead to oppression and abuse by, and distrust of, public

 functionaries. The lack of transparency, accountability and objectivity in

 the collegium system does not enhance the credibility of the institution.

 Disclosure of the information sought, on the other hand, would promote

 transparency and prevent undue influence over the judiciary; (iv) The claim of class privilege or class immunity to the correspondence

 between the Chief Justice of India and the Law Minister was rejected in S

 P Gupta. After the enactment of the RTI Act , information otherwise held by

 a public authority cannot be excluded from disclosure unless it falls under

 the exemptions laid down in Section 8 or relates to an institution excluded

 under Section 2418 of the RTI Act. When information regarding a judge is 18 Section 24 - Act not to apply to certain organisations
(1)Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the intelligence and security organisations specified in the Second
Schedule, being organisations established by the Central Government or any information furnished by such
organisations to that Government: Provided that the information pertaining to the allegations of corruption and
human rights violations shall not be excluded under this sub-section: Provided further that in the case of
information sought for is in respect of allegations of violation of human rights, the information shall only be
provided after the approval of the Central Information Commission, and notwithstanding anything contained in section 7 , such information shall be provided within forty-five days from the date of the receipt of request.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule by including therein
any other intelligence or security organisation established by that Government or omitting therefrom any
organisation already specified therein and on the publication of such notification, such organisation shall be
deemed to be included in or, as the case may be, omitted from the Schedule.
(3) Every notification issued under sub-section (2) shall be laid before each House of Parliament.
(4) Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to such intelligence and security organisation being organisations
established by the State Government, as that Government may, from time to time, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify: Provided that the information pertaining to the allegations of corruption and human rights
violations shall not be excluded under this sub-section: During the drafting of the Right to Information Bill, the argument that

 disclosure will deter consultees from expressing themselves freely and

 fairly and that the dignity and reputation of people would be tarnished was

 rejected. The argument of candour does not fall under any of the

 exemptions under the RTI Act and therefore, this disclosure of information

 cannot be excluded from the purview of the RTI Act ; (vi) The disclosure of assets of judges is warranted in the larger public

 interest. It cannot be argued that information regarding the assets of

 judges, who are public functionaries, is personal information having no

 relationship with any public activity or interest. Hence, the information

 sought is not exempt under Section 8 (1)(j) ; (vii) There exists no fiduciary relationship between those who are vested with

 the responsibility of determining whether an appointee is suitable for

 elevation as a judge and the appointee herself. The duty of a public

 servant is to act in the interest of the public and not in the interest of

 another public servant. The entire process of consultation and making

 information available to the members of the collegium regarding

 credentials and the suitability of the appointee is a matter of public interest. 13 PART D

 Further, when judges act in their official capacity in compliance with the

 1997 resolution and disclose their assets, it cannot be said that the Chief

 Justice of India acts in a fiduciary capacity for the judges. The Chief

 Justice of India and other members of the collegium discharge official

 duties vested in them by the law and the information sought is not exempt

 under Section 8(1)(e) . Even if some part of the information is personal,

 that part can be severed after due examination on a case to case basis

 under Section 10; and (viii) The argument that the independence of the judiciary will be affected

 prejudicially due to the disclosure of information is misconceived. The

 independence of the judiciary means independence from the legislature

 and the executive and not from the public. It is a constitutional and legal

 right of the respondent to access information and identify the persons who

 have attempted to compromise the functioning of the judiciary. Disclosure

 of such information is essential for the citizenry to maintain their faith in the

 independence of the judiciary. 9. The rival submissions fall for our consideration. D Relevant statutory provisions 10. For the purpose of the present dispute it is necessary to analyse the

relevant provisions contained in the statutory framework of the RTI Act . Sections

2 and 3 read: … (h) ―public authority‖ means any authority or body or
institution of self-government established or constituted,- (a) by or under the Constitution; (b) by any other law made by Parliament; (c) by any other law made by State Legislature; (d) by notification issued or order made by the appropriate
 Government, and includes any- (i) body owned, controlled or substantially financed; (ii) non-Government Organisation substantially
 financed,
Directly or indirectly by finds provided by the appropriate
Government; … (j) ―right to information‖ means the right to information
accessible under the Act which is held by or under the control
of any public authority and includes the rights to – (i) inspection of work, documents, records; (ii) taking notes, extracts, or certified copies of
 documents or records; (iii) taking certified samples of material; (iv) obtaining information in the form of diskettes,
 floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any other
 electronic mode or through printouts where such
 information is stored in a computer or in any other
 device; … 3. Right to information. – Subject to the provisions of this Act,
all citizens shall have the right to information. 15 PART D 11. Both the terms ―public authority‖ and ―information‖ have been broadly

defined. Section 2(j) which defines the ―right to information‖ stipulates that the

information accessible under the RTI Act is held by or under the control of any

―public authority‖, which is defined in Section 2(h) of the RTI Act. Section 3 of the

Act confers on all citizens the substantive right to seek information covered within

the ambit of the Act, subject to its provisions. The remaining scheme of the RTI

Act operationalises the substantive right conferred by Section 3 . Section 4 imposes a statutory duty on public authorities to create and maintain a record of

the activities stipulated therein to ensure that these records are available to

applicants. Section 6 empowers an individual to file a request with the relevant

Central Public Information Officer (―CPIO‖) or State Public Information Officer

(―SPIO‖) or their corresponding Assistant Officers (collectively hereafter

―Information Officer‖). Section 7 empowers the Information Officer to either

provide the information sought or reject the application for reasons set out in Section 8 and 9 . 12. For an authority to be covered under the RTI Act , it must be a ―public

authority‖ as defined under Section 2(h) of the Act. ―Public authority‖ is defined

as any authority or body or institution or self-government which falls within the

ambit of any of the enumerated provisions in that sub-section. The Supreme

Court of India is established by virtue of Article 124(1) of the Constitution of India.

Similarly, Article 214 of the Constitution stipulates that there shall be a High

Court for each state. In terms of Section 2(h)(a) , a body or an institution which is

established or constituted by or under the Constitution would be a public

authority. But virtue of being established by the Constitution, the Supreme Court 16 PART D

and the High Courts would fall within the ambit of ―public authority‖ in Section

2(h) of the Act. 13. Section 2(e)(ii) expressly stipulates that the competent authority means

the Chief Justice of India in the case of the Supreme Court and Section 2(e)(iii) stipulates that the competent authority in the case of a high Court is the Chief

Justice of that Court. Significantly, Article 124 of the Constitution of India

stipulates that there shall be a Supreme Court of India consisting of a Chief

Justice of India and other judges. The office of the Chief Justice of India is not

distinct from the Supreme Court of India. The Supreme Court is constituted by

virtue of the Constitution and consists of judges, of which the Chief Justice is the

head. This however, does not mean that the Supreme Court and the Chief

Justice are two separate ‗public authorities‘ within the RTI Act . 14. The term information under Section 2(f) has been defined broadly to

include ―any material in any form‖. The word ‗including‘ denotes the intention of

the Parliament to provide a non-exhaustive list of materials that fall within the

ambit of the sub-clause. The sub-clause includes information relating to any

private body ―which can be accessed by a public authority under any law for the

time being in force‖. The import of this phrase is that information relating to a

third party is included only where the requisite pre-conditions of any law in force

to access such information is satisfied. The right sought to be exercised and

information asked for should fall within the scope of ‗information‘ and ‗right to

information‘ as defined under the Act. The information sought must be in

existence and must be held or under the control of the public authority. 17 PART D 15. Section 8(1) begins with a non-obstante phrase ―Notwithstanding anything

contained in this Act‖. The import of this phrase is that clause (1) of Section 8 carves out an exception to the general obligation to disclose under the RTI Act .

Where the conditions set out in any of the sub-clauses to clause (1) of Section 8 are satisfied, the Information Officer is under no obligation to provide information

to the applicant. The scope of the exception and its applicability to the present

dispute shall be discussed in the course of the judgment. 16. Section 2219 contains a non-obstance clause and stipulates that the RTI

Act has an overriding effect over laws. The import of this provision is to impart

priority to the salient objectives of the Act and ensure that where information is

held by or is under the control of a public authority, such information must be

furnished to the applicant notwithstanding any prohibition in any other law in

force at that time. It is pertinent to state that Section 22 does not obviate legal

restrictions that apply to a public authority to the access to any information which

is clarified by the use of the phrase ―which can be accessed by a public authority

under any law for the time being in force‖ in Section 2(f) . 19 22. Act to have overriding effect. – The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 (19 of 1923), and any other law for the time
being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. 17. Relevant to the present controversy, is the question whether the decision

of this Court in S P Gupta v Union of India20 is a binding precedent on the

issues raised. Mr Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent contended that the points for determination that arise in the present

case have been answered by the seven judge Bench in S P Gupta where this

Court ordered the disclosure of the correspondence between the Chief Justice of

India, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Law Minister which concerned the non-

appointment of an additional judge for a full term of two years. Counsel

contended that this Court held that the public interest in disclosure outweighed

the potential harm resulting from disclosure and that a free and open democratic

society mandated the disclosure of correspondences concerning the appointment

process of judges. 18. Opposing the submission, Mr K K Venugopal, learned Attorney General for

India appearing on behalf of the appellant, urged that the decision of this Court in

S P Gupta was based on a factually distinguishable situation. The Court in that

case was concerned with the disclosure of the correspondence concerning the

appointment process for the purpose of adjudicating the case before it. Moreover

the judge whose appointment was in issue was a party to the case. The court did

not address the potential harm to public interest by the disclosure of

correspondence in all circumstances. The Attorney General contended that the 20 (1982) 2 SCR 365 19 PART E

decision assessed the right to know in a passing observation and contrary to the

submission of the respondent, it established a restriction on the disclosure of

personal information. 19. In S P Gupta, this Court was concerned with two issues: (i) the initial

appointment of additional judges and their reappointment on the expiry of their

terms; and (ii) the transfer of High Court judges and the Chief Justices of the High

Courts. Among the issues involved in the proceedings, one concerned the

disclosure of the correspondence exchanged between the Chief Justice of India,

the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Law Minister concerning the decision to grant

an extension in the tenure to Justice O N Vohra and Justice S N Kumar as

additional judges of the Delhi High Court by a period of three months. It was

contended that Justice O N Vohra should have been appointed as a permanent

judge and that Justice S N Kumar should have been reappointed as an additional

judge for the complete tenure of two years upon the expiry of their initial tenure.

During the course of the proceedings, their terms expired and a decision was

communicated by the Central Government to not renew their terms. An

application was filed to contend that the withholding of the re-appointment was

mala fide and unconstitutional. Both former judges were impleaded as

respondents. While Justice O N Vohra did not appear in the proceedings, Justice

S N Kumar appeared through counsel and contended that the decision of the

Central Government to not reappoint him for a complete term of two years was

vitiated since it was reached without full and effective consultation with the Chief

Justice of India. 20 PART E 20. The government resisted the disclosure of the correspondence and urged

that as it formed a part of the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers to the

President of India, the court was precluded from ordering disclosure by virtue of Article 74(2)21 of the Constitution. It was also contended that the correspondence

related to the ‗affairs of the state‘ and its disclosure was precluded by virtue of Section 12322 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872. 21. An interim order dated 16 October 1981 ordered the disclosure of the

correspondence to the Court. In its final judgment dated 30 December 1981, the

Court, by a majority, rejected the contention of the Central Government and

upheld the disclosure of the correspondence exchanged between the Chief

Justice of India, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Law Minister concerning the

decision to not continue Justice S N Kumar as an additional Judge of the Delhi

High Court for another full term. 22. Mr K K Venugopal, learned Attorney General for the Union of India sought

to distinguish the decision in S P Gupta by contending that the order of

disclosure was made in the specific context of Sections 123 and 16223 of the

Indian Evidence Act and in respect of judicial proceedings to which Justice S N

Kumar was a party. Hence he urged that the decision does not establish the duty

to disclose the correspondence in all circumstances. Justice S N Kumar had 21 ―The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to the President shall not be
inquired into in any court.‖ 22 ―123. Evidence as to affairs of State.—No one shall be permitted to give any evidence derived from
unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, except with the permission of the officer at the head of
the department concerned, who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit.‖ 23 ―162. Production of documents.—A witness summoned to produce a document shall, if it is in his possession
or power, bring it to court, notwithstanding any objection which there may be to its production or to its
admissibility. The validity of any such objection shall be decided on by the court.
The court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to matters of State, or take other evidence to
enable it to determine on its admissibility….‖ 21 PART E

actively participated in the proceedings before the Court and information

regarding his non-appointment was sought during the course of the proceedings

to adjudicate upon the contention that there was no effective consultation

between the Central Government and the Chief Justice of India. The balancing of

interests in that case was between the public harm resulting from disclosure and

the public interest in the administration of justice (by securing complete justice for

the litigant before the court) which, it is urged, is materially different from the

present case. 23. In S P Gupta, this Court, by an interim order directed the disclosure of the

file notings only in respect of the non-renewal of the term of Justice S N Kumar.

Justice O N Vohra had chosen to not appear in or participate in the proceedings

before the court. As no relief was sought by the latter before the Court, the Court

held that the correspondence pertaining to him was not relevant to the

controversy. Consequently, the Union of India was not required to disclose it.

Justice PN Bhagwati (as he then was) noted the comparably distinct role of

Justice S N Kumar in the proceedings in the following terms: 24. In its final judgment, the Court first rejected the contention that the

correspondence formed part of the advice tendered to the President by the

Council of Ministers. The Court noted that while the advice tendered by the

Council of Ministers to the President is information protected under Article 74(2) ,

the principal question was whether the correspondence between the Chief

Justice of India, Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and the Law Minister

formed part of the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers to the President so

as to preclude its disclosure by virtue of Article 74(2). The Court rejected this

contention and held that any advice tendered by the Council of Ministers would

be based on the views expressed by the two Chief Justices and their views would

not form part of the advice tendered. In this view, the material on the basis of

which the Council of Ministers formed a view and subsequently tendered the

same to the President would not constitute advice protected under Article 74(2). Justice Bhagwati held: ―61…The advice is given by the Council of
 Ministers after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High
 Court and the Chief Justice of India. The two Chief Justices
 are consulted on ―full and identical facts‖ and their views are
 obtained and it is after considering those views that the
 Council of Ministers arrives at its decision and tenders its
 advice to the President. The views expressed by the two
 Chief Justices precede the formation of the advice and merely
 because they are referred to in the advice which is ultimately
 tendered by the Council of Ministers, they do not necessarily
 become part of the advice. What is protected against
 disclosure under clause (2) or Article 74 is only the advice
 tendered by the Council of Ministers…But the material on
 which the reasoning of the Council of Ministers is based and
 the advice is given cannot be said to form part of the advice.‖ 25. The Court then proceeded to the claim against disclosure under Section

123 of the Indian Evidence Act. It held that where protection from disclosure is 23 PART E

sought under Section 123 on the ground that the correspondence relates to the

affairs of the state, the court, by virtue of Section 162, is called upon to carry out

a balancing task between ―the detriment to the public interest on the

administrative or executive side which would result from the disclosure of the

document against the detriment to the public interest on the judicial side which

would result from non-disclosure of the document though relevant to the

proceeding‖. It held that the court balances the competing aspects of public

interest and decides which should prevail in the particular case before it. A claim

for non-disclosure, in this view, would be sustainable where the disclosure of the

document would be injurious to the public interest to a greater degree than the

harm caused to the administration of justice by non-disclosure. Analysing the

claim in the context of Section 123, Justice Bhagwati noted: Candour 29. The Court addressed the contention that the reason for protecting a certain

class of documents is that they concern decision making at the highest level of

government and only complete freedom from public gaze will enable freedom of

expression and candour amongst government functionaries. In this view, public

scrutiny was contended to adversely affect the ability of the participants in the

decision-making process to express their opinion in a free and frank manner. The

Court, however, rejected the contention that candour and frankness justify the

grant of complete immunity against disclosures. Justice PN Bhagwati (as he then

was) addressed the argument founded on candour in the following terms: appointment of a High Court Judge or a Supreme Court
Judge and transfer of a High Court Judge are extremely
important matters affecting the quality and efficiency of the
judicial institution and it is therefore absolutely essential that
the various constitutional functionaries concerned with these
matters should be able to freely and frankly express their
views in regard to these matters…We have no doubt that
high level constitutional functionaries like the Chief
Justice of a High Court and the Chief Justice of India
would not be deterred from performing their
constitutional duty of expressing their views boldly and
fearlessly even if they were told that the correspondence
containing their views might subsequently be
disclosed…We have already dealt with the argument
based on the need for candour and frankness and we
must reject it in its application to the case of holders of
high constitutional offices like the Chief Justice of a High
Court and the Chief Justice of India. Be it noted — and of
this we have no doubt — that our Chief Justices and
Judges are made of sterner stuff; they have inherited a
long and ancient tradition of independence and
impartiality…‖
 (Emphasis supplied) 28 PART E

The Court held that though candour may be a factor in determining what set of

communications require protection, the measure of protection depends whether,

on a balance of all competing interests, public interest favours disclosure or

secrecy. While the Court noted that candour may be a relevant factor to prevent

disclosure in some circumstances, it expressly rejects its weight as a relevant

factor when it comes to constitutional functionaries such as the Chief Justice of

India and the Chief Justices of the High Courts. Constitutional functionaries are

bound to the oath of their office to discharge their duties in a fair manner in

accordance with the principles enshrined in the Constitution. It cannot be

countenanced that public gaze or subsequent disclosure will detract an individual

from discharging their duty in an effective manner true to the dignity and ethic

associated with their office. Candour and frankness cannot be the reason to

preclude disclosures of correspondence between constitutional functionaries

which concern the appointment process of judges. Class immunity 30. The second argument rejected in S P Gupta and relevant to the present

case is the contention that the correspondence between ―the Law Minister or

other high level functionary of the Central Government, the Chief Justice of the

High Court, the Chief Minister or the Law Minister of the State Government and

the Chief Justice of India in regard to appointment or non-appointment of a High

Court Judge or a Supreme Court Judge or transfer of a High Court Judge and the

notings made by these constitutional functionaries in that behalf‖, belong to a

protected class of documents. It was contended that the disclosure of these 29 PART E

documents would be prejudicial to national interest and the dignity of the

judiciary. In this view, the court is not required to assess the effects of the

disclosure of correspondence in a particular case, as all correspondence of such

nature belongs to a special class which is exempt from disclosure. In this view,

disclosure is not precluded because of the specific contents of the documents,

but because of its membership of a certain class of documents that require non-

disclosure. 31. Justice Bhagwati, with whom five other judges agreed, held that a claim for

class immunity is an ‗extraordinary claim‘ which is granted as a ‗highly

exceptional measure‘ as such broad claims are contradictory to and destructive

of the concept of an open government. He cautioned against blanket immunity

and lay emphasis on the commitment to an open and transparent government in

the following terms: 32. A claim of immunity from disclosure for any document is subject to the

controlling factor of public interest – a determination informed by the commitment

to an open and transparent government: 33. The approach adopted by Justice Bhagwati in S P Gupta, with which we

are in agreement provides a bright line standard for the Court on the approach

that must be adopted when answering questions of disclosure in regards to the

appointment process. The principal consideration will always be that of public

interest. Any balancing must be carried out in the context of our commitment to

the transparency and accountability of our institutions. The specific content of

public interest and its role in the balancing process will be explored in the course

of the judgment. It was contended by the respondents that the decision of this Court in S P Gupta

did not deal with the trade-off between disclosure and judicial independence. It is

necessary to turn to this issue. F Judicial independence 34. Mr K K Venugopal, learned Attorney General for India appearing on behalf

of the appellant, contended that the disclosure of file notings between

constitutional functionaries which concern the appointment process will erode the

independence of the judiciary, which is part of the basic structure of the

Constitution. It was further contended that disclosures will result in damage to the

institution and adversely impact the independence of the judiciary. It is necessary

to briefly analyse the contours of this concept in assessing the contention urged. 34 PART F 35. At the outset, it must be noted that while the term ‗independence of the

judiciary‘ is not new, its meaning is still imprecise.24 There may be a debate over

various facets of judicial independence: for instance, from whom and to do what

is independence engrafted. Broadly speaking, judicial independence entails the

ability of judges to adjudicate and decide cases without the fear of retribution.

Judicial independence and the ability of judges to apply the law freely is crucial to

the rule of law. In his seminal work ―Cornerstone of a Nation‖, Granville Austin states: 36. Article 124(2) guarantees a security of tenure for judges. Article 124(4) stipulates that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from their

office except on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. The proviso to

clause (2) of Article 125 guarantees that a judges‘ privileges, allowances and

rights in respect of leave of absence or pension shall not be varied to their 24 MP Jain, Securing the Independence of the Judiciary – The Indian Experience, Indian International and
Comparative Law Review, p. 246 25 Granville Austin, Cornerstone of a Nation (1999), p. 164 26 Arghya Sengupta, Independence and Accountability of the Indian Higher Judiciary (2019), p. 17 35 PART F

disadvantage after their appointment. Article 129 empowers the Supreme Court

to punish for the contempt of itself. Article 145 empowers the Supreme Court to

make rules for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the Court.

Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 146 stipulate that the Chief Justice of India or such

other Judge or officer of the Court, as may direct, shall be responsible for the

appointments and prescription of rules governing the conditions of service of the

officers and servants of the Supreme Court. Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 229 assign responsibility to the Chief Justice of a High Court or such other judge or

officer of the court, as they may direct, in respect of matters of appointment and

prescription of rules governing the conditions of service of the officers and

servants of a High Court. 37. Article 215 empowers the High Court to punish for contempt of itself. Article 217 provides security of tenure. The proviso to clause (2) of Article 221 stipulates that the allowances of a Judge of a High Court as well as the rights in

respect of leave of absence or pension shall not be varied to their disadvantage

after their appointment. Article 227(2) stipulates that each High Court may, by

virtue of its power of superintendence under Article 227(1): (i) call for returns

from certain courts and tribunals, (ii) make and issue general rules and prescribe

forms for regulating the practice and proceedings of such courts; and (iii)

prescribe forms in which books, entries and accounts shall be kept by the officers

of any such courts. 38. These provisions reflect constitutional safeguards to ensure the

independence of the judiciary and guarantee to it the freedom to function 36 PART F

independent of the will of the legislature and executive. Supriya Routh discusses

these provisions in the following words: PART F 39. The above provisions are indicative of the intention of the founders of the

Constitution to create a strong foundation to secure the independence of the

judiciary. This also marked a strong departure from the ‗pleasure doctrine‘ under

the pre-constitutional colonial framework. Under the Government of India Act,

1935 the judges of the High Court held office during the pleasure of the Crown.

Through Article 217(1) of the Constitution of India, tenure at the pleasure of the

Crown was substituted with a fixed tenure subject to limited exceptions. Justice

Srikrishna (speaking in non-judicial capacity) elucidates upon the importance of

this tradition in the following words: PART F 40. The need for transparency and accountability has been emphasised in

decisions of this Court. In Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association

v Union of India31 (‗NJAC‘ ), a Constitution Bench of this Court struck down the

99th Constitutional Amendment Act setting up the National Judicial Appointments

Commission as ultra vires the Constitution by a four-to-one majority. Significantly,

Justice Kurian Joseph, in his separate concurring opinion and Justice

Chelameswar, in his dissenting opinion, pointed to the lack of transparency and

accountability in the manner of making appointments to the judiciary. Justice

Kurian Joseph observed: 41. The collegium system has come under immense criticism for its lack of

transparency. As early as in S P Gupta, this Court acknowledged that disclosure

would lead to bona fide consideration and deliberation and proper application of

mind on the part of the judges.33 Even in NJAC, the need for transparency and

accountability has not been denied in any of the separate opinions. The 99th

Constitutional Amendment was struck down on the ground that it would

adversely affect the independence of the judiciary by giving the executive a

32 th
 ―An Independent Judiciary‖ – speech delivered by Ms. Justice Ruma Pal at the 5 V.M. Tarkunde
Memorial Lecture, November 10, 2011. S.P. Gupta v. Union of India , 1981 Supp SCC 87, 85 (per Bhagwati J.) 40 PART F

definitive say in the appointment of judges. The dilution of the judiciary‘s

autonomy in the context of making judicial appointments was deemed to be

unconstitutional. However, the need to reduce the opacity and usher in a regime

of transparency in judicial appointments has not been denied and has in fact

been specifically acknowledged by some of the learned Judges. 42. Scholars caution that while judicial independence is important, one should

not lose sight of the larger goals and purposes which judicial independence is

intended to serve. Charles Gardner Geyh considers such ends to include

upholding of the rule of law, preserving the separation of governmental powers,

and promotion of due process, amongst many others. Therefore, he believes that

if judges are free to disregard such ends in their decision making, judicial

independence serves no purpose. He notes thus: 43. Lorne Sossin argues that transparency is necessary to ensure the public

perception of the judiciary as independent. In the context of judicial

appointments, he believes that appointments may happen on a proper, well-

justified, substantive understanding of judicial ‗merit‘. However, in order for the

same to be truly independent, they must include within themselves the

transparency of the criteria and openness of the process. He notes that: 44. The fault that was identified with the purported framework under Article

124A of the Constitution of India for ensuring transparency was the lack of 36 Lorne Sossin, ‗Judicial Appointment, Democratic Aspirations, and the Culture of Accountability‘, 58 University
of New Brunswick Law Journal 11 (2008) 42 PART F

adequate safeguards for protecting the right to privacy of the appointees.37 This

was in the context of the deliberations of the NJAC falling within the purview of

the RTI Act . Justice Madan B Lokur in his separate concurring opinion noted that

the right to know was circumscribed by the right to privacy of individuals:38

 ―555. The balance between transparency and confidentiality
 is very delicate and if some sensitive information about a
 particular person is made public, it can have a far-reaching
 impact on his/her reputation and dignity. The 99th
 Constitution Amendment Act and the NJAC Act have not
 taken note of the privacy concerns of an individual. This is
 important because it was submitted by the learned Attorney
 General that the proceedings of NJAC will be completely
 transparent and any one can have access to information that
 is available with NJAC. This is a rather sweeping
 generalisation which obviously does not take into account the
 privacy of a person who has been recommended for
 appointment, particularly as a Judge of the High Court or in
 the first instance as a Judge of the Supreme Court. The right
 to know is not a fundamental right but at best it is an implicit
 fundamental right and it is hedged in with the implicit
 fundamental right to privacy that all people enjoy. The
 balance between the two implied fundamental rights is difficult
 to maintain, but the 99th Constitution Amendment Act and the
 NJAC Act do not even attempt to consider, let alone achieve
 that balance.‖

None of these failings of the specific framework envisaged by the 99th

Constitutional Amendment Act however can be interpreted as a denial of the

importance of disclosure, transparency and accountability in the context of

judicial appointments or of its constitutionality. They only point to the need for a

balance between the right to know and the right to privacy, the specific contours

of which will be explored shortly. 37 NJAC., 953 38 Id 43 PART F 45. Judicial independence cannot be used as a byword for avoiding the

accountability and criticism that accompanies transparency: 47. Judicial independence is defined by the existence of conditions which

enable a judge to decide objectively, without succumbing to pressures and

influences which detract from the course of justice. To be independent a judge

must have the ability to decide ‗without fear or favour, affection or ill will‘. The

Constitution creates conditions to secure the independence of judges by setting

out provisions to govern appointments, tenure and conditions of service. These

are provisions through which the conditions necessary to secure judicial

independence are engrafted as mandatory institutional requirements. These are

intrinsic elements of our constitutional design. But constitutional design must be

realised through the actual working of its functionaries. Mechanisms which

facilitate independence are hence a crucial link in ensuring that constitutional

design translates into the realisation of judicial independence. Facilitative

mechanisms include those which promote transparency. For true judicial 45 PART F

independence is not a shield to protect wrong doing but an instrument to secure

the fulfilment of those constitutional values which an independent judiciary is

tasked to achieve. Judicial independence is hence not a carte blanche to

arbitrary behaviour. Where the provisions of the Constitution secure a standard

of judicial independence for free and impartial adjudication, the independence

guaranteed by the Constitution must be employed in a manner that furthers the

objective for which it was secured. In the quest for a balance between the

freedom guaranteed and the responsibility that attaches to the freedom, judicial

independence and judicial accountability converge. 48. Accountability, defined narrowly, is ―a relationship between an actor and a

forum, in which the actor has an obligation to explain and to justify his or her

conduct, the forum can pose questions and pass judgment, and the actor may

face consequences‖40. The narrow conception of accountability however suffers

from a straight-jacket view devoid of general guiding principles. Professor

Stephen Burbank stipulates: 49. Article 124(6) and Article 219 of the Constitution of India prescribe that

every person who is appointed to be a judge of the Supreme Court or the High

Court respectively, shall, prior to entering office, make and subscribe to an Oath

or affirmation set out in the Third Schedule of the Constitution. The Oath for the

office reads: will‖, contained in the present Constitution in Form VIII did not find place in the 47 PART F

oath prescribed42 in Schedule IV to the Government of India Act, 1935 . Added to

the present Constitution, these are words with significance. The framers of the

Constitution were alive to the need for the exercise of judicial power in

accordance with the ethics of judicial office. The express inclusion of these words

indicates that persons entering judicial office bind themselves to the principles

inherent in the effective discharge of the judicial function, in conformity with the

rule of law and the values of the Constitution. 50. The oath of office postulates that the judge shall discharge the duties of

the office without fear or favour, affection or ill-will. Any action that abridges the

discharge of judicial duty in conformity with the principles enunciated in the oath

negates the fundamental precept underlying the conferment of judicial power.

Commenting on the significance of the inclusion of the term in its application to

judges of the High Courts in Union of India v Sankalchand Himatlal43, Justice

PN Bhagwati (as he then was) held: But this indeed is only a restatement of a principle which attaches to all judicial

office. The principles embodied in the oath furnish a non-derogable obligation

upon the person affirming it to abide by its mandate. 51. On 21 November 1993, the then Chief Justice of India constituted a

Committee to draft and circulate a statement on the values that must be reflected

in judicial life. In December 1999, the Conference of Chief Justices of all High

Courts resolved and adopted the Restatement of Values of Judicial Life. The

statement serves as a guiding light of the values that must be followed in

conformity with the dignity and ethic required of judicial life. The statement, apart

from mentioning 16 values of judicial life concludes that the values enumerated

are not exhaustive but illustrative of what is expected of a judge. The Bangalore

Principles of Judicial Conduct 2002 which were adopted at the Round Table

Meeting of Chief Justices held at the Peace Palace, The Hague in 2002 defined

six main values as an inherent element of the judicial system: independence,

impartiality, integrity, propriety, equality and competence, and diligence. 52. Judicial accountability also stems from the principle that the entrustment

and exercise of power in a constitutional democracy is not unfettered. The

Constitution confers upon judges with the power to dispense justice, which is a

foundational value in the Preamble to the Constitution. Judicial power, conferred

in public interest as a necessary element in the administration of justice cannot

be used to achieve extraneous ends. The private interests of an individual have 49 PART F

no nexus to the discharge of the official duties of a judge. Professor TRS Allen

stipulates: 53. Adjudicators in robes are human and may be pre-disposed to the failings

that are inherently human. But the law demands that they must aspire to a

standard of behaviour that does not condone those failings of a human persona

in the discharge of judicial duties. Recognition of the fallibility of individuals who

work constitutional institutions and of the need for safeguards to prevent the

abuse of power found articulation in the Constitutional Assembly Debates. Dr B R

Ambedkar, K T Shah, H V Kamath, S Nagappa, Hussain Imam, Pandit Lakshmi

Kanta Maitra, Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar, B Pocker Sahib Bahadur, Z H Lari, A K

Ghosh, and R K Sidhva all emphasized the possibility of human error in the

inherently human institutions that the Constitution envisaged. This idea was

given its clearest articulation in by Dr B R Ambedkar when he reminded us that: 44 54. To equate the actions of an individual which have no nexus with the

discharge of official duties as a judge with the institution may have dangerous

portents. The shield of the institution cannot be entitled to protect those actions

from scrutiny. The institution cannot be called upon to insulate and protect a

judge from actions which have no bearing on the discharge of official duty. It is

for this reason that judicial accountability is an inherent component of the justice

delivery system. Accountability is expected to animate the day to day functioning

of the courts. Judges are required to issue reasoned orders after affording an

opportunity to both sides of a dispute to present their case. Judicial ethic requires

that a judge ought to recuse herself from hearing a case where there is a

potential conflict of interest. These illustration norms serve to further the

democratic ideal that no constitutional functionary is above the rule of law. 55. In the view explored above, judicial accountability traces itself from both

the oath of office and the nature of the judicial power itself. In a broader sense

however, there is a significant public interest in ensuring the smooth and efficient

functioning of the justice delivery system, consistent with the requirements of

justice in individual cases. The legitimacy of the institution which depends on

public trust is a function of an assurance that the judiciary and the people that

work it are free from bias and partiality. Mark Tushnet explores the idea of judicial

accountability in the following terms: PART F

stipulated in the Act to enquire into the alleged misbehavior of incapacity. If the

report of the Committee finds that a judge is guilty of misbehavior or suffers from

any incapacity, each house of the Parliament votes on the motion in accordance

with Article 124(4) of the Constitution. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha must

both pass a motion to impeach the judge with a majority of not less than two-

thirds of the members of the house present and voting. The stringent procedure

adopted by the Parliament for the impeachment of a judge draws a balance

between ensuring the independence of judges from political will and ensuring the

accountability of judges for their actions. 56. Judicial independence does not mean the insulation of judges from the

rule of law. In a constitutional democracy committed to the rule of law and to the

equality of its citizens, it cannot be countenanced that judges are above the law.

The notion of a responsible judiciary furthers the ideal for which an independent

judiciary was envisaged. It is the exercise of the decision making authority

guaranteed by judicial independence in a just and responsible manner, true to

the ethos of judicial office that sub-serves the founding vision of the judiciary.

Professor Stephen Burbank has characterized judicial independence and

accountability as "different sides of the same coin‖.48Professor Charles Gardner

has stated that: 57. The executive in a cabinet form of government in accountable to the

legislature. Ministers of the government are elected members of the legislature.

Collectively, the government is accountable to the legislature as an institution

and through the legislature to the people. Unlike the elected representatives of

the people, judges of the district and higher judiciary are not elected. The

accountability which the political process exacts from members of the legislature

is hence distinct from the accountability of judges who are accountable to the

trust which is vested in them as independent decision makers. Making them

accountable in the discharge of that trust does not dilute their independence. The

independence of judges is designed to protect them from the pressures of the

executive and the legislature and of the organised interests in society which may

detract judges from discharging the trust as dispassionate adjudicators. Scrutiny

and transparency, properly understood are not placed in an antithesis to

independence. They create conditions where judges are protected against

unwholesome influences. Scrutiny and transparency are allies of the

conscientious because they are powerful instruments to guard against influences

which threaten to suborn the judicial conscience. To use judicial independence 54 PART G

 as a plea to refuse accountability is fallacious. Independence is secured by

accountability. Transparency and scrutiny are instruments to secure

accountability. G Fiduciary relationship 58. The appellant argued that the information about the assets of judges is

exempt from disclosure, by virtue of Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act which casts a

fiduciary duty on the Chief Justice of India to hold the asset declarations in

confidence. It is argued by the respondent that judges, while declaring their

assets, do so in their official capacity in accordance with the 1997 resolution and

not as private individuals. It is urged that the process of information gathering

about the assets of the judges by the Chief Justice of India, is in his official

capacity and therefore, no fiduciary relationship exists between them. 59. In order to determine whether the Chief Justice of India holds information

with respect to asset declarations of judges of the Supreme Court in a fiduciary

capacity, it is necessary to assess the nature of the relationship and the power

dynamics between the parties. Justice Frankfurter of the United States Supreme

Court in SEC v Chenery Corp50 , while determining the question whether officers

and directors who manage a holding company in the process of reorganisation

occupy positions of trust, stated: 60. Black‘s Law Dictionary52, defines ―fiduciary relationship‖ thus: 61. In CBSE v Aditya Bandopadhyay55 , a two judge Bench of this Court

while discussing the nature of fiduciary relationships relied upon several

decisions and explained the terms ―fiduciary‖ and ―fiduciary relationship‖ thus: 62. In RBI v Jayantilal N Mistry56, a two judge Bench of this Court reiterated

the observations made in CBSE v Aditya Bandopadhyay and held that RBI did

not place itself in a fiduciary relationship with other financial institutions by virtue

of collecting their reports of inspections, statements of the banks and information

related to the business. It was held that the information collected by the RBI was

required under law and not under the pretext of confidence or trust: 63. The Canadian Supreme Court in the case of Hodgkinson v Simms57,

discussed the term ‗fiduciary‘ thus: 64. Dr Paul Finn in his comprehensive work on ―Fiduciary Obligations‖58,

describes a fiduciary as someone who has an obligation to act ―in the interests

of‖ or ―for the benefit of‖ their beneficiaries in some particular matter. For a

person to act as a fiduciary they must first have bound themselves in some way

to protect and further the interests of another.59 Where such a position has been

assumed by one party then that party's position is potentially of a fiduciary.60 The

Federal Court of Australia in the case of Australian Sec & Inv Comm‘n v

Citigroup Global Markets Australia Pty Ltd61 has held: 65. A fiduciary must be entrusted with a degree of discretion (power) and must

have freedom to act without resorting to prior approval of the beneficiary.62 The

greater the independent authority to be exercised by the fiduciary, the greater the

scope of fiduciary duty.63 The person so entrusted with power is required to

determine how to exercise that power.64 Fiduciaries are identified by ascendancy,

power and control on the part of the stronger party and therefore, a fiduciary

relationship implies a condition of superiority of one of the parties over the

other.65 It is not necessary that the relationship has to be defined as per law, it

may exist under various circumstances, and exists in cases where there has

been a special confidence placed in someone who is bound to act in good faith

and with due regard to the interests of the one reposing the confidence. Such is

normally the case with, inter alia, attorney-client, agent-principal, doctor-patient,

parent-child, trustees-beneficiaries66, legal guardian-ward67, personal

representatives, court appointed receivers and between the directors of company

and its shareholders. In Needle Industries (India) Ltd v Needle Industries 62 Tamar Frankel, ―Fiduciary Law‖ Oxford University Press, 2011 63 Scott, Austin W. "The Fiduciary Principle." California Law Review 37, no. 4 (1949): 539-55. 64 Tamar Frankel, ―Fiduciary Law‖ Oxford University Press, 2011 65 Ken Coghill, Charles Sampford and Tim Smith ―Fiduciary Duty and the Atmospheric Trust‖, Ashgate (2012) 66 Section 88 , Indian Trusts Act 1882 67 Section 20 , Guardians and Wards Act 1890 60 PART G

Newey (India) Holding Ltd68 and Dale & Carrington Invt (P) Lt v P K

Prathaphan69, this Court held that the directors of the company owe a fiduciary

duty to its shareholders. In P V Sankara Kurup v Leelavathy Nambier70 , this

Court held that an agent and power of attorney can be said to owe a fiduciary

relationship to the principal. 66. Other structural properties of the fiduciary relationship are dependence

and vulnerability, where the beneficiary is dependent upon the fiduciary to

exercise power and impact the practical interests.71 Once a fiduciary relationship

is established, fiduciary duties include the duty of loyalty and duty of care

towards the interests of the beneficiaries.72 67. From the discussion above, it can be seen that a fiduciary is someone who

acts for and on behalf of another in a particular matter giving rise to a relationship

of trust and confidence. A fiduciary relationship implies a condition of superiority

of one of the parties over the other, where special confidence has been reposed

in an individual to act in the best interests of another. 68. The dispute before us is whether the Chief Justice of India while exercising

its official function and holding asset declaration information of the judges acts in

a fiduciary capacity. The Full Bench of the Delhi High Court agreed with the

learned single judge and held: 68 Tamar Frankel, ―Fiduciary Law‖ Oxford University Press, 2011 61 PART G

 ―The CJI cannot be a fiduciary vis-à-vis Judges of the
 Supreme Court. The Judges of the Supreme Court hold
 independent office, and there is no hierarchy, in their judicial
 functions, which places them at a different plane than the CJI.
 The declarations are not furnished to the CJI in a private
 relationship or as a trust but in discharge of the constitutional
 obligation to maintain higher standards and probity of judicial
 life and are in the larger public interest. In these
 circumstances, it cannot be held that the asset information
 shared with the CJI, by the Judges of the Supreme Court, are
 held by him in the capacity of fiduciary, which if directed to be
 revealed, would result in breach of such duty.‖

We are in agreement with the above observation. The words ―held by‖ or ―under

the control of‖ under Section 2(j) of the RTI Act will include not only information

under the legal control of the public authority but also all such information which

is otherwise received or used or consciously retained by the public authority while

exercising functions in its official capacity. The 1997 resolution on declaration of

judge‘s assets as adopted on 7 May 1997 states: 69. The Chief Justice of India in exercising his official functions in accordance

with the 1997 resolution while holding asset information of other judges does not

act for and on behalf of other judges of the Supreme Court. There exists no

fiduciary relationship between them. The Chief Justice of India is not entrusted 62 PART G

with the power to protect and further the interests of individual judges who

disclose their assets. The information is required by the mandate of the

resolution dated 7 May 1997 passed by all the then sitting judges of the Supreme

Court and it cannot be said that such information is being provided in any

personal capacity. The Chief Justice of India merely holds the information in

accordance with the official functions and not in any fiduciary capacity. The

judges of the Supreme Court, including the Chief Justice of India occupy a

constitutional office. There exists no set hierarchies between the judges and they

enjoy the same judicial powers and immunities. The judges who disclose their

assets cannot be said to be vulnerable to and dependent on the Chief Justice of

India. In these circumstances, it cannot be held that asset information shared

with the Chief Justice of India, by the judges of the Supreme Court, are held by

him in a fiduciary capacity, which if revealed, would result in breach of fiduciary

duty. Therefore, the argument that the information sought is held in a fiduciary

capacity is inapplicable and cannot be used to prevent the information from being

made public. 70. While we have not accepted the argument of the appellant regarding the

existence of the fiduciary relationship between the Chief Justice of India and the

judges, it is relevant to point out the application of the fiduciary principle to public

institutions where judges hold citizens‘ interests in public trust, guided by

fiduciary standards.73 A Judge‘s public fiduciary obligation towards the citizen

includes a duty of loyalty, duty of care and the cluster comprising the duties of 73 Robert G. Natelson, ―Judicial Review of Special Interest Spending: The General Welfare Clause and the
Fiduciary Law of the Founders‖, 11 Tex. Rev. L. & PoL 239, 245 63 PART H

 candour, disclosure and accounting.74 The duty of loyalty for a judge entails

them being loyal to the citizenry by remaining impartial towards the litigants

before them.75 The duty of care for judges includes the expectation from judges

to fulfil their responsibilities with reasonable diligence and to engage in reason

based decision making.76 The duties of candour, disclosure and accounting are

based on the premise of judicial transparency and judicial honesty. H The right to privacy and the right to know 71. The third referral question to be answered by this Court is: ―Whether the

information sought for is exempt under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act77.‖ The

question requires this Court to determine whether and under what circumstances

the information sought by the applicant should be disclosed under the provisions

of the RTI Act . This Court is cognisant that in interpreting the statutory scheme of

the RTI Act , the constitutional right to know and the constitutional right to privacy

of citizens are also implicated. In answering the question, it is necessary to

analyse the scheme of the RTI Act , the role of the exemptions under Section 8 ,

the interface between the statutory rights and duties under Section 8(1)(j) and the

constitutional rights under Part III of the Constitution. 74 Leib, Ethan J., David L. Ponet, and Michael Serota. "A Fiduciary Theory of Judging." California Law
Review 101, no. 3 (2013): 699-753. Matthew Conaglen, Public-Private Intersection: Comparing Fiduciary Conflict Doctrine and Bias, 2008 PUB. L.
58 (2008) 76 Leib, Ethan J., David L. Ponet, and Michael Serota. "A Fiduciary Theory of Judging." California Law
Review 101, no. 3 (2013): 699-753. See also Alon Harel & Tsvi Kahana, The Easy Core Case for Judicial
Review, 2 J. LEGAL analysis 227, 249 n.23 (2010). ― RTI Act ‖ 64 PART H 72. In order to facilitate effective governance, the government or ‗public

authority‘ must be empowered to efficiently coordinate diverse activities and at

the same time be constrained to ensure that it does not override the freedoms of

those it serves. In explaining the system of checks and balances in the American

Constitution, James Madison noted: 73. The RTI Act was enacted in furtherance of the principles found in Part III of

the Constitution. The RTI Act operationalises the disclosure of information held

by ‗public authorities‘ in order to reduce the asymmetry of information between

individual citizens and the state apparatus. The RTI Act facilities transparency in

the decisions of public authorities, the accountability of public officials for any

misconduct or illegality and empowers individuals to bring to light matters of

public interest. The RTI Act has provided a powerful instrument to citizens: to

individuals engaged in advocacy and journalism. It facilitates a culture of

assertion to the citizen – activist, to the whistle-blower, but above all to each

citizen who has a general interest in the affairs of the state. The preamble of the RTI Act notes: 74. To address the harms that may result from an unrestricted disclosure of

information, the legislature included certain qualified and unqualified exemptions

to the general obligation to disclose under Sections 3 , 4 and 7 of the RTI Act. Section 8(1) sets out certain classes of information, the disclosure of which, the

legislature foresaw may result in harm to the nation or the rights and interests of

other citizens. Section 8 reads as under: Where the conditions set out in any of the sub-clauses to clause (1) of Section 8 are satisfied, the Information Officer is under no obligation to provide information

to the applicant. By expressly enumerating the circumstances in which the 68 PART H

disclosure of information may be restricted on the grounds of certain identified

harms, the RTI Act negates the notion that information may be withheld on the

grounds of confidentiality simpliciter. A harm under clause (1) of Section 8 must

be identified and invoked to justify the non-disclosure of a document requested

for under the RTI Act . 75. It is also pertinent to note that clauses (a), (b), (c), (f), (g) and (h) to clause

(1) of Section 8 provide an absolute exemption from the obligation of disclosure

under the RTI Act . However, clauses (d), (e), (i) and (j) to clause (1) of Section 8 provide a qualified exemption from disclosure. For example, clause (a) to sub

section (1) of Section 8 provides an unconditional exemption where it is

determined that disclosure of the information sought ―would prejudicially affect

the sovereignty and integrity of India‖. On the other hand, while clause (d) to Section 8(1) similarly provides that information is exempt from disclosure where

such disclosure ―would harm the competitive position of a third party‖ the

exemption is further qualified by the phrase, ―unless the competent authority is

satisfied that larger public interest warrants the disclosure‖. Thus, the exemption

under clause (d) is not absolute but is qualified and cannot be invoked where

there exists a ―larger public interest‖. Where the Information Officer determines

that the ―larger public interest‖ warrants a disclosure, the exemption in clause (d)

cannot be invoked and the information must be disclosed. 76. Clause (j) of Section 8(1) provides a qualified exemption from disclosure

where the information sought relates to ―personal information the disclosure of

which has no relationship to any public activity or interest‖ or the disclosure of the 69 PART H

information would cause an ―unwarranted invasion of the privacy‖. However, the

exemption may be overridden where the Information Officer is ―satisfied that the

larger public interest justifies the disclosure‖. Clause (j) is not an absolute

exemption from the disclosure of information on the ground of privacy but states

that disclosure is exempted in cases where ―personal information‖ is sought and

there exists no ―larger public interest‖. Where the Information Officer is satisfied

that the existence of the ―larger public interest‖ justifies the disclosure of the

―personal information‖, the information must be disclosed. The exact contours of

the phrases ―personal information‖ and ―larger public interest‖ with respect to

members of the judiciary, and the exact manner in which they relate to each

other form the subject matter of the third referral question and shall be analysed

during the course of this judgement. 77. Sections 2(n) and 11 of the RTI Act read as under: (Emphasis supplied)

The definition of a ―third party‖ includes a public authority. ‗Third party

information‘ is information which ―relates to or has been supplied by any other

person (including a public authority) other than the information applicant and has

been treated as confidential by such third party. Where disclosure of ‗third party

information‘ is sought, and such information has been prima facie treated as

confidential by the third party in question, the procedure under Section 11 of the

RTI Act is mandatory. The Information Officer shall, within five days of receiving

the request for ‗third party information‘ notify the relevant third party to whom the

information relates or which had supplied it. The notice shall invite the third party

to submit reasons (in writing or orally) as to whether or not the information sought

should be disclosed. Section 11(2) provides the third party with a right to make a

representation against the proposed disclosure within ten days of receiving the

notice. The provision expressly mandates the Information Officer to take into

consideration the objections of the third party when making a decision with

respect to disclosure or non-disclosure of the information. It encapsulates the

fundamental idea that a party whose personal information is sought to be

disclosed is afforded the opportunity to contest disclosure. The proviso to sub

section (1) of Section 11 permits disclosure where the ―public interest‖ in 71 PART H

disclosure ―outweighs‖ any possible harms in disclosure highlighted by the third

party. 78. Sections 8 and 11 must be read together. Other than in a case where the

information applicant seeks the disclosure of information which relates to the

information applicant herself, information sought that falls under the category of

―personal information‖ within the meaning of clause (j) of Section 8(1) is also

―third party information‖ within the ambit of Section 11 . Therefore, in every case

where the information requested is ―personal information‖ within the operation of

clause (j) of sub section 1 of Section 8 , the procedure of notice and objections

under Section 11 must be complied with. The two provisions create a substantive

system of checks and balances which seek to balance the right of the information

applicant to receive information with the right of the third party to prevent the

disclosure of personal information by permitting the latter to contest the proposed

disclosure. 79. In Arvind Kejriwal v Central Public Information Officer79 it was

contended that the procedure for notifying the third party and inviting objections

under Section 11 only applied to situations where the information sought was

directly supplied by the third party, and not to situations where the information

‗related to‘ the third party but was not supplied by it. Rejecting this contention,

Justice Sanjeev Khanna, (as our learned Brother then was) speaking for a

Division Bench of the Delhi High Court held: 79 (Emphasis supplied)

The procedure under Section 11 must be complied with not only in cases where

information has been supplied to the public authority by a third party, but equally

when the information which is held by the public authority ―relates to‖ a third

party. Section 11 is not merely a procedural provision, but a substantive 73 PART H

protection to third parties against the disclosure of their personal information held

by public authorities, without their knowledge or consent. The mere fact that the

public authority holds information relating to a third party does not render it freely

disclosable under the RTI Act . A third party may have good reason to object to

the disclosure of the information, including on the ground that the disclosure

would constitute a breach of the right to privacy. By including the requirement of

inviting objections and providing a hearing on the proposed disclosure of third

party information to the very party who may be adversely impacted by the

disclosure, Section 11 embodies the principles of natural justice. 80. In the present case, the information sought pertains to the declaration of

assets of members of the judiciary and official file notings and correspondence

with respect to the elevation of judges to the Supreme Court. The information

sought with respect to the assets of judges is not generated by the Supreme

Court itself, but is provided by individual judges to the Supreme Court. The file

notings with respect to the elevation of judges do not merely contain information

regarding the operation of the Supreme Court, but also relate to the individual

judges being considered for elevation. Thus, the information sought both ―relates

to‖ and ―has been supplied by‖ a third party and has been treated as confidential

by that third party‖. The procedure under Section 11 is applicable in regard to the

information sought by the respondent and must be complied with.

Constitutional rights implicated 81. The RTI Act , although a statutory enactment, engages the rights contained

in Part III of the Constitution of India. Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution contains 74 PART H

the right to freedom of expression which grants all citizens not merely the right to

free speech, but also the right to freely disseminate speech. The freedom of the

press to disseminate speech has long been recognised under our Constitution.80

An inherent component of the right to disseminate speech freely is the

corresponding right of the audience to receive speech freely. The right to receive

information disseminated has also been recognised as a facet of the freedom of

expression protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. 81 In addition to the

right to receive information already being disseminated in the public domain, Article 19(1)(a) includes a positive right to information. Contrasted with the

negative content of the right to receive information, which prohibits the State from

restricting a citizen‘s access to information already in the public domain, the right

to information, as a facet of Article 19(1)(a) , casts a positive duty on the State to

make available certain information not already in the public domain. 82. In State of Uttar Pradesh v Raj Narain82, Chief Justice A N Ray,

speaking for a Constitution Bench of this Court observed: PART H

to provide citizens with information about the public functioning of government to

ensure accountability and create an informed electorate. 83. Parliament enacted the RTI Act in pursuance of the State‘s positive

obligation to provide citizens with information about the functioning of

government. It is a statute to operationalise the right of citizens to access

information, otherwise only held by the government, under the ‗right to know‘ or

‗right to information‘ as protected by Article 19(1)(a). In requesting for information

under the provisions of the RTI Act , a citizen engages certain statutory rights and

duties under its provisions, but simultaneously also engages the ‗right to know‘

under the Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The ‗right to know‘ is not absolute. The RTI Act envisages certain restrictions on the ‗right to know‘ in the form of

exemptions enumerated in clause (1) to Section 8 . Crucially, restrictions on the

disclosure of information under the RTI Act also constitute restrictions on the

information applicant‘s ‗right to know‘ which is protected under Article 19(1)(a) of

the Constitution. The constitutional permissibility of the statutory restrictions on

disclosure contained within the RTI Act is not in challenge before this Court. But

it is trite to state that any restrictions on the disclosure of information would

necessarily need to comport with the existing law on the protection of the ‗right to

know‘ as a facet of the freedom of expression. In the decision in Thalappalam

Service Cooperative Bank Limited v State of Kerala85 Justice Radhakrishnan,

speaking for a two judge Bench of this Court, noted: Consequently, though right to get information is a
 fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the
 Constitution, limits are being prescribed under the Act
 itself, which are reasonable restrictions within the
 meaning of Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India.‖

 (Emphasis supplied)

The court expressly acknowledged that the RTI Act was enacted to fulfil the

positive content of the right to know that existed under Article 19(1)(a). Further,

restrictions on the disclosure of information under the RTI Act constitute

restrictions on the ‗right to know‘ as a facet of Article 19(1)(a). 84. Clause (j) of sub section (1) of Section 8 uses the phrases ―personal

information‖ and ―unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the individual‖. In

interpreting the harm to be caused in disclosing personal information, this Court

must be cognisant that the privacy of the individual is the subject of constitutional

protection. In K S Puttaswamy v Union of India86 a nine judge bench of this

Court unanimously held that there exists a constitutional right to privacy located

within Part III of the Constitution. Justice D Y Chandrachud, speaking for a

plurality of four judges, held: … 320. Privacy is a constitutionally protected right which
emerges primarily from the guarantee of life and personal
liberty in Article 21 of the Constitution. Elements of privacy
also arise in varying contexts from the other facets of freedom
and dignity recognised and guaranteed by the fundamental
rights contained in Part III. … 323. Privacy includes at its core the preservation of
personal intimacies, the sanctity of family life, marriage,
procreation, the home and sexual orientation. Privacy
also connotes a right to be left alone. Privacy safeguards
individual autonomy and recognises the ability of the
individual to control vital aspects of his or her life.
Personal choices governing a way of life are intrinsic to
privacy. Privacy protects heterogeneity and recognises
the plurality and diversity of our culture. While the
legitimate expectation of privacy may vary from the intimate
zone to the private zone and from the private to the public
arenas, it is important to underscore that privacy is not lost or
surrendered merely because the individual is in a public
place. Privacy attaches to the person since it is an essential
facet of the dignity of the human being. … 325. Like other rights which form part of the fundamental
freedoms protected by Part III, including the right to life
and personal liberty under Article 21 , privacy is not an
absolute right. A law which encroaches upon privacy will
have to withstand the touchstone of permissible
restrictions on fundamental rights. In the context of Article
21 an invasion of privacy must be justified on the basis of a
law which stipulates a procedure which is fair, just and
reasonable. The law must also be valid with reference to the
encroachment on life and personal liberty under Article 21. An invasion of life or personal liberty must meet the
threefold requirement of (i) legality, which postulates the
existence of law; (ii) need, defined in terms of a legitimate
State aim; and (iii) proportionality which ensures a 79 PART H

 rational nexus between the objects and the means
 adopted to achieve them. 326. Privacy has both positive and negative content. The
 negative content restrains the State from committing an
 intrusion upon the life and personal liberty of a citizen. Its
 positive content imposes an obligation on the State to take all
 necessary measures to protect the privacy of the individual. 327. Decisions rendered by this Court subsequent to
 Kharak Singh upholding the right to privacy would be
 read subject to the above principles.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

Justice R F Nariman in his separate concurring opinion made the following

observations: Satish Chandra, AIR 1954 SC 300 : 1954 Cri LJ 865 : 1954
 SCR 1077] and the majority in Kharak Singh [Kharak Singh v.
 State of U.P. , AIR 1963 SC 1295 : (1963) 2 Cri LJ 329 : (Emphasis supplied) 85. The right to privacy is a constitutional right emanating from the right to life

and personal liberty in Article 21 of the Constitution and from the facets of 80 PART H

freedom and dignity embodied in Part III of the Constitution. Any restriction on

the right to privacy by the State must be provided for by law, pursue a legitimate

aim of the State and satisfy the test of proportionality. The requirement of

proportionality is satisfied when the nature and extent of the abridgement of the

right is proportionate to the legitimate aim being pursued by the State. The

constitutional protection of privacy encompasses not merely personal intimacies

but also extends to decisional and informational autonomy. An individual has a

constitutionally protected right to control the dissemination of personal

information. The unauthorised use of information abridges a citizen‘s right to

privacy. 86. The information disclosed under the RTI Act may include personal

information relating to individuals. The RTI Act does not contain any restrictions

on the end-use of the information disclosed under its provisions. The information

disclosed by an Information Officer of the State pursuant to a right to information

application may subsequently be widely disseminated. Clause (j) of sub section

(1) of Section 8 provides that, in certain situations, even personal information of

an individual may be disclosed under the RTI Act . Where the RTI Act contemplates the disclosure of ―personal information‖, the right to privacy of the

individual is engaged. The Act recognise that the absolute or unwarranted

disclosure of an individual‘s personal information under the RTI Act would

constitute an ―unwarranted invasion of the right to privacy‖ under the statutory

provisions of the RTI Act and also abridge the individual‘s constitutional right to

privacy. However, the RTI Act has various checks and balances to guard against

the unadulterated disclosure of personal information under the RTI Act . 81 PART H 87. The constitutional validity of the RTI Act as a measure abridging the right

to privacy is not in question before this Court. But it is trite to say that the RTI Act satisfies the test of legality (by virtue of being a legislation) and also pursues a

legitimate state aim of ensuring, transparency and accountability of government

and an informed electorate. By requiring the Information Officer to balance the

public interest in disclosure against the privacy harm caused, clause (j) creates a

legislatively mandated measure of proportionality to ensure that the harm to the

individual‘s right to privacy is not disproportionate to the aim of securing

transparency and accountability. A balancing of interests 88. The RTI Act is a legislative enactment which contains a finely tuned

balancing of interests between the privacy right of individuals whose information

may be disclosed and the broader public interest in ensuring transparency,

accountability and an informed electorate. Both these interests have significant

implications as they engage constitutional rights under Part III. The overarching

scheme of the RTI Act , and in particular Sections 3 , 4 and 7 constitutes a

mandate to fulfil the positive content of the ‗right to information‘ as a facet of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The privacy interest protected by clause (j) to

sub section (1) of Section 8 engages the principle of informational privacy as a

facet of the constitutional privacy as recognised by this Court in K S

Puttaswamy. Neither the ‗right to information‘ as a facet of Article 19(1)(a) nor

the right to informational privacy as a facet to the right to privacy are absolute.

The rights under Article 19(1)(a) may be restricted on the grounds enumerated in 82 PART H

clause (2) of Article 19. The right to privacy and its numerous facets may be

permissibly restricted where the abridgement is provided by law, pursues a

legitimate State objective and complies with the principle of proportionality. 89. Clause (j) of sub section (1) of Section 8 requires the Information Officer to

first determine whether the information sought falls within the meaning of

―personal information‖. Where the information sought falls within the scope of

―personal information‖ and has ―no relationship to any public activity or interest‖

the information is exempt from disclosure under the RTI Act . However, where

there exists a ‗public interest‘ in the disclosure of the information sought, the test

to be applied by the Information Officer is different. The Information Officer must

evaluate whether the ―larger public interest‖ justifies the disclosure of the

information notwithstanding the fact that the information is ―personal information‖.

In doing so, the Information Officer must balance the privacy interest of the

individual whose personal information will be disclosed with the right to

information of the public to know the information sought. The substantive content

of the terms ―personal information‖ and ―public interest‖ must be informed by the

constitutional standards applicable to the ‗right to know‘ and the ‗right to privacy‘

as disclosure and non-disclosure under the RTI Act directly implicate these

constitutional rights. In striking a balance within the framework of the RTI Act , the

Information Officer must be cognisant of the substantive contents of these rights

and the extent to which they can be restricted within our constitutional scheme. It

is also crucial for the standard of proportionality to be applied to ensure that

neither right is restricted to a greater extent than necessary to fulfil the legitimate 83 PART H

interest of the countervailing interest in question. It is now necessary to examine

the content of ―personal information‖ and ―public interest‖.

Defining Personal Information 90. To understand the scope of information which is protected from disclosure

under the RTI Act , it is of relevance to identify the nature of information which

may be regarded as ―personal information‖. The RTI Act does not put forth a

definition of the term ―personal information‖. However, ―personal information‖ has

been defined under other statutory frameworks. These definitions obviously do

not bind the interpretation of the RTI Act but are useful sources of guidance in

understanding the amplitude of the expression. We must of course read them

with a caveat because the context of usage is not the same. Section 2(i) of the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices

And Procedures And Sensitive Personal Data Or Information) Rules, 2011

defines the term ―personal information‖ in the following terms: 91. Article 4(1) of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

defines personal data in similar terms: 92. The Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 of South Africa

contains an illustrative and comprehensive definition of personal information: 93. In Australian Broadcasting Corporation v Lenah Game Meats92, the

Australian High Court heard an appeal with regard to an application for an

interlocutory injunction to restrain the broadcasting of a film depicting the

activities of the Respondent. The Respondent was a processor and supplier of

game meat and sold possum meat for export. Unknown persons had entered the

respondent's premises and installed hidden cameras. The possum-killing

operations were filmed without the knowledge or consent of the respondent. It

was claimed that the film was made surreptitiously and unlawfully and supplied to 92 [2001] HCA 63 88 PART H

the appellant with the intention that the appellant would broadcast the film. In

determining the Respondent Corporation‘s claim to privacy, Chief Justice

Gleeson made the following observations: 94. In Campbell v MGN Limited93, the claimant was a supermodel who had

instituted proceedings against a publication called the ‗Mirror‘ for publishing

details of her efforts to overcome her drug addiction along with pictures of her

attending meetings of the ‗Narcotics Anonymous‘. The appeal was before the

House of Lords. In her opinion, Baroness Hale noted: (Emphasis supplied) 95. Courts in India have interpreted the scope of information which constitutes

―personal information‖ under the RTI Act . In Girish Ramchandra Deshpande v

Central Information Commissioner94 , the petitioner sought copies of memos,

show-cause notices and punishments awarded to the third respondent by his

employer along with details of movable and immovable properties, investments,

lending and borrowing from banks and other financial institutions. The petitioner

also sought the details of gifts stated to have been accepted by the third

respondent. A large portion of the information sought was located in the income

tax returns of the third respondent. A two judge bench of the Court classified the

information sought as ―personal information‖ and held: 13. The details disclosed by a person in his income tax
 returns are ―personal information‖ which stand exempted from
 disclosure under clause (j) of Section 8(1) of the RTI Act,
 unless involves a larger public interest and the Central Public
 Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer or
 the appellate authority is satisfied that the larger public
 interest justifies the disclosure of such information.‖

Thus, even in cases where information may be classified as ―personal

information‖, the CPIO is required to undertake an enquiry on a case to case

basis to determine if the disclosure of information is justified. 96. In R K Jain v Union of India95 , the appellant‘s application to the Chief

Information Commissioner seeking copies of note-sheets and files relating to a

member of CESTAT, was rejected. The two-judge bench of this Court placed

reliance on the holding in Girish Deshpande and rejected the appellant‘s claim

for inspection of documents relating to the Annual Confidential Reports of the

member of CESTAT, including documents relating to adverse entries in the

Annual Confidential Reports and the ―follow-up action‖ taken. In Canara Bank v

C S Shyam96 , the respondent was employed by the appellant bank as clerical

staff and had asked for information relating to the transfer and posting of other

clerical staff employed by the bank. This information sought included personal

details such as the date of joining, designation of employee, details of promotion 95 (2013) 14 SCC 794 96 (2018) 11 SCC 426 91 PART H

earned, date of joining to the branch. Speaking for a two-judge Bench of this

Court, Justice A M Sapre considered the holding in Girish Deshpande and held

 ―14. In our considered opinion, the aforementioned principle
 of law applies to the facts of this case on all force. It is for the
 reasons that, firstly, the information sought by Respondent 1
 of individual employees working in the Bank was personal in
 nature; secondly, it was exempted from being disclosed under Section 8(1)(j) of the Act and lastly, neither Respondent 1
 disclosed any public interest much less larger public interest
 involved in seeking such information of the individual
 employee nor was any finding recorded by the Central
 Information Commission [C.S. Shyam v. Canara Bank , 2007
 SCC OnLine CIC 626] and the High Court [Canara
 Bank v. CIC, 2007 SCC OnLine Ker 659] as to the
 involvement of any larger public interest in supplying such
 information to Respondent 1.‖ 97. In Subhash Chandra Agarwal v Registrar , Supreme Court of India97,

the appellant had filed an application under the RTI Act seeking information

relating to the details of the medical facilities availed by the Judges of the

Supreme Court and their family members in the preceding three years, including

information relating to expenses on private treatment in India or abroad. The

Court held that disclosure of information regarding medical facilities availed by

judges amounts to an invasion of privacy: Public Interest 98. The right to information and the need for transparency in the case of

elected officials is grounded in the democratic need to facilitate better decision

making by the public. Transparency and the right to information directly

contribute to the ability of citizens to monitor and make more informed decisions

with respect to the conduct of elected officials. Where the misconduct of an

elected representative is exposed to the public, citizens can choose not to vote

for the person at the next poll. In this manner, the democratic process coupled

with the right to information facilitates better administration and provides powerful

incentives for good public decision making. In the case of judges, citizens do not

possess a direct agency relationship. Therefore, the ‗public interest‘ in disclosing 93 PART H

information in regard to a judge cannot be sourced on the need for ensuring

democratic accountability through better public decision making but must be

located elsewhere. 99. In common law countries, public interest has always been understood to

operate as an interest independent to that of the State. Public interest operates

equally against the State as it does against non-State actors. This is of

significance in the context of the RTI Act as the right to information seeks to bring

about disclosure of information previously held exclusively by the State. Public

interest therefore operates as a standalone viewpoint independent of whether the

interest of the State favours disclosure or non-disclosure. At its core, the

objective test for ‗public interest‘ is far broader than democratic decision making

and takes into consideration both shared conceptions of the common good in

society at any given point and yet recognises that such conceptions are always

the product of contestation and disagreement, necessitating a robust set of

viewpoints to facilitate the self-fulfilment of the individual and the search for truth. 100. In Secy., Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India v

Cricket Assn. of Bengal98 Justice P B Sawant speaking for a three judge bench

of this Court observed: 101. We have already observed that the accountability of the judiciary to the

citizenry is inherent in the office of the judge. The administration of justice in our

country is a vast, crucial and expensive endeavour that impacts millions of

citizens on a daily basis. The contention that merely because a judge cannot be

elected out of office, the conduct of judges and their general administration is not

a matter of great public interest cannot be countenanced. The disclosure of

information about the conduct of judges and their administration is necessary to

ensure that the broader societal goals in the administration of justice are 95 PART H

achieved. The disclosure of information can highlight areas where robust

mechanisms of oversight and accountability are required. Lastly, the disclosure

of information with respect to the judiciary also facilitates the self-fulfilment of the

freedom of expression of individuals engaged in reporting, critiquing and

discussing the activities of the court. The freedom of the press in exercising its

role as a ‗public watchdog‘ is also facilitated by the disclosure of information. 102. The factors that weigh in favour of disclosure in the ‗public interest‘ are

specific to each unique case. However, over the years several authorities have

given shape to the concept of public interest and provided indicative factors that

weigh in favour of the disclosure of information. In an article titled ―Freedom of

information and the public interest: the Commonwealth experience‖99 the

authors lay down several factors that, when found to exist in any given case,

would weigh in favour of disclosure. The authors state: 103. In Campbell v MGN Limited100 the House of Lords was called upon to

balance the freedom of expression with the right to privacy. The claimant was a

model who had been photographed leaving a drug rehabilitation meeting. The

photographs were published, and the claimant claimed compensation for a

breach of confidentiality. While the claimant admitted that there existed a public

interest in the photographs of her attending the drug rehabilitation therapy, in

evaluating the right of the defendant to publish the information Baroness Hale

made the following observations: 104. The opinion of Baroness Hale indicates a priority of interests in the

determination of whether speech is in the ‗public interest‘ and is deserving of

protection. However, this Court should caution against such an approach. The

freedom of expression protects a broad range of ideas, including those that

‗offend, shock and disturb‘. In deciding whether information should be disclosed

in the public interest, it is not for the Court to sit in judgement of society and

make a determination on whether society would be ‗better off‘ or ‗worse off‘ if the

information is disclosed. In the prescient words of Justice Tugendhat: ―It is not for

the judge to express personal views on such matters, still less to impose

whatever personal views he might have.‖ 101 It is well established that ‗public

interest‘ does not amount to what the public may find interesting. However,

where the information sought to be disclosed falls within the various fields 101 Terry (previously ‗LNS‘) v Persons Unknown [2010] EWHC 119 98 PART H

discussed above, including the promotion of public debate, intellectual or

educational information or artistic information, the information possesses a

‗public interest‘ connotation in favour of disclosure. 105. Section 11B of the Australian Freedom of Information Act 1982 provides a

list of indicative factors that may be used by courts to determine whether a

document should be disclosed in the ―public interest‖. Section 11B is as under: 106. The understanding that, in interpreting the phrase ‗public interest‘ courts

should pay heed to the objects of the legislation has been adopted in our country

as well. In Bihar Public Service Commission v Saiyed Hussain Abbas 99 PART H

Rizwi102, Justice Swatanter Kumar speaking for a two judge bench of this Court

made the following observations: The existence of the balancing test creates a restriction on disclosure under the RTI Act but does not affect the wide meaning independently accorded to ―public

interest‖ understood as emanating from the freedom of speech and expression. 107. Clause (j) of clause (1) of Section 8 requires the Information Officer to

weigh the ―public interest‖ in disclosure against the privacy harm. The disclosure

of different documents in different circumstances will give rise to unique ―public

interest‖ factors in favour of disclosure. However, a few broad principles may be

laid out as to how the phrase ―public interest‖ is to be understood. Where factors

fall within this interpretation ―public interest‖ so interpreted, they are factors that

weigh in favour of disclosure. The principles are as follows: PART H (v) As an indicative list, information concerning the accountability of

 officials, public expenditure, the performance of public duties, the

 handling of complaints, the existence of any wrongdoing by a public

 official, inefficiency in public administration and unfairness in public

 administration all possess public interest value, their relative

 strength to be determined on a case by case basis; (vi) Where the disclosure of information would promote the aims and

 objectives of the RTI Act, there exists a ―public interest‖ in disclosing

 such information; and (vii) The object and purpose of the RTI Act is the fulfilment of the positive

 obligation on the State to provide access to information under Article

 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and the existence of the restrictions on

 the disclosure of information does not restrict the meaning of ―public

 interest‖ under the Act. Balancing interests in disclosure with privacy interests 108. We have adverted to the substantive content of ―personal information‖ and

―public interest‖ as distinct factors to be considered by the Information Officer

when arriving at a determination under clause (j) of clause (1) of Section 8 . In the

present case, the information sought by the respondent raises both

considerations of ―public interest‖ and ―personal information‖. The text of clause (j) requires the Information Officer to make a determination whether the ―larger

public interest justifies the disclosure‖ of personal information sought. The 102 PART H

Information Officer must conduct balancing or weighing of interests in making a

determination in favour of disclosure or non-disclosure. The Information Officer

must be cognisant that any determination under clause (j) of clause (1) of Section

8 implicates the right to information and the right to privacy as constitutional

rights. Reason forms the heart of the law and the decision of the Information

Officer must provide cogent and articulate reasons for the factors considered and

conclusions arrived at in balancing the two interests. In answering the third

referral question in its entirety, this Court would be remiss in not setting out the

analytical approach to be applied by the Information Officer in balancing the

interests in disclosure with the countervailing privacy interests. Justice S C

Agrawal speaking for a Constitution Bench of this Court in S N Mukherjee v

Union of India103 observed: 109. In the prescient words of Lord Denning: 110. In setting out the precise approach to be adopted by the Information

Officer in making a determination under clause (j) of clause (1) of Section 8 it is

worth adverting to the decision of Campbell v MGM Limited106 the facts of which

have already been discussed above. In that case, the House of Lords was called

upon to balance the privacy rights of the claimant, being photographed leaving a

‗Narcotics Anonymous‘ meeting, under Article 8 of the European Convention of

Human Rights107 and the right of the defendant to publish the information under Article 10 of the ECHR which provides for the freedom of expression. Although

not a case with respect to the disclosure of documents, the House of Lords

makes several notable observations about balancing privacy and free speech

interests. Lord Nicholls observed: 111. Where the information sought is ―personal information‖ the court must next

balance the interest in disclosure or dissemination with the privacy interest at

stake. Baroness Hale in her opinion in Campbell stated: (Emphasis supplied) 112. Once the information sought has been identified as ―personal information‖

the Information Officer must identify the actual rights being claimed in the

individual case. In setting out the substantive content of ‗public interest‘ and

‗privacy‘ various facets of these concepts have been set out. In any given case,

the Information Officer must identify the precise interests weighing in favour of

‗public interest‘ disclosure, and those interests weighing in favour of ‗privacy‘ and

non-disclosure. The Information Officer must then examine the justifications for

restricting each right and whether they are countenanced under the scheme of RTI Act and in law generally. The ground of confidentiality simpliciter is not a

ground to restrict the right to information under the RTI Act or Article 19(1)(a) of

the Constitution. Lastly, the Information Officer must employ the principle of

proportionality. As observed by Baroness Hale, both the right to privacy and the

right to information are legitimate aims. In applying the principle of proportionality,

the Information Officer must ensure that the abridgement of a right is not

disproportionate to the legitimate aim sought to be achieved by enforcing the

countervailing right. 113. Take the example of where an information applicant sought the disclosure

of how many leaves were taken by a public employee and the reasons for such

leave. The need to ensure accountability of public employees is of clear public 107 PART H

interest in favour of disclosure. The reasons for the leave may also include

medical information with respect to the public employee, creating a clear privacy

interest in favour of non-disclosure. It is insufficient to state that the privacy

interest in medical records is extremely high and therefore the outcome should

be blanket non-disclosure. The principle of proportionality may necessitate that

the number of and reasons for the leaves be disclosed and the medical reasons

for the leave be omitted. This would ensure that the interest in accountability is

only abridged to the extent necessary to protect the legitimate aim of the privacy

of the public employee. 114. Having adverted to the analytical test to be applied by the Information

Officers in balancing the two interests, it is also worth setting out certain factors

that should not be considered in such a balancing. Section 11B of the Australian

Freedom of Information Act 1982 lays down certain ‗Irrelevant factors‘ that

should not be considered in determining whether to disclose information. Section

11B is as under: The contents of the declaration of assets would fall within the meaning of

―personal information‖ and the test set out under clause (j) of clause (1) of Section 8 would be applicable along with the procedure under Section 11 of the

RTI Act. In view of the above observations, Civil Appeal No. 2683 of 2010 is

dismissed and the judgement of the Delhi High Court dated 12 January 2010 in

LPA No 501 of 2009 is upheld. 117. Civil Appeals Nos 10044 and 1045 of 2010 are remanded to the CPIO,

Supreme Court of India to be examined and a determination arrived at, after

applying the principles set out in the present judgement. The information sought

in these appeals falls within the meaning of ‗third party information‘ and the

procedure under Section 11 must be complied with in arriving at a determination. 110 PART J

Brother Justice Sanjiv Khanna has observed that: PART J

 The present judgment does not seek to define what the standards for judicial

 appointments should be. However, what needs to be emphasised is that the

 substantive standards which are borne in mind must be formulated and placed

 in the public realm as a measure that would promote confidence in the

 appointments process. Due publicity to the norms which have been

 formulated and are applied would foster a degree of transparency and

 promote accountability in decision making at all levels within the judiciary and

 the government. The norms may also spell out the criteria followed for

 assessing the judges of the district judiciary for higher judicial office. There is

 a vital public interest in disclosing the basis on which those with judicial

 experience are evaluated for elevation to higher judicial office particularly

 having regard to merit, integrity and judicial performance. Placing the criteria

 followed in making judicial appointments in the public domain will fulfil the

 purpose and mandate of Section 4 of the RTI Act, engender public confidence

 in the process and provides a safeguard against extraneous considerations

 entering into the process. .……......................................................J
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

New Delhi; November 13, 2019. 113