R.K. Agrawal, J. Civil Appeal Nos. 3518-3520 1) These appeals are directed against the common final judgment and
order dated 23.05.2006 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of
Kerala at Ernakulam in Writ Appeal Nos. 2011, 2012 and 2235 of 2005 whereby
the High Court dismissed the appeals filed by the appellants herein against
the judgment and order dated 27.07.2005 passed by learned single Judge of
the High Court in Writ Petition (C) Nos. 14495, 16063 and 19582 of 2005. 2) Brief facts: (d) Being aggrieved by the notification dated 22.04.2005
discriminating between the paper lotteries and online lotteries, the All
Kerala Online Lottery Dealers Association, State of Sikkim and one Sreekala
and others filed Writ Petition (C) Nos. 19582, 14495 and 16063 of 2005
respectively before the High Court. (e) A learned single Judge of the High Court, by judgment and order dated
27.07.2005, dismissed the writ petitions. (f) Being aggrieved by the decision of the learned single Judge, the
petitioners therein preferred Writ Appeal Nos. 2011, 2012 and 2235 of 2005
before the Division Bench of the High Court. (g) The Division Bench, by a common judgment and order dated 23.05.2006,
dismissed the appeals. (h) Against the said order, the appellants have preferred these appeals
by way of special leave before this Court. Writ Petition (C) Nos. 641 of 2007 and 233 of 2010 (a) One Bibhash Karmakar-the petitioner herein has filed the above
petitions in public interest alleging that the States of Sikkim, Nagaland
and Goa are running lottery business contrary to the provisions of the Act
which is detrimental to the society as a whole. (b) This Court, by order dated 27.11.2009 in Writ Petition (C) No. 641 of
2007, directed the State to explain as to whether the State of Sikkim is
running lottery business contrary to the provisions of Section 4 of the
Act. In response to the above, the State Government filed an affidavit
dated 10.12.2009 before this Court denying all the irregularities as
claimed by the petitioner herein and cited various provisions of the Act as
well as the Sikkim Online Network Lottery Rules, 2001 to show that the
lottery business in the State is in consonance with the pre-existing rules
and regulations. (c) This Court, by order dated 21.06.2010, tagged Writ Petition (C) No.
233 of 2010 with Writ Petition (C) No. 641 of 2007. 3) Heard the arguments advanced by learned senior counsel for the
parties and perused the records. Since a common question of law and facts
arise in these appeals and petitions, they are being disposed of by this
common judgment. Points for Consideration: Learned senior counsel further contended that the impugned notification is
vitiated by mala fides. It was further alleged that the State Government
is being controlled by the paper lottery mafia and under its influence the
sale of online lottery tickets has been prohibited. The State Government
does not have the competence to issue the impugned notification. Though
the State Government is competent to legislate on lotteries by virtue of
Item 34 of List II concerning betting and gambling, the power to legislate
on lotteries organized by the Government of India or the Government of a
State is the exclusive preserve of the Parliament by virtue of Entry 40 of
List I of the Seventh Schedule. So, the State Government, which is
incompetent to legislate on lotteries run by other States, has no power to
issue the impugned notification. The State Government, without legislative
competence, has ventured to prohibit online lottery which is totally
fraudulent and colourable exercise of the power. 6) Learned senior counsel for the appellants further pointed out that
the contention that online lottery was not in the contemplation of the
Parliament or the Court, cannot be accepted. The Act has to be interpreted
to adapt it to the changing times. According to learned senior counsel,
the Parliament was well aware about the growing advancement of science and
technology and the use of electronic media in future days to come and,
therefore, when it defined ‘lottery’ under Section 2(b) of the Act, it
included also the online lottery or internet lottery which may come into
existence in future. It was further submitted that the provision contained
in Section 5 of the Act would empower the State Government to prohibit the
sale of tickets of all the lotteries and it cannot be restricted only to
online or internet lotteries. He further submitted that if it is to be
taken that the online lottery is a class of lotteries for which the State
Government is empowered to prohibit then it is only the Parliament which
can classify the same and the State of Kerala has no power to do so.
According to him, the Central Government framed the Lotteries (Regulation)
Rules, 2010 (in short ‘the Rules’) under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of
the Act and defined online lotteries under Rule 2(e) of the Rules that too
for the first time in the year 2010, therefore, the State Government had no
right or jurisdiction to prohibit the online lottery in the year 2005. The
principles laid down in B.R. Enterprises (supra) will apply to all types of
lotteries and a judgment of this Court cannot be ignored merely by saying
that it failed to consider some point or other. 7) Learned senior counsel further contended that this Court, in B.R.
Enterprises (supra), has read down Section 5 of the Act, to save it from
the vice of unconstitutionality, emanating from conferring unbridled power
on the State, which may be termed as abdication of the essential
legislative function, by failing to provide guidelines for the exercise of
that power. In the said decision , in paragraphs 84 and 87, it was held as
follows: bailable. Similarly, Section 9 deals with offences committed by the
companies. Section 10 entrusts the Central Government power to give
directions to the State Government for carrying into execution the
provisions of this Act, Rule or Order. Sections 11 and 12 are the rule-
making power entrusted to the Central and the State Governments
respectively. Section 13 repeals the Ordinance. Thus, the whole Act makes
clear that the subject it is dealing with is gambling in nature. The
object of the Act is not to control the policy decision of each State to
start or to close its lotteries, but to regulate it in case a State decides
to run its own lottery through modalities and conditions laid down therein.
 Emphasis of the whole Act is to abide by the conditions strictly if you
want to run a lottery. Thus, regulation is through conditions to eliminate
even the remotest possibility of malpractices by providing stringent
measures for its compliance. Perusal of the Act reveals, the scheme of the
Act is limited in its application, and it admits the subject it is dealing
is gambling in nature. As we have said, the decision to collect or not to
collect revenue through State lotteries is exclusively within the policy
decision of the State and for this, neither the Union nor Parliament
interferes nor is there any indication under the Act. Thus, the question
which remains is, if any State decides that it does not want any lotteries
but if it feels helpless as having no jurisdiction over the lotteries
organized by other States, what is the way out ? This can only be done by
Parliament or by entrusting this power on such State desiring so, which has
been done through Section 5 . In this background, for this helplessness of
a State as recorded in Anraj case-I [(1984) 2 SCC 292] the remedy is
provided by entrusting this power on the State under the impugned
provision. This helps such State to achieve its objective of lottery
(gambling) free zone within its territory. A well-concerned remedy. Next
question is what could have been the guideline? If State lotteries are
gambling and it cannot be terms as ‘trade and commerce’ at common parlance
for any free right under the Constitution. Such right though recognized
under Article 298 , so other States may continue to enjoy till prohibited by
valid law, and if any State wants within its State lottery-free zone and
for which the power is entrusted to such State, it cannot be said in this
setting and background and the nature of the subject that such a delegation
is of its essential legislative power. The only guideline necessary in
such delegation is to see that the State does not pick and choose one State
from the other, which guideline is already provided in this Section. It
provides that such a ban could only be if it is applied to every other
State. The only residual field of attack so far as this delegation could
be, which has been attacked in this case, that the State could on one hand
ban lotteries of every other State but run its own lotteries. It is argued
that while a State bans lotteries of other States not to permit any
gambling activity in the public interest as a policy but this very public
interest is flouted by having lotteries of its own. It is true that unless
this provision is read down to mean a State can only ban lotteries of other
States when it bans as a policy its own lotteries it is bound to be
subjected to the vagaries as pointed out and on deeper scrutiny it may not
successfully stand. But, by reading down the provision, which has to be
read that it is only that State which decides lottery-free zone within its
State can prohibit lotteries of other States clearly provides the guidance
for the exercise of such a power. It is inbuilt and inherent in the
provision itself in view of the scheme of the Act and nature of subject in
issue. If interpretation as given on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu is
accepted that delegation of power is absolute, then the submission that
such delegation is unbridled without any guideline carries great weight.
Submission for the State of Tamil Nadu is that the lotteries may be
prohibited in phases, viz. while running its own lotteries yet prohibiting
other lotteries, may be as a public policy, for law and order, for
political reasons, morality, etc. For surviving such an interpretation
given by Mr. Ganguli, Parliament should have provided some guidelines. Such
an interpretation falls into the trap of the submission that this
delegation is unbridled. So, if there are two interpretations, the
interpretation which upholds the validity should be accepted. So, the
interpretation as given by Mr. Ganguli cannot be accepted. 87. We find on plain reading of Section 5 , it empowers the State
Government within its State to prohibit the sale of tickets of the
lotteries organized by every other State. There is also nothing in the
language reading by itself so as to say, whether such power can be
exercised by the State while running its own lottery or can be exercised
only where such State does not run its own lottery. This leads to two
possible interpretations, as referred to above . In view of settled
principle of interpretations, the interpretation given by the union to read
down the provision has substance. This would mean that the State could
only exercise such discretion if it decides not to have any lottery within
its territory including its own lottery. In this situation, the delegate
is tied down by this limitation which itself is a clear guide to a State
hence cannot be said to be unbridled delegation. So even to the first part
it cannot be said to be arbitrary or unbridled. So, we have no hesitation
to approve the interpretation given by the Union to uphold the validity of Section 5 .”

Relying on the above quoted paragraphs, learned senior counsel for the
appellants vehemently contended that the State shall either prohibit the
sale of all lotteries or allow the sale of all lotteries in the State.
Selective prohibition of a particular type of lottery is impermissible in
the light of the above binding judgment. 8) In support of this submission learned senior counsel apart from the
decision in B.R. Enterprises (supra) relied on the following decisions,
viz., The Senior Electric Inspector and Others vs. Laxmi Narayan Chopra and
Others 1962 (3) SCR 146, State (Through CBI/New Delhi) vs. S.J. Choudhary
( 1996) 2 SCC 428 and SIL Import, USA vs. Exim Aides Silk Exporters,
Bangalore (1999) 4 SCC 567. 9) The learned senior counsel for the State of Kerala-the respondent herein
supported the impugned notification by contending that the State Government
is competent to prohibit a particular type of lottery. There is no fetter
on the power of the Government under Section 5 . Learned senior counsel
further submitted that when the Parliament enacted the Act in the year
1998, there was nothing before it to presume that in times to come online
lotteries will also come into existence apart from the paper lotteries and,
therefore, the provision of Section 5 which empowers the State Government
to prohibit the sale of tickets of a lottery organized, conducted or
promoted by every other State necessarily relate to paper lottery. Even
otherwise, online lottery is different from paper lottery and can be
treated as a class in itself. The State Government is, therefore,
empowered under Section 5 of the Act to prohibit the sale of online
lotteries or internet lotteries in its State. He further submitted that
the Central Government itself treated online lotteries as a different class
in itself and, therefore, framed the Rules providing the rules and
regulations for organizing paper lottery or online lottery or both subject
to certain terms and conditions. Thus, the intention of the Parliament was
to treat paper lotteries and online lotteries a different class. The
decision in B.R. Enterprises (supra) would therefore necessarily be
understood to relate to paper lotteries only. The said decision cannot be
construed as a precedent. So, the declaration of law, made therein, is not
applicable to online lotteries. It is also submitted that prohibition of
sale of online lotteries has been made bona fide and the classification is
reasonable and not arbitrary. Learned senior counsel further submitted
that the scheme of Section 4 would show that the Act was framed with a view
to deal with paper lotteries which were in vogue at that point of time
whereas the distributors of online lotteries do much more than selling the
tickets. They decide and implement the lottery schemes, provide infra-
structure and technology, print lotteries and participate in the conduct of
draws. Section 4(h) of the Act prohibits holding of draws, more than once
in a week. This restriction has been made taking into account the conduct
of paper lotteries. But, in online lotteries, 70 to 100 draws are made
every day in a week. On the above grounds the respondents prayed for
dismissal of the appeals. Discussion: Section 4 enumerates the conditions, subject to which a State Government
may organize, conduct or promote a lottery, which reads as follows: 8. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable.—The offence under this Act
shall be cognizable and non-bailable.” 11) From the above provisions, it can be seen that the tickets of a State-
run lottery shall be printed by the State itself. Sale of tickets alone is
permitted through the agents or through distributors. The entire sale
proceeds have to be credited in the public account of the State. Draws of
all the lotteries have to be conducted by the State Government. No lottery
can have more than one draw in a week. Bumper draws shall not be more than
six in a calendar year. The cumulative effect of sub-sections (h) and (j)
appears to be that a State can run only 52 ordinary lotteries and six
bumper lotteries in a year. Section 5 empowers the State Government to
prohibit the sale of tickets of lotteries organized, conducted or promoted
by every other State Government. Section 6 empowers the Central Government
to prohibit the conduct of lotteries, which are in violation of the
provisions of Section 4 or which are sold in contravention of the
prohibition imposed by the State Government under Section 5 . Section 7 provides the penalty for running a lottery in violation of the provisions
of the Act. The Head of the Department and other officers responsible for
the conduct of the lottery shall be punished with imprisonment, which may
extend to two years or with fine or with both. Similar punishment can be
imposed on those who sell or purchase the tickets of such a lottery. Section 8 makes the offences under the Act cognizable and non-bailable.
Cognizable offence means an offence for which a police officer may arrest
the accused without warrant ( Section 2(c) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (in short ‘the Code’). In this background, it is also
relevant to quote Section 4 of the Code which reads as follows: “Government of Kerala Reg. No. KL/TV(N)/12/2003-2005 2005 KERALA GAZETTE
 EXTRAORDINARY
 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

Vol.L Thiruvananthapuram 13th January, 2005 Volume 50 Thursday No. 77 23rd Pousha 1926

 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA
 Taxes (H) Department
 NOTIFICATION
G.O.(P) No. 4/2005/TD dated, Thiruvanathapuram, 13th January, 2005. S.R.O. No. 34/2005 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section
5 of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998 (Central Act 17 of 1998), the
Government of Kerala hereby prohibit the sale of all Computerised and
Online lottery tickets marketed and operated through vending machines,
terminals, electronic machines and tickets sold through Internet in Kerala,
with immediate effect and declare that Kerala shall be the free zone from
Online and Internet

 By order of the Governor. P. MARA PANDYAN,
 Secretary to Government

 Explanatory Note

 (This does not form part of the Notification, but is intended to
indicate its general purport). Government have decided to prohibit the sale of computerized and
online lottery tickets in the State of Kerala with immediate effect
 This notification is intended to achieve the above object.”

“Government of Kerala Reg. No. KL/TV(N)/12/2003-2005 2005 KERALA GAZETTE
 EXTRAORDINARY
 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

Vol.L Thiruvananthapuram 27th January, 2005 Volume 50 Thursday No. 169 7th Magga 1926

 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA
 Taxes (H) Department
 NOTIFICATION
G.O.(P) No. 11/2005/TD dated, Thiruvanathapuram, 27th January, 2005. S.R.O. No. 73/2005 - WHEREAS Notification II G.O. (P) No. 4/2005/TD
dated 13th January, 2005 published as S.R.O. No 34/2005 in Kerala Gazette
Extraordinary No. 77 dated the 13th January, 2005 prohibiting the sale of
computerized and online lottery tickets in the State of Kerala has been
issued under Section 5 of the Lotteries Regulation Act, 1998 (Central Act
17 of 1998). AND WHEREAS the Government of Kerala have decided to prohibit the
sale of all lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by the State of
Kerala with immediate effect. AND WHEREAS the Government of Kerala have decided to prohibit the
sale of tickets of all lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by every
other State Government also; NOW THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of
the Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998 (Central Act 17 of 1998) and all other
powers enabling for it, the Government of Kerala hereby prohibit the sale
of tickets of all lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by every other
State Government including lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by
the Government of Kerala in the State of Kerala with immediate effect and
declare that the State of Kerala shall hereafter be a Lottery Free Zone. By order of the Governor. P. MARA PANDYAN,
 Secretary to Government

 Explanatory Note

 (This does not form part of the Notification, but is intended to
indicate its general purport). Government of Kerala have decided to make the State of Kerala a
Lottery Free Zone. This notification is intended to achieve the above object. II
G.O.(P) No.11/2005/TD dated, Thiruvananthapuram, 27th January, 2005. S.R.O.No. 74/2005, - In exercise of the powers conferred by
subsections (1) and (2) of section 12 of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act,
1998 (Central Act 17 of 1998), the Government of Kerala hereby make the
following rules to repeal the Kerala State Lotteries (Regulation) Rules,
2003 issued in G.O.(P) No. 118/2003/TD dated the 16th July, 2003 and
published as S.R.O.No 646/2003 in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary No. 1278
dated the 16th July, 2003, as amended subsequently, namely:- By order of the Governor. P. MARA PANDYAN,
 Secretary to Government

 Explanatory Note

 (This does not form part of the Notification, but is intended to
indicate its general purport). Government of Kerala by notification issued as G.O.(P)No.11/2005/TD
dated 27th January, 2005 and published as S.R.O.No 73 in Kerala Gazette
Extraordinary No. 169 dated 27th January, 2005 has prohibited the sale of
lottery tickets organized, conducted or promoted by the Government of
Kerala. Accordingly the Kerala State Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2003 has
to be repealed. This notification is intended to achieve the above object.”

 “Government of Kerala Reg. No.KL/TV(N)/12/2003-2005 2005 KERALA GAZETTE
 EXTRAORDINARY
 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

Vol.L Thiruvananthapuram 22nd April, 2005 Volume 50 Friday No. 837 2nd Vaisakha 1927

 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA
 Taxes (H) Department
 NOTIFICATIONS
G.O.(P) No. 382/2005/TD dated, Thiruvanathapuram, 22nd April, 2005. S.R.O. No. 73/2005 - WHEREAS Notification II G.O. (P) No. 4/2005/TD
dated 13th January, 2005 published as S.R.O. No. 34/2005 in Kerala Gazette
Extraordinary No. 77 dated the 13th January, 2005 prohibiting the sale of
computerized and online lottery tickets in the State of Kerala. AND WHEREAS, by Notification No. I issued as G.O. (P)No.11/2005/TD
dated 27th January, 2005 and published as S.R.O.No. 73 in the Kerala
Gazette Extraordinary No. 169 dated the 27th January, 2005, the Government
of Kerala prohibited the sale of tickets of all lotteries organized,
conducted or promoted by every State Government including that of State of
Kerala and declared the State as a Lottery Free Zone. NOW THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of
the Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998 (Central Act 17 of 1998) and in
partial modification of the Notification issued as S.R.O. No. 73/2005 dated
the 27th January, 2005, the Government of Kerala hereby lift the
prohibition partially by permitting the sale of paper lotteries organized,
conducted or promoted by every State Government including the State of
Kerala provided that the prohibition imposed on the sale of computerized
and online lottery tickets organized, conducted or promoted by every State
Government shall continue to remain in force and the territory of the State
of Kerala shall be online, internet and computerized lotteries free zone. By order of the Governor. P. MARA PANDYAN,
 Secretary to Government

 Explanatory Note

 (This does not form part of the Notification, but is intended to
indicate its general purport). Government of Kerala by notification issued as G.O. (P) No.
66/2005/TD dated 20th April, 2005, have reconsidered the issue of the
prohibition imposed on the sale of all Lottery Tickets in the State of
Kerala and have decided to reintroduce Paper Lottery conducted by the State
Government with the same pattern and prize Structure as it prevailed before
27th January, 2005.”

From a perusal of the Notification dated 13.01.20015, issued by the
Government of Kerala, we find that the State had prohibited the sale of all
computerized and online lottery tickets marketed and operated through
vending machines, terminals, electronic machines and tickets sold through
internet in Kerala. However, by notification dated 27.01.2005, the State
had prohibited the sale of tickets of all lotteries in the State of Kerala.
 Vide notification dated 27.01.2005, the Government of Kerala made the
Kerala State Lotteries (Regulation) (Repeal) Rules, 2005 which repealed the
entire Kerala State Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2003. Vide another
notification dated 22.04.2005, the Government of Kerala lifted the
prohibition of sale of paper lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by
every State Government including the State of Kerala. However, the
prohibition imposed on the sale of computerized and online tickets
continued to remain in force. 13) In the 2010 Rules, framed by the Central Government, online Lottery
has been defined under Rule 2(1)(e) which is as under-
“‘online lottery’ means a system created to permit players to purchase
lottery tickets generated by the computer or online machine at the lottery
terminals where the information about the sale of a ticket and the player’s
choice of any particular number or combination of numbers is simultaneously
registered with the central computer server;”

Rule 3 permitted the State Government to organize a paper lottery or online
lottery or both subject to the conditions specified in the Act and these
rules. Thus from the Rules, it is clear that online lottery is being
treated as a separate lottery from paper lottery and it is a class in
itself. 14) In the case on hand, we are mainly concerned with the provisions of Section 5 and Section 6 of the Act. These two Sections cover different
fields. Section 5 deals with prohibition of sale of tickets, whereas Section 6 deals with prohibition of conduct of the lottery itself. So, Section 5 enables the State Government to prohibit the sale of tickets of
lotteries run by every other State Government. The grounds on which
prohibition of sale of tickets can be made are not detailed under Section 5. But, the same can be gathered from other provisions of the Act and also
by reference to the Object and Scheme of the Act. Going by the scheme of
the Act, it appears that violation of any of the conditions contained in Section 4 could be a ground for the State Government to prohibit the sale
of tickets of a particular lottery, organized, conducted or promoted by any
other State Government. If the State Government thinks it fit, it may
prohibit the sale of all lottery tickets in the State and make it a lottery
free zone. Section 6 empowers the Central Government to prohibit a lottery
run by the State Government. The Central Government can prohibit the
running of a lottery by a State Government if it is found that the same is
in violation of the provisions of Section 4 . The Central Government can
also prohibit the running of a lottery if it is found that the tickets of
that lottery are sold in a State, where the sale of the same has been
prohibited by the concerned State Government under Section 5 . 15) In view of the above, it is relevant to mention Entry 40 under List I
and Entry 34 in List II of the Seventh Schedule and Article 246 of the
Constitution of India which are as under:- Online lottery is a tamper proof lottery which has been designed using the
aid of modern technology that eliminates all the ills of paper lottery and
has greater transparency and is universally recognized as a tamper proof
and safe method of conducting lotteries. Modernization led to spurt of
computerization, satellite and internet connectivity which bears a great
impact on every aspect of life, made things easier and faster and brought
in more transparency. Thus began lottery in another form, popularly called
“online lottery.” The difference in the lotteries of this form is that
“online” is free from possibility of any duplication, tamper etc., and is
totally transparent. 17) Online lotteries became popular in our country, only recently. It
made their presence felt in India from 2000-2001 onwards. Though all types
of lotteries are meant to be covered by the Lotteries (Regulation) Act,
1998 , the deleterious effect of paper lotteries was uppermost in the mind
of the Central Government while bringing forth the above legislation as, at
the relevant time, paper lotteries were most popular among the people. The
various sub-sections of Section 4 will reveal that the irregularities in
the conduct of paper lotteries were mainly in the contemplation of the
Parliament. The decision in B.R. Enterprises (supra) also dealt with the
prohibition of sale of tickets of paper lotteries invoking power under Section 5 of the Act. Still, the general principles laid down by this
Court in the abovementioned case, while interpreting Section 5 , are
binding. So, the power to prohibit sale of tickets is granted in relation
to a particular lottery or particular type of lottery. That means, a
particular lottery can be the subject-matter of prohibition. In other
words, all types of lotteries need not be prohibited. But, going by that
decision, a particular type of lottery can be prohibited, if only, the
State Government also does not run that lottery. The online lottery is a
particular lottery, which is not run by the State Government. So, going by
the principles laid down in B.R. Enterprises (supra), the State Government
can separately ban the sale of online lotteries as online lottery is a
particular class of lottery, different and distinct from paper lotteries. 18) Learned counsel for the appellants also brought into notice para 21
of the Writ Petition filed before the High Court to show how the system of
online lottery functions, which is as under: In some cases, some lotteries except one digit all other digits will be
pre-fixed and the buyer has to choose only a single digit. In some other
cases, one digit of two digit number or of three digit number will be
changing continuously, but in a pre-determined cyclic manner, which shows
that the draw is held only for one digit. It was detected from the lottery
terminals that the tickets of States of Meghalaya and Nagaland are being
printed one after another from the same terminal and the same pool in an
unbroken manner. Several tickets without the imprint and logo of other
State Governments and even without signature of the authorized officer of
those States have been found being sold in the State of Kerala. Standard
set of rules are printed on the reverse side of the stationery and tickets
of more than one States are being printed on the same material, by the same
terminal in unbroken strips. The proceeds of the sale of online lotteries
are rather shared by the distributors and agents without crediting in the
public account of the respective States, in violation of the provisions of
the Act. The details of unclaimed money are not brought to the knowledge
of the other State Governments, whereas the unclaimed prize money is being
appropriated by the distributors and agents. The place of draw is not at
all located within the other States, whereas the same is being conducted
according to the convenience of the distributors. The lottery distributors
and agents of other State Governments are resorting to such unscrupulous
methods and conducting online lotteries in every 15 minutes from the
lottery terminals. The Lottery Department of the State had detected the
draws being conducted in lottery outlets for more than 49 draws in a day. 22) The provisions in respect of Sikkim State Lotteries was reported to
the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India on 12.01.2004. The
scheme of lotteries furnished by the Government of Sikkim revealed that
they were not in conformity with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act.
The irregularities/violations in respect of the Sikkim lotteries being sold
in Kerala in the year 2004 were brought to the notice of the State
Government earlier with a request for further documents/clarifications.
Some of these violations/ irregularities are briefly mentioned below: Under this the Central Government may prohibit any State lottery which is
being conducted in contravention of the conditions as laid down under Section 4 or Section 5 . Section 7 shows the rigour of this Act by making
it a penal offence as against all, who violate the provisions of this Act,
be it the Head of the Department of the Government or the agent, promoter
or trader, to be punishable with two years rigorous imprisonment. Section
8 makes such an offence cognizable and non-bailable. Similarly, Section 9 deals with offences committed by the companies. Section 10 entrusts the
Central Government power to give directions to the State Government for
carrying into execution the provisions of this Act, Rule or Order. Sections 11 and 12 are the rule-making power entrusted to the Central and
the State Governments respectively. Section 13 repeals the Ordinance.
Thus, the whole Act makes clear that the subject it is dealing with is
gambling in nature. The object of the Act is not to control the policy
decision of each State to start or to close its lotteries, but to regulate
it in case a State decides to run its own lottery through modalities and
conditions laid down therein. Emphasis of the whole Act is to abide by the
conditions strictly if you want to run a lottery. Thus, regulation is
through conditions to eliminate even the remotest possibility of
malpractices by providing stringent measures for its compliance. Perusal
of the Act reveals, the scheme of the Act is limited in its application,
and it admits the subject it is dealing is gambling in nature. As we have
said, the decision to collect or not to collect revenue through State
lotteries is exclusively within the policy decision of the State and for
this, neither the Union nor Parliament interferes nor is there any
indication under the Act. Thus, the question which remains is, if any
State decides that it does not want any lotteries but if it feels helpless
as having no jurisdiction over the lotteries organized by other States,
what is the way out? This can only be done by Parliament or by entrusting
this power on such State desiring so, which has been done through Section 5. In this background, for this helplessness of a State as recorded in
Anraj case-I [(1984) 2 SCC 292] the remedy is provided by entrusting this
power on the State under the impugned provision. This helps such State to
achieve its objective of lottery (gambling) free zone within its territory.
 A well-concerned remedy. Next question is what could have been the
guideline? If State lotteries are gambling and it cannot be terms as
‘trade and commerce’ at common parlance for any free right under the
Constitution. Such right though recognized under Article 298 , so other
States may continue to enjoy till prohibited by valid law, and if any State
wants within its State lottery-free zone and for which the power is
entrusted to such State, it cannot be said in this setting and background
and the nature of the subject that such a delegation is of its essential
legislative power. The only guideline necessary in such delegation is to
see that the State does not pick and choose one State from the other, which
guideline is already provided in this Section. It provides that such a ban
could only be if it is applied to every other State. The only residual
field of attack so far as this delegation could be, which has been attacked
in this case, that the State could on one hand ban lotteries of every other
State but run its own lotteries. It is argued that while a State bans
lotteries of other States not to permit any gambling activity in the public
interest as a policy but this very public interest is flouted by having
lotteries of its own. It is true that unless this provision is read down
to mean a State can only ban lotteries of other States when it bans as a
policy its own lotteries it is bound to be subjected to the vagaries as
pointed out and on deeper scrutiny it may not successfully stand. But, by
reading down the provision, which has to be read that it is only that State
which decides lottery-free zone within its State can prohibit lotteries of
other States clearly provides the guidance for the exercise of such a
power. It is inbuilt and inherent in the provision itself in view of the
scheme of the Act and nature of subject in issue. If interpretation as
given on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu is accepted that delegation of
power is absolute, then the submission that such delegation is unbridled
without any guideline carries great weight. Submission for the State of
Tamil Nadu is that the lotteries may be prohibited in phases, viz. while
running its own lotteries yet prohibiting other lotteries, may be as a
public policy, for law and order, for political reasons, morality, etc. For
surviving such an interpretation given by Mr. Ganguli, Parliament should
have provided some guidelines. Such an interpretation falls into the trap
of the submission that this delegation is unbridled. So, if there are two
interpretations, the interpretation which upholds the validity should be
accepted. So, the interpretation as given by Mr. Ganguli cannot be
accepted.”
“85. There are two parts of the attack of the delegation of power to the
State under Section 5 . The latter part, by which it can prohibit sale of
lottery tickets organized by every State which leaves no scope of any
discretion on the States to discriminate from one State to other. So if it
decides no lottery tickets of any State to be sold it cannot pick and
choose from one State to the other. Once it, as a policy, decides to prohibit the sale of lottery tickets of
other States it must prohibit every other State, that is to say, all the
States and such a delegation cannot be said to be either abdication of the
legislative power of Parliament or to be unbridled or unguided. As we have
said looking to the nature of the subject and object of the Act which is to
help each State in its endeavor to run State lotteries which would include
starting or closing its lotteries and when a State wants to have lottery-
free zone in its State, then such a delegation to ban lottery of every
other State cannot be said to be invalid. To the first part, there are two
interpretation, one on the plain reading of Section 5 , a State may run its
own lottery yet may prohibit the sale of lotteries of other States. This
construction leads to discrimination and opens for criticism of unbridled
delegation. The submission further is, if the ban of sale of lottery
tickets of every other State is as a public policy, affecting the morality
and resultant ill effect on its subject then there is no justification that
the State may run its own lottery affecting the very subject for which the
power is exercised prohibiting the lotteries of other states. It is true,
if such an interpretation is accepted then this submission has a force. On
the other hand, on behalf of the Union the submission is that the language
of the section has to be read down. The decision to have its lottery or
not to have its lottery has to be in the public interest. Every decision
to have either lotteries authorized by the State or organized by the State
has to be in public interest. May be for collection of public revenue or
for a public purpose. It has been held in Central Inland Water Transport
Corporation Ltd. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly AIR para 93: Once such a decision is taken to have its State lottery-free zone, the
entrustment of power by Parliament cannot be said to be ultra vires. 87. We find on plain reading of Section 5 , it empowers the State
Government within its State to prohibit the sale of tickets of the
lotteries organized by every other State. There is also nothing in the
language reading by itself so as to say, whether such power can be
exercised by the State while running its own lottery or can be exercised
only where such State does not run its own lottery. This leads to two
possible interpretations, as referred to above . In view of settled
principle of interpretations, the interpretation given by the union to read
down the provision has substance. This would mean that the State could
only exercise such discretion if it decides not to have any lottery within
its territory including its own lottery. In this situation, the delegatee
is tied down by this limitation which itself is a clear guide to a State
hence cannot be said to be unbridled delegation. So even to the first part
it cannot be said to be arbitrary or unbridled. So, we have no hesitation
to approve the interpretation given by the Union to uphold the validity of Section 5 .” 32) From the observations made by this Court, as extracted above, learned
counsel representing the appellants contended that the State of Kerala
could not prohibit any form of lottery as long as it was running other
forms of lottery of other States as also of the State of Kerala. After
having given anxious thought to the rival contentions, we are not inclined
to accept the contention raised by learned senior counsel for the
appellants. 33) It may be reiterated that the question that came to be framed by this
Court on the rival contentions raised by the counsel for the parties in B.R. Enterprises (supra) was as to whether the delegation of essential
legislative power of the principal to a delegatee would amount to
abdication of its legislative power and if it is bereft of any guidelines
then is it unsustainable in the eyes of law. This Court held that if the
State decides that it does not want any lotteries but if it feels helpless
as having no jurisdiction over the lotteries organized by other States, it
can only be done by the Parliament or by entrusting this power on such
State desiring so, which has been done through Section 5 . The remedy is
provided by entrusting this power on the State under Section 5 . This would
help the State to achieve its objective of ‘lottery free zone’ within its
territory. While dealing with the guidelines, this Court further observed
that if a State may want it to be a lottery-free zone, it could not be said
that such delegation would be of essential legislative power. The only
guideline necessary in such a delegation is to see that the State does not
pick and choose one State from the other, which guideline is already
provided in the Section. If the ban is applied to all the States and also
the State banning lotteries, the contention that delegation was excessive,
uncanalised and unbridled would lose its sting. We are satisfied that by
virtue of the provisions contained in Section 12 of the Act, the Centre has
delegated its power to legislate with regard to lotteries to States and
further that there is specific delegation with regard to ban of lotteries
of other States by virtue of the provisions contained in Section 5 of the
Act. This delegation of legislative power of the principal to the
delegatee would not amount to abdication of legislative power by the Centre
and it would not be without any guidelines and would be sustainable in law
if the concerned State may ban a lottery in its own State and of other
States as well. What is true with regard to the total ban of lotteries of
other States, in our view, would also be true with regard to a particular
kind of lottery as the delegation of power has been held to be valid if the
power by the delegatee may be used uniformly in its own State and also with
regard to the other States. In the context of the facts and circumstances
of the case as fully detailed above, we hold that when the State of Kerala
may prohibit a particular kind of lottery from its own State, it can
prohibit sale of such lottery from any other State and that would not be
unsustainable in the eyes of law nor it could be against law as held by
this Court in B.R. Enterprises (supra). 34) We also hold that it is not a case of abdication of legislative power
and would not be bereft of any guidelines if the legislation banning
lotteries was applied uniformly. We, on the interpretation of the point on
the issue of delegation of essential legislative power bereft of any
guidelines, hold that it is not a case of abdication of the legislative
power of the Centre and further that if the ban on the online lottery
applies uniformly, it would not be a case of exercising power by a
delegatee without any guidelines. 35) In the case of The Senior Electric Inspector (supra), this Court,
while considering as to whether the doctrine of contemporanea expositio can
be applied in construing Acts which are comparatively modern, held as
under:- While it remains law, it is to be treated as always speaking. This means
that in its application on any date, the language of the Act, though
necessarily embedded in its own time, is nevertheless to be construed in
accordance with the need to treat it as current law. * * *”
In the comments that follow it is pointed out that an ongoing Act is taken
to be always speaking. It is also, further, stated thus: The following passage at p. 167 of the above book has been quoted with
approval by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State v. S.J. Choudhary : ...…………….………………………CJI. (H.L. DATTU)

.…....…………………………………J.
 (R.K. AGRAWAL)
.…....…………………………………J.
 (ARUN MISHRA)
NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 5, 2015. Hon'ble Mr. Justice R.K. Agrawal pronounced the reportable judgment
of the Bench comprising Hon'ble the Chief Justice, His Lordship and Hon'ble
Mr. Justice Arun Mishra. The appeals and writ petitions are dismissed in terms of the signed
reportable judgment.