This is plaintiff's second appeal challenging the judgment and

decrees of the courts below, whereby his suit for declaration that he is owner in

possession of the suit land, was dismissed. As per the averments made in the plaint, respondent, who is his

mother was owner of the suit land. Appellant served her for the last more than 35

years and out of love and affection and due to the service rendered to her by the

appellant, she gave the suit land to the appellant about 10 years back and since

then he was getting the land cultivated through his servants and agents.

Defendant-respondent had also agreed to get the suit land transferred in his

favour. Since she was trying to wriggle out from the aforesaid arrangement, the

necessity arose to file the present suit. Initially the aforesaid suit of the appellant was decreed by the

Permanent Lok Adalat, Gurgaon vide judgment and decree dated 7.5.2003 on

the basis of an admitted written statement alleged to be filed by the defendant-

respondent. However, the aforesaid decree was challenged by the defendant- RSA No. 669 of 2010 2 respondents and was ultimately set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.

The order dated 3.1.2008 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court reads as follows:- On remand, the defendant was permitted by the court to file

amended written statement whereby she controverted the averments of the

plaint raising various preliminary objections and further submitting that she was

owner in possession of the suit property and there was no document of transfer

of title of the suit land in favour of the appellant. It was also stated that he had

played a fraud upon her by getting the matter listed before the Permanent Lok

Adalat, Gurgaon and got award dated 7.5.2003 passed in his favour which was

set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 3.1.2008 in CA No.2 of 2008. It was

further stated that revenue record of the suit land was in the name of the

respondent. It was also submitted that she was owner of the entire suit land and

besides this, she was also owner of other land which was sold by the plaintiff

without her consent and knowledge. It was denied that appellant ever served

her. She had stayed with her husband and after his death in the year 1998, she

was looked after by her nephew and daughter Geeta alias Neeru. It was denied RSA No. 669 of 2010 3 that appellant had provided any financial assistance to her. It was further stated

that plaintiff never rendered any service to her and she never agreed to transfer

the suit land or any other land in his favour. Thus dismissal of the suit was

prayed for. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were

framed:- Both the courts below on appreciation of evidence recorded

concurrent finding that there was no documentary/cogent evidence on the basis

of which it could be proved that the appellant has become the owner of the suit

property. The courts below further found that the oral evidence placed on record

by the appellant was not sufficient to prove the fact that suit land was given to

him 10 years back from the date of filing of the suit. Still not satisfied, the plaintiff had filed the instant appeal.

 During the pendency of this appeal, plaintiff-appellant died on

19.1.2010. His legal heirs were brought on record vide order dated 12.10.2010

passed in C.M.No.10212-13-C of 2010. In the grounds of appeal, it has been

submitted that the following substantial questions of law are involved in the

instant appeal:- In support of this appeal, Mr. Arun Jain, learned Senior Advocate

appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently argued that the Hon'ble

Supreme Court while setting aside the award of the Lok Adalat had not

expressed any opinion on the merits of the case and there was sufficient

affirmative evidence on record to prove that suit land was given to the appellant

as the respondent had appeared in the court along with her counsel and filed

written statement wherein she had admitted the claim of the appellant and the

said admission was binding upon her and in view of the over whelming

affirmative evidence on record, it was for the respondent to prove that the

appellant had played fraud on her, but neither any material was brought on

record by the respondent nor any particulars of fraud were mentioned. Hence

findings against the appellant are not justified and the impugned judgment and

decrees of the courts below being perverse are required to be set aside. I have heard learned counsel for the appellant and perused the

impugned judgment and decrees of the courts below. I have also perused the

testimony of PW1 Vijay Kumar Sharma and PW7 Bhim Singh as pointed out by

the counsel for the appellant in support of his case. Undisputedly, the respondent is the owner of the suit property.

Again there is no dispute that there is neither any documentary evidence

establishing the transfer of title of suit land to the appellant with regard to the suit

property nor there is any documentary evidence to establish the possession of

the appellant over the suit land. In none of the documents placed on record by

the appellant, it has been mentioned that he came into possession of any part of

the suit land about 10 years back from the date of filing of the suit. No khasra RSA No. 669 of 2010 5 girdawari of the suit land or any other revenue record has been placed on record

to prove that appellant came into possession of the suit land. In the jamabandis

of the suit land for the year 1996-97 Ex.DW7/1 and for the year 2002-03,

Ex.PW7/2, the respondent is recorded as owner in possession of the suit land., It

is well settled that presumption of truth is attached to the aforesaid entries of

jamabandies unless the same are rebutted by some evidence. There is

absolutely no documentary evidence on record to controvert the aforesaid

presumption of truth attached to the revenue record. The oral evidence placed

on record by the appellant is not sufficient to controvert the aforesaid

presumption of truth. The argument raised by the counsel for the appellant on

the basis of the alleged admission of respondent in the proceedings before the

Permanent Lok Adalat are of no help to him as the award of the Permanent Lok

Adalat dated 7.5.2003 on the basis of the aforesaid admissions of the appellant

was set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Moreover, on an application filed

by the respondent for amendment of written statement, the court had allowed her

to amend her earlier written statement and by virtue of said amendment, the

earlier admitted written statement of the respondent stands nullified. Moreover,

the amended written statement, she had completely denied the case of the

appellant. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I find no merit in this appeal

and it cannot be said that findings of the lower Appellate Court are perverse

warranting interference of this court under Section 100 of the Code of Civil

Procedure. Thus no substantial question of law arises in this appeal.

 Dismissed.