1. Supplementary affidavit filed by the applicant and counter affidavit filed by the informant are taken on record. 2. Heard Sri Anil Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Rajeev Kumar Rai, learned counsel for the victim Hari Om, Sri Pramod Kumar, learned counsel for victim Vivek Kumar and Sri Santosh Nigam, learned AGA for the State. 3. The instant bail application has been filed seeking release of the applicant on bail in Case Crime No. 218 of 2023, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 342 , 506 IPC, Police Station Jewar, District Greator Noida (Commissionerate Gautam Budh Nagar) during pendency of the trial. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that FIR of the present case was lodged on 21.08.2023 against applicant and ten others and as per allegation by playing fraud under the pretext to provide job they duped the victims and received huge amount from them and Rs. 2.5 lakhs were transferred by victim Hari Om in his account and, however, there is also allegation that applicant also received Rs. 3,38,000/- through victim Vivek Kumar through RTGS and about Rs. 50,000/- through PhonePe but entire allegation leveled against the applicant is totally false. 5. He further submits that except Rs. 2.5 lakhs, which was transferred in the account of applicant by Hari Om, applicant did not receive even single penny and with regard to amount of Rs. 2.5 lakhs applicant has already settled his dispute with Hari Om and demand drafts of Rs. 2.5 lakhs have been handed over to the learned counsel for Hari Om today in the Court and Hari Om is having no objection if applicant be released on bail. 6. He next submits, as far as allegation with regard to victim Vivek Kumar is concerned, admittedly not even single money was transferred by Vivek Kumar directly in the account of applicant and as per victim Vivek Kumar, the amount of Rs. 3,38,000/- was transferred in the account of Pappan Singh, who is owner of car agency and on the basis of that amount applicant purchased the new car but this allegation is totally false as the alleged amount was transferred in the account of Pappan Singh by the victim Vivek Kumar on 28.10.2020 while invoice of the car has been issued on 26.10.2020 and this fact is evident from the invoice, which has been annexed at page-124 of the paper-book. 7. He further submits that even as per allegation all the alleged forgery was committed in the year 2020 and FIR was lodged in the year 2023 i.e. after three years. 8. He further submits that applicant is not having any criminal history and all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate and in the present matter applicant is in jail since 15.07.2024. 9. Per contra, learned AGA as well as learned counsel for the victim Vivek Kumar opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that from the short counter affidavit filed by the victim Vivek Kumar, it is evident that on the basis of money transferred to Pappan Singh, applicant purchased the vehicle but they could not dispute the fact that FIR of the present case was lodged after three years and invoice of the car was issued on 26.10.2020 while payment was made on 28.10.2020. 10. Learned counsel for the Hari Om conceded the fact that matter between Hari Om and applicant has been settled out of the Court and he has received demand drafts of total Rs. 2.5 lakhs and Hari Om is having no objection if applicant be released on bail. 11. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record of the case. 12. However, as per allegation under the false promise to provide job applicant duped the victims and received huge amount of money from them but as per record only Rs. 2.5 lakhs were transferred in the account of the applicant by Hari Om and with regard to Rs. 2.5 lakhs, dispute between applicant and Hari Om has been settled out of the Court and today learned counsel for the applicant has handed over two demand drafts of total Rs. 2.5 lakhs to Sri Rajeev Kumar Rai, learned counsel for Hari Om and Hari Om is having no objection if applicant be released on bail. 13. Further, as far as allegation of cheating and fraud with regard to victim Vivek Kumar is concerned, however his counsel submitted that applicant by playing fraud duped Rs. 3,38,000/- and on the basis of money, which was transferred by victim Vivek, applicant purchased a new car but it reflects that he transferred the money to the car agency on 28.10.2020 while invoice of the car was issued in favour of the applicant on 26.10.2020. Further, even FIR of the present case was lodged after three years. 14. Further, applicant is not having any criminal history and all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate and in the present matter applicant is in jail since 15.07.2024. 15. Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case discussed above, in my view, applicant is entitled to be released on bail. 16. Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant bail application is allowed. 17. Let the applicant - Manish Jadaun be released on bail in the aforesaid case on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- 18. In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution will be at liberty to move an application before this Court for cancellation of the bail of the applicant. 19. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. Order Date :- 4.10.2024
 
AK Pandey