1. Heard learned counsel for the applicants, learned opposite party No. 2, learned AGA and perused the record. 2. The present applicants have invoked the inherent power of this Court under Section 482 CrPC beseeching the quashing of charge sheet dated 10.07.2019 as well as entire proceedings of Criminal Case No.1628 of 2019 ( State Vs. Pankaj and others ), arising out of Case Crime No.03 of 2019, under Sections 498A , 323 IPC and Section 3 / 4 of D.P. Act, Police Station Gahmar, District Ghazipur, pending in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghazipur. 3. In pursuance of the order date 19.12.2019 passed by this Court, parties were appeared before the Mediation Centre to explore the possibility of reconciliation. After due process of mediation, both the parties have inked settlement agreement dated 21.03.2021, which has been submitted by The Joint Registrar/In-charge AHCMCC. 4. For ready reference, final settlement agreement dated 21.03.2021 quoted hereinbelow: By signing this Agreement the Parties hereto state that the Application U/S 482 No. 47063 of 2019 and all disputes differences in this regard have been amicably settled by the Parties hereto through the process of Conciliation/Mediation. Date: 21.03.2021
 
SC" 5. It is submitted that in pursuance of the terms and conditions of the settlement agreement dated 21.03.2021, entire money has been given to the opposite party No.2 (wife) and now nothing remains to be decided by this Court. Learned counsel for the applicants further submits that, in the above eventuality of the settlement agreement dated 21.03.2023 took place between the parties, the instant application may be allowed and the criminal proceeding initiated against the present applicants may be quashed. It is further submitted that both the parties have entered into settlement agreement through process of mediation on their own volition and without any duress. Both the parties have buried the hatchet and there is no grudges between them against each other. To quash the cognizance order as well as criminal proceeding, learned counsel for the applicant has relied upon the following judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court :- 6. In a recent judgment passed by a Three Judges' Bench of the Apex Court in the Case of Parbatbhai Aahir alias Parbatbhai Bhimsinhbhai Karmur and others Vs. State of Gujarat and another , reported in AIR 2017 SC 4843, Hon'ble Supreme Court has summarized the ratio of all the cases decided earlier with respect to quashing of F.I.R./charge-sheet/criminal proceeding on the ground of settlement between the parties and expounded the ten categories in which application under Section 482 could be entertained for quashing the F.I.R./charge-sheet/criminal proceeding on the basis of compromise. Para no. 15 of the said judgement summarizing the proposition in this respect is reproduced below:- 7. Learned AGA has no objection, in case, the instant application is decided by this Court on the basis of compromise took place between the parties before the Mediation Centre. 8. Learned counsel for the opposite party No. 2 has nodded the factum of the compromise entered into between the parties and he has no objection, if the instant application is decided finally on the basis of the settlement agreement. He also submits that both the parties have voluntarily entered into compromise and opposite party no. 2 does not wants to prosecute the present case against the applicants any more as no dispute remains between the parties. 9. Having considered the settlement agreement dated 21.03.2023 and with the assistance of the aforesaid guidelines, keeping in view the nature of gravity and severity of the offence, which are more particular in private dispute, it is deemed proper that in order to meet the ends of justice, the present proceeding should be quashed. In result, dispute between the parties will put to an end, peace will be resorted and relationship between them will be smooth. No useful purpose would be served to keep the present matter pending inasmuch as both the parties have buried the hatchet and as the time passes, it will be difficult to prove the guilt of the accused. The continuation of criminal proceeding would cause oppression and prejudice. 10. In view of the aforesaid pronouncements of the Hon'ble Apex Court and in the light of the settlement agreement arrived at between the parties, the present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is hereby allowed. The entire criminal proceeding of the aforementioned case is hereby quashed. 11. Let a copy of the order be transmitted to the concerned lower Court for necessary action. Order Date :- 12.12.2023
 
Mini