For the commission of offence punishable under Sections 406 and 420 of Indian Penal Code, hereinafter being referred to as ' IPC ' only,

the FIR No.380 dated 24.07.2025, has been lodged in Police Station Karnal

Civil Lines, District Karnal. In the above mentioned case, the petitioner is

apprehending arrest, and therefore, for the benefit of anticipatory bail he has

approached this Court, by virtue of present petition under Section 482 of

'Bharatiya Nagrik Surakhsa Sanhita 2023'. 2. In nut-shell the facts emerging from record are that the FIR of

this case came into being at the instance of 'Amit Kumar', hereinafter being

referred to as "complainant" only. It was stated by the above named

complainant that 'Vikas Yadav' (petitioner herein) had induced him and his

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 27-02-2026 02:15:34 ::: CRM-M No.43484 of 2025 (O&M) 2 family members to invest money in Steps Farming India (OPC) Pvt. Ltd.

and that it was assured by the petitioner that his company was in the

business of fertilizer and plantation. According to complainant acting upon

the above mentioned false representation they invested money in the

company of petitioner, and that the money was transferred through

electronic mode either into the account of the company, or by Google Pay to

the petitioner. It was further alleged by the complainant that the above

mentioned money has not been usurped by the petitioner and this way the

petitioner has been subjected to fraud for a sum of Rs.6,75,197/-. 3. It is the case of the prosecution that in view of above mentioned

complaint formal FIR of this case was lodged and the investigation taken

up. 4. Heard. 5. It has been contended by learned Senior counsel for the

petitioner that petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case, and

that in fact, the petitioner himself is the victim of fraud and cheating. While

claiming that the dispute between the petitioner and the complainants is with

regard to payment of money only, it has been contended by learned Senior

counsel for the petitioner that the remedy available to the complainant for

redressal of his grievance lies in Civil Court, but by twisting the facts a

dispute of civil nature has been given the colour of criminal case. While

claiming that nothing is to be recovered from the possession of petitioner,

and that his custodial interrogation will not serve any purpose, the learned

Senior counsel for the petitioner has requested the benefit of anticipatory

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 27-02-2026 02:15:35 ::: CRM-M No.43484 of 2025 (O&M) 3 bail for the petitioner. 6. The learned State counsel being assisted by learned counsel for

the complainant has controverted the above mentioned arguments. It has

been contended by learned counsel for the complainant that the petitioner

while making a false promise has duped the complainant and other

investors, and that the intention of the petitioner right from the very

beginning was to cheat the complainant, and thus, merely by saying that the

dispute is of civil nature, the petitioner cannot be exonerated of his illegal

acts. 7. The record has been perused carefully. 8. A perusal of the record shows that there are several factors

which are required to be taken into consideration at this stage. Those factors

are:- 9. If the cumulative effect of all the abovementioned factors,

involved in the instant case, is taken into consideration, it leads to a

conclusion that the petitioner is entitled for the benefit of anticipatory bail,

and that the present petition deserves to be allowed. 10. In view of above-mentioned discussions, the present petition is

hereby allowed and the petitioner is accorded the benefit of anticipatory bail.

It is hereby directed that in the event of his arrest, the petitioner shall be

released on bail on furnishing bonds to the satisfaction of arresting officer.

The petitioner will join the investigation as and when called by the

Investigating Officer. He shall also abide by the conditions as specified under Section 482(2) of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. 11. Pending miscellaneous application(s), if any, shall stand

disposed of. (SURYA PARTAP SINGH)
 JUDGE
05.02.2026
Manoj Bhutani

 Whether speaking/reasoned Yes/No
 Whether reportable Yes/No

 4 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 27-02-2026 02:15:35 :::