ARVIND KUMAR, J: The defendant No.1 took up the stand that his physical
possession over the suit land is adverse, exclusive, continuous and hostile
since the last 46/47 years. The decree dated 3.3.1989 was in the knowledge
of defendants therein and by virtue of aforesaid decree, he became owner of
the suit property. After contest, the learned trial Court held that defendant
Budhu died much prior to the passing of the impugned decree i.e. on RSA No. 3512 of 2011 2 5.2.1958, and as such, the same is a nullity and not binding on the rights of
the plaintiffs as well as defendants 4 to 9. It was accordingly held, that the
plaintiffs and defendants 4 to 9 are still the owners of the suit property of
their share in the suit and are entitled to joint possession notwithstanding
the decree passed against them and the mutation and subsequent revenue
entries are liable to be corrected. The appeal filed by defendant No.1 has
been dismissed and the findings of the learned trial Court have been
affirmed, leading to the institution of the present second appeal. Counsel for the appellant-defendant No.1 has contended
that the suit of the plaintiffs was barred by limitation as the decree passed in
the earlier suit in 1989 was challenged in the year 2001. Counsel further
contended that defendant-appellant was in possession of the land for the last
40 years and qua that fact, the Courts below have given a perverse finding.
It is also contended that while hearing the appeal, the first appellate Court
did not refer to all the issues which were framed by the trial Court. Counsel
specifically tried to show that there was no mention of issue No.2-A in the
judgment and on this basis, he tried to raise an argument that the first
appellate Court dismissed the appeal without application of mind. After hearing the counsel for the appellant, I am of the
view that there is no merit in the appeal. Both the Courts below have
concurrently held that Puran Chand, father of defendant No.1, as per
revenue record was a tenant in the land in dispute. During his life time, he
never challenged the entry with regard to tenancy. Once it is established
that there was a relationship of landlord and tenant, the plea raised that
defendant-appellant was in possession of the land in dispute for the last 40
years and thus, entitled to benefit of adverse possession, is not maintainable.
So far as perversity of recording a finding on the issues struck by the Courts
below is concerned, that argument is also not sustainable because
admittedly, decree dated 3.3.1989 on the basis of which the appellant had
got mutations and other revenue entries recorded in his favour was obtained
against a dead person, namely, Budhu, who is proved to have died on
5.2.1958, i.e. much prior to the filing of suit by the defendant-appellant in
the year 1987. So far as the contention raised by the counsel for the
appellant with regard to limitation of suit is concerned, the Courts below
after following the laid down by this Court in Sarwan Kumar v. Shyam RSA No. 3512 of 2011 3 Mangla 1990( 1) PLR 152 and Bhim Singh and others v. Zile Singh and
others 2006(1) PLJ 420, have rightly held that where the decree is a nullity
having been obtained by playing fraud, it can be challenged without bar of
limitation as and when the affected person comes to know about the same.
In the present case, the decree had been obtained against dead person,
namely, Budhu, in the year 1989 without impleading the plaintiffs as well as
other legal representatives as parties to the suit. The plaintiffs had come to
know about the decree passed against Budhu in 1989 when they went to
Halqa Patwari in 2001 for obtaining jamabandi. On the basis of this plea
taken by the plaintiffs, both the Courts below have held the suit to be within
limitation of three years from the date of knowledge. So far as the argument raised by the counsel for the
appellant that there was non-application of mind by the first appellate Court
while deciding the appeal is concerned, the same is also not sustainable
because all the pleas raised before the Court had been dealt with at length
by the Presiding Officer while recording his finding. In this regard, a
reference may be made to para 13 of the judgment wherein it has been held
that earlier decree obtained in civil suit No. 809 of 1987 on the ground that
the defendant-appellant was in possession of the land in dispute for the last
more than 30 years, has been held to be a decree passed against a dead
person and ineffective. Moreover, it has been held that defendant-appellant
had stepped into the shoes of his father and had become co-sharer with other
co-owners and was holding possession. The first appellate Court has held
that being a co-sharer, his possession cannot be hostile and adverse to other
co-owners. It clearly shows that all the issues as raised were fully
considered and answered accordingly. No other argument has been argued. The arguments raised before this Court are based upon
concurrent findings and no question of law, muchless substantial, arises
which requires consideration in the present appeal. Accordingly, there
being no merit in the present appeal, the same is hereby dismissed in limine.