This revision under Section 397 / 401 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure is against the order dated 07.11.2022 passed in Sessions Trial
No.502/2022 by the Court of XIV Additional Sessions Judge, Jabalpur
whereby the trial Court has framed the charge against the applicant
under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The
order framing charge has been assailed by the learned counsel for the
applicant mainly on the ground that the dispute is purely of civil nature
however criminal complaint is made against the applicant to create
pressure upon him. 2. Brief facts of the case which are relevant for disposal of this
revision petition are as under:- Deepak Chouksey purchased the said plot from one Rajkumar
Shrivastava who purchased the said plot from the earlier President of the
Society and not from the present applicant.
2.2 When the dispute arose with regard to title over the said plot, a
suit was filed by the present applicant against Rakesh Burman and
Halke Burman who are the legal heirs of late Shriram Burman for
removal of possession and in the same suit, counter claim was also filed
by Deepak Chouksey seeking declaration and injunction over the said
plot because he was also impleaded lateron as one of the defendants. In 3 the counter claim, said Deepak Chouksey claimed title over the said
plot and injunction against the plaintiff and other defendants for
restraining them from dispossessing him and disturbing his possession.
The said counter-claim was decreed on 29.02.2020 in favour of Deepak
Chouksey and the suit filed by the present applicant was dismissed
granting decree of declaration and injunction in favour of Deepak
Chouksey. 2.3 After getting the decree, the decree-holder i.e. Deepak Chouksey
approached the police and lodged an FIR on 08.01.2022 against the
present applicant and also against defendant Rakesh Barman alleging
fraud that even after knowing the fact that the plot was already sold to
Deepak Chouksey, they had also sold the same plot to Shriram Barman.
The police registered the offence and submitted the charge-sheet. The
trial Court passed the order dated 07.11.2022 framing charge against the
present applicant which is impugned in this revision petition. The said
order is under challenge saying that no case of fraud is made out and the
dispute is purely of civil nature. 3. One of the material fact which is submitted before this Court at
the time of advancing argument by counsel for the respondent No.2 is
that during pendency of the suit, the possession of Deepak Chouksey
was taken back by Shriram Barman and, therefore, it is difficult for him
to get the decree of declaration executed and, therefore, he is pursuing
the fraud committed with him. 4. Shri Khare, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant
submits that no case of fraud even otherwise is made out against the
applicant because the sale deed made in favour of Deepak Chouksey-the
complainant was subsequent to the point of time. Earlier sale deed was
in favour of Shriram Burman and if at all any allegation of fraud can be 4 alleged, that can be alleged by Shriram Burman only but not by Deepak
Chouksey. 5. Counsel for the objector-complainant submits that whatever
nature of litigation contested by the parties before the civil Court that is
altogether different but in view of the facts and circumstances of the
case it is evidently clear that the present applicant being President of the
Society committed a fraud by selling the same plot to two different
persons and, therefore, he is liable to be prosecuted and the trial court
has rightly framed the charges against him by the impugned. 6. Considering the submissions made by the learned counsel for the
parties and after perusal of record it is clear that as per the available
facts the applicant was an elected President of Anusuchit Jaati/Janujati
Awasiya Bhavan Nirman Sahkari Samit, Bhim Nagar, Jabalpur (for
short 'Society'). In discharge of his official duty, the petitioner executed
a sale deed on 16.05.2012 in favour of Shriram Burman transferring the
plot No. E.W.S.-A. Much prior to the aforesaid transaction, a sale deed
dated 13.01.1989 also got executed with respect to Society's plot No.
246 by Shri Khushal Rao in favour of Shri Raj Kumar Shrivastava. In
2014, the plot No. 246 alienated by Shri Raj Kumar Shrivastava in
favour of Deepak Chouksey (complainant) by sale deed dated
14.01.2014. 7. Thereafter, Rakesh Burman son of late Shri Shriram Burman and
his family members were encroaching upon the land, which was
adjacent to plot No. E.W.S.-A. Hence, a Civil Suit bearing RCS-A No.
3900017/2015 was filed by the applicant in the capacity of President of
the Society against Shri Rakesh Burman. During pendency of the suit,
fresh election for the post of President in the aforesaid Society
conducted in which applicant had to demit her office in 2017. The newly 5 appointed President failed to pursue the civil suit and resultantly the suit
was proceeded ex-parte although Deepak Chouksey made an application
for adding him as a defendant in the said civil suit. The application was
allowed and then Deepak Chouksey filed a counter claim in the civil suit
seeking declaration of title with respect to plot No. 246. The counter
claim was allowed by judgment and decree dated 29.02.2020 and
afterward Deepak Chouksey filed a complaint on 21.09.2021 against the
applicant and also against Rakesh Burman alleging that they have
committed fraud and cheated with respect to Plot No. 246. On the basis
of said complaint dated 21.09.2021, an FIR got registered on 08.01.2022
vide Crime No. 7/2022 at Gwarighat Police Station, Jabalpur for the
offence under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal
Code. Thereafter, final report was also submitted on 10.05.2022 and
charges were framed by order dated 07.11.2022 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of IPC. 8. Thus, in view of the aforesaid facts, there is not an iota of doubt
that the dispute between the parties is purely of civil nature. The present
applicant being President of the Society executed a sale deed on
16.05.2012 in favour of Shriram Burman and sale deed dated
13.01.1989 in respect of Plot No. 246 executed by one Khushal Rao in
favour of Raj Kumar Shrivastava then in 2014 Raj Kumar Shrivastava
executed the sale deed of Plot No. 246 in favour of Deepak Chouksey
on 14.01.2014. Initially it was a sale deed dated 13.01.1989 and
thereafter it was a sale deed dated 16.05.2012. 9. Dealing with situation, as existing in the present case, the
Supreme Court as well as the High Courts of the various States time and
again expressed their views and made observations, which are as
follows: A clarification 23. When we say that execution of a sale deed by a
 person, purporting to convey a property which is not
 his, as his property, is not making a false document
 and therefore not forgery, we should not be understood
 as holding that such an act can never be a criminal
 offence. If a person sells a property knowing that it
 does not belong to him, and thereby defrauds the
 person who purchased the property, the person
 defrauded, that is, the purchaser, may complain that
 the vendor committed the fraudulent act of cheating.
 But a third party who is not the purchaser under the
 deed may not be able to make such complaint." Emphasis supplied
 In Jitendra Kumar Goyal and another vs. State of U.P. and
another reported in 2013 SCC OnLine All 13090, the Allahabad High
Court dealing with similar situation observed as under:- 15. Further for constituting an of fence under sections
467 , 468 & 471 I.P.G., the ingredients of forgery must
be satisfied. The offence of forgery has been defined in section 463 I.P.C. which is as under-- 16. Admittedly, the name of the complainant was
recorded in the year 1999 and the sale-deed in favour
of revi sionists was executed in the year 1997. It is also
admitted fact that since 1962, four more registered
sale-deeds have been executed regarding the same land
in dispute. It is also admitted position that the said five
registered sale-deeds have not been challenged before
any Court of law and they still hold good. It is also
admitted position that the complain ant/opposite party
No. 2 has also not challenged the registered sale-deed
exe cuted in favour of revisionists in the year 1997. Section 239 Cr. P.C. provides that if, upon considering
the police report and the documents sent with it un der section 173 and making such exami nation, if any, of
the accused as the Magistrate thinks necessary and
after giving the prosecution and the accused an
opportunity of being heard, the Mag istrate considers
the charge against the accused to be groundless, he
shall dis charge the accused, and record its rea sons for
so doing. Accordingly for dis charge, the Magistrate
has come to a conclusion that the charges are ground
less. 17. Learned Counsel for the oppo site party No. 2 has
relied upon Sanghi Brothers (Indore) Pvt. Ltd. v. Sanjay Chaudhary [2009 (64) ACC 454 (SC).]
in which Hon'ble the Apex Court has held as under:-- 18. Accordingly, the Magistrate was required to see
that the material on record was sufficient to connect
the accused with the trial. But in the instant case, the
complainant had no right, title or possession over the
land in dispute prior to 1999 while the sale-deed has
been executed in the year 1997. It is also relevant to
mention that it was the 5th registered sale-deed since
1962 and none of the said sale-deeds have been
challenged before competent Court of law. Apparently,
the complainant had no right, title or interest over the
land in dispute prior to 1999, howsoever, that the legal
proceedings were pending since long It is also not
alleged as to whether present revisionists were party to
the said litigation. It is also not disputed that the land
belonged to Panchaiu' Gausala and the then Secretary
of the Gausala had authorized one Basudeo to execute
the sale-deed in the year 1962 because the land in
dispute had fallen within abadi and it was in-fructous
land. Since 1962 to 1997 five salg-deeds have been
executed. It is also relevant to mention that the total
area of Gata No. 320-Ka is a huge one and the
complainant asserts his rights over 1600 square meter
area which is also not identifiable because no
boundaries have been mentioned. It is also not clear
that whether the said 1600 square meter area falls
within the boundary of the land purchased by the
revisionists or not. It is also relevant to mention that
the said sale-deed was executed in the year 1997 and
the name of the complainant was recorded in the year
1999 but the F.I.R. has been lodged in the year 2008
without any explanation as to why the complainant had
not asserted his rights right from 1999 when his name
was mutated in the revenue records. There is no 10 explanation as to why the complainant remained silent
for almost 10 years to assert his rights. 26. In Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar , [(2009) 8 SCC 751.] the Hon. Apex Court has held that as under-- When a sale-deed is executed conveying a property 11 claiming ownership thereto, it may be possible for the
purchaser under such sale-deed, to allege that the
vendor has cheated him by making a false
representation of ownership and fraudulently induced
him to part with the sale consideration. But in this case
the complaint is not by the purchaser. On the other
hand, the purchaser is made a co-accused. It is not the
case of the complainant that any of the accused tried to
deceive him either by making a false or misleading
representation or by any other action or omission, nor
is it his case that they offered him any fraudulent or
dishonest inducement to deliver any property or to
consent to the retention thereof by any person or to
intentionally induce him to do or omit to do anything
which he would not do or omit if he were not so
deceived. Nor did the complainant allege that the first
appellant pretended to be the complainant while
executing the sale-deeds. Therefore, it cannot be said
that the first accused by the act of executing sale-deeds
in favour of the second accused or the second accused
by reason of-ieing the purchaser, or the third, fourth
and fifth accused, by reason of being the witness,
scribe and stamp vendor in regard to the sale-deeds,
deceived the complainant in any manner. As the
ingredients of cheating as stated in section 415 are not
found, it cannot be said that there was an offence
punishable under sections 417 , 418 , 419 or 420 of the
Code. When we say that execution of a sale-deed by a
person, purporting to convey a property which is not
his, as his property, is not making a false document
and therefore not forgery, we should not be understood
as holding that such an act can never be a criminal
offence. If a person sells a property knowing that it
does not belong to him, and thereby defrauds the
person who purchased the property, the person
defrauded, that is the purchaser, may complain that the
vendor committed the fraudulent act of cheating. But a
third party who is not the purchaser under the deed
may not be able to make such complaint. The term
'fraud' is not defined in the Code. The dictionary
definition of 'fraud' is "deliberate deception, treachery
or cheating intended to gain advantage". Section 17 of
the Contract Act, 1872 defines "fraud" with reference
to a party to a contract. In Dr. Vimla v. Delhi
Administration , [AIR 1963 SC 1572.] this Court 12 explained the meaning of the expression "defraud"
thus; 29. As mentioned above, for consti tuting the offence
under section 420 I.P.C. the cheating has to be proved.
In the present case, the complainant was not recorded
as tenure holder of the land in dispute at the time of
execution of the sale-deed in the year 1997, there fore,
there was absolutely no question to cheat the
complainant. At the most, it could have been said that
Bhagwan Das had committed cheating by executing a
sale-deed without any rights. It has been alleged in the
F.I.R. that the accused persons knowingly that
Bhagwan Das was not the owner of the land had got
the sale-deed in their favour. The rights and title of the
parties regarding im movable property are also derived
by documents. Admittedly, Bhagwan Das had
purchased this land from Mohan Aanand Teerth in the
year 1983 and he remained owner in possession of the
land in dispute since 1983 to the date of execution of
sale-deed dated 17.4.1997. The rights, title and
possession of Pa-ramhansh Bhagwan Das was not chal
lenged during this period. A bona fide purchaser of the
immovable property is required to see the title of the
seller. When Paramhansh Bhagwan Das was having
sale-deed in his favour since 1983 without any
interruption, then nothing else was required to be seen
by the subsequent purchasers i.e. the revisionists who
had also purchased the said piece of land for a
consideration by a registered sale-deed. It has also not
been mentioned in the F.I.R. that why Bhagwan Das
was not the owner of the land in dispute. Merely
saying that Bhagwan Das was not owner of the land in
dispute is not sufficient. The best course for the 13 complainant was to file a civil suit either for
 declaration or for cancellation of the sale-deed in
 favour of Bhagwan Das but the said remedies have not
 been adopted. It appears that the complainant feared
 that in Civil Court he shall not be able to prove his title
 or to disprove the title of Bhagwan Das, therefore, he
 has adopted this short cut of lodging the F.I.R. It also
 appears that the Investigating Officer has also not
 taken pains in collecting the evidence that why
 Bhagwan Das was not the owner of the land in dispute
 since 1983. I fail to understand as to why no
 explanation has been given in the F.I.R. that since
 1999 till 2008 why the complainant had not asserted
 his rights be-fore the competent Civil Court It appears
 that the Investigating Officer has submitted the charge-
 sheet either under some pressure or for extraneous
 consideration. The ingredients of cheating and forgery
 are not at all made out by the evidence on record. 30. For the facts and circumstances mentioned above, I
 am of the opinion that the charges against the
 revisionists are groundless and the findings of Chief
 Judicial Magistrate, Mathura that this question can be
 decided only after recording the evidence under sections 137 , 154 and 146 of Indian Evidence Act are
 perverse. It is a dispute of purely civil nature which
 has been given the criminal colour just to pressurise
 the revisionists. In the result, the revision is allowed.
 The impugned order dated 16.1.2010 is set aside. The
 revisionists are discharged for the offences of section
 420 , 467 , 468 & 471 I.P.C. relating to Case Crime No.
 232 of 2008, RS. Brin-davan, District Mathura." In Chandra Shekhar vs. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in
2016 SCC OnLine M.P. 2805 the High Court of Madhya Pradesh
dealing with the similar situation observed as under:- as defined in Section 464 of IPC, which is sine-qua-
non for constituting offence under Section 467 and 468 of IPC, therefore, the learned trial Judge has
committed a serious error in framing charge for the
offences under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 read with
120-B of IPC . Hence, the petitioner deserves to be
discharged from the aforesaid matter. 12. As regards law relating to framing of charge,
in State of M.P. v. S.B. Johari , AIR 2000 SC 665, it has
been held as under: 13. Dealing with the issue of quashment of charge, it
has further been held as under in the aforesaid case: 14. In Niranjan Singh Karam Singh
Punjabi v. Jitendra Bhimraj Bijjayya , AIR 1990 SC
1962, the issue as to whether at the stage of framing
the charge, trial Court should marshal the materials on
the record of the case was considered by the apex
Court in the light of the provisions contained in Section 227 and 228 of the Cr.P.C as well as its earlier
decisions in State of Bihar v. Ramesh Singh ( 1977) 4
SCC 39, Union of India v. Prafulla Kumar
Samal ( 1979) 3 SCC 4, and Supdt. of Remembencer of
Legal Affairs, West Bengal v. Anil Kumar
Bhunja (1979) 4 SCC and it was held as under:- 15. In this connection reference can also be made to
 the pronouncement of the apex Court in the case
 of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal 1992 Supp (1) SCC
 335 wherein it has been held that even if after
 accepting all the allegations made in the charge-sheet
 the alleged offence is not made out, then it will be
 appropriate to quash the charges qua the person against
 whom the offence is not made out. 16. In the instant case, even after accepting all the
 allegations made in the charge sheet at its face value, it
 cannot be said that the necessary ingredients to
 constitute offences under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471
 read with 120B of IPC are present against the
 petitioner because no specific allegation has been
 made against him as regards offence of cheating under section 420 IPC or offence under section 467 , 468 and 471 IPC which require that making of false document
 should be there, hence charges framed against him are
 liable to be quashed." In Union of India vs. Prafulla Kumar Samal and another reported in (1979) 3 SCC 4, the Supreme Court has laid down the scope
of Section 227 of CrP.C. and observed as to when the Court can pass an
order of discharge. Dealing with the scope of Section 227 of Cr.P.C. the
Supreme Court observed as under:- The words "not sufficient ground for proceeding
 against the accused" clearly show that the Judge is not 16 a mere post office to frame the charge at the behest of
 the prosecution, but has to exercise his judicial mind to
 the facts of the case in order to determine whether a
 case for trial has been made out by the prosecution. In
 assessing this fact, it is not necessary for the court to
 enter into the pros and cons of the matter or into a
 weighing and balancing of evidence and probabilities
 which is really his function after the trial starts. At the
 stage of Section 227, the Judge has merely to sift the
 evidence in order to find out whether or not there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.
 The sufficiency of ground would take within its fold
 the nature of the evidence recorded by the police or the
 documents produced before the court which ex facie
 disclose that there are suspicious circumstances against
 the accused so as to frame a charge against him."
 Further, in the case of Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad vs.
Dilip Nathumal Chordia and another reported in (1998) 1 SCC 715,
the Supreme Court again dealt with Sections 227 and 228 of Cr.P.C. and
observed as to when an order of discharge can be passed in favour of
accused and observed as under:- 10. Considering the aforesaid factual aspect of the matter and in view
 of the observations made by the Supreme Court as well as the High
 Courts in the cases referred hereinabove, this Court has no hesitation to
 hold that the dispute is purely of civil nature because as per the
 unvarnished and undisputed facts of the case, a sale deed got executed in
 respect of a plot of the Society and it got sold to different persons at
 different times through registered sale deeds and civil suit was also filed
 and the same was decreed. It is also an admitted fact that the
 complainant-Deepak Chouksey after getting declaration of title from the
 civil court made complaint to the police alleging fraud against present
 applicant, who was the then President and executed the sale deed in the
 year 2012. Thus it is clear that said complaint was made by the
 complainant just to satisfy his ego for his personal score and under such
 circumstances, prosecution cannot be allowed to be continued because it
 is nothing but an abuses of process of law. 11. In view of the aforesaid factual and legal position, I am of the
 opinion that the prosecution initiated against the applicant vide Crime
 No. 7/2022 and the subsequent proceedings thereof are liable to be set
 aside. Accordingly, this revision is allowed. The order dated 7.11.2022
 passed in ST No. 502/2022 by learned XIV Additional Sessions Judge,
 Jabalpur framing charge against present applicant and the consequent
 proceedings thereof are hereby set aside. (SANJAY DWIVEDI)
 JUDGE

Raghvendra

 RAGHVENDRA
 SHARAN SHUKLA
 2024.01.09
 16:28:58 +05'30'