This Writ Petition is filed seeking an order to permit the petitioner to

 operate her bank account bearing No. 50200033552350, maintained with the

 first respondent bank branch without any hindrance upon removing any clog on

 the same, created by the second respondent. 2. The brief facts are as follows:- 3. On 31st October 2020, one Abhilash Bhimrao Vase, resident of

 Dabki Road, Akola, gave a complaint stating that he has been de-frauded to the

 tune of Rs.1.5 lakhs by using credit card by unknown person. During the course

 of investigation, it was found that a sum of Rs.1,49,995/- was missing from his

 account and the same amount was spent from the account of the complainant

 from his HDFC account into Paytm Wallet and also Rezor Wallet. 4. Further, enquiry revealed that it was connected to the phone

 number of the petitioner's husband, which is attached to this petitioner, which

 also connected to the bank account belonging to the petitioner. The cyber

 criminals used to defraud the people and park the amount in certain accounts.

 So, the Investigation Officer was of the view that the husband of the petitioner

 would have also been defrauded. So, an intimation was given to him to join the

 investigation. But, there was no proper response. So, he sent a representation to

 Akola to enquire about the transaction. So, the husband of the petitioner was

 also arrayed as on accused since no proper response was given. He was

 requested to join the investigation through telephonic communication.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 3/8 W.P.(MD)No.8060 of 2021 5. Moreover, the first respondent has no objection for granting

 permission to the petitioner for operating the account by maintaining

 Rs.39,999/-, which has been utilized by the use of the mobile number of

 husband of the petitioner namely, Kathiravan Parkunam. 6. Heard both sides. 7. The only request that has been made by the learned Senior Counsel

 during the course of argument is that the petitioner as well as her husband must

 co-operate with the Investigation Officer based upon the complaint given by

 one Abhilash Bhimrao Vase. But, in spite of telephonic request, there is no

 proper co-operation either from the petitioner or her husband. So, he wants the

 matter to be kept pending to see the conduct of the petitioner and her husband. 8. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that

 she and her husband are always ready to co-operate with the Investigation

 Officer and ready to make a telephonic conversation and due to the pandemic

 situation, they are not in a position to travel to Akola.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 4/8 W.P.(MD)No.8060 of 2021 9. But, the learned counsel for the second respondent would submit

 that even the petitioner and her husband were not responding the telephonic

 conversation, as mentioned in the counter, a case was registered and the

 account of the petitioner was freezed. The involvement of the husband of the

 petitioner is also suspected and so, he was arrayed as an accused. It is the duty

 and obligation, on the part of the petitioner and her husband to co-operate with

 the Investigation Officer. 10. However, in the counter, it has been stated that the petitioner may

 be permitted to operate the account by maintaining Rs.39,999/- as minimum

 amount in the account, which is also involved in the occurrence. 11. I am of the considered view that the contention made by the

 second respondent is reasonable and acceptable one. The petitioner is running a

 Software Developing Company and she requires money transaction for running

 the business. So, considering this fact, this petition is ordered with the

 following conditions:- https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 5/8 W.P.(MD)No.8060 of 2021 (ii) The first respondent herein also must ensure the maintenance of

 the minimum amount as mentioned above and at no point of time, the first

 respondent shall permit to withdraw this amount also. (iii) The petitioner and her husband are directed to co-operate with

 the Investigation Officer fully and effectively and if there is any

 non-cooperation on the part of the petitioner, the second respondent is at liberty

 to take appropriate action and steps, in this regard. The undertaking given by

 the learned counsel for the petitioner, on this aspects is also placed on record. 12.With this above direction, this Writ Petition stands disposed of.

 Consequently, the connected miscellaneous petition is closed. No costs. Note: In view of the present lock down owing to COVID-19
 pandemic, a web copy of the order may be utilized for official
 purposes, but, ensuring that the copy of the order that is presented
 is the correct copy, shall be the responsibility of the
 advocate/litigant concerned. To

 The Assistant Police Inspector,
 Cyber Police Station,
 Office of Superintendent of Police,
 Akola, Maharashtra – 411 001. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 7/8 W.P.(MD)No.8060 of 2021 G.ILANGOVAN , J. dss W.P.(MD)No.8060 of 2021 and WMP(MD)No.6159 of 2021 30.06.2021

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 8/8