1. This is an appeal filed by Gauri and Tara, wife and 

daughter, respectively of late Sh. Bhim assailing order passed by ld. 

Rent Controller on 23.08.14. 2. Facts of the case in brief are that Smt. Nanda had 

instituted eviction petition u/s. 14 (1) (a) Delhi Rent Control Act against present appellant Laxmi, Tara and Gauri W/o. Sh. Bhim. It 

was claimed that premises bearing no. 1454, Block E, Jahangir Puri 

was let out to respondents vide Agreement dated 15.10.07. 

Respondent had paid rent only for one month. They failed to pay 

rent since 01.02.07 to 30.11.09. The rent was Rs.1000/­ per month. 

Notice had been served but despite service of notice no rent was paid 

or tendered. 3. In written statement filed by Laxmi Devi, she claimed 

that Nanda had not approached the court with clean hands. She had 

no right to file the present petition. She had never sold the property ARCT No. 09/15 Page 2 of 6 to any person. Petitioner Nanda in connivance with her brother Ishu 

played fraud on her. She was under her husband's possession of the 

property since 20.10.1976. Her son Bhim had expired on 07.10.09. 

She along with legal heirs of Bhim were joint owners of the property. 

She had prayed for its dismissal claiming that there was no 

relationship of landlord and tenant between them. 4. In the written statement filed by Gauri and Tara who 

were appellants before us, they had claimed that there was no cause 

of action and Nanda had no right, interest or title in the property. 

They had no relationship of landlord and tenant between them. 

Nanda was not rightful owner of the property. According to reply 

submitted by Slum & JJ Department, the property had been allotted 

to Gokul on licence fee basis. All the family members of the allottee 

have the right to live in the property. The plot is not transferable. 

So, there was no occasion for Gokul to sell the property. 5. Ld. Rent Controller in his impugned judgment held that 

Gokul had died and his property fell in the shares of LRs. LR Bhim 

had executed Relinquishment Deed in favour of his mother Laxmi. 

Laxmi thereafter became absolute owner of the property. She 

thereafter entered into Agreement to Sell with Nanda and GPA was ARCT No. 09/15 Page 3 of 6 also registered. Nanda had inducted Laxmi and Bhim as tenant in 

the property. Ld. Rent Controller held that relationship stood 

proved. He had also held that legal notice had also been served upon 

the appellants and ultimately eviction order was passed by him on 

23.08.14 after observing that order u/s. 15 (1) DRC Act had not been 

complied with and so benefit of section 14 (2) DRC Act cannot be 

granted. 6. I have heard ld. counsel for both parties. I have also gone 

through the written submissions filed by ld. counsel for appellants. 7. In the written submissions also, same facts were 

mentioned which were mentioned in Written Statement. It was 

claimed that Nanda had played fraud and forged and fabricated the 

documents. Rent agreement filed by Nanda is invalid. They were 

residing in the property in their own rights. 8. In the grounds of appeal, it was claimed that order of ld. 

Rent Controller was against law. The suit property did not belong to 

Nanda and had been allotted to Gokul, husband of Laxmi and father 

in law of Gauri and grand father of Tara. The property was 

incapable of being transferred since it was a leased property. Only ARCT No. 09/15 Page 4 of 6 allottee and his family members have a right to live in the property. 

It might be true that property was not being capable of transfer but 

still there are registered documents Ex.AW1/2 and Ex.AW1/3 by 

virtue of which Laxmi had entered into Agreement to Sell with 

Nanda. Documents were registered. After entering into the said 

Agreement, Nanda inducted Laxmi and Bhim as tenants on 

15.10.07. Document in this regard is Ex.AW1/8. In all cases, 

landlord need not be owner of the property. One can be a landlord 

without being full fledged owner of the property. In the case in 

hand, status of petitioner Nanda was better than that of Laxmi and 

Bhim. Laxmi and Bhim were legal heirs of allottee Gokul. Legal 

heir Bhim had relinquished his share in favour Laxmi. So Laxmi 

was competent to dispose off the property which she did by way of 

registered GPA, Agreement, Will etc. 9. In ground (C), it was claimed that the alleged rent 

agreement was unregistered and was false and fabricated. 

Petitioner was not cross­examined in the trial court. No defence 

evidence was led either. So, there is no material on the basis of 

which court can conclude that rent agreement was forged and 

fabricated. ARCT No. 09/15 Page 5 of 6 10. In ground (D), it was claimed that appellants were living 

in suit property being LRs of late Gokul. There is no defence 

evidence and I have already endorsed the view taken by ld. Rent 

Controller that the appellants indeed were tenants in the property. 11. In the ground (E), it was claimed that appellants were not 

served with the process of the court. This is a strange submission. 

Respondents/appellants had appeared in the court and had also filed 

their written statement. 12. Remaining grounds need not be discussed and are 

meritless. The appeal filed by appellants calls for dismissal and is 

dismissed. No order as to costs. Trial court record be sent back. 

Appeal file be consigned to record room. Announced in the open Court (PRADEEP CHADDAH)
today i.e. 02.12.2015 Rent Control Tribunal­cum­
 District & Sessions Judge (North)
 Rohini Courts, Delhi ARCT No. 09/15 Page 6 of 6 ARCT No. 09/15 Gauri vs. Vishwanath & Others

02.12.2015

Present: Appellant Gauri in person. Appeal dismissed vide separate judgment dictated and 

pronounced. Trial court record be sent back. Appeal file be consigned to record room. (PRADEEP CHADDAH)
 Rent Control Tribunal­cum­
 District & Sessions Judge (North)
 Rohini District Courts : 02.12.2015 ARCT No. 09/15 Page 7 of 6