1. This order shall dispose of an application moved on
behalf of applicant/accused Bhupesh Arora under section 45 of
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (in short PMLA)
read with section 483 of Bhartiya Nagrika Suraksha Sahinta,
2023 (in short BNSS) read with section 439 of Criminal
Procedure Code, 1973 (in short Cr.P.C ) seeking regular bail in
ECIR/HYZO/46/2022 dated 14.10.2022. Application 2. It is submitted on behalf of the applicant that he is
the permanent resident of Delhi and a law abiding & peace-
loving citizen having deep roots in the society. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 1 of 85
 2.1 It is submitted that he was running a company in the
name & style of Freebie Solutions Pvt. Ltd. providing gift cards
to various organizations & individual clients and in year 2022 he
shifted to Dubai along with his family where he started the
hospitality business. Later in the year 2025, he moved back to
Delhi. 2.2 It is further submitted that he was arrested by police
officials of Cyber Cell, Faridabad in FIR No. 24/2024 dated
26.02.2024 and was enlarged on bail in the said case vide order
dated 09.07.2025. Further, he was apprehended and arrested by
Delhi Police in connection with FIR No. 14/2023 & 17/2023
wherein also he has been enlarged on bail vide order dated
10.07.2025. 2.3 It is submitted that one ECIR/GWZO-II/9/2022
dated 12.04.2022 was registered against him at Guwahati
(Assam) wherein, NBW's were issued against him, however, vide
order dated 21.3.2025, the Hon'ble Guwahati High Court was
pleased to stay the operation of the NBW's and though vide
orders dated 22.01.2025 passed in the above ECIR, he was
declared a Fugitive Economic Offender, however, the Hon'ble
High Court quashed the said order vide order dated 07.04.2025. 2.4 It is submitted that a complaint dated 26.07.2022
was filed by one Mohd. Ghouse Pasha before PS Cyber Crime,

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 2 of 85
 Hyderabad which culminated into FIR No. 1352/2022 U/s 419,
420 1ndian Penal Code, 1807 (in short IPC ) & Sec. 66 (c) & (d) Information Technology Act, 2000 (in short IT Act ) dated
26.07.2022 against unknown accused persons wherein it was
alleged that the complainant had invested Rs. 1.16 Lacs in
'LOXAM App' claiming to be related to a reputed French MNC
group of the same name on the allurement of high returns,
however, neither higher returns were paid nor his principal
amount was returned and thus he was cheated by unknown
persons. The investigation in the said case revealed: Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. which account was opened &
operated by one Virendra Singh, on instructions of a Chinese
national Mr. Jack to whom he gave the Internet Banking
Credentials. b) The defrauded money used to be collected in 29 virtual
accounts & 1 physical account and that the mobile number used
for opening & operating M/s. Xindai Technology Pvt. Ltd. was
also used to open other bank accounts in the name of M/s.
Betench Networks Pvt. Ltd., wherein Sanjay Yadav & Dilip
Yadav were the Directors, on the instructions of Chinese national
Mr. Lee @Li Zhongjun. Furthermore, Sanjay Yadav had opened
15 other accounts and gave the Internet Banking Credentials to
Mr. Chu Chun-Yu (Taiwanese national) on commission basis. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 3 of 85 c) Through these 29 virtual accounts money used to be
transferred to 38 physical mule bank accounts & 23 shell
accounts, wherefrom, further money used to be diverted into
accounts of M/s Ranjan Money Corp and M/s KDS Forex Pvt.
Ltd. wherein Sonu & Laxmi Chand were the Directors and they
were working on instructions of Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik.
On instructions of Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik the said money
used to be transferred to authorized money exchangers of foreign
exchange and these funds used to be converted into foreign
currencies, mostly in USD & UAE Dirham. d) That Sahil Bajaj & Mr. Lee were arrested and their
disclosure statements were recorded. In his disclosure statements
Sahil Bajaj revealed that he, Anurag Aggarwal, Rohit Vij &
Devendra Bassi used to help Mr. Lee in money exchange on the
commission basis and Mr. Lee @ Li-Zhongjun disclosed that he
came to India in January, 2020 on business visa and started
business of selling electronic goods online, which failed after
Covid-19. Then he met another Chinese national Mr. Jack, who
explained him that they are in process of doing fraud business on
pretext of investment & offering huge returns and earn easy
money, to which he agreed. Further, he disclosed that Mr. Jack
had assigned him with work of opening & managing the bank
accounts which are used for frauds, he met Sanjay Yadav,
showed him their group on 'WeChat (an online chatting app),
offered him a job and Sanjay Yadav & his brother-in-law Dilip
Yadav were made Directors of M/s Betench Technologies

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 4 of 85
 Network Pvt. Ltd. Further, he provided one mobile number to
Sanjay Yadav to get it linked with the bank account and after
registering the companies, Sanjay Yadav opened current
accounts in bank and later he used to share the bank details with
Mr. Lee who used to further shared these details with Mr. Jack
while using WeChat, WhatsApp and Telegram. Further, Sanjay
Yadav opened 6 companies on the instructions of Mr. Lee & they
were cheating public in the name of online gaming, investment
funds & were collecting huge monies in these bank accounts. He
further revealed that after crediting amounts in Sanjay's current
accounts, they used to transfer the money to account of M/s
Ranjan Money Corporate Pvt. Ltd., owned by Rohit, Navneet
and Sonu who then collected dollars through exchanges, by
paying amount, which they then handed over to Sahil Bajaj, who
ultimately send the USDs to China, Dubai through hawala. e) That Hyderabad Police recorded the disclosure statement
of Chu Chun-Yu (Taiwanese national) who disclosed that, during
May 2022 he went to Combodia on a business work, where he
met many people running gambling websites and also met one
Mr. X (Singapore passport holder) who offered him job while
explaining how Indians are interested in Cricket & gaming apps
to which he agreed and upon his instructions came to India, and
created an 'App' & operated in India. He further disclosed that
Mr. Jack lured people to work for him, Mr. X provided him 3
HDFC Bank accounts to bear all the expenses, sent him mobile
sim & few bank accounts through one person namely Ramu from

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 5 of 85
 Hyderabad and he sent those bank accounts details to Mr. X.
Further Mr. Jack received parcel having bank account details,
which Mr. X asked him to send at his Cambodia address. f) Disclosure statement of Sanjay Yadav was recorded by
Hyderabad Police, wherein he disclosed that he got introduced
with Mr. Lee of China on 'Wechat' group in which there were lot
of Chinese people who used to post about jobs and other things
related to India. Then Mr. Lee contacted him, offered job as a
translator in Super Pioneer Automation India Pvt. Ltd. and later
on, he was made Director of this company on instructions of Mr.
Lee. g) Anurag Aggarwal was arrayed as witness in the said case
wherein he disclosed that Pankaj Wadhwa approached him in
August 2021 and informed that he needed current accounts of
money exchangers who will give cash in liquid on commission
basis for his clients namely Varun Arora & Bhupesh Arora.
Further, Anurag approached Sahil who gave bank account
numbers of M/s Ranjan Money Corp. and M/s KDS Forex Pvt.
Ltd. and introduced with Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik. Anurag
Agarwal gave said account details to Pankaj Wadhwa who used
to give transaction details of money transferred by him to Anurag
Agarwal. Subsequently, Anurag Agarwal used to share said
details with Sahil who used to share those details with Rohit Vij
& Navneet Kaushik asking them to confirm the transaction over
"WhatsApp" and Sahil used to share the confirmation with

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 6 of 85
 Anurag Agarwal who further used to confirm said details with
Pankaj Wadhwa. h) That Pankaj Wadhwa used to share the token number to
Anurag Agarwal to deliver money in cash to them & beneficiary
accounts were in the name of Syed Sultan, Mirza Nadeem Baig
& Parvez Khan. Furthermore, the exchanged dollars were sent to
China & Dubai through hawala by Sahil & Pankaj Wadhwa.
Pankaj Wadhwa was arrested on 10.10.2022 and his disclosure
statement was recorded on 19.10.2022 wherein he disclosed that
in August 2021 he was introduced to Varun Arora and
subsequently he approached Anurag Agarwal to provide current
accounts of money exchangers who will give cash in liquid on
commission basis and he gave bank account numbers of M/s
Ranjan Money Corp, and M/s KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. & introduced
with Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik, Directors in the said
companies. i) It was further disclosed that Varun Arora used to transfer
money through RTGS in the account numbers of M/s Ranjan
Money Corp. & M/s KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. and the UTR Nos,
were shared by Pankaj Wadhwa with Anurag Agarwal. Further,
Anurag Agarwal used to provide UTR Nos. to M/s Ranjan
Money Corp. and M/s KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. and Varun Arora
used to give token number of currency notes to Pankaj Wadhwa,
who further used to hand over the same to Anurag Agarwal and
thereafter, upon receiving the token number, the liquid cash was
transferred to Varun Arora. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 7 of 85 j) Pankaj Wadhwa came to know from Varun Arora that he
along with one Bhupesh Arora were having links with Chinese
Nationals and Varun Arora used to share details of UTR Nos.
with Pankaj Wadhwa on instructions of Chinese Nationals. 2.5 It is submitted that as the offences in the
aforementioned FIR fell under schedule offences, under
paragraph 1 of part-A of the schedule to PMLA, the present
ECIR was registered to trace out the proceeds of crime (in short
POC) & identify the persons involved. 2.6 It is submitted that during investigation of the
present case, ED recorded statements of i) Anurag Aggarwal on
21.10.2022, 23.10.2022, 02.11.2022, 11.03.2025 & 18.03.2025; ii) Pankaj Wadhwa on 21.02.2025, 24.02.2025, 05.03.2025 &
04.04.2025; iii) Sahil Bajaj on 21.10.2022, 22.10.2022 &
27.10.2023; iv) Pritam Paul on 26.12.2022; v) Maheep Kaushik
on 27.12.2022; vi) Sushil Singla on 16.12.2024 & 14.01.2025
and vii) Neeraj Kumar on 11.12.2024 under Section 50 for the
PMLA. 2.7 It is submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa in his statements
stated that he met the applicant for the first time in August 2021
who offered him with the entry providing business which he
accepted, agreed to work. He also stated that the applicant

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 8 of 85
 provided details of companies to him, through one Umesh
(Chartered Accountant) and through these companies, he
provided entries to Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul
Gupta & Vivek etc. and in return cash was picked up by Lalit
Arora from Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta &
Vivek etc. He further stated that he alongwith Vivek, Rishi,
Rahul Gupta & Deepak used to work for the applicant on
commission basis who used to transfer money through Gateway
PayU, liquid cash in the accounts operated by him & Others and
in return, he & others used to provide UTR Nos, to different
other entities, which was later, shared with Lalit Arora, cousin of
the applicant and in return Lalit Arora used to collect cash from
these entities against the transactions. Furthermore, he stated that
the applicant moved to Dubai in 2022 and thereafter Tarun Arora
through his brother Varun Arora was looking after the
cash/RTGS/transaction entries of the applicant during 2021-2022
and he worked with the applicant till August 2022. He further
stated that he was operating financial transactions of shell entities
as per instructions of the applicant and Varun Arora. 2.8 It is submitted that Anurag Aggarwal in his
statements stated that he knows the applicant through Pankaj
Wadhwa who had approached him regarding conversion of
RTGS into foreign currency. As he agreed to do the business,
Pankaj Wadhwa started to provide him the RTGS UTR nos. and
he used to forward those numbers to Sahil Bajaj over Whatsapp

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 9 of 85
 who used to forward those numbers to Rohit Vij for converting it
to foreign currency and then he personally delivered the foreign
currency to the applicant. He stated that the applicant is the
person who was transferring the RTGS through Pankaj Wadhwa
and he met the applicant for the first time at his Rohini office
with Pankaj Wadhwa where he got to know that Pankaj Wadhwa
was just working as an employee under the applicant. He further
stated that when Pankaj Wadhwa was not available for 7-10
days, the applicant used to send him the tokens, asking to arrange
persons for foreign currency pickups from locations provided by
Rohit Vij. Furthermore he was regularly meeting the applicant
from July 2021 to January 2022 sometimes at his office and also
at the time of handing over the foreign currencies to him.
Further, he stated that the applicant called him on his mobile in
December 2024 inviting him to Dubai for meeting and
accordingly he went to Dubai on December 5th 2024 where he
met the applicant at Hotel Lavender, Al Nahda who asked him to
convert foreign currencies in Dubai but he refused and came
back to India. 2.9 It is further submitted that the applicant was
arrested, in the present case on 11.07.2025 as it was alleged that
he was not divulging the truth & material evidence regarding
commission of money laundering and Reasons to Believe &
Grounds of Arrest were supplied to him. During his 5 days
custody with the ED he was thoroughly interrogated and his

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 10 of 85
 numerous statements U/s 50 were recorded on 11.07.2025,
12.07.2025, 13.07.2025, 14.07.2025 & 15.07.2025 after which he
was remanded to judicial custody on 16.07.2025. 2.10 It is submitted that the case set up against the
applicant by the ED is that he used to provide Pankaj Wadhwa
with the details of the companies from where money was
transferred through entries to Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak,
Rahul Gupta, Vivek etc. and in return cash was picked up by
Lalit Arora from Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta,
Vivek etc. and that he further used to transfer the money through
Gateway PayU, Cash Free in account operated by Anurag
Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta, Vivek & Pankaj
Wadhwa after which they used to provide entries to different
entities & details of entities were shared with Lalit Arora, who
would then collect the cash from the entities against the said
transactions. 2.11 It is submitted that according to the ED, seven
companies namely Wood Cart Info, Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd.,
Gaculoindia, Zavion Trading Pvt. Ltd. Atyarashakti, Truvina Pvt.
Ltd. Sark, Enroll System Pvt. Ltd. were used for conversion of
money into foreign exchange in form of USD, UAE Dirham etc.
which foreign exchange used to be delivered to the applicant
through Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta, Vivek
& Pankaj Wadhwa. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 11 of 85
 2.12 It is further submitted that the applicant is neither
connected, nor is concerned with the abovementioned
entities/money changers or their businesses and the ED during
it's investigation has failed to establish any relationship/business
activity between the entities & their Directors with him.
Furthermore during it's investigation, except for the vague &
baseless allegations made by Pankaj Wadhwa, in his statement
under section 50 PMLA recorded during the police custody,
nothing incriminating has been brought forth by the ED which
shows that any cash was collected from these entities by Anurag
Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta, Vivek & Pankaj
Wadhwa or that the same used to be handed over to the
applicant. 2.13 It is submitted that no incriminating material or
reliable evidence has been brought on record which connects the
applicant with any of Chinese national to whom said money used
to be allegedly transferred through Hawala and no substantive
credible evidence has been collected, during investigation, to
prove that the applicant was indulging in transferring money to
the Chinese national through Hawala as alleged in the statements
under section 50 of PMLA of Anurag Aggarwal, Pankaj
Wadhwa, Sahil Bajaj, Pritam Paul, Maheep Kaushik, Sushil
Singla & Neeraj Kumar . B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 12 of 85
 2.14 It is submitted that from the investigation &
evidences collected so far nowhere it is being proved that UTR
Nos. transactions were provided by the applicant to Pankaj
Wadhwa, Anurag Aggarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul Gupta, Vivek
and others, who further used to share the same with M/s Ranjan
Money Corp & M/s KDS forex Pvt. Ltd. for conversion of cash.
Furthermore Rohit Vij in his statement U/s 50 PMLA has not
alleged that he was having any business relation in any manner
whatsoever with the applicant and in fact, Rohit Vij has not even
named the applicant in his statement given to the ED under section 50 of PMLA. Furthermore the ED has confronted the
applicant & Rohit Vij during investigation, however, both of
them categorically denied knowing each other or having any
business relations. Also, on scrutiny of accounts of the applicant
& Rohit Vij nothing incriminating has been found by the ED. 2.15 It is submitted that according to the ED, UTR's were
shared on Whatsapp chat between the applicant and Pankaj,
Anurag, Sahil & others and that during the investigation, mobile
phones & chats exchanged on communication channels like
Whats app etc. of the applicant, Pankaj Wadhwa, Anurag
Aggarwal, Rohit & Sahil Bajaj were scrutinized, however, no
such UTR Transaction Nos. were recovered which could
establish the link of POC. Furthermore, in their statements under section 50 PMLA, Sahil Bajaj, Pritam Paul, Maheep Kaushik,
Sushil Singla & Neeraj Kumar denied knowing the applicant or

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 13 of 85
 having any business relations with him. Also the applicant was
not even identified by any of these persons & no connection
is/was ever established between the applicant & above named
persons to prove that he was directly or indirectly or knowingly
is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity
connected with the POC including its concealment, acquisition or
use and projecting or claiming it as tainted property and as such
no offence under section 3 of the PMLA Act can be said to have
been committed by him. 2.16 It is further submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa in his
disclosure statement in FIR No. 1352/2022 stated that he had met
Varun Arora in August 2021 on whose instructions he had asked
Anurag Aggarwal to arrange money changers to whom money
can be transferred through RTGS and in return gave money in
cash. Further, it is also the case of ED that on instructions of
Varun Arora, UTR Nos. were provided by him to Pankaj, which
were forwarded to Anurag Aggarwal and further forwarded to
M/s Ranjan Money Corp & M/s KDS forex Pvt. Ltd and upon
receiving UTR details, they used to convert the transaction into
foreign exchange and cash used to be further handed over to
Anurag Aggarwal, who further handed it to Pankaj Wadhwa and
finally the same was delivered to Varun Arora. It is submitted
that the said disclosure statement belies the case of the ED in
totality as the applicant was not even named to be part of any
transaction as disclosed by Pankaj Wadhwa. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 14 of 85
 2.17 It is submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa, in his
disclosure statement has only stated the fact that Varun Arora
had told him that he & the applicant were having links with
Chinese people and Varun Arora only used to send the details to
Pankaj Wadhwa. It is submitted that he is nowhere mentioned or
connected with any other person in the said money trail as
disclosed by Pankaj Wadhwa in his disclosure statement given to
the police in the predicate offence. 2.18 It is submitted that as per the case setup in the
predicate offence i.e. FIR No. 1352/2022, accused persons
namely Lee & Chhun were having connections & were acting on
behalf of Chinese persons who were indulging in committing
fraud on public at large, as stated by them in their disclosure
statements. Further, both of them have neither disclosed that they
knew the applicant nor that they had any transaction/business
relations with the applicant and rather, they have admitted that
they were directly in touch with Chinese people who were
operating Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. & 'LOXAM App' and
they were acting upon their instructions. Furthermore, Lee &
Chun stated in their disclosure statement that Sahil Bajaj used to
transfer money through Hawala to Chinese national. 2.19 It is further submitted that the applicant's name has
neither surfaced in the predicate offence nor he has been

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 15 of 85
 involved in any manner in the said offence and the ED has failed
to establish any connection between him & Chinese nationals
who were ultimate beneficiary of money collected by committing
fraud through 'LOXAM App' & account of Xindai Technologies
Pvt. Ltd. 2.20 It is further submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa, during
ED custody, improvised upon his statement as against what was
stated by him during investigation of FIR No. 1352/2022 and set
up altogether a new case, wherein for the first time he disclosed
that he had met the applicant in August 2022 whereas in
statement in FIR No. 1352/2022 he had stated that he met Varun
Arora and not the applicant and that all the illegal transactions
were done at the behest of Varun Arora. It is submitted that the
applicant was named for the first time in statement under section
50 PMLA, wherein it is alleged that it was upon his instructions
that Pankaj Wadhwa & others used to operate the alleged illegal
transactions, however, from the interrogation, no admissible
evidence has been brought forth to substantiate the said
allegations. 2.21 It is submitted that apart from statement under section 50 PMLA no incriminating evidence has come on record
to connect the applicant with the POC & without substantial
evidence being brought on record allegations u/s 50 PMLA does

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 16 of 85
 not stand alone & can't be looked into to curtail the liberty of the
applicant. 2.22 It is submitted that in his statements under section
50 of PMLA Anurag Aggarwal disclosed that he met the
applicant through Pankaj Wadhwa, who approached him
regarding conversion of RTGS into foreign currency and he also
met the applicant. Pankaj Wadhwa used to forward him the
RTGS UTR Nos. over 'Whatsapp' and he used to forward that
number to Sahil Bajaj who used to forward that number to M/s
Ranjan Money Corp & M/s KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. for converting
it into foreign currencies and Anurag Aggarwal used to deliver
the foreign currency to the applicant. It is submitted that Anurag
Aggarwal was arrayed as a witness in the FIR No. 1352/2022
and in his statement given before the police he stated that it was
Pankaj Wadhwa who approached him claiming that he needs
current accounts of money exchangers who will provide liquid
cash in exchange on commission basis for his clients Varun
Arora & the applicant. Anurag Aggarwal then approached Sahil
Bajaj who gave him account numbers of M/s Ranjan Money
Corp & M/s KDS forex Pvt. Ltd. and introduced with Directors
of these companies i.e. Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik. Anurag
Agarwal used to give account details to Pankaj Wadhwa who
used to give transaction details of money transferred by him, to
Anurag Aggarwal. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 17 of 85
 2.23 It is further submitted that Anurag Aggarwal used to
share details with Sahil Bajaj who further used to share those
details with Rohit Vij & Navneet Kaushik and asked them to
confirm the transaction over 'Whatsapp', who used to confirm the
transaction to Sahil Bajaj who further used to share the same
with Anurag Aggarwal who further used to confirm with Sahil
Bajaj. It is submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa used to send token no.
to Anurag Aggarwal to deliver money in cash to them and
beneficiary accounts were of Syed Sultan, Mirza Nadeem Baig &
Parvez Khan and that the defrauded money in USD, UAE
Dirham were sent to China & Dubai through Hawala by Sahil &
Pankaj. 2.24 It is submitted that the ED has failed to find any
nexus of these transactions with the applicant and the alleged
Whats App Chats having details of token nos or RTGS UTR
transaction nos. Also the ED could not even trace the channels
how the money was routed to Dubai or China by the applicant
through Hawala. 2.25 It is submitted that no overt act has been attributed
to the applicant in the disclosure statements of Pankaj Wadhwa
and Anurag Aggarwal given before Cyber Police, Hyderabad i.e.
in the predicate offence and no incriminating material has been
brought on record during investigation of the said offence which
proves that the applicant has committed any crime of any nature. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 18 of 85
 2.26 It is further submitted that the applicant is not even
named by Mr. Lee and Mr. Chun who have admitted the fact that
they were involved in the said crime, were acting on behalf of
Chinese Nationals and were duping people on their instructions.
Furthermore, it is the case of ED itself that Mr. Lee and Chun
were acting upon the instructions of Chinese National in
Cambodia and they were the ultimate beneficiaries of the
defrauded money/POC. It is submitted that ED has not
interrogated Mr. Lee or Chun nor has arrested them in the present
ECIR. 2.27 It is submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa & Anurag
Aggarwal, during whose statements the name of the applicant has
surfaced, have not been arrested by the ED till date and infact all
the accused persons named in the predicate offence have not
been arrested by it. 2.28 It is submitted that the applicant is in custody in the
present ECIR for last 14 days, the investigation of the case is at
initial stage whose trial shall take a considerable time and the
applicant shall suffer unbearable hardship of imprisonment if he
remains confined to Jail during this period. 2.29 It is further submitted that the allegations in the
aforesaid ECIR are absolutely false, frivolous & are manifestly

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 19 of 85
 attended with malafides and the same have been levelled in order
to falsely implicate him. It is submitted that he has a prima facie
strong case and will suffer irreparable loss & injury if he is not
granted bail by this Ld. Court. 2.30 It is submitted that he has fully co-operated with the
investigating agency which does not require his further custody
for the purpose of investigation and that he is further willing to
co-operate with the Investigating Officer and undertakes to join
the investigation as & when required by the ED and that he is a
respectable person of the society having clean antecedents and in
case the relief prayed for is not granted, he will undergo
humiliation & hardship, which he will not be able to withstand. 2.31 It is further submitted that there is no likelihood of
his absconding or misusing the bail, if granted by this Ld. Court
and that he is the sole bread earner in his family and his wife &
children are completely dependent on him. 2.32 It is submitted that he undertakes to abide by the
terms & conditions as may be imposed by this Ld. Court while
granting him bail. Additional grounds dated 08.09.2025 3. It is submitted that from the analysis of the IP

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 20 of 85
 address of Melanic & Freebie, as mentioned in the prosecution
complaint at Table 27, it can be inferred that dates & time on
which Melanic & Freebie have allegedly used the said IP
Address are different and therefore the inference drawn by the
prosecution agency that both the above mentioned entities were
controlled & operated by the same person/entity is incorrect and
is contrary to the case set by the prosecution. 3.1 It is submitted that investigation agency has failed to
establish that any of the IP addresses mentioned in Table 27
belongs to the applicant or that he was anywhere and anyhow
related or connected with these IP addresses. It has further failed
to establish the location from where these IP addresses were
operated and on which devices the said IP addresses were used. It
is submitted that the evidence put forth by the prosecution is a
weak evidence and no conclusion can be drawn on the same to
the extent that the above mentioned companies were operated
controlled, managed by the same entity. 3.2 It is submitted that as per the statement of various
directors of the said company recorded during investigation
under section 50 of PMLA, it is admitted by them that these
companies were created by former employees of the applicant
and they were doing business of gift cards along with the
applicant, however, even if the alleged analysis of ED is to be
believed at best, it concludes that these entities were doing gift

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 21 of 85
 card businesses, and no RTGS/UTR business was conducted for
integration, layering & parking of POC. Furthermore, without
any substantial corroborative evidence, statement under section
50 of PMLA recorded by the investigating agency cannot be
relied upon at the stage of hearing of bail application. 3.3 It is submitted that as far as the allegations, as
detailed in para 1 (page 208) of the prosecution complaint are
concerned, the case of the investigation agency and also as per
the case set up in Hyderabad i.e. predicate offence is of
investment platform and not betting & gaming, therefore, money
generated through betting or gaming platforms cannot be said to
be POC in the present case and hence the allegations are false,
baseless, contrary to the case of investigation agency and belies
the entire case set up by the prosecution. 3.4 It is submitted that as far as the allegations in para 2
(page 209) of the prosecution complaint are concerned, Cash
Free is a payment gateway which gives services to its customers
of either pay in or pay out or both. Further from the statements of
Directors of these entities recorded during the investigation under section 50 of PMLA, it is revealed that the entities were involved
in gift card business and it is admitted case of the prosecution
that these companies were availing both pay in and pay out
facilities from CashFree Gateway and Xindai was availing the
services of Payout from Cash Free that means all the entities

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 22 of 85
 were using common payment gateway services i.e. Cash Free for
paying out to their customers. It is also the admitted case of the
prosecution as per Relied Upon Documents (RUD) A37 that pay-
outs were given to these customers and that the cheated money as
per the predicate offence was collected in accounts of Xindai and
same was thereafter transferred to Cash Free gateway for the
purpose of pay-out to its customers (the alleged transfer of Rs 17
Crore is between 05.03.2022 to 25.03.2022) as depicted from
Table 29 and thereafter that amount has been transferred to
customers in their accounts as depicted from Table 28 and it is
alleged that the amount which was transferred from Xindai into
Cash Free were POC, however, analytic or any other entity till
that stage had no relation with the said amount that is alleged to
be POC. In fact, analytic and other entities were giving pay-out
to its own customers including the common customers of Xindai
and Analytic and other entities. Having common customers with
Xindai, to whom pay outs were given through Cashfree, does not
attribute that Analytic and other entities had any relationship
with POC alleged to have been received in Cash Free from
Xindai. Common customers as alleged in no manner, show
meeting of mind and same by no stretch of imagination can
impute upon any criminality upon these entities. 3.5 It is submitted that as far as layout diagram at page
no. 212 of the prosecution complaint is concerned, no connection
or relation is said to have been established of the applicant with

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 23 of 85
 the alleged POC received in 29 virtual account. In fact, neither
the applicant nor the entities alleged to be have been operated,
managed or controlled by him are connected or linked with the
siphoning of POC through Shell or mule accounts and then
through KDS and Ranjan. 3.6 It is submitted that as far as the allegations at page
no. 213 of the prosecution complaint are concerned, the said
POC of Rs 17 Cr have been transferred to cash free for pay-out
between 05.03.2022 and 25.03.2022 with the intent of paying it
to its customers. 3.7 It is submitted that as far as allegations at page no.
217 of the prosecution complaint are concerned, Rs 17 Cr
received from Xindai in Cash Free is all together a different
transaction and the same is confirmed by the very fact that sum
of 494 Cr were pay in amount transferred by Analytiq over a
period of time. In relation to these pay-ins, pay-outs which were
made to its customers as depicted from Table 28 and RUD
(A-37), it cannot be said that this amount is anyhow or anywhere
connected with POC i.e. Rs 17 Crores received from Xindai in
Cash Free gateway. Furthermore, it is admitted case of the
prosecution that Analytic was not the entity in which the cheated
amount/POC had come. Further during the investigation,
prosecution agency requisitioned the accounts of customers
along with other documents from Cash Free gateway of these

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 24 of 85
 entities including Analytiq and Xindai and upon analysis of the
documents supplied by Cash Free (RUD 37), it is found that
Xindai has never made any request or has permitted Cash Free to
transfer any amount/money as pay-out to Analytic or Melanic. In
fact, it is straight and simple case that Analytiq was using Cash
Free for pay-in and pay-out and pay-out were made by Cash Free
into the accounts of customers as can be seen from the
investigation. 3.8 It is submitted that as far as allegations at page no.
218 are concerned, during the course of investigation,
prosecution agency examined Mr Mohit Kotnala and recorded
his statement under section 50 PMLA Act (page 68). From the
statement recorded by the agency, it is revealed that Mohit has no
association with the Melanic company and he was approached by
one Amit Singhal who had requested him to provide documents
for KYC and he shared his and his wife's documents with Amit
Singhal. Further, it is revealed that Amit Singhal worked under
Pankaj Wadhwa. It is submitted that Pankaj Wadhwa or the
Applicant were thoroughly interrogated by the investigating
agency and their statements were recorded under section 50 PMLA, however, neither any relation or connection is
established between the applicant and Amit Singhal nor it has
come on record in statement of any other person that Amit
Singhal was working under Pankaj Wadhwa on instructions of
Applicant. Furthermore, investigating agency has neither made

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 25 of 85
 Amit Singhal an accused or a witness in the present case. M/S
Melanic and applicant have no connection with each other and
Applicant was not operating or managing or controlling it. It is
admitted case of the prosecution that Melanic received Rs 10 Cr
as pay- in from 01.07.2022 to 24.12.2022, as PG settlement as
depicted from Table 31 (page 219). It is stated that money
received or transferred into the account of Cash Free is settled
with its customers within 24 to 48 hours and not beyond the said
time limit. It is submitted that alleged POC of Rs 17 Cr were
received in Cash Free gateway from Xindai between 05.03.2022
to 25.03.2022 and the said amount can't be transferred to Melanic
as pay in, in terms of settlement as the difference between the
two transfers as depicted on page 219 and 213 is of more than
three months. Furthermore, no document has been produced by
prosecution which shows that Xindai has granted permission to
transfer its money as pay-in into the account of Melanic.
Therefore the money which has been received by Melanic is not
alleged POC. 3.9 It is submitted that as far as allegations at page no.
220 are concerned, the alleged amount of Rs 10 Crore were
received in Melanic from Cash Free gateway as pay-in between
01.07.2022 to 24.12.2022. Further, sum of 2.8 Crores were
transferred into Analytiq by Melanic from 15/07/2022 to
25.08.2022 as depicted from Table 32 (Page 220). It is stated that
as per the prosecution case, alleged POC were received in Cash

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 26 of 85
 Free Gateway from Xindai i.e. Rs. 17 Cr from 05.03.2022 to
25.03.2022 and Rs 10 Cr were alleged to be transferred into the
account of Melanic from 01.07.2022 to 24.12.2022. Further
amount of Rs 2.8 Crore were transferred during this period in the
account of Analytic. It is submitted that as already detailed above
that money received or transferred into the account of Cash Free
is settled with its customers within 24 to 48 hours and not
beyond the said time limit. Further from the time line mentioned
above, it can be inferred that the money has been alleged to be
transferred after gap of 3 months and the money transferred if
any after 01.07.2022 cannot be treated or termed as POC.
Though IP addresses of both the companies are alleged to be
common, however, the user/owner of the said IP address and
device or location on which they were used have not been
brought forth by the prosecution. 3.10 It is submitted that as far as the allegations at page
no. 221 of the prosecution complaint are concerned, Rs 10 Cr
was received in Melanic and alleged entries drawn out is from
the time when no POC was transferred into the account of
Melanic from Xindai as alleged by the prosecution. Furthermore
the statement of Mr. Mohit Kotnala corroborates the fact that the
said entity is not connected with applicant in any manner. 3.11 It is submitted that as far as the allegation that the
POC which came in the account of Melanic were further

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 27 of 85
 transferred to KDS and Ranjan for purchasing forex is
concerned, the amount which was alleged to have been
transferred from Melanic to KDS and Ranjan were made on
22.03.2022 and 30.03.2022 i.e. way before alleged POC were
transferred from Cash Free gateway in the account of Melanic.
The said entries made from Melanic in the account of KDS and
Ranjan belies the case of prosecution in entirety as the initial
case of the prosecution was that POC were transferred in the
account of KDS and Ranjan and further the same was converted
into foreign currency and routed outside India through Hawala
wherein alleged role of applicant was shown. It is submitted that
as per the statement of Mr. Mohit and Pankaj Wadhwa recorded
under section 50 PMLA during the investigation, applicant is
nowhere connected with the said entity and any transaction done
by the said entity cannot be attributed to the applicant. 3.12 It is submitted that as far as allegations at page 222
of the prosecution complaint are concerned, Director of Truvinta
Solutions India Private Ltd in his statement as recorded u/s 50 of
PMLA admits that applicant has no connection with the said
entity and was nowhere connected, managing or operating the
control of the said entity. Furthermore on analysis of Table 35, it
can be inferred that funds transferred to KDS, Ranjan and Lalit
from the said entity was carried out 11.03.2021 to 12.05.2021 but
POC, if any, as alleged happened to have been generated in year
2022 and furthermore, it is not the case of prosecution that POC

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 28 of 85
 was transferred in the account of Truvinta Solutions from Cash
Free Gateway. These transactions belies the case of prosecution
in entirety. 3.13 It is submitted that as far as allegations at page 224
of the prosecution complaint are concerned, it is the case of
prosecution that Sark was owned & controlled by applicant and
further from Table 36 it is depicted that the funds were
transferred from Sark to Ranjan i.e. the same funds received by
Sark from Melanic and thereafter same were subsequently routed
through Hawala, however, the alleged POC if any was generated
in year 2022 and the transfer of funds from Sark in the account of
Ranjan was of period 2021. The said entries maligns the case of
prosecution that POC were transferred to Ranjan and further
transferred through Hawala. The entire sequence of Money trail
as alleged by the prosecution in their complaint belies the initial
case of the prosecution that POC was routed through shell
companies to Ranjan and KDS and further were routed through
Hawala. 3.14 Further it is the case of prosecution as depicted from
Table 37 that funds received in Melanic i.e. Rs 10 Cr. were
transferred in account of Sark between 01/07/2022 to 12/08/2022
and same were transferred in account of Ranjan and KDS and
were converted into foreign currency and routed out of India
through Hawala. Further it is its case that Melanic and Sark were

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 29 of 85
 controlled & operated by Applicant, however, the POC was
received in Cash Free gateway from 05.03.2022 to 25.03.2022
and allegedly came into Melanic on 01/07/2022 to 12/08/2022
which as per the norms couldn't have happened as funds
transferred as PG settlement is done within 48 hours as per cash
free norms. 3.15 It is submitted that it is the case of the prosecution
that amount of Rs 10 Cr was received as POC by Melanic and as
per the chart relied upon by the prosecution Rs 26 Cr. have been
transferred from Melanic to the account of Sark i.e. amount
which is much above and higher than the POC as allegedly
received in the account of Sark. It is submitted that no POC were
ever received in the account of Melanic and the same were never
diverted in the account of Sark. 3.16 It is submitted that the alleged POC was never
layered through Analytic, Melanic or Sark and the same were not
transferred in the account of KDS and Ranjan which were
thereafter allegedly converted into foreign currency and were
sent abroad through Hawala transactions. In fact in the present
case, investigating agency has failed to establish that any POC
was generated in the present case at the time when alleged
transactions have taken between Melanic or Sark with KDS or
Ranjan. Furthermore, investigation agency has failed to establish
that applicant had knowledge at any point of time that the alleged

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 30 of 85
 transfer of funds into entities as described in chart/layout
diagram at page 212 were the same money i.e. POC in the
present case as well as predicate offence. 3.17 It is submitted that applicant's mother namely Mrs.
Asha Rani is presently suffering from severe chronic orthopedic
ailments, including multiple old and recent fractures of the hips
and femur, presence of orthopedic implants, and a confirmed
diagnosis of Avascular Necrosis resulting in permanent disability
and continuous requirement of treatment and assistance. The said
condition necessitates regular medical supervision and day-to-
day care. which the applicant/accused, being her only immediate
support, is required to provide personally. In view of the
compelling humanitarian circumstances and to enable the
applicant/accused to discharge his filial duties towards his ailing
mother, it is prayed that the applicant may be released on bail. 3.19 Ld. Counsel for accused/applicant relied upon
Udhaw Singh Vs. ED Criminal Appeal no. 799/2025 dated
17.02.2025, Pankaj Kumar Tiwari Vs. ED 2024 SCC Online Del
7385 and Kalvakuntla Kavitha Vs. Directorate of Enforcement
2024 SCC Online SC 2269

Reply

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 31 of 85 4. It is ED's case that the accused was arrested on
11.07.2025 after scrupulous compliance of provision of Section
19 of PMLA and his actions fall within the ambit of the
definition of the money laundering as defined under Section 3 of
the said Act. 4.1 It is its case that the application is liable to be
dismissed as the applicant has failed to satisfy the mandatory
twin conditions U/s 45 of the PMLA which imposes stringent
conditions for the grant of bail to individuals accused of money
laundering offenses. 4.2 It is its case that the rigorous requirements under Section 45 are not only constitutionally valid but also crucial for
deterring money laundering activities, protecting the integrity of
the financial system and for ensuring that only those who can
convincingly demonstrate their innocence are granted bail. 4.3 It is its case that the court is not required to render a
finding of guilt at this stage nor is it required to conduct a mini
trial or meticulously examine the evidence, rather the court has to
examine whether the applicant has made out reasonable grounds
for believing that he is not guilty. It is its case that in the facts &
circumstances of the case and in light of the statutory
presumption as provided u/s 24 of PMLA such a satisfaction
cannot be rendered. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 32 of 85
 4.4 It is its case that economic offences constitute a
class apart, need to be visited with a different approach and the
classification of economic offences as different class in itself is a
clear jurisprudential recognition of the gravity of the offence
being judicially recognized as an extremely relevant factor while
considering matters regarding bail. 4.5 It is its case that that gravity of the offence and the
role played by an accused in an economic offence ought to be
viewed with severity in matter concerning bail and it is trite law
that the Court while granting bail, has to keep in mind the nature
of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the
severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the
character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
accused, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being
tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and other
similar considerations. 4.6 It is its case that the legal sanctity attached to the
statements recorded under section 50 of PMLA is well settled,
which statements have evidentiary value, are admissible in legal
proceedings and can be relied upon by the courts for considering
remand as well as bail. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 33 of 85
 4.7 It is its case that in ECIR/GWZO-II/09/2022, the Ld.
Special Court, Dimapur vide order dated 22.01.2025, declared
applicant/accused as a Fugitive Economic Offender under Section 12 of the FEOA and a Red Comer Notice (RCN) dated
14.01.2025 as well as Open ended NBWs were also issued
against him. A Look Out Circular (LOC) dated 21.02.2023
issued against the applicant, in the above ECIR, is still active and
since it was not flagged at any of the legal entry points of the
country, it clearly establishes that the applicant/accused has
entered the country through dubious means. 4.8 It is its case that subsequently he filed Criminal Rev.
Pet. 03/2025 seeking setting aside of the order issuing NBWs,
Crl Appeal No 01/2025 along with IA (Crl.) 4/2025 assailing the
order declaring him as FEO before the Court and the Hon'ble
Guwahati High Court (Kohima Bench) vide order dated
07.03.2025 directed that till the next date no coercive step should
be taken against him. Further vide order dated 07.04.2025 in Crl
Appeal No. 01/2025 the Court stayed the FEO order dated
22.01.2025, which has been challenged by the department, which
is pending. 4.9 It is its case that the gravity of offence is a factor in
addition to the triple test and the applicant/accused has failed to

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 34 of 85
 satisfy the triple test for grant of bail i.e. flight risk, tampering of
evidence & influencing witnesses and his conduct unequivocally
establishes that he is a flight risk. 4.10 It is its case that the applicant entered India through
an informal/non-regulated immigration channel i.e. Nepal route
and he had been absconding, was residing at Dubai where he was
living a well-off lifestyle, purchased multiple assets for which he
has failed to provide explanation regarding the source of
funds/purchases It is its case that the applicant in order to escape
the law enforcement agencies, along with his family, associates
and Directors of associate entities, fled to Dubai which is
corroborated through various recorded statements. 4.11 It is its case that there is a strong apprehension that
he may dissipate the POC, which were routed to offshore entities
through hawala channels and may attempt to destroy or tamper
with evidence and influence witnesses. His his overall conduct,
prior abscondence & stature shows that he poses a high flight
risk and is likely to once again evade the process of law and
abscond to Dubai. 4.12 It is its case that FIR No. 1352/2022 dated
26.07.2022 was registered by the PS Cyber Crime, Hyderabad,
invoking sections 419 and 420 of IPC, based on a written
complaint filed by one Mohd. Ghouse Pasha for alleged fraud of

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 35 of 85
 Rs. 1.16 lakhs by unknown persons running an investment app
named 'LOXAM', claiming to be related to a reputed French
MNC Group of the same name, offering unrealistically high
returns on investments and the Hyderabad Police has filed
charge-sheet against 15 persons. 4.13 It is its case that as per the investigation carried out
by the PS Cyber Crime, Hyderabad the cheated money was
collected in the account of one M/s Xindai Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. which account was opened by one Virendra Singh who had
opened this account on the instructions of a Chinese national
namely Mr. Jack and gave the Internet Banking credentials to
Jack. 4.14 It is its case that by using the same mobile number
linked to the account of M/s Xindai Technologies, other bank
accounts in the name of M/s Betench Networks Pvt. Ltd. were
opened by one Mr. Sanjay Yadav of Delhi, upon instructions of a
Chinese national Mr. Lee @ Li Zhongjun. Sanjay Yadav had
opened 15 other bank accounts and gave the banking credentials
to one Mr. Chu Chun-Yu (a Taiwanese national, temporarily
staying in Mumbai) who further sent the banking credentials and
linked SIM cards to China Town Building and collected banking
kits, related SIM cards and further sent them to China Town
Building, Preh Sihanoul, Cambodia on the instructions of Hua
Zho and Bei Ge. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 36 of 85
 4.15 It is its case that since Section 419 & 420 of IPC are
covered as Scheduled offences under Paragraph 1 of Part-A of
the Schedule to the PMLA, 2002 (as amended), the present case
ECIR was recorded and investigation under the provisions of the
PMLA, 2002 was initiated. 4.16 It is its case that during the course of investigation
statements of various individuals were recorded under Section 50 of PMLA, searches were conducted, bank statements of various
individuals & entities were scrutinized and the investigation has
revealed that there is a large network of individuals & entities
which is defrauding the gullible individuals with their money and
creating shell companies by using credentials of innocent and
ignorant young individuals. Such shell companies had been used
to launder the defrauded amounts (POC), thereby jeopardizing
their lives. 4.17 It is its case that on the basis of
information/documents and statements recorded, it is revealed
that the POC generated by cheating victims in the guise of online
investment were transferred from the Virtual accounts of M/s
Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. through Epocket payment gateway
to around 38 mule bank accounts including those of 03
Hyderabad-based persons namely Syed Sultan, Mirza Nadeem
Baig and Mohd. Parvez. Mirza Nadeem Baig and Syed Sultan

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 37 of 85
 opened current accounts on the instructions of one Mr. Imran,
temporarily working and residing in Dubai, who further passed
on the bank account details to the masterminds of the investment
scam. 4.18 It is its case that substantial part of the POC
collected in the Virtual accounts of M/s Xindai Technologies
Pvt. Ltd., was sent directly to M/s Ranjan Money Corp and M/s
KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd, the details of the which are available on
record. Further part of the POC collected in the Virtual accounts
of M/s Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and layered through 38
mule accounts was routed to M/s Ranjan Money Corp and M/s
KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. both shell companies controlled by Mr.
Rohit Vij and his employee/ close associate Mr. Navneet
Kaushik, who got the money converted into cash and foreign
currencies from multiple Authorised Money Changers (AMCs)/
Full Fledged Money Changers (FFMCs) and laundered in cash
by hawala payments through middlemen viz. Mr. Sahil Bajaj,
Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny, Anurag Aggrawal & others on
the directions of applicant/ accused and Mr. Varun Arora. 4.19 It is its case that during investigation the statements
of 29 virtual accounts were analyzed which revealed that a total
amount of Rs. 152,62,26,705/- pay outs have taken place in all
the Virtual accounts and a total payouts of Rs. 18,85,44,397/-
have taken place in physical account No. 258005646054, IFSC

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 38 of 85
 INDB0000533 totaling to Rs.171.47 crores. Further it was
identified from 29 virtual accounts of Xindai Technologies Pvt.
Ltd that the money has been transferred into 38 physical accounts
in which 23 accounts pertain to ICICI bank and remaining
accounts from other banks. However, from the analysis of bank
accounts of M/s Ranjan Money Corp and M/s KDS Forex Pvt.
Ltd. it was found that forex to the tune of Rs. 903 crore approx.
has been generated by defrauding the victims in the name of
exorbitant returns and have been siphoned off to foreign
countries by the applicant/accused. 4.20 It is its case that applicant's involvement surfaced in
the subject PMLA case on reading the Charge sheet filed by
Hyderabad Police, wherein it has been mentioned that he along
with Mr. Varun Arora are the clients of Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa. 4.21 It is its case that as per the investigation under
PMLA it has transpired that he is the main mastermind,
controller and one of the ultimate beneficiaries of the amount
defrauded from the investors and actively engaged in operating
the fraudulent investment app. 4.22 It is its case that Mr. Anurag Aggarwal made
statement in the predicate offence as well as before it that Mr.
Pankaj Wadhwa was working for the applicant/accused and
during the course of investigation, he was confronted with Mr.

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 39 of 85
 Anurag Aggarwal during which he categorically stated that Mr.
Pankaj Wadhwa was working on the instructions of the
applicant, however, the applicant failed to give any response to
it. 4.23 It is its case that Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa during his
statements recorded u/s 50 of PMLA stated that he used to
transfer money on the directions of the applicant to various
vendors who needed the entries and in return cash was collected
by him. Further Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa explained and stated that he
did entry providing business for the applicant till August 2022
who provided him with companies through Mr. Umesh,
Chartered Accountant, Rohini. Through these companies, Panjaj
Wadhwa provided entries to Anurag Agarwal, Rishi (Sarai
Rohilla), Deepak (Ashok Vihar), Rahul Gupta (Rohini), Vivek
(Azadpur) & others and in return cash was picked up by Lalit
Arora (Bunty) from Anurag Agarwal, Rishi, Deepak, Rahul
Gupta, Vivek, etc.

4.24 It is its case that Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa further stated
that he along with Vivek, Rishi, Rahul Gupta, Deepak worked
for the applicant who used to transfer money through Gateway,
Payu, Cash Free, in the accounts operated by them after which
they use to provide entries to the different entities and the details
of the entities were shared with Lalit Arora, cousin of the
applicant, who then collected cash from these entities against the

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 40 of 85
 transactions. They used to receive commission of 0.3% from the
applicant against the transaction entries provided by them. 4.25 It is its case that Lalit Arora also received some
funds from a shell entity which transferred funds to Ranjan
Forex, KDS Money Corp and Analytics Solutions and Shark
International. Shark International also transferred funds to
Ranjan Forex, KDS Money Corp and Analytics Solutions which
details & flow thereof are available on record. Analytics
Solutions and Shark International entities are private limited
companies owned & controlled by the applicant through his
employees and associates. 4.26 It is its case that Pankaj Wadhwa has admitted that
he was operating financial transactions of shell entities as per
instructions of the applicant/ accused and Varun Arora and he
furnished names of some of the entities as under:- Melanic Solutions Pvt Ltd, Sark Enroll System Pvt Ltd and
Truvina Pvt Ltd had transactions in this case as well as in the
case of HPZ Token case, being investigated at Directorate of
Enforcement, Dimapur, Nagaland. These shell entities, apart
from various other entities used to rotate illegitimate funds
through complex web transactions and ultimately converted it
into cash in the form of INR & foreign currencies, which were
subsequently, transferred out of India through Hawala channels,
as per the arrangements made by the applicant, Varun Arora and
their other associates. 4.28 It is its case that there are some entities which
provided funds directly to Ranjan Forex, KDS as well as to
Analytics Solutions (entity of the applicant/accused) and the
details & flow thereof are available on record. 4.29 It is its case that Mr. Anurag Aggarwal was
summoned and his statements were was recorded who stated that
he knows applicant through Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa @ Sunny as
Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa was the one, who approached him regarding
conversion of RTGS into foreign currency. As he agreed to do
this business, Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa started to provide him the
RTGS UTR number and then he used to forward that number to
Mr. Sahil Bajaj and he (Sahil Bajaj) then further forward that
UTR number to Mr. Rohit Vij. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 42 of 85
 4.30 It is its case that Anurag Aggarwal further stated that
Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa, on the directions of the applicant used to
give the UTR details to him on WhatsApp which he used to
transfer to Sahil Arora, who used to further forward it to M/s
Ranjan Moneycorp Private Limited and M/s KDS Forex Private
Limited for converting it to foreign currency which he then
personally delivered to the applicant. 4.31 It is its case that Anurag Aggarwal further stated that
his friend Sahil Arora arranged the bank accounts of M/s Ranjan
Moneycorp Private Limited and M/s KDS Forex Private Limited
for conversion of RTGS to cash & foreign currencies and that
these two entities were managed & controlled by Rohit Vij and
Navneet Kaushik. 4.32 It is its case that Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa and Mr.
Anurag Aggarwal have categorically admitted that they were
working on the instructions of the applicant who provided all the
bank account details and that Varun Arora & Tarun Arora, both
close relatives of the applicant, were working on his behalf in
conversion of defrauded amount into cash in INR & foreign
currencies. They also admitted that they have looked after the
cash/RTGS transactions of the applicant after he fled to Dubai,
UAE and that Varun Arora has also been named as absconding

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 43 of 85
 accused in the charge-sheet filed by the Hyderabad Cyber Police
Station. 4.33 It is its case that the applicant's claim that he is a
law-abiding individual is vehemently denied in view of his
involvement in multiple cases. He is a declared Fugitive
Economic Offender and a Red corner notice dated 14.01.2025
had been issued against him. Being an Indian citizen, he had
constituted various entities without adherence to the procedure laid down by the RBI for constituting companies in foreign
country and he had also opened various bank accounts with
banks in Dubai in his own name and his spouse's name for the
purposes of making investments in Dubai in complete disregard
to the procedure laid by the RBI. His averments that he has deep
roots in the society is completely irrelevant and meaningless in
light of the fact that he purposedly evaded law enforcement
agencies and absconded to Dubai where he was living since
2022. In June 2025 he entered India in a clandestine manner as
he was well acquainted with the fact that he is a declared
Fugitive Economic Offender and a LOC is opened against him
and that he is a threat to the financial and economic interest of
India. 4.34 It is its case that FIR No. 24/2024 dated 26.02.2024
was registered involving allegations of cyber fraud wherein the
applicant was enlarged on bail only because he paid an amount

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 44 of 85
 of Rs. 10 Lakh to the private complainant/victim in said FIR as
compensation against the fraud of Rs. 2 Lakh (approx.) and the
private complainant therein had no objections to his release. 4.35 It is its case that PS cyber Crime, Hyderabad had
already filed charge-sheet in FIR bearing No. 1352/2022 before
the Ld. Court at Nampally, Hyderabad and the said charge-sheet
has established in uncertain terms that cyber fraud has been
committed against the private complainant therein and the
defrauded amount ultimately travelled to Ranjan Money Corp
Pvt. Ltd. and KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. from 29 virtual accounts
belonging to Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. which virtual
accounts were opened by submitting bogus/fake credentials of
innocent and ignorant young individuals. It is its case that it has
obtained the details of these accounts and the same are being
analysed, scrutinised with respect to its source & utilisation. 4.36 It is its case that it has been established that the
defrauded amount of money travelled from the said virtual
accounts to mule accounts, to Ranjan Money Corp Pvt. Ltd. &
KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. and to the shell entities and further routed
from these shell entities to Ranjan Money Corp Pvt. Ltd. and
KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. Further the defrauded amount travelled to
Ranjan Money Corp Pvt. Ltd. & KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. which was
then converted into Forex and encashed. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 45 of 85
 4.37 It is its case that the Director of Xindai
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Virender Singh had registered an FIR
1352/2022 against Chinese individuals & others for opening
virtual accounts by using his credentials. 4.38 It is denied that the applicant has been named for the
first time in statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA
and on the contrary, it is its case that he was also named during
the investigation conducted by the Hyderabad Police and in the
statement of Anurag Aggarwal recorded by the Police in August
2021 it is recorded that Mr. Pankaj Wadhwa approached him
saying that he needs current accounts of money changers for his
clients namely Varun Arora and the applicant. Further, the
statement of Pankaj Wadhwa was also recorded by Hyderabad
Police on 19.10.2022 wherein he also named the applicant and
stated that Varun Arora had told him he and the applicant have
connections with Chinese Nationals and UTR numbers are sent
from them. 4.39 It is its case that the statements of Mr. Pankaj
Wadhwa and Mr. Anurag Aggarwal as recorded by the predicate
agency cannot be read in isolation and that those statements were
recorded by the predicate agency in respect to the modus
operandi adopted by the wrongdoers in defrauding the investors
which statements categorically disclosed that the offence had

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 46 of 85
 been committed in a premediated manner by involving large
entities and individuals to launder the defrauded amount. 4.40 It is its case that non-arrest of co-accused cannot by
itself be a ground for grant of bail and that the applicant is a man
with the means and capable of hampering the ongoing
investigation. Further there is every reasonable apprehension that
he would tamper with evidence and influence the witnesses. Reply to additional grounds 5. It is submitted that the applicant is misconstruing the
contents of the complaint and purposedly picking & emphasizing
only those transactions where there is difference in date & time
in using the common IP addresses by the beneficially owned
entities of the applicant. However, the table no. 27 at Page no.
206-207 of Prosecution Complaint contains details of IP address
of M/s Analytiq Business Ventures Pvt. Ltd., M/s BESTPay
Solutions Pvt Ltd., M/s LEVEL Next Idea Pvt. Ltd., Freebie
Solutions Pvt Ltd., M/s MELANIC Solutions Pvt. Ltd. which are
beneficially owned & controlled by the applicant. M/s Analytiq
Business Ventures Pvt. Ltd, M/s Bestpay Solutions Pvt Ltd, M/s
Level Next Idea Pvt Ltd, M/s Freebie Solutions Pvt Ltd. used IP
Address 1.39.22.5 on the same date i.e. 11.01.2022 and M/s
Melanic Solutions Pvt Ltd. used IP Address 1.39.22.23 on
04.10.2022 which clearly signify that they are technically

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 47 of 85
 originating from the same server or network location, implying
operational linkage or common backend control. The beneficial
ownership of these entities, which were involved in routing the
POC from investment in Loxam app, lies with the applicant and
were incorporated & managed by the employees of the applicant
on his instructions and directions. He was working behind the
scenes and pulling the strings of his employees who were acting
on his instructions to carry out the monetary transactions for the
purposes of laundering the accumulated POC. 5.1 It is submitted that the information received from
Cashfree revealed that more than 600 bank accounts were
commonly used for payouts by M/s Xindai Technologies Pvt
Ltd., M/s Faithpay Systems Pvt Ltd, M/s Analytiq Business
Ventures Pvt Ltd, M/s Levelnext Ideas Pvt Ltd which clearly
indicates that the said entities were following the similar modus
operandi to route the defrauded amount of money received from
gullible individuals and were operating under common control or
direction. 5.2 it is submitted that the complete account statement
of the M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. as annexed as RUD NO
B111 volume No. B-32 makes it evident that huge funds
are/were received in bank account of M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. from cashfree as well as paytm. Funds were transferred from
cashfree to M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. on 24.03.2022 to the

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 48 of 85
 tune of Rs 20 lakhs, on 25.03.2022 to the tune of Rs 25 lakhs and
on 25.03.2022 to the tune of Rs. 50 Lakhs and therefore, the
contentions of the applicant with regard to the interval of 3
months in the transaction between flow of funds from M/s
Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. to Cashfree and cashfree to M/s
Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. is frivolous. 5.3 It is submitted that funds were transferred from M/s
Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. to M/s Analytiq Business Ventures
Pvt Ltd on 24.03.2022 to the tune of Rs 1.43 Crore (approx) and
therefore, the contentions of the applicant with regard to the
interval of 3 months in the transaction between flow of funds
from M/s Xindai Technologies Pvt. Ltd. to Cashfree, cashfree to
M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. to M/s Analytiq Business Ventures Pvt Ltd is frivolous. 5.4 It is submitted that funds travelled in M/s Melanic
Solutions Pvt. Ltd. from cashfree in the Month of March 2023
and therefore, the contention of the applicant that POC
transferred from M/s Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. to KDS and
Ranjan were transferred prior to funds received in M/s Melanic
Solutions Pvt. Ltd. from cashfree is explicitly false and
misconceived. Further, Mr. Mohit Kotnala, Director of M/s
Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd. had categorically stated in his
statement recorded under Section 50 PMLA on 21.08.2025 that
Amit Singhal obtained credentials of Sh. Mohit Kotnala and his

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 49 of 85
 wife Smt. Reenaxi Kotnala and incorporated M/s Melanic
Solutions Pvt. Ltd. on their names. He came to know that Amit
Singhal was working for Sh. Pankaj Wadhwa who was working
for the applicant. Furthermore, Sh. Pankaj Wadhwa had also
stated in his statement recorded under Section 50 PMLA that he
was working for the applicant. From the aforesaid, it is evident
that the applicant was associated with M/s Melanic Solutions
Pvt. Ltd. 5.5 It is submitted that Sh. Aveng Sharma, Director of
M/s Truvinta Solutions Pvt. Ltd., had categorically stated in his
statement recorded under Section 50 PMLA on 22.08.2025 that
Amit Singhal obtained credentials of Sh. Aveg Sharma and his
employee Ms. Seema and incorporated M/s Truvinta Solutions
Pvt. Ltd. in their names. He came to know that Amit Singhal was
working for Sh. Pankaj Wadhwa who was working for the
applicant. Furthermore, Sh. Pankaj Wadhwa had also stated in
his statement recorded under Section 50 PMLA that he was
working for the applicant. Further, Sh. Lalit Arora, employee of
the applicant has received salary from M/s Truvinta Solutions
Pvt. Ltd. Sh. Lalit Arora had categorically stated in his statement
that M/s Truvinta Solutions Pvt. Ltd. was operated by the
applicant and hence it is evident that the applicant was associated
with M/s Truvinta Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 5.6 It is submitted that the facts narrated in the

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 50 of 85
 Prosecution Complaint clearly substantiates the relationship of
the applicant with the M/s KDS Forex Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Ranjan
Money Corp. Pvt. Ltd. 5.7 It is submitted that bail on humanitarian ground is
granted where no other family member is available to take care
the ailing family member, however, the applicant is not the only
immediate family member who can provide the required support
to his ailing mother and therefore, the said ground is devoid of
any merits and liable to be rejected. 5.8 Ld. Special Counsel/SPPs for the ED have relied
upon Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India &
Ors. 2022 SCC Online SC 929, Tarun Kumar v. Assistant
Director 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1486, Union of India v. Kanhaiya
Prasad 2025 SCC Online SC 306, Gautam Kundu vs. Directorate
of Enforcement (2015) 16 SCC 1, Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji
Porwal ( 1987) 2 SCC 364, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, Anil Kumar Yadav v. State (NCT of Delhi)
( 2018) 12 SCC 129, Sunil Dahiya v. State (Govt. of NCT of
Delhi ) 2016 SCC OnLine Del 5566, Serious Fraud Investigation
Office v. Nittin Johari ( 2019) 9 SSC 165, Nimmagadda Prasad
vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ( 2013) 7 SCC 466, Rohit
Tandon v. Directorate of Enforcement (2018) 11 SCC, Aditya
Krishna v. Directorate of Enforcement High Court of Delhi Bail
Appl no. 3464/2024, Satyender Kumar Jain vs. Directorate of

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 51 of 85
 Enforcement 2024 INSC 217, Amanatullah Khan v. Enforcement
Directorate 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1658, Dr. Manik
Bhattacharya v. Ramesh Malik & ors. 2022 SCC Online SC
1465, Directorate of Enforcement v. Aditya Tripathi 2023 SCC
Online SC 619, Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. v. Church of
South India Trust Assn. ( 1992) 3 SCC 1, State of Uttar Pradesh
v. Prem Chopra 2022 SCC Online SC 1770, Naya Samaj Parents
Assn. v. Appejay School Sheikh Sarai 2025 SCC Online Del
3867, Kapila Hingorani (I) v. State of Bihar (2003) 6 SCC 1,
Jacqueline Fernandez v. Directorate of Enforcement dated
14.9.2022 Crl M.C. No. 9462/2023, Virendra Khanna v. State of
Karnataka & anr. 2021 SCC Online Kar 5032, Maheshdan
Prabhudan Langa v. State of Gujarat dated 31.7.2025 Criminal
Misc. Application No. 7538/2025, Pavana Dibbur v.
Enforcement of Directorate 2023 SCC Online SC 1586, Y. Balaji
v. Karthik Desari & anr. 2023 SCC Online SC 645, Anoop
Bartaria v. Dy. Director Enforcement Directorate & anr. SLP
(Crl) No. 2397-2398/2019, K.C. Chandran v. Directorate of
Enforcement Crl . RC (MD) No. 662 of 2024 dated 27.11.2024, Sourabh v. Directorate of Enforcement M.A. No. 34/2025 dated
23.7.2025, Lovee Narula v. Enforcement Directorate 2025 SCC
Online Del 437, Pradeep Nirankarnath Sharma v. Enforcement
Directorate 2025 SCC Online SC 560, Prahlad Singh Bhati v.
NCT Delhi & anr. ( 2001) 4 SCC 280, Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd.
v. Union of India & ors. (1988) 2 SCC 299, Mansukhlal Dhanraj
Jain & ors. v. Emnath Vithal Ogale (1995) 2 SCC 665, Minor

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 52 of 85 Exports v. Enforcement Committee 2011 SCC Online Bom
1321, Aswini Kumar Ghose v. Arbinda Bose (1952) 2 SCC 237
AIR 1952 SC 369, Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab ( 2014) 2
SCR 1, CIT v. Abhishek Industries ( 2006) 286 ITR 1,
Commissioner of Income Tax v. Baroda Peoples Co-operative
Bank Ltd. ( 2006) 280 ITR 282, Saumya Chaurasia Vs.
Directorate of Enforcement ( 2024) 6 SCC 401 and P.
Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement (2020) 13 SCC 791. Findings 6. I have heard the rival contentions raised at bar,
considered the bail application as well as its reply and also gone
through the relevant case laws relied upon by the parties. 6.1 In bail matters pertaining to offences registered
under PMLA, section 45 of the PMLA provides that bail can be
granted only if:- In nutshell what the court has to see is whether there is a genuine
case against the accused or not. 6.4 The use of the words "reasonable grounds for
believing" instead of "the evidence" in section 45 of the PMLA
imply that while dealing with the grant of bail, the court has to
only satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine case against the
accused/applicant and that the prosecution will be able to
produce prima facie evidence in support of the charge during the
trial. It is not expected, at this stage, to have the evidence
establishing the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 6.5 It is also trite that while disposing off a bail
application detailed reasons are not necessary to be assigned,
however, the court is expected to ascribe reasons for granting or

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 55 of 85
 refusal to grant bail that demonstrates application of mind at least
in serious cases. Furthermore, the consideration which should
primarily weigh with the court at the time of considering the bail
application is the nature of accusations/offence but the other
factors like the antecedents of the applicant and whether there is
chance of his tampering with the witnesses, the evidence also to
be considered, kept in mind. 6.6 It is also to be kept in mind that Section 45 (2) of the
PMLA provides that the limitations on the grant of bail under
sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations imposed under
the Cr.P.C . or any other law in force. This makes it clear that the
provisions of the PMLA are to be applied over and above the
general principles of bail applicable to criminal offences under
the Cr.P.C , thereby reinforcing the stringent approach adopted by
the legislature in dealing with money laundering offences. 6.7 While dealing with bail applications in PMLA it was
held in Sanjay Jain Vs. Enforcement Directorate 2024 SC
OnLine Del 1656 as under:- 6.8 The facts as can be culled out from the prosecution
complaint (in short PC) reveal that the present ECIR owes its
origin to FIR no. 1352/2022 dated 26.07.2022 u/s 419 / 420 of IPC
and section 66 (C) and 66(D) of the IT Act which was registered
at Cyber Crime Police Station Hyderabad on the complaint of
one Mohd. Ghouse Pasha who had alleged that he was lured by
unknown persons to invest in an App namely LOXAM, claiming
it to be related to a reputed french MNC group of the same name,
with false promises of high returns, however, after he made the
investment to the tune of Rs. 1,16,250/- in three installments,
neither the principal amount nor any returns/profit on the
principal amount was returned to him. The investigation in the
said FIR revealed that using the same modus operandi thousands
of individuals, after collecting their personal details, were

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 57 of 85
 cheated/defrauded and crores of rupees were collected using fake
Apps. After conclusion of investigation in the said matter, charge
sheet was filed against number of accused persons and the same
is sub-judice. 6.9 Section 419 and 420 IPC being the scheduled
offence under PMLA, the present case ECIR was registered on
14.10.2022, detailed investigation was carried out and PC was
filed on 28.08.2025. According to the PC, the investigation
revealed that the account mapped with the LOXAM App wherein
the investments were made by the complainant & other
individuals was of an entity namely M/s Xindai Technology Pvt.
Ltd. (in short Xindai) who is proposed accused no. 7 in the
present PC. The said entity was got registered by one Virender
Singh (proposed accused no. 6) along with his brother Devender
Singh at the instance of one Chinese national namely Jack, with
whom Virender Singh came in contact in the year 2017-18
through an online chatting App "WECHAT". On the asking of
Jack, Virender Singh opened an account with Indusind Bank
bearing account no. 258005646054 on 02.01.2022 and handed
over the internet banking credentials to him. Later on 29 virtual
accounts were opened with MyEpocket mapped with the said
account using forged signatures of Virender Singh. The physical
account of Xindai remained majorly operational from 01.03.2022
to 27.03.2022 during which period credits to the tune of Rs.
18.54 crores were received from Paytm and all the funds traveled

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 58 of 85
 to Cashfree payment gateway. The details from Cashfree
revealed that Paytm was being used as Payin while Cashfree was
being used as Payout and large number of transactions took place
in them. Both these gateways were used by Xindai for
aggregating the funds as well as for payments. In the 29 virtual
accounts of Xindai there was Payin of approximately Rs. 152.6
crores. 6.10 Further as per the PC, Xindai is connected with mail
ID [email protected] & mobile no. 8005646054 and
the SMS alert number of Xindai is 8105076832 which is a
registered mobile number with M/s Betench Network Pvt. Ltd (in
short Betench) which was having physical account nos.
50200057972150 with HDFC and 157905003305 with ICICI
Bank, with 7 virtual accounts connected with the said physical
accounts. These virtual accounts were operational for a short
period during which the transacted amount was Rs. 71.5 crores
approximately. The funds from the virtual accounts of Xindai
and Betench were traveling to two Delhi based entities namely
M/s Ranjan Moneycorp Pvt. Ltd. (in short Ranjan) and M/s KDS
Forex Pvt. Ltd. (in short KDS) as well as to other mule accounts.
According to PC "Virtual Account" is not an independent bank
account but rather a unique identification number created &
mapped to a principal/master bank account maintained by a
customer with a bank and are generally allotted for the Ltd
purposes of collection, reconciliation and identification of funds

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 59 of 85
 received from multiple counterparties. Further a virtual account
does not undergo a separate KYC process and cannot be operated
independently. Thus, a virtual account functions only as a
facilitative mechanism for fund tracking and reconciliation,
without creating a distinct banking relationship. By Mule account
the prosecution means that the account is opened, operated, or
allowed to be used for the purpose of receiving, layering, or
transferring proceeds of crime on behalf of another person, with
the intent to conceal the identity of the actual beneficiary and the
illicit origin of such funds. 6.11 According to the PC, one of the amount/investment
made by Mohd. Ghouse Pasha transferred through Paytm
payment gateway settled into virtual account no.
912213200025251 in the name of Xindai. Similarly the 29
virtual accounts in the name of Xindai on MyEpocket payment
had aggregated amount to the tune of Rs. 133 crores
approximately from Paytm payment gateway from around 9.5
lacs transactions. Xindai, as per PC, was one of the central
entities used as a conduit for layering and movement of
fraudulent funds. 6.12 The remaining two investments of Mohd. Ghouse
Pasha in the LOXAM App i.e. Rs. 37,250 and Rs. 50,000/- were
transferred through Razorpay payment gateways to virtual
accounts mapped with Yes Bank Physical Account belonging to

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 60 of 85
 M/s Xitamin Multitrade Pvt Ltd which was incorporated on
03.02.2021 and an amount of Rs. 3,30,49,277/- was aggregated
in this account from about 90000 entries and whole amount from
Virtual account was transferred to Yes Bank's physical account. 6.13 In addition to the above entities, according to the PC
the other entities extensively used for routing and layering of
fraudulent funds included M/s Skhalita Advanced Technologies
Pvt. Ltd. (in short Skhalita) which was having a physical account
with Yes Bank which was further mapped with 14 virtual
accounts on MyEpocket payment gateway platform. These
accounts transacted an amount of Rs. 60.80 crores during April
2022 to June 2022 and from these virtual accounts approximately
Rs. 30.6 lacs were transferred in two tranches into the virtual
account of Xindai apart from direct transfer to Ranjan, KDS and
several mule accounts. 6.14 The virtual accounts as well as mule accounts, as
detailed in the PC, operated for a short span of as little as 4 days
to a few months, had transactions running into several hundreds
crores and had received amounts from the virtual account of
Xindai hence acting as conduit, facilitator for transferring &
layering of the amount, which according to the PC was POC
derived from investment as well as gaming frauds. According to
PC the quantified POC of Rs. 311 crores approximately traveled
to Ranjan and KDS directly and through mule accounts. B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 61 of 85
 Subsequently, these funds were withdrawn in cash & in the form
of foreign currencies/forex and transferred out of country through
Hawala channel, leading no evidence to track its further flow.
The image of flow of POC as depicted in PC is reproduced
hereunder:- along with several proprietorships such as RM Digital
Marketing, BT Marketing, Digi India Marketing, Ganapati
Traders and others. While these entities were formally registered
in the names of employees, relatives or acquaintances-including

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 63 of 85
 his sister Sonia, father Gulshan Arora, cousin Akshay Dhawan,
employees like Vivek Jha, Akash Garg & others but actual
beneficial ownership & control always remained with him. 6.17 It is also alleged against him that he in association
with other accused persons played important role in forming the
above shell entities, which were used for integration, layering,
rotation & parking of the POC to hide its actual source and
nature. After conversion of POC into forex & cash he siphoned
off part of the POC to Dubai, where he integrated & layered the
POC into his hotel business and projected these funds as
untainted. Bulk of the POC was siphoned off through hawala and
other illegal means. 6.18 With such being the allegations against him what the
court at the stage of bail has to see is whether the applicant is
able to fulfill the first of the twin conditions provided u/s 45 of
PMLA i.e. he has been able to satisfy this court that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of the
alleged offence. However, on a careful consideration of the PC, I
am of the considered opinion that the applicant has failed to
accord the said satisfaction. 6.19 According to the PC, M/s Analytiq Business
Ventures Pvt. Ltd., M/s Bestpay Solutions Pvt. Ltd., M/s
Levelnext Ideas Pvt. Ltd., M/s Freebie Solutions Pvt. Ltd., M/s

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 64 of 85
 Melanic Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Shark Enroll System Pvt. Ltd. etc.
i.e. entities created for integration, layering and parking of the
POC were controlled by the applicant and the actual beneficial
ownership of these entities remained with him. These entities had
multiple transactions not only interse but also with Cashfree
Payment Services Ltd with whom Xindai had also multiple
transactions. Furthermore, some of these entities also had
transactions with KDS & Ranjan. In support of the said
allegations, the ED/prosecution is relying upon the bank
statements received from Cashfree, Paytm, MyEpocket etc. as
well as statements of bank accounts of these entities. ED is also
relying upon statements of number of witnesses including the
Directors as well as employees who have confirmed that they
were name-sake or dummy directors, inducted without financial
contribution and acted only on the applicant's instructions. His
close aides, particularly Vivek Jha (accountant) and Akshay
Dhawan (cousin) managed banking operations, internet banking
credentials, incorporation documents, OTPs etc. all under his
supervision. Even frontmen like Pankaj Wadhwa, Amit Singhal,
and Atresh facilitated incorporation of sham entities and misused
KYC documents but the financial strategy and fund flow control
remained with the applicant. 6.20 During the course of investigation number of
individuals were examined by ED and their statements were
recorded u/s 50 of PMLA. One of such person is

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 65 of 85
 co-accused/proposed accused Pankaj Wadhwa. As per his
statement RTGS-to-Cash transactions were carried out between
August 2021 to January 2022 through co-accused/proposed
accused Anurag Aggarwal and it was the applicant who was
solely managing the business of RTGS-to-Cash/forex conversion
and the applicant used to keep all the phones through which such
transactions were executed. Money was converted into
cash/forex through Ranjan & KDS, in which the amount was
accumulated through shell entities, virtual accounts of Xindai,
Betench etc. which was further transferred abroad via hawala
channels and partly through cryptocurrency (USDT/Tether).
According to him, the applicant arranged the bank accounts used
for unauthorized/hawala transactions which accounts were
operational for only 1-2 months before being replaced by new
ones. 6.21 Pankaj Wadhwa in his statement also confirmed that
entities such as M/s Analytiq Business Ventures Pvt. Ltd., M/s
Levelnext Ideas Pvt. Ltd, M/s Bestpay Solutions Pvt. Ltd, M/s
URPay Solutions Pvt. Ltd., M/s Faithpay Systems Pvt. Ltd., M/s
R M Digital Marketing, M/s BT Marketing, M/s Digi India
Marketing and M/s Truvinta Solutions Pvt. Ltd. were
incorporated & controlled by the applicant for RTGS-to-Cash
transactions. In addition to his statement Pankaj Wadhwa also
submitted WhatsApp chat screenshots between the applicant and
one Shailesh Podar which establishes applicant's direct control

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 66 of 85
 over shell companies, bank accounts, hawala operators and
transaction management. The chats include lists of shell entities,
UTR numbers, payment confirmations, account freezes, and
settlement calculations. He has also stated about handing over
banking credentials of M/s Shark Enroll Systems Pvt. Ltd. from
Thakur Dayapal Singh to Akshay and Vivek Jha on the
instructions of the applicant and that a whatsapp group was
created by the applicant, of which one Sh. Daljeet Singh was also
a member, on which RTGS/UTR details were shared. Further as
per his statement applicant also used M/s Truvinta Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. for transaction entries and he used to transfer money on the
applicant's direction to the various vendors who needed entries
and in return cash was collected. Also two properties were
purchased by him with the applicant which have since been
attached by the ED in another matter i.e. ECIR No.
GWZO-II/09/2022 dated 12.04.2022. 6.22 Anurag Aggarwal in his statement acknowledged his
acquittance with Pankaj Wadhwa, Sahil Bajaj and the applicant.
According to him it was Sahil Bajaj who arranged the bank
accounts of Ranjan and KDS, which were run by Rohit Vij &
Navneet Kaushik, for conversion of RTGS to cash and shared the
details with Pankaj Wadhwa. It is ED's case that these two
entities had Sonu & Lakhmi Chand and Mehtab Alam &
Mohammad as Directors, however, they were merely dummy
Directors and Anurag Aggarwal interacted with Rohit Vij only

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 67 of 85
 for the purpose of RTGS to cash conversion using these entities.
Anurag Aggarwal has also stated about knowing the applicant as
well as visiting him at Dubai and that at times he used to deliver
foreign currency to him. Furthermore the applicant also used to
send him tokens and arranged person for foreign currency
collection. 6.23 Other individuals whose statement u/s 50 of PMLA
was recorded include co-accused/proposed accused Rohit Vij and
Sahil Bajaj who have also stated about how these RTGS to cash
transactions were carried out and how they came to know each
other and other co-accused persons. Sahil Bajaj also stated about
Rohit Vij's links with Chinese nationals who were indulging in
similar activities. These statements will be duly appreciated at
the time of trial and at this stage only a broader look of the same
is required. 6.24 Vikas Kumar, Chartered Accountant in his statement
named the applicant as the key person running as well as looking
after the day to day work and financial activities of M/s Freebie
and M/s Analytiq and stated how he was operating the other
entities including M/s Levelnext, M/s BestPay, M/s URpay etc.
The role these entities played especially M/s Analytiq and M/s
Freebie in layering & integration has been detailed in the PC. I
have also considered the statements of other individuals/
witnesses including Daljeet Singh, Akash Garg, Thakur, Dayapal

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 68 of 85
 Singh etc. linking the applicant to above entities and how the
RTGS to cash transactions were being carried out. Daljeet Singh
in particular has stated how he interacted with the Chinese
nationals at the instance of the applicant who used to transfer the
funds in the accounts whose details were provided by Akshay
and Vivek at the directions of the applicant and thereafter cash
was collected by Lalit Arora. Furthermore he had seen cash
being handed over to the applicant. 6.25 Lalit Arora in his statement has also detailed how
business of RTGS-to-cash/forex was carried out by the applicant
which was then handed over to hawala operators. According to
him the applicant had provided him a phone on which he used to
give instructions to him and accordingly he collected cash/forex
and delivered the same to the applicant. According to him the
applicant was in the business providing payment gateway to
betting, gaming and investment Apps against which service he
used to receive lot of cash. 6.26 Aveg Sharma in his statement has stated as to how
he and one Seema Sharma were made Directors in M/s Truvinta
Solutions Pvt. Ltd by one Amit Singhal who was working for
Pankaj Wadhwa who in turn was working for the applicant and
as per the PC an amount of Rs. 17.4 crore was transferred by the
said entity to Ranjan and KDS. Similarly, Mohit Kotnala has
stated that he along with his wife were made Directors in M/s

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 69 of 85
 Melanic solutions Pvt. Ltd by Sh. Amit Singhal again at the
instance of the applicant. M/s Melanic's fund transfer to various
entities and accounts including KDS and Ranjan has been
detailed in the PC. 6.27 ED has also recorded statement of Indu Prabh
Sharma according to whom the applicant misled him and
obtained his KYC documents including PAN card, aadhar card,
photograph etc. and that he signed multiple documents at his
instance. These documents were allegedly used by the applicant
to incorporate an entity M/s Digi India Marketing and the
account related to the said entity had transacted an amount of Rs.
1500 crore approximately. Then there are statements of Sonu and
Lakhmi Chand whose statements explain how Ranjan came into
existence and that it was Rohit Vij and Navneet Kaushik lured
them in opening the bank account in the name of this entity. 6.28 This is not the stage to meticulously examine or
weigh the testimony of these witnesses and the same is a matter
of trial, however, a look at the statement of these individuals or
for that matter of the other co-accused persons and witnesses
provides more than enough linkage, connection of the applicant
with the entities in question. Furthermore, the transactions by
these entities perse appears to be shady, dubious more so
considering how these entities were founded and operating.
Multiple transactions running into thousands in a short span of

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 70 of 85
 time sans logic and itself smells of foul play. These statements,
as per the settled legal position, hold evidentiary value & are
admissible in legal proceedings and they do make out a
formidable case, especially when considered in light of other
material on record, about the applicant's involvement in layering,
integration of POC. These statements establish the link between
the co-accused persons as also the role played by the Chinese
nationals and the fact that the applicant was one of the master
minds if not the only one in layering of the POC as well as other
funds which have no legitimate source of origin. At page no. 212
of the PC the flow of funds of POC from Xindai, in whose
virtual account & which virtual account was mapped with its
physical account, to various entities has been depicted. The flow
depicts how in a highly coordinated, systematic manner number
of virtual, mule accounts and entities were used for movement of
POC as well as other funds after multiple layering. According to
the PC the applicant was the mastermind and the ultimate
beneficiary of the POC. He was integral to the entire scheme and
ultimately siphoned off the POC using hawala channels. The
image of the flow is reproduced hereunder:- Furthermore the applicant's name also appears in the statement
of Pankaj Wadhwa and Anurag Aggarwal as recorded by the
investigating agency in the predicate matter. Also in one of the
report submitted before the Court dealing with the predicate
matter, the applicant's name came up in the statement of one Lec
@ Li Zhongjun who was arrested in the said matter and also
charge sheeted. The said report is part of the PC as RUD A61. 6.32 The statements of the witnesses and the co-accused
persons recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA coupled with
the other material on record including the chats, as has been
discussed above, prima facie show that the applicant was
knowingly a party and actually involved in the process and
activities connected with the POC and that he was projecting,
claiming such POC as untainted as well as using the same to
further his business activities abroad/Dubai. He was the
beneficiary of the POC acquired through the criminal activities
relating to the scheduled offence and the money trail ended with
him, atleast during the investigation he did not provide any
details as to where ultimately the laundered money went apart
from the one used by him for setting up his business activities at
Dubai. As per Section 24 (b) of the PMLA the Court is entitled
to invoke the statutory presumption and may presume that such

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 75 of 85
 POC are involved in money laundering. Considering the
quantum of money involved, it's layering by repeated circulation
in virtual, mule accounts associated with dummy entities as well
as entities owned, controlled and operated by the applicant, it is a
fit case where the said presumption should be necessarily
invoked. As per the PC, total sum of Rs. 903 crores
approximately aggregated, accumulated in Ranjan & KDS which
sum/amount was POC and after its conversion into cash/forex
same was laundered through hawala channels. Further it is
alleged that it was the applicant who was instrumental in
laundering the same through hawala channel. Statements of
Directors of Ranjan & KDS, as recorded by the ED, establishes
that they were mere dummy Directors and the real control was
with Rohit Vij and Navneet Kaushik who were associated with
the applicant through Pankaj Wadhwa and Anurag Aggarwal. 6.33 It was also one of the argument of Ld. Counsel for
the applicant that the alleged defrauded/cheated amount of
Mohd. Ghouse Pasha is/was only 1.16 lakh and therefore, the
amount being less than 1 crore, the applicant should be exempt
from the rigours of section 45 of the PMLA in light of the
proviso attached to the said section. As far as the said arguments
are concerned, according to the PC, the quantified POC as on
date is Rs. 311 crores. No doubt it is only such property which is
derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of criminal

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 76 of 85
 activity relating to schedule offence which can be regarded as
POC, however, in addition to the amount cheated from Mohd.
Ghouse Pasha several crores of rupees had also come to Xindai
& Xitaman. The flow of funds as depicted in the PC reveals that
those amounts, several hundred crores of rupees kept circulating
in numerous virtual and mule accounts linked with different
entities some of which were owned & operated by the applicant
including Melanic and Analytiq. Several hundreds transactions
circulating several hundreds crores of rupees took place in very
short span of time which itself is prima facie proof of money
laundering, layering so as to bury the real origin of the funds
including POC otherwise these transactions sans logic, have no
legitimate basis. 6.34 According to the PC, the applicant is involved with
the process of not only concealment, layering but is also alleged
to have used the POC/the funds withdrawn from those accounts
for his business at Dubai. Also during the course of arguments, it
was pointed out by the ED that more than 200 complaints have
been downloaded from the Ministry of Home's website with
allegations of cyber fraud through similar as well as different
modus operandi. The amount cheated from these investors
including through LOXAM App were aggregated, layered in
various virtual, mule accounts, accounts of shell entities already
under scanner, involved in the present matter and further

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 77 of 85
 investigation in this regard is still open. Though the exact amount
is yet to be quantified but it surely is running into several crores
of rupees. 6.35 It will also be worthwhile to recapitulate the
definitions of "proceeds of crime" and the explanation attached
to it in section 2(u) of the PMLA which reads as under: Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that
 "proceeds of crime" include property not only derived or obtained from
 the scheduled offence but also any property which may directly or
 indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity
 relatable to the scheduled offence." 6.36 Thus the POC not only includes property derived or
obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property which
may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of
any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence. The act
of multiple layering, creation of mule accounts and dummy
entities, use of certain entities though in the name of the family
members or the employee but controlled & operated by the
applicant and the constant flow of funds including POC between
the accounts linked to the LOXAM App and the accounts in the
name of those entities, through payment gateway, is not only a
process connected with the POC for it's concealment, possession

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 78 of 85
 etc. but also what was obtained by the applicant was as a result of
criminal activity related to the scheduled offence. At this stage it
will be worthwhile to note the following observations of Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi in Lovee Narula (supra): 6.37 Similarly was observed in Aditya Krishna (supra)
wherein it was held as under:- B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 80 of 85
 6.38 Especially at this stage what ED has to show and is
able to show is that there was generation of POC, which as
detailed in the PC was generated, accumulated through LOXAM
App and thereafter, the same was layered multiple times through
virtual, mule accounts and use of dummy entities as well as
entities controlled by the applicant so as to conceal it's origin and
the applicant was involved in the process till the time the money
trail went cold. His involvement with the process, activity in
connection with POC renders the application liable to be rejected
as he is unable to meet the first of the twin conditions provided
under section 45 of the PMLA. 6.39 As far as the other condition provided u/s 45 of
PMLA is concerned, it is difficult and almost impossible to
predict how an individual would conduct himself in the future,
however, the antecedents of an individual, the way he conducted
himself in the past, his propensities & nature and the manner in
which he committed the offence can provide a guiding hand to
the court while deciding whether the applicant/accused fulfills
the said condition or not. In the case at hand, the applicant's
antecedents are far from being clean. In addition to his
involvement in the present case and how with great design &
scheme intended for personal gains he laundered the POC, it is to
be seen that he is involved in a number of criminal cases. The
details of these cases is duly mentioned in the PC and for ready

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 81 of 85
 reference the FIR nos. are 24/2024 PS Cyber Cell Faridabad,
14/2023 PS Cyber Cell Central Delhi, 17/2024 PS PS Cyber
Cell Central Delhi and FIR no. 3/2021 PS Cyber Crime Kohima
Nagaland. In ECIR/GWZO-II-09-2022 the amount involved/
POC/money laundering is more than Rs. 2200 crores and in the
said matter the conduct of the applicant was such that NBWs
were issued against him and he was declared a Fugitive
Economic Offender. Though these proceedings/orders were
subsequently stayed but the fact that such a stage did come in the
said matter does speak volume about the conduct of the applicant
and there are all chances that if enlarged on bail that he will
indulge himself in criminal activities of the present nature.
Considering his conduct, it is difficult to conclude that he will
not commit any offence while being on bail. 6.40 Furthermore, according to the PC, the applicant had
shifted his business activities to Dubai in 2022 and in May 2025
he traveled to India via Nepal. Why he traveled to India via
Nepal could not be satisfactorily explained by the applicant
when considered in light of the fact that LOC/RCN/NBWs were
issued against him, it further shows the conduct, criminal bent of
mind of the applicant. These days it has become common for
those indulging in economic offences, activities relating to
money laundering as well as other criminals to use bordering
nations especially Nepal to escape as well as enter India so as to

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 82 of 85
 avoid arrest or detection by the investigating agencies. This not
only makes the task of the investigating agencies more difficult
but also leaves the said route open for exploitation by such
individuals/economic offenders at their whims and fancies. Also
as per the PC, the applicant had not cooperated during the
investigation of the present matter and failed to operate his phone
which was seized by the Faridabad police. 6.41 His involvement in various cases, alleged money
laundering activities running into several hundred of crores
completely outweighs the plea of personal liberty and the plea to
be released on humanitarian ground. No doubt bail is the rule and
refusal is an exception but the question is can the ramifications of
economic offences of the present magnitude be ignored. The
answer is NO. It is well known that money laundering activities
pose a serious threat to the financial health of the country as also
to its sovereignty & integrity. The economic offences have
serious repercussions on the development of the country as a
whole, however, the way these activities affect a common man is
far more drastic. An individual defrauded, cheated of his hard
earned money not only suffers from financial hardship but also
mental anguish. Often a common cheated of his hard earned
money, life savings takes a drastic step. His only fault being that
he got lured to invest in certain ponzi schemes, investment
opportunity just to provide more to his family. The economic
offences of the present nature harms the poor individuals and

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 83 of 85
 communities who are more vulnerable to exploitation and lack
resources to recover the lost money. The poor victims gets
stripped of their assets leaving them in precarious financial
situation. Such offences have the effect of further marginalizing
the already vulnerable section of the society. These victims face
colossal losses in both direct and indirect forms. 6.42 In very few cases there is restitution of his duped
amount/funds as despite detailed investigation the money trail
cannot be ascertained and it invariably goes cold. While the
common man toils, almost dies everyday to meet his daily needs
& support his family, those indulging in economic offences,
money laundering activities lead a lavish lifestyle. They live in
mansion, move around in luxury cars, own hotels, clubs etc.
which does not come from any legitimate business, rather it
comes from the cheated, defrauded amount of the common man
who merely aspires to survive. When a common man sees
individuals who otherwise have built their empires on the
strength of money laundering activities, economic offences, he
too aspires to live like him not realizing and being completely
unaware that it is his defrauded amount/money, the one which he
earned with honesty & hard labour, which is the foundation of
the lifestyle of such an individual. 6.43 The applicant represents a syndicate, rather he is the
face of the syndicate which involves Chinese nationals who came

B. Appl. no. 236/25 Bhupesh Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement 84 of 85
 together to cheat, defraud thousands of individuals of their hard
earned money and used the said money for their nefarious
designs, to lead a lavish lifestyle. This is not the stage to adjudge
the guilt or innocence of the accused/applicant but merely to see
whether he is involved in the alleged money laundering activities
or not. His guilt or innocence shall be adjudged after the trial but
once he seeks bail he has to show that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that he is not guilty of the offence of money
laundering and he has miserably failed to do so. 6.44 Therefore in view of the above discussion, the bail
application stands dismissed. At request copy of order be given
dasti.