% 03.07.2023
 I.A. 4235/2023 (Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC)

 The lis 1. This suit, at the instance of Zydus Wellness Products Ltd
 (―Zydus‖) is directed against the following products of Defendant 1
 Cipla Healthcare Ltd (―Cipla‖): 2. The plaintiff manufactures and sells the following product,
 combining Glucose and Vitamin D: 3. Zydus and Cipla, being the main dramatis personae, would be
 referred to by the epithets ―plaintiff‖ and ―defendants‖ (since Allozen
 Pharma Pvt. Ltd., as Defendant 2, is a distributor of Cipla) is also
 respectively. 4. The plaintiff alleges that (i) the marks ―GLUCO-C‖ and ―GLUCO-D‖ are deceptively
 similar to the plaintiff's registered trade marks ―GLUCON-C‖
 and ―GLUCON-D‖, (ii) the trade dress adopted by the defendant infringes the
 copyright of the plaintiff in the trade dress of its ―GLUCON-D‖, (iii) the trade dress of the defendant's product is, even
 otherwise, so similar to the trade dress of the plaintiff's product
 as to exacerbate the possibility of confusion and deception for
 the purposes of Section 29(2)(b)1 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999
 and (iv) the defendant is also, thereby, seeking to pass off its
 products as those of the plaintiff. 5. The plaintiff is the proprietor of, inter alia, (i) the word mark ―GLUCON-D‖ (a) in Class 30, for glucose, flour and preparations
 made from cereals, bread, biscuits, pastry and
 confectionery, milk chocolate, 1 29. Infringement of registered trade mark. - *****

 (2) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a registered proprietor or
 a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of trade, a mark which because of-- (a) its identity with the registered trade mark and the similarity of the goods or
 services covered by such registered trade mark; or (b) its similarity to the registered trade mark and the identity or similarity of the
 goods or services covered by such registered trade mark; or (c) its identity with the registered trade mark and the identity of the goods or
 services covered by such registered trade mark,
 is likely to cause confusion on the part of the public, or which is likely to have an association with Signature Not Verified the registered trade mark. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 3 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 (b) in Class 29, for dried milk and preparations
 containing dried milk not being infants and invalid foods,
 dried or preserved foods edible oils and fats and (c) in Class 32 for mineral and aerated waters and
 other non-alcoholic drinks, syrups and other preparations
 for making beverages, (ii) the word mark ―GLUCON-C‖, in Class 30 for glucose,
 flour and preparations made from cereals, bread, biscuits, pastry
 and confectionery, milk chocolate, (iii) the earlier ―GLUCON-D‖ pack as a device mark in Class
 30 for glucose, flour and preparations made from cereals, bread,
 biscuits, pastry and confectionery, milk chocolate, and (iv) the ―GLUCON-D‖ Tangy Orange pack
 as a device mark in Class 30 for glucose based beverage mix
 being glucose for food included in Class 30. 6. Applications by the petitioner for registration of the labels

 and as device marks are pending with the
 Registrar of Trade Marks. 7. Prior to adopting the new labels for its ―GLUCON-D‖, the
 plaintiff was using the following packing, which, as already noted,
 stands registered as a device mark in the plaintiff's favour: 8. The defendant's mark is not registered either as a word mark or
 as a device mark. 9. This is the factual backdrop in which the present dispute arises.
 On facts, there is no dispute. One may, therefore, proceed directly to
 the rival contentions of learned Counsel for the parties, as contained in
 the pleadings and as urged by learned Senior Counsel before me. Rival Contentions

 Submissions of Mr. Chander M. Lall, learned Senior Counsel for the
 plaintiff 10. Mr. Lall submits that, despite the overall design of the
 ―GLUCON-D‖ pack having changed from time to time, certain
 essential features, like the overall colour combination, the inverted
 white triangle in which ―GLUCON -D‖ is written, the contents of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 5 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 product being reflected at the lower edge of the pack and the picture of
 a happy family consisting a husband, wife and child, prominently
 figuring on the pack, have remained unchanged. Certain new features
 have now been introduced, like a slanted side panel with the words

 ―Instant Energy‖ written on it ( ) and the use of a motif of two
 batteries to reflect the instantly energizing effect of the drink at the

 rear of the pack ( ). These features, too, submits Mr. Lall,
 have been duplicated by the defendant in its ―Gluco-C ++‖ product.
 Mr. Lall emphasizes the following infringing/deceptively similar
 features: The manner in which the plaintiff and defendant use the motif
 are as under: Plaintiff's Glucon-D Defendant's Gluco-C ++ (iv) Alongside the batteries motif, the plaintiff prints ―For
 Instant Energy GLUCON-D‖, whereas the defendant prints ―For
 Instant Energy Gluco-C ++‖. (v) The defendant has copied the green colour scheme for the
 regular, and the orange colour scheme for the orange, variants
 of their respective products. (vi) The defendant has copied the words ―Tangy Orange‖ for
 the orange variant of its product, just like the plaintiff. 11. Mr. Lall submits that the plaintiff is a market leader in the
 energy drink product range, with its GLUCON-D Tangy Orange
 commanding 74% of the market. GLUCON-D Tangy Orange is,
 therefore, the market leader in the orange glucose powder category.
 The mark ―GLUCON-D‖ has, therefore, become a source identifier
 for the plaintiff. 12. Mr. Lall submits that the defendant was marketing its product
 under the mark ―Prolyte‖ and has, with clear mala fide intent, now
 started using ―Gluco C ++‖ and ―Gluco D ++‖ alongside ―Prolyte‖, so
 that the brand name now reads ―Prolyte Gluco C ++‖ and ―Prolyte
 Gluco D ++‖, with the intent of creating confusion in the mind of the
 customer into believing an association between the defendant's and
 the plaintiff's products. The impugned product of the defendant, he
 submits, is not available online either on Amazon or Flipkart. He
 submits that, on giving a search thread ―Gluco-D‖ on Amazon, the
 only product, other than the plaintiff's, which is thrown up as a search
 result is Dabur's ―GLUCOPLUS C‖. Similarly, if one were to search
 using ―Cipla Gluco-D‖, the earlier ―Prolyte‖ product of the defendant
 is displayed. A Flipkart search of ―Cipla Gluco-D‖, too, does not
 throw up the defendant's impugned product. Similar is the result on
 the ―1mg‖ and Pharmeasy websites. Clearly, therefore, submits Mr.
 Lall, the defendants are merely testing the waters, creating, in the
 process, rampant confusion. The impugned products are, Mr. Lall
 submits, not even reflected on the defendants' own website, which

 merely shows the product . 13. Mr. Lall submits that, in devising the trade dress for its product,
 the defendants has lifted, from the plaintiff's trade dress, (i) the
 distinctive side panel, and (ii) the ―two battery‖ motif, and has adopted
 an overall similar packing. He emphasizes the majority market share Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 8 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 that his client holds, to contend that the defendants' intent was merely
 to capitalize on the plaintiff's reputation. The shape of the plaintiff's
 pack, and its overall get up, he submits, are exclusively associated
 with the plaintiff. 14. Mr. Lall submits that ―Gluco-D‖ is structurally and phonetically
 similar to ―GLUCON-D‖, the only difference being the absence of the
 ―N‖. The overall trade dress of the two products is also, in his
 submission, deceptively similar. He has drawn my attention to para 1
 of the plaint, which sets out the features of similarity between the two
 products thus: Plaintiff's GLUCON-D Defendants' GLUCO-D 1. The Defendants have dishonestly adopted the mark GLUCO-D, which is
 virtually identical to the Plaintiff's well-known mark which is virtually
 identical to the Plaintiff's well-known mark GLUCON-D. In fact, the
 Defendants have only deleted the alphabet ―N‖. The Defendants are even
 copied the hyphen like the Plaintiffs places between GLUCON and D. 2. The Defendants have also copied and indented packaging wherein on the
 vertical edge of the packaging there is a slight indentation and on a yellow
 background, the words INSTANT ENERGY is written in a prominent and Signature Not Verified bold manner. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 9 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 1. The Plaintiff's product uses a device of two batteries placed within glasses,
 with varying degrees of charge, to show a comparison of the product vis-à-vis
 an Ordinary Drink. The Defendants make use of an almost identical device of
 batteries to show a similar comparison. 2. The Defendants have also copied wordings on packaging such as ―For Instant
 Energy, GLUCON-D‖ versus ―For Instant Energy GLUCO-D ++‖. 15. Mr. Lall points out that the defendants have admitted that, in its
 brand name, (i) ―Gluco‖ is an abbreviation of ―Glucose‖, (ii) ―D‖ and
 ―C‖ referred to Vitamin D and Vitamin C respectively and (iii) ―++‖ is
 used to refer to the additional ingredients Calcium and flavour. Mr.
 Lall submits that, if the defendants were, in any case, using two ―+‖ s
 signs to denote the presence of additional ingredients, there was no
 justification for using the hyphenated ―-D‖ and ―-C‖ suffixes. This, he
 submits, could only be to create confusion with the plaintiff's
 registered trademark. 16. Mr. Lall emphasises the contention of the defendants that, in
 their brand name, ―Gluco-D‖ is only used as a product identifier, and
 not as a trademark. 17. As the sales of the defendants' products have commenced only
 in December 2022, the balance of convenience would also, submits
 Mr. Lall, be in favour of grant of injunction as sought by the plaintiff,
 pending disposal of the suit. Though the defendants have asserted, in
 their reply to IA 4235/2023, that it had launched, and has been
 marketing, ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D++‖ since May
 2022, Mr. Lall submits that the contention is belied by the invoices
 that the defendants have chosen to place on record in support thereof,
 which reflect sales only of the ―Prolyte Gluco-C‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-
 D‖ products. 18. Mr. Lall further submits that, though the plaintiff has
 discontinued manufacture and sale of GLUCON-C, the residual
 goodwill that remains in the brand is also entitled to protection, for
 which purpose he cites the judgment of this Court in Saga Life
 Sciences v. Aristo Pharmaceutical Pvt. Ltd.2. He submits that,
 further, the registration held by the plaintiff in the mark ―GLUCON-
 C‖ continues, and has not been abandoned. 19. Mr. Lall has placed reliance on (i) paras 9, 15, 16, 19 and 22 of Corn Products Refining Co. (vii) para 55 of Nature‟s Essence Pvt Ltd v. Protogreen Retail
 Solutions Pvt Ltd9 , ( viii) Marico Ltd v. Agro Tech Foods Ltd10 , (ix) para 49 of Moonshine Technology Pvt Ltd v. Tictok Still
 Games Pvt Ltd11 , (x) para 77 of Intercontinental Great Brands v. Parle
 Product Pvt Ltd12 and (xi) para-67 of Cadbury India Ltd v. Neeraj Food Products13 . Submissions of Mr. Amit Sibal, on behalf of the defendants 20. A major part of the submissions of Mr. Amit Sibal, learned
 Senior Counsel for the defendants, concentrate on questioning the
 validity of the marks that the plaintiff seeks to assert. The
 registrations granted to the plaintiff for the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖, he submits, are invalid, and the marks are liable to
 removed from the register of Trade Marks. He submits that the
 presumption of validity of a registered trade mark, that Section 31(1) 14 6 (1969) 2 SCC 131 7 (1969) 2 SCC 727 8 (1972) 1 SCC 618 9 2021 (86) PTC 225 10 174 (2010) DLT 279 (DB) 11 288 (2022) DLT 195 12 2023 SCC OnLine Del 728 13 142 (2007) DLT 724 14 31. Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity. - (1) In all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered under this Act (including Signature Not Verified applications under Section 57 ), the original registration of the trade mark and of all subsequent Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 12 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 of the Trade Marks Act confers, is merely prima facie, and is
 rebuttable. He relies, for this purpose, on Section 12415 of the Trade
 Marks Act. All that Section 31(2) proscribes, submits Mr. Sibal, is the
 holding of a registered trade mark to be invalid on the ground that it
 was not registerable under Section 9 . A mark which infracts clauses (a) and (b) of Section 9(1) 16 is, nonetheless, prima facie invalid, and

 assignments and transmissions of the trade mark shall be prima facie evidence of the validity
 thereof. (2) In all legal proceedings, as aforesaid a registered trade mark shall not be held to be
 invalid on the ground that it was not a registrable trade mark under Section 9 except upon evidence
 of distinctiveness and that such evidence was not submitted to the Registrar before registration, if it
 is proved that the trade mark had been so used by the registered proprietor or his predecessor in title
 as to have become distinctive at the date of registration. 124. Stay of proceedings where the validity of registration of the trade mark is questioned, etc. - (1) Where in any suit for infringement of a trade mark - (a) the defendant pleads that registration of the plaintiff's trade mark is invalid; or (b) the defendant raises a defence under clause (e) of sub-section (2) of Section 30 and the plaintiff pleads the invalidity of registration of the defendant's trade mark,
 the court trying the suit (hereinafter referred to as the court), shall, - (i) if any proceedings for rectification of the register in relation to the plaintiff's or
 defendant's trade mark are pending before the Registrar or the High Court, stay the suit
 pending the final disposal of such proceedings; (ii) if no such proceedings are pending and the court is satisfied that the plea
 regarding the invalidity of the registration of the plaintiff's or defendant's trade mark
 is prima facie tenable, raise an issue regarding the same and adjourn the case for a period
 of three months from the date of the framing of the issue in order to enable the party
 concerned to apply to the High Court for rectification of the register.
 (2) If the party concerned proves to the court that he has made any such application as is
 referred to in clause (b)(ii) of sub-section (1) within the time specified therein or within such
 extended time as the court may for sufficient cause allow, the trial of the suit shall stand stayed until
 the final disposal of the rectification proceedings.
 (3) If no such application as aforesaid has been made within the time so specified or within
 such extended time as the court may allow, the issue as to the validity of the registration of the trade
 mark concerned shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the court shall proceed with the suit
 in regard to the other issues in the case. (4) The final order made in any rectification proceedings referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-
 section (2) shall be binding upon the parties and the court shall dispose of the suit conformably to
 such order in so far as it relates to the issue as to the validity of the registration of the trade mark.
 (5) The stay of a suit for the infringement of a trade mark under this section shall not
 preclude the court from making any interlocutory order (including any order granting an injunction,
 directing account to be kept, appointing a receiver or attaching any property), during the period of
 the stay of the suit. 9. Absolute grounds for refusal of registration. - distinguishing the goods or services of one person from those of another person; (b) which consist exclusively of marks or indications which may serve in trade to
 designate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, values, geographical origin or the
 time of production of the goods or rendering of the service or other characteristics of the
 goods or service; (c) which consist exclusively of marks or indications which have become
 customary in the current language or in the bona fide and established practices of the Signature Not Verified trade, Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 13 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 cannot constitute the basis for a claim of injunction against the
 defendants. The ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ marks asserted
 by the plaintiff are, in Mr. Sibal's submission, prima facie invalid as
 being disentitled to registration by virtue of clauses (a) and (b) of Section 9(1) , and the plaintiff would not be entitled to the benefit of
 the proviso to Section 9(1) as it had applied for registration of the
 marks on ―proposed to be used‖ basis. Mr Sibal cites, in his support,
 paras 7 to 9 and 20 of Marico10. 21. Mr. Sibal further relies on Section 30(2)(a) 17 and 3518 of the
 Trade Marks Act which, he submits, are a complete defence to his
 client in the present case. As the marks ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ are
 purely descriptive, Mr. Sibal submits that the defendants cannot be
 injuncted from the use thereof. He also relies on the fact that the
 plaintiff has, while obtaining registration for the marks ―GLUCON-C‖
 and ―GLUCON-D‖, disclaimed the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖, so that the
 only part of the marks which the plaintiff could assert would be
 ―Glucon‖. shall not be registered: *****
 (2) A registered trade mark is not infringed where - (a) the use in relation to goods or services indicates the kind, quality, quantity,
 intended purpose, value, geographical origin, the time of production of goods or of
 rendering of services or other characteristics of goods or services; 35. Saving for use of name, address or description of goods or services. - Nothing in this Act shall
 entitle the proprietor or a registered user of a registered trade mark to interfere with any bona fide use by a
 person of his own name or that of his place of business, or of the name, or of the name of the place of
 business, of any of his predecessors in business, or the use by any person of any bona fide description of the
 character or quality of his goods or services. 22. Mr. Sibal relies on the judgment of the Division Bench of this
 Court in Marico10 to contend that there is, in fact, no infringement of
 the plaintiff's ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ marks in any class
 in which either of the marks is registered. He emphasizes the words
 ―if valid‖ employed in Section 28(1) 19 of the Trade Marks Act. He
 points out that, in para 18 of the written statement filed by way of
 response to the suit, the defendants have specifically pleaded that the
 plaintiff's marks would not be entitled to the benefit of the proviso to Section 9(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, as the applications for
 registration of the said marks were filed on ―proposed to be used‖
 basis. Mr Sibal points out that, in para G of the rejoinder in the
 present application, the plaintiff has admitted that it has been using the
 ―Glucon-D‖ mark since 1982 and the ―Glucon-C‖ mark in 1984,
 which implies that, at the time when registration of the said marks
 were obtained by the plaintiff, it had no user of the marks whatsoever.
 There could, therefore, be no question of the marks having become
 distinctive to the plaintiff within the meaning of the proviso to Section
 9(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act. 23. The marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ are, he submits,
 descriptive of the kind, quality and intended purpose of the products in
 respect of which they had been registered and were, therefore, not
 registerable. Based on the law enunciated in paras 24 to 29 of
 Marico10, Mr Sibal submits that no action for infringement of the
 ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ marks asserted by the plaintiff was 19 28. Rights conferred by registration. - (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the registration of a trade mark shall, if valid,
 give to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in
 relation to the goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief Signature Not Verified in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by this Act. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 15 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 legally maintainable. Mr Sibal further relies on para 30 of Marico10 to
 contend that ―Glucon‖ being a tweaked form of ―Glucose‖, the
 plaintiff could not, by claim of exclusivity over ―Glucon‖, block the
 use of ―Gluco‖ by the defendants. 24. Further relying on para 33 of Marico10, Mr. Sibal submits that,
 in proceedings under Order XXXIX of the CPC , the Court can
 concern itself only with the user of the marks asserted in the plaint
 upto the date of their registration. 25. When the plaintiff applied for registration of its ―GLUCON-D‖
 mark, submits Mr. Sibal, the Registry of Trade Marks objected on the
 ground that, in view of the pre-existing registered trademarks
 GLUCANIL, GLUCOTONE, GLUCOSE-D and GLUCOSE, the
 proposed mark of the plaintiff was ―incapable of distinguishing‖
 within the meaning of Section 9(1)(a) of the Trade Marks Act. In its
 response dated 22 October 1975, to the said objection, the plaintiff
 submitted thus: 26. The registrations granted to the plaintiff for its trademarks
 ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ were subject to the disclaimer that
 the plaintiff would not claim any right to exclusively user of the
 individual letter's ―C‖ and ―D‖ thereby. Additionally, the Registry of
 Trade Marks objected to the application for registration of the word
 mark ―GLUCON-D‖ in Class 32 on the ground that the mark was
 deceptively similar to the existing registered trademark ―Glucomax‖.
 Mr. Sibal points out that this letter of objection was waived by order
 dated 3 March 1978 passed by the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks
 expressing agreement with the plaintiff's contention that ―Gluco‖, in
 respect of a product containing glucose, was common to the trade. 27. Thus, submits Mr. Sibal, if ―Gluco‖ were to be treated as
 common to the trade and the plaintiff had already disclaimed its rights
 to exclusivity for the individual letters C and D, no case for alleging
 infringement could be said to survive. Mr. Sibal relies on para 14 of
 the written statement filed by the defendants, which reads thus: 15. In light of the aforesaid, it is humbly submitted that filing of
 the present suit by the Plaintiff, inter alia seeking to restrain the
 Defendants from using the words GLUCO, in relation to Glucose
 products, is contrary to the stand adopted by the Plaintiff before the
 Trade Marks Registry at the time of seeking statutory rights of a
 descriptive words, in which the plaintiffs predecessor-in-the
 interest admitted to the word GLUCO being common to the trade
 in respect of products containing Glucose. The plaintiff therefore
 is not entitled to plead to the contrary in the present proceedings. (Emphasis in original)

 Mr. Sibal submits that the stand adopted by the plaintiff before the
 Trade Marks Registry constitutes evidence on record, and the plaintiff Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 18 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 is estopped, in law, from adopting a contrary stand in the present
 proceedings. He relies, for this purpose, on (i) paras 31, 33, 34, 38, 40 to 42 of Vasundhara Jewellers
 Pvt Ltd v. Kirat Vinodbhai Jadvani20 , by a Division Bench of
 this Court, the SLP against which stands dismissed by the
 Supreme Court, (ii) paras 16 to 18 of S.K. Sachdeva v. Shri Educare Ltd21,
 also by a Division Bench of this Court, the SLP against which
 stands dismissed by the Supreme Court (with respect to this
 decision, Mr. Sibal submits that, in para 33 of the present plaint,
 the plaintiff has advanced a submission similar to that which
 was held by the Division Bench in that case, not to be available)
 and (iii) para 43 of the judgment, also of a Division Bench of this
 Court in Raman Kawatra v. K.E.I. Industries Ltd22 . For the proposition that the plaintiff could not claim exclusivity over
 ―GLUCO‖, Mr. Sibal cites the decision of a learned Single Judge of
 the High Court of Madras in Parle Products Ltd v. Bakemans
 Industries Ltd23 and para 16 of the judgment of the Supreme Court in
 Corn Products. 28. In any event, submits Mr. Sibal, there can really be no question
 of any confusion between the plaintiff's and the defendants' marks, as
 the defendants' marks are ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-
 D ++‖. 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3370 21 2016 SCC OnLine Del 473 22 296 (2022) DLT 529 (DB) 23 1998 3 LW 294 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 19 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 29. In the alternative, contends Mr. Sibal, even if it were to be
 assumed that the plaintiff's marks are valid, the defendants stand
 protected from any finding of infringement by Sections 30(2)(a) and 35 of the Trade Marks Act. He submits that the mark ―Gluco-C ++‖
 merely denotes the presence of glucose, vitamin C, calcium and the
 tangy orange flavour, with the two ―+‖s meant to refer to the last two
 ingredients. Such a mark, he submits, merely describes the
 characteristics and content of the product on which it is affixed and
 cannot be regarded as infringing, in view of the law enunciated in
 paras 35 and 38 of Marico10. 30. On the impact of disclaimers, Mr. Sibal cites the decision of a
 Division Bench of this Court in Bawa Masala Co. v. Gulzari Lal
 Lajpat Rai24 . At the very least, submits Mr. Sibal, the plaintiff surely
 cannot claim the disclaimed part of its mark to be its dominant part.
 If, he reiterates, the disclaimed ―C‖ and ―D‖ were to be disregarded,
 the remaining part of the defendants' impugned marks, i.e. ―Gluco‖ is
 admittedly descriptive in nature. He relies, in this context, on paras 5
 and 6 of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Parakh Vanijya Pvt
 Ltd v. Baroma Agro Product25 31. Having disclaimed the letter suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖, Mr. Sibal
 submits that the plaintiff cannot include, in the asserted marks, the
 said suffixes, to allege infringement. He draws the attention of the
 Court para 33 of the plaint, which reads thus: However, it is clarified that whilst there are third-party is using the
 marks that comprise of the word GLUCO, the manner of
 presentation adopted by the first Defendant by using the suffix ―-
 D‖ and ―-C‖ to the mark GLUCO makes it virtually identical to the
 Plaintiff's mark GLUCON-D and GLUCON-C. The Plaintiff
 reserves its right to take action against third parties, including those
 mentioned above.‖

 The right that the plaintiff seeks to reserve for itself, in the concluding
 passage of the above extracted para 33 of the plaint, submits Mr.
 Sibal, is not available to the plaintiff for reservation, as the plaintiff
 has consciously and expressly disclaims exclusivity in respect of the ―-
 C‖ and ―-D‖ suffixes in its marks. 32. Mr. Sibal proceeds, thereafter, to address on the allegation of
 passing off. 33. Insofar as the rival word marks are concerned, Mr. Sibal
 submits that the initial ―Prolyte‖ part of the defendants marks
 sufficiently distinguish them from the marks of the plaintiff. 34. Without prejudice, Mr. Sibal submits that, in the case of a
 descriptive word mark, the onus is on the plaintiff alleging passing off Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 21 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 to prove acquisition of distinctiveness, by the asserted marks, by dint
 of use. That, he submits, is an aspect which is required to be relegated
 to trial, and on which the Court cannot conceivably return a finding at
 the Order XXXIX stage. He relies, for this purpose, on para 70 of the
 decision of this Bench in Phonepe Pvt Ltd v. Ezy Services26 and para-
 30 of the decision of a coordinate Single Bench of this Court in Red
 Bull AG v. Pepsico India Holdings Pvt Ltd27 , as well as the judgment
 of the Supreme Court in J.R. Kapoor v. Mirconix India28. 35. In any event, submits Mr. Sibal, as the defendant's name
 (―Cipla Healthcare‖) is prominently visible on the face of the pack of
 the impugned product, there is no chance of a customer purchasing the
 defendants' product believing it to be the plaintiffs. 36. No passing off, it is submitted, can be alleged by the plaintiff in
 respect of ―GLUCON-C‖ as the plaintiff has ceased manufacture and
 sale of the product in 1990, and there is no evidence of any residual
 goodwill vesting in the mark. Similarly, the mark ―Glucon-C
 ImmunoFizz‖ was registered, on proposed to be used basis, w.e.f. 19
 October 2020, and was discontinued in December 2020. In any event,
 all the marks asserted by the plaintiff are totally dissimilar to the
 defendants' ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖. 38. Insofar as the alleged similarity in trade dress is being cited as a
 basis to contend that the defendants are passing off their product as the
 plaintiff's, Mr. Sibal submits that, to sustain such an allegation, the 26 2021 (86) PTC 437 27 290 (2022) DLT 673 28 1994 Supp (3) SCC 215 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 22 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 plaintiff would have to establish the existence of goodwill and
 reputation in the asserted trade dress. He relies, for this purpose, on
 paras 10, 14 to 16 and 18 of Britannia Industries Ltd v. ITC Ltd29 ,
 rendered by a Division Bench of this Court. Far from there being any
 evidence of reputation or goodwill in the trade dress presently being
 used by the plaintiff, Mr. Sibal submits that there is no evidence even
 of commercial user of the said trade dress. The plaintiff has placed,
 on record, he points out, one solitary invoice. Further, the application
 dated 22 February 2023 (10 days prior to the filing of the present suit),
 filed by the plaintiff for registration of the GLUCON-D trade dress
 being presently used by it claims user of the trade dress since 9
 February 2018. No affidavit or supporting documents, evidencing
 said user have, however, been filed with the application, despite the
 mandate of Rule 2530 of the Trade Marks Rules, 2017. The sole
 invoice filed by the plaintiff does not reflect the present trade dress.
 There is, moreover, no submission forthcoming, from the plaintiff,
 that the present GLUCON-D trade dress has acquired goodwill or
 reputation. Mr. Sibal also took me through the documents of user
 filed with the present suit, which, too, he submits, do not evidence
 user of the present trade dress w.e.f. 2018. He submits that certain
 advertisements, in magazines, filed by the plaintiff at S. No. 30 of the
 documents filed with the plaint, do not reflect the asserted trade dress. Similarly, certain additional documents were filed by the plaintiff 29 240 (2017) DLT 156 (DB) 30 25. Statement of user in applications.-- (1) An application to register a trade mark shall, unless the trade mark is proposed to be used,
 contain a statement of the period during which, and the person by whom it has been used in respect
 of all the goods or services mentioned in the application.
 (2) In case, the use of the trade mark is claimed prior to the date of application, the applicant
 shall file an affidavit testifying to such use along with supporting documents. under an Index dated 17 March 2023, S. No. 14 of which is a Compact
 Disc containing advertisements for the plaintiff's products bearing the
 marks ―GLUCON-D‖ and ―GLUCON-C‖, but there is no embedded
 date in the CD, and the date has been superficially added by the
 plaintiff. User of 2018 cannot, therefore, be established even on the
 basis of these documents. At the very least, the actual date to which
 the documents pertaining would be a matter to be decided consequent
 on trial. The sole document which might be said to reflect the date of
 2018 is the following advertisement in the Ranchi edition of the
 Dainik Jagran of 1 April 2018: Under no circumstances can the Plaintiff people permitted
 by this Hon'ble Court that the use of the colour orange by
 the orange flavoured pack, is associated solely with it or
 that it acts as a source identify. It is humbly reiterated that
 all consumers associate the colour orange only with the
 flavour of the drink and no exclusivity or monopoly can be
 conferred on any one party, including but not limited to the
 Plaintiff herein, over the use of such colour which is merely
 descriptive of the product and nothing more. c) Similarly, use of the colour green to denote energy
 and/or charging/re-charging are standard industry practices
 and use of such colour by the Plaintiff is neither new nor
 original. Illustrative images of other products, across
 industries, which used the colour green in order to convey
 to its customer that the product increases energy, are as
 under: 41. Responding to Mr. Lall's submission that the invoice dated 31
 May 2022, filed by the defendants, is for sale of the ―Prolyte Glucose-
 C Tangy Orange‖ and ―Prolyte Glucose-D Regular‖ products of the 31 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1492 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 33 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 defendants, Mr. Sibal submits that the reference to ―Glucose-C‖ and
 ―Glucose-D‖ in the invoice is clearly a typographical error, and that
 the invoice in fact covered ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖. 42. ―Prolyte‖, submits Mr. Sibal, has been the defendants'
 trademark adopted in 1958. Even prior to the impugned product,
 ―Prolyte‖ figured, in a smaller font, in the defendants, ORS ―Oral
 Rehydration Solution‖ product. He points out that the invoices since
 31 May 2022 have been placed on record with his written statement. 43. The judgments on which Mr. Lall relies, submits Mr. Sibal, are
 all cases in which the word marks in issue were not descriptive. They
 cannot, therefore, assist in resolution of the dispute at hand. 44. Predicated on these submissions, Mr. Sibal submits that no case,
 for grant of any relief to the plaintiff, can be said to have been made
 out. Submissions of Mr. Lall in rejoinder 45. Mr. Lall commenced his submissions, in rejoinder, with an
 emphatic denial of Mr. Sibal's principal contention that the marks
 ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ were descriptive. He submits that,
 while it is correct that the marks were derived from ―Glucose‖ and
 ―Vitamin C‖/‖ Vitamin D‖, they were not descriptive, though they
 could, perhaps, be regarded as suggestive. The pleadings of both
 sides, he submits, indicate that the rival marks are not being used,
 either by the plaintiff or by the defendants, as descriptors. In the
 written statement, it is specifically averred by the defendants that they Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 34 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 are using ―Prolyte Gluco-D‖ as a mark. The use of derivative
 combinations as names, he submits, is not unknown as, for example,
 ―Dropovit‖ or ―Whole Foods‖. Suggestive word marks, he submits,
 are registerable under the Trade Marks Act . 46. Reiterating that it is an admitted position, in the written
 statement of the defendants, that ―Prolyte Gluco-D‖ is used, by them,
 not as a descriptor, but as a mark, Mr. Lall submits, candidly, that, if
 the Court were to adopt the view that ―Gluco-D‖ is a descriptor, his
 client has no case. The defendants, however, do not contend that their
 mark is ―Prolyte‖ and that ―Gluco-D‖ is only a descriptor. It is only
 during arguments that the defendants are seeking to urge, by
 dissecting the ―Gluco-D‖ part of their mark, that it is descriptive,
 contending that ―Gluco‖ represents ―Glucose‖ and ―D‖ represents
 ―Vitamin D‖. Such dissection is completely illogical, submits Mr.
 Lall, as the customer at the time of purchase of the product of the
 defendants, does not dissect its name and treat the product as a
 combination of glucose and vitamin D. 47. In any event, submits Mr. Lall, Section 32 of the Trade Marks
 Act provides a complete defence to the plaintiff against any attempt,
 by the defendants, to see to invalidate the plaintiff's marks. The
 marks asserted by the plaintiff, he points out, had been in use for over
 three decades, and have never been challenged till the filing of the
 written statement in the present case by the defendants. The marks
 asserted in the plaint have, to their credit, therefore, over 30 years of
 uninterrupted and extensive use. In the face of Section 32 , therefore, Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 35 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 the Court, in order to hold that the plaintiff's mark was invalid - as the
 defendants would seek to contend - would have to return a finding
 that the plaintiff's marks were lacking in distinctiveness. Mr. Lall
 cites, in this context, para 32 to 34 of Marico10. 48. Relying, for the purpose, on the judgment of the Supreme Court
 in Kaviraj Pt Durga Dutt Sharma4, Mr. Lall submits that the prefix
 ―Prolyte‖ is immaterial while assessing the existence, or non-
 existence, of infringement. Inasmuch as ―Gluco-D‖ and ―Gluco-C‖
 are deceptively similar to ―GLUCON-D‖ and ―GLUCON-C‖, Mr. Lall
 submits that infringement stands, ipso facto, committed. The
 defendants cannot seek to avail the benefit of Section 30(2)(a) , as it is
 not their pleaded case that ―Gluco-D‖ is used as a descriptor. Rather,
 the defendants' specific case is that they use ―Prolyte Gluco-D‖ as a
 mark, thereby directly attracting the law enunciated in Kaviraj Pt
 Durga Dutt Sharma4. Marico10 would not, therefore, come to the aid
 of the defendants as , in that case , ―LOW ABSORB‖ was found to
 have been used, not as a trade mark, but as a descriptor of the product
 involving low absorb technology. That apart, Mr. Lall submits that, in
 view of the averments contained in para-13 of the reply filed by them
 to the present application, in which the defendants claim trademark
 rights in ―Gluco‖, they are estopped from contending that ―Gluco‖ is
 descriptive. 49. Section 124 of the Trade Marks Act, Mr. Lall submits, would
 not apply, as no application under the said provision has been made by
 the defendants. Nor, in their pleadings, have the defendants sought to Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 36 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 take shelter behind Section 30(2) or Section 35 of the Trade Marks
 Act, obviously for the reason that it is not their pleaded case that
 ―Gluco-D‖ is a descriptor. The case set up by the defendants in the
 pleadings is, rather, that ―Gluco-D‖ is only a part of the overall mark
 ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖. Mr. Lall contradistinguishes the present case
 from Marico10 on the basis of para 36 to 37 of the said decision . 50. In the context of these submissions, Mr. Lall has emphasised the
 following parts of para 7, 8 and 9 of the reply filed by the defendants
 to the present application: ***** d) The use of ‗D' and ‗C' on the product packs
 indicates presence of Vitamin D and Vitamin C
 respectively, as is also amply evident from the description
 on the product packs, as identified in the aforesaid images.‖

 Thus, submits Mr. Lall, the defendants are seeking to claim that the
 ―Gluco‖ part of ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ alone is a descriptor. Such a
 contention is not available under Section 30(2)(b) , as the provision
 cannot be invoked by splitting the mark. Distinguishing the situation
 which obtained in Marico10, Mr. Lall points out that , in that case , the
 phrase with which the Court was concerned was ―WITH LOW
 ABSORB TECHNOLOGY‖. He cites, in this context, paras 37, 38
 and 40 of the said decision . In conjunction, Mr. Lall also cites paras 1,
 4, 20, 21, 26 and 27 of Red Bull AG v. Pepsico India Holdings Pvt
 Ltd27 . 51. Citing, for the purpose, paras 23, 24, 27, 28, 33, 55, 40, 45, 48
 and 49 of the judgment of this Court in Phonepe26, Mr. Lall
 emphasises that the rival marks are to be considered as wholes,
 without breaking them up into parts. When considered as whole
 marks, he submits that the disclaimed ―-D‖ and ―-C‖ suffixes of the
 rival marks have also to be taken into account. Seen thus, Mr. Lall
 submits that the plaintiff's and defendants' marks are clearly
 deceptively similar. He relies, for this purpose, on paras 17 to 20 of
 Corn Products3. 52. Mr. Lall further submits that, having taken a stand that ―Prolyte
 Gluco-D ++‖ is their trademark, the defendants cannot now claim that
 part of the mark as a descriptor. He relies, for this purpose, on paras
 16, 24 and 25 of PEPS Industries Pvt Ltd v. Kurlon Ltd32 and paras
 37 and 38 of Vasundhara Jewellers20, both rendered by the same
 Division Bench of this Court. 53. Responding to the submission of Mr. Sibal that the plaintiff
 was, vis-à-vis the stand taken before the Trade Marks Registry while
 applying for registration of its ―GLUCON-D‖ trademark, approbating
 and reprobating, Mr. Lall submits that, even at that stage, the plaintiff
 had claimed distinctiveness in respect of the mark which it was
 seeking to register, i.e. GLUCON-D. The further statement that
 ―GLUCON-D‖ was not similar to the marks cited by the Registry as
 pre-existing registered marks, he further submits, cannot disentitle the 32 295 (2022) DLT 527 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 39 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 plaintiff from claiming infringement of its registered trademarks by
 the use, by the defendants, of ―Gluco-D‖. The reliance, by Mr. Sibal,
 on Raman Kawatra22, he further submits, is misplaced, as the
 principle enunciated in para 43 of the said decision is that a party,
 having taken a particular stand before the Registry, to answer the Section 11 objection predicated on the defendant's trademark cannot,
 in infringement proceedings, take a contrasting stand, vis-à-vis the
 same trademark of the defendants. Inasmuch as the impugned marks
 of the defendants were never cited as rival marks when the plaintiff
 applied for registration of ―GLUCON-D‖ or ―GLUCON-C‖, Mr. Lall
 submits that the Raman Kawatra22 principle would not apply. 54. Mr. Lall finally submits that the reliance, by Mr. Sibal, on the
 disclaimer, by the plaintiff, from claiming exclusivity in respect of the
 letter's ―C‖ and ―D‖, while obtaining registration of ―GLUCON-C‖
 and ―GLUCON-D‖, is misplaced, as, despite the disclaimer,
 comparison has to be made of the marks as whole marks, including the
 display portion. Bawa Masala Co.24, on which Mr. Sibal placed
 reliance, he points out, itself says so, in para 24. Analysis 55. A trek through the statute

 55.1 In my opinion, it would be advantageous to address the issues
 raised by both sides after having, before one, a kaleidoscopic view of
 the legal position as it emerges from the relevant provisions of the
 statute and judicial authorities. 55.2 Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act sets out absolute grounds on
 which registration of a trade mark can be refused. If the grounds
 apply, there is a complete proscription to registration, as is apparent
 from the use of the words ―shall not‖ in each of the sub-sections of Section 9 . Of these, we are concerned with Section 9(1)(a) and (b). 55.3 Section 9(1)(a) disentitles a mark which is devoid of any
 distinctive character, i.e., which is not capable of distinguishing goods
 or services of one person from those of another, from registration. To
 the extent it is relevant, Section 9(1)(b) disentitles a mark which may
 serve in trade to designate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose
 or other characteristics of the goods or service from registration. Mr.
 Sibal's contention is that ―GLUCON-D‖ and ―GLUCON-C‖, are
 marks which merely describe the constituents of the product contained
 in the package on which they are affixed by the plaintiff i.e., Glucose
 and Vitamin-C/Vitamin-D. He contends that the plaintiff has candidly
 acknowledged this position in its response dated 27 October 1975 to
 the objection raised by the Registry against the application submitted
 by the plaintiff for registration of the mark ―GLUCON-D‖. 55.4 The proviso to Section 9(1) carves out an exception from the
 rigour of the sub-section. It permits registration of a mark which may
 otherwise infract any of the clauses of Section 9(1) if, before the date
 of application for registration, the mark has acquired a distinctive
 character as a result of the use made of it or is a well-known trade
 mark. 55.5 In Marico10, the Division Bench of this Court held that the
 terminus ad quem fixed by the proviso to Section 9(1) , of the date of
 application for registration, stands statutorily extended by Section
 31(2) to the date of registration of the mark. In other words, if the
 mark, for which an application has been submitted for registration, has
 acquired distinctiveness or is recognised as a well-known trade mark
 on or before the date when the mark was registered, it would be
 entitled to registration, even if it otherwise infracted any of the clauses
 of Section 9(1) . 55.6 Sections 28 and 29 are cognate provisions. Section 28 enumerates the rights conferred by registration of a trade mark and Section 29 deals with infringement of a registered trade mark. 55.7 Of the various sub-sections of Section 28 , we are concerned
 only with Section 28(1) . Section 28(1) starts with the words ―subject
 to the other provisions of this Act, the registration of a trade mark
 shall, if valid...‖. Mr. Sibal has stressed the use of the word ―if valid‖
 in Section 28(1) to submit that rights which enure by virtue of
 registration of a trade mark are subject to the registration being valid.
 In other words, it is only where the validity of the registration is
 established that a plaintiff can seek remedies premised on the
 registration - which would include a remedy against infringement of
 the mark. In other words, Mr. Sibal's contention is that, even at the
 stage of arriving at a prima facie view regarding infringement, the
 court is required to satisfy itself that the mark asserted in the suit is Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 42 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 valid and the defendants can always raise a plea of invalidity of the
 mark as a defence against infringement. 55.8 This aspect of the matter has also been considerably clarified by
 the Division Bench in Marico10. Even while accepting the proposition
 that the use of the words ―if valid‖ in Section 28(1) , results in the
 enuring, to the holder of a registered trade mark, of the rights
 recognised by Section 28(1) , only if the registration is valid, the
 Division Bench has held that the purpose of inserting the words ―if
 valid‖ in Section 28(1) is to protect the right of a person who desires
 to institute a challenge against the validity of the registered trade mark
 under Section 57 or Section 124 . 55.9 To that extent, therefore, Mr. Sibal's submission that validity of
 the registered trade mark can be contested while defending an
 application for interlocutory injunction against infringement of the
 mark merits acceptance. At the same time, the Division Bench has
 clarified, in Marico10, that, where a written statement has been filed by
 way of response to a suit, Section 124(2) makes it incumbent on the
 defendant to raise a challenge to the validity of registered trade mark
 in the trade mark of the plaintiff, in the written statement. If no such
 challenge is raised, the defendant forfeits his right to seek the benefit
 of the words ―if valid‖ in Section 28 or, consequently, the benefit of Section 124 of the Trade Marks Act. In a situation in which the
 application for interim injunction is being considered by the court
 before a written statement is filed, however, the court would have to
 satisfy itself that the registration of the trade mark asserted in the suit Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 43 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 is valid, before extending, to the proprietor of the registration, the
 rights conferred thereby. 55.10 At the same time, this provision has to be read in conjunction
 with Section 31(1) of the Trade Marks Act. Section 31(1) specifically
 envisages the very fact of registration of a trade mark as being prima
 facie evidence of its validity. The use of the words ―prima facie
 evidence of the validity thereof‖, as employed in Section 31(1) , is of
 stellar significance. It amounts to a statutory discharge of the initial
 onus which would otherwise rests with the plaintiff to prove prima
 facie validity of the registered trade mark asserted in the plaint. By
 operation of Section 31(1) , the very fact of registration of the mark
 amounts to prima facie evidence of the validity of the mark. In other
 words, the initial onus on the plaintiff, to establish prima facie validity
 of the mark, would stand discharged and, therefore, it would be for the
 defendant, who raises a challenge to the validity of the mark as one of
 the grounds to defend the charge of infringement, to initially satisfy
 the court that the asserted trade mark is not valid. 55.11 Section 28(1) confers, on the registered proprietor of a trade
 mark, the benefit of exclusivity of the mark in relation to the goods
 and services in respect of which it is registered and the right to protect
 the mark against infringement. This latter right dovetails into Section
 29 , which sets out the various circumstances in which one mark could
 be said to be infringed by another. 55.12 Of the various sub-sections of Section 29 , we are concerned, in
 the present case, only with Section 29(2)(b) , which envisages
 infringement of a registered trade mark by a person who uses a mark
 which is similar to the registered trade mark, for goods or services
 which are identical or similar to the goods or services covered by the
 registered trade mark, in such a manner as is likely to cause confusion
 on the part of the public or cause the public to believe that his mark
 has an association with the earlier registered trade mark. 55.13 Three conditions are, therefore, cumulatively required to be
 satisfied for Section 29(2)(b) to apply. They are (i) similarity between the mark of the defendant and the
 mark of the plaintiff, (ii) identity or similarity of the goods or services of the
 defendant and the goods or services covered by the registered
 trade mark of the plaintiff and (iii) resultant likelihood or confusion on the part of the public,
 or a belief, in the mind of the public, of an association between
 the marks of the defendant and the plaintiff. 55.14 Section 30 sets out the limitations on the effect of a registered
 trade mark, and sub-section (2) thereof is a complete defence to any
 charge of infringement. In other words, even if a case falls within Section 29 , and the ingredients of Section 29 stand satisfied, no charge
 of infringement would lie against the defendant if the defendant can
 pigeonhole his case into one of the clausal compartments of Section
 30 (2) . 55.15 Of the various clauses of Section 30(2) , we are concerned only
 with clause (a). Section 30(2)(a) negatives any allegation of
 infringement where the use of the impugned mark by the defendant
 indicates, inter alia, the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose or
 other characteristics of the goods or services of the defendant. In
 other words, if the mark impugned in the suit is used by the defendants
 in a descriptive manner, i.e. as indicating, inter alia, the kind, quality,
 quantity, intended purpose or other characteristics of the goods or
 services of the defendant, then no allegation of infringement can lie on
 the basis of the use of the said mark by the defendant. The
 applicability of Section 29 is completely ruled out in such a case. 55.16 It is important, at this juncture, to understand the interplay
 between Section 9(1)(b) and Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Marks Act,
 especially as the two clauses are identically worded. 55.17 At the cost of repetition, Section 9(1)(b) disentitles a descriptive
 mark to registration, unless the mark is entitled to the benefit of the
 proviso to Section 9(1) . Section 9(1) , therefore, applies to the mark of
 the plaintiff. 55.18 As against this, Section 30(2) applies to the mark of the
 defendant. Even if the plaintiff's mark has crossed the threshold of Section 9(1) , and the defendant's mark satisfies one or more of the
 clauses of Section 29 as would render it infringing of the mark of the
 plaintiff, nonetheless, Section 30(2) saves the impugned mark of the
 defendant from any action on the ground of infringement if the
 defendant uses the mark in a descriptive fashion. 55.19 Mr. Sibal has invoked both these provisions. He has contended
 that the marks asserted in the suit, i.e. GLUCON-C and GLUCON-D
 are ineligible for registration under Section 9(1)(a) and (b), as they are
 merely descriptive and not-distinctive in nature. Assuming without
 admitting that the marks GLUCON-C and GLUCON-D are valid, he
 nonetheless submits that the defendants' marks ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖
 and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ are entitled to the protection of Section
 30(2)(b) as the words ―Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Gluco-D ++‖ are merely
 descriptive of the contents of the defendants' products, with ―Gluco‖
 representing Glucose, ―C‖ representing Vitamin C and the two ―++s‖
 representing Calcium and the flavour of the concerned product. 55.20 Section 31(1) has already been dealt with. Section 31(2) proscribes the declaration of a registered trade mark as invalid on the
 ground that it was not registerable under Section 9 if it has become
 distinctive by the date of registration. As has already been noticed,
 Marico10 clarifies that Section 31(2) effectively extends the date by
 which a plaintiff is required to prove acquisition of distinctiveness
 from the date of application for registration [as envisaged by the
 proviso to Section 9(1) ] to the date when registration is granted to the
 mark. 55.21 If Section 30(2) is a shield available to the defendants against Section 29 , Section 32 is, equally, a shield available to the plaintiff
 against Section 9(1) . Section 32 provides that a mark which is
 registered in violation of Section 9(1) would, nonetheless, not be Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 47 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 declared invalid if, before commencement of legal proceedings
 challenging the validity of the registration, the mark has attained
 distinctiveness. 55.22 Mr. Sibal submits that Section 32 is merely a protection against
 declaration of invalidity of the plaintiff's mark, if the conditions of the
 Section are fulfilled. It does not bar the defendants from contesting
 the validity of the plaintiff's mark as a defence to infringement. Nor,
 he would submit, does it excuse the court from examining the validity
 of the plaintiff's mark, if a defence in that regard is taken by the
 defendant in its written statement. 56. A precedential peregrination

 56.1 Having thus dealt with the relevant provisions of the Trade
 Marks Act , one may examine the judicial precedents which have
 spoken on the issues at hand. There are many; however, the decisions
 cited at the Bar are, thanks to the erudition of learned Senior Counsel
 who argued the matter, more than sufficient to pigeonhole the
 propositions that apply. I proceed, therefore, to examine the said
 decisions, and attempt to cull out the principles that emerge. 56.2 Corn Products Refining Co3. 56.2.1 Shangrila Food Products Ltd. (―SFP‖, hereinafter) applied, on 5
 November 1949, for registration of the mark ―Gluvita‖ in respect of
 biscuits in class 30. Prior thereto, on 31 August 1942, the mark
 ―Glucovita‖ already stood registered in clause 30 in favour of Corn Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 48 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 Products Refining Company (―CPR‖, hereinafter) in respect of
 Dextrose, which was a combination of glucose and vitamins, as an
 ingredient in food. CPR, therefore, opposed SFP's application for the
 mark ―Gluvita‖. The opposition was predicated on Section 8(a) 33 and 10(1) 34 of the Trade Marks Act 1940 (―the 1940 Act‖). Of these, the
 opposition predicated on Section 10(1) was not pressed before the
 Supreme Court. 56.2.2 Section 8(a) proscribed the registration of a mark which was
 deceptively similar to an existing mark and was, therefore, likely to
 cause confusion if it were registered. The Deputy Registrar of Trade
 Marks (the DR) disallowed the challenge of CPR predicated on Section 8(a) on the ground that the central syllable ―co‖, which was
 present in Glucovita and absent in Gluvita was sufficient to distinguish
 the two marks and to negative any possibility of confusion or
 deception. 56.2.3 Aggrieved thereby, CPR appealed to the High Court of
 Bombay. Desai, J., sitting singly, allowed the appeal, holding that the
 marks Glucovita and Gluvita were confusingly similar to each other
 and that the registration of the mark Glucovita would, therefore, result
 in likelihood of confusion and deception. SFP appealed, thereagainst, 33 8. Prohibition of registration of certain matter.--No trade mark nor part of a trade mark shall be
 registered which consists of, or contains, any scandalous design, or any matter the use of which would-- (a) by reason of its being likely to deceive or to cause confusion or otherwise, be disentitled
 to protection in a Court of justice; or (b) be likely to hurt the religious susceptibilities of any class of the citizens of India; or (c) be contrary to any law for the time being in force, or to morality. 10. Prohibition of registration of identical or similar trade mark.-- (1) Save as provided in sub-section (2), no trade mark shall be registered in respect of any
 goods or description of goods which is identical with a trade mark belonging to a different
 proprietor and already on the register in respect of the same goods or description of goods, or which Signature Not Verified so nearly resembles such trade mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 49 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 to a Division Bench, which reversed the decision of Desai, J., CPR,
 therefore, appealed to the Supreme Court. 56.2.4 One of the grounds on which the Division Bench of the High
 Court negatived the likelihood of confusion or deception if the marks
 Gluvita were to proceed to registration, was that there was no evidence
 that the mark Glucovita, of CPR, had acquired a reputation amongst
 the public. In the opinion of the Division Bench of the High Court, for
 confusion or deception to arise, the mark of the plaintiff was required
 to have a reputation amongst the public. Absent such reputation, there
 could be no question of confusion or deception. 56.2.5 The Supreme Court disapproved of this view, observing that (i)
 there was no denial, in the counter statement filed by SFP to the
 assertion, in the plaint of CPR, that the mark ―Gluvita‖ had acquired a
 reputation amongst the Indian public, (ii) there was ample evidence to
 show that CPR's goods under the mark ―Glucovita‖ were sold in very
 large quantities in retail packs which were intended for the public, (iii)
 CPR had spent considerable sums for advertisement of its product
 Glucovita in ordinary popular journals, which also indicated that it had
 considerable sale among the general public, (iv) an affidavit of K.M.
 Jamal, filed by SFP, specifically stated that a number of customers
 came to buy both the products Glucovita and Gluvita and (v) SFP had,
 therefore, succeeded in establishing that the mark Glucovita had
 acquired a reputation among the buying public. In this context, the
 Supreme Court also clarified that the reputation that was required to
 be acquired was of the mark of the plaintiff and not of the plaintiff Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 50 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 itself. A mark, it was observed, could very well command a reputation
 amongst the general public, who might be completely unaware of the
 identity of the owner or proprietor of the mark. 56.2.6 The Supreme Court also disapproved of the observation of the
 DR, that there were a large number of marks in the register of Trade
 Mark which contained the prefix or suffix ―Gluco‖ or ―Vita‖. The
 Supreme Court held that the ―presence of a mark in a register does not
 prove its user at all‖, as ―it is possible that the mark may have been
 registered but not used‖. As such, inference as to user of a mark could
 not be derived from the presence of the mark on the register. 56.2.7 Of greatest significance, in the decision in Corn Products3, are
 the following paragraphs: case (In re : an application by Ladislas Jellinek)37. The goods
 there concerned were shoes and shoe polishes. It was observed that
 shoe polishes being used for shoes, there was trade connection
 between them and that this might lead to confusion or deception
 though the goods were different. The application for registration
 was however refused under that section of the English Act which
 corresponds to Section 8 of our Act on the ground that the
 opponents, the manufacturers of shoes, had not established a
 reputation for their trademark among the public. 21. It is true that in both the abovementioned cases the two
 competing trade marks were absolutely identical which is not the
 case here. But that in our opinion makes no difference. The
 absolute identity of the two competing marks or their close
 resemblance is only one of the tests for determining the question of
 likelihood of deception or confusion. Trade connection between
 different goods is another such test. Ex hypothesi, this latter test 36 58 RPC 91 37 63 RPC 59 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 52 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 applies only when the goods are different. These tests are
 independent tests. There is no reason why the test of trade
 connection between different goods should not apply where the
 competing marks closely resemble each other just as much as it
 applies, as held in the ―Black Magic‖ and ―Panda‖ cases, where the
 competing marks were identical. Whether by applying these tests
 in a particular case the conclusion that there is likelihood of
 deception or confusion should be arrived at would depend on all
 the facts of the case.‖

 56.2.8 The following principles emerge: 56.2.9 Premised on the above reasoning, the Supreme Court reversed
 the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay and
 affirmed and upheld the decision of Desai, J. 56.3 Kaviraj Pt Durga Dutt Sharma4

 56.3.1 The mark ―Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories‖ was
 registered in favour of the respondent Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories (NPL), under the Trade Marks Act, 1940 (―the 1940
 Act‖). Kaviraj Pt Durga Dutt Sharma (―Kaviraj‖) applied for
 registration of the trademark ―Navaratna Kalpa‖, in respect of
 Ayurvedic medicinal preparations. NPL opposed the application, as a
 result of which the application was refused. 56.3.2 NPL also filed Original Suit (OS) 233/1951 before the learned
 District Judge, Anjikaimal, for permanent injunction restraining Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 54 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 Kaviraj from using the mark ―Navaratna‖, either by itself or in
 combination with any other word. NPL claimed monopoly over the
 mark ―Navaratna‖, by virtue of being the registered proprietor of the
 trade Marks ―Navaratna‖ and ―Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories‖. Kaviraj's mark ―Navaratna Kalpa‖ and ―Navaratna
 Pharmacy‖, it was claimed, infringed the said trademarks of NPL.
 Additionally, it was alleged that Kaviraj was passing off its
 preparations as those of NPL, by use of the marks ―Navaratna Kalpa‖
 and ―Navaratna Pharmacy‖. 56.3.3 The learned District Judge, adjudicating OS 233/1951, rejected
 the claim of passing off and also held that NPL could not claim
 exclusivity over the word ―Navaratna‖, as it was a common term in
 Ayurvedic phraseology. However, the right of NPL to claim
 exclusivity over the registered trade mark ―Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories‖ was confirmed. Consequently, an injunction was
 granted against Kaviraj, to the extent of use of the mark ―Navaratna
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories‖. Kaviraj appealed, thereagainst, to the
 Division Bench of the High Court. 56.3.4 Kaviraj also filed, in the interregnum, Original Petition (OP)
 19/1952, praying for a removal, from the Register of Trade Marks, of
 the mark ―Navaratna‖, either used by itself or as part of any other
 trade mark belonging to NPL. 56.3.5 By a common judgment, the Division Bench of the High Court
 upheld, in toto, the decree of the learned District Judge in OS
 233/1951 and disposed of OP 19/1952 in the same terms. 56.3.6 Kaviraj appealed, against the said decision, to the Supreme
 Court. 56.3.7 The Supreme Court first examined the aspect of entitlement of
 the trademark ―Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories‖ to
 registration, as a preliminary ground urged by Kaviraj was that the
 mark itself was not entitled to registration, being descriptive in nature.
 It may not, however, be of much use to refer to the findings of the
 Supreme Court in that regard, as the question was examined in the
 light of Section 6 of the 1940 Act, which is completely different from Section 6 of the present Trade Marks Act , and set out, in positive
 terms, the ingredients which were required to be present for a mark to
 be registerable as a trademark. In order, however, not to leave the
 recital incomplete, it may be noted that Kaviraj's stand was that the
 mark ―Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories‖ did not contain any of
 the essential particulars which would entitle it to registration under Section 6(1) 38 of the 1940 Act. The Supreme Court, however, negated 38 6.(1) A trade mark shall not be registered unless it contains or consists of at least one of the following
 essential particulars namely:- 56.3.8 Of greater significance are the findings of the Supreme Court on
 the issue of deceptive similarity between the marks of Kaviraj and
 NPA. The issue was examined in the context of Section 2139 of the
 1940 Act which, though otherwise significantly different in form and
 structure to Section 28 of the present Trade Marks Act , may be
 regarded, for our purposes, to be applicable, as we are concerned
 essentially with the concept of ―deceptive similarity‖, which remains
 unchanged in the present Trade Marks Act . 56.3.9 The Supreme Court held, at the outset, that there could not be
 ―much doubt‖ ―that the words ‗Navaratna Pharmacy' and ‗Navaratna
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories' are similar in the sense spoken of by Section 21 ‖. More important is the manner in which the Supreme
 Court addressed an argument, advanced before it by Kaviraj, that there
 were sufficient dissimilar features, in the manner in which the

 of the trade mark is or may be connected in the course of trade from goods in the case of which no such
 connection subsists, either generally or, where the trade mark is proposed to be registered subject to
 limitations, in relation to use within the extent of the registration. 21. Right conferred by registration. - Subject to the provisions of sections 22 , 25 and 26 , the
 registration of a person in the register as proprietor of a trademark in respect of any goods shall, if valid, give
 to that person the exclusive right to the use of the trademark in relation to those goods act, without prejudice
 to the generality of the foregoing provision, that right shall be deemed to be infringed by any person who, not
 being the proprietor of the trademark or a registered user thereof using by way of the permitted use, uses a
 mark identical with or or so nearly resembling it is to be likely to deceive or cause confusion, in the course of
 trade, in relation to any goods in respect of which it is registered, and in such manner as to render the use of
 the mark likely to be taken either - user to use the trademark or to goods which which such a person as aforesaid is connected in the Signature Not Verified course of trade. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 57 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 products of Kaviraj and NPL were packed and presented, to repel any
 possibility of confusion. Paras 28 and 29 of the report, which dealt
 with this argument, read thus: Where the two marks are identical no further questions arise; for
 then the infringement is made out. When the two marks are not
 identical, the plaintiff would have to establish that the mark used by
 the defendant so nearly resembles the plaintiff's registered trade
 mark as is likely to deceive or cause confusion and in relation to
 goods in respect of which it is registered (Vide Section 21 ). A point
 has sometimes been raised as to whether the words ―or cause
 confusion‖ introduce any element which is not already covered by
 the words ―likely to deceive‖ and it has sometimes been answered
 by saying that it is merely an extension of the earlier test and does
 not add very materially to the concept indicated by the earlier
 words ―likely to deceive‖. But this apart, as the question arises in
 an action for infringement the onus would be on the plaintiff to
 establish that the trade mark used by the defendant in the course of
 trade in the goods in respect of which his mark is registered, is
 deceptively similar. This has necessarily to be ascertained by a
 comparison of the two marks -- the degree of resemblance which is
 necessary to exist to cause deception not being capable of definition
 by laying down objective standards. The persons who would be
 deceived are, of course, the purchasers of the goods and it is the
 likelihood of their being deceived that is the subject of
 consideration. The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the
 basic idea represented by the plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the
 comparison is for determining whether the essential features of the
 plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that used by the defendant.
 The identification of the essential features of the mark is in essence
 a question of fact and depends on the judgment of the Court based
 on the evidence led before it as regards the usage of the trade. It
 should, however, be borne in mind that the object of the enquiry in Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 59 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 ultimate analysis is whether the mark used by the defendant as a
 whole is deceptively similar to that of the registered mark of the
 plaintiff.‖

 56.3.10 Another contention urged by Kaviraj was that ―Navaratna‖
 was descriptive, and an expression in common use in Ayurveda and
 that, if one were to disregard, from the rival marks, ―Navaratna‖, the
 remaining part of the two marks could not be held to be deceptively
 similar. The Supreme Court negatived the submission, holding that
 the entirety of the rival marks were required to be compared. The
 exact words used by the Supreme Court, as they figure in para 30 of
 the judgment, are: The use, by the defendant, of the trademark of the plaintiff, or
 of a colourable imitation of the said mark, is not essential to
 constitute passing off, but is the sine qua non for infringement
 to be said to exist. (ii) In an action for infringement, where the similarity
 between the plaintiff's and the defendants' marks are so close
 that the Court reaches the conclusion that there is an imitation,
 the plaintiff's rights stand ipso facto violated. In other words, if
 the essential features of the plaintiff's trademark had been
 adopted by the defendant, marked differences in the packing
 and other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in
 which the goods are offered, even if they were to indicate a
 trade origin different from that of the registered proprietor of Signature Not Verified the plaintiff's mark, would be immaterial. Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 61 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 (iii) The question of deceptive similarity, for the purposes of
 infringement, has to be examined by a comparison of the marks.
 The degree of resemblance necessary for possibility of
 deception to exist cannot be definitively prescribed by objective
 standards. (iv) The resemblance may be phonetic, visual, or in the idea
 conveyed by the mark. (v) What has to be examined is whether the essential features
 of the plaintiff's trademark are to be found in the defendants'
 trademark. Identification of the essential features is a question
 of fact, to be decided by the Court. In any event, the marks
 have to be compared as a whole. (vi) In comparing the marks as a whole, parts of the marks
 which are common have also to be included in the comparison. 56.4 Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta5

 56.4.1 Satya Deo Gupta (―Gupta‖, hereinafter) applied for registration
 of a biochemical medicinal preparation commonly known as
 ―Lakshmandhara‖ in class 5 on 19 July 1950, claiming user since
 1923. The application was opposed by Amritdhara Pharmacy (―AP‖,
 hereinafter), on the ground that ―Amritdhara‖ already stood registered
 in favour of AP for its medicinal preparation w.e.f. 1901. Gupta Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 62 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 denied the allegation, stating that there was no likelihood of confusion
 amongst the public, between the composite words ―Lakshmandhara‖
 and ―Amritdhara‖. Besides the fact that the names were different,
 Gupta contended that the phials, label and packaging of
 ―Lakshmandhara‖ were completely different from those of
 ―Amritdhara‖ in appearance and otherwise. 56.4.2 Deciding the opposition, the Registrar of Trade Marks, vide his
 order, allowed registration of Gupta's mark ―Lakshmandhara‖ only for
 sale in Uttar Pradesh. This decision was challenged, before the High
 Court of Allahabad, both by Gupta as well as by AP, with Gupta
 contending that he should have been allowed the right to use the mark
 ―Lakshmandhara‖ throughout the territory of India and AP
 contending, per contra, that there should have been an absolute
 prohibition against registration of the mark ―Lakshmandhara‖. 56.4.3 The High Court allowed the challenge of Gupta and rejected the
 challenge of AP, holding that there was no possibility of an Indian
 confusing the ideas conveyed by the words ―Amritdhara‖ and
 ―Lakshmandhara‖, inasmuch as ―Amrit‖, ―Dhara‖ and ―Lakshman‖
 were all commonly used Hindi words, with ―Amritdhara‖ meaning
 ―current of nectar‖ or ―flow of nectar‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖ being
 ―current or flow of Lakshman‖. Further, held the High Court, words of
 common usage such as ―Amrit‖ and ―Dhara‖ could not be permitted to
 be monopolized by anyone. No reason for rejecting the request for
 registration of the mark ―Lakshmandhara‖, therefore, existed, in the
 opinion of the High Court. 56.4.4 The matter was examined by the Supreme Court in the context
 of Sections 8 and 10(1) and (2) of the 1940 Act. 56.4.5 The Supreme Court proceeded to decide the matter thus: For deceptive resemblance two important questions are: (1) who
 are the persons whom the resemblance must be likely to deceive or
 confuse, and (2) what rules of comparison are to be adopted in
 judging whether such resemblance exists. As to confusion, it is 40 (1906) 23 RPC 774 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 64 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 perhaps an appropriate description of the state of mind of a
 customer who, on seeing a mark thinks that it differs from the mark
 on goods which he has previously bought, but is doubtful whether
 that impression is not due to imperfect recollection. (See Kerly on
 Trade Marks, 8th Edition, p. 400.) 7. Let us apply these tests to the facts of the case under our
 consideration. It is not disputed before us that the two names
 "Amritdhara" and "Lakshman-dhara" are in use in respect of the
 same description of goods, namely a medicinal preparation for the
 alleviation of various ailments. Such medicinal preparation will be
 purchased mostly by people who instead of going to a doctor wish
 to purchase a medicine for the quick alleviation of their suffering,
 both villagers and townsfolk, literate as well as illiterate. As we
 said in Corn Products Refining Co.3 the question has to be
 approached from the point of view of a man of average intelligence
 and imperfect recollection. To such a man the overall structural
 and phonetic similarity-of the two names ―Amritdhara‖ and
 ―Lakshmandhara‖ is, in our opinion, likely to deceive or cause
 confusion. We must consider the overall similarity of the two
 composite words ―Amritdhara‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖. We do not
 think that the learned Judges of the High Court were right in saying
 that no Indian would mistake one for the other. An unwary
 purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection would
 not, as the High Court supposed, split the name into its component
 parts and consider the etymological meaning thereof or even
 consider the meaning of the composite words as "current of
 nectar" or "current of Lakshman". He would go more by the
 overall structural and phonetic similarity and the nature of the
 medicine he has previously purchased, or has been told about, or
 about which has otherwise learnt and which he wants to purchase.
 Where the trade relates to goods largely sold to illiterate or badly
 educated persons, it is no answer to say that a person educated in
 the Hindi language would go by the etymological or ideological
 meaning and see the difference between "current of nectar" and
 "current of Lakshman". "Current of Lakshman" in a literal sense
 has no meaning; to give it meaning one must further make the
 inference that the "current or stream" is as pure and strong as
 Lakshman of the Ramayana. An ordinary Indian villager or
 townsman will perhaps know Lakshman, the story of the Ramayana
 being familiar to him; but we doubt if he would etymologise to the
 extent of seeing the so-called ideological difference between
 "Amritdhara" and "Lakshmandhara". He would go more by the
 similarity of the two names in the context of the widely known
 medicinal preparation which he wants for his ailments. 8. We agree that the use of the word "dhara" which literally
 means "current or stream" is not by itself decisive of the matter.
 What we have to consider here is the overall similarity of the
 composite words, having regard to the circumstance that the goods
 bearing the two names are medicinal preparations of the same
 description. We are aware that the admission of a mark is not to be
 refused, because unusually stupid people, "fools or idiots", may be
 deceived. A critical comparison of the two names may disclose
 some points of difference, but an unwary purchaser of average
 intelligence and imperfect recollection would be deceived by the
 overall similarity of the two names having regard to the nature of
 the medicine he is looking for with a somewhat vague recollection
 that he had purchased a similar medicine on a previous occasion
 with a similar name. The trade mark is the whole thing-the whole
 word has to be considered. In the case of the application to
 register "Erectiks" (opposed by the proprietors of the trade mark
 ―Erector‖) Farwell, J., said in William Bailey (Birmingham) Ltd.
 Application41: 9. Nor do we think that the High Court was right in thinking
 that the appellant was claiming a monopoly in the common Hindi
 word "dhara". We do not think that that is quite the position here.
 What the appellant is claiming is its right under Section 21 of the
 Act, the exclusive right to the use of its trade mark, and to oppose
 the registration of a trade mark which so nearly resembles its
 trade mark that it is likely to deceive or cause confusion. 10. A large number of decisions relating to the use of
 composite words, such as Night Cap and Red Cap, Limit and
 Summit, Rito and Lito, Motrate and Filtrate etc. were cited in the
 High Court. Some more have been cited before us. Such decisions,
 examples of deceptive resemblance arising out of contrasted
 words, have been summarised at p. 429-34 in Kerly on Trade
 Marks. No useful purpose will be served by referring to them all.
 As we have said earlier, each case must be decided on its own
 facts. What degree of resemblance is necessary to deceive or cause
 confusion must in the nature of things be incapable of definition a
 priori. (1935) 52 RPC 137 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 66 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 11. As to the decisions in Annexure ‗A', it has been argued
 before us that they were not at all admissible by reason of Sections
 40 to 43 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. On behalf of the
 appellant it has been contended that they were admissible under Section 13 of the Evidence Act as showing the particular instances
 in which the appellant claimed its right under Section 21 of the
 Act. We consider it unnecessary to decide this question for the
 purposes of this case, because those decisions even if they are
 admissible under Section 13 do not throw any light on the question
 whether ―Amritdhara‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖ so nearly resemble
 each other as to cause deception or confusion. That is a question
 which we must determine as a case of first impression and
 irrespective of the earlier decisions. 12. On a consideration of all the circumstances, we have come
 to the conclusion that the overall similarity between the two names
 in respect of the same description of goods was likely to cause
 deception or confusion within the meaning of Section 10(I) of the
 Act and the Registrar was right in the view he expressed. The High
 Court was in error in taking a contrary view. 13. We now go to the second question, that of acquiescence.
 Here again we are in agreement with the Registrar of Trade Marks,
 who in a paragraph of his order quoted earlier in this judgment has
 summarised the facts and circumstances on which the plea of
 acquiescence was based. The matter has been put thus
 in Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. 32, 2nd Edition) p. 656-57,
 para 966. We do not think that there was any fraudulent user by the
 respondent of his trade name ―Lakshmandhara‖. The name
 was first used in 1923 in a small way in Uttar Pradesh.
 Later it was more extensively used and in the same journals
 the two trade marks were publicised. The finding of the
 Registrar is that the appellant and its agents were well
 aware of the advertisements of the respondent, and the
 appellant stood by and allowed the respondent to develop Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 67 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 his business till it grew from a small beginning in 1923 to
 an annual turnover of Rs 43,000 in 1949. These
 circumstances establish the plea of acquiescence and bring
 the case within sub-section (2) of Section 10 , and in view
 of the admission made on behalf of the respondent that his
 goods were sold mainly in Uttar Pradesh, the Registrar was
 right in imposing the limitation which he imposed.' ‖
 (Emphasis Supplied)

 56.4.6 From the decision in Amritdhara Pharmacy5, the following
 principles emerge: Precedents are of value only in respect of tests to be applied,
 and not on facts. (ii) The onus of proof, to establish that a mark, the
 registration of which was sought, was not likely to deceive or
 cause confusion, was on the applicant, seeking registration of
 the mark. (iii) A trade mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion by
 resemblance to an earlier registered mark if it is likely to do so
 in the course of its legitimate use in a market where the two
 marks are assumed to be in use by traders. (iv) The court is required to take into consideration all
 circumstances of the case before arriving at a conclusion
 regarding likelihood of deception or confusion. (v) In the case of word marks, the Pianotist40 test has to be
 applied. (vi) The two important questions to be addressed are (a) the persons likely to be deceived and (b) the rules of comparison to be applied. (vii) ―Confusion‖ refers to the state of mind of a customer
 who, on seeing the defendant's mark, thinks that it differs from
 the plaintiff's mark on goods which he has previously bought
 but is doubtful whether the impression is not due to imperfect
 recollection. (viii) The matter has to be examined from the point of view of
 a customer of average intelligence and imperfect recollection. (ix) Such a customer is not likely to split a composite mark
 into its constituent part or go by the etymological significance
 of the mark. (x) The suffix ―dhara‖ was not decisive of the issue whether
 the marks ―Amritdhara‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖ were, or were
 not, confusingly or deceptively similar. (xi) That said, if one were to compare ―Amritdhara‖ and
 ―Lakshmandhara‖, keeping in mind the fact that the customer of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection would not split
 the names, or go by the etymological connotation of the words Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 69 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 ―Amritdhara‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖, the marks were
 confusingly similar, as a customer who first purchased
 Amritdhara and, at a later point of time, purchased
 Lakshmandhara, was likely at the least to have a somewhat
 vague recollection that he had purchased a similar medicine on
 a previous occasion with a similar name. (xii) By so holding, the court was not granting AP a monopoly
 over the suffix ―dhara‖, as the two marks, seen as whole marks,
 were found to be confusingly or deceptively similar. 56.4.7 In view of the aforesaid, the Supreme Court allowed the
 appeal, of AP, set aside the order of the High Court and restored the
 decision of the Registrar of Trade Marks. 56.5 K.R. Krishna Chettiar6

 56.5.1 K.R. Krishna Chettiar (KRKC) applied, on 10 March 1958, for
 registration of a device mark in respect of snuff, which was opposed
 by Shri Ambal and Company (SAC), on the ground that a similar
 mark, in respect of snuff, already stood registered in its favour. The
 nature of two marks is apparent from the opening paragraphs 1 and 2
 of the judgment which may be reproduced thus: There is no visual resemblance between the two marks, but ocular
 comparison is not always the decisive test. The resemblance
 between the two marks must be considered with reference to the
 ear as well as the eye. There is a close affinity of sound between
 Ambal and Andal. 8. In the case of Coca-Cola Co. of Canada v. Pepsi Cola Co.
 of Canada Ltd.43, it was found that cola was in common use in
 Canada for naming the beverages. The distinguishing feature of the
 mark Coca Cola was coca and not cola. For the same reason the
 distinguishing feature of the mark Pepsi Cola was Pepsi and not
 cola. It was not likely that any one would confuse the word Pepsi
 with coca. In the present case the word "Sri" may be regarded as
 in common use. The distinguishing feature of the respondent's
 mark is Ambal while that of the appellant's mark is Andal. The two
 words are deceptively similar in sound. 9. The name Andal does not cease to be deceptively similar
 because it is used in conjunction with a pictorial device. The case
 of De Cordova & Ors. v. Vick Chemical Co.44 is instructive. From
 the appendix printed at page 270 of the same volume it appears that
 Vick Chemical Company were the proprietors of the registered 42 (1950) 57 RPC 209, 214 43 1942 59 RPC 127 44 1951 68 RPC 103 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 72 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 trade mark consisting of the word "Vaporub" and another
 registered trade mark consisting of a design of which the words
 "Vicks Vaporub Salve" formed a part. The appendix at p. 226 -
 shows that the defendants advertised their ointment as 'Karsote
 vapour Rub". It was held that the defendants had infringed the
 registered marks.Lord Radcliffe said : ". . . a mark is infringed by
 another trader if, even without using the whole of it upon or in
 connection with his goods, he uses one or more of its essential
 features." 10. Mr. Sen stressed the point that the words Ambal and Andal
 had distinct meanings. Ambal is the consort of Lord Siva and
 Andal is the consort of Ranganatha. He said that in view of the
 distinct ideas conveyed by the two words a mere accidental
 phonetic resemblance could not lead to confusion. In this
 connection he relied on Venkateswaran's Law of Trade and
 Merchandise Marks,1963 Ed., page 214, Kerly Law of Trade
 Marks and Trade Names, 9th Edn., p. 465, Article 852 and the
 decision Application by Thomas A. Smith Ltd., to Register a trade
 mark45. In that case Neville, J. held that the words "limit" and
 "summit" were words in common use, each conveying a distinctly
 definite idea; that there was no possibility of any one being
 deceived by the two marks; and there was no ground, for refusing
 registration. Mr. Sen's argument loses sight of the realities of the
 case. The Hindus in the south of India may be well aware that the
 words Ambal and Andal represent the names of two distinct
 goddesses. But the respondent's customers are not confined to
 Hindus alone. Many of their customers are Christians, Parsees,
 Muslims and persons of other religious denominations. Moreover,
 their business is not confined to south of India. The customers who
 are not Hindus or who do not belong to the south of India may not
 know the difference between the words Andal and Ambal. The
 words have no direct reference to the character and quality of
 snuff. The customers who use the respondent's goods will have a
 recollection that they are known by the word Ambal. They may also
 have a vague recollection of the portrait of a benign goddess used
 in connection with the mark. They -are not likely to remember the
 fine distinctions between a Vaishnavite goddess and a Shivaite
 deity.‖
 (Emphasis supplied) 45 1913 30 RPC 363 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 73 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.5.4 From the afore-extracted passage of the decision of the Supreme
 Court, the following principles emerge: The fact that the pictorial devices in conjunction with which the
 two marks were used were different, was irrelevant in such
 circumstances. 56.6 Ruston & Hornsby Ltd7 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 74 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.6.1 Ruston & Hornsby Ltd. (―RHL‖, hereinafter) was the
 proprietor of the trade mark ―RUSTON‖ in respect of internal
 combustion engines, which it sold in India under the said mark. The
 respondent Zamindara Engineering Company (―ZEC‖, hereinafter)
 was also manufacturing and selling internal combustion engines under
 the trade mark ―Rustam‖. RHL addressed a legal notice to ZEC calling
 upon it to desist from continuing to use the trade mark ―RUSTAM‖ on
 its engines, claiming that the use of the said marks infringed the
 plaintiff's registered trade mark ―RUSTON‖. ZEC, in reply, denied
 the allegations of infringement and pointed out, inter alia, that the
 mark used by the ZEC was ―RUSTAM INDIA‖. RHL instituted a suit
 against ZEC restraining ZEC from infringing the trade mark
 ―RUSTON‖. The suit was dismissed by the Additional District Judge
 vide judgment dated 3 January 1958 holding that there was no
 phonetic similarity between ―RUSTON‖ and ―RUSTAM‖. 56.6.2 RHL carried the matter to the High Court of Allahabad. The
 High Court of Allahabad vide judgment dated 23 November 1965,
 reversed the decision of the learned ADJ and restrained ZEC from
 using the trade mark ―RUSTAM‖. However, so long as the mark of
 the defendant was used in conjunction with India, as ―RUSTAM
 INDIA‖ the High Court held that no infringement could be said to
 exist, as RHL's engines were manufactured in England and ZEC's
 engines were manufactured in India. As such, the High Court
 permitted ZEC to use the mark ―RUSTAM INDIA‖. RHL appealed,
 thereagainst, to the Supreme Court. 56.6.3 The Supreme Court decided the issue thus: But in an infringement action the issue is as follows: 4. It very often happens that although the defendant is not
 using the trade mark of the plaintiff, the get up of the defendant's
 goods may be so much like the plaintiff's that a clear case of
 passing off would be proved. It is on the contrary conceivable that
 although the defendant may be using the plaintiff's mark the get up
 of the defendant's goods may be so different from the get up of the
 plaintiff's goods and the prices also may be so different that there
 would be no probability of deception of the public. Nevertheless, in
 an action on the trade mark, that is to say, in an
 infringement action, an injunction would issue as soon as it is
 proved that the: defendant is improperly using the plaintiff's mark. 5. The action for infringement is a statutory right. It is
 dependent upon the validity of the registration and subject to other
 restrictions laid down in Sections. 30, 34 and 35 of the Act. On the
 other hand the gist of a passing off action is that A is not entitled to
 represent his goods as the goods of B but it is not necessary for B
 to prove that A did this knowingly or with any intent to deceive. It
 is enough that the get-up of B's goods has become distinctive of
 them and that there is. a probability of confusion between them and
 the goods of A. No. case of actual deception nor any actual
 damage need be proved. At common law the action was not
 maintainable unless there had been fraud on A's part. In equity,
 however, Lord Cottenham L.C. in Millington v. Fox46 held that it
 was immaterial whether the defendant had been fraudulent or not
 in using the plaintiff's trade mark and granted an injunction
 accordingly. The common law courts, however, adhered to their
 view that fraud was necessary until the Judicature Acts, by fusing 46 Signature Not Verified3 My & Cr 338 Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 76 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 law and equity, gave the equitable rule the victory over the
 common law rule. 6. The two actions, however, are closely similar in some
 respects, As was observed by the Master of the Rolls in Saville
 Perfumery Ltd. v. June Perfect Ltd.47. 7. In an action for infringement where the defendant's trade
 mark is identical with the plaintiff's mark, the Court will not
 enquire whether the infringement is such as is likely to deceive or
 cause" confusion. But where the alleged infringement consists of
 using not the exact mark on the Register, but something similar to.
 it, the test of infringement is the same as in an action for passing
 off in other words, the test as to likelihood of confusion or
 deception arising from similarity of .marks is the same both in
 infringement and passing off actions. 8. In the present case the High Court has found that there is a
 deceptive resemblance between the word "RUSTON" and the 'word
 "RUSTAM" and therefore the use of the bare word "RUSTAM"
 constituted infringement of the plaintiff's trade mark "RUSTON".
 The respondent has not brought an appeal against the judgment of
 the High Court on this point and it is, therefore, not open to. him to
 challenge that finding. If the respondent's trade mark is deceptively
 similar to. that of the appellant the fact that the word 'INDIA' is
 added to the respondent's trade mark is of no consequence and the
 appellant is entitled to succeed in its action for infringement of its
 trade mark." (Emphasis supplied) 47 58 RPC 147 at 161 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 77 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.6.4 Resultantly, the Supreme Court reversed the decision of the
 High Court and permanently restrained ZEC from infringing RHL's
 trade mark ―RUSTON‖, inter alia, by use of the mark ―RUSTAM‖ or
 ―RUSTAM INDIA‖. 56.6.5 The following principles emerge from the decision of the
 Supreme Court: As against this, the question to be asked in an infringement
 action was: 56.7 Parle Products8

 56.7.1 Parle Products (P) Ltd. (―Parle‖, hereinafter) manufactured
 and sold biscuits. They were the registered proprietors of the word
 mark ―Gluco‖ as well as a device mark constituting the wrapper of
 their product ―Parle's Gluco Biscuits‖, which was of buff colour, with
 the said name printed on the wrapper, depicting a farmyard with a girl
 in the centre carrying a pail of water and cows and hens around her
 with a background of a farmhouse and trees. Parle sued JP &
 Company (―JP‖, hereinafter) alleging that JP was selling biscuits in a
 wrapper which was deceptively similar to the wrapper which
 constituted the registered trade mark of the Parle, and was, thereby,
 infringing Parle's registered trade mark. 56.7.2 JP denied the allegation, contending that the designs of the
 two wrappers were considerably different in appearance. It was
 pointed out that, unlike Parle's wrapper, JP's wrapper contained the
 picture of a girl supporting, with one hand, a bundle of hay on her
 head and carrying a sickle and a bundle of food in the other. It was
 also contended that the cows and hens as well as the buildings on JP's
 wrappers were unlike the cows and hens and buildings on Parle's
 wrapper. 56.7.3 The learned trial court, before whom the suit was filed by
 Parle, opined that the dissimilarities between the wrappers of Parle
 and JP's outnumbered the similarities and that, therefore, there was no
 likelihood of the JP's biscuits being passed off as Parle's. 56.7.4 This decision was affirmed by the High Court, which also
 held that, even if the broad features of the two wrappers were taken
 into consideration, they could not be regarded as similar, or at any
 rate, as so similar as to deceive an ordinary purchaser of biscuits. 56.7.5 The matter travelled to the Supreme Court, at the instance of
 Parle. 56.7.6 The Supreme Court held thus: In the above case the Court further pointed out; 8. According to Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Marks
 Names (9th Edn. para 838): 9. It is therefore clear that in order to come to the conclusion
 whether one mark is deceptively similar to another, the broad and
 essential features of the two are to be considered. They should not
 be placed side by side to find out if there are any differences in the
 design and if so, whether they are of such character as to prevent
 one design from being mistaken for the other. It would be enough if
 the impugned mark bears such an overall similarity to the
 registered mark as would be likely to mislead a person usually
 dealing with one to accept the other if offered to him. In this case
 we find that the packets are practically of the same size, the color
 scheme of the two wrappers is almost the same; the design on both
 though not identical bears such a close resemblance that one can
 easily be mistaken for the other. The essential features of both are
 that there is a girl with one arm raised and carrying something in
 the other with a cow or cows near her and hens or chickens in the
 foreground. In the background there is a farm house with a fence.
 The word "Gluco Biscuits" in one and "Glucose Biscuits" on the
 other occupy a prominent place at the top with a good deal of
 similarity between the two writings. Anyone in, our opinion who
 has a look at one of the packets to-day may easily mistake the other
 if shown on another day as being the same article which he had
 seen before. If one was not careful enough to note the peculiar
 features of the wrapper on the plaintiffs‟ goods, he might easily
 mistake the defendants' wrapper for the plaintiffs if shown to him
 some time after he had seen the plaintiffs'. After all, an ordinary
 purchaser is not gifted with the powers of observation of a
 Sherlock Holmes. We have therefore no doubt that the defendants'
 wrapper is deceptively similar to the plaintiffs' which was
 registered. We do not think it necessary to refer to the decisions
 referred to at the bar as in our view each case will have to be,
 judged on its own features and it would be of no use to note on
 how many points there was similarity and in how many others
 there was absence of it. 10. It was argued before us that as both the trial court and the
 High Court had come to the same conclusion namely, that the
 defendants' wrapper was not deceptively similar to the plaintiffs',
 the finding is one of fact which should not be disturbed by this
 Court. Normally, no doubt this Court does not disturb a concurrent Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 83 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 finding of fact. But where, as here we find that the finding was
 arrived at not on proper consideration of the law on the subject it is
 our duty to set the same aside on appeal.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 56.7.7 On the basis of the aforesaid reasoning, the Supreme Court
 allowed the appeal of Parle and decreed the suit instituted by it,
 thereby restraining JP from using wrappers, for their biscuits, which
 were similar to the registered trade mark of Parle. 56.7.8 From the afore-extracted passages, the following principles
 emerge: 56.8 Heinz Italia v. Dabur India Ltd48 56.8.1 The asserted mark in this case is the same as that with which we
 are concerned, i.e., Glucon-D, though asserted by Heinz Italia SRL
 (―Heinz‖, hereinafter), the original proprietor of the said trade mark
 and the predecessor-in-interest of the present plaintiff. The trade
 mark ―Glucon-D‖ was initially registered in the name of Glaxo on 21
 May 1975 and subsequently assigned to Heinz vide Assignment Deed
 dated 30 September 1994. Heinz claimed to have been using the trade
 mark Glucon-D and the distinctive packaging of the said product -
 which is the same as the prior packaging in the present case - from
 1994 till 2002 uninterruptedly. 56.8.2 Heinz sued Dabur India (―Dabur‖, hereinafter) for launching a
 similar product under the name ―Glucose-D‖ in a similar packaging.
 Dabur contended, in its written statement, per contra, that ―Glucose‖
 was a generic expression of the product being sold and that no one
 could claim monopoly over the words ―Glucose‖. It was additionally 48 (2007) 6 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 85 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 submitted that there was no similarity between the marks ―Glucon-D‖
 and ―Dabur Glucose-D‖ and that the packagings were also dissimilar. 56.8.3 The learned trial court, vide order dated 11 December 2003,
 held that ―Glucose‖ was a generic expression and that Heinz could
 not, therefore, claim that the use of the word ―Glucose-D‖ violated the
 registered trade mark ―Glucon-D‖. The packaging's of the two
 products was also held, by the learned trial court, to be dissimilar. 56.8.4 An appeal preferred thereagainst before the High Court of
 Punjab and Haryana having failed, Heinz carried the matter to the
 Supreme Court. 56.8.5 The relevant passages from the judgment of the Supreme Court
 are as under: 16. Likewise, it has been repeatedly held that before the use of
 a particular mark can be appropriated it is for the plaintiff to
 prove that the product that he is representing had earned a
 reputation in the market and that this reputation had been sought
 to be violated by the opposite party. In Corn Products3 case it was
 observed that the principle of similarity could not to be very rigidly
 applied and that if it could be prima facie shown that there was a
 dishonest intention on the part of the defendant in passing off
 goods, an injunction should ordinarily follow and the mere delay
 in bringing the matter to Court was not a ground to defeat the case
 of the plaintiff. It bears reiteration that the word "Glucon-D" and
 its packaging had been used by Glaxo since 1940 whereas the
 word "Glucose- D" had been used for the first time in the year
 1989. 17. In Cadila Healthcare50 case, it has also been held that in
 the case of a passing off action the similarities rather than the
 dissimilarities have to be taken note of by the Court and the
 principle of phonetic "similarity" cannot be ignored and the test is
 as to whether a particular mark has obtained acceptability in the
 market so as to confuse a buyer as to the nature of product he was
 purchasing. We observe that the both Glucon-D and Glucose-D
 are items containing glucose and to us it appears that there is
 remarkable phonetic similarity in these two words. 18. We have also examined the packaging of the product and
 specifically Annexure P.6 (colly). Item D of Annexure P-6 is the
 packaging in dispute. It will be seen that the colour scheme of
 Glucose-D and Glucon-D is almost identical with a happy family
 superimposed on both. Mr. Chandra has however pointed out that
 in Glucose-D the happy family consisted of four whereas in the
 case of Glucon-D the family was of three and as such the two were
 dissimilar. We are of the opinion however that the colour scheme
 and the overall effect of the packaging has to be seen. We have
 also examined Item D individually which is the exclusive 51 1979 (2) All ER 927 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 87 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 packaging for Glucose-D; the one on the extreme left being the
 packaging in the year 1989, the one in the middle being the one for
 the year 2000 (which is impugned in the present suit) and the third
 on the extreme right which is the subject matter of the suit in
 Calcutta which has been stayed on the application made by
 respondent. We are of the opinion that the packaging of Glucose-D
 and Glucon-D is so similar that it can easily confuse a purchaser.
 We also feel that mere fact that the respondents have time and
 again made small changes in their packaging is an attempt to
 continue to mislead the purchaser and to make it more difficult for
 the appellants to protect their mark, which the record shows has
 acquired an enviable reputation in the market which is sought to be
 exploited by the respondent. ***** 20. We accordingly set aside the order of the trial court dated
 11-12-2023 and the order of the High Court dated 27-10-2005.
 However, as this order is confined only to the limited question of
 an ad-interim injunction, any observation made in this order would
 not bind the trial Judge in the proceedings in the suit. The
 application for ad-interim injunction is accordingly allowed in
 terms of prayer clause (ii) of the application.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 56.8.6 It would be seen that the Supreme Court finally granted an
 injunction in terms of prayer clause (ii) in the Order XXXIX
 application filed by Heinz. The prayer clause (ii), however, is not
 forthcoming either in the judgment of the Supreme Court or in the
 judgment dated 27 October 2005 of the High Court of Punjab and
 Haryana in FAO 233/200452, from which the matter travelled to the
 Supreme Court. A reading of the afore-extracted passage from the
 judgment of the Supreme Court discloses that the Supreme Court dealt
 only with the aspect of passing off and did not address the aspect of
 infringement. Manu/PH/0618/2005 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 88 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.8.7 The Supreme Court has endorsed the ingredients of passing off
 as delineated in its earlier decision in Cadila Health Care Ltd. v.
 Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.50(Cadila-I) Having distilled the
 principles applicable to passing off, the Supreme Court has, in para 18
 of the decision, returned findings on facts, after examining the rival
 packs. It has held the colour scheme of the two packs to be almost
 identical with a happy family superimposed in both, though the
 number of members of the family were different. In that view of the
 matter, the Supreme Court has held that the trade dress of the two
 products was such that they could easily confuse a purchaser.
 Additionally, it has been held that there is remarkable phonetic
 similarity between the marks ―Glucon-D‖ and ―Glucose-D‖ and that
 both are items containing glucose. Though a specific contention was
 advanced, before the Supreme Court, that ―Glucose‖, being a
 descriptive mark, could not be injuncted, the Supreme Court has not
 returned any finding thereon, as it has proceeded on the premise of
 passing off. 56.9 Marico10

 56.9.1 Marico Ltd. (―Marico‖, hereinafter) was a proprietor of the
 registered trade mark ―LOSORB‖ and ―LO-SORB‖ for oil, ghee, etc.
 in class 29 w.e.f. 28 May 2001. The use of the mark ―LOSORB‖ and
 ―LO-SORB‖ was intended to convey the message that the edible oil,
 with respect to which the marks were used, contained an
 ingredient/anti foaming agent by which less or low oil was consumed
 by the product made by using the said edible oil. 56.9.2 Agro Tech Foods Ltd. (―Agro‖, hereinafter) was selling
 sunflower oil under the trade mark ―Sundrop‖. As the oil sold by Agro
 also contained an anti-foaming agent, which retarded absorption of the
 oil during the process of frying, Agro's packaging also contained the
 slogan ―WITH LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY‖. 56.9.3 Marico contended that the expression ―LOW ABSORB‖, used
 by Agro, was deceptively similar to the registered mark ―LOSORB‖
 and ―LO-SORB‖ of Marico and that, thereby, the tort of infringement
 stood committed by Agro. Marico, therefore, sued Agro and, with the
 suit, filed an application under Order XXXIX of the CPC , seeking
 interlocutory injunction. The application for injunction was dismissed
 by a learned Single Judge of this Court vide judgment dated 23 April
 2010, against which Marcio preferred an appeal which stands disposed
 of, by the Division Bench, by the judgment under discussion. 56.9.4 The Division Bench identified the two principles issues arising
 for consideration thus: The Division Bench of this Court held that the expression ―Sugar
 Free‖ was descriptive and generic, and could not be said to be coined.
 Even if the mark ―Sugar Free‖ had acquired distinctiveness in the
 hands of the apellant, Cadila could, nonetheless, not seek to injunct
 others from using the mark ―Sugar Free‖, as it was purely descriptive
 and lacked distinctiveness. The following passage from Cadila-II53,
 which was entirely endorsed and re-affirmed by the Division Bench in
 Marico10, sets out the legal position in that regard: In our view, the expression „Sugar Free‟ is neither a corned word
 nor an unusual juxtaposition of two English words especially when
 such expressions are commonly used, both in written, as well as
 spoken English, for example, „hands-free‟ (for mobile phones) and
 „fat free‟ (for food articles) and thus cannot be permitted exclusive
 use for only the appellant's product. 11. The appellant has relied upon the case of Godfrey Philips 55 India Ltd. v. Girnar Food & Beverages (P) Ltd. wherein it was held
 that a descriptive trade mark may be entitled to protection if it has
 assumed a secondary meaning which identifies it with a particular
 product or has been from a particular source. It is also relevant to
 mention here the judgment of Home Solutions56 was also relied
 upon by the respondents, wherein it was held that the expression
 ‗HOMESOLUTIONS' is inherently incapable of becoming
 distinctive of any single person with respect of any single product 54 (2002) RPC 17 55 2005 (30) PTC 1 (SC) 56 2007 (35) PTC 697 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 93 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 or service. It is generic and publici juris. It describes the nature of
 services offered. Thus, in our view, the mark „Sugar Free‟ is
 inherently incapable of becoming distinctive of the product of the
 appellant and hence the ratio of Godfrey Philips would thus not be
 applicable. Even if it is assumed that the mark of the appellant has
 become distinctive qua the artificial sweetener, however, the
 protection to the mark qua the product artificial sweetener cannot
 be extended to all the food products of any competitor in the
 market. We also affirm and reiterate the view taken by the learned
 Single Judge that the appellant's product is a sweetener/sugar
 substitute, and sweeteners are generally understood in their
 functional sense, that is, in terms of utility when added to foods and
 beverages. To an average consumer, a sweetener is known to exist
 only when added to food and beverages, and its own identity gets
 merged in the food and beverages to which it is added. Thus, the
 expression „Sugar Free‟ when used in relation to a sweetener may
 really describe a sweetener in the sense of its generic meaning, and
 what it connotes is the specific nature and characteristics of the
 product. ***** 14. In consonance with the above view we are also not in a
 position to agree with the appellant that the word ‗Sugar Free' has
 become so distinctive of the sugar substitute and has acquired such
 a secondary meaning in the sugar substitute market that it cannot
 refer to any other food product except the appellant's sugar
 substituted product labelled ‗Sugar Free'. There cannot be any
 doubt that the word „sugar free‟ is not inherently distinctive and is
 clearly descriptive in nature. In fact, the word „Sugar Free‟ in
 essence clearly only describes the characteristics of the appellant's
 product and therefore, cannot afford it the protection sought in the
 plaint by restraining the respondent from using the phrase „sugar
 free‟. „Sugar Free‟ prima facie has not attained any
 distinctiveness, as alleged by the appellant outside the field of
 sugar substitute artificial sweeteners and the appellant would not
 be entitled to exclusively claim the user of the expression „sugar
 free‟ in respect of any product beyond its range of products and the
 respondent cannot be restrained from absolutely using the
 expression „Sugar Free‟, particularly in the descriptive sense. A
 mere descriptive usage of the expression „Sugar Free‟ by the
 respondent may thus blunt the edge of claim of distinctiveness by
 the appellant. However, we make it clear that if any party enters
 into the domain of artificial sweeteners with the trade mark „Sugar
 Free‟ the appellant may have a just cause in seeking restraint." (Emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 94 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.9.8 Applying the principles which emanated from the decision in Cadila-II53 supra, the Division Bench proceeded in para 10 to 19 of its
 decision, to deal with the aspect of passing off, thus: 24. In view of the co-relation between Section 28 and different
 sub-sections of Section 124 , it becomes clear that the entitlement to
 claim invalidity of registration on the ground of the expression "if
 valid" as found under Section 28 only arises if the defendant in his
 written statement in a suit alleging infringement of a registered
 trademark takes up the plea with respect to registration of
 trademark being "invalid" or has already applied for cancellation
 of the registered trademark before the suit alleging infringement is
 filed. (Emphasis supplied)

 56.9.10 Thereafter, in paras 27 to 32, 34, 36 to 41, Marico10 held
 thus: sections of Section 124 . The learned Single Judge applied his mind
 and considered this issue of prima facie validity of registration of
 trade mark for deciding the interlocutory application and which is
 very much permissible and in fact so provided under Section
 124(5) . 29. Now let us examine the issue of prima facie validity of
 registrations of the appellant for deciding the aspect of grant of
 injunction in the facts of the present case. When we look at the
 facts in the present case, we find that when the application was
 filed for registration of the trade marks "LOSORB" and "LO-
 SORB", the applications clearly stated "proposed to be used".
 Quite clearly therefore on the date of registration there was no
 user at all of the trade mark, much less such use of it so as to give
 the trade mark a distinctive character as a result of use made of it
 or the same being a well known trade mark. Clearly therefore, the
 registration of the trade mark "LOSORB" and "LO-SORB" were
 prima facie invalid because the said trade marks basically are a
 minor variation of a descriptive expression "LOW ABSORB" conveys the same meaning as "ABSORBS LOW". Such descriptive
 word marks are clearly such for which there is an absolute ground
 for refusal of registration by virtue of Section 9(1)(b) of the Act
 because clearly the said word marks are in fact clear indications of
 designation of the kind, quality, intended purpose or other
 characteristics of the goods of which the trade mark is applied. The
 registrations being prima facie invalid no action for infringement
 would thus lie. On the issue of acquiring distinctiveness subsequent
 to the making of the application for registration, we have already
 dilated at length in the earlier part of this judgment while dealing
 with the issue of passing off that it cannot be said that the mark Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 101 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 "LOW ABSORB" has acquired a secondary meaning by user of a
 few years. 30. We will now examine the issue whether the expressions
 ―LOSORB‖ or ―LOSORB‖ have achieved a secondary meaning
 even if ―LOW-ABSORB‖ may not have. On this aspect one
 immediately feels that it is an aspect of concern with respect to the
 claim of the plaintiff that if partly tweaked descriptive words and
 expressions of English language are claimed to be coined words,
 the same would result in a grave and absurd situation because a
 non-tweaked word being a completely descriptive word will in fact
 be deceptively similar to the tweaked descriptive English language
 word or expression of which registration is obtained. Meaning
 thereby that because of success in getting registered a minor
 modification of a descriptive word or expression of the English
 language, a person who gets registration can prevent a purely
 descriptive use of a normal word or expression as found in English
 language dictionary on the ground that it would be identical with
 or deceptively similar to a registered trade mark--a position which
 is found in the present case. Such a position, in our opinion, cannot
 at all be countenanced and must be struck down with a heavy hand. 31. When we see the facts and circumstances of the present
 case, we find that both the parties claim to have an ingredient in
 their product namely edible oil an antifoaming agent which results
 in lower oil being consumed while frying the food. In such a case
 scenario, it cannot be claimed at this interim stage that there is a
 secondary significance by user up to registration to such coined
 words "LOSORB" and "LO-SORB" keeping in view the fact that
 such coined words have a clear reference to an indicative of the
 kind, quality, intended purpose, characteristic, etc. of the goods
 and are not ordinarily entitled to registration. We have, while on
 the issue of passing off, already adverted to the aspect of whether
 the sales are related to the trade marks ―LOSORB/LO-SORB‖ or to
 ―Sweakar/Saffola‖, being a moot point. Having expounded on the
 law as above, we may again add that in a particular case, it is
 possible that a descriptive word mark on account of its such
 extensive user over a great length of time, when no other person
 has been shown to use the same, the same may in fact become a
 well known trade mark or a trade mark which has achieved such
 distinction by user that it can be registered. Where the combination
 of words forming a trade mark is an unusual juxtaposition of
 words or part words the distinction may be achieved more easily
 than where the user of words put jointly is not an unusual syntax
 and also especially when the adaption is arbitrary with respect to
 the goods/trade. There can be a case where a coined word would
 be entitled to trade mark protection where the coined word is the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 102 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 result of joining of one or two or few normal non descriptive
 English words of the dictionary or one word out of the two or more
 words forming a coined word is an arbitrary adaption. As already
 stated, therefore, in trade marks matters, every case necessarily
 turns upon and is decided on its own facts including but not limited
 to the trade mark, goods in question, customers, use and all other
 factors and their intense co-relation in each case. 32. Thus, looking at the issue of entitlement of the learned
 Single Judge to question the validity of the registration of the trade
 mark for the purpose of deciding the interlocutory application, we
 find that the same was also justified because firstly no evidence
 was filed of distinctiveness of the trade marks at the time of
 registration since the same did not exist because admittedly the
 applications were filed for registration of the trade marks on a
 "proposed to be used basis" and secondly so far as the evidence of
 user we have already held that the user in the facts of the present
 case is not such as to confer distinctiveness amounting to a
 secondary meaning for the word marks which are in fact just a
 tweaked form of ordinary descriptive words in not an unusual
 syntax. ***** 34. The aforesaid emphasized portions of the three sections
 clearly bring out the different situations which are envisaged in the
 three different provisions and obviously there is no conflict
 between any of the three provisions. As per the proviso to Section
 9(1) of the Act, ordinarily, evidence to make the trade mark
 distinctive by use has to be on the date of the application. The
 provision of Section 31(2) provides for an additional/bonus period
 so to say, to entitle the registration of the mark, and this bonus
 period is from the date of the application to the actual date of
 registration. Meaning thereby, ordinarily, the evidence of the
 distinctiveness by use has to be on the date of the application, but Section 31(2) allows evidence of distinctiveness post the making of
 the application up to the date of registration. There is a hiatus
 between the date of the application and the date of registration
 because after an application is made for registration of a trade
 mark, a detailed procedure has to be followed including of
 publication inviting objections and deciding the said objections
 before grant of registration. During this intervening period, from
 the date of the application to the actual date of registration,
 ordinarily evidence would not have been looked at for registration
 of the mark because the proviso to Section 9(1) requires evidence
 only of distinctiveness by use as on the date of making of the
 application, however, Section 31(2) relaxes the rigour of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 103 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 proviso to Section 9(1) in that evidence of distinctiveness by use
 can be looked into of the period up to the actual date of
 registration. Therefore, there is no conflict between the proviso to Section 9(1) and Section 31(2) . There is also no conflict between
 the proviso to Section 9(1) of the Act and the provision of Section 32. On the first blush there may appear to be conflict because Section 32 seems to apply to all legal proceedings, and which
 would include infringement proceedings. However, the doubt is
 removed/cleared by the expressions ―declared invalid‖ and
 ―challenging the validity of such registration‖ as appearing in Section 32 of the Act. A declaration as to invalidity of the
 registration of the mark can only be given by the
 Registrar/Appellate Board and not by the civil Court. The
 declaration of invalidity of registration is on an application for
 cancellation of the registered trade mark which is filed under Section 57 of the Act. Therefore, the evidence with regard to the
 distinctiveness to justify registration, in terms of Section 32 can
 only be in the proceedings before the Registrar/Appellate Board in
 cancellation proceedings and not in the proceedings in the civil
 Court where an infringement action is filed. Thus, a conjoint
 reading of the three provisions being the proviso to Section 9(1) , Section 31(2) and Section 32 brings forth the position that
 ordinarily evidence of distinctiveness by use ought to be as
 available on the date of the filing of the application for registration,
 however, there is a relaxation by extending this period which
 ordinarily is only up to the date of the application to the actual date
 of registration by virtue of Section 31(2) . The evidence to show
 distinctiveness of the trade mark even post-registration is available
 only in proceedings where the trade mark is sought to be declared
 invalid i.e., in the cancellation proceedings under Section 57 of the
 Act. Therefore, it is not possible to argue and contend that even
 though no evidence was filed of distinctiveness by use of the trade
 mark up to the date of registration, yet evidence can be looked into
 on distinctiveness by use post the date of registration of the trade
 mark up to the date a suit is filed for infringement proceedings. The
 evidence in the period post registration of the trade mark can only
 be looked into in proceedings to declare the trade mark invalid
 under Section 57 of the Act and not in a civil suit in a civil Court
 where infringement action of a registered trade mark is filed. In the
 facts of the present case to justify the validity of the registration of
 the trade mark at best evidence of distinctiveness could be looked
 into from the year 2001 when the application for registration was
 filed upto the year 2005 when the mark was registered, i.e.,
 evidence of distinctiveness by use cannot be looked into from the
 year 2005 till the year 2009 when the suit was filed. We have
 already held above that in fact even if there is user up to 2009, yet,
 descriptive trademarks have not become prima facie distinctive at Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 104 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 the stage of interim injunction. We have also adverted to the aspect
 of discouraging the entitlement of grant of distinctiveness to purely
 descriptive word marks. Therefore, the infringement action in this
 Court cannot be supported on the basis of evidence showing
 distinctiveness by user from 2005 to 2009 and that would be
 clearly be violative of the intendment of the provisions of Section
 31(2) and Section 32 read with the proviso to Section 9(1) of the
 Act. We, therefore, decline to look into the evidence of
 distinctiveness by user of 2005 to 2009 and therefore thereafter till
 date to justify the validity of registration and therefore the claim of
 grant of injunction on the basis of distinctiveness by user on
 account of use of the registered trade marks from the year 2005 to
 2009 when the suit was filed. ***** 36. It has been contended on behalf of the respondent that
 respondent is selling its edible oil in a package which clearly shows
 its trade mark as ―Sundrop‖. The respondent states that it is not
 using the expression ―LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY‖ as a trade
 mark and the same is only being used as a descriptive expression,
 and as a part of a sentence, with respect to the product in question,
 namely, edible oil. The appellant, however, counters to say that the
 expression ―LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY‖ is being used as a
 trade mark. We have already referred to the fact that the trade
 mark "Sundrop" is used by the respondent in a very prominent
 manner in its packaging by the respondent and that undoubtedly is
 the trade mark of the respondent. The defendant is using the
 expression "LOW ABSORB" not independently but only as a part
 of a sentence which reads on the packaging as "WITH LOW
 ABSORB TECHNOLOGY". 37. Our conclusion is that we have in fact totally failed to
 appreciate the argument as raised on behalf of the appellant.
 Surely, when rights are claimed over a word mark as a trade mark
 and which word mark is in fact a mere tweak of a descriptive word
 indicative of the kind, quality, intended purpose or other
 characteristics of the goods, it is not open to urge that although the
 respondent is using the descriptive word mark in fact only as a part
 of sentence as a description (and even assuming for the sake of
 argument only the descriptive word mark in itself) alongwith
 another independent trade mark, yet the use of descriptive words
 are to be injuncted against. How can it at all be argued that though
 the respondent is in fact shown to be using the disputed word(s)
 only with a descriptive intendment, yet, such use should be taken
 not in a descriptive manner but as a trade mark. If we permit such
 an argument to prevail then what will happen is that what cannot Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 105 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 be directly done will be indirectly done i.e., whereas the appellant
 is not entitled to succeed in the infringement action because the use
 by the respondent is in furtherance of its statutory rights of the user
 of the words which are descriptive of the kind, quality, intended
 purpose or characteristic of the goods, yet, merely because the
 appellant states that the respondent is using the same as a trade
 mark, the same should be taken as infringement of the trade mark
 of the appellant. Not only the plaintiff has no exclusive rights
 whatsoever to the trade marks because they are such which fall
 within the mischief of Section 30(2)(a) , the respondent/defendant is
 always fully justified and entitled to use the descriptive words in
 any and every manner that it so chooses and pleases to do. If there
 are no rights of the plaintiff to exclusive user of the trade mark
 then where does arise the question of disentitlement of a defendant
 to use the trade mark of the appellant inasmuch as any person who
 adopts a descriptive word mark does so at its own peril in that any
 other person will also be fully entitled to use the same in view of a
 specific statutory rights thereto, and there are various other
 statutory rights including that under Section 30(2)(a) , and which is
 what is being done by the respondent in the facts of the present
 case and its rights being further stronger because of the use along
 with the simultaneous use of its trade mark "Sundrop". 38. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, Section
 30(2)(a) clearly applies in entitling the respondent to use the
 expression "WITH LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY" because that
 is only a descriptive use by normal English words in the English
 language indicative of the kind, quality, intended purpose of
 characteristic of the goods. There is no use of the expression ―bona
 fide‖ in Section 30(2)(a) as is found in Section 35 , and we do not
 propose to import in Section 30(2)(a) the expression ―bona fide‖
 because the subject matters of the two sections i.e. Section 32(a) and Section 35 are though common on certain limited aspects,
 however the two Sections do in fact operate in separate fields. Also
 looking at the issue in another way, ―bona fide‖ aspect can in a
 way be said to be very much included in Section 30(2)(a) because
 the use of words which indicate their relation to the goods for the
 kind, quality, intended purpose or other characteristics, etc. of the
 goods, is clearly only a bona fide user of the same and which ―bona
 fideness‖ does not have to be additionally proved. In fact, there is
 ordinarily not only no lack of bona fides in using the normal
 descriptive word, and on the contrary there is in fact mala fides of a
 plaintiff in adopting otherwise a descriptive word mark and for
 which adaption there is ordinarily an absolute ground for refusal of
 registration of the trade mark. There is no mala fides of the
 respondent as alleged by the appellant because the respondent is
 using the expression ―LOW ABSORB‖ as part of a sentence in a Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 106 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 descriptive manner and the respondent is also prominently using its
 own trade mark ―Sundrop‖, an aspect we have repeatedly referred
 to otherwise in this judgment. Merely because the respondent used
 ―TM‖ earlier after the expression ―LOW ABSORB
 TECHNOLOGY‖ is not such as to wipe out statutory
 rights/defences of the respondent. 39. We are also of the opinion that once the person, against
 whom a suit is filed on the ground of infringement of a trade mark
 which is in fact a descriptive word, then, if a defendant is using his
 own word mark as a trade mark prominently in addition to the
 descriptive word mark which the plaintiff claims to be his trade
 mark, nothing further is required to show the bona fides of the
 defendant against whom infringement of a registered trade mark is
 alleged. In the facts of the present case, we have already adverted
 to in detail the prominent use by the respondent of its independent
 trade mark "Sundrop", and, the fact that the expression "LOW
 ABSORB" is being used only as part of the sentence which reads
 "WITH LOW ABSORB TECHNOLOGY". 40. We may however note that when two identical trade marks
 are used by two parties in the market, or that a use of a descriptive
 word by a defendant can be confused with the trade mark of a
 plaintiff, then a Court is always entitled to ensure that such
 distinction is brought or conditions are imposed qua the two
 identical or deceptively similar trade marks by imposing such
 conditions of use on both or either of the parties so that a third
 vital/important stake holder in these Intellectual Property Rights
 (IPR) disputes viz. the public, is not in any manner
 deceived/confused and whose rights are not prejudicially affected.
 This has been held by us in a recent judgment in Cadila
 Healthcare Ltd. v. Diat Foods (India )58, decided on 29.9.2010, in
 which this Court (speaking through Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J) has
 relied upon another Division Bench judgment of this Court in the
 case of Goenka Institute of Education and Research v. Anjani
 Kumar Goenka59 , as also Section 12 of the Act and held the
 entitlement of a Court to issue directions to ensure that there is no
 confusion in the public with respect to two separate products which
 are sold under identical or deceptively similar trade marks. Of
 course, in this case of Cadila Healthcare Ltd.53 use by the
 respondent/defendant was not as a trade mark but only in the
 descriptive sense, and yet, to avoid confusion to the public,
 directions were issued. Similar would be the entitlement of a Court
 afortiorari when two parties use same or deceptively similar
 descriptive word marks as trade marks. 173 (2010) DLT 141 (DB) 59 AIR 2009 (Delhi) 139 : 2009 (160) DLT 417 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 107 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 CONCLUSIONS 41. The following conclusions thus emerge: Evidence on distinctiveness with respect to trade marks
 falling under Section 9(1)(a) to (c) should be the evidence
 of user evidencing distinctiveness as on the date of
 application for registration or at the best of evidence up to
 the date of registration. (v) In infringement actions the Court is entitled to consider
 the evidence of distinctiveness up to the date of registration
 for the purpose of passing any interlocutory order and not
 evidence showing distinctiveness post registration.
 However, in cancellation proceedings evidence of
 distinctiveness post registration of the trade mark can also
 be considered. (vi) Even if there is finality to registration of a trade mark,
 yet the defendant in infringement action can take statutory
 defences under Sections 30 to 35 to defeat the infringement
 action. (Emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 108 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 56.9.11 A reading of the aforesaid passages from Marico10 delineates
 the following propositions: 56.10 A cumulative assessment of the propositions that emerge

 The following principles, therefore, stand enunciated in the aforenoted
 decisions: Differences in the physical appearance of the goods, or the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 113 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 manner in which they are packed, may be sufficient to
 discountenance any plea of passing off. (iv) Passing off could, therefore, take place even if the rival
 marks were different. (v) If the rival marks are the same, or the defendant's mark is
 deceptively similar to the plaintiff's, infringement would exist,
 but passing off may still be found not to take place if the get up,
 or other features, of the two products are noticeably
 distinguishable. (vi) Mens rea was not a necessary ingredient of passing off. (vii) The marks are not to be seen side by side. (viii) ―Confusion‖ refers to the state of mind of a customer
 who, on seeing the defendant's mark, thinks that it differs from
 the plaintiff's mark on goods which he has previously bought
 but is doubtful whether the impression is not due to imperfect
 recollection. Confusion can be said to exist where the customer,
 of average intelligence and imperfect recollection, who
 purchases the defendant's product some time after purchasing
 the plaintiff's, is likely to have a somewhat vague recollection
 that he had purchased a similar product or a product with a
 similar name at an earlier point of time. (ix) Possibility of confusion or deception has to be assessed
 on the basis of the first impression that the impugned mark, seen
 vis-à-vis the asserted mark, conveys to the customer of average
 intelligence and imperfect recollection. (x) The marks have to be compared as a whole, also
 including parts which are common to the rival marks. By doing
 so, where the marks have a common suffix, such as
 ―Amritdhara‖ and ―Lakshmandhara‖, the Court is not, thereby,
 granting the plaintiff a monopoly over the common ―dhara‖
 suffix but is only taking it also into account as part of the whole
 marks which are required to be compared. A customer of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection is not likely to
 dissect or split the mark which he sees. Nor can such a customer
 be attributed with a photographic recollection of the mark.
 Customers remember marks by their essential details or
 features. Where the marks are not identical, the aspect of
 infringement has to be decided by identifying the essential
 features of the rival marks. If the essential features of the
 asserted mark have been copied in the impugned mark, the
 impugned mark infringes. Identification of essential features is
 a question of fact. (xi) The etymological meaning of the rival word marks, or
 any similarity or difference therein, may also be of little
 significance, as the average customer does not go by the
 etymological significance of the mark. (xii) A trade mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion by
 resemblance to an earlier trade mark if it is likely to do so in the
 course of its legitimate use in a market where the two marks are
 assumed to be in use by traders. The Court has to examine
 whether, if the two marks are used in a fair and normal manner,
 there is any chance of confusion. (xiii) Similarity to be phonetic, visual, structural, or in the idea
 conveyed by the rival marks. Where, however, phonetic
 similarity is striking, infringement would be found to exist, even
 if the marks are visually dissimilar. (xiv) Similarity between word marks has to be determined by
 applying the Pianotist40 test. (xv) This impression has to be gathered by the Court. (xvi) Where the rival marks are identical, the Court would not
 enquire further into the likelihood of confusion or deception.
 However, if the marks are not identical but only similar,
 likelihood of confusion or deception must be shown to exist. (xvii) There can be no objective standards or criteria to
 determine the extent of similarity which would be required to
 make out a case of likelihood of confusion or deception. (xviii) At the stage of application for registration, the onus to
 establish that the mark, of which registration is being sought, is
 not likely to deceive or cause confusion, is on the applicant
 seeking its registration. Post registration, however, the mark
 would be entitled to statutory presumption of validity under Section 31(1) of the Trade Marks Act, and the onus to prove
 that the mark is not valid would be on the party questioning its
 validity. (xix) As the assessment of infringement, or passing off, is fact-
 based, precedents are generally of value only insofar as they
 identify the principles to be applied. (xx) English cases cannot be regarded as of much relevance in
 assessing the possibility of phonetic similarity between the rival
 marks. (xxi) A purely descriptive mark cannot be registered, unless it
 has acquired distinctiveness in the hands of the applicant. Nor
 could a plaintiff/applicant claim distinctiveness by merely
 tweaking a descriptive word. However, an unusual arrangement
 of common words could become distinctive in a given case. (xxii) No exclusivity can be claimed over descriptive or generic
 marks, if they are used by the defendant in a descriptive
 manner, even if they have acquired distinctiveness in the hands
 of the plaintiff. If, however, the defendant uses the mark as a Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 117 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 trade mark, the plaintiff may be justified in seeking an
 injunction. (xxiii) ―Distinctiveness‖, in the proviso to Section 9(1) , implies
 an immediate and unmistakable correlation, by the public, of the
 mark with its source/owner. In a majority of cases, this would
 be a matter of evidence. (xxiv) By virtue of the proviso to Section 9(1) read with Section
 31(2) , distinctiveness, if pleaded by the applicant/plaintiff, had
 to be shown to exist on or before the date of grant of registration
 to the asserted mark. (xxv) Courts are ordinarily to lean against holding descriptive
 marks to be distinctive, except where distinctiveness has in fact
 been acquired by user ―over many many years‖. (xxvi) The proviso to Section 9(1) would, therefore, not apply
 where the registration of the mark was sought on a ―proposed to
 be used‖ basis. (xxvii) The presumption of validity of a registered trade
 mark, conferred by Section 31(1) , was only prima facie. It
 became conclusive only if the registration was challenged, and
 the challenge failed. (xxviii) The right to defend an infringement action by
 questioning the validity of the asserted mark would be available Signature Not Verified only to a defendant who had either initiated a rectification Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 118 of 140 SINGH NEGI
Signing Date:03.07.2023
15:35:51
 proceeding under Section 57 prior to the filing of the suit or had
 taken, in the written statement, a plea that the asserted mark was
 invalid. (xxix) If the application under Order XXXIX was being
 considered before a written statement was filed, the Court
 would consider the validity of the asserted mark, if a plea in that
 regard was urged by the defendant. (xxx) Sections 30 and 35 operate as complete exceptions to Sections 28 and 29 . (xxxi) Thus seen, (a) ―Gluvita‖ was held to be deceptively similar to
 ―Glucovita‖, with the central ―co‖ syllable, as the only
 distinguishing feature, being insufficient to dispel the
 possibility of confusion, (b) ―Lakshmandhara‖ was found to be deceptively
 similar to ―Amritdhara‖ when used for identical products, (c) the device bearing the logo ―Sri Andal‖ was found
 to be deceptively similar to the device bearing the logo
 ―Sri Ambal‖ though the devices themselves were
 otherwise totally dissimilar, where both were used for
 identical products, (d) ―RUSTAM INDIA‖ was found to be deceptively
 similar to ―RUSTON‖, (e) ―Sugar Free‖ was not registerable when used for
 artificial sweeteners, and could not justify a claim for Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 119 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 injunction against others who desired to use the
 expression in a descriptive fashion, and (f) ―LO-SORB‖ and ―LOSORB‖ were held to be
 descriptive when used in respect of oil to indicate that it
 was not significantly absorbed while cooking. 57. Once the legal position is thus properly understood, all that
 remains is to apply the law to the facts at hand, and the submissions
 advanced by learned Senior Counsel, and let the chips fall where they
 may. 58. I proceed, therefore, to address the issues that arise, seriatim.
 Needless to say, all findings would be prima facie, as this judgment
 merely disposes of the application filed by the petitioner under Order
 XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 of the CPC . 59. Whether the defendants' marks infringe the plaintiff's registered
 trade marks? 59.1 The plaintiff possesses registrations, in its favour, of the word
 marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖. At the outset, I may note
 that the plaintiff would be entitled to assert not only the mark
 ―GLUCON-D‖ but also the mark ―GLUCON-C‖, though the said
 mark has not been used by the plaintiff for a considerable amount of
 time. The mark ―GLUCON-C‖ has not been abandoned by the
 plaintiff and continues to be a valid and subsisting registered trade
 mark. Though non-use is a ground on which cancellation of a Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 120 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 registered trade mark may be sought, no such application has been
 preferred by anyone, against the mark ―GLUCON-C‖. That being so,
 the plaintiff would be entitled to the benefit of Section 28(1) in respect
 of both the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ and,
 consequently, to protect both the marks against infringement under Section 29 . 59.2 Mr. Sibal has sought to contend that the defendants' mark is not
 ―Gluco-C‖ or ―Gluco-D‖ but ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte
 Gluco-D ++‖. This contention cannot merit acceptance, as ―Gluco-C‖
 and ―Gluco-D‖ constitute the essential features of the marks ―Prolyte
 Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖. Even as reflected on the face
 of the pack of the defendant's product, it is seen that ―Gluco-C ++‖
 and ―Gluco-D ++‖ are prominently visible in a much larger lettering
 and font than the mark ―Prolyte‖. The intent to project the ―Gluco-C
 ++‖ and ―Gluco-D ++‖ parts of the defendants' mark is therefore
 apparent. If, therefore, ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ parts of the
 defendants' marks are actually infringing of the plaintiff ―GLUCON-
 C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ marks, the defendants cannot seek amnesty on
 the ground that their marks are ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte
 Gluco-D ++‖. 59.3 Insofar as the comparisons between the marks ―GLUCON-C‖
 and ―Gluco-C‖ or ―GLUCON-D‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ are concerned, it is
 ex facie apparent that the marks ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ are
 deceptively similar to the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖
 respectively. The decision in Heinz48 would apply, mutatis mutandis, Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 121 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 and on all fours, to the present case. In that case, the court was
 concerned with a comparison between the marks ―GLUCON-D‖ and
 ―Gluco-D‖. It was found that the two marks were deceptively similar.
 The same conclusion would necessarily follow when one compares
 the marks ―GLUCON-D‖ vis-a-vis ―Gluco-D‖ and ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 vis-a-vis ―Gluco-D‖. 59.4 Prima facie, therefore, the defendants' marks ―Prolyte Gluco-C
 ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco D ++‖ infringe the plaintiff's registered marks
 ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖, especially as they are used for
 identical products. 60. Whether the trade dress of the defendants' product is
 confusingly or deceptively similar to the trade dress of the plaintiff's
 product ? 60.1 Mr. Lall sought to contend that the defendant has, for their
 products ―Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Gluco-D ++‖, both for the general and
 for the tangy orange flavours, adopted trade dresses which are similar
 to those of the plaintiff. As against this, Mr. Sibal has staunchly
 refuted the allegations, pointing out that the two trade dresses are
 completely dissimilar. 60.2 Though the earlier trade dress of the plaintiff's ―GLUCON-D‖
 is registered as a trade mark in favour of the plaintiff, there is no
 registration with the plaintiff of the present trade dress which is
 asserted in the plaint. Inasmuch the present trade dress is not
 registered as a trade mark in the plaintiff's favour, there can, stricto Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 122 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 sensu, be no sustainable allegation, against the defendants, of ―trade
 dress infringement‖. 60.3 What the court has, however, to examine is whether, by
 adopting a trade dress, in respect of the impugned trade marks
 ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖, which are
 deceptively similar to the trade dress adopted by the plaintiff for the
 asserted trade marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖, the
 defendants has increased the likelihood of confusion or deception in
 the minds of the customer of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection. 60.4 I am inclined, at this stage, to grant the benefit of doubt to the
 defendants on this aspect. There are features, of the trade dress
 adopted by the plaintiff, which also figure in the trade dress adopted
 by the defendants. The only two such prominent features are,
 however, in my view, the two-battery motif and the inclined side panel
 with the words ―INSTANT ENERGY‖ on a yellow background. As
 against this, Mr. Sibal points out correctly that the three features of the
 plaintiff's pack which have been identified as its essential features in
 para 14 of the plaint, namely, the inverted white triangle, the happy
 family of a husband, wife and child, and the bar at the lower edge of
 the front face of the pack depicting its contents, are all absent in the
 defendant's pack. 60.5 It is true that, five paras later in para 19, the plaint asserts that
 there are two more essential features of the appearance of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 123 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 plaintiff's pack, i.e., the colour of the pack, and the two battery motif,
 used to depict the comparison between that product and ordinary
 energy drinks. It is also true that the two battery motif has been used
 by the defendants on their pack as well. It has been pleaded in para
 29(D) of the written statement and also contended by Mr. Sibal during
 arguments that the use of the two battery motif is not distinctive, but
 merely descriptive and laudatory in nature, as what was intended to be
 conveyed was that, by consuming the product in question, the
 individual would be fully charged, like a fully charged battery, as
 compared to normal individuals who had not had the chance of
 consuming the said product and were, therefore, in a depleted state. 60.6 The submission has merely to be noted to be rejected. The
 defendants have not, in the pleadings, taken a stand that the use of the
 two battery motif was common to the trade. Nor have they cited any
 other examples in which the two battery motif has been used. The
 contention that the plaintiff has not been able to establish
 distinctiveness in respect of the two battery motif is also completely
 misconceived. On the face of it, the representation of the energy state
 of the person consuming the product, vis-a-vis an ordinary individual,
 by using the two battery motif, is creative and cannot be regarded as
 ordinary or lacking in distinctiveness. The submission, to that effect,
 in the written statement, and as urged by Mr. Sibal during arguments,
 therefore, deserves to be rejected. 60.7 I must confess that, given these various features, arriving at a
 conclusion, even prima facie, regarding whether there is confusing Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 124 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 trade dress similarity between the plaintiff's and the defendants'
 product has not been easy. The idea of the two battery motif, to
 represent the energy-inducing effect of the product, has apparently
 been lifted by the defendants from the plaintiff's pack. 60.8 I am, however, in agreement with Mr. Sibal that the mere use of
 the green colour on the pack of the normal variant and the orange
 colour on the pack of the Tangy Orange variant may not be treated as
 imitative, as the use of these colours does appear to be common to the
 trade even on the basis of the various examples cited in the plaint and
 reproduced hereinabove. Similarly, though Mr. Lall also stressed the
 use of the word ―tangy‖ along with ―orange‖ for the orange variant, it
 is difficult to hold that the mere use by the defendants of the words
 ―tangy orange‖ can be treated as imitative of the plaintiff's packing. 60.9 Viewed thus, if one were to compare the whole packs of the
 plaintiff and the defendants, it is difficult to hold, prima facie, that a
 customer, even of average intelligence and imperfect recollection,
 would be confused into mistaking the defendants' pack for the
 plaintiff's. The inverted white triangle and the picture of the happy
 family are prominent features of the plaintiff's pack, which had
 become source identifiers over a period of time. The plaint, too,
 candidly acknowledges this position in para 14. Neither of these figure
 on the defendants' pack. Instead of an inverted triangle, the words
 ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ figure on a
 background resembling a lightning flash. The overall arrangement of Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 125 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 colours on the defendants' pack is also clearly distinguishable from
 the arrangement of colours on the plaintiff's pack. 60.10 Copying may neither be wholesome, nor in keeping with good
 trade practice, but, so long as it stops short of infringement or passing
 off, is not actionable at law. So long, therefore, as there is no
 likelihood of confusion or deception to the public, as represented by
 the mythical consumer of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection, copying cannot invite injunctive action. Imitation, after
 all, is one form of flattery. The law frowns only when the act of
 imitation, by the imitator, entrenches on the intellectual property right
 of the person imitated. It is true that, in Slazenger & Sons v. Feltham
 & Co.60 , exhorted thus: Carey61, to concentrate on the similar, rather than the dissimilar,
 features of the ―Glucon-D‖ pack of the plaintiff and the ―Gluco-D ++‖
 pack of the defendants, it is prima facie difficult to hold that a
 customer who is aware of the plaintiff's pack and has an even
 imperfect recollection of its essential features, would confuse the
 defendants' pack for the plaintiff, if he comes across it at a later point
 of time. Though the use of the two battery motif may have been
 imitative, that by itself, in my view, cannot justify a finding of
 likelihood of confusion in the mind of such a customer, especially as
 the two battery motif is not reflected on the face of the packs but either
 on their rear or side panels. 60.11 Prima facie, therefore, it cannot be said that the trade dress of
 the defendants' product is deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff's
 product. 60.12 That, however, does not detract from the aspect of infringement,
 by the defendants' marks ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D
 ++‖ , of the plaintiff's marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖. 61. Effect of disclaimer of the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖ by the plaintiff

 61.1 Mr. Sibal sought to contend that, as the plaintiff has disclaimed
 exclusivity over the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖, while obtaining 61 (1905) 22 RPC 273 Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 127 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 registrations of the trade marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖,
 the aspect of infringement would have to be examined only by
 comparing the prefixes ―Glucon‖ with ―Gluco‖, omitting from
 consideration the disclaimed suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖. 61.2 I do not agree. The disclaimer, by plaintiff, of the suffixes ―C‖
 and ―D‖, only means that the plaintiff cannot plead infringement
 against the defendants solely on the ground that the defendants' mark
 also uses the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖. The suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖,
 therefore, cannot be a basis to claim exclusivity, so as to allege
 infringement by the mark of another person. The disclaimer of
 exclusivity in respect of the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖ does not, however,
 mean that, while comparing the marks of the plaintiff and the
 defendants, the said suffixes would be left out of consideration. It is
 well settled that the marks have to be compared as wholes. While
 comparing the marks as wholes, the suffixes ―C‖ and ―D‖, though
 disclaimed, have also to be taken into consideration. The court
 cannot, therefore, restrict its examination to assessing similarity
 between ―Glucon‖ and ―Gluco‖ as Mr. Sibal would seek to urge. The
 comparison has necessarily to be between ―Glucon-C‖ and ―Glucon-
 D‖ on the one hand and ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ on the other. 61.3 This plea of Mr. Sibal, therefore, stands rejected. 62. Whether the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ were not
 entitled to registrations in view of Section 9(1)(a) and (b) of the Trade
 Marks Act ? 62.1 Inasmuch as a specific challenge to the validity of the
 registration of the ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ trade marks has
 been taken in para 18 of the written statement filed by the defendant,
 the court is inclined to examine the matter, prima facie. 62.2 The main contention of Mr. Sibal, in this context, is that the
 marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ are descriptive. He has
 placed reliance, in this regard, on the reply filed by the plaintiff to the
 objections of the Registry of Trade Marks while seeking registration
 of the mark ―GLUCON-D‖. Mr. Sibal points out that, in the said
 reply, the plaintiff has categorically acknowledged that, in the mark
 ―GLUCON-D‖, the prefix ―Glucon‖ represented glucose and the
 suffix ―D‖ represented Vitamin D, as the two constituents of
 ―GLUCON-D‖. In the face of this acknowledgement, Mr. Sibal
 submits that the mark ―GLUCON-D‖ has necessarily to be treated as
 merely descriptive of the constituents of the product in respect of
 which the mark is used. The mark was, therefore, he submits, not
 entitled to registration. Mr. Sibal also relies, in this context, on the
 judgment in Marico10, in which the marks ―LOSORB/LO-SORB‖
 were held to be descriptive. 62.3 Mr. Lall submits, per contra, that the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖ cannot be treated as descriptive. He submits that the
 mark ―Glucon‖ is itself descriptive, as it has no etymological meaning.
 Moreover, he submits that the mere using of a hyphenated suffix ―-C‖
 or ―-D‖ with ―Glucon‖ would not invariably inform an unwary Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 129 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 customer of average intelligence and imperfect recollection that the
 product contains Vitamin C or Vitamin D.

 62.4 Having considered the submission of learned Senior Counsel, I
 am inclined to agree with Mr. Lall. The present case cannot, in my
 view, be analogised to situation which obtained in Marico10, in which
 the court was concerned with the mark ―LO-SORB‖, in the context of
 edible oil, to indicate that the oil was of low absorbing quality, when
 used in cooking. The relation between the mark, in Marico10, and the
 nature of the product in respect of which it was used is, in my opinion,
 far more direct than the relation between the mark ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖ and the product in respect of which they were used by
 the plaintiff. 62.5 When used in the context of edible oil, the quality of low
 absorption of the oil in the food preparation which is made using it is,
 unquestionably, a desirable quality. A customer of average
 intelligence, who notices the mark ―LOSORB‖, in respect of edible
 oil, is, therefore, likely to infer that the mark represents low absorbing
 quality of the oil. As against this, it cannot legitimately be said that a
 customer of average intelligence would, on espying the mark
 ―GLUCON-D‖, immediately come to the conclusion that the product
 is a combination of glucose and Vitamin D.

 62.6 Even if, arguendo, the suffix ―GLUCON‖ were to be presumed
 to suggest the presence of glucose in the product, it would, in my
 opinion, be stretching things too far to hold that the suffix ―-D‖ would Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 130 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 also, equally, suggest the presence of Vitamin D in the product. Mr.
 Lall submits that a mere suffix ―-D‖ or ―-C‖ cannot inform a customer
 of average intelligence that the product contains Vitamin ―D‖ or
 Vitamin ―C‖ as the case may be, and I am inclined to agree with him. 62.7 Mr. Lall has argued, with justification, that ―GLUCON-D‖ can
 be regarded, at best, as suggestive, not descriptive. In T.V. Venugopal
 v. Ushodaya Enterprises Ltd62 , the Supreme Court observed thus: 62.9 Interestingly, the exact word used in Section 9(1)(b) is not even
 ―describe‖, but ―designate‖. ―Designate‖ is an expression which is
 even more direct, in its etymological connotation, than ―describe‖.
 ―Designate‖ is defined, in P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Law Lexicon, as ―to
 call by a distinctive title; to point out a thing by distinguishing it from
 others; to express or declare; to ―indicate by description or by
 something known and determinate; to point out, or mark by some
 particular token; to specify‖. 62.10 It cannot, therefore, be held that the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ or
 ―GLUCON-D‖ designated, or were descriptive of, the contents of the
 product in respect of which they were used, or indicated that the
 products contained glucose with vitamin C or Vitamin D respectively. 537 F.2d 4, 9 (2nd Cir. 1976) Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 132 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 62.11 No independent argument, regarding want of distinctiveness in
 the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ or ―GLUCON-D‖ was advanced by Mr.
 Sibal, beyond the contention that the marks were descriptive of the
 contents of the product. 62.12 As such, I am unable to agree with Mr. Sibal that the marks
 ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ were ineligible for registration by
 virtue of Section 9(1)(a) and (b) of the Trade Marks Act . 63. Re: Proviso to Section 9(1) and Section 32 of the Trade Marks
 Act

 63.1 In view of my finding that the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖ cannot be treated as descriptive within the meaning of Section 9(1) (b) of the Trade Marks Act, no occasion arises for me to
 examine the applicability of the proviso to Section 9(1) . 63.2 Insofar as Section 32 of the Trade Marks Act is concerned, Mr.
 Lall's contention was that, even if the marks ―Glucon-C‖ and
 ―Glucon-D‖ were to be treated as descriptive, he would be entitled to
 the protection of Section 32 of the Trade Marks Act. To my mind, Section 32 really does not arise for consideration. Section 32 proscribes declaration of a trade mark as invalid even if it is registered
 in violation of Section 9(1) of the Trade Marks Act, if, by the date of
 institution of a challenge against its validity, the mark has acquired
 distinctiveness by dint of continues use. There is, prima facie,
 substance in Mr. Lall's contention that, in view of Section 32 , and Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 133 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 keeping in mind the fact that the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖ were registered as far back as in 1975 and, at least
 insofar as the mark ―GLUCON-D‖ is concerned, it has attained
 distinctiveness over decades of use and cannot, therefore, be declared
 invalid at this point of time, even if its registration was in violation of Section 9(1)(a) and Section 9(1)(b) . 63.3 That said, the registration of the marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and
 ―GLUCON-D‖ are not, in my view, violative of Section 9(1)(a) and Section 9(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act. 64. Whether the defendant would be entitled to the benefit of Section 30(2) (a) or Section 35 of the Trade Marks Act ? 64.1 Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, to the extent it is
 relevant, applies where the impugned trade mark is used by the
 defendant to indicate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose or
 other characteristics of the goods or services of the defendant.
 Applying this provision, the Division Bench of this Court held, in
 Marico10, that where the expression ―LOW ABSORB‖ was used by
 the defendant , in that case , as part of the phrase ―WITH LOW
 ABSORBING TECHNOLOGY‖, the use of the expression was purely
 descriptive and could not, therefore, be injuncted by plaintiff. Section
 30(2)(a) is a complete exception to Section 29 . Even if a registered
 trade mark is copied by the defendants or used by the defendants as it
 is, such use cannot be injuncted by the proprietor of the registered Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 134 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 trade mark, if the use of the mark by the defendants is purely
 descriptive in nature. 64.2 Even on the pleadings in the written statement, as well as the
 submissions orally advanced by Mr. Amit Sibal, the defendants cannot
 be held to be entitled to the benefit of this provision, insofar as the
 impugned marks are concerned. The pleadings in the written
 statement, as well as the submissions advanced at the bar by Mr. Sibal,
 are to the effect that, while the impugned marks are not ―Gluco-C‖ or
 ―Gluco-D‖ but ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖, the
 ―Gluco-C‖ and ―Gluco-D‖ parts of those marks are descriptive in
 nature. The benefit of Section 30(2) (a) of the Trade Marks Act is not
 available to a part of the mark. The benefit enures only if the entire
 mark of the defendants, impugned in the suit, is used in a descriptive
 fashion. Mr. Lall has correctly pointed out that, in the written
 statement, as well as during arguments advanced at the Bar, the
 defendants have chosen to contend, to contest the charge of
 infringement, on the one hand, that their marks are not ―Gluco-C‖ and
 ―Gluco-D‖ but ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖, and,
 on the other, to obtain the benefit of Section 30(2)(a) , that ―Gluco C‖
 and ―Gluco-D‖ are descriptive in nature. This, he submits, is
 impermissible, and I entirely agree. Once the defendants adopt a stand
 that their marks are ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ ,
 they can seek the benefit of Section 30(2)(a) only if they contend that
 the entire mark ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ or ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ is
 used in a descriptive fashion. There is no such contention in the
 written statement; neither has it been so argued by Mr. Sibal at the Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 135 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 Bar. Even if, therefore, it were to be assumed that the ―Gluco-C‖ or
 ―Gluco-D‖ parts of the marks ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte
 Gluco-D ++‖ were descriptive, that cannot save the marks ―Prolyte
 Gluco-C ++‖ or ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ themselves from the taint of
 infringement. 64.3 There is another aspect of the matter. Mr. Sibal's contention,
 predicated on Section 30(2)(a) is not restricted to the ―Gluco-C‖ and
 ―Gluco-D‖ parts of the defendants' mark, but extends to ―Gluco-C
 ++‖ and ―Gluco-D ++‖. His contention is that the two ++s refer to
 calcium and the flavour of the product in each case. Mr. Lall sought
 to disabuse this contention by stating that the presence of calcium and
 the flavour of the product were separately indicated on the packs. I do
 not deem it necessary to enter into this factual controversy. Suffice it
 to state that it cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be held that
 representing calcium and the flavour of the product by two + signs is
 descriptive. Even for this reason, the attempt, of Mr. Sibal, to resort to Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Marks Act must necessarily fail. 64.4 I may note, here, that, on the face of the packs of the
 defendant's products, the following recitals figure: 65.1 Thus, on the aspect of infringement, the defendants' mark
 ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ and ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ prima facie infringe
 the plaintiff's registered marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖
 respectively. The submission of Mr. Sibal that the marks ―GLUCON-
 C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ were not entitled to registration by virtue of Section 9(1)(a) and 9(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act does not, prima
 facie, merit acceptance. The defendants are also not entitled to the
 benefit of Section 30(2)(a) . 66. Re: Passing off Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 138 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51 66.1 In view of my finding, hereinabove, that the trade dress of the
 defendants' product cannot be treated as deceptively similar to that of
 the plaintiff, insofar as a customer of average intelligence and
 imperfect recollection is concerned, the allegation of passing off,
 levelled by the plaintiff against the defendants, cannot, prima facie,
 sustain. The differences in the trade dresses and appearance of the
 packs of the plaintiff's GLUCON-D and the defendants' Gluco-C, or
 Gluco-D, are sufficient to negative, at a prima facie stage at least, any
 possibility of the defendants being able to pass off their product as that
 of the plaintiff. Equally, it cannot be said that, by using the mark
 ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ or ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ in conjunction with a
 trade dress which is not deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff, the
 defendants are seeking to pass off its product as that of the plaintiff.
 The fact that, on the face of the product of the defendants, the
 defendants' identity ―Cipla Health Care‖ is also depicted is an
 additional factor in that regard. 66.2 The allegation of passing off, therefore, prima facie, cannot
 sustain. Conclusion 67. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the plaintiff would be
 entitled to an injunction against the use, by the defendants, of the mark
 ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ or ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖, as they infringe the
 plaintiff's registered mark ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖
 respectively. 68. Accordingly, pending disposal of the suit, the defendants as
 well as all others acting on their behalf shall stand restrained from
 using the marks ―Gluco-C‖ or ―Gluco-D‖ either by themselves or as
 part of the marks ―Prolyte Gluco-C ++‖ or ―Prolyte Gluco-D ++‖ or as
 part of any other mark which would be deceptively similar to the
 plaintiff's registered marks ―GLUCON-C‖ or ―GLUCON-D‖
 respectively, in respect of any product which is identical or allied to
 the products in respect of which the plaintiff uses the registered trade
 marks ―GLUCON-C‖ and ―GLUCON-D‖ respectively. 69. The application stands allowed to the aforesaid extent. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. JULY 3, 2023
 dsn Signature Not Verified Signed By:SUNIL CS (COMM) 115/2023 Page 140 of 140 SINGH NEGI Signing Date:03.07.2023 15:35:51