(per Hon'ble Sri Justice P.Naveen Rao)

 The Commissioner of Police & Additional District Magistrate

(Executive), Hyderabad, in exercise of power under Section 3(2) of

"The Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot-leggers,

Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders,

Land-Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders,

Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document

Offenders, Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive

Substances Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and

White Collar of Financial Offenders Act, 1986 (Act No.1 of 1986),

passed orders of detention dated 26.03.2021. The Commissioner

holds that the detenu has been committing series of offences of

theft of cell phones and cash from the passengers travelling in

sharing auto-rickshaws and theft of two wheeler vehicles in the

limits of Hyderabad and Cyberabad Police Commissionerate along

with his associates, in an organized manner, creating large scale

fear and panic among the general public affecting the public order.

The Government accorded approval to the said detention order.

The Advisory Board reviewed the case on 17.05.2021 and affirmed

the decision to detain. Based on the said report of the Advisory

Board, the Government passed orders of confirmation of detention

under Section 12(1) read with Section 13 of the Act No.1 of 1986,

valid for a period of 12 months from the date of detention i.e.,
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 -4- 16.04.2021. Petitioner, who is the mother of the detenu, assails

the said order of detention. 2. Heard Ms. Bibi Ayesha Mohammed, learned counsel for

petitioner and the learned Government Pleader appearing for

learned Additional Advocate General for respondents. 3. Learned counsel for petitioner contends that the offences

alleged against the detenu are only minor offences under Indian

Penal Code , and merely because five crimes were registered against

him and merely because he is categorized as 'goonda', is no ground

to resort to preventive detention. The offences alleged against the

detenu are crimes against the individuals. They are only affecting

the 'law and order' and in no manner they affect the public order.

Against his arrest, detenu approached the competent criminal

Court and on due assessment of material on record, criminal Court

granted bail. After release on bail, he was not involved in any

further crime and, therefore, based on the alleged offences the

Commissioner of Police ought not to have exercised the

extraordinary power of detention. He further submits that

detention order was passed against one Mr.Syed Sahil on the

ground of involvement in the crimes of kidnapping a baby girl,

theft of cell phones and cash from the passengers travelling in

sharing auto-rickshaws and two of the crimes are same. Against

the order of detention of Mr.Syed Sahil, W.P.No.14323 of 2021 was

filed and this Court allowed the said writ petition setting aside the

order of detention. 4. Though learned Government Pleader does not dispute the

judgment rendered by this Court in W.P.No.14323 of 2021 setting
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 -5- aside the detention, he submits that said detenu was involved in

three crimes, whereas the detenue herein involved in five crimes

and is classified as 'goonda'. Therefore, detenu is not entitled to the

same relief as granted in W.P.No.14323 of 2021. As the detenu is

habituated in committing crimes of theft of mobile phones, cash

and two wheelers, causing lot of hardship and suffering to the

innocents, his enlargement would affect the public order. 5. From the detention order, it is clear that Crime No.31 of

2020 registered in Raidurgam Police Station, Crime No.8 of 2020

registered in Kachiguda Police Station and Crime No.1157 of 2020

registered in Rajendranagar Police Station are under Section 379 IPC alleging theft of two wheeler motorcycles. In Crime No.11 of

2021 registered in Mailardevpally Police Station under Sections

379 and 411 IPC, it is alleged that detenu boarded an auto-

rickshaw at Aramghar cross roads and on the way detenu and his

associates committed theft of cell phone and cash of Rs.2,000/-

from the complainant by diverting his attention under the guise of

seat adjustment; in Crime No.2 of 2021 was registered in Langer

House Police Station under Sections 379 and 420 IPC, it is alleged

that detenu along with his associates were travelling in sharing

auto-rickshaw and cheated the passenger boarded at Kishanbagh,

committed theft of cell phone by diverting his attention under the

guise of seat adjustment. 6. The issue for consideration is whether in the facts of the

case preventive detention of detenu is valid ? 7. Resort to preventively detain a person is made when the

detaining authority assumes that allowing the person to be free
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 -6- keeping the detenu may adversely affect or likely to adversely affect

the maintenance of public order. Preventive detention of a person

is an extreme measure impinging a citizen's right to life and liberty.

Law enforcing agency can resort to such extreme measure only

when the conduct of detenu affects or is likely to affect

maintenance of public order and ordinary law enforcing

mechanism is not sufficient to prevent such person from indulging

in illegal activities. It being an extreme measure, the law enabling

such power has to be strictly construed. The writ Court has to

keep eternal vigilance to ensure right to life and liberty is not

affected by State resorting to illegal means. The Court is reminded

of the fact that resort to preventive detention is on the allegation of

involvement in alleged crime(s) as assessed by the detaining

authority, which is/are yet to be proved. It is in the realm of

speculation. The Court is required to see whether procedural

safeguards are strictly complied before detaining a person. What is

paramount to note is whether the offence(s) complained of against

detenu is/are of a nature which can be dealt with under the

ordinary law of the land. If the answer is yes, the detention order

is ex facie illegal. 8. It is apt to note the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in I.R. Coelho Vs State of Tamil Nadu1 . They read as

under: 991, 999). The learned Chief Justice held that Parts III and IV together
constitute the core of commitment to social revolution and they, together,
are the conscience of the Constitution. It is to be traced for a deep
understanding of the scheme of the Indian Constitution. The goals set
out in Part IV have, therefore, to be achieved without the abrogation of
the means provided for by Part III. It is in this sense that Parts III and IV
together constitute the core of our Constitution and combine to form its
conscience. "Anything that destroys the balance between the two parts
will ipso facto destroy an essential element of the basic structure of our
Constitution." (emphasis supplied) (Minerva Mills [(1980) 3 SCC 625] ,
SCC p. 654, para 57.) Further observes the learned Chief Justice, that
the matters have to be decided not by metaphysical subtlety, nor as a
matter of semantics, but by a broad and liberal approach. We must not
miss the wood for the trees. A total deprivation of fundamental rights,
even in a limited area, can amount to abrogation of a fundamental right
just as partial deprivation in every area can. The observations made in
the context of Article 31-C have equal and full force for deciding the
questions in these matters. Again the observations made in para 70 (SCC
p. 659) are very relevant for our purposes. It has been observed that
(Minerva Mills case [(1980) 3 SCC 625] , para 70, p. 659)

 "[I]f by a constitutional amendment, the application of Articles 14 and 19 is withdrawn from a defined field of
 legislative activity, which is reasonably in public interest,
 the basic framework of the Constitution may remain
 unimpaired. But if the protection of those articles is
 withdrawn in respect of an uncatalogued variety of laws,
 fundamental freedoms will become a 'parchment in a
 glass case' to be viewed as a matter of historical
 curiosity." These observations are very apt for deciding the extent and scope
of judicial review in cases wherein entire Part III, including Articles 14 ,
19 , 20 , 21 and 32 , stand excluded without any yardstick. ............. 109. Dealing with Articles 14 , 19 and 21 in Minerva Mills case [(1980) 3
SCC 625] it was said that these clearly form part of the basic structure of
the Constitution and cannot be abrogated. It was observed that three
articles of our Constitution, and only three, stand between the heaven of
freedom into which Tagore wanted his country to awake and the abyss of
unrestrained power. These articles stand on altogether different footing.
Can it be said, after the evolution of the basic structure doctrine, that
exclusion of these rights at Parliament's will without any standard,
cannot be subjected to judicial scrutiny as a result of the bar created by Article 31-B? The obvious answer has to be in the negative. If some of the
fundamental rights constitute a basic structure, it would not be open to
immunise those legislations from full judicial scrutiny either on the
ground that the fundamental rights are not part of the basic structure or
on the ground that Part III provisions are not available as a result of
immunity granted by Article 31-B. It cannot be held that essence of the
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 -8- principle behind Article 14 is not part of the basic structure. In fact,
 essence or principle of the right or nature of violation is more important
 than the equality in the abstract or formal sense. The majority opinion in
 Kesavananda Bharati case [(1973) 4 SCC 225] clearly is that the
 principles behind fundamental rights are part of the basic structure of
 the Constitution. It is necessary to always bear in mind that fundamental
 rights have been considered to be heart and soul of the Constitution.
 Rather these rights have been further defined and redefined through
 various trials having regard to various experiences and some attempts to
 invade and nullify these rights. The fundamental rights are deeply
 interconnected. Each supports and strengthens the work of the others.
 The Constitution is a living document, its interpretation may change as
 the time and circumstances change to keep pace with it. This is the ratio
 of the decision in Indira Gandhi case [1975 Supp SCC 1]." 9. In Rekha Vs State of Tamil Nadu2 , the Hon'ble Supreme

Court guides the High Courts on how to deal with cases of

preventive detention. The Supreme Court held: 10. In catena of decisions, the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this

Court considered what is meant by 'law and order', 'public order'

and 'security of State'. Leading case on the subject is Ram

Manohar Lohia vs. State of Bihar3 . It was a case of detention

under the Defense of India Rules. Hon'ble Supreme Court held as

under: 11. In Banka Sneha Sheela Vs. The State of Telangana4 , the

detenu was detained on 28.09.2020 alleging that he was involved

in five crimes committed between October, 2017 to December,

2019 attracting Sections 420 , 406 and 506 of IPC. It was alleged

that he was luring general public to invest money with an

assurance of 100% return within a short period.

11.1. After taking note of law declared by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Ram Manohar Lohia (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held,

 "15. There can be no doubt that for 'public order' to be disturbed, there
 must in turn be public disorder. Mere contravention of law such as
 indulging in cheating or criminal breach of trust certainly affects 'law and 4 2021 SCC Online SC 530 (Crl.A.No.733 of 2021),
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 - 10 - order' but before it can be said to affect 'public order', it must affect the
 community or the public at large. 16. There can be no doubt that what is alleged in the five FIRs pertain to
 the realm of 'law and order' in that various acts of cheating are ascribed to
 the Detenu which are punishable under the three sections of the Penal
 Code, 1860 set out in the five FIRs. A close reading of the Detention Order
 would make it clear that the reason for the said Order is not any
 apprehension of widespread public harm, danger or alarm but is only
 because the Detenu was successful in obtaining anticipatory bail/bail from
 the Courts in each of the five FIRs. If a person is granted anticipatory
 bail/bail wrongly, there are well-known remedies in the ordinary law to take
 care of the situation. The State can always appeal against the bail order
 granted and/or apply for cancellation of bail. The mere successful obtaining
 of anticipatory bail/bail orders being the real ground for detaining the
 Detenu, there can be no doubt that the harm, danger or alarm or feeling of
 security among the general public spoken of in Section 2(a) of the
 Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act is make believe and totally
 absent in the facts of the present case." 11.2. Taking note of the judgment in Madhu Limaye vs. Sub-

Divisional Magistrate5 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held,

 " 20. To tear these observations out of context would be fraught with great
 danger when it comes to the liberty of a citizen under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. The reason for not adopting a narrow meaning of
 'public order' in that case was because of the expression "in the interests of" continue to cheat gullible persons. This may be a good ground to appeal
 against the bail orders granted and/or to cancel bail, but certainly cannot
 provide springboard to move under a preventive detention statue. ......" 12. In Vijay Narin Singh vs State of Bihar6 , the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held,

 "32. ...It is well settled that the law of preventive detention is a hard law
 and therefore it should be strictly construed. Care should be taken that the
 liberty of a person is not jeopardized unless his case falls squarely within
 the four corners of the relevant law. The law of preventive detention should
 not be used merely to clip the wings of an accused who is involved in a
 criminal prosecution. It is not intended for the purpose of keeping a
 man under detention when under ordinary criminal law it may not be
 possible to resist the issue of orders of bail, unless the material
 available is such as would satisfy the requirements of the legal
 provisions authorizing such detention. When a person is enlarged on
 bail by a competent criminal court, great caution should be exercised
 in scrutinizing the validity of an order of preventive detention which
 is based on the very same charge which is to be tried by the criminal
 court." (emphasis supplied) 13. In the case on hand, out of five crimes, three crimes relate to

theft of two wheeler motorcycles and two crimes relate to theft of

cell phones, in addition, in one crime theft of cash is also alleged.

These are normal law and order crimes, which require

investigation, filing of final report and to prosecute them before the

jurisdictional criminal Court. It cannot be said that the crimes

registered against petitioner inevitably lead to a harm, danger or

alarm or feeling of insecurity among the general public or any

section thereof [Banka Sneha Sheela]. By very nature committing

of such crimes does not affect in any manner the public order. 14. If the detaining authority apprehends that since the detenu

was released on bail, there would be imminent possibility of his

committing similar offences, nothing prevented the detaining 6 (1984) 3 SCC 14
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 - 12 - authority in seeking cancellation of the bail. Since criminal law is

set in motion against the detenu, the same shall be taken to logical

end. No justification is made out to resort to extraordinary power

of preventive detention. 15. This Court allowed the Writ Petition No.14323 of 2021

setting aside the detention of co-accused in two out of the five

crimes registered against this detenu. Those two crimes relate to

theft of mobile phones in shared auto-rickshaws. 16. For the aforesaid reasons, the order of detention is not

sustainable and the same is accordingly set aside. Writ Petition is

allowed and the respondents are directed to set the detenu,

namely, Shaik Mahamood @ Guddu s/o. Shaik Ismail, r/o.near

Osmania Hotel, Wade-e-Mahabooba, Shaheen Nagar, Saroornagar,

Ranga Reddy district, n/o. Maharashtra State, at liberty forthwith,

if he is no longer required in any other criminal case. Pending

miscellaneous petitions if any shall stand closed. __________________________
 JUSTICE P.NAVEEN RAO

 __________________________
 JUSTICE P.SREE SUDHA
Date: 16.11.2021

Note: Issue C.C. forthwith. (b/o.)
 kkm
 PNR,J & PSS,J WP No.16921 of 2021 - 13 - HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE P.NAVEEN RAO
 &
 HONOURABLE SMT JUSTICE P.SREE SUDHA

 WRIT PETITION No.16921 of 2021

 Date: 16.11.2021
KKM