Rajesh Kumar Das aged about 16 years, son of Prakash Das,
resident of village- Kokribank (Konkaribank), P.O & P.S:- Jasidih,
District:- Deoghar, represented through his natural guardian and
father of the petitioner namely Prakash Das son of Sri Shivan
Das, resident of village:- Konkaribank (Kokribank), P.O & P.S:- 2. As per the F.I.R, it is alleged that on 09.09.2024 at about 1 11:00 A.M, the informant namely Sandeep Kumar Bhagat i.e. S.I
of Deoghar (Cyber) Police Station has received the secret
information that the petitioner has cheated the several people
online through PhonePe and forged Customer Care Officer. It is
further alleged that the petitioner came to village Raidih, Musha
Tola, near the Bricks Bhathah for the purpose of cyber cheating.
Thereafter, the informant lodged Sanha bearing Sanha No. 09 of
2024 dated 09.09.2024 at about 11:00 A.M and informed higher
police officials for the confirmation of information and then, the
informant constituted a raiding team and came to Jasidih Police
Station. Thereafter, the police team apprehended the petitioner
with the help of Officer-in-Charge, Jasidih Police Station and
during course of search one (01) mobile phone of deep blue
colour Redmi android mobile along with SIMs bearing phone
no. 6201767618 and 9229122892 were recovered from the
possession of the petitioner in presence of the witnesses. 3. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and learned
counsel for the State. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the
impugned judgment and order passed by the learned Appellate
Court and Juvenile Justice Board, Deoghar are illegal, arbitrary
and not sustainable in the eye of law. It is submitted that the
juvenile petitioner is innocent and has falsely implicated in this
case. It is submitted that no incriminating articles have been
recovered from the possession of the petitioner. It is submitted
that no one has made any complaint against the petitioner
regarding any illegal transaction or transfer of money in his
account. It is submitted that the I.O has not collected any legal
materials against the petitioner. It is submitted that the father of
the petitioner is a natural guardian and he has given undertaking 2 to guide properly to the juvenile petitioner and he is also ready
and willing to maintain and take care of the juvenile petitioner
properly. It is submitted that there is no adverse remark against
the petitioner in the Social Investigation Report submitted by the
Probation Officer. It is further submitted that the juvenile
petitioner has no criminal antecedent and the juvenile petitioner is
in custody since 09.09.2024 and hence, the juvenile petitioner
may be enlarged on bail. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State has
opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that juvenile petitioner
has already confessed his involvement in cheating and cyber
crime which is evident from the confessional statement of the
petitioner. It is further submitted that the several witnesses, as
mentioned in the case diary, have supported the allegations and
seizure of incriminating articles from the petitioner. It is
submitted that several mobile sims were recovered and seized
from the possession of the petitioner from which the petitioner
has made call to random numbers for call snooping/mobile
phishing. It is further submitted that two victims have been traced
out, who have given statement that they have been cheated of
Rs. 15,000/- and Rs. 4770/- respectively through the mobile sim
no. 6201767618 which was recovered and seized from the
juvenile petitioner. It is submitted that the petitioner has one
criminal antecedent of similar nature and hence, the prayer for
bail of the juvenile petitioner may be rejected. 6. Perused the F.I.R, Lower Court Records of this case and
considered the submissions of learned counsel for both the sides. 7. It appears that the juvenile petitioner has named in the
F.I.R for committing cyber fraud. 8. From perusal of the impugned judgment passed by the 3 learned Court below, it appears that the bail of the juvenile
petitioner was rejected on the ground that the complaints were
found registered against the mobile number recovered from the
possession of the petitioner and at that time, investigation of the
police was going on. 9. Learned Appellate Court has also observed that the release
of the petitioner on bail would expose him to moral, physical and
psychological danger. 10. From the submission made by the learned counsel for the
State, it appears that the petitioner had cheated two victims for a
sum of Rs. 15,000/- and Rs. 4770/- respectively. 11. It also appears that the petitioner is also in custody since
09.09.2024 and has been remanded in this case on 10.09.2024. 12. Considering the custody of the juvenile petitioner and also
considering the fact and circumstances of this case, the juvenile
petitioner namely Rajesh Kumar Das is directed to be released in
care and custody of his father on bail on furnishing his bail bonds
of Rs. 20,000/- with two sureties of the like amount each to the
satisfaction of learned Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice
Board, Deoghar in connection with Deoghar Cyber P.S Case No.
93 of 2024 (corresponding to Inquiry No. 205 of 2024) subject to
the condition that one of the bailors must be the blood relation of
the petitioner and the juvenile may be handed over in custody of
his father, and the father shall furnish his Aadhar Number and his
Mobile Number before the Court below and shall produce the
petitioner before the learned Court below as and when required
before the learned Court below and subject to the condition that
they will not leave the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts, Deoghar
without prior permission of the learned Court below and also
subject to the condition that the father of the juvenile petitioner 4 shall file an undertaking that the juvenile petitioner will not
 indulges in such type of crime in future, failing which, the
 prosecution will be at liberty to take steps for cancellation of his
 bail. 13. Accordingly, the judgment dated 01.11.2024 passed by Sri
 Rajeev Ranjan, learned Vacation Judge-cum-Children Court,
 Deoghar and the order dated 30.09.2024 passed by learned
 Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Deoghar in
 connection with Deoghar Cyber P.S Case No. 93 of 2024
 (corresponding to Inquiry No. 205 of 2024) are set aside. 14. Thus, Cr. Revision No. 1202 of 2024 is allowed. 15. Let a copy of this order be sent to the Superintendent of
 Police, Deoghar. (Sanjay Prasad, J.)
Avinash/ 5