(Cause title taken from Case Information System)

 For Applicant : Mr. Manoj Paranjpe, Advocate with Mr.
 Shobhit Koshta, Advocate

 For Respondent/ED : Dr. Saurabh Kumar Pande, Advocate

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Ravindra Kumar Agrawal
 C.A.V. Order 1. This is first bail application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of

 the Cr.P.C. read with Sections 45 and 65 of the Prevention of Money
Digitally
signed by Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter called as 'the PMLA, 2002) for
VEDPRAKASH
DEWANGAN 2 grant of regular bail to the applicant who has been arrested on

 22.08.2023 for the offence under Section 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002. 2. The prosecution case in brief is that, an FIR of Crime No. 112/2022

 registered on 29.07.2022 at Police Station Mohan Nagar, Durg (C.G.)

 under Section 4A of the Public Gambling (C.G. Amendment) Act,

 1976, which was registered against five accused persons, namely,

 Alok Singh Rajput, Rampravesh Sahu, Kharag @ Raja Singh,

 Abhishek and Pintu, under Section 4A of the Public Gambling (C.G.

 Amendment) Act, 1976 and Section 420 , 120B of the IPC and also

 for Section 66D of Information Technology Act, 2000. The

 Enforcement Directorate had registered the Enforcement Case

 Information Report (hereinafter referred as 'ECIR') No.

 RPZ0/10/2022. On the secret information gathered by the officers of

 the ED, the raid was conducted on the premises of the accused

 persons in which it was found that a set with a laptop and they were

 collecting money by creating online IDs and through the said IDs they

 were placing bets for others through Mahadev Book, on Online

 cricket matches, horse racing, greyhound racing, kabaddi etc. Upon

 interrogation, the accused persons disclosed the names of two

 persons namely Abhishek and Pintu who taught them to procedure of

 creating the IDs and placing bets in various sports through the

 Mahadev Book. Initially, treating the FIR No. 112/2022 of P.S. Mohan

 Nagar, Durg and final report dated 29.07.2022 as scheduled/

 predicate offence, the respondent ED registered the ECIR No.

 RPZO/09/2022 which was renumbered as ECIR No. RPZ0/10/2022

 vide corrigendum dated 07.11.2022 issued by the ED. 3 *******In the said ECIR, FIR No. 206/2023 dated 02.06.2023

registered at P.S. Cyber Crime Vishakhapatnam Commissionerate,

Andhra Pradesh, FIR No. 37/2023 registered at P.S. Bhilai Bhatti,

District Durg (C.G.), FIR No. 86/2023 dated 27.02.2023 registered at

P.S. Chhawani, District Durg (C.G.), FIR No. 336/2023 dated

10.08.2023 registered at P.S. Gudhiyari, District Raipur (C.G.), FIR

No. 685/2023 dated 11.08.2023 registered at P.S. Khamtarai, District

Raipur (C.G.). The allegation against the accused persons are that

they were collecting money from the punters who intended to put the

bets and deposited the money in bank accounts shared through

whatsapp groups. These persons as per the choice of punters put

their bets on website like Tiger Exchange, Gold-365, Laser-247,

cricketbuzz.com, Play-247.win, skyexchange.com, etc. The money

came through these apps were transferred to different accounts till it

was siphoned off by Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Kapil Chelani

and Satish Kumar, who are residing at Dubai. The other online

betting apps like Lotus-365, Fair Play, Reddy Anna, Laser Book, Bet

Book-247 were also operating countrywide and investigation

revealed that the gambling network work thousands of crores. It also

comes that various bank accounts were opened on the basis of

either forged bank number and Aadhar number or misusing the PAN

and Aadhar Card of daily vendors, which were used in transactions of

illegal money of aforesaid illegal betting apps. It also comes on

record that the illegal money generated from these online betting

apps were given to the bureaucrats and politicians as protection

money to run the aforesaid betting apps freely and without any legal

action by the concerned police authorities and the said amount was 4 circulated through Hawala operation and the present applicant is also

 involved in circulating the money through Hawala operation. The

 applicant has been arrested on 22.08.2023 and prosecution

 complaint has been filed against him. *******On 20.10.2023 when the ED had filed its first prosecution

 complaint under Section 44 read with Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002

 for the offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against 14

 accused persons. On 11.03.2024 the ED had filed its second

 supplementary prosecution complaint in the present ECIR under

 Sections 44 and 45 of the PMLA, 2002 for the offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against three accused persons. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit that the applicant is

 not an accused in the predicate offence as per Public Gambling

 (C.G. Amendment) Act, 1976 . The alleged offence is not a scheduled

 offence. In reply filed by the ED, they have admitted that the

 proceeds of crime are only the money generated from the

 bogus/benami accounts used by the Online Mahadev App. The

 investigating agency has acted most arbitrarily and it had nothing, but

 ill-motivated and mala fide intention to implicate the applicant in

 offence. He is having no connection or association in any way either

 with the affairs of the business of Mahadev online book or has

 received the proceeds of crime. He would further submit that the

 prosecution has failed to establish the link of present applicant with

 the alleged offence. *******He would further submit that the allegation against the present 5 applicant in the prosecution complaint that the promoters of Mahadev

Book App obtained protection of various police and administrative

officers and also the influential political persons to stop legal action

against the criminal act of online betting app for which they given the

protection money to them. A huge amount was paid to them through

Hawala operators who used to arrange the distribution of the said

illegal amount. The present applicant along with Bhim Singh Yadav

and his brother Arvind Singh Yadav who all are in police service have

developed relation with higher police officers. The present applicant

received cash amount from the co-accused Sunil Dammani and

delivered it to the higher officers and politicians in the State. The

present applicant used the money sent by the promoters of Mahadev

Book to invest in various firms and companies started in the name of

his family members. The amount delivered through Sunil Dammani

was collected and delivered through Rahul Vakte and Ritesh Kumar

Yadav. He had a direct nexus with Ravi Uppal who is the Director of

Mahadev Book and it is also the allegation against the present

applicant that he destroyed or concealed the relevant evidence. All

these allegations against the present applicant are without any basis.

*******He would further submit that the applicant is suffering from

schizophrenia and his treatment was continued. The minor son of the

applicant namely Srijan is also suffering from Diplegia CP GMFCS

and he needs constant support in his daily routine. There is no

sufficient material against the applicant for commission of offence

under the PMLA Act, 2002 . The applicant is in jail since 22.08.2023

and till date only prosecution complaint has been filed and even the 6 charges have not been framed and therefore, there is every

possibility of delay in trial. The long period of incarceration and in

view of the violation of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. *******He would also submit that the knowledge and mens rea is an

essential ingredients to establish the offence of money laundering

punishable under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 and the same is

missing in the present case that the applicant had any knowledge or

mens rea that Mahadev Online Book App was using some bogus

bank account for transactions. It is further argued by the learned counsel for the applicant that

ED cannot proceed with the pick and chose method in arraying the

applicant as accused in the present case. Without there being any

sufficient material against the applicant was arrested which is mala

fide. The Money Laundering Act come into only when a scheduled

offence is committed. Running the Mahadev Online Book App is not a

scheduled offence which has been admitted by the ED in its reply

that Mahadev Online Book App is not illegal and scheduled offence

the ED has said that an unauthorized bank account has been opened

which amounts to cheating and forgery and therefore, that is

scheduled offence. There is no reference to any scheduled offence

committed by the applicant. Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002

defines the proceeds of crime and Section 3 defines money

laundering, therefore, there has to be a criminal activity that is

connected with the scheduled offence and if any person generates

some money which will come under the definition of proceed of crime 7 which is defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002, therefore,

the sine qua non is the existence of scheduled offence and the

existence of proceeds of crime generated from the scheduled

offence. The Mahadev Online Book App is not a scheduled offence,

opening of bank account is scheduled offence and therefore, money

generated in terms of Section 2(1)(u) is the money generated from

the bank account. The allegation against the present applicant is that

he received proceeds of crime, but the ED could not identify the

proceeds of crime. Mahadev Online Book App is not a scheduled

offence that has been admitted by the ED. *******He would further submit that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Vijay Madan Lal Choudhary Vs. Union of India, (2022)

SCC Online SC 929 has held that the foundational facts to establish

money laundering criminal activity related to scheduled offence has

been committed, property in question has been derived or obtained

directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity and

the person concerned is directly or indirectly involved in a process or

activity connected with the said property being proceeds of crime. He

would rely upon para 343 of the Vijay Madan Lal Choudhari's case

(supra). ED has failed to demonstrate that the property in question

has been derived or obtained directly or indirectly by the present

applicant as result of that criminal activity as they have failed to prove

any nexus between such proceeds of crime and the applicant. There

is no evidence on record to show that the proceeds of crime

generated through predicated offence have been concealed,

possessed, acquired or used and claimed as untainted property by 8 the applicant. *******The statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002

have been considered as substantive evidence against the present

applicant, whereas, in the matter of Amit Agrawal Vs. Directorate of

Enforcement reported in 2024 SCC Online Delhi 141, the Hon'ble

Delhi High Court has held that the statements made by

co-accused/witness under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002, their

evidentiary value can be tested at the stage of trial. No generation of

proceeds of crime from criminal activity. The bail application of the

applicant in that case was allowed. He would also rely upon another

judgment passed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the matter of Chandra Prakash Khandelwal Vs. Directorate of Enforcement reported in 2023 SCC Online Delhi 1095 and Vijay Agrawal Vs.

Enforcement of Directorate, reported in (2023) 2 SCC Delhi 651.

*******The ED has acted unfairly and arbitrarily to arrest the applicant

without any sufficient ground, whereas, the other persons having

similar allegation with that of the present applicant have neither been

made as accused nor been arrested. The ED has miserably failed to

prima facie demonstrate the requisite mens rea in the alleged act of

the applicant to exhibit his knowledge or active participation in any

act with proceeds of crime with respect to the scheduled offence. The

allegation against the present applicant does not indicate any

involvement in the predicate offence or even his knowledge to

constitute the alleged offence, therefore, there are reasonable

grounds to believe that the applicant is not guilty of an offence under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. The applicant has not played any role 9 with respect to the Mahadev Online Book App or with the proceeds of

crime. The present applicant had no role in either the creation or

management of the Mahadev Online Book App or any incidental

activity of online betting. He was neither the main perpetrator of the

crime nor even incidentally connected to the alleged proceeds of

crime generated by the Mahadev App. The allegation against the

applicant made in the complaint dated 11.03.2024 is surrounded by a

cloud of doubt and except for assumptions there is no clinching and

cogent evidence produced by the ED against the applicant that he

has dealt with the proceeds of crime in any manner. *******He would also submit that the co-accused Sunil Dammani has

been granted bail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its order dated

03.10.2024, passed in Criminal Appeal No. 4108 of 2024 and Bhim

Singh Yadav has been granted bail vide order dated 25.10.2024 in

Criminal Appeal No. 4407 of 2024, therefore considering the similar

nature of allegation, the present applicant is also entitled for bail.

*******The appellant is to abide by all the conditions which may

imposed by the Hon'ble Court while granting bail to him with the

undertaking that he will not tamper with any evidence or to influence

any witness of the case. The investigation against the present

applicant has been completed and a complaint case has already

been filed before the learned trial Court. He is ready to deposit his

passport and to comply any other condition imposed by this Hon'ble

Court. *******In support of his submissions, he would rely upon the judgment 10 passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI

 and another , ( 2022) 10 SCC 51, P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of

 Enforcement , ( 2020) 13 SCC 791, Sanjay Chandra v. CBI , (2012) 1

 SCC 40, Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, order

 dated 12.07.2024 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 2493 of 2024,

 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine

 SC 1920, Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 1 SCC 676,

 Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., 1994 Cr.L.J. 1981 and submitted

 that looking to the period of his custody, he is cooperative during the

 entire investigation and there is no possibility of tampering with the

 witnesses or document as the investigation has already been

 completed. Therefore, the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/Directorate of

 Enforcement, apart from the reply in writing submitted to the

 application by them has opposed the arguments made by learned

 counsel for the applicant and submitted that an ECIR bearing No.

 RPZO/10/2022 is recorded against Mahadev Online book to

 investigate the matter under the PMLA, Act 2002 on the basis of

 charge sheet No.157/2022 dated 29.07.2022 filed by police station

 Mohan Nagar, District Durg against Alok Singh Rajput, Rampravesh

 Sahu, Kharag @ Raja Singh and others for the offence under Section

 120B and 420 of the IPC alleging in it that the accused persons are

 involved in online betting in live ludo, football, casino game and amass

 through Mahadev book. On being secret information, the raid was

 conducted and aforesaid accused persons were taken into custody who

 had prepared a set-up with laptops by which they collected money by 11 creating an Online ID and then the said money was put in bet for others

through Mahadev Online book on online cricket match, horse racing,

greyhound racing and Kabaddi etc. Various laptops, mobile phones,

passbooks of various banks, debit/credit cards, sim cards, cheque

books and cash were seized from the premises and an investigation

under the PMLA, 2002 was undertaken after recording of the ECIR.

During the course of the investigation, it came into knowledge that

various FIRs have also been registered all over the country for illegal

online betting through Mahadev book and one of the FIRs of Crime

No.206/2023 dated 02.06.2023 was registered by Andhra Pradesh

police, P.S. Cyber Crime, Vishakhapatnam Commissionerate for the

offence under Section 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 read with Section 34 of the IPC, 66C, 66 D of Information Technology Act, 2000 and Section 3 and 4 of Andhra Pradesh Gambling Act. The Andhra Pradesh Police has further come to the knowledge

that 21 persons were running call centres for the operation of the

Mahadev App. and they were collecting money from punters who

intended to put bets and deposited the money in bank accounts

shared through WhatsApp groups. Those persons put their bets on

websites like Tiger Exchange, Gold 365, Lesser 247,

cricketbuzz.com, and Play 247.win, skyexchange.com and Cricket

bet9.com. The money made from the said app was transferred to

different bank accounts till it was siphoned to a person named

Sourabh Chandrakar who lives in Dubai. The Govt. has blocked the

illegal betting website Mahadev Book. It also comes into knowledge

that Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Kapil Chelani and Satish 12 Kumar who are also residing in Dubai, are known to operate close to

60 illegal offshore gambling websites such as Lotus 365, Fair Play,

Reddy Anna, Lesser Book, Tiger Exchange, Bad book 247 and Gold 365. Several cases relating to fraud and illegal activities have been

registered against Sourabh Chandrakar. Various FIRs have been

registered against various individuals for being involved in illegal

betting operations through the Mahadev book app and those FIRs

are at P.S. Gudhiyari, Raipur, P.S. Bhilai Bhatthi, District Durg, P.S.

Khamtarai, Raipur etc. The FIR of Crime No. 6/2024 registered by

EOW, Raipur C.G. for the offence under Section 120B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the IPC and Section 7 and 11 of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended on 2018) registered against

Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Shubham Soni, Harishankar

Tibrewal and others for being involved in betting operations through

Mahadev Online book, Sky Exchange and other betting apps. The

FIR No. 206/2020 registered in the Burtola P.S., Kolkata, West

Bengal for the offence under Section 120B and 420 of the IPC and

Section 3 and 4 of the West Bengal Price and Cheat Company Act

has also been registered against Harishankar Tibrewal, Suraj

Chokhani and others for being engaged in online betting. He would further submit that Mahadev's online book provides

an online platform for illegal betting in different live games like cricket,

badminton, tennis, football etc. and also provides facilities for playing

a number of card games like teen patti, poker, dragon tiger, virtual

cricket game etc.

 To create an appearance of genuineness for this illegal betting 13 racket Mahadev Online Book the promoters have a company

registered in the name M/s Mahadev Book Market Limited in the

country of Sent Vincent and the Grenadines under the directorship in

the name of Shubham Soni who is part of top management of

Mahadev Online book. Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal are the

main promoters and beneficiary owners of this betting syndicate. The

Mahadev online book operates from abroad and provides WhatsApp

contact numbers on the websites. Once a user contacts the number,

he will be provided two separate contact numbers. One contact

number is to be utilized for depositing money and collecting points in

IDs and the second number is for contacting the website to encash

points accumulated in the designated IDs. The IDs are generally

created on multiple websites depending on the needs and

preferences of the betters. The betting app is operated by various

panels/branches which are sold by the promoters and they keep 70-

75% of the profit of the panel operations. A panel has an owner and

workers normally four in number. One person can own multiple

panels. The office of promoters in Dubai is commonly known as the

head office by the panel owners and the said panel owners can

create user profiles of players/punters. The panel operators are

allotted fixed credits which can be transferred to any player/punter

and credits are allocated to the players against payments in

designated bank accounts. The players/punters who want to play

online betting through Mahadev Book via WhatsApp number given on

the website of Mahadev Book then head office refers these

players/punters to the panel. After receiving the details of the panel

the players/punters deposit a minimum amount of Rs.100/- with no 14 maximum amount for online betting. The panel owners receive the

funds from customers into benami bank accounts which are arranged

by the panel owners. These bank accounts are either opened

fraudulently or loaned for commission. Thousands of employees are

working in the call centre in Dubai which operates multiple WhatsApp

groups for each panel. Weekly account sheets are shared with the

panel owners by head office which contain statements of all bets,

total profit or total loss. The panel owners are supposed to remit the

shares of the Mahadev head office via hawala routs on a regular

basis. During the course of the investigation, the bank account

statements of various bank accounts gathered through intelligence

were called for. After analysing the said bank accounts trends of

funds have led ED to the doorstep of multiple entities that either remit

money outside India or withdraw it as cash. It is suspected that

thousands of crores of illegal betting proceeds which are nothing but

proceeds of crime have been remitted outside India. The promoters

of the Mahadev online book have also set up mini-companies in

Dubai to route money and also to facilitate Visa services to the staff

of the Mahadev online book working there. It was also found that the

present applicant who is the police authority in the State Police

Service received the illegal amount of the proceeds of crime to pay

protection money to the higher police authorities/bureaucrats and

politicians for smooth running of their illegal betting app and to

protect them from any legal action and the present applicant

collected the money from Hawala operations to pay it to the higher 15 police authorities/bureaucrats and politicians. Considering the role played by the present applicant

Chandrabhushan Verma in commission of offence of money

laundering under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002, he was arrested on

22.08.2023. The prosecution complaint has already been filed

against the present application at Special Court, PMLA Raipur. It is

further submitted by learned counsel for the respondent that the ED

has identified the proceeds of crime and its realization by the betting

syndicate. The proceeds in question were being generated by the

Mahadev Online Book through various bogus/benami bank accounts.

The illegal funds belonging to Mahadev Online Book is transferred

through bogus/benami bank accounts which is the proceeds of crime

as per Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002. From the material collected

during the investigation, it has also been identified that the amount

generated from Mahadev Online Book has been utilized in

purchasing immovable properties, investing in the Indian share

market, organizing star-studded events, payments of liaisoning

money for smooth betting operations, investment in bitcoin USDT,

acquiring business of competitors etc.

*******There is every chance of the applicant seeking to defeat the

process of law in India. There is every possibility of tempering with

the witnesses and evidence of the case. Further relying upon the

judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Gurvinder Singh

Vs. State of Punjab in the order dated 07.02.2024 passed in CRA

No.704/2024 submitted that the trial proceeding of the case will take

time and cannot be a ground to grant bail. He would further submit 16 that there is sufficient evidence against the present applicant which

 prima facie establishes his involvement in the offence in question and

 in view of the nature of the offence, the applicant is not entitled to

 grant of bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

 available on record. 6. For consideration of the bail application under PMLA, 2002 the Court

 need not go deep inside the merits of the case but should consider

 the prima facie material against the accused in the case. The Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary case

 (supra) has observed in para 401 of its judgment that:- 7. In the case of Satish Jaggi Vs. State of Chhattisgarh , (2007) 11

 SCC 195, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "at the stage of

 granting of bail, the Court can only go into the question of prima facie

 case established for granting bail, it cannot go into the question of

 credibility and reliability of witnesses put up by the prosecution. The

 question of credibility and reliability of prosecution witnesses can only

 be tested during trial." 8. The Delhi High Court in its order dated 07.03.2024 passed in Bail

 Application No.3807/2022 ( Sanjay Jain Vs. Enforcement

 Directorate ) after relying upon the observations made in the case of

 Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (Supra) has observed in para 49 that:- 9. In the present case, from the material collected during the

 investigation, it reveals that the present applicant who was working

 as Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police has played role in providing

 protection money to higher police officers and politicians for smooth

 running of Mahadev Book App in the State of Chhattisgarh. He has

 become the link between the promoters of Mahadev Book, who are

 at Dubai and the powers to be in the Chhattisgarh. The said illegal

 money was regularly sent through Hawala operations from Dubai

 through Anil Dammani and Sunil Dammani to the present applicant

 for his own and to distribute amongst bureaucrats, higher police

 authorities and politicians. He himself has admitted his role in his

 statement. From the evidence collected during the investigation it

 also reveals that the present applicant is also associated with Jasiph,

 Ritesh, Bhim Singh, Arjun Yadav, Vijay Pandey, Prashant Tripathi and

 Sahadev Yadav, who used to collect the amount transferred by Ravi

 Uppal through Hawala and delivered it within the State of

 Chhattisgarh to various persons as aforesaid. The applicant being an

 police official of the State would be well aware of the betting

 operations undertaken through Mahadev Book are illegal and the

 funds made available to him by Ravi Uppal through Hawala are the 19 proceeds of crime. Despite that he willingly involved himself in money

 laundering activities. Further, the present applicant set up various

 firms either in the name of his family members or his relatives for the

 purposes to justify the bogus transactions through the said firms to

 launder the proceeds of crime acquired by him. It was also revealed

 that the present applicant has engaged in providing cash to various

 Rice Millers in lieu of bank entries of these firms without there being

 any actual transaction of food grains. It also reveals that in the

 financial year 2022-23, the bank account number 39642058577 run

 by M/s. Srijan Associates had received 6.7 Crores, the bank account

 number 39946378820 run by M/s. Aditya Trading Company had

 received Rs. 6.78 Crores approx in the bank account. 10. The criminal activity of opening bogus/benami bank accounts and

 utilizing them for illegal online betting therefore the illegal funds

 belonging to Mahadev Online Book being transferred through the

 bogus bank account is the proceeds of crime as defined under Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002. The digital record seized in the case

 and from the statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA,

 2002 clearly establishes the link of the present applicant with the

 illegal betting website Sky Exchange and the generation of proceeds

 of crime through it. 11. The proceeds of crime have been defined under Section 2(1)(u) of

 the PMLA, 2002 which reads as under:- 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan

 Reddy Vs. CBI , reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439 has held in para 34

 and 35 of its judgment that- 13. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary

 (supra) has observed in para 398 as under :- 14. Having considered the rival submissions made by respective parties,

 as also from the material produced in the present case, it is not

 acceptable that the present applicant did not know about the

 transactions of Mahadev online book and the money obtained by

 him. Denial by the applicant itself is not sufficient to consider prima

 facie that there is no mens rea of the applicant for the said offence

 under the PMLA Act, 2002 . Although the statements are required to

 be tested at the time of trial, but for the purpose of consideration of

 bail application, the statements and other documents as well as

 electronic evidence are relevant for consideration of bail application

 of the applicant. Though the co-accused Sunil Dammani and Bhim

 Singh Yadav have been granted bail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

 but the allegation against the present applicant is different than the

 other accused persons, therefore, no benefit could be extended to

 the applicant by the same. 15. As has been discussed hereinabove, it cannot be said that there is

 no involvement of the applicant in the offence in question.

 Considering the role of the applicant in the ensuing money

 laundering case of proceeds of crime in Mahadev Book App, it is

 found that, there is sufficient evidence collected by the respondent-

 Enforcement Directorate to prima facie show the involvement of the

 applicant in the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. It is an organized crime having various

 facets of its complexion, therefore, further considering the provisions

 of Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 this Court is satisfied that there are

 reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant is involved in the

 offence and he is likely to commit any other offence while on bail, I

 am not inclined to grant bail to the applicant. 16. Consequently, the present bail application filed by the applicant- Chandrabhushan Verma is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge
ved