% 28.07.2025 1. Applicant herein seeks anticipatory bail in case FIR no. 40/2024
 under Sections 419 / 420 / 120B of the IPC, registered at P.S. Cyber Police
 Station, Central. Before approaching this court, his anticipatory bail
 application was dismissed vide an order dated 05.03.2025 by the learned
 ASJ, West District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi. 2. Matter was earlier heard by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court and the
 applicant was granted interim protection vide an order dated 28.04.2025,
 being relevant same is reproduced herein below: 3. Per FIR allegations, one Puneet Chaudhary, a businessman from New BAIL APPLN. 1600/2025 Page 1 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:36:07
 Delhi, received a call from a person claiming to represent Groww Company,
 inviting him to join a WhatsApp group focused on stock market investment
 education. After joining, he was introduced to an E-TRADES platform
 where he was asked to deposit money into various bank accounts to invest in
 stocks and IPOs. 3.1. Between May 29 and June 7, 2024, Puneet transferred a total of ₹20.7
 lakhs across multiple bank accounts, believing the platform was legitimate
 based on positive stock tips and assurances about escrow compliance. He
 later realized the platform was fraudulent when discrepancies arose,
 including suspicious changes in beneficiary accounts and misleading
 information about the company's official address. Puneet filed a complaint
 with the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal. Investigation of his bank
 accounts confirmed the funds were transferred to two different bank
 accounts, which have multiple fraud complaints registered against them
 perpetrating the financial scam. 4. In the aforesaid backdrop I have heard the rival contentions and perused
 the case file. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is a small
 businessman based in Mumbai and has been named as a co-accused in the
 chargesheet. Counsel contends that the applicant is, in fact, a victim in the
 present case, having been defrauded by one Mr. Imran Jaweri (absconding),
 who allegedly changed the mobile number linked to the applicant's dormant
 bank account without his knowledge. It is further submitted that another co-
 accused, Imran Anwar Khan, has already been granted bail. The applicant
 has no prior criminal record and did not reside with the complainant, as
 emphasized by learned counsel. He further submits that the applicant is BAIL APPLN. 1600/2025 Page 2 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:36:07
 willing to cooperate with the investigation and seeks protection from
 arbitrary arrest, asserting the principle that bail is the rule and jail is the
 exception. 5.1. In support of his plea, counsel relies on Arnesh Kumar v. State of
 Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, arguing that the purpose of bail is to secure the
 accused's appearance at trial by imposing a reasonable bail condition. Bail is
 not intended to be punitive or preventive. Detention should be considered a
 form of punishment only when necessary to ensure the accused's presence at
 trial. The courts, he submits, must give more than mere lip service to the
 principle that punishment should follow conviction, and every individual is
 presumed innocent until proven guilty through due process. 6. Per contra, opposing the bail application, learned APP appearing for
 the respondent/State submits that the applicant voluntarily provided the
 details of his bank account to the co-accused, Imran Anwar Khan, and that a
 commission of ₹3 lakhs was allegedly shared between them. It is further
 contended that the applicant disclosed he had handed over the complete
 banking kit--comprising the internet banking ID, password, cheque book,
 and ATM card--of his bank account to Imran Anwar Khan for the purpose
 of securing a loan. Moreover, the applicant allegedly changed the registered
 mobile number linked to the said account following the instructions of Imran
 Jaweri, who is absconding. The applicant now claims that he does not know
 the current whereabouts of co-accused Imran Jaweri, nor is he aware of the
 transactions totaling ₹2.7 crore that took place in the aforementioned
 account between 30.05.2024 and 10.06.2024 and is this being evasive and
 does not dederve any concession from this court. 7. In response to the Court's query, learned APP submits that following the BAIL APPLN. 1600/2025 Page 3 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:36:07
 interim bail granted to the applicant, he has otherwise joined the
 investigation and cooperated with the Investigating Officer (IO) by
 providing the required information regarding the allegations against him.
 But another accused, Imran Jaweri, is absconding and his whereabouts
 remain unknown. Despite being questioned on this matter, the applicant has
 not been able to provide any information about Imran Jaweri's whereabouts
 to the IO. 8. Pertinently, another co-accused who has been granted bail and one other
 who was bound down, but not arrested due to their cooperation, were both
 similarly unable to provide information regarding the absconding accused's
 location. Consequently, they stand on equal footing with the applicant in this
 regard. 9. Thus, in light of the above, the mere fact that the applicant is likewise
 either unable to provide or is unaware of the whereabouts of the absconding
 co-accused, cannot, at this stage, lead to the presumption that he is not
 cooperating with the investigation. 10. In the premise, the interim bail previously granted to the applicant is
 hereby made absolute. However, IO shall cause formal arrest of the
 applicant and release him on bail on furnishing bail bonds and surety bonds
 to his satisfaction and subject to the conditions/provision contained in section 482(2) of the BNSS. 11. On doing so, the applicant shall also join the investigation and shall
 appear before the Investigating Officer, as and when called to do so and
 would cooperate in the investigation, failing which the State is at liberty to
 approach this Court seeking cancellation of the protection granted to the
 applicant. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:36:07 12. Needless to state that nothing observed hereinabove shall amount to
 an expression on the merits of the case and shall not have a bearing on the
 trial of the case as the same is only for the purpose of the disposal of the
 present bail application. 13. Bail application stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. ARUN MONGA, J
 JULY 28, 2025/akc BAIL APPLN. 1600/2025 Page 5 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:36:07