applicants/accused are facing charges for the offences punishable 

 under Sections 120(B) and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 3 , 5 and 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes 

 (Banning) Act, 1978 and Section 3 of Maharashtra Protection of 

 Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments Act) in C.R. No. 2 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] 316 of 2013 registered with Oshiwara police station, Mumbai. The 

 offence is registered at the instance of one Gurupreetsingh Anand on 

 
 16th August, 2013. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that in the year 2000 one 

 
 Vijay Ishwaran and Joseph, the founders of "QI Group" formed a 

 company under the name and style "Gold Quest International Private 

 
 Limited". The applicants/ accused also joined the said group in 2006. Gold Quest International Private Limited used to sale gold plated coins. In the year 2000 the rate of gold was Rs. 5,000/- per 10 gms., 

 however, they used to sale the gold plated coins for Rs. 30,000/- though the gold was less than 10 gms. Thereafter, the purchaser of 
 

 the gold coin becomes a member of the group. He was required to 

 make more persons as the member of the Gold Quest International 

 Private Limited. On the basis of the number of members which he 

 brings, he was placed to get the commission. So he was supposed to 

 bring minimum two persons and the hierarchy had pyramid structure. So one member treated at the right side and second member was 

 treated on the left side. The volume of the said business after 

 enrollment of new member increases when 1000 units are credited to 3 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] the account of the old member which are treated equivalent to the 

 commission of Rs. 11,500/-. 3. It is the case prosecution that in the year 2003 a fraud was 

 detected and the offence was registered at Chennai against the said 

 
 Gold Quest International Private Limited company. So the owners of 

 the said company repaid everything to the members to whom they 

 
 have promised to pay and the offence was compounded. Hence, the 
 
 first information report was quashed. However, the company 
 
 continued the illegal activities by forming another company by 

 different name i.e. "QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited". They started 
 

 one "Pallava Resorts Private Limited" and also launched various 
 

 products especially the products by name Biodisck, Chi Pendent, 

 Watches, Gold Coins. These products were sold from minimum Rs. 30/- to Rs. 7 lacs. The false representation was made by the company 

 that the said product Biodisk cures diseases. Biodisk is to be kept in 

 the water and due to molecular effect, the quality of the water is 

 changed and if that water is consumed, it will give good result and 

 cures the diseases including like cancer. [email protected] 4. It is the case of the prosecution that the applicant/accused 

 Suresh Thimiri was appointed as Indian head and C.E.O. of QuestNet 

 
 Enterprise (P) Limited and the applicants/accused Michael Ferreira 

 
 and Malcholm Desai had joined the said company in the year 2006 

 and actively participated in the expansion of this company. In 2008 

 
 the offences were registered at Chennai, Andhra Pradesh and 

 Karnataka but the said company continued its activities of chit-fund 

 
 and money laundering till 2012. They stopped the business of 
 
 QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited company but formed a new company 
 
 by name Q Net. Under this brand of Q Net, three companies i.e. 

 Vanmala Hotels, Travels and Tourism Services Private Ltd, Transview 
 

 Enterprises India Private Limited and Vihaan Direct Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. started its business since April, 2012. In the said company, the 

 applicant/accused Malcholm Desai was holding 20% shares and the 

 applicant/accused Michael Ferreira was holding 80% shares. Other 

 two applicants /accused Magaral Balaji and Shinivas Vanka were 

 appointed as Directors of the Vihaan Direct Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. Under 

 the said Vihaan company, they continued the activities of selling the 

 same products of Biodisk, Gold coins, Chi Pendents etc. They 

 established one Pallava Resorts Private Limited and Vanmala Hotels, 5 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] Travels and Tourism Services Private Ltd. The applicant/accused 

 Suresh Thimiri was the C.E.O. since 2010 and became Director of 

 
 Transview Enterprises India Private Limited. The holiday packages 

 
 were issued by the said company. However, all these holiday packages 

 were not given but only few were provided. Many persons also 

 
 became members could not get a business as promised by the 

 company. Therefore they felt deception. Thereafter the police 

 
 registered offence on 16th August, 2013 against the present 
 
 applicants/accused. At that time, it was found that nearly 90000 
 
 members were cheated at the hands of applicants/accused and they 

 suffered wrongful loss of amount of Rs. 425 Crores and as such 
 

 money laundering was of Rs. 425 Crores. However, till today during 
 

 the investigation, it was found that number of members who are 

 deceived are around 5 lacs and misappropriation and money 

 laundering was about more than of Rs. 1000 Crores. Hence, this 

 complaint. 5. Mr. Amit Desai, Mr. Ashok Mundargi, the learned 

 Senior Counsel and Mr. Girish Kulkarni, the learned counsel for the 

 applicants have submitted that the applicants/accused are innocent. [email protected] They have neither cheated anybody nor committed any offence. It is 

 submitted that the complainant is a motivated person who has lodged 

 
 a false complaint against the applicants/accused due to business 

 
 rivalry. They submitted that the applicants/accused are in the 

 business of direct marketing which is legally permissible in all over 

 
 the world. Vihaan Direct Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. company has total 50 

 products and they are categorized sales known for nutrition and 

 
 herbal products, the tourism holiday, wellness products etc. Mr. Amit 
 
 Desai, the learned Senior Counsel, further has submitted that the 
 
 applicants/accused neither promoted any investment nor collected 

 deposits in any scheme. They are selling products and the buyers get 
 

 the commission. He described the policy of the company as "if you sell 
 

 more, you earn more". It is not a fly-by-night operation of money 

 laundering but the applicants/accused are in the business with the 

 large number of Individual Representatives who have earned lot of 

 money. However, their statements are not recorded by the police. He 

 submitted that police are selective in the investigation. He relied on 

 the terms and conditions of the contract/policy which every member 

 has to sign with the company after he gets Independent 

 Representative number and the membership. He submitted that the 7 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] company has also refund policy and the persons who did not receive 

 the service or are not satisfied with the service, they can approach the 

 
 company. The company has refunded nearly 95-100 Crores. 6. In support of his contention, the learned senior counsel 

 
 has relied on the judgment of Gold
 Quest International
 Private 

 Limited vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Others , (2014) 15 Supreme 

 
 Court Cases, 235 where the company has filed Petition for quashing 
 
 the first information report and wherein a compromise/settlement 
 
 between the parties has taken place and the Supreme Court quashed 

 the first information report and allowed the Appeal. He further relied 
 

 on the judgment of State of West Bengal and Othres vs. Swapan 
 

 Kumar Guha and Others , 1982 Supreme Court Cases (Cri) 283. So 

 also in the case of State of West Bengal and Others vs. Sanchaita 

 Investments and Others, 1982 Supreme Court Cases (Cri) 283. The judgment of Sanchaita Investments is on Sections 3 and 4 of 

 Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. He 

 further relied on para 6 of the said ruling. He submitted that the 

 offence under Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) 

 Act, 1978 is bailable. On the point of necessity of arrest, he relied on 8 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra and 

 Others , (2011) 1 Supreme Court Cases 694 and Jogindarsingh vs. 

 
 U.P and Others, 1994(4) SCC 260. The learned senior counsel Mr. 

 
 Amit Desai has submitted that in any case arrest is not required and 

 arrest is not justified especially when the punishment is less than 7 

 
 years. In order to substantiate his submissions, he relied on Arnesh 

 Kumar vs. State of Bihar and Another , (2014) 8 Supreme Court 

 
 Case, 273. He also relied on Amway India Enterprises vs. Union of 
 
 India , 2007 SCC OnLine AP 494. 7. The learned senior counsel has submitted that since the 
 

 case of Joginder Kumar vs. State of U.P. And Others , (1994) 4 
 

 Supreme Court Case, 260 to the case of Arnesh Kumar (supra), the 

 law on the point of arrest has changed as the police officer must be 

 satisfied about necessity and jurisdiction of such arrest on the basis of 

 investigation. He submitted that there should not be violation of 

 human rights. He relied on Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and Others vs. 

 State of Punjab , (1980) 2 Supreme Court Cases, 565 and 

 Siddharam Mhetre (supra), wherein the principle of arrest in the 

 cases of anticipatory bail is explained. He further placed reliance on 9 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] the case of Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth vs. State of Gujrat, 2015 SCC 

 OnLine 771. It was the case under Section 438 of Code of Criminal 

 
 Procedure wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down the 

 
 principles of grant of anticipatory bail. 8. Mr. Pradeep Gharat, the learned special prosecutor 

 submitted that Chi Pendent and Biodisk were sent to Bhabha Atomic 

 
 Research Center for radio activity test which was conducted on 20 th 
 
 February, 2015 wherein it was reported that no radio activity was 
 
 detected. He further submitted that the company was not selling 

 actually any product but everything is shown on Internet and on 
 

 social website. The police have recorded the statements of three 
 

 persons who have stated that the seminars were conducted for the 

 persons who were interested in getting degree of M.B.A. They have 

 stated that as per the representation made before them, they paid the 

 amounts as they were promised E-course of M.B.A. which was 

 affiliated to some Swiss University. They were informed that as and 

 when payment is made, you will get identity and one "Independent 

 Representative" (I.R.) number and a link will be provided with a 

 password so that they could have access to the site. However, 10 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] irrespective of their efforts they could not get access and could not 

 complete the degree and thus they were cheated. He submitted that 

 
 Vanmala Hotels, Travels and Tourism Services Private Ltd. and Pallava 

 
 Resorts Private Limited have created a Website and travel packages. The commission was not paid on the products though the new 

 
 members were introduced. The registered office of Vanmala Hotels, 

 Travels and Tourism Services Private Limited company is a call center. He further submitted that in December, 2014 the Ministry of 
 
 Corporate Affairs sealed their office at Chennai and declared Gold 
 
 Quest International Private Limited and QuestNet Enterprise (P) 

 Limited as the fraud companies. Thus money is collected on-line and 
 

 though the Independent Representative number is given, actual 
 

 money was not available for withdrawal. Said money was laundered 

 outside India. The police in the investigation have come across 73 

 bank accounts of Q Net Limited and total laundering of Rupees is 

 around 135 Crores. 9. The learned special prosecutor further submitted that in 

 the year 2014 the complaint was filed against Q Net Limited and 

 QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited companies of Q1 Group as they have 11 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] cheated many persons. He submitted that Q1 Group is from Malaysia 

 and through the said group these activities are carried out under 

 
 different name and style. There are multiple bank accounts, there is 

 
 mens rea to cheat the people and thus, the companies i.e. Transview 

 Enterprises India Pvt. Ltd. and Vanmala Hotels, Travels and Tourism 

 
 Services Pvt. Ltd. and Vihaan Direct Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. cheated many 

 persons and that is continued till today. There is money- trail which is 

 
 disclosing money level circulation scheme. In support of his 
 
 contentions, he relied on the following authorities: th
 A.B.A. No. 1083 of 2012 dated 19 March, 2013. 4) Amway India Enterprises vs. Union of India , 2007 (4) 
 ALT 808. 5) Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy vs. C.B.I. , in Cri. Appeal No. 

 th
 730 of 2013, S.C. dated 9 May, 2013. 6) Kasturchand Ramlal Badjate vs. The State of 
 Maharashtra , (1981) 83 BOMLR 8. 7) Central Bureau of Investigation vs. Anil Sharma, S.C , 
 rd
 Cri. Appeal dated 3 September, 1997. [email protected] 8) Sudhir vs. The State of Maharashtra and Another , Cri. st
 Appeal Nos. 1286-1287 of 2015 dated 1 October, 2015. 9) K.K. Baskaran vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Others , Cri. 10) Shrinivasa Enterprise and Others vs. Union of India , 
 (1980) 4 SCC 507. 11) State of Maharashtra vs. Som Nath Thapa , 1996 AIR 
 1744. 10. The learned Special prosecutor submitted that the 
 
 economic offenders ruin the economy of the State and the economic 
 
 offences are committed with cool and deliberate manner regardless to 

 the consequences on the community. He relied on the judgment of 
 

 Mohanlal Jitamaljiporwal (supra). He further relied on the 
 

 judgment of the Division Bench in the case of Transview Enterprise 

 India Private Limited vs. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. of this 

 th
 Court passed on 12
 
 February, 2014 in Criminal Application No. 

 844 of 2014 where the applicant in Transview Enterprises India (P) 

 Ltd. has filed an application for defreezing the accounts which was 

 refused by this Court. He also placed reliance on Amway India 
 th Enterprise vs. Union of India daed 19 
 July, 2007. (2007 SCC 

 Online A.P. 494). He further relied on the judgment in the case of 13 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] Kuriachan Chacko and Others vs. State of Kerala , Supreme Court, 
 th in Cri. Appeal No. 1044 of 2008 passed on 10 July, 2008. This 

 
 matter was against the order of discharge of the accused persons for 

 
 the offences punishable under Sections 4 and 5 read with sections 

 2(e) and 3 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes 

 
 (Banning) Act, 1978. He relied on the judgment of Gautam Kundu 

 vs. Manoj Kumar , in Cri. Appeal No. 1706 of 2015 arising out of 

 
 SLP (Cri.) No. 6701 of 2015. In the said case, the trial Court has 
 
 rejected bail under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure where 
 
 the accused was prosecuted for the offence punishable under Section 

 3 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. In the said case, the 
 

 Court has referred Section 45 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation 
 

 Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 and which has overriding effect on the 

 general provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure . 11. The complainant Gurupreetsingh Anand who was present 

 in the Court wanted to address the Court and so in all fairness, the 

 opportunity was given to him. He was heard. He has also filed the 

 intervention application. He stated that QuestNet Enterprise (P) 

 Limited carried out their business and after the prosecution of 14 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited, they introduced the business plan 

 under the name and style Q Net Limited. He submitted that the 

 
 company gives rosy picture of 'money back scheme' to the public at 

 
 large. However, once a person become a member, he is called as 

 'Independent Representative' (I.R.) and then he can get the 

 
 commission. However, he does not earn money as promised. The 

 applicants /accused and the other representatives are not accessible 

 
 and finally the person lose his money. He submitted that the same 
 
 persons are rotated from QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited to Vanmala 
 
 Hotels, Travels and Tourism Services Pvt. Ltd. and Vihaan Direct 

 Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. He submitted that the payments were promised 
 

 and the partnership was as per the business plan. The compensation 
 

 promised by the Q Net Limited was on weekly basis. He submitted 

 that as Government found that there is a fraud of Crores of rupees, 

 Government agency started to investigate the matter and through 

 website qnet.net.com which was blocked by the order of the 

 Magistrate Court. He submitted that nearly 15000 Independent 

 Representative of Q Net Limited were transferred to Vihaan Direct 

 Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. company. The complainant relied on the business 

 plan of QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited. So also the Frequently Asked 15 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] Questions(FAQ) in the business of Vihaan Direct Selling (I) Pvt. Ltd. company. So also the genealogy report. He submitted that they are 

 
 attracting people by giving false promises. Hence, there is cheating. 12. The learned counsel for the applicants/accused in reply 

 
 submitted that the applicants/accused have fully cooperated the 

 police and the details of financial transactions also supplied to the 

 
 police. There is no case of money laundering. Only few crores have 
 
 gone out of India. The learned senior counsel Mr. Desai has submitted 
 
 that direct marketing is promoted by Government of India and 

 Government has supported direct marketing i.e. how the 
 

 applicants/accused are carrying out the business and all the activities 
 

 are legal. The applicants/accused who are running company 

 explained the facts to the public at large and the persons who became 

 members. A contract is entered between them. The entire business is 

 legal so that people can earn more money and quick money and it is 

 not dependent on enrollment of members but on the sell. He relied on 

 the judgment in the case of Sanchaita Investments (supra) under Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 . He 

 submitted that in this scheme, income is on the basis of sale of 16 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:14 ::: [email protected] products. It is not compulsory for any person to become member and 

 enroll in it. He submitted that earlier it was Gold Quest International 

 
 Private Limited and if at all there is some fault or illegality found in 

 
 the scheme, then the person can change the scheme as per the 

 requirement of the law and it can be corrected and therefore a new 

 
 scheme can be introduced. Therefore, there is difference between Q 

 Net Limited and QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited. There are no 

 
 registration charges for becoming Independent Representative in Q 
 
 Net Limited, which were compulsory in QuestNet Enterprise (P) 
 
 Limited. The commission depends only on sale of goods. There is also 

 a refund policy in the working of Q Net Limited. The 
 

 applicants/accused are not sitting on anybody's money. In the case of 
 

 QuestNet Enterprise (P) Limited, the Madras High Court initiated the 

 prosecution against different persons than the applicants/accused. However, the order passed by the Madras High Court was 

 subsequently set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as the parties 

 entered into a compromise. As per the requirement of Section 2(c) of 

 M.P.I.D. Act, it is necessary to collect deposits. In the present case, no 

 deposits are collected. [email protected] 13. Before adverting to the facts of the present case, it is 

 useful to cull out and reproduce the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble 

 
 Supreme Court in some important cases. 14. The question before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the 

 
 case of Amway India (supra) was whether the business activity being 

 carried out by the Petitioner comes under the Prize Chits and Money 

 
 Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 and the other issue was 
 
 about the legality of seizure and search carried out by the 
 
 investigating agency at various places of Amway. The Writ Petitions 

 were dismissed by the Supreme Court and it was held that the rights 
 

 of seizure and search on various places are legal. The Hon'ble 
 

 Supreme Court in the case of Amway India (supra) has discussed and 

 analyzed money circulation scheme and where it is held as under: [email protected] 15. In the case of Gautam Kundu (supra), the Bench has 

 referred the observation of the Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. 

 
 Jagan Mohan Reddy (supra) wherein it is observed as under: 16. In the case of Kuriachan Chacko (supra) said case the 
 
 Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 17. This scheme is undoubtedly a multilevel marketing 

 
 activity and a pyramid structure of such scheme is prepared so that 

 
 the members are promised to get money on purchase and sale of 

 products. The money circulation or multilevel marketing pyramid 

 structure as described above is a cognizable offence under Prize Chits 

 
 
 and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 . A letter dated 

 1st January, 2015 issued by the Chief General Manager, R.B.I. is placed 
 
 before me, wherein R.B.I. has cautioned the public against multilevel 

 marketing activities as the people due to attractive offers are falling 
 

 prey to the said schemes and finally they suffer losses. However, the 
 

 offence under Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) 

 Act, 1978 is bailable. 18. In the case of Shrinivasa Enterprise (supra), the 

 competency of the legislature to enact the Prize Chits and Money 

 Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 was challenged. In the said 

 case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that as under : 19. In the case of Bhadresh Sheth (supra) the charges for the 

 offences punishable under Sections 506(2) and 376 of Indian Penal 
 
 

 Code and the complaint was given in the year 2001 and after 17 years 

 the Supreme Court tried the matter for cancellation of anticipatory 

 bail. The Court referred the principles laid down in the cases of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) and set aside the order of the trial Court of cancellation of 

 anticipatory bail. In sum and substance, while entertaining 

 anticipatory bail application, the Court has to rely and refer the ratio laid down in the cases of old good law of Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and 21 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra). The present offence is 

 falling under the category of economic offences and therefore it has of 

 
 different complexion than the case of Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth 

 
 (supra). 20. Perused the documents presented by both the sides. I 

 have gone through the plan which is given by Qnet to every 

 
 individual representative (IR). I have gone through the statements of 
 
 many witnesses, who claimed that they have been cheated under the 
 
 scheme launched by Qnet. I have also considered the conclusive 

 report of (Serious Fraud Investigation Agency under the Company 
 

 Act ) S.F.IO. Prima facie, there is material to hold that the business 
 

 conducted by Qnet is covered under PCMC Act and also under Drugs 

 and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 . However, all these sections are bailable. Considering the manner in 

 which the business is conducted, I have doubt whether offence under section 3 of the MPID Act, which is a non-bailable section, can be 

 attracted or not? [email protected] 21. Apart from these offences for which the 

 applicants/accused are prosecuted, cheating is the only non-bailable 

 
 offence under section 420 of the IPC. While hearing the case of the 

 
 prosecution and the defence, my main query to both the parties and 

 myself was whether offence of cheating is prima facie made out or 

 
 not. In order to attract the offence of cheating, the ingredient of 

 intention to cheat should be present in the mind of the accused. If 

 
 mens rea is absent, then, even if other person or the complainant 
 
 suffers losses in the business, then, it is not cheating. Then, it can be 
 
 simply labelled as a financial business transaction which did not fetch 

 positive returns. As per the submissions of the learned Senior 
 

 Counsel and the other learned Counsel for the applicants/accused, it 
 

 is true that the company has launched an e-marketing business to 

 make money. As observed by the Supreme Court in the case of Chacko (supra) to earn more money is not an offence; to earn quick 

 money or easy money is also not an offence. Therefore, if such project 

 is launched, that itself cannot be an offence. There is no compulsion 

 or force operated on the public to be a member of the business or 

 participate in the business. Thus, the option was always open to the 

 aggrieved persons to say no to the scheme. However, the things are 23 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] not as straight as they are perceived on the surface. Assuming that 

 the scheme was launched with a noble object to give benefit to 

 
 maximum people to make money quickly and easily by selling 

 
 products of the company, however, after going through the material 

 placed before me including the statements of the witnesses, I am of 

 
 the view that in the mid-way, the intention of the applicants/accused, 

 who are the Directors and shareholders of the company, became 

 
 dubious. They had knowledge that more members are suffering 
 
 financial losses and they are not satisfied with the products. The claim 
 
 that the wellness products i.e., Biodisk and Chi Pendent are medicinal 

 and spiritual products, is after all, a matter of faith. However, the 
 

 applicants/accused have launched these wellness products with 
 

 ulterior motive and with correct judgment of vulnerability of the 

 people. The holiday packages which were sold or offered, without any 

 choice left to the buyers. The entire business was Internet based and, 

 therefore, the persons who are responsible i.e., the top brass i.e., the 

 applicants/accused, were not approachable to the persons who were 

 aggrieved. The nature of the business was knitted in the interest of 

 the Directors and shareholders in such a manner that the persons 

 who are at the lower level of the pyramid cannot get any access to put 24 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] up their grievances. The manner in which the persons were 

 contacted, incentives offered, the workshops were conducted, are best 

 
 examples of inducement. 22. Responding to the submissions of the prosecution that the 

 
 IRs of lower level of pyramid are doing aggressive marketing and they 

 are threatening and pestering people for selling the products and for 

 
 becoming members, Mr.Desai argued that the applicants/accused 
 
 cannot be vicariously liable. They have started the scheme with a 
 
 noble object and they cannot be held responsible for some overreach 

 or aggressive steps or illegality of some IR while marketing the 
 

 company products. It is true that the doctrine of vicarious liability is 
 

 unknown to the criminal law. However, apart from the behaviour of 

 such pressurising tactics which are used by the IRs on the lower level 

 of the pyramid, material is brought before me to show that many 

 workshops and sessions are conducted regularly at various places by 

 the company. Undoubtedly, all these workshops and sessions and 

 training centres are run at the behest of the applicants/accused by the 

 Directors and shareholders i.e., the applicants/accused and thus, they 

 have control either directly or remotely, over the dishonest 25 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] inducement and aggressive marketing which is the modus operandi of 

 this company. 23. To protect the fundamental right of every individual to 

 practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or 

 
 business which is guaranteed under Article 19(g) of the Constitution 

 of India is the duty of the Court. However, it is always qualified with 

 
 reasonable restrictions. A particular business fetching profit to 
 
 handful of individuals cannot be carried out at the cost of others who 

 suffer losses due to deceitful inducement. 24. The statements of the witnesses reveal that the dishonest 
 

 concealment of true facts and the real business of the company. The 
 

 persons, who dominate and navigate the will of the others, have an 

 advantage which they can turn to their account. In the present case, 

 such advantage is gained undoubtedly by dishonestly and in deceitful 

 manner. There are instances of dishonest concealment of facts i.e., 

 genuine nature of the products and by the persons working for the 

 company i.e., I.Rs and with intention to earn wrongful gain to them 

 and the company and wrongful loss to others. The motto of the 

 company 'sell more, earn more' appears very attractive and 26 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] innocuous. However, this motto is fully camouflaged. The company 

 stands on a basic statement that people can be fooled. Thus, the true 

 
 motto is 'sell more earn more' by fooling people. 25. The submissions of the learned Senior Counsel for the 

 
 applicants-accused that selling the product at a very high price is not 

 an offence, is true and cannot be controverted in the marketing 

 
 business. It depends on the marketing capacity of an individual and 
 
 so the level of his profit. However, in this marketing, the IRs are 

 directed to give all the names and details of the relatives, phone 
 
 numbers of their acquaintances, references and thereafter the persons 

 in the higher level, who are given some positions, contact these 
 

 acquaintances and references and the chain is multiplied. The 
 

 persons who are gullible, are bound to be prey of such kind of 

 persuasion which is coloured with inducement. In fact, it is a chain 

 where a person is fooled and then he is trained to fool others to earn 

 money. For that purpose, workshops are conducted where study and 

 business material is provided with a jugglery of words, promises and 

 dreams. Thus, the deceit and fraud is camouflaged under the name of 

 e-marketing and business. [email protected] 26. Mr.Desai, the learned Senior Counsel for the Applicants, 

 
 has submitted that the law under section 438 of the Code of Criminal 

 
 Procedure has developed and changed a lot till today. The Supreme 

 Court has taken a very liberal view and a humanistic view on the 

 
 point of arrest. He relied on Joginder Singh Sibiya and Bhadresh 

 Bipinbhai Sheth (supra) and submitted that in the cases especially 

 
 where the punishment is less than 7 years, the Supreme Court has 
 
 disapproved arrest and, therefore, section 41A of the Code of 
 
 Criminal Procedure is enacted. 27. It is true that the Legislature in order to avoid illegal 
 

 arrest, rather to check the police-mania of arrest, has enacted section 

 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Supreme Court 

 responding to the said legislation in Arnesh Kumar (supra), has laid 

 down guidelines directing the police how to give notice and the 

 person should get opportunity to put up his explanation. In the 

 present case, the offence is registered in the year 2013. The 

 applicants/accused were granted interim pre-arrest bail by the 

 learned Sessions Judge and thus, the applicants/accused have visited 28 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] the police station on a number of occasions and gave explanation to 

 the police, which they wanted to. However, the police have opposed 

 
 their applications for pre-arrest bail in the Sessions Court and the 

 
 Sessions Court has denied the same. It shows that section 41A was in 

 fact fully complied with. This shows that the police whatever 

 
 explanation and information they received from the 

 applicants/accused are not satisfied. I made searching queries to the 

 
 learned Prosecutor in order to clear the doubt as to whether the 
 
 police wanted to arrest the applicant-accused only out of vengenace 
 
 or they have made it a prestige issue. However, after going through 

 the record, which is placed before the Court and the submissions 
 

 made by both the parties, I found that such element is absent. There 
 

 may be misdirected over-enthusiasm on the part of the prosecution in 

 sending Biodisk and Chi Pendent to BARC. However, I am of the 

 view that they need to investigate properly and more effectively to 

 find out the money trail and from where the products are 

 manufactured, also to check the correct addresses, bank accounts, 

 networking of the company, etc. Moreover, by this deceitful 

 inducement, large number of people, may be approximately 2.5 lakh 

 people, are trapped in this money-tree planting business and 29 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] everyday, as it is an ongoing activity, more people are accepting these 

 attractive camouflaged offers. 28. It has very grave and serious impact on the economic 

 status and mental health of the people on a large scale. On 

 
 considering parameters of section 438 of the Code of Criminal 

 Procedure, I am not inclined to protect the accused. It won't be out of 

 
 place to mention that such circulation is required to be stopped. It is 
 
 necessary for the prosecution to take injunctive steps against this 
 
 business activity which is prima facie, illegal. Though by stopping this 

 business, a large group of people may get financially affected, 
 

 however, it will save larger groups of people from becoming prey of 
 

 this activity. 29. In the result, the Anticipatory Bail Applications are 

 rejected. Criminal Applications for interventions stand disposed of. 30. At this stage, learned Counsel appearing for the 

 applicants/accused seeks continuation of earlier interim relief for a 

 period of 10 weeks as the applicants/accused intend to challenge the 30 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 ::: [email protected] order before the honourable Supreme Court. Learned Prosecutor has 

 opposed this oral prayer. However, the earlier interim relief is 

 
 continued till 15th July, 2016. (MRIDULA BHATKAR, J.) 31 / 31 ::: Uploaded on - 07/05/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/05/2016 00:01:15 :::