Petitioner has prayed for bail in connection with M.L. Case No. 01/2023

pending before the Learned Special Judge, CBI Court No.1 (being the learned

Judge-in-charge of E.D. Court) as he is in custody for more than 14 months

and there has been no progress in the case, further according to the petitioner 2 investigation is still continuing and there is hardly any possibility of the trial

commencing soon. The genesis of the case was on the basis of a complaint by the Regional

Manager, Regional Office III, Canara Bank, Kolkata and the subject related to

one of the branches of the Bank at Narendrapur, B.D. Memorial Institute, West

Bengal wherein M/s. T.M. Traders (A/C No. 120001761068) and M/s. K.K.

Traders (A/C no. 120001761042) opened current account in their names on

31.08.2022. The aforesaid two firms submitted their KYC documents alongwith

the account opening forms. Transactions were made on 12.09.2022 by M/s.

T.M. Traders and on 03.09.2022 by M/s. K.K. Traders in their account. During

the initial stage there were no huge transactions noticed by OTM Cell,

Bangalore, (which is the controlling office of the bank, engaged in vigilance over

abnormal transactions in newly opened accounts). On 17.09.2022 after

observing huge debit transaction in the account of the aforesaid two firms

Regional Office -III was informed for confirming regarding the genuineness of

the account and for KYC compliance. As there were huge debit credit entries

within a span of less than a month, the credibility of the transactions were

suspected, thus to cross-check the authenticity of the residential permanent

address appearing in Aadhar and PAN Card address the bank officials visited

the addresses so furnished when it was detected that the parties were hailing

from Jamshedppur, Jharkhand. No parties were carrying out business at the

address which were furnished in the account opening form and also no such

parties existed at the address furnished in Jamshedpur. 3 It was alleged that the entire credits were effected through UPI, NEFT,

RTGS transaction and therefore transferred to multiple accounts by the

customer to the parties via internet banking channel initiated by the customer

either on the same day or next day. M/s. National Payment Corporation of

India alerted the head office of Canara Bank on 30.09.2022 regarding

unauthorized entity using account of Canara Bank for forex funding purposes

prohibited by RBI. Name of the entity/website was TP Global FX account, A/C

M/s. T.M. Traders, A/c no. 120001761068, IFSC-CNRB0019754. A criminal

case was directed to be initiated as the parties have committed a criminal act

against the bank by involving themselves in the process of some money

laundering activities by a group of unscrupulous person/persons. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint dated 01.10.2022 referred to the

Deputy Commissioner, Cyber Crime Police the criminal case being Hare Street

P.S. Case no. 290 dated 14.10.2022 was registered for investigation under Section 120B / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code. Based upon Hare Street P.S. case no. 290/2022 dated 14.10.2022 under Section 120B / 420 / 467 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code, the Enforcement

Directorate initiated their investigation/enquiry being ECIR/KLZO-II/21/2022

dated 21.10.2022. The ECIR by and large reflected transactions made through internet

banking channel used by the entity/website T.P. Global FX. Further the

transfer of funds which were made from the two accounts through online mode 4 to Punjab National Bank, Salt Lake Branch in the name of M/s. P.K. Traders,

M/s. M.R. Traders and M/s R.K. Trading all of them having same address with

that of the other two firms named above. On enquiry it surfaced that the 5

firms did not exist. The address of the entities furnished were temporarily on

rent for two months by another company namely M/s. T.P.G. Commercial Pvt.

Ltd. The transactions in the fictitious accounts were through non-existent

companies to different bank accounts by online mode involving Rs.77 crore

(approx.) and it was suspected that an interstate racket was involved. In course

of investigation, police authorities searched a Maruti Ertiga Car bearing

registration no. WB12C 7751 at Club Town River Dale Complex, P.S. Shibpur,

Howrah wherein recovery and seizure of electronic devices, gold jewellery and

cash amounting to Rs.2,20,50,000/- were recovered. The police authorities

prayed for issuance of warrant of arrest against the present petitioner namely

Shailesh Kumar Pandey. As the IPC offences referred to in the FIR are

Scheduled Offences under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as "PMLA") the ECIR was recorded. The investigating authority in course of their investigation filed complaint

against the petitioner informing the Court in respect of further investigation

being carried on. The allegations levelled against the petitioner in the complaint

were as follows: A supplementary affidavit has been filed by the petitioner dated 07-05-

2024 as in course of the argument none of the parties addressed on the issue

relating to default bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure

although major part of the application for bail application, affidavit-in-

opposition, affidavit-in-reply covered the said issue. As the petitioner has not

pressed the said issue relating to default bail this court has not deliberated on

the said issue. Mr. Bhattacherjee, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner

has mainly canvassed his arguments on the principles of bail, in the

background of Section 45 of the PMLA Act, the period of detention of the

petitioner and the provisions of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and its

overriding effect over Section 45 of PMLA, the presumption of innocence and

its appreciation in respect of the offences under the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act . Bail in respect of cases involving economic offences and also

relied upon judgements of the various High Courts wherein under similar

circumstances, according to the petitioner bail has been granted. In order to substantiate his argument that even if the twin conditions

are satisfied under Section 45 of the PMLA Act, bail can be granted in

appropriate case. Reference was made to P. Chidambaram -vs.- Enforcement

Directorate reported in (2020) 13 SCC 791. Emphasis was made in paragraphs

23 and 29 of the said Judgement which are set out as follows : 7 Learned advocate also relied upon the judgement of Manish Sisodia -vs.-

Central Bureau of Investigation reported in (2023) SCC OnLine SCC 1393 to

emphasize on the issue of Article 21 of the Constitution of India vis-à-vis the

provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA and to that effect relied upon paragraphs

27 and 29 of the said Judgement which are set out as follows:- On similar issue of long incarceration and the right to bail of the

accused in cases under the provisions of PMLA, petitioner has relied upon

Avtar Singh Kocchar -vs.- Enforcement Directorate reported in 2023 SCC

OnLine DEL 7518. Reference was made on paragraphs 17 and 18 of the said

judgement which are as follows:- However, keeping in mind the length of the period spent by him in
 custody and the unlikelihood of the trial being completed anytime
 soon, the High Court appears to have been left with no other option
 except to grant bail. An attempt has been made to strike a balance
 between the appellant's right to lead evidence of its choice and
 establish the charges beyond any doubt and simultaneously the
 respondent's rights guaranteed under Part III of our Constitution
 have been well protected. 18. It is pertinent to mention here that the petitioner who is around 69
years of age and has a medical history is in custody for last more than
two years. It has been submitted that the case is still at the initial
stage and the trial may take a long time. It is necessary to take into
account that the detention during trial cannot be taken as punitive
detention. The rule is bail and not jail. Recently, in Manish
Sisodia v. Central Bureau of Investigation in Criminal Appeal a/o. of 12 SLP (Crl.) No. 8167 of 2023 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as
under: This Court referred to Section 19 of the PML Act, for the in-built
safeguards to be adhered to by the authorised officers to ensure
fairness, objectivity and accountability. Vijay Madanlal
Choudhary (supra), also held that Section 436A of the Code can apply
to offences under the PML Act , as it effectuates the right to speedy trial,
a facet of the right to life, except for a valid ground such as where the 13 trial is delayed at the instance of the accused himself. In our opinion,
 Section 436A should not be construed as a mandate that an accused
 should not be granted bail under the PML Act till he has suffered
 incarceration for the specified period. This Court, in Arnab Manoranjan
 Goswami v. State of Maharashtra , held that while ensuring proper
 enforcement of criminal law on one hand, the court must be conscious
 that liberty across human eras is as tenacious as tenacious can be."

 Petitioner also emphasized on the issue relating to delay and bail in

heinous offences by referring to Union of India -vs.- K. A. Najeeb reported in

(2021) 3 SCC 713. Reliance was made to paragraphs 10 to 14, 15, 17 which

are set out as follows:- (emphasis supplied) 12. Even in the case of special legislations like the Terrorist and
Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 or the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 ("the NDPS Act ") which too have
somewhat rigorous conditions for grant of bail, this Court in Paramjit
Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Paramjit Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi),
(1999) 9 SCC 252 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 1156] , Babba v. State of
Maharashtra [Babba v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 11 SCC 569 : (2006) 2 SCC (Cri) 118] and Umarmia v. State of
Gujarat [Umarmia v. State of Gujarat, (2017) 2 SCC 731 : (2017) 2 SCC
(Cri) 114] enlarged the accused on bail when they had been in jail for
an extended period of time with little possibility of early completion of
trial. The constitutionality of harsh conditions for bail in such special
enactments, has thus been primarily justified on the touchstone of
speedy trials to ensure the protection of innocent civilians. 13. We may also refer to the orders enlarging similarly-situated
accused under UAPA passed by this Court in Angela Harish
Sontakke v. State of Maharashtra [Angela Harish Sontakke v. State of
Maharashtra, (2021) 3 SCC 723] . That was also a case under Sections
10 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 18-A, 18-B, 20, 21 , 38 , 39 and 40(2) of the UAPA. This
Court in its earnest effort to draw balance between the seriousness of 15 the charges with the period of custody suffered and the likely period
within which the trial could be expected to be completed took note of
the five years' incarceration and over 200 witnesses left to be
examined, and thus granted bail to the accused notwithstanding
Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA. Similarly, in Sagar Tatyaram
Gorkhe v. State of Maharashtra [Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe v. State of
Maharashtra, (2021) 3 SCC 725] , an accused under UAPA was
enlarged for he had been in jail for four years and there were over 147
witnesses still unexamined. 15. This Court has clarified in numerous judgments that the liberty
guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution would cover within its
protective ambit not only due procedure and fairness but also access to
justice and a speedy trial. In Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee
(Representing Undertrial Prisoners) v. Union of India [Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Representing Undertrial Prisoners) v. Union of
India , (1994) 6 SCC 731, para 15: 1995 SCC (Cri) 39] , it was held that
undertrials cannot indefinitely be detained pending trial. Ideally, no
person ought to suffer adverse consequences of his acts unless the
same is established before a neutral arbiter. However, owing to the
practicalities of real life where to secure an effective trial and to
ameliorate the risk to society in case a potential criminal is left at large
pending trial, the courts are tasked with deciding whether an
individual ought to be released pending trial or not. Once it is obvious
that a timely trial would not be possible and the accused has suffered
incarceration for a significant period of time, the courts would
ordinarily be obligated to enlarge them on bail. 17. It is thus clear to us that the presence of statutory restrictions like
Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA per se does not oust the ability of the
constitutional courts to grant bail on grounds of violation of Part III of
the Constitution. Indeed, both the restrictions under a statute as well 16 as the powers exercisable under constitutional jurisdiction can be well
 harmonised. Whereas at commencement of proceedings, the courts are
 expected to appreciate the legislative policy against grant of bail but
 the rigours of such provisions will melt down where there is no
 likelihood of trial being completed within a reasonable time and the
 period of incarceration already undergone has exceeded a substantial
 part of the prescribed sentence. Such an approach would safeguard
 against the possibility of provisions like Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA
 being used as the sole metric for denial of bail or for wholesale breach
 of constitutional right to speedy trial." In respect of the same point petitioner also relied upon Zahir Hak vs.

State of Rajasthan reported in 2022 SCC OnLine SC 441. Reference was made

to paragraphs 12 to 15 of the said judgement which has referred to as follows: 19. Yet another reason which persuades us to enlarge the
 respondent on bail is that Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA is
 comparatively less stringent than Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Unlike
 the NDPS Act where the competent court needs to be satisfied that
 prima facie the accused is not guilty and that he is unlikely to
 commit another offence while on bail; there is no such precondition
 under UAPA. Instead, Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA merely provides
 another possible ground for the competent court to refuse bail, in
 addition to the well-settled considerations like gravity of the offence,
 possibility of tampering with evidence, influencing the witnesses or
 chance of the accused evading the trial by absconsion, etc." 13. No doubt, in the said case, as pointed out by the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the State, the Court was dealing with an order
passed by the High Court granting bail, whereas, in this case, the
converse is true, that is, the impugned order is one rejecting the
application for bail. The fact remains that the appellant has been in
custody as an undertrial prisoner for a period of nearly 8 years
already. The appellant, it may be noted, is charged with offences, some
of which are punishable with a minimum punishment of 10 years and
the sentence may extend to imprisonment for life. Learned counsel for
the appellant also points out that one of the co-accused namely Shri
Aadil Ansari has been released on bail on 30.09.2020 by this Court.
No doubt, in this regard, we keep in mind the submission of the State
that the role attributed to the said accused is different. 14. The condition in Section 43D(5) of the Act of 1967 has been
understood to be less stringent than the provisions contained in 18 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , as already
 noticed by us. We would think that in the nature of the case against
 the appellant, the evidence which has already unfolded and above all,
 the long period of incarceration that the appellant has already
 undergone, time has arrived when the appellant be enlarged on bail.
 We bear in mind the fact that the prosecution seeks to examine as
 many as 109 witnesses of which only 6 witnesses have been fully
 examined so far. Accordingly, we allow the appeal, set aside the
 impugned order and direct that the appellant shall be released on bail
 subject to such conditions as shall be fixed by the trial Court. 15. Needless to say, the observations which have been made in this
 order are for the purpose of deciding the application for bail and the
 Court will, undoubtedly, decide upon the fate of the appellant in the
 trial on the basis of the evidence and in accordance with law."

 Reiterating his submissions on the same issue, learned advocate for the

petitioner has relied upon Shoma Kanti Sen -vs.- State of Maharashtra & Anr. -Vs State of Maharashtra and Anr. reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 498.

Attention was drawn to paragraphs 37 to 39 which are reads as follows:- 38. Relying on this judgment, Mr. Nataraj, submits that bail is not a
fundamental right. Secondly, to be entitled to be enlarged on bail, an
accused charged with offences enumerated in Chapters IV and VI of
the 1967 Act, must fulfil the conditions specified in Section 43D (5)
thereof. We do not accept the first part of this submission. This Court
has already accepted right of an accused under the said offences of
the 1967 Act to be enlarged on bail founding such right on Article 21 of
the Constitution of India. This was in the case of Najeeb (supra), and in
that judgment, long period of incarceration was held to be a valid
ground to enlarge an accused on bail in spite of the bail-restricting
provision of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act. Pre-conviction detention is
necessary to collect evidence (at the investigation stage), to maintain
purity in the course of trial and also to prevent an accused from being
fugitive from justice. Such detention is also necessary to prevent further
commission of offence by the same accused. Depending on gravity and
seriousness of the offence alleged to have been committed by an
accused, detention before conclusion of trial at the investigation and
post-chargesheet stage has the sanction of law broadly on these
reasonings. But any form of deprival of liberty results in breach of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and must be justified on the
ground of being reasonable, following a just and fair procedure and
such deprival must be proportionate in the facts of a given case. These
would be the overarching principles which the law Courts would have
to apply while testing prosecution's plea of pre-trial detention, both at
investigation and post-chargesheet stage. 39. As regards second part of Mr. Nataraj's argument which we have
noted in the preceding paragraph, we accept it with a qualification. The 21 reasoning in Najeeb 's (supra) case would also have to be examined, if it
 is the Constitutional Court which is examining prosecution's plea for
 retaining in custody an accused charged with bail-restricting offences. He cited the case of Gurwinder Singh (supra) in which the judgment
 of K.A. Najeeb (supra) was distinguished on facts and a judgment of
 the High Court rejecting the prayer for bail of the appellant was upheld. But this was a judgment in the given facts of that case and did not
 dislocate the axis of reasoning on constitutional ground enunciated in
 the case of Najeeb (supra). On behalf of the prosecution, another order
 of a Coordinate Bench passed on 18.01.2024, in the case of Mazhar
 Khan v. N.I.A. New Delhi [Special Leave Petition (Crl) No. 14091 of
 2023] was cited. In this order, the petitioner's prayer for overturning a
 bail-rejection order of the High Court under similar provisions of the
 1967 Act was rejected by the Coordinate Bench applying the ratio of
 the case of Watali (supra) judgment and also considering the case
 of Vernon (supra). We have proceeded in this judgment accepting the
 restrictive provisions to be valid and applicable and then dealt with the
 individual allegations in terms of the proviso to Section 43D (5) of the
 1967 Act. Thus, the prosecution's case, so far as the appellant is
 concerned, does not gain any premium from the reasoning forming the
 basis of the case of Mazhar Khan (supra)." Advancing his arguments on the issue relating to presumption of

innocence vis-à-vis prevention of Money Laundering Act , ld. advocate for the

petitioner, has relied upon paragraphs 339 and 340 of the judgment in Vijay

Madanlal Choudhary & Ors.-vs.- Union of India & Ors. reported in 2022 SCC

OnLine SC 929 which are as follows: (emphasis supplied) 340. On similar lines, this Court in Hiten P. Dalal (2001) 6 SCC 16, in
paragraphs 22 and 23 observed thus: Therefore, the rebuttal does not have to be conclusively established but
 such evidence must be adduced before the court in support of the
 defence that the court must either believe the defence to exist or
 consider its existence to be reasonably probable, the standard of
 reasonability being that of the "prudent man"." (emphasis supplied)" 24. In Mohd. Muslim @ Hussain v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2023 SCC
OnLine SC 352 it has further inter alia been held as under: 25. This Court is conscious of the fact that Ranjit Singh Brahamjeet
Singh Sharma was a judgment on Section 21 (4) MCOCA and
that Mohd. Muslim @ Hussain was a judgment on Section 37 of NDPS
Act but the proposition as laid down the Apex Court is squarely
applicable on the facts of the present case. 26. It is an admitted case that the petitioner herein was a chartered
accountant of Anubrata Mondal. The case of the ED is that present
petitioner was instrumental in projecting the tainted money as
untainted money. The apparent role of the petitioner is filing of the
income tax return. It is a settled a proposition that at the stage of
consideration of the bail even under PMLA the court has only to see the
preponderance of probability. The court at this stage is not required to
record the positive finding of acquittal. Such finding can be recorded
only after recording and appreciation of the evidence by the learned 28 trial court. The case of the petitioner that Anubrata Mondal is shifting
his blame on the petitioner only to save himself has to be tested during
the course of the trial. Generally speaking, the professional would act
on the instructions of his client. However, whether he has gone beyond
his professional duty is something which is required to be seen and
examined during the trial. The allegation against the present petitioner
is not that he has done something which was beyond his scope of
profession i.e. indulging in some activities which are totally
unconnected with the chartered accountancy. The plea of the petitioner
that he has acted on the basis of information and record provided to
him cannot be rejected outrightly at this stage. This is required to be
tested during the course of the trial. 27. Any further appreciation of the evidence at this stage may
prejudice the case and therefore is not expected. It has repeatedly been
held that stage of bail cannot convert into a mini trial. It is also
pertinent to mention here that that the court has only to take a prima
facie view on the basis of the material on record. 28. In the facts and circumstances, the petitioner is admitted to bail on
furnishing personal bond in the sum of Rs. 5 lakhs with a surety of the
like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court on the following terms
and conditions: The petitioner referred to following judgments of different High Courts: Reference was made by the learned advocate for the Enforcement

Directorate to paragraph 34 of Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs. CBI reported in

(2013) 7 SCC 439 for emphasizing on the issue of economic offences which

forms a class of its own. Paragraph 34 is set out as follows : Reference was made by the learned advocate for the Enforcement

Directorate to paragraph 21 of Rohit Tandon Vs. Directorate of Enforcement reported in (2018) 11 SCC 46 for emphasizing on the same issue relating to

economic offences and the conspiracies involved in such offences. Paragraph

21 is set out as follows : Reference was also made to judgement of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors.

Vs. Union of India & Ors. reported in 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929. Learned advocate

has emphasised on the issue relating to the offences under Section 3 of the

PMLA being independent of other offences particularly the predicate offence. To

that effect, learned advocate has stressed on the phrase "under this Act" used

in paragraph 380 of the said judgement and submitted that in spite of

repeated challenge on the issue relating to the constitutionality of the twin

conditions it has been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the twin

conditions so imposed are constitutionally valid and do not violate the 34 fundamental right of a citizen. Paragraph 380 of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) is set out as follows : Learned advocate for the Enforcement Directorate also derived his

inspiration in respect of other judgements wherein similar provisions are

available particularly the NDPS Act and the observations made by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Collector of Customs, New Delhi Vs. Ahmadalieva Nodira reported in (2004) 3 SCC 549. Reference was also made to the judgements of Anil Kumar Yadav Vs. State

(NCT of Delhi ) reported in (2018) 12 SCC 129, Neeru Yadav Vs. State of Uttar

Pradesh & Anr. reported in ( 2016) 15 SCC 422 and Kalyan Chandra Sarkar Vs.

Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav & Anr. reported in (2004) 7 SCC 528 which relate to

principles of bail and different criteria to be considered before releasing a

person in respect of offences are heinous in nature. According to the learned advocate for the Enforcement Directorate the

present petitioner do not satisfy any of the conditions for which he may be

released in connection with the instant case. It has been reiterated that the

petitioner's locus is distinguishable from the case of Manish Kothari (supra)

which has been relied upon by the petitioner as in that case the chartered

accountant was getting monthly remuneration while in this case, the petitioner

happens to be in an agreement of receiving commission of 2% of the total 36 proceeds which relate to a process or activity connected with the proceeds of

crime and was also enjoying the proceeds of crime which is reflected from the

amount of seizure which has been effected and the creation of several

companies which was detected by OTM CELL of Canara Bank and National

Payments Corporation of India. The Enforcement Directorate has opposed the prayer for bail of the

present petitioner as according to them, the petitioner has not overcome the

twin conditions under Section 45 of the PMLA as also on the grounds that

investigation of the case is still in progress for both recovery of immovable

assets relating to one of the absconding accused who at the relevant point of

time had relation with the present petitioner. I have considered the submissions advanced by Mr. Bhattacharya,

learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner who has emphasised on the

issues as have been referred to above as also that of Mr. Chakrabarti, learned

Advocate appearing for the Enforcement Directorate. In this Case amount

transpired in course of investigation initially is recovering of the seized cash

amount and the same was at the behest of a complaint lodged by a

nationalised bank in respect of transactions/debit credit taking place in some

of the accounts and the same being routed through another nationalised bank.

The holder of the main five companies were found to have a single address

which was rented for two months and so far as shell-companies are concerned

which were from Jamshedpur, Jharkhand mainly in those case on scrutiny of 37 the records which were furnished for opening the accounts the same were

found to be fake or non-existent. Going by the allegations against the present

petitioner in the complaint the petitioner was applying his mind, knowledge

and conscience for routing out the money which was illegally acquired by

Tushar Patil, Prasenjit Das, Viraj Suhas Patil. The role of the petitioner was for

concealment and projecting proceeds of crime as untainted money. The

petitioner is by profession as contended a Chartered Accountant, however, he

has been working in a commission basis and for that purpose created huge

number of accounts for routing out the said money to the advantage of the

other accused persons. The petitioner has enriched himself by way of services

rendered which are no-way related to his professional work. In fact, he has in

his statement accepted that in the name of his brother he had received

commission from dummy firms being TPG Techno Services, Angel Markets,

Nuvoteq Solutions, S.B. Vintrade, S.S. Agro, K.S. Vintrade. Needless to state

that those were apart from the cash seizures which were effected. Delay and long detention in custody have never been accepted by the

constitutional courts and wherever there has been unreasonable delay the

Courts have favoured the constitutional mandate of liberty. However, there are

cases where the statute is built in such a manner that the complicity

simpliciter is not a criteria but the detention is on the basis of guilt and the

present case is one of such nature. In such cases it has been emphasised by

the Hon'ble Apex Court that so far as the standard relating to delay are

concerned the same should be resorted to by applying yardstick of Section 38 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. To that effect also reliance can be

made in the case of Manish Sisodia -Vs. - Central Bureau of Investigation,

2023 SCC OnLine SC 1393 and Satyendar Kumar Jain vs. Directorate of

Enforcement, 2024 SCC Online SC 317 wherein the right to speedy trial and

access to justice is a valuable right as enshrined in the Constitution of India

and the provisions of Section 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure have

been held to be applicable in case of provisions of Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 subject to the explanations provided therein. It is a fact

that the petitioner is in custody for more than 14 months but the nature of the

offence complained of requires time for investigation as the procedure adopted

in concealment and its unearthing both are time consuming. It has been

submitted by the Enforcement Directorate that not only investigation is

continuing but immovable assets which have been the outcome of such

proceeds of crime are being traced to countries or abroad and for which time is

being consumed. Having regard to the fact that although complaint has been filed in this

case but yet further investigation is at a crucial stage, I am not inclined to

release the petitioner on bail only on the ground of delay having regard to the

fact that he has not been able to overcome the twin conditions under Section

45 of the PMLA, 2002. Accordingly, prayer for bail of the petitioner is rejected.

 Thus, the application for bail being CRM (SB) 206 of 2023 is dismissed. 39 Pending connected application, if any, is consequently disposed of.

 All concerned parties shall act on the server copy of this order duly

downloaded from the official website of this Court. Urgent photostat certified copy of the judgement, if applied for, be

supplied to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)