1. Appellant and Respondent have locked horns over use of the
 tradename 'Anna' for operating their respective eateries serving south
 Indian delicacies. The word 'Anna' may otherwise sound to be generic,
 used in many parts of the country, especially in the southern states, to
 address an elder brother or a person in position of brotherly affection or
 someone older. However, since the word 'Anna' is largely associated with ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 2/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

southern India, there appears to be growing tendency to name eateries
serving idli, dosas and other south Indian delicacies with the word
'Anna'. This appears to be the reason why Plaintiff and Defendant claim
exclusivity in the name 'Anna' by registering their respective trademarks.
Plaintiff owns registered trademarks 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA',

 and whereas Defendant is the owner of registered

trademark . Appellant/Plaintiff, an admitted prior user, seeks
restraint order against Respondent/Defendant from using the mark

 for operating his restaurant in Pune, contending that use of
the Mark amounts not only to infringement of Plaintiff's trademarks,
but also passing off. THE CHALLENGE 2. The Appeal is filed challenging the Order dated 30 January
2022 passed by the District Judge-4, Pune rejecting the application at
Exhibit-5 filed for grant of temporary injunction in the suit instituted
by the Appellant-Plaintiff. In the application at Exhibit-5, Appellant-
Plaintiff sought to temporarily restrain the Defendant from interfering,
marketing, advertising and selling products or services under the
trademark "Anna" identical, phonetically confusing or deceptively
similar to Plaintiff's registered trademark 'Anna Idli' and to further
restrain the Defendant from infringing Plaintiff's trademark or passing
off products and service under Plaintiff's trademark. 3. Facts of the case, as captured from pleadings filed by the
parties before the Trial Court, are that Plaintiff is a proprietary concern
engaged inter alia in the business of providing services relating to
manufacturing, marketing and serving of food products under the mark

'ANNA IDLI GRUHA', and etc. He claims use of

the trademark/device mark of since 20 September 2011
under which mark, he has been manufacturing, marketing and serving
various types of Idlis, Dosas and other South-Indian food products.
Plaintiff filed applications for registration of trademarks/device marks of
'Anna Idli Gruha' and 'Anna Idli' under the provisions of the Trademarks Act, 1999 and that the Trademarks Registry has issued
Certificates for trademark/device mark of 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA',

 and in Plaintiff's favour and this is how Plaintiff
claims to be the registered proprietor of those trademarks/device marks. 4. It is Plaintiff's case that in pursuance of the business activities of
manufacturing, marketing and serving various types of idlis, dosas and
other south Indian products under the trademarks ''ANNA IDLI

GRUHA', and , he has established a wide setup and
network in the country and as of now, he has set up outlets of 'Anna Idli'
in various cities like Bijapur, Solapur, Pune, Nagpur etc. Plaintiff has ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 4/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

relied upon in the plaint, sales figure of business using the trademark
since the year 2011-12 till the date of filing of the suit. 5. Plaintiff noticed that the Defendant was intending to start

his business concern under the mark which according to the
Plaintiff, is identical and visually, structurally and deceptively similar to

Plaintiff's registered trademark/device mark of . Plaintiff noticed a
banner of the Defendant under the caption "Coming Soon" and noticed
that the Defendant was planning to commence the same business as that

of the Plaintiff by using the mark . With this cause of action,
which allegedly arose on 29 September 2022, Plaintiff has instituted
Regular Civil Suit (Trade Mark) No. 14 of 2022 before the District
Court, Pune on/or about 1 October 2022 seeking to restrain the
Defendant from use of the mark 'Anna' and for various reliefs for
accounts, declarations and injunctions. The Defendant is impleaded in
the Suit as "M/s. Anna, Shirole Road, Opposite Hotel Sambhar, Pune,
Maharashtra-411 004". In his suit, Plaintiff filed an Application for
temporary injunction under the provisions of Order 39, Rules 1 and 2
of the Civil Procedure Code to seek temporary injunction to restrain the
Defendant from using the mark 'Anna' or carrying out business activities
similar to that of the Plaintiff. One Mr. Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak
appeared in the suit as Defendant and filed reply opposing the
Application at Exhibit-5, inter-alia, contending that the Plaintiff's
trademark 'Anna Idli Gruha' is subject to use only in Karnataka. That
he did not conduct any business of 'Anna Idli' in the year 2014-15. That ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 5/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

he surpassed Examination Reports pertaining to his applications for
registration. That no evidence was produced to demonstrate existence of
business in Pune City or any other parts of Maharashtra except Solapur.
The Defendant also contended that he has acquired ownership in the
registered trademark 'ANNA' for valuable consideration of
Rs.9,51,000/- vide Assignment Deed dated 25 May 2022. That use of
the mark 'ANNA' does not amount to passing off since Plaintiff did not
establish possession of goodwill or reputation. That the word 'Anna' is
not exclusively associated with Plaintiff's business since there are
numerous hotels and restaurants in Pune City and other parts of
Maharashtra using the same name. That the owner of the trademark,
Mr. Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak is not impleaded in the suit. On these
broad defences, the application for temporary injunction was opposed. 6. The District Judge, after hearing both the sides has rejected
Plaintiff's Application for temporary injunction by order dated 30
January 2023 which is subject matter of challenge in the present Appeal. C. SUBMISSIONS 7. Extensive submissions are made by the counsel appearing for
the rival parties. It would be necessary to summarise the same. C.1 SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT/PLAINTIFF 8. Mr. Kamod the learned counsel would appear on behalf of the
Plaintiff and submit that the Plaintiff has been using the marks ''ANNA ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 6/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

IDLI GRUHA', and since the year 2011 whereas the

Defendant was yet to start using the mark as on the date of
filing of the suit. That since prior use by the Plaintiff is established,
Plaintiff has made out a clear case of passing off. That prior registration
of the mark "ANNA" by the predecessor-in-title of the Defendant is
irrelevant and what is relevant is the adoption of the mark, which is
admittedly at prior point of time by the Plaintiff. That the word "Anna"
is a leading and essential feature of Plaintiff's trademark/device mark.
That use of the word "ANNA" by the Defendant would undoubtedly
confuse the customers and Defendant would make use of the goodwill
and reputation established by the Plaintiff by deliberately using the
leading and essential feature of Plaintiff's mark. 9. Mr. Kamod, would further invite my attention to the
reply filed by the Defendant opposing the application for temporary
injunction to demonstrate that the Defendant took conflicting defences.
That in one breath, he relies on registration of trademark to claim
exclusivity whereas he also contends that the word "Anna" is not
exclusive to the Plaintiff on account of existence of several other
restaurants in Pune City and other parts of Maharashtra. That
Defendant cannot blow hot and cold by taking inconsistent pleas. In
support of his submission that contradictory stands of exclusivity on
account of registration and generic use of the work cannot be taken by a
Defendant, Mr. Kamod would rely upon judgment of this Court in
Jagdish Gopal Kamath and Others V/s. Lime & Chilli Hospitality ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 7/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

Services (2015) 4 AIR Bom R 272. He would rely upon judgment of
this Court in Pidilite Industries Limited V/s. Riya Chemy MANU/MH/
4645/2022 in support of his contention about estoppel from taking
contradictory stands and heavy burden of proof about alleged use by
third parties on the Defendant. 10. Mr. Kamod would then submit that the District Judge
has erred in rejecting Plaintiff's application for temporary injunction on
sole ground of representation made by Plaintiff at the time of
registration of the mark 'Anna Idli Gruha'. That the representation made
by Plaintiff's attorney that Plaintiff's mark did not resemble other marks
cited in the search report by the Trademark Registry would not bind
Plaintiff from seeking an order of injunction in action for passing off.
He would submit that the principle of ' prosecution history estoppel'
would not apply to the present case. He would submit that the defences
taken by a party at the time of registration of the trademark cannot be
the sole reason for determining the correctness of claim for passing off
and that such a claim is required to be adjudicated on the touchstone of
all other factors which are germane to the claim of passing off. That an
incorrect admission made contrary to the statute would not estop a party
from maintaining an action for passing off. In support of his
contentions, he would rely upon the following judgments: And Ors. MANU/DE/1838/2019. 11. Mr. Kamod would further submit that prior registration
of Defendant's mark is an irrelevant factor and what is material is the
prior user. That prior use is recognised superior to that of registration
and that even a registered proprietor cannot disturb/interfere with the
rights of prior user. That registration flows out of statutory right whereas
the common law right of passing off is recognised superior to the
statutory right of registration. That registration of trademark is no
defence to a passing off action. That registration of a mark merely
recognises a right which is already pre-existing in common law and does
not create any right. That the common law right of passing off is merely
recognised on account of registration of a mark. That the Courts have
consistently recognised the common law right of passing off to be
superior to the statutory right of registration. In support of these
contentions, Mr. Kamod would rely upon the judgment of the Apex
Court in S. Syed Mohideen V/s. P. Sulochana Bai (2016) 2 SCC 683. 12. Mr. Kamod would further submit that the stand taken
by Plaintiff during the process of registration of the mark would not
estop the owner of the mark from instituting a passing off action.
According to him, the replies filed by the attorneys of the Plaintiff at the
time of registration are cyclostyled. That such defences taken at the time ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 9/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

of registration are required to be restricted only with regard to the
proceedings for registration and cannot apply to action instituted for
passing off. That the applications filed by Plaintiff for registration of the
mark and the defences taken by his attorney etc. are in public domain
and therefore the Plaintiff could not have been accused of suppression
by the Learned Judge of the District Court. That the learned Judge has
erroneously refused to consider various factors demonstrating passing
off on the part of the defendant by closing his mind only on solitary
issue of estoppel. That the judgment of the Delhi High Court in S.K.
Sachdeva & Another. Vs. Shri. Educare Limited and Another (2016) 65
PTC 614 is clearly distinguishable as the judgment would apply only in
cases of willful and deliberate suppression. That in any case, the
Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in S.K. Sachdeva considered
merits of the claim and did not non-suit the Plaintiff on the ground of
suppression. He would submit that a Single Judge of the Delhi High
Court in subsequent decision in Teleecare Network India (supra) has
distinguished the judgment in S.K. Sachdeva holding that the same
would apply only in cases involving willful and deliberate concealment. 13. On the above broad submissions, Mr. Kamod would pray
for setting aside the Order passed by the District Judge and for allowing
the Application filed by the Plaintiff at Exhibit-5 for grant of temporary
injunction. 14. Mr. Soni, the learned counsel would appear on behalf of the
Respondent/Defendant to oppose the Appeal and submit that after
applying the basic principles governing grant of temporary injunction to
the facts of the present case, no case was made out by the Plaintiff for
grant of temporary injunction. That for claiming discretionary relief of
temporary injunction, Plaintiff ought to have approached the Court
with clean hands whereas he chose to suppress the contradictory
defences taken by him at the time of seeking registration of marks. That
it is well established principle that a person who does not come to the
Court with clean hands is not even entitled to be heard on merits. In
support of his contention, he would place reliance on the judgment of
the Apex Court in Ramjas Foundation and Another V/s. Union of India
and Others, (2010) 14 SCC 38. He would counter the submission of the
Plaintiff that the necessary information relating to registration process is
under public domain by contending that the Plaintiff cannot decide as
to what should be disclosed and what not. Relying on the judgment of
the Apex Court in Bhaskar Laxman Jadhav and Others V/s Karamveer
Kakasaheb Wagh Education Society and Others (2013) 11 SCC 531, Mr.
Soni would contend that the litigants cannot decide what fact is material
for adjudicating a case and what is not material and that it is obligatory
for him/her to disclose all facts of the case. 15. Mr. Soni would then highlight the aspect of delay on the
part of the Plaintiff in instituting the present Appeal. He would submit
that though injunction was refused on 30 January 2023, Plaintiff filed ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 11/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

the present Appeal in April 2023 and sought circulation thereof in
November 2023 demonstrating thereby that there is no urgency for
grant of any temporary injunction. During the time gap, Plaintiff started
his outlet at Fergusson College Road, Pune in December 2022 and has
now established his own reputation and has done the business in excess
of Rs.5 crores. That the popularity is earned by the Defendant not on
account of use of the word "ANNA" but because of quality and taste of
the products served at the Restaurant. That Plaintiff has suppressed the
fact that he has sought stay of his own suit by filing an application under Section 124 of the Trademarks Act on 13 March 2023, which
demonstrates reluctance on the part of the Plaintiff to continue with the
trial. That these factors would demonstrate implied consent and
acquiescence on the part of the Plaintiff to use of the mark "ANNA" by
the Defendant. That the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary party as
despite disclosing the name of the registered owner of the mark, Plaintiff
failed to implead him as party Defendant to the suit. That the suit is
vaguely filed in the name of 'M/s. Anna' which is a non-existent entity. 16. Mr. Soni would accuse Plaintiff of committing fraud on
Court by suppressing material facts. He would invite my attention to the
reply dated 5 February 2023 signed by Mr. Shantesh S. Kalasgond,
proprietor of mark 'Anna Idli Gruha' stating that the service mark 'Anna
Idli Gruha' does not resemble with other marks cited in the search
report, which included Defendant's mark 'ANNA'. That this falsifies the
defence taken of filing of cyclostyled reply by Plaintiff's attorney. That
the stand of Plaintiff's mark not resembling with that of the Defendant ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 12/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

has been repeatedly taken in various registration applications and
Plaintiff cannot wriggle out of that stand by attempting to blame his
attorney. He would rely upon Judgment of this Court in PhonePe
Private Limited V/s. Resilient Innovations Private Limited Interim
Application (L) No. 25032/2021 in Commercial IP Suit No. 160/2022
decided on 6 April 2023 in support of his contention that the aspect of
'prosecution history estoppel' assumes significance in the facts of the
present case and contradictory defences taken at the time of registration
of the mark cannot be ignored altogether even while considering the
action for passing off. He would also place strong reliance on the
judgment of Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in S.K. Sachdeva
(supra). 17. Mr. Soni would further submit that Plaintiff does not have
any wide business network as falsely suggested. That there was no
restaurant of the Plaintiff operational in Pune. Mere operation of some
Restaurant at Bijapur or Solapur cannot establish earning of any
reputation or cause of any confusion in the minds of patrons at Pune.
Mere production of sales figures would not prove that Plaintiff has
indeed established wide network of Restaurants. That there is no
evidence of any expenditure on advertisement. That the Certificate of
Chartered Accountant produced by the Plaintiff shows 'Nil' business in
the year 2014-15. That the sales figure pleaded in the plaint in the year
2020-21 are ex-facie false as it was impossible for the Plaintiff to
generate more sales during Covid-19 outbreak in 2020-21 than the year
2019-20. Neeta Sawant 13/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 18. Mr. Soni would further submit that the Deed of
Assignment of the Defendant acquiring the Mark has not been
challenged in the Suit. That even if the claim of prior use of the Mark is
established, Plaintiff has not satisfied the other tests of irreparable loss
and balance of convenience. That there are no pleadings in support of
the claim of misrepresentation by the Plaintiff or establishment of any
goodwill. That it is impossible to believe that on account of operation of
Restaurant by the Plaintiff at Solapur, the patrons at Pune are likely to
get confused. 19. Lastly, Mr. Soni would submit that the scope of interference
by Appellate Court in the exercise of discretion by the Trial Court while
refusing interim injunction is extremely narrow. Placing reliance on the
judgment of the Apex Court in Punjab and Sind Bank V/s Frontline
Corporation Ltd. AIR 2023 SC 2786, he would urge for non-interfere
in the discretion exercised by the Trial Court. He would pray for
dismissal of the Appeal. 20. Rival contentions of the parties now fall for my consideration. D. REASONS AND ANALYSIS 21. In the present case, both Plaintiff as well as Defendant are
registered owners of their respective trademarks. Therefore, prima facie
the case does not involve infringement of Plaintiff's trademark by the
Defendant. What Plaintiff essentially contends is that he has been using ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 14/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

the trademarks 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' and at a
prior point of time than the Defendant and that therefore the act of the

Defendant in selling his goods and services under the mark
amounts to passing off. Before adverting to the issue of passing off, it
would be first necessary to consider the issue of registration of
trademarks of Plaintiff and the Defendant. D. 1 REGISTRATION OF TRADEMARKS OF PLAINTIFF 22. On 7 December 2011, Plaintiff filed two applications
bearing Application No. 2216339 for trademark/device mark 'ANNA

IDLI GRUHA' and Application No. 2216340 for trademark
in Class-43 in respect of providing food and hospitality services in the
name of Mr. Shantesh S. Kolasgond as proprietor of M/s. Shubhashree
Hospitality with address at Hotel Shubha Sagar, Plot No.10, Near NCC
Office Solapur Road, Bijapur Karnataka. Both the trademarks came to
be registered in favour of the Plaintiff. On 15 June 2016, Plaintiff filed

another application for registration of the trademark- vide
Application No. 3286351 in Class-43 which came to be registered in his
name vide Certificate dated 31 March 2017. Plaintiff has filed another ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 15/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

application No. 5088368 on 14 August 2021 for registration of the

trademark which is pending for adjudication. 23. So far as Defendant's Trademark is concerned, one
Mr. Vinamra Navnitlal Shah had applied for registration of the

trademark on 23 August 2011 vide Application No. 2194047
in Class No.43 which came to be registered on 25 August 2015 vide
Registration No. 1228972. After the death of Mr. Vinamra Navnitlal
Shah, the Mark was transferred in the name of his wife, Mrs. Namita
Shah. Mr. Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak entered into Deed of Assignment of
Trademark on 25 May 2022 with Mrs. Namita Shah, by which the

ownership of trademark came to be assigned in favour of Mr.
Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak for consideration of Rs.9,51,000/-. This is how,

Shri. Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak claims ownership in the mark . 24. Before proceeding further, it must be observed here that the
Plaintiff has filed Regular Civil Suit (Trade Mark) No. 14 of 2022 by
describing Defendant as "M/s. Anna, Shirole Road, Opposite Hotel
Sambar, Pune, Maharashtra- 411004". In the plaint, the Plaintiff has
averred that he was not aware about the exact constitution of the
Defendant and called upon the Defendant to furnish the name(s) of its
proprietors/partners/directors for amending the plaint. It appears that
upon service of suit summons, Mr. Indrasen Vilasrao Jachak appeared in
the suit as Defendant and provided the necessary information to the
Plaintiff about him. However, it appears that the Plaintiff did not amend ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 16/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

the plaint and pressed the application at Exhibit-5 for temporary
injunction by continuing the same description of the Defendant. It must
also be observed here that in the written statement filed by Mr. Indrasen
Vilasraon Jachak on 9 March 2023, it is averred that he has commenced
the business in the month of December 2022 in collaboration with a
partnership firm by name Bamburde Hospitality LLP and that he has
permitted Bamburde Hospitality LLP to use the trademark/brand name

 on its premises by granting license dated 3 October 2022.
Thus it appears that in pursuance of the License Agreement dated 3
October 2022, Bamburde Hospitality LLP is the actual user of the

trademark . However, it appears that despite providing such
details, the Plaintiff has not amended the plaint for impleading either
Mr. Indrasen Vilasraon Jhachak or Bamburde Hospitality LLP as
Defendant(s) to the suit. Be that as it may. Mr. Indrasen Vilasraon
Jachak has appeared in the suit and has filed written statement and has
defended the application for temporary injunction. Even in the present
Appeal, the Respondent is impleaded as 'M/s. Anna', but Mr. Indrasen
Vilasrao Jachak has appeared and has defended the appeal as well. D. 2 PRIOR USE BY PLAINTIFF 25. As observed above, both Plaintiff and Defendant are owners
of their respective registered trademarks. Plaintiff is registered owner of

trademarks 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA', and , whereas ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 17/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

Defendant is the owner of the trademark . Plaintiff claims to

be using trademarks 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA', since 28
September 2011. He has placed on record copy of invitation card by

which the first outlet of was commenced at 8-9, Lily Corner,
Morarji Road, Saraswati Peth, Solapur on 28 September 2011. Plaintiff
has also placed on record Certificate of Chartered Accountant showing
audited results of the business 'Anna Idli Gruha' since the Financial Year
2011-12. He has also placed on record copies of Income Tax Returns of
'Anna Idli Gruha' since the Financial Year 2011-12. Thus, the Plaintiff is
apparently doing the business under the tradename 'Anna Idli Gruha'
since 28 September 2011. As against this, though Defendant's
trademark is registered on 25 August 2015 in pursuance of
application dated 23 August 2011, Defendant has neither averred nor
placed on record any document to show that the said mark was
put to use immediately after filing the application or after the
registration. It is Defendant's case that, a license for use of the mark
 came to be granted to Bamburde Hospitality LLP on 3 October
2022 and accordingly Defendant, has started using the mark by
commencing the business sometime in December 2022. Thus, prior use

of the trademarks 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA', and by
Plaintiff is proved. Neeta Sawant 18/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 26. However, there appears to be a minor catch here. Plaintiff's
prior use of the mark in the year 2011 is in respect of the mark 'ANNA

IDLI GRUHA' and whereas the Suit is filed in respect of the

Plaintiff's trademark, . As observed above, Plaintiff's trademark

 has been registered in pursuance of Application made on 15 June

2016 and the mark appears to have been registered vide
Certificate No. 1519772 dated 31 March 2017. There is no clarity in the
pleadings or the documents as to the exact date from which the

trademark is put to use by the Plaintiff. Plaintiff has averred in
the plaint that he has expanded his business in Maharashtra (Solapur
and Pune) Karnataka (Bijapur). In the supporting documents filed along
with the plaint, some photographs of outlets in Pune at Baner, Kharadi,
DP Rd and Market Yard as well as in Nagpur and Vijayapura
(Karnataka) are produced. The said photographs show display of the

trademark and not . The suit is filed on/or about 1
October 2022 when Defendant had merely put a banner at the venue
intending to commence the business with trademark . It
therefore appears that even in respect of the mark 'Anna Idli', Plaintiff ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 19/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

had already started using the same prior to commencement of the

business with the mark by the Defendant. Therefore, even

qua the mark prior usage by the Plaintiff is prima-facie
demonstrated. D. 3. COMMON LAW RIGHT OF PASSING OFF SUPERIOR TO
 STATUTORY RIGHT OF INFRINGEMENT 27. Having made out a case of prior usage of the trademarks

ANNA IDLI GRUHA, and , the issue is whether
Plaintiff has made out any prima- facie case against the Defendant for
passing off. Even though both Plaintiffs are owners/proprietors of their
respective Marks, registration of a trademark is mere recognition of pre-
existing common law right. The distinction between statutory right
arising out of registration and common law right of passing off has been
dealt with by the Apex Court in S. Syed Mohideen (supra). The Apex
Court has held as under: 31.1. Traditionally, passing off in common law is considered to be a
 right for protection of goodwill in the business against
 misrepresentation caused in the course of trade and for prevention of
 resultant damage on account of the said misrepresentation. The three
 ingredients of passing off are goodwill, misrepresentation and
 damage. These ingredients are considered to be classical trinity under
 the law of passing off as per the speech of Lord Oliver laid down
 in Reckitt & Colman Products Ltd. v. Borden Inc. [Reckitt & Colman
 Products Ltd.v. Borden Inc., (1990) 1 WLR 491 : (1990) 1 All ER
 873 (HL)] which is more popularly known as "Jif Lemon" case
 wherein Lord Oliver reduced the five guidelines laid out by Lord
 Diplock in Erven Warnink Besloten Vennootschap v. J. Townend &
 Sons (Hull) Ltd. [Erven Warnink Besloten Vennootschap v. J.
 Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd., 1979 AC 731 at p. 742 : (1979) 3
 WLR 68 : (1979) 2 All ER 927 (HL)] ("the Advocaat case") to three
 elements: (1) goodwill owned by a trader, (2) misrepresentation, and
 (3) damage to goodwill. Thus, the passing off action is essentially an
 action in deceit where the common law rule is that no person is
 entitled to carry on his or her business on pretext that the said
 business is of that of another. This Court has given its imprimatur to
 the above principle in Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai
 Shah [Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah, (2002) 3 SCC 65] . Neeta Sawant 22/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 31.2. The applicability of the said principle can be seen as to which
 proprietor has generated the goodwill by way of use of the
 mark/name in the business. The use of the mark/carrying on business
 under the name confers the rights in favour of the person and
 generates goodwill in the market. Accordingly, the latter user of the
 mark/name or in the business cannot misrepresent his business as that
 of business of the prior right holder. That is the reason why essentially
 the prior user is considered to be superior than that of any other
 rights. Consequently, the examination of rights in common law which
 are based on goodwill, misrepresentation and damage are
 independent to that of registered rights. The mere fact that both prior
 user and subsequent user are registered proprietors are irrelevant for
 the purposes of examining who generated the goodwill first in the
 market and whether the latter user is causing misrepresentation in the
 course of trade and damaging the goodwill and reputation of the
 prior right holder/former user. That is the additional reasoning that
 the statutory rights must pave the way for common law rights of
 passing off. 32.Thirdly, it is also recognised principle in common law jurisdiction
 that passing off right is broader remedy than that of infringement.
 This is due to the reason that the passing off doctrine operates on the
 general principle that no person is entitled to represent his or her
 business as business of other person. The said action in deceit is
 maintainable for diverse reasons other than that of registered rights
 which are allocated rights under the Act. The authorities of other
 common law jurisdictions like England more specifically Kerly's Law
 of Trade Marks and Trade Names, 14th Edn., Thomson, Sweet &
 Maxwell South Asian Edition recognises the principle that where
 trade mark action fails, passing off action may still succeed on the
 same evidence. This has been explained by the learned author by
 observing the following: 32.1. The same author also recognises the principle that the Trade
 Marks Act affords no bar to the passing off action. This has been
 explained by the learned author as under: Neeta Sawant 23/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 "15-034. Subject to possibly one qualification, nothing in the Trade Marks Act, 1994 affects a trader's right against another in
 an action for passing off. It is, therefore, no bar to an action for
 passing off that the trade name, get up or any other of the badges
 identified with the claimant's business, which are alleged to have
 been copies or imitated by the defendant, might have been, but
 are not registered as, trade marks, even though the evidence is
 wholly addressed to what may be a mark capable of registration.
 Again, it is no defence to passing off that the defendant's mark is
 registered. The Act offers advantages to those who register their
 trade marks, but imposes no penalty upon those who do not. It is
 equally no bar to an action for passing off that the false
 representation relied upon is an imitation of a trade mark that is
 incapable of registration. A passing off action can even lie against
 a registered proprietor of the mark sued upon. The fact that a
 claimant is using a mark registered by another party (or even the
 defendant) does not of itself prevent goodwill being generated by
 the use of the mark, or prevent such a claimant from relying on
 such goodwill in an action against the registered proprietor. Such
 unregistered marks are frequently referred to as 'common law
 trade marks'." 32.2. From the reading of the aforementioned excerpts from Kerly's
 Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, it can be said that not merely
 it is recognised in India but in other jurisdictions also including
 England/UK (Provisions of the UK Trade Marks Act, 1994 are
 analogous to the Indian Trade Marks Act, 1999 ) that the registration
 is no defence to a passing off action and nor the Trade Marks Act,
 1999 affords any bar to a passing off action. In such an event, the
 rights conferred by the Act under the provisions of Section 28 have to
 be subject to the provisions of Section 27(2) of the Act and thus the
 passing off action has to be considered independent "Iruttukadai
 Halwa" under the provisions of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 . 33.2. We uphold the said view which has been followed and relied
 upon by the courts in India over a long time. The said views
 emanating from the courts in India clearly speak in one voice, which
 is, that the rights in common law can be acquired by way of use and
 the registration rights were introduced later which made the rights
 granted under the law equivalent to the public user of such
 mark. Thus, we hold that registration is merely a recognition of the
 rights pre-existing in common law and in case of conflict between the
 two registered proprietors, the evaluation of the better rights in
 common law is essential as the common law rights would enable the
 court to determine whose rights between the two registered ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 24/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 proprietors are better and superior in common law which have been
 recognised in the form of the registration by the Act. 33.Fourthly, it is also a well-settled principle of law in the field of the
 trademarks that the registration merely recognises the rights which
 are already pre-existing in common law and does not create any
 rights....... (emphasis and underlining supplied) 28. Thus it is now well settled principle that registration of
trademark merely recognizes the pre-existing rights in common law and
that in case of conflict between two registered proprietors, it is common
law right which would enable a Court to determine superiority of rights
between two registered proprietors. It is by relying upon the judgment
of the Apex Court in S. Syed Mohideen that Mr. Kamod contends that
the moment common law right of passing off is established by the
Plaintiff, grant of injunction against the Defendant who fails to prove
prior usage, is a natural corollary. According to Mr. Kamod, the learned
District Judge has erroneously restricted himself to only the issue of
estoppel based on the stand taken by the Plaintiff during registration of
the trademark when he is required to consider whether the Plaintiff has
made out a strong case in support of his common law right of passing
off. According to Mr. Kamod, entitlement of the Plaintiff for temporary
injunction is required to be decided not on the basis of the plea raised at
the time of registration but by taking into consideration strong prima
facie case demonstrated in respect of the plea for passing off based on
three factors of goodwill, mis-representation and damage. He has urged
that since the common law right of passing off is superior to the
statutory right of registration, the stand taken by the Plaintiff at the time ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 25/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

of registration of the trademark cannot stop the Court from considering
the case made out by Plaintiff for granting injunction on plea for passing
off. 29. Perusal of the order passed by the learned District Judge
would indicate that temporary injunction is refused essentially by taking
into account conduct of the Plaintiff in suppressing the stand taken by
him at the time of registration and by applying the principle of estoppel.
The learned District Judge has recorded following reasons for refusal of
temporary injunction: It appears that on 25/9 / 2011 the plaintiff had applied for trademark
 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA'. On 27/11 / 2012 the Trademark Registry has
 raised certain objections. One of the objections was that said trademark
 was identical with earlier trademarks. List of such trademarks was given
 by the Trademark Registry along with objections which includes the
 trademark 'ANNA' registered in the name of Mr. Shah. To such
 objections, the plaintiff has replied on 15/04/2016 that the trademark
 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' does not resemble with other marks cited in
 the search report of the Trademark Registry and so the plaintiff's
 trademark is not likely to deceive or cause confusion. It was not
 deceptively similar to the other marks included in the search report and
 so there was no question of conflict. Similarly, the plaintiff had also
 applied for the trademark ANNA and similar objections were raised by
 Trademark Registry. Registry has again given a list of trademarks in
 support of its objections which has also covered trademark 'ANNA'
 registered in the name of Mr. Vinamra Shah. Similar reply was given by
 the plaintiff to the Trademark Registry on this occasion also. Neeta Sawant 26/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 34] It needs to be mentioned that despite being aware of these facts,
 the plaintiff has not brought these circumstances on the record of
 present case. This is a willful suppression of material fact by the
 plaintiff. 35] In similar circumstances, in S. K. Sachdeva & Anr.'s case, the
 Honourable Delhi High Court has rejected injunction while observing
 that once a person has taken a categorical stand that a trademark does
 not resemble with other trademarks, he cannot reprobate. 36] In this case also the plaintiff has represented/the Trademark
 Registry that its trademarks are not similar to the trademarks registered
 earlier with the Trademark Registry and so there was no case of
 deception or confusion. Thus, now the plaintiff cannot say before the
 Court that the trademarks are deceptively similar or would create
 confusion amongst the common men. 37] Advocate for the plaintiff submitted that Telecare Network India
 Pvt Ltd.'s has considered S. K. Sachdeva & Anr.'s case and held that
 since the examination reports are available in public domain, there was
 no suppression. 38] Here it needs to be mentioned that despite noticing that the
 examination reports were available in public domain, in S. K.
 Sachdeva's case, the Honourable Delhi High Court has observed that
 the respondents therein were guilty of suppression of material facts. In
 view of this, considering the view taken by the Honourable Division
 Bench of the Honourable Delhi High Court, in this case also it has to
 be held that the plaintiff has suppressed material fact which amounts to
 playing fraud upon the Court. Thus, the plaintiff's conduct is such that
 he is not entitled to the equitable and discretionary relief of injunction
 as sought. 39] When it is crystal clear that the plaintiff has attempted to play
 fraud upon this Court and so is not entitled to injunction, other
 grounds raised need not be gone into. Consequently, I hold that no
 prima facie case exists in the plaintiff's favour. The balance of
 convenience does not lie in his favour and that he has failed to make
 out a case of suffering irreparable loss in case injunction is refused.
 Hence, I answer points no.1 to 3 in the negative and in response to
 point no.4, 1 pass following order. Neeta Sawant 27/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 30. Thus, the only reason why the learned District Judge has
proceeded to reject Plaintiff's application for temporary injunction is on
account of willful suppression of material facts and representation made
to the Trademark Registry about dissimilarity between the two marks at
the time of registration. Before adverting to the issue of Plaintiff's
conduct in not disclosing material particulars about the stand taken by
him during registration process and its effect on Plaintiff's entitlement
for temporary injunction, it would be appropriate to examine the
history of registration of Plaintiff's trademarks. 31. As observed above, Plaintiff filed two applications bearing
Nos. 2216339 and 2216340 on 7 October 2011 for registration of two

trademarks, 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' and . On 27 November
2012, the Registrar of Trademarks, Chennai issued communications to
the trademark Attorney of the Plaintiffs, stating that both applications
were liable to be refused by drawing his attention to the word trademark
search report in respect of both the trademarks. Both the search reports
reflected registration of various other Marks such as 'Anna's Cafe',
'Anna', 'Anna UNAVAGAM', 'Anna Swamy' etc. Both the search reports
also included defendants Mark , which at that time was marked
for examination. Though the objections were raised in respect of both
the Marks in Application Nos. 2216339 and 2216340, Plaintiff gave ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 28/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

reply only in respect of Application No.2216339 for the mark

 on 5 February 2013. His reply reads thus: FOR. M/S SHUBHASHREE ANNA IDLI GRUHA. Sign/- 32. Plaintiff thus took a specific stand that his Mark

 did not resemble with other marks cited in the search report
and that his mark was not likely to deceive or create any confusion. So
far as Application No.2216340 for the Mark "ANNA IDLI GRUHA" is
concerned, the objection was replied almost four years later on 15 April
2016 by Plaintiff's attorney stating in para-4 as under: 33. Thus, in respect of both the marks (Application
No. 2216339) and 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' (Application No. 2216340),
Plaintiff took a specific stand that the said marks did not resemble with
any of the marks cited in the search reports, which included the mark of
the Defendant as well. After taking into consideration this
stand of the Plaintiff, both the marks of Plaintiff came to be registered
by the Trademark Registry. 34. It was Defendant's case before the learned District Judge
that once the Plaintiff represented before the Trademark Registry that
his marks did not resemble with Defendant's mark, he is estopped from
suing the Defendant for using the Mark . Defendant has also
accused Plaintiff of suppressing the replies filed by him before the
Trademark Registry at the time of seeking registration of his marks. Neeta Sawant 30/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 35. As observed above, the learned District Judge has refused
injunction essentially by taking into consideration the factors of
suppressing of facts and representation made by the Plaintiff to the
Trademark Registry. Mr. Kamod is at pains to point out that the stand
taken by the Plaintiff at the time of registration of the trademark is
irrelevant for the purpose of determining Plaintiff's entitlement in an
action for passing off. According to Mr. Kamod, the stand taken by the
Plaintiff at the time of seeking registration of the trademark is wholly
irrelevant factor for considering entitlement for grant of injunction in
action for passing off. On the other hand, it is Mr. Soni's contention that
the representation made to the Trademark Registry about this
dissimilarity between the two Marks would clearly disentitle the Plaintiff
from seeking any temporary injunction. Both the sides have relied upon
judgments in support of their respective contentions. 36. In both the replies filed by the Plaintiff before the Registrar
of Trademarks on 5 February 2013 and 15 April 2016, the stand taken
by the Plaintiff is that his marks did not resemble with other marks cited
in the search reports. Undoubtedly, Defendant's trademark
was reflected in the search report by the Trademark Registry. It
essentially means that the stand taken by the Plaintiff in his replies dated
5 February 2013 and 15 April 2016 is that his both the marks

 and 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' do not resemble Defendant's
trademark . It must be noted that marks of the Plaintiff and
Defendant are in same class and for supply of same category of goods ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 31/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

and services. Knowing this position well, Plaintiff took a conscious
defence before the Trademark Registry on 5 February 2013 and 15
April 2016 that his marks did not resemble with the Defendant's mark.
He further stated that his mark was not likely to deceive or cause
confusion with the mark of the Defendant and that both cannot be
treated as deceptively similar. He further made a representation that
there was no conflict and that the Defendant's mark be overlooked for
the purpose of registration of Plaintiff's trademarks. Plaintiff thus
acquiesced in the position that other persons/entities, including
Defendant could carry on their businesses with their respective marks,
which included the essential and unique feature of the word 'Anna'.
Plaintiff thus had no objection to Defendant's predecessor-in-title using
the Mark for doing business of manufacturing, selling and
servicing the same food products. By filing those replies, Plaintiff
believed that his customers were not likely to be confused or
misrepresented even if Defendant's predecessor-in-title was to start a
restaurant using the Mark . D. 5 DOCTRINE OF 'PROSECUTION HISTORY ESTOPPEL' 37. Having made a representation for securing registration of its
Marks that the same does not resemble the Defendant's Mark, the issue
is whether Plaintiff can now be estopped from seeking injunction
against Defendant from using its Mark . To paraphrase,
whether Plaintiff's stand while securing registration of his Marks would ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 32/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

now continue to haunt him in passing off action initiated against
Defendant? 38. The doctrine of prosecution history estoppel predominantly
used in patent infringement actions is now being increasingly applied to
trademark infringement actions as well. By now there is plethora of
precedents about applicability of the doctrine to trademark infringement
and passing off actions, to which a reference is being made little later.
The doctrine of prosecution history estoppel seeks to estop a person
from claiming any advantage associated with a right which he has
consciously waived in previous proceedings. It essentially emanates out
of the doctrine of estoppel laid down under Section 115 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872, which reads thus: 39. It would now be necessary to make a reference to various
decisions wherein effect of admissions given during registration of
trademark on entitlement of Plaintiff for injunction, in infringement or
passing off actions, has been discussed. 40. In S.K. Sachdeva (supra) the Plaintiff therein had applied for
registration of the mark THE SHRI RAM EDUCARE and the ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 33/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

Trademark Registry had raised an objection that there were several
trademarks already registered with the word SHRI RAM. In response,
the Plaintiff took a stand that the word 'SHRI RAM' being the name of
Hindu deity and that no one could claim proprietorship to such a name
and that the word SHRI RAM was common to the trade. Just before
filing the suit against Defendant, Plaintiff attempted to withdraw the
said admission. This admission was however suppressed in the plaint.
The Single Judge had granted injunction by ignoring such admission.
The Division bench, however, held that such a conduct on the part of
the Plaintiff in concealing the admission given before the Trademark
Registry disentitled him from claiming any discretionary relief and
vacated the order of temporary injunction. The Division bench held in
Paras- 17 and 18 of the Judgment as under: 41. In Raman Kwatra Vs. KEI Industries Limited , (2023) 296
DLT 529, Division Bench of the Delhi High Court has held that though
estoppel cannot apply against statute, the conduct of Plaintiff in making
representation to the trademark registry that its mark is dissimilar to the
cited marks would disentitle it from claiming the relief of injunction.
The Court has held as under: Ltd. (supra) holding that after grant of registration neither the
 Examination Report nor the plaintiff's reply would be relevant. We
 are unable to agree with the said view. In that case, the Court had also
 reasoned that that there is no estoppel against statute. Clearly, there is
 no cavil with the said proposition; however, the said principle has no
 application in the facts of the present case. A party that has made an
 assertion that its mark is dissimilar to a cited mark and obtains a
 registration on the basis of that assertion, is not to be entitled to
 obtain an interim injunction against the proprietor of the cited mark,
 on the ground that the mark is deceptively similar. It is settled law
 that a person is not permitted to approbate and reprobate. A party
 making contrary assertions is not entitled to any equitable relief. 42. A Single Judge of this Court in PhonePe Private Limited (supra) encountered a situation where Plaintiff was shifting its stand in
various litigations. Invoking the doctrine of prosecution history
estoppel, this Court held that stand taken by Plaintiff in proceedings
leading to grant of registration of its Mark would haunt it in subsequent ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 35/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

legal proceedings. This court held in Paras-27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 as
under: This is particularly for the reason that the defendant, in its defence
 pertaining to its trademark 'postpe', has specifically indicated that 'postpe' is
 a short form of 'postponed payment'. It appears that the endeavour of
 the plaintiff is to claim that, 'pe' may connote 'payment' but, in its registered
 trademark, it refers to the colloquial Hindi term 'on', thereby further alleging
 that the defendant by using 'pe' has sought to come as close as possible to the
 registered trademark of the plaintiff. The clear contradiction in the
 stands taken by the plaintiff in respect of its own registered trademark
 in different legal proceedings, shows that it has tried to obtain interim
 reliefs by shifting its stands, which appear to be mutually inconsistent. 28. In this regard, the aspect of prosecution history estoppel assumes
 significance. The plaintiff is not justified in contending that once it has
 obtained registration for its trademark, the stand taken on its behalf in
 proceedings leading upto grant of such registration cannot haunt the plaintiff
 in subsequent legal proceedings. This Court in the case of Unichem
 Laboratories Limited Vs. IPC A Laboratories and others (supra) held as
 follows: - 29. In a similar situation, in the case of S. K. Sachdeva and another Vs.
 Shri Educare Limited (supra), the Division Bench of Delhi High Court
 found that discretion ought not to be exercised in favour of a person, who
 approaches the Court with unclean hands. That was in the backdrop of the
 plaintiff therein having suppressed its own stand taken before the Registrar
 of Trademarks during consideration of its application for registration of the
 trademark. The interim injunction granted by the learned Single Judge was
 set aside on this ground, indicating that the principle of prosecution history
 estoppel can certainly be invoked by the Court. ....... 30. In the present case, it is an admitted position that the plaintiff did not
 place before this Court its own stand when the Registrar of Trademarks in
 the examination report had observed that there were earlier similar
 trademarks such as, 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe Store', 'Phone Pe Crore',
 'pe', 'pay' etc. The plaintiff had taken a stand that such cited marks were
 not similar to its mark 'PhonePe' for the reason that the mark 'PhonePe',
 taken as a whole, was distinct from such marks viz. 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone
 Pe Store', 'Phone Pe Crore' etc. 31. Having taken such a stand, it was a factor relevant to the controversy in
 the present case, for the reason that the trademark of the defendant is
 'postpe'. This Court is of the opinion that by not placing its own stand
 taken before the Registrar of Trademarks in respect of cited marks like
 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe Store', 'Phone Pe Crore', etc., the plaintiff dis-
 entitled itself to grant of discretionary reliefs under Order XXXIX, Rules 1
 and 2 of the CPC . The test in such cases is that if the delendant is likely to
 suffer prejudice due to such suppression on the part of the plaintiff,
 discretionary relief ought not to be granted. In the present case, this Court
 is of the opinion that prejudice was certainly caused to the defendant, but
 for the defendant itself making enquiries and bringing the material before
 this Court as regards the stand taken by the plaintiff in the proceedings
 before the Registrar of Trademarks. When the plaintiff had claimed before
 the Registrar of Trademarks that its mark 'PhonePe', taken as a whole,
 cannot be said to be the similar to marks like 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe
 Store', 'Phone Pe Crore' etc., it was clearly relevant for the stand taken in
 the present case that the mark of the defendant 'postpe', taken as a whole, ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 37/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 can be said to be deceptively similar to the registered trademark of the
 plaintiff 'PhonePe', taken as a whole. 32. Hence, this Court is of the opinion that the principle of prosecution
 history estoppel is correctly invoked by the defendant in the present case.
 The plaintiff cannot successfully claim discretionary reliefs in the backdrop
 of such conduct. (emphasis supplied) 43. In Mankind Pharma Ltd. Vs. Chandra Mani Tiwari , (2018)
253 DLT 39 a single judge of the Delhi High Court has held as under: (2023) 94 PTC 623, a Single Judge of the Delhi High Court has dealt
with a case where Plaintiff had opposed application for rectification of ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 38/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

Plaintiff's mark filed by the Defendant under Section 57 of the
Trademarks Act. While opposing that application, Plaintiff took a stand
that there was no similarity between Plaintiff's and Defendant's marks.
Plaintiff later sued Defendant and sought injunction. Defendant cited
the defence taken by Plaintiff while opposing Section 57 application,
which was apparently not disclosed. The Court decided issuance of
injunction in Plaintiff's favour by holding as under: noted admission, as contained in para 4 of the reply dated 14th January ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 39/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 2020 of the plaintiffs would, at least at a prima facie stage, estop the
 plaintiffs, and would serve to disentitle the plaintiffs from taking a contrary
 stand before this Court, while seeking interlocutory relief. 28. Besides, I am in agreement with Mr. Kirpekar that the plaintiffs would,
 even on principles of equity, be disentitled to any relief in the present
 application, as there is a clear and prima facie deliberate omission, on the
 part of the plaintiffs, from placing the aforesaid counterstatement dated
 14th January 2020 on record. There can be no explanation, whatsoever, for
 this omission. In S.K. Sachdeva v. Shri Educare Ltd. , the Division Bench of
 this Court held that the omission, on the part of the plaintiff, from placing
 such a document on record ipso facto disentitled the plaintiff to
 interlocutory relief. 45. Thus, a consistent view taken in above quoted judgments is
that a stand taken by the Plaintiff in previous proceedings, including the
proceedings for registration of trademark, would continue to haunt him
in all subsequent proceedings and would be a relevant factor while
deciding Plaintiff's entitlement for temporary injunction. In most of the
above judgments, non-disclosure of previous stand by Plaintiff is also
held to be relevant factor for deciding injunction. However that aspect is
being discussed separately in the judgment. For the moment, it would
be necessary to concentrate on the issue of 'prosecution history
estoppel'. 46. On the other end of the spectrum, there are few decisions,
which invoke the principle of non-applicability of estoppel against the
statute and seem to suggest that the stand taken by a party during
proceedings for registration of a trademark would be confined to
registration proceedings only and would not haunt the Plaintiff in an
infringement proceedings. I accordingly proceed to refer to the
judgments cited by Mr. Kamod is support of his contention that the ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 40/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

stand taken at the time of registration of the trademark is irrelevant for
the purpose of deciding Plaintiff's entitlement for temporary injunction
in an action for passing off. 47. In Insecticides (India) Limited (supra), the Plaintiff therein
had filed suit for restraining the Defendant from passing off its
insecticide by adopting the mark which is similar or deceptively similar
to the mark 'VICTOR'. When the application of the Plaintiff for
registration of the mark 'VICTOR' was examined by the Registry, few
other applications having the word 'VICTOR' were pointed out to the
Plaintiff. However, the goods/services in those applications were
completely different and were not for insecticides. Plaintiff therefore
took a stand before the Trademark Registry that its goods were confined
to insecticides which were different from the specification of goods in
the cited marks. It is in this background that principle of estoppel was
sought to be invoked against Plaintiff by the Defendant by relying on
the stand taken before the Trademarks Registry. A single judge of the
Delhi High Court held in para-14 O, S, T, U, V AND W as under: (T) As far as the argument of the senior counsel for the defendant, of the
 plaintiff being bound by its admission is concerned, admission, per Section 17 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 is as to any fact in issue or
 relevant fact. The question, whether the goods of the plaintiff and the
 defendant are different, as pleaded by the Advocate for the defendant or
 the same, as aforesaid, under the Statute and otherwise is a question of
 law and with respect whereto admission cannot be made. An incorrect
 admission of law does not bind anyone. A Single Judge of this Court
 in Samsung Electronics Company Limited v. Kapil Wadhwa , 2012 SCC
 OnLine Del 1004 : (2012) 49 PTC 571 (Del) held that there can be no
 admission on a question of law. Though the Division Bench on appeal,
 in Kapil Wadhwa v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. , (2012) 194 DLT
 23 : (2013) 53 PTC 112 (Del) set aside the said judgment but held the
 said finding to be a correct exposition of law. As far back as ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 42/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 in Juttendromohun Tagore v. Ganendromohun Tagore , (1872-73) Supp
 IA 47, Privy Council held that a plaintiff is not bound by an admission of
 a point of law nor precluded from asserting the contrary in order to
 obtain the relief to which, upon a true construction of law, he may appear
 to be entitled. Mention may also be made of Societe Beige De Banque
 S.A. v. Girdhari Lal Chaudhary, 51 LW 713, where the Privy Council
 held that an admission of the Advocate, of there being a concluded
 agreement was an admission of law, which cannot be binding. Supreme
 Court also, in Banarsi Das v. Kanshi Ram , AIR 1963 SC 1165 held that
 dissolution of partnership was a matter of law and there could be no
 binding admission of the same, and in Union of India v. K.S.
 Subramanian , 1989 Supp (1) SCC 331 held that an admission of
 applicability of the Rules which in law did not apply, could not bind a
 person. (U) Thus, neither the principle of admission nor the principle of estoppel
 deprive the plaintiff from seeking the relief, if were to be found to be
 entitled thereto. (V) There is another aspect. The representation made in the letters dated
 30th July, 2012 and 3rd March, 2015 supra was for the purposes of
 obtaining registration of the trade mark and can be invoked against the
 plaintiff only vis-a-vis the said registration and not to deprive the
 plaintiff from suing for passing off. (W) Once, this Court finds the mark of the plaintiff and the mark of the
 defendant to be in use with reference to the same goods/products and/or
 with reference to competing goods/products, the next question is,
 whether the test of passing off is satisfied or whether the differences
 pointed out by the senior counsel for the defendant distinguish the two
 so as to eliminate the injury to the plaintiff from passing off. (emphasis supplied) 48. It is by relying upon the judgment in Insecticides (India)
Limited, that Mr. Kamod has strenuously contended that an incorrect
admission of law would not bind Plaintiff and that representation made
at the time of obtaining registration cannot deprive a plaintiff from
suing the Defendant for passing off. In Insecticides (India) Limited, ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 43/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

however, the factual position was entirely different. In that case, the
Plaintiff therein did not claim before the Trademark Registry that the
marks were distinct or different. The Plaintiff therein had claimed
before the Trademark Registry that the goods of the Plaintiff and goods
of the Defendant were different. The Delhi High Court has ignored the
objection of estoppel and has proceeded to examine the similarity
between the goods in the peculiar facts of the case where Plaintiff's
admission was with regard to dissimilarity in goods and not with regard
to the marks. Thus the decision of the Delhi High Court in Insecticides
(India) Limited is rendered in peculiar facts of that case and cannot be
cited in support of an absolute proposition that in every case, Court
must ignore an admission given at the time of registration of trademark
for determining Plaintiff's entitlement for injunction in an action for
passing off. Applicability of doctrine of 'prosecution history estoppel' in
view would depend on facts of each case. In the present case, the
Plaintiff has claimed in his letters dated 5 February 2013 and 15 April
2016, that his Marks did not resemble with the Mark of the Defendant.
By stating so, Plaintiff actually acquiesced in the position that the
Defendant could commence and carryon restaurant business with the
tradename 'ANNA'. Thus, the fact situation in Insecticides (India)
Limited and the present case is entirely different and therefore the
finding recorded by the Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in
Insecticides (India) Limited would not be applicable to the present case. 49. In H & M (supra), the Plaintiff therein had sued the
Defendant from infringement of the trademark, 'H & M'. One of the ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 44/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

defences taken by the Defendant was that the Plaintiff sought to
differentiate its mark 'H& M' from the other marks reflected in search
report 'HMT', 'HMV', 'HMW' 'H. M. Tex Kamal' and 'H.M.C.' before
the Trademark Registry by pleading that comparison of two marks
should be done in entirety and not in separate components. Defendant
therefore contended that in the suit, the Plaintiff cannot be permitted to
take contradictory stand. It is in the above factual background that the
Learned Single Judge of Delhi High Court has held in para-15 as under: In fact the marks HMT & HMV were abbreviations of their earlier names
 Hindustan Machine Tools and His Masters Voice respectively and which
 businesses, over the years had come to be referred by their abbreviation.
 Merely because the plaintiffs at the stage of seeking registration took a stand
 as aforesaid, cannot stop the plaintiff from exercising its statutory and
 natural rights. There is no estoppel against statute. 50. Thus, in H & M, the Delhi High Court has held that the
question of effect of inconsistency in stands taken in registration
proceedings and in the suit cannot be answered in abstract and has to be
answered on facts. In H & M, the Delhi High Court found that none of
the businesses of which marks were cited by the Registry were remotely
connected to the business of the Plaintiff. It is in the light of this factual
background that the learned Judge of the Delhi High Court proceeded ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 45/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

to ignore the stand taken by the Plaintiff therein at the time of
registration process. In the present case, there is no dispute to the
position that Defendant's Mark 'ANNA' was cited in the search report in
respect of the same goods and services for which Plaintiff was seeking
registration. Therefore, judgment in H & M can again not be cited in
support of an absolute proposition that in every case, the past stand
taken by a Plaintiff during registration proceedings must be ignored in
subsequently filed suit for passing off. 51. AMPM Designs (supra) involved challenge to the order
passed by the Intellectual Property Appellate Board ordering removal of
Petitioner's Trademark on objection filed by the Respondent therein.
The Petitioner therein had taken inconsistent stands about the
difference in the two marks at the time of registration its Mark and
while opposing Notice for registration of the Respondent's mark it took
stand of deceptive similarity between the two marks. In the above
factual background, a Single Judge of this Court held in paras- 29 to 33
as under: MANU/DE/4894/2012 2013 (53) PTC 112 (Del)., H & M Hennes &
 Mauxitz AB (supra) and Insecticides (India) Limited v. Parijat Industries,
 MANU/DE/2389/2018 : 2018 (75) PTC 238 (Del). 31. In the case H & M Hennes & Mauxitz AB (supra), when issue of
 admission at a prior stage was raised, the Delhi High Court held that merely
 because the plaintiff at the stage of seeking registration took a stand that the
 mark has to be considered in entirely, cannot stop the plaintiff firm from
 exercising its statutory and natural rights. There is no estoppel against the
 statute. In the case of Insecticides CO Ltd. (supra), it was inter alia observed
 that neither the principle of admission nor the principle of estoppel deprives
 the parties from seeking a relief, if it were found to be entitled thereto. 32. There can be no qualm over the position in law that an erroneous
 admission on a principle of law by a party would have no relevance in
 determining the rights and liabilities, for cannot an estoppel against a
 statute. In this case, the stand of the petitioner as regards the similarity of the
 mark differed at different stages of the proceedings. In response to the
 examination report, the petitioner claimed that the marks were dissimilar.
 Whereas in the notice of opposition, to the application of respondent No. 3
 for registration of the latter's mark under Class-42, the petitioner claimed
 that respondent No. 3's mark was deceptively similar to that of the
 petitioner. Evidently, after the petitioner's mark was registered, the
 petitioner took the stand that the proposed mark of respondent No. 3 is
 deceptively similar to that of the registered mark of the petitioner. In any
 event, this aspect does not bear upon the core controversy except reflecting
 upon the litigative conduct of the petitioner. Core 33. In the case at hand, the Court is confronted with the question as to
 whether, even on the premise that the marks are similar, the Appellate Board
 was justified in ordering the removal of the petitioner's mark when the
 petitioner and respondent No. 3 have been dealing in different businesses
 and respondent No. 3's earlier marks were registered in distinct classes. Is
 respondent No. 3 entitled to protect the proprietary right to the trade mark
 even when the petitioner is dealing in a different business is the moot
 question? Neeta Sawant 47/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 52. Thus, in AMPM Designs, Plaintiff and Defendant were
found to be dealing with different businesses. Also, the case did not
involve action for infringement or passing off. Therefore, the judgment
in an AMPM Designs again cannot be cited in support of a proposition
the doctrine of prosecution history estoppel would not apply to action
for passing off. 53. In Teleecare Network (supra) the Plaintiff therein had admitted
in response to the examination report that the word ZEN is generic in
nature and that no party can claim exclusivity over the same. In this
factual background, a single Judge of the Delhi High Court held in
paras-41, 42, 44 and 45 as under: In H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB v. HM Megabrands Pvt. Ltd. , (2018) 251
 DLT 651 it has been held as under:-- THERE IS NO SUPPRESSION OR MISREPRESENTATION THAT
 REGISTERED MA ZEN AND ZENMOBILE ARE WORD MARKS AS ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 48/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

 THE PLAINTIFFS HAD PLACED RECORD THE REGISTRATION
 CERTIFICATES. FURTHERMORE, THE PLAINTIFF NOT
 SUPPRESSED ITS REPLY TO THE EXAMINATION REPORT
 DATED 01st MAY, 20 AS THE SAME IS AVAILABLE IN THE PUBLIC
 DOMAIN. 44. This Court is also of the view that the judgment of S.K. Sachdeva (supra) is of no relevance to the present case as the said judgment is
 regarding wilful and deliberate concealment, which is absent in the present
 case. 45. Furthermore, the plaintiff had not suppressed its reply to the
 examination report dated 01st May, 2010 as the same is available in the
 public domain. 54. It must be observed here that the Division Bench of the
Delhi High Court in its subsequent judgment in Raman Kwatra to
which reference is already made above, has disagreed with the view
taken by the Single Judge in Teleecare Network by observing in para 43
as under: Therefore, the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Teleecare Network
can no longer be cited in support of contention that the stand taken
during registration proceedings must be confined to those proceedings
alone and would have no bearing on the action for infringement or
passing off. Neeta Sawant 49/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 55. After having analyzed the judgments on the issue of
applicability of principle of estoppel in actions for infringement of
trademark and/or passing off, I am of the view that the stand taken by a
party in proceedings for registration of a Mark cannot be ignored in each
and every proceeding filed for infringement or passing off. In the
present case, the doctrine of prosecution history estoppel would fully
apply where Plaintiff has twice made a representation before the
Trademark Registry that there is no resemblance between his and the
Defendant's Marks. He took that stand with full knowledge that
Defendant was intending to use the Mark 'ANNA' for same class of
goods and services. He thus led Defendant to believe that the
Defendant was free to commence and operate business of selling same
class of goods and services by using the Mark 'ANNA'. Plaintiff cannot
now be permitted to take a volte face and contend that the two marks
are deceptively similar. 56. Mr. Kamod has attempted to suggest that the stand taken
before the Trademark Registry by Plaintiff is routine and cyclostyled,
which is usually done by the Trademark Attorneys. He has attempted to
suggest that an erroneous and routine stand taken by the Attorneys for
the purpose of obtaining registration cannot bind the Plaintiff in action
for passing off. However, though the reply dated 15 April 2016 is
submitted by the Plaintiff's Attorney, the earlier reply dated 5 February
2013, is signed by the Plaintiff himself. Therefore, the Plaintiff cannot ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 50/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

now be permitted to wriggle out of the representation that he himself
made before the Trademark Registry by seeking to blame his Attorney. D. 6 PLAINTIFF'S CONDUCT IN SUPPRESSION OF
 REPRESENTATION MADE BEFORE TRADEMARK REGISTRY 57. Now the conduct of Plaintiff in not disclosing its replies
filed before the Trademark Registry and effect of such non-disclosure on
his entitlement for temporary injunction needs to be examined.
Admittedly, Plaintiff did not disclose letters dated 5 February 2013 and
15 April 2016 along with the plaint. The same were brought on record
by the Defendant The learned District Judge has treated such conduct
of the Plaintiff as an attempt to play fraud upon the Court by declining
discretionary relief of temporary injunction. Mr. Kamod has submitted
that there is no willful suppression on the part of the Plaintiff as the
documents relating to registration proceedings are under public domain
and that in absence of any willful suppression, the judgment of the
Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in S. K. Sachdeva would have
no application. In support of this contention, Mr. Kamod has relied
upon the judgment of Single Judge of Delhi High Court in Teleecare
Network. However as observed above, the ratio of judgment in
Teleecare Network has not been agreed by the Division Bench in
Raman Kwatra. Even otherwise, in my view, reliance of the Plaintiff on
the judgment of Teleecare Network would not absolve him of the
consequences arising out of the stand taken by him before the
Trademark Registry that there is no resemblance in the two Marks. Neeta Sawant 51/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

There could be myriad reasons why Plaintiff believed at the relevant
time that there is no resemblance in two marks. He may have believed
that the words 'Idli' and 'Idli Gruha' are absent in the marks of the
Defendant, who uses the mark 'ANNA'. He may have also believed that
addition of words 'Idli' or 'Idli Gruha' to the word 'Anna' would
distinguish his mark from that of the cited marks. He might have
noticed operation of several eateries in the country using the name
'Anna'. He may have believed that the peculiar design or artwork

adopted by him for marks , 'ANNA IDLI GRUHA' or

 would be sufficient for the customers to distinguish its eateries,
goods and services. He may have considered the generality with which
the word 'Anna' is widely used in the restaurants serving south Indian
food. Whatever could be the reason why Plaintiff made representations
twice before the trademark registry about non-resemblance between his
and Defendant's marks, that stand would continue to haunt him in
present proceedings. It was therefore necessary for Plaintiff to disclose
the replies filed by him with the trademark registry in the Suit.
Therefore, even though Plaintiff has successfully demonstrated prior use
of his trademarks, since he himself has represented before the
Trademark Registry that the two marks do not resemble each other, he
cannot now be permitted to seek any restraint order against the
Defendant in the form of temporary injunction. Though the documents
relating to the registration process may be available in public domain, it ::: Uploaded on - 30/11/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 28/02/2024 08:26:32 ::: Neeta Sawant 52/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K)

was necessary for the Plaintiff to disclose the stand taken by him before
the Trademark Registry in his plaint. 58. Temporary injunction is a discretionary relief. The learned
District Judge, in the present case, has refused to grant temporary
injunction in favour of the Plaintiff by considering his conduct in
suppressing the replies filed before the Trademark Registry. Plaintiff has
been registering various trademarks over the period of years. His last

application in respect of the Mark being still pending. Despite
facing objections from the Trademark Registry about registration of
several trademarks with the name 'Anna', particularly that of Defendant,
the Plaintiff has repeatedly represented before the Trademark Registry
that his mark does not resemble with that of the Defendant though both
the marks are in respect of the same Class of goods and services. The
District Judge has rightly considered this conduct of the Plaintiff in not
disclosing repeated stands taken before the Trademark Registry for
refusing the discretionary relief of injunction. It was obligatory for
Plaintiff to disclose all the relevant material in the Plaint. He could not
have suppressed the contradictory stand taken in his replies dated 5
February 2013 and 15 April 2016 on a specious plea that the same is in
public domain. In this regard, reliance of Mr. Soni on the judgment of
the Apex Court in Bhaskar Laxman Jadhav (supra) appears to be
apposite wherein it is held that it is not for a litigant to decide what is to
be disclosed and what not. The Apex Court has held in para 44 as
under: Neeta Sawant 53/60 AO-915-2023-LFC(K) 44. It is not for a litigant to decide what fact is material for adjudicating a
 case and what is not material. It is the obligation of a litigant to disclose all
 the facts of a case and leave the decision-making to the court. True, there is a
 mention of the order dated 2-5-2003 in the order dated 24-7-2006 passed
 by the JCC, but that is not enough disclosure. The petitioners have not
 clearly disclosed the facts and circumstances in which the order dated 2-5-
 2003 was passed or that it has attained finality. 59. Having not disclosed the contradictory stand in replies
dated 5 February 2013 and 15 April 2016, the conclusion reached by
the learned District Judge cannot be faulted. In Ramjas Foundation
(supra), the Apex Court has held that a person not approaching the
Court with clean hands is not even entitled to be heard on merits. The
Apex Court has held in para-21 as under: D. 9. DELAY IN PROSECUTING THE APPEAL 62. Also of relevance is the fact, that the Plaintiff, who showed
alacrity in filing the Suit against unnamed Defendant (without even
bothering to find out the exact person/entity who was going to open the
eatery), did not show same eagerness when it came to filing and
perusing the present Appeal after rejection of his application for
temporary injunction. The impugned order was passed by the learned
District Judge on 30 January 2023, whereas the present Appeal appears
to have been filed on 12 April 2023. Mr. Soni further accuses the
Plaintiff of not moving the Appeal for further period of six months as
the same was circulated for the first time by moving a praecipe on 23
October 2023. In the meantime, the Defendant, who opened his outlet
with trade name in December 2022, has apparently gathered
substantial business, which according to Mr. Soni is much higher than
the overall turnover of the Plaintiff. Though technically there may not
be any delay in filing the Appeal, Plaintiff has permitted Defendant to
establish his business by not taking timely steps in pressing his Appeal.
However, this is considered only as an additional and not the only factor
for declining relief to Appellant/Plaintiff. 63. It must also be borne in mind that that this Court is called
upon to examine correctness of discretion exercised by the learned
District Judge in declining the relief of temporary injunction. The
Appellate Court cannot interfere with the exercise of discretion of Trial
Court and substitute its own discretion, unless exercise of discretion is
found to be arbitrary, perverse or against the settled principles for grant
or refusal of interlocutory injunction. Following the ratio of its
judgment in Wander Ltd. & Anr Vs. Antox India Pvt. Ltd , (1990) Supp
SCC 727, Apex Court has held in Punjab and Sind Bank (supra) in para-
17 as under: SANDEEP V. MARNE, J.