1. Under challenge in this revision petition is the order dated

23.2.2022 passed by Civil Judge (Jr.Divn.), Naraingarh, District Ambala

in Civil Suit No.36 of 2018 titled 'Smt.Bohti and another Versus Krishan

and others' vide which an application filed for bringing on record legal

representatives of defendant No.1 Krishan had been dismissed. 2. Briefly stated, facts of the case are that plaintiff Smt.Bohti

aged about 70 years - wife and Ruman @ Rumani Chauhan, aged 35

years - daughter of Krishan son of Sadhu, both residents of village

Salwan Tehsil Assandh, District Karnal had brought a suit against

defendants i.e. Krishan son of Sadhu and his illegitimate sons Mohan

Singh and Bhim Singh, all residents of village and Post Office

Shahzadpur, Tehsil Naraingarh, District Ambala, seeking a declaration

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 08-07-2023 00:34:27 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:085533

CR-1949-2022(O&M) -2-

that the registered transfer deed dated 21.10.2014 executed by defendant

No.1 Krishan in favour of his illegitimate sons Mohan Singh - defendant

No.2 and Bhim Singh - defendant No.3 and mutation sanctioned on the

basis thereof are illegal, null and void and are result of fraud with

consequential relief of possession and permanent injunction. 3. On getting notice, all the three defendants appeared and

contested the suit. However, during pendency of the proceedings,

defendant No.1 Krishan expired on 30.3.2021. Defendant No.2 Mohan

Singh filed an application contending that Krishan had left behind his

widow - Smt.Rajesh Devi and daughter Poonam besides defendants No.2

and 3, therefore, all of them be impleaded as legal heirs of defendant

No.1. 4. The application was resisted on behalf of the plaintiffs

contending that plaintiff No.1 is legally wedded wife of deceased Krishan

and plaintiff No.2 is their daughter. Since Krishan had re-married without

getting divorce from plaintiff No.1, therefore defendants No.2 and 3 are

his illegitimate sons, therefore Rajesh Devi alleged second wife of

Krishan and their alleged daughter Poonam along with defendants No.2

and 3 have no right to be impleaded as legal heirs of defendant No.1. 5. After hearing the counsel for the parties, the trial Court of

Civil Judge (Jr.Divn.), Naraingarh vide the impugned order dated

23.2.2022 had dismissed the application, leaving defendants No.2 and 3

aggrieved, who have filed the instant revision petition, notice of which

was given to respondents/plaintiffs, who put in appearance through

counsel. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going

through the record and I do not find any merit in the revision petition. 7. On getting notice of the suit defendant No.1 Krishan as well

as defendants No.2 and 3 had put in appearance in the Court. Plaintiff

No.1 Smt.Bohti being wife and plaintiff No.2 - Ruman @ Rumani

Chauhan being daughter of Krishan are already on record. The dispute is

with regard to transfer deed said to have been executed by Krishan in

favour of his illegitimate sons Mohan Singh - defendant No.2 and Bhim

Singh - defendant No.3. Mohan Singh and Bhim Singh are contesting the

suit through counsel. The trial Court has rightly observed that Smt.Rajesh

Devi allegedly second wife of Krishan and Poonam born to them from

that union are not required to be brought on record as legal representatives

of Krishan. It is indeed surprising as to why Mohan Singh and Bhim

Singh want Smt.Rajesh Devi and Poonam to be brought on record as legal

representatives of Krishan when the main dispute is between plaintiffs on

one side and defendants Mohan Singh and Bhim Singh on the other side. 8. The impugned order passed by the trial Court is quite detailed

and well reasoned and it does not suffer from any illegality or infirmity

and is not having any element of arbitrariness or perversity. The revisional

jurisdiction of this Court is quite limited and considering the facts and

circumstances of the case, there is no reason to interfere with the

impugned order by way of exercising the revisional jurisdiction. 9. Finding no merit in the revision petition, the same stands

dismissed. Since the main revision petition has been dismissed, the

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 08-07-2023 00:34:27 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:085533

CR-1949-2022(O&M) -4-

miscellaneous application(s), if any, stand disposed of accordingly.