Challenge in the present petition is to the order dated 1.6.2011
passed by the learned court below whereby the application filed by the
petitioner-defendant for rejection of plaint under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC , was
dismissed. Proceedings in the present case arise out of a suit for recovery
of ` 2,65,000/- along with interest and cost filed by the respondents against
the petitioner pleading that though sale-deed was got registered by the
petitioner in favour of the respondents-plaintiffs after taking the money,
however, when they had gone to take the possession, it was resisted by
Ramesh Chand son of Bhim Singh claiming that sale-deed got registered by
the petitioner is the result of fraud as he did not have any right to sell the
property. The plaintiffs also got FIR No. 170 dated 15.4.2007 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC, registered at Police Station City
Ballabgarh, District Faridabad, against the petitioner. It is under these
circumstances that the suit for recovery was filed in which the petitioner
filed application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC for rejection of the plaint,
which was dismissed by the learned court below vide order dated 1.6.2011. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that once
admittedly the sale-deed regarding the property had been registered in
favour of the respondents-plaintiffs and the same has not been cancelled till
 Civil Revision No. 5394 of 2011 (2)

date, the suit for recovery cannot be filed. There was no cause of action,
hence, the plaint was required to be rejected. After hearing learned counsel for the petitioner and persuing
the averments made by the respondents-plaintiffs in the suit where the
allegations are that they have been defrauded by getting the sale-deed
registered pertaining to the property which the petitioner could not sell and
also the fact that they were not put in possession of the property, in my
opinion, the plaint cannot be rejected under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC . The
impugned order does not call for interference by this court. The petition is
dismissed.