Caveat Petition No. 203 of 2022

 Discharged. The Caveat Petition stands disposed of. An application was moved by the petitioner under

 Order 41 Rule 25
 r read with Section 151 of Code of Civil

 Procedure before the learned Appellate Court with a prayer to

 frame additional issues and to remand the matter to the

 learned Trial Court for calling findings on the additional issues

 after taking evidence of the parties and also to direct the

 learned Trial Court for recording proper findings on issues No.

 3 and 6. This application was dismissed on 4.4.2022. Dissatisfied, the petitioner has invoked Article 227 of the

 Constitution of India. Parties to the present petition are referred to

 hereinafter according to their status before the learned Trial

 Court. 2. Facts: The sale deed dated 18.12.2001 executed by defendant No. 1

 in favour of defendant No. 2 was declared null, void, illegal,

 sham, fraudulent and executed due to misrepresentation. The

 sale deed was held to be inoperative and not binding upon

 the plaintiff. The mortgage, if any, created by defendant No. 2

 qua the suit property in favour of defendant No. 3 was also

 held to be void ab initio and not binding upon the plaintiff. Since defendant No. 2 was held to have no legal right over the

 suit property, therefore, he was restrained from interfering in

 the suit property. Defendant No. 3, through its agents or ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 5 representatives was also permanently restrained from taking

 any coercive action, taking possession or alienation, causing

 . any obstruction, damaging or changing the nature of the suit

 property or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever arising

 on the basis of the aforesaid transaction held to be sham. 2(iii). Defendant No. 2 assailed the judgment and decree

 passed by the learned Trial Court by filing an appeal under Section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure on 18.1.2020. Defendant No. 2 in his appeal, inter alia, contended that the

 judgment and decree passed by the learned Trial Court was

 unsustainable as the learned Trial Court had failed to struck

 proper issues arising out of the pleadings of the parties for

 determination. That the learned Trial Court exceeded its

 jurisdiction while passing impugned judgment and decree. Defendant No. 2 also contended that the findings on issues

 No. 3 and 6 had not been returned in accordance with law. The appeal was put to hearing. In December, 2021, defendant

 No. 2 (appellant before the First Appellate Court) moved an

 application under Order 41 Rule 25 read with Section 151 of

 the Code of Civil Procedure. The application was with the

 contention that the learned Trial Court while passing

 impugned judgment and decree had omitted to frame issues ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 6 about the relief of declaration claimed by the plaintiff in the

 Civil Suit. That no issue was framed regarding declaration

 . sought by the plaintiff in respect of sale deed dated

 18.12.2001. Defendant No. 2 also contended that proper

 issue was not framed by the learned Trial Court in respect of

 the relief claimed by the plaintiff regarding permanent

 prohibitory injunction. Prayer was made in the application

 thereupon: r to
 that after framing the following additional issues the matter

 be remanded to the learned Trial Court for giving findings

 "Additional issues: by Janki Devi defendant No. 1 in favour of defendant

 No. 2 Shri Sanjeev Kumar is null & void, illegal, sham,
 forged and fraudulent document prepared due to

 misrepresentation of facts and is inoperative against
 the plaintiff Smt. Suman Jain? OPP

 Defendant No. 2 also contended that learned Trial

 Court had not recorded its findings on Issues No. 3 and 6. That defendant No. 2 had pleaded in the written statement

 about the suit having not been valued properly for the

 purpose of Court fee and jurisdiction but the learned Trial

 Court had not decided the issues in accordance with law. Therefore, the matter was required to be referred back to the

 learned trial Court not only for calling findings on the

 additional issues proposed to be framed by defendant No. 2

 after taking evidence of the parties but also for recording

 proper findings on already framed issues No. 3 and 6. The application was opposed by the plaintiff. At the

 insistence of defendant No. 2 (appellant before the Appellate

 Court), parties were heard on the application moved under Order 41 Rule 25 of the Code of Civil Procedure . Vide order

 dated 4.4.2022, learned Appellate Court dismissed the

 application. Learned Appellate Court observed that the ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 8 question of determining the legality and validity of the sale

 deed Ext. DX-1 has already been dealt with by the learned

 . Trial Court. The appellant has also availed opportunity to

 prove this document. It was further observed that the learned

 Trial Court has returned specific findings regarding validity of

 the execution of the sale deed and its impact on the relief

 sought by the plaintiff and that no prejudice has been caused

 r to
 to defendant No. 2 by non-framing of the two additional

 issues mentioned in the application. Regarding alleged non- returning of proper findings on the already framed issues No.

 3 and 6, learned Appellate Court observed that objection in

 this regard has already been raised in the main appeal by

 defendant No. 2, therefore, question relating to the findings

 on issues No. 3 and 6 can be considered along with the main

 appeal. It is in the aforesaid background that defendant No. 2

 has assailed order dated 4.4.2022 by means of present

 petition filed under Article 227 of the Constitution on India. 3. Contentions: Learned Counsel for the plaintiff (respondent No. 1

 herein), emphatically opposed the petition. Learned counsel

 argued that the main appeal preferred by the petitioner

 contained the very grounds which were specifically put forth

 by the petitioner in the application moved under Order 41

 Rule 25 CPC . The appeal was at the stage of hearing when

 petitioner moved the miscellaneous application for remanding

 the matter back to the Trial Court in respect of non framing of

 two issues as aforesaid by the learned Trial Court and alleged

 incorrect finding on issues No. 3 and 6. This was only a delay

 tactics on the part of defendant No. 2. Learned counsel also

 invited attention towards the provisions of Order 41 rule 24

 alongwith Rule 25 CPC to contend that the application ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 11 preferred by the petitioner was wholly misconceived. Learned

 counsel also submitted that issues in the Civil Suit were

 . framed as far back on 15.3.2010 without any demur or

 objection by the petitioner. Ten years after framing of the

 issues it was not open to the petitioner to seek remand of the

 case from the learned Appellate Court on the ground that

 proper issues had not been framed by the learned Trial Court. It was also submitted

 that the instant petition filed under Article 227 of the Constitution of India did not even satisfy the

 parameters for the exercise of discretionary relief. Prayer was

 made for dismissal of the petition. 4. Reasoning: According to the above extracted provision where the Court

 from whose decree the appeal is preferred has omitted to

 frame or try any issue or to determine any question of fact,

 which fact according to the learned Appellate Court is

 essential for the right decision of the case on merits, then the

 Appellate Court may, if it consider necessary, frame the

 issues and refer those issues for trial to the learned Court

 from whose decree the appeal is preferred. If required, the

 Appellate Court is also to direct the said Court to take

 additional evidence. Such Court is then to proceed to try the

 additional issues and is to return the evidence to the

 Appellate Court alongwith its findings thereupon. In the facts of the case, in my considered view, there

 is no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the learned

 Appellate Court in dismissing the application moved by the ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 13 petitioner under Order 41 Rule 25 CPC . This is on account of

 the following reasons: On the basis of the aforesaid declaration, relief of permanent

 perpetual prohibitory injunction was sought by the plaintiff

 (respondent No. 1) against defendant No. 2(petitioner) and

 defendant No. 3 (respondent No. 3). Issues in the Civil Suit

 were framed on 15.3.2010. Two such issues framed were: "1. Whether mortgage, if any, created by defendant No. 2 qua the

 suit property or any part thereof in favour of defendant No. 3

 is void-ab-initio, forged and fraudulent and inoperative and

 not binding upon the plaintiff, as alleged?... OPP; and 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the relief of permanent

 prohibitory injunction, as prayed for?.....OPP". The issues were framed in the presence of the

 learned Counsel for the parties. The parties were fully aware ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 14 about the matter and the controversy involved therein. No

 application was moved on behalf of defendant No. 2 under

 . Order 14 Rule 5 CPC for amending the issues. Order 14 Rule 5

 CPC reads as under: In case defendant No. 2 had any grievance in respect of non

 framing of a specific issue, as is being projected now, it was

 incumbent upon him, in the facts and circumstances of the

 case, to seek amendment of the issues. Such recourse was

 not adopted. 4(ii) Parties went to trial and evidence was led by them. On considering the pleadings, evidence and the arguments

 advanced by the parties, the learned Trial Court vide

 judgment and decree dated 24.12.2019 decreed the suit of

 the plaintiff observing therein that sale deed dated ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 15 18.12.2001 (Ext. DX-1), was null, void, illegal, sham,

 fraudulent and executed due to misrepresentation, hence the

 . same was held to be inoperative and not binding upon the

 plaintiff. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to extract the

 following findings returned by the learned Trial Court in the

 judgment and decree dated 24.12.2019: A perusal of the judgment & decree passed by the

 learned Trial Court clarifies that not only the parties were

 very well aware of the points actually in issue, but they had

 also led evidence on all the contentious points after truly

 understanding the gist of the controversy. Learned Trial Court

 has already given the findings on the points now sought to be

 framed as additional issues. In fact, issues No. 1 and 2

 actually covered the entire lis. No prejudice, therefore, can be

 said to have been caused to defendant No. 2 on account of

 non framing of two issues now proposed by him in his

 application. It would be beneficial to refer here to the judgment of

 the Hon'ble Apex Court reported in Kali Prasad Agarwalla

 . (Dead) by LRs. & others vs. M/s. Bharat Coking Coal Limited &

 others, 1989 Supp (1) SCC 628, wherein it was held as under:- "19. It was, however, urged for the appellants that
 there is no proper pleading or issue for determination
 of the aforesaid question and the evidence let in

 should not be looked into. It is too late to raise this
 contention. The parties went to trial knowing fully
 well what they were required to prove. They have

 adduced evidence of their choice in support of the

 respective claims. That evidence has been
 considered by both courts below. They cannot now
 turn round and say that the evidence should not be

 looked into. This is a well accepted principle." 4(iii) Aggrieved of the judgment and decree dated

 24.12.2019, defendant No.2 preferred an appeal under Section 96 CPC. In the said appeal, defendant No. 2 has taken

 ground of non framing of proper issues by the Trial Court as

 well as in respect of not recording proper findings on issues

 No. 3 and 6. It is an admitted position that during the course of

 hearing of the appeal, the application under Order 41 Rule 25

 CPC was moved praying for framing of additional issues in

 respect of the plaintiff's entitlement for relief of declaration ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 18 to the effect that sale deed in question was null, void, illegal

 and fraudulent document and also plaintiff's entitlement for

 . the relief of permanent prohibitory injunction based on the

 proposed issues. Defendant No. 2 also prayed for remand

 of the matter to the learned Trial Court for recording proper

 findings on issues No. 3 and 6. Even though the main appeal

 was being heard but on the persistence of defendant No. 2

 for disposing

 his application under Order CPC prior to hearing of the main appeal the application was

 considered for disposal. When the main appeal was
 41 Rule 25

 itself

 being heard finally and when the grounds put forth in the new

 application were also the grounds of main appeal, then the

 question arises what led defendant No. 2 to institute

 separate application a year later to the filing of the main

 appeal, putting forth the same very grounds? The obvious

 conclusion that can be drawn is that defendant No. 2 was

 adopting delay tactics. 4(iv) While deciding the application under Order 41 Rule

 25 CPC , the submission of defendant No. 2 in respect of there

 being improper and incorrect findings on issues No. 3 and 6

 has been left open to be considered alongwith the main

 appeal. No illegality can be said to have been committed by ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 19 the learned Appellate Court in observing that the ground put

 forth by defendant No. 2 regarding incorrect and improper

 . findings on issues No. 3 and 6 will be taken up alongwith

 hearing of the main appeal. The ground has still been left

 open for defendant No. 2 to be raised in appeal. No prejudice

 has been caused to defendant No. 2 by reserving right to him

 to raise this ground during hearing of appeal. As it is, this

 point has already been taken by him in his grounds of appeal. Hence there is no error in the impugned order regarding this

 aspect also. 4(v) It is also to be noticed that the present petition has

 been filed under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. It

 would be beneficial to refer here to the judgment of the

 Hon'ble Apex Court reported in Garment Craft vs Prakash

 Chand Goel , (2022) 4 SCC 181, wherein the

 nature and scope of exercise of supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 was reiterated. The Hon'ble Apex Court held that

 while exercising supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of

 the Constitution of India, the High Court does not act as a

 Court of First Appeal to reappreciate, reweigh the evidence or

 facts upon which the determination under challenge is based. Supervisory jurisdiction is not to correct every error of fact or ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS 20 even a legal flaw when the final finding is justified or can be

 supported. Power under Article 227 is to be exercised where

 . there is no evidence at all to justify or the finding is so

 perverse, that no reasonable person can possibly come to

 such a conclusion arrived at by the Courts below. Relevant part of the judgment reads as under: The petitioner has failed to bring his case as urged

 within the ambit of parameters laid down for exercise of

 supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution of

 India. For all the aforesaid reasons, no case for interference

 in the impugned order is made out. Petition being devoid of

 merits is dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, shall also

 stand disposed of accordingly. It goes without saying that above observations are

 confined to the adjudication of present petition only. (Jyotsna Rewal Dua),
 Judge. June 20 , 2022 (PK) ::: Downloaded on - 22/06/2022 20:03:03 :::CIS