1. Heard Sri Vimal Kumar Pandey, learned counsel for the applicant as well as Sri V.K.S. Parmar, learned A.G.A. for the State and also perused the record. 2. The present anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant in F.I.R./Case Crime No. 266 of 2023, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 506 IPC, Police Station Civil Lines, District Meerut, with a prayer to enlarge him on anticipatory bail. 3. As per prosecution story, the informant Atar Singh instituted an FIR at Police Station Civil Lines, Meerut, alleging that he was well known to co-accused person Lalit Tyagi, who introduced him to the owner of a 3-storey house measuring 54.34 square metres and agreement on stamp paper was signed between the parties to purchase the said house for a consideration of Rs. 31,83,000/-. The informant is stated to have given Rs. 20 thousand to co-accused person Rakesh Babu, as advance and the informant is stated to have applied for loan at ICICI Bank, Branch Mangal Pandey Nagar, to pay the rest amount. In the meantime, Rs. 4 lakhs in two transactions are stated to have been transferred through RTGS account of Rakesh Babu. Meanwhile, the informant is stated to have kept on contacting the applicant, who happens to be the Assistant Manager and co-accused person Sanjeev Som @ Sachin Som, who happens to be Manager of the said Bank, for disbursement of the loan amount. 4. It is also alleged that the informant is stated to have transferred an amount of Rs. 37,300/- through PhonePe to the account of the applicant for the payment of installment of the loan. The applicant and the co-accused persons in collusion, are stated to have usurped an amount of loan to the tune of Rs. 27 lakhs, which is stated to have been sanctioned to the informant. The sale deed of the said house is stated to have not been executed to the informant as yet. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has stated that the applicant is maliciously being prosecuted in the present case due to ulterior motive and has the apprehension of his arrest. The applicant has nothing to do with the said offence as alleged by the prosecution. Learned counsel has further stated that the applicant is a bank employee and his bonafide act is but evident from the Annexure-3 filed with the affidavit accompanying the application, whereby the Bank Manager Sachin Som had written a letter to the S.S.P. Meerut on 7.8.2023 alleging a fraud committed by the informant with the bank. It is stated that the instant FIR is a counterblast to the said application dated 7.8.2023 and is just a misuse of the process of law. Learned counsel has next stated that the applicant is a bonafide person and the amount remitted to his account has been duly deposited with the bank as installment. 6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. It is further submitted that the applicant has no criminal antecedents. In case, the anticipatory bail application of the applicant is allowed, he will not misuse the liberty and shall cooperate with trial. 7. On the other hand, learned A.G.A. has vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail but unable to dispute the submissions raised by the learned counsel for the applicant and also the fact that the applicant has no criminal history. 8. On due consideration to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and in view of the law laid down by the Apex Court in the case of " Sushila Aggarwal Vs. State (NCT of Delhi )-2020 SCC online SC 98", the applicant is entitled to be granted anticipatory bail in this case. 9. Without expressing any opinion upon ultimate merits of the case either ways which may adversely affect the trial of the case, the anticipatory bail application of the applicant is allowed. 10. In the event of arrest of the applicant, Gaurav Panwar involved in the aforesaid case crime number, shall be released on anticipatory bail till the conclusion of trial on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Presiding Officer/Court Concerned, with the conditions that:- 11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, the court below shall have the liberty to cancel the bail granted to the applicant. 12. It is made clear that observations made in granting anticipatory bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date :- 3.4.2024
 
Shalini
 
(Justice Krishan Pahal)