Mr. S. Bandopadhyay
 Ms. Soma Kar Ghosh
 ...for the petitioner

 Before the Hon'ble Justice Dipankar Datta

 Heard on : 14.9.2007 and 28.9.2007

 Judgment on : 4.3.2008

 The petitioner at the material time was the Branch Manager of Tangra

Branch of the respondent bank. A disciplinary proceeding was initiated against

him vide charge sheet dated 5.12.98. Enquiry followed and ultimately the

petitioner was dismissed from service by an order dated 1.2.2000 issued by his

disciplinary authority, viz. the Deputy General Manager. Legality of the
 disciplinary proceeding culminating in the order dismissing the petitioner from

service is the subject matter of challenge in this petition. Mr. Bandopadhyay, learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner contended

that the charge sheet does not disclose any offence and any action pursuant

thereto ought to be declared inoperative. He next submitted that the entire

disciplinary proceeding commencing with issuance of charge sheet and

culminating in the order of dismissal stands vitiated for gross violation of

principles of natural justice. According to him, the petitioner was never served

with (i) the charge sheet dated 5.12.1998; (ii) the order of the disciplinary

authority appointing an Inquiring Authority; (iii) the report of enquiry finding him

guilty of the charges; and (iv) the final order of dismissal and, therefore, he was

deprived of reasonable opportunity to participate in the proceedings and to raise

his defence. Arbitrariness and malafide being writ large, he prayed for setting

aside of the entire disciplinary proceeding including the order of dismissal and

for a direction on the respondent Bank to reinstate the petitioner in service with

full back wages. The writ petition was taken up for consideration on 14.9.2007. None

appeared for the respondent bank on that date. Having heard Mr.

Bandopadhayay, the Court directed service of notice on the learned Advocate for

the respondent bank informing him that the writ petition would be taken up for

further consideration on 28.9.2007. Notice was duly served and an Affidavit-of-

service filed in Court. It was directed to be retained with the records. However,
 the bank was again not represented on 28.9.2007. Learned Counsel appearing

for the petitioner was heard finally and judgment was reserved. Affidavit-in-opposition to the writ petition has not been filed by the

respondent Bank in Court, although copy thereof was served on the petitioner's

learned Advocate. Since the Court did not have the benefit of hearing arguments

on behalf of the respondent bank, its affidavit-in-opposition (copy furnished to

learned Advocate for the petitioner) has been taken into consideration for

deciding the issue(s) raised herein. The sequence of events as depicted in the affidavit-in-opposition of the

respondent bank is as follows : (b) The petitioner was placed under suspension by letter of the bank dated

 21.10.1997 in view of receipt of complaints from the contituents of

 Tangra branch alleging fraud in various accounts. Since the petitioner

 was not available in the Tangra branch and had proceeded to an

 undisclosed destination, the suspension letter was addressed to the

 petitioner and despatched to six different addresses known to the bank. (c) The petitioner was suspected of involvement in various other frauds, as

 complained by various constituents as a result of which complaint was

 lodged before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI for short) vide

 letter dated 12.2.98. On receipt of the complaint, the same was

 registered as First Information Report by the CBI and criminal

 investigation was commenced. (d) In course of investigation, presence of the petitioner was required by the

 CBI for interrogation and, as such, communications were sent to the

 petitioner to all available addresses but the same were either returned

 back unserved or not replied to by him. Since the petitioner was not co-

 operating with the CBI in connection with the investigation initiated by

 it, departmental proceeding was initiated vide charge sheet dated

 5.12.1998. The petitioner evaded receipt of the charge sheet and notice

 of enquiry despite sending of the same to his various addresses known

 to the bank. (e) On 16.2.1999 the petitioner was informed of the decision of the

 disciplinary authority to hold departmental enquiry for ascertaining the
 truth into the allegations/charges levelled against him. Names of the

 Inquiring Authority and the Presenting Officer were intimated to him

 requesting him to attend departmental enquiry as per the schedule of

 date, time and venue to be fixed by the Inquiring Authority from time to

 time. (f) The petitioner having failed to appear before the CBI, warrant of arrest

 was issued against him on 8.3.99. The petitioner moved this Court for

 bail and for cancellation of warrant of arrest. (g) The petitioner also invoked the criminal revisional jurisdiction of this

 Court for quashing the investigation undertaken by the CBI on the basis

 of the complaint lodged by the respondent bank. However, the

 application was rejected by this Court and special leave petition filed

 thereagainst was also dismissed. (h) The petitioner had also filed W.P. No. 10441(W) of 1999 before this

 Court praying for release of subsistence allowance. Copy of the petition

 had been received by the Bank on 8.4.1999. An order was passed by a

 learned Judge on 30.9.1999 allowing the petitioner's prayer for

 subsistence allowance upon compliance with Regulation 14(3) of the

 respondent bank's Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Regulations. The

 petitioner filed a contempt application alleging willful violation of the

 said order, which has since been disposed of by an order dated

 11.7.2000. (i) Enquiry in connection with the disciplinary proceedings was scheduled

 to be held on 5.4.99 at 3.30 P.M. The petitioner was not present. In

 such circumstances, the enquiry was postponed for one hour and,

 thereafter, deferred to 24.5.1999 at 3.30 P.M. in order to enable the

 petitioner raise defence. (j) On 24.5.1999, the enquiry started at 3.30 P.M. but the petitioner did

 not turn up. It was postponed till 4 P.M. but when the petitioner did not

 turn up at all, 21.6.1999 was fixed as the date for submission of

 management exhibits and list of witnesses. (k) Since the petitioner was absenting in the enquiry, copies of minutes of

 enquiry were sent to the various addresses of the petitioner to make him

 aware of the developments of the disciplinary proceedings. (l) On 21.6.1999, the enquiry started as per schedule. The petitioner again

 chose not to appear. Documents sought to be relied on by the

 prosecution were disclosed and the enquiry was adjourned till

 23.6.1999 for submitting copies of documents. (m) Further hearing in connection with the enquiry was held on

 23.6.1999 when the petitioner in spite of prior intimation from the

 respondent bank failed to appear. A decision was taken by the Inquiring

 Authority to hold the proceeding ex parte. The proceedings of enquiry

 along with exhibits placed on behalf of the prosecution were forwarded

 to the petitioner at all the available addresses informing him of the next
 date of enquiry (read 8.7.1999) and requesting him to attend to exercise

 his valuable right of cross-examination. (n) The petitioner despite being aware of the ongoing enquiry requested for

 a copy of the charge sheet only on 5.7.99 by his letter, copy of which

 was received by the bank only on 10.7.1999. He had on 6.7.1999 by a

 telegram addressed to the Inquiring Authority requested him not to hold

 enquiry on 8.7.1999, but upon receipt of such request, the Inquiring

 Authority by a return telegram dated 7.7.1999 intimated the petitioner

 at his Jalandhar address that enquiry could not be postponed. Such

 information was also sent by speed post. (o) No response was received from the petitioner and the Inquiring

 Authority conducted enquiry ex parte on 8.7.1999. Since the prayer of

 the petitioner for adjournment of the enquiry on 8.7.1999 was not

 accepted, the enquiry was duly held on that date when witnesses on

 behalf of the management were duly examined and their statements

 were recorded. (p) The minutes of the enquiry held on 8.7.1999 was sent by courier to the

 address of the petitioner at Jalandhar but the same was returned

 unserved. Thereafter, he never tried to contact the respondent bank or

 to find out the fate of enquiry held on 8.7.99. (q) On 17.9.99, the disciplinary authority issued a second show cause

 notice. The same along with a copy of the finding of the Inquiring

 Authority dated 9.8.1999, a copy of the charge sheet dated 5.12.98 and
 a copy of the order dated 16.2.99. were sent to the Jalandhar office of

 the respondent bank so that service on the petitioner could be effected

 manually by hand. The Jalandhar office of the respondent bank tried

 their level best to effect service but in spite of vigorous efforts, the

 petitioner could not be located at Jalandhar and all papers were

 returned by the Jalandhar office vide their letter dated 23.9.99. (r) The petitioner did not reply to the second show cause notice.

 Consequently, the disciplinary authority by an order dated 1.2.2000

 passed an order of dismissal upon consideration of the facts of the case

 and the records of enquiry. The order of dismissal was communicated to

 the various addresses of the petitioner available with the respondent

 bank by registered post, as well as to his advocate-on-record in

 Calcutta. The letter, however, did not reach the advocate-on-record of

 the petitioner due to a clerical mistake in the address of the advocate

 but the remaining letters were returned back to it. Having been left with

 no other alternative, the respondent bank served copy of the dismissal

 order dated 1.2.2000 through their Advocates M/s. Sandersons &

 Morgans on the advocate of the petitioner vide letter dated 14.3.2000.

 According to the bank, the petitioner was provided with reasonable

opportunity to defend himself in the disciplinary proceeding. Communications

were all sent to him at each stage of the departmental proceedings giving the

petitioner opportunity to remain present for defending his case. However, he
 chose not to attend and the Inquiring Authority had no alternative but to proceed

ex parte against him. Findings of enquiry were forwarded to the petitioner but he

did not respond. On consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case as

well as the report of the Inquiring Authority, final order of dismissal was passed

which does not suffer from any infirmity and, accordingly, the writ petition

warrants dismissal. The charge sheet read in its entirety, prima facie, discloses misconduct

committed by the petitioner in discharge of his duties which have been

considered to be prejudicial to the interests of the bank. This Court is unable to

accept the contention of Mr. Bandopadhyay that the charge sheet does not

disclose any offence. The contention is thus rejected. On the basis of the materials on record, this Court is called upon to decide

as to whether the petitioner had due notice of the disciplinary proceedings or not

and further as to whether the action of the respondent bank in proceeding

against him ex parte resulting in an order of dismissal being passed is justified or

not. Before proceeding further, this Court reminds itself of the proposition of

law laid down by the Apex Court in Bharat Singh vs. State of Haryana reported in

AIR 1988 SC 2181, which is as follows : Since the petitioner has pleaded non service of chargesheet, order of

appointment of Inquiring Authority, notices of enquiry (barring one), the enquiry

report, the second show cause notice and the order of dismissal, the onus would

lie on the respondent bank to plead and prove that due service of

chargesheet/notices/orders at all stages of the disciplinary proceedings was

effected on the petitioner. This Court would now proceed to ascertain how far this

onus has been discharged by the bank. Charge sheet was issued by the respondent bank on 5.12.1998. It appears

therefrom that the same was marked to the petitioner with three different

addresses, the first being the official accommodation at Ray Bahadur Road,

Calcutta, the second being the Tangra Branch office at Calcutta and the third

being an address in Jalandhar. In paragraph 5(n) of the affidavit-in-opposition, it has been averred by the

respondent bank that charge sheet in connection with departmental proceeding

was sent to the petitioner along with notice of enquiry to the various addresses

known to the bank but he had evaded receipt thereof. Documentary evidence in
 support of the statement that the charge sheet along with notice of enquiry were

despatched to the petitioner is conspicuously absent. From the final order passed on 1.2.2000 by the disciplinary authority, this

Court finds that the charge sheet was sought to be served on the petitioner by

sending a copy thereof to the petitioner's accommodation at Ray Bahadur Road,

Calcutta which was received back undelivered. The reason for which it could not

be delivered has not been spelt out. Non-delivery cannot be equated with refusal.

Thus, this Court is unable to hold that there was refusal on the part of the

petitioner to accept the charge sheet. Similarly, copy of charge sheet which was

sent to the petitioner's address at Jalandhar was stated to have been received

back with the remarks "left without address, returned to sender". However, no

copy of the envelope containing the charge sheet and bearing the postal remark referred to above has been annexed to the said affidavit-in-opposition of the

respondent bank. In the absence of a copy of such envelope having been annexed

to the affidavit-in-opposition, this Court is again unable to accept the stand of

the respondent bank that the envelope was properly addressed and despatched

to the petitioner's address at his native place. So far as the other statement in the

order of dismissal that the copy of the charge sheet sent to the branch office at

Tangra had been displayed at the branch notice board is concerned (as confirmed

by the Branch Manager, Tangra vide his letter dated 11.10.99), this Court neither

finds such a pleading in the body of the affidavit-in-opposition nor has the letter

dated 11.12.98 been brought on record. For the reasons mentioned above and on the authority of the decision in Bharat Singh (supra), this Court is not convinced that the charge sheet was duly

served on the petitioner. Order dated 16.2.1999 (at page 59 of the said affidavit) of the disciplinary

authority appointing the Inquiring Authority and the Presenting Officer has been

pleaded in paragraph 5(o) of the affidavit-in-opposition. In the said paragraph, it

has been further averred that copy thereof had been addressed to the various

addresses of the petitioner. It does not appear from the affidavit that any attempt

was made by the respondent bank to serve it on the petitioner. There is no

document annexed to the said affidavit which would establish the stand of the

respondent bank that the said order was despatched to the petitioner by

registered post or otherwise and that he had refused to accept the same. The

writings on the copy of the order dated 16.2.1999 are hazy and no conclusion

can be arrived at on the basis thereof. In sub-paragraphs (q) to (u) of paragraph 5 of the said affidavit, the

respondent bank has given the narration of facts in relation to enquiry conducted

by the Inquiring Authority on 5.4.1999, 24.5.1999, 21.6.1999 and 23.6.1999.

Copies of the minutes of enquiry are part of the affidavit-in-opposition. It does

not appear from any of the proceedings that the Inquiring Authority recorded its

satisfaction that charge sheet was duly served on the petitioner, yet, he chose to

abstain from the enquiry. It further appears therefrom that each day's

proceedings were directed to be despatched to the petitioner for his information

so that he is in a position to attend the enquiry on the following date. However,
 on the next date of enquiry, it does not appear that the Inquiring Authority

satisfied himself that copy of the earlier day's proceeding was duly despatched to

the petitioner but was not received by him or that despite receipt thereof, he

failed to appear without just reason. As a result whatever good intention the

Inquiring Authority may have had to extend reasonable opportunity of defence to

the petitioner was thoroughly and entirely frustrated in the absence of any

recording that the petitioner despite being informed of the date of next sitting, did

not appear before it with a view to avoid the enquiry. The incidents that took place in July, 1999, just prior to holding of enquiry

on 8.7.1999, are significant. For the first time after the disciplinary proceedings

commenced, the petitioner had responded on receipt of minutes of proceedings

held on 23.6.1999 by the Inquiring Authority, pursuant whereto 8.7.1999 was

fixed as the next date. By his registered letter dated 5.7.99 addressed to the disciplinary

authority, the petitioner had categorically denied receipt of copy of the charge

sheet as well as the order appointing the Inquiring Authority. He had, in view of

non-receipt of the same, requested the disciplinary authority to apprise him full

facts of the case as also to send him a copy of the charge sheet. A copy of the

letter dated 5.7.1999 was forwarded to the Inquiring Authority with a request not

to hold enquiry till documents in terms of his request were received from the

disciplinary authority and he had offered his comments thereon. He had also

requested for sending of photocopies of the enquiry proceedings held on the

different days so far. By a telegram of even date (at page 85 of the affidavit-in-
 opposition), a request was also made to the Inquiring Authority not to proceed

with the enquiry scheduled on 8.7.1999 and that a detailed letter would follow.

By return telegram dated 7.7.1999 (page 84 of the affidavit-in-opposition), the

Inquiring Authority sought to inform the petitioner regarding non-receipt of the

letter referred to in his telegram and informed him that enquiry cannot be

postponed and he was requested to attend the same. By another writing which

was sought to be sent by post, the petitioner's prayer was turned down by the

Inquiring Authority on the ground that he proposed to hold enquiry on day to day

basis so that it is completed on time. The petitioner was again sought to be

reminded that he had been provided reasonable and fair opportunity in the

matter and therefore his requests for deferring the enquiry could not be accepted. In view of the contents of the telegram dated 5.7.99 of the petitioner and

the fact that a detailed letter of even date had in fact been issued by him from

Jalandhar which reasonably did take some time to reach the Inquiring Authority

stationed in Calcutta, this Court is of the considered view that the Inquiring

Authority acted hastily in rejecting the prayer of the petitioner and by closing the

enquiry on 8.7.1999 itself. The Inquiring Authority ought to have realized that

while refusing the request for postponement of enquiry by his telegram dated

7.7.99, it would have been impossible for the petitioner to act thereon and to

report before him on 8.7.1999 to attend the enquiry. The petitioner not having

attended any earlier sitting of enquiry and having made a request for

postponement of the enquiry in response to the notice issued by the Inquiring

Authority and received for the first time, it would have been fair, just, proper and
 in keeping with principles of natural justice if the enquiry had not been closed on

8.7.99. The disciplinary authority while writing its order dated 1.2.2000 has set

out portions from the report of the Inquiring Authority. It appears therefrom that

the Inquiring Authority had duly received on 9.7.1999 the letter dated 5.7.1999

of the petitioner praying for postponement of the enquiry on the ground of non-

service of the charge sheet as well as the order of appointment of the Inquiring

Authority and the Presenting Officer. The prayer of the petitioner requesting

postponement having been received by the Inquiring Authority a day after close

of enquiry proceedings, non-consideration of such request appears to be

unjustified in that the Inquiring Authority had the necessary authority and

jurisdiction to recall the order closing enquiry after satisfying itself that the

charge sheet had indeed not been served on the petitioner as alleged by him. It is

held that the Inquiring Authority, on facts and in the circumstances, acted

unfairly and in violation of principles of natural justice. It has also been recorded by the Inquiring Authority that if the petitioner

could send telegram on 5.7.1999, he could have also attended departmental

enquiry from its very beginning and sending of telegram at a belated stage was

nothing else but a design to stop him from holding an enquiry. The observations

of the Inquiring Authority, for reasons mentioned above, cannot be accepted. A

perusal of the letter dated 5.7.1999 of the petitioner would clearly reveal that not

having received the charge sheet and the order appointing the Inquiring
 Authority and minutes of the proceedings so far held by him, he had prayed for

sending of the same to him. In view of non-recording of any satisfaction that the

minutes of proceedings of enquiry held on the days prior to 8.7.99 had been

served on the petitioner or that he had knowledge of the same, the Inquiring

Authority was absolutely unjustified in viewing the request of the petitioner as a

design to stop him from holding enquiry. The order of the disciplinary authority

agreeing with the Inquiring Authority on this point clearly shows non-application

of mind and, therefore, cannot be upheld. It also appears that copy of the order of the Inquiring Authority refusing to

grant postponement of enquiry fixed on 8.7.1999 was sent by speed post to the

petitioner on 7.7.1999 from the New Market Post Office, Calcutta. However, there

is no evidence before this Court to establish that such letter was tendered to the

petitioner prior to 8.7.99 and, therefore, to presume that the petitioner despite

knowledge of rejection of his prayer for postponement of enquiry did not attend it,

as contended by the Inquiring Authority in his report (portion extracted in the

order of the disciplinary authority), does not impress this Court at all. The disciplinary authority while holding that the petitioner had not replied

to the report of the Inquiring Authority which was sent to him vide letter dated

17.9.99 also does not appear to have satisfied himself that the letter dated

17.9.99 was refused by the petitioner or he evaded service with ill-motive. In

terms of the law laid down in the decision of the Apex Court reported in (1993) 4

SCC 727 : Managing Director, ECIL vs. Karunakaran, it is the duty of the

disciplinary authority to furnish the chargesheeted employee with the findings of
 enquiry, if major penalty is called for. In the present case, there is no material on

record to convince this Court that the report of enquiry had duly been

despatched to the petitioner seeking his comments, yet, he chose not to

comment. Another interesting feature of this case is that the respondent bank had

received copy of the writ petition of the petitioner seeking subsistence allowance

on 8.4.1999 [paragraph 5 (aa) of the affidavit-in-opposition]. If the bank really

had an intention of extending reasonable opportunity of defence to the petitioner,

it could have furnished documents in connection with the disciplinary

proceedings to his learned Advocate as had been done in case of the final order of

dismissal. No such attempt appears to have been made which evinces an

intention of the bank to portray a picture of extending reasonable opportunity to

the petitioner to defend without in reality affording any such opportunity. This Court is convinced that this particular case falls under the "no

notice"/"no hearing" category of cases enunciated in the case of S.K. Sharma vs

State Bank of Patiala reported in AIR 1996 SC 1669. Ex-parte enquiry conducted

against the petitioner is held to be unjustified, unfair and unreasonable. For the foregoing reasons, this Court holds that the disciplinary

proceedings initiated against the petitioner was conducted in gross violation of

principles of natural justice and the entire proceedings culminating in the final

order of dismissal, except the charge sheet, is liable to be set aside. It is ordered

accordingly. The respondent bank is granted liberty to proceed against the petitioner

afresh in accordance with law. The petitioner shall have three weeks time from

date to reply to the charge sheet. The bank shall, thereafter, hold enquiry in

terms of the extant rules and conclude the same as expeditiously as possible but

positively within six months from date of receipt of reply from the petitioner.

Documents sought to be relied on by the bank to drive home the charges shall be

furnished to the petitioner to raise his defence. Any document, in the custody of

the Bank, may be allowed to be relied on by the petitioner provided he satisfies

the Inquiring Authority that the same are relevant for the enquiry. The petitioner

shall cooperate in the inquiry. By way of abundant caution, notices shall be

served on him and to his learned Advocate by registered post. If, however, he

chooses not to attend the enquiry or to cooperate with the Inquiring Authority,

proceedings may be concluded ex parte. The petitioner shall be reinstated in service immediately but for the limited

purpose of completing enquiry in terms of this order. He shall be deemed to be

under suspension from this date and throughout the period enquiry is held in

terms of this order, he shall be paid subsistence allowance on the basis of the

last pay drawn by him while he was in service. The petitioner, however, shall not

be entitled to back wages at present but in the event he is exonerated, he shall be

entitled to all service benefits according to law as if no disciplinary proceedings

had been initiated against him at all. The writ petition stands allowed to the extent mentioned above, without

costs. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be

furnished to the applicant within 3 days from date of putting in requisites

therefor. (DIPANKAR DATTA, J.)