HON'BLE SHRI PRAMOD KUMAR VARMA, MEMBER
 PRESENT: - 2. In nutshell the facts of the case are that the respondent No.1 /

 complainant has a savings bank account No.30012542288 with the

 appellant / opposite party No.1 Bank, in which he used to do online

 banking and UPI transactions but from April 2019 the UPI transaction

 facility in the said account was stopped. On 27.09.2019 from the above

 account of the respondent No.1/ complainant, some unknown person

 withdrew Rs.99,990/- by 10 withdrawals of equal amount of Rs.9,999/-.

 The respondent No.1 / complainant immediately intimated the opposite

 party No.1 Bank and then visited the Bank and enquired about the said

 withdrawals. He was told that in all 11 transactions of equal amount of

 Rs.9,999/- through UPI was done out of which amount of one transaction

 was reversed. They assured that the amount will be reversed in the bank

 account in few days. The respondent No.1/ complainant alleged that OTP

 did not come in the registered mobile number and without any OTP all

 the 11 transactions were done due to negligence of the opposite party

 No.1 Bank, whereas the UPI transaction facility was stopped in the Allowed Page 2 of 8 Appeal Nos.: Branch Manager, State Bank of India Date of Pronouncement: account since April 2019. On this ground alleging deficiency in service the

 complaint was filed seeking directions as aforesaid in paragraph No.1. 3. The appellant/ opposite party No.1, in the written version except

 the admitted facts, denying the adverse allegations against it, averred that

 the Bank used to give all the information and care about use of the Unified

 Payments Interface (UPI) to the customers who avails the said facility,

 which were given to the respondent No.1/ complainant also. In this case

 the respondent No.1/ complainant himself negligently shared information

 regarding the UPI transaction like password, OTP number etc. to some

 unknown person who withdrew the amount by UPI through Paytm. It is

 further averred that from the bank statement of the respondent No.1/

 complainant it appears that the transactions were made through Paytm,

 which is generally possible when it is made between Paytm account to

 Paytm account or after scanning the Barcode, hence the statement that

 without using OTP all the transactions were done is false. In fact some

 unknown person has misused the UPI and confidential information after

 receiving it due to negligence of the respondent No.1/ complainant and

 has done all the withdrawals for which the appellant / opposite party

 No.1 Bank is not liable. Thus, they have not committed any deficiency in

 service, hence the complaint be dismissed with cost of Rs.2,00,000/-. 4. The respondent No.2/ opposite party No.2, in the written version

 denying all allegations leveled against it has averred that the complaint is

 baseless and frivolous which deserves to be dismissed. It is further

 averred that there are no specific allegations against the respondent No.2/

 opposite party No.2 in the complaint. The general terms and conditions of

 availing services of the Paytm, available in the website

 www.paytmbank.com, were reproduced and it was specifically averred Allowed Page 3 of 8 Appeal Nos.: Branch Manager, State Bank of India Date of Pronouncement: that the customer was liable for all losses for any misuse that have

 happened with his / her consent or knowledge. It was further averred

 that the complainant had shared all the necessary credentials with the

 fraudsters due to which the fraud took place and now the complainant is

 taking advantage of its own negligence. On the above grounds, it was

 prayed that the respondent No.2 / opposite party No.2 has not committed

 any deficiency in service, the complaint is false, frivolous and

 misconceived hence the same be dismissed. 5. Learned District Commission considering the rival contentions of

 all parties, documents and taking into consideration the Guideline dated

 06.07.2017 issued by the Reserve Bank of India has allowed the complaint

 and passed the impugned order with the directions as aforesaid in

 paragraph No.1. 6. We have heard arguments of all parties, perused the record of the

 District Commission as well as the impugned order. We have also gone

 through the written arguments filed by learned counsel for the respondent

 No.1 / complainant. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant/ opposite party No.1 Bank has

 argued that in the information given to the Superintendant of Police by

 the respondent No.1/ complainant he admitted that he shared the link to

 an unknown person. He has further argued that for mobile to mobile

 transfer of amount through Paytm, always an OTP is generated and sent

 to the registered mobile of the account holder and only when the same

 OTP is entered, the transfer of amount becomes possible and this process

 is also admitted by the respondent No.2/opposite party No.2 Paytm. In

 the transactions in question the respondent No.1/complainant himself Allowed Page 4 of 8 Appeal Nos.: Branch Manager, State Bank of India Date of Pronouncement: was negligent in using UPI. It is also argued that for doing UPI transfer,

 the Bank never send OTP and the transaction can be done by using M-

 PIN, which is created by the account holder himself. In this case in all the

 transactions in question, M-PIN was used through the registered mobile

 number of the account holder, in which the bank cannot be held liable. He

 prayed that learned District Commission has failed to appreciate the facts

 and documents submitted before it and passed the impugned order,

 which is needs to be set aside. 8. Learned counsel for the respondent No.1/ complainant has

 supported the impugned order and argued that it is just and proper which

 needs not to be interfered with. 9. Learned counsel appeared for the opposite party No.2/ respondent

 No.2 submitted that they have complied with their share of the impugned

 order passed by the learned District Commission. They sent D/D

 No.578521 dated 23.03.2022 amount Rs.60,000/- to the respondent No.1/

 complainant. The respondent No.1/ complainant himself as well as his

 learned counsel both also confirms the above fact of payment of

 Rs.60,000/-. 10. The guideline issued by Reserve Bank of India dated 06th July 2017

 vide RBI/2017-18/15, No.DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 and

 District Commission has also based its finding upon the said guideline on

 'Zero Liability of a Customer' given at Sr. No.6. It is pertinent to mention

 here the relevant portion of the guideline which are as under : - The information given to the Superintendent of Police Korba vide

 letter dated 10.10.2019, has been brought on record, which is marked as

 Ex. OP (1) - 1. In this letter the respondent No.1/ complainant has stated

 in detail the entire episode of 27.09.2019 i.e. the date of withdrawal in

 question. He stated that cyber criminal contacted him and told that he

 could refund his amount of Rs.23,000/- which was fraudulently

 transferred to SBI and Allahabad Bank account through mobikwik. He

 sent an encrypted message and thereafter he sent a link to be opened. The

 respondent No.1/ complainant stated that he opened the link and

 unknowingly entered the last four digit of his SBI savings bank account

 number and UPI ID of Google Pay in the Google form opened through

 that link and submitted the information. Just when he submitted the form

 the unauthorized UPI transactions started in his savings bank account. Allowed Page 6 of 8 Appeal Nos.: Branch Manager, State Bank of India Date of Pronouncement: 11. Looking to the above information given to the Superintendent of

 Police it is abundantly clear that the respondent No.1 / complainant

 himself clicked a link, filled the form with all confidential credentials of

 his bank account and the UPI transaction and thereafter through UPI the

 amount was transferred by some unknown person. This fact clearly goes

 to show that the respondent No.1 /complainant has negligently shared

 the payment credentials by way of clicking the unauthorized link sent by

 some miscreant and facilitated him to do the transfer of money through

 UPI or in his own way whatever he wanted to do with the savings bank

 account of the respondent No.1/ complainant, to which the miscreant was

 having access at that moment. 12. Learned District Commission has overlooked this admission by

 way of story reported to the Superintendent of Police, by the respondent

 No.1/ complainant himself and has also relied on the irrelevant guideline

 given at Sr. No.6 under '(a) Zero Liability of a Customer' which is not

 applicable in this case as the instant case is not a case of unauthorized

 transaction. In fact the guidelines given at Sr. No.7 (i) under „(b) Limited

 Liability of Customer' of the RBI guideline dated 6th July 2017 is

 applicable in the facts of the present case, which talks about the negligence

 of the customer in sharing payment credentials and according to which

 the customer will have to bear the entire loss until he reports the

 unauthorized transaction to the Bank and for the loss occurred after

 reporting of the unauthorized transaction, the Bank is made liable. In this

 case the fact is nothing of that sort that any transfer of amount was made

 after intimation to the Bank. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of

 the case we do not find any negligence or deficiency in service on the part

 of the Bank. On the contrary, it was the respondent No.1 / complainant Allowed Page 7 of 8 Appeal Nos.: Branch Manager, State Bank of India Date of Pronouncement: who negligently shared payment credentials by way of clicking the

 message sent by some unknown miscreant. Learned District Commission

 has erred in holding the Bank deficient in service and has also made a

 wrong interpretation of the Guideline of the RBI, which needs to be set

 aside. 13. However, so far as the direction in the impugned order to the

 respondent No.2/ opposite party No.2 is concerned, they have not filed

 any appeal or cross-objection and impugned the order of the District

 Commission. In fact the respondent No.2/ opposite party No.2 has

 complied with their part of the order of the learned District Commission

 and have paid Rs.60,000/- (Sixty Thousand) in compliance thereof. The

 respondent No.1/ complainant who is present in person with his learned

 counsel, also confirmed the payment of above amount. Therefore, the

 impugned order so far as the respondent No.2/ opposite party No.2 is

 concerned, it has attained its finality being not challenged. In this situation

 it is made clear that looking to the facts and circumstances of the case the

 impugned order so far as the respondent No.2/ opposite party No.2 is

 concerned the same is untouched by this order. 14. Therefore, with the foregoing discussion, we allow this appeal,

 setting aside the impugned order with regard to the appellant / opposite

 party No.1 Bank holding them deficient in service and the direction given

 to them for payment of half share of the awarded amount. The complaint

 of the respondent / complainant against the appellant / opposite party

 No.1 Bank stands dismissed accordingly. No order as to cost.

 (Justice Gautam Chourdiya) (Gopal Chandra Shil) (Pramod Kumar Varma)
 President Member Member
 /06/2023 /06/2023 /06/2023
 Pronounced On: 21st June 2023 Allowed Page 8 of 8