BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION: INVESTIGATION AND APPEARANCE OF ACCUSED 2. After registration of the FIR, the Investigating Officer
 (hereinafter, "IO") undertook investigation and on
 culmination of the same, the chargesheet against the
 accused was filed. The court took the cognizance against
 the offence and a copy of the chargesheet was supplied to
 the accused in terms of section 207 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter, " CrPC "). On
 finding a prima facie case against the accused, charge
 under section 380 of IPC was framed against the accused
 Deepak Arora on 03.06.2024 and under section 411 IPC
 against the accused Saddam Ansari. The accused persons FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 2 of 17 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Vide order dated
 06.06.2024, the complainant had settled the matter with the
 accused Saddam Ansari and he stood acquitted vide order
 dated 06.06.2024. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE: CCTV footage was provided to the IO. She had given the
 copy of invoice of the mobile phone. The witness had
 correctly identified the mobile phone and had stated that
 the mobile phone was stolen from the bank. In the CCTV
 footage i.e. A-10 stored on the pen drive was run on the
 system and same had run smoothly and between the time
 stamp from 11.40 am to 11.45 am, the accused Deepak
 was seen approaching the desk of the complainant and
 picking up the phone from the desk of the complainant and
 thereafter left the bank premises. At the time of the theft,
 complainant was not present at her desk. She had
 identified the accused. In her cross-examination, she had
 deposed that after she came to know about the theft of her FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 4 of 17 mobile phone, she went to the PS and there online FIR was
 lodged. Police official came to the bank branch on the
 same day and checked the CCTV footage. After some
 days, police informed her that her mobile phone had been
 traced. She had visited the PS during the investigation. She
 had not seen the accused at the PS when she visited the PS
 during the investigation. She had handed over the copy of
 invoice to the IO on the day of the incident. 5. PW-2 SI Sunil Kumar, has stated that on 07.03.2024, he
 was posted as SI at PS South Campus and he was
 performing emergency and his duty hours were from 8.00
 am to 8.00 pm. While on duty, he received DD no.38A
 regarding quarrel at PNB Bank Nanakpura Delhi. He
 reached at the Bank and meanwhile HC Pawan and HC
 Neeraj who were beat staff also arrived at the PNB Bank.
 At the bank, Bank Manager Santosh Kumar met him and
 handed over one apprehended person by them to him,
 namely Deepak Arora s/o Satnam Das. He searched the
 person of Deepak Arora and five mobile phones were
 recovered from him. He asked Deepak Arora about the
 ownership proof of the mobile phones but he failed to
 provide any proof of the ownership and therefore he seized
 the mobile phones. He seized the mobile phones u/s 103 DP Act. Thereafter, they brought the accused Deepak
 Arora to the PS South Campus. He interrogated him and
 recorded his disclosure statement. The accused revealed
 that he was involved in many cases of cheating and online
 fraud and wanted in many FIR. He disclosed the names of
 some PS where the FIR against him were lodged. He FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 5 of 17 confirmed the same from the respective PS and found that
 the accused was wanted in many cases. He arrested the
 accused and conducted his personal search. DD entry no.2
 was made regarding the arrest and proceedings conducted
 by him. He prepared the kalandra u/s 41.1(d) Cr.PC . He
 shared the information of the arrest of the accused with the
 DO of the concerned Police Station. He had correctly
 identified the accused. In his cross-examination, he has
 stated that the case property of the present case was not
 recovered from the accused by him. 6. PW3 Sh. Neeraj Luthra has stated that he had been
 working as Cashier at Vijay Sales, Sector 7 Dwarka since
 April 2022. The tax invoice no.DDW-A-SIA-4630 dated
 26.03.2021 was issued from their shop against the
 purchase of One Plus mobile as mentioned in the invoice,
 wireless one Plus neckband to the buyer Reeta Gupta. The
 said invoice present on the file is shown to the witness and
 asked whether the said invoice was issued by his company.
 Witness stated that said invoice is genuine and issued by
 their company in the name of Reeta Gupta. In his cross-
 examination, he has stated that he had not issued the
 above-mentioned invoice. At the time when the said
 invoice was issued, he was not working at Vijay Sales,
 Sector 7 Dwarka. He stated that the mobile phone and
 neckband mentioned in the invoice were not sold to the
 buyer in his presence. 7. PW4 HC Nihal Singh has stated that on 11.07.2023, he
 was posted as HC at PS Dwarka South. On that day, the
 investigation of the present case was marked to him. On FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 6 of 17 12.07.2023, he approached the complainant Rita Gupta
 and prepared the site plan at her instance. He also obtained
 the invoice of the mobile phone which was stolen in the
 present case and placed the same on record. He recorded
 the statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. He also served notice u/s 91 Cr.PC on the Manager SBI, Sector 10 Dwarka to provide
 him CCTV footage of the relevant time. The footage was
 provided to him in the pen drive by the bank official. He
 seized the pen drive. He gave notice u/s 91 and 92 Cr.PC
 on the Nodal Officer, Airtel of the mobile number used in
 the mobile phone of the complainant. He had obtained the
 CDR of the mobile phone of the complainant and when the
 CDR was provided to him, it was found that said mobile
 was being used by one person namely Md Saddam Ansari.
 On 27.08.2023, he alongwith HC Jagdish went to the
 residential address of Saddam Ansari i.e. C-18/2, New
 13/2, Street No.7, Rishi Kadam Marg, Chauhan Bangur,
 Seelam Pur, Delhi. There Saddam Ansari met them and he
 told them that he had purchased the mobile phone in
 question from one person namely Depeak Arora and his
 son Arav Arora for Rs.6000/-. The accused Deepak had
 given the copy of his aadhar card to Md Ansari during the
 sale purchase of the mobile phone. He prepared the
 interrogation report and also seized the copy of aadhar card
 of Deepak and his son provided to him by Md Ansari. He
 also seized the mobile phone recovered from the accused
 Md Ansari. On 03.10.2023, HC Jagdish was sent to
 Haridwar, Uttrakhand for search of the accused Deepak
 Arora as his address in the copy of aadhar card was
 mentioned as Flat No.107, Plot No.4, Sector 4, Deep FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 7 of 17 Ganga Apartment, Sidkul Haridwar, Uttrakhand but
 accused Deepak was not found at the said address.
 Thereafter on 08.03.2024, he received information from
 DO that the accused of the present case was arrested in DD
 No.2A PS South Campus and disclosed his involvement in
 the present case. He has also correctly identified the
 accused as visible in the CCTV footage which was being
 played. In his cross-examination, he has stated that he met
 the complainant after 2.00 PM on 12.07.2023. He
 alongwith HC Jagdish had made the departure entry on
 27.08.2023 before leaving for the house of accused Md
 Ansari. They went to the address of the accused Md Ansari
 in their personal four-wheeler. Accused Md Ansari was
 residing at the first floor of his building. 8. PW- 5 Sh. Amit Lal has stated that he had been working as
 Manager at SBI Bank, Sector 10 Branch, Dwarka, Delhi. He
 had given the CCTV footage in the pen drive to the police
 official of their bank of different cameras dated 11.07.2023.
 In the said CCTV footage between the time stamp of 11.40
 to 11.45 am, one person can be seen stealing the mobile
 phone of Reeta Gupta (bank employee). He had given the
 certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act regarding the
 footage provided by him to the police official. He had given
 true copy of the footage stored in the CCTV surveillance
 system and no tampering was done with the CCTV footage
 while recording or copying the CCTV footage on the pen
 drive. He has correctly identified the accused. In his cross-
 examination, he has refuted the suggestion that he had not
 provided the true copy of CCTV footage to the police
 official. 9. PW 6 Sh. Santosh Kumar has stated that on 07.03.2024, he
 was posted as Manager at PNB Bank, Nanakpura Branch.
 On the whatsapp group of PNB Bank staff, one message
 was being circulated that somebody was committing online
 fraud of the account holder of the PNB Bank. On the
 abovesaid date, one person came at their branch at about
 11.00 am and was looking here and there in the bank
 premises. The face of the said person was matching with
 the suspect whose picture was circulated on the whatsapp
 group. On suspicion, his name and account details, if any,
 at their branch were asked but he failed to provide any
 information and tried to flee away from the bank but he
 was apprehended with the help of public persons.
 Thereafter, police was called and said person was handed
 over to the police. He has correctly identified the accused.
 His statement was recorded by the police of PS South
 Campus. In his cross-examination, the photograph of
 accused was shared in the whatsapp group of the bank
 officials. In the said group, no information was shared
 regarding the availability of the accused at their branch on
 the above-mentioned date and time. The accused was not
 known to him prior to apprehension. In the whatsapp
 group of PNB officials, manager of the other branches
 were also member. He had seen the photograph on the
 whatsapp group of the accused one day prior to the date
 when he visited their branch. The photograph of the said
 accused was circulated on 06.03.2024 and 07.03.2024. The
 police did not seize his phone. The police had not taken the
 screenshot of the messages of the whatsapp group wherein
 the photograph of the accused was shared. He had not FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 9 of 17 given any information to police on 06.03.2024 regarding
 the commission of the offences by the accused. No attempt
 was made by the accused at his branch to steal anything.
 No complaint qua accused was received at their branch by
 any account holder of our branch. Information was shared
 in the group that the accused had made attempt of theft on
 07.03.2024 of mobile phone from the Bank of Sarojni
 Nagar branch. His name was not revealed in the group as
 the same was recorded in the CCTV footage of the bank.
 The public persons had apprehended the accused. 10.Thereafter, before the start of defence evidence in order to
 allow the accused to personally explain the incriminating
 circumstances appearing in evidence against him, the
 statement of the accused persons was recorded on
 21.08.2024 without oath under section 313 CrPC, wherein
 he stated that he is innocent and has falsely been
 implicated in the present case. He further stated that he
 does not want to lead defence evidence. ARGUMENTS 11.I have heard the Ld. APP for the State and Ld. LAC for the
 accused at length. I have also given my thoughtful
 consideration to the material appearing on record. 12.It is argued by the Ld. APP for the State that all the
 ingredients of the offence are fulfilled in the present case.
 He has argued that prosecution witnesses have FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 10 of 17 categorically deposed about the commission of offence and
 there is no ground to disbelieve their testimony. He further
 contends that the documentary evidence has proved the
 offence beyond reasonable doubt. As such, it is prayed that
 the accused be punished for the said offences. 13. Per contra, the Ld. LAC for the accused has argued that the
 State has failed to establish its case beyond reasonable
 doubt. The Ld. LAC for the accused person further argued
 that the entire case of the prosecution is false and
 fabricated and the same is evident from the material
 inconsistencies and contradictions borne out from the
 material on record. It is argued that the prosecution has
 failed to discharge the burden cast upon it. As such, it is
 prayed that the accused person be acquitted for the said
 offence. INGREDIENTS OF THE OFFENCE: 14. In the instant case, the accused, Deepak Arora has been
 charged for the offence under section 380 of IPC. The
 relevant section is reproduced as under, Section 380 IPC prescribes punishment for theft in a
 dwelling house. The theft is defined under Section 378 IPC
 and the essential ingredients to constitute an offence under Section 380 IPC are as follows- house or place used for safe custody of property. 15.Needless to mention, in criminal law, the burden of proof
 on the prosecution is that of beyond reasonable doubt. The
 presumption of innocence of the accused has to be rebutted
 by the prosecution by adducing cogent evidence that points
 towards the guilt of the accused. The evidence in the
 present case is to be weighed keeping in view the above
 legal standards. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE: 16.In order to prove the case of the prosecution for the
 offence of theft in a bank under section 380 of IPC, it has
 to be proved that the accused, Deepak Arora had entered
 the SBI Bank and had committed the theft of the mobile
 phone of the complainant, Reeta Gupta. Before
 appreciating the evidence, brought on record by the
 prosecution, a reference be made to the law of appreciating
 evidence of the witnesses. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court
 in case titled as Satish Bombaiya vs. State , 1991 JCC
 6147, had observed: 17.In the case at hand, the star witness of the prosecution is
 PW-1 Reeta Gupta, being the complainant who had
 deposed that on 11.07.2023, her mobile phone make One
 Plus Nord was kept on her desk and the same was stolen
 by an unknown person. However, on checking the CCTV
 footage vide Ex. P-2, one person was seen stealing the
 mobile phone of the complainant who is identified as the
 accused, namely, Deepak Arora when the complainant was
 not at her desk. PW-5, Amit Lal, Manager, SBI Bank had
 also provided the certificate under section 65B of the
 Indian Evidence Act which authenticates the CCTV
 footage placed on record. Moreover, the witness, PW-1 has
 correctly identified the mobile phone, being the stolen
 property. PW-3, Neeraj Luthra, being the cashier at Vijay
 Sales had verified the invoice vide Ex.PW-3/A and as per
 the same, the complainant is the owner of the stolen
 property. Her testimony is completely reliable and
 trustworthy. The court does not see any reason to
 disbelieve the testimony of PW-1. 18.Further, PW5, HC Nihal in his testimony has deposed that
 after obtaining the CDR of the mobile phone, notice was FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 13 of 17 served upon Saddam Ansari who was using the mobile
 phone who had disclosed that he had purchased the mobile
 phone from the accused Deepak Arora and his son Arav
 Arora for an amount of Rs. 6000/- and that the accused
 Deepak Arora had also given his aadhar card to the
 accused Saddam Ansari. He further deposed that he got the
 information of the accused Deepak vide DD No. 2A and
 arrested the accused in the court after issuance of
 production warrant. His testimony with respect to his arrest
 at PS South Campus is corroborated by the testimony of
 PW-2, SI Sunil Gahlot and PW-6, Santosh Kumar, who
 was the manager of PNB, Nanakpura branch. 19.The contention of the Ld. LAC for the accused that no
 other independent witness has joined the investigation and
 thus the testimony of the prosecution witnesses cannot be
 relied upon is not acceptable as it is a well settled law
 which has again been reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Guru Dutt Pathak vs. State of Uttar
 Pradesh Criminal Appeal No. 502 of 2015 that non-
 examination of independent witnesses is not fatal to the
 case of the prosecution when other prosecution witnesses
 are found to be trustworthy and reliable. Further, the
 testimonies of the witnesses are indeed impeccable and
 corroborative of each other. The complainant (PW-1) had
 no motive to falsely implicate the accused and/or to allow
 the real culprit to go scot-free. Therefore, in view of
 aforesaid appreciation of evidence and factual position of
 the case, PW-1 had stood the acid test of cross
 examination, was believable just like that of a trustworthy FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 14 of 17 and creditworthy witness. Also, in Namdeo vs State of
 Maharashtra Crl. Appeal No.914/2006 decided on
 13.03.2007, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India observed
 that even the testimony of a solitary witness can be made
 the basis of conviction. The credibility of the witness is
 required to be decided with reference to the quality of his
 evidence which must be free from blemish or suspicion
 and must impress the court as fact wholly truthful and so
 convincing that the court has no hesitation in recording a
 conviction solely on his uncorroborated testimony. The
 court does not see any reason for the complainant and to
 falsely implicate the accused. 20.The Ld. LAC for the accused has also contended that the
 IO had not conducted the investigation in a fair and proper
 manner and there are various lacunas in the investigation.
 However, it cannot be a ground to give the benefit of doubt
 to the accused when the other evidences on record clearly
 points out towards the guilt of the accused. The Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of C. Muniappan and Others vs
 State of Tamil Nadu (2010) 9 SCC 567 with regard to the
 defective investigation has observed as under,

 "Defect in the investigation by itself cannot be a ground for
 acquittal. Investigation is not the solitary area for judicial
 scrutiny in a criminal trial. Where there has been negligence
 on the part of the investigating agency or omissions, etc,
 which resulted in defective investigation, there is a legal
 obligation on the part of the court to examine the prosecution
 evidence dehors such lapses carefully to find out whether the
 said evidence is reliable or not and to what extent it is
 reliable and as to whether such lapses affected the objects of
 finding out the truth. The conclusion of the trial in the case
 cannot be allowed to depend solely on the probity of
 investigation. There may be highly defective investigation in FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 15 of 17 a case. However, it is to be examined as to whether there is
 any lapse by the Investigating Officer and whether due to
 such lapse any benefit should be given to the accused. If
 primacy is given to such designed or negligent investigations
 or to the omissions or lapses by perfunctory investigation, the
 fake and confidence of the people in the criminal justice
 administration would be eroded." 21.It has further been argued that there are material
 contradictions in the testimonies of the prosecution
 witnesses and that the benefit of doubt be given to the
 accused person. However, the same in the opinion of this
 court is barely material if viewed in the backdrop of the
 otherwise strong and coherent case of the prosecution. It
 has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Syed
 Ibrahim v. State of A.P. [(2006) 10 SCC 601] that,
 "normal discrepancies in evidence are those which are due to
 normal errors of observation, normal errors of memory due
 to lapse of time, due to mental disposition such as shock and
 horror at the time of occurrence and those are always there
 however honest and truthful a witness may be. Material
 discrepancies are those which are not normal, and not
 expected of a normal person. Courts have to label the
 category to which a discrepancy may be categorized. While
 normal discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a
 party's case, material discrepancies do so." 22.Therefore, the lapses which have been pointed out by the
 Ld. LAC for the accused does not materially affect the
 testimony of the prosecution witnesses and the same leads
 to the conclusion that the accused was the one who had
 committed the offence. CONCLUSION 23.To recapitulate the above discussion, to bring home the
 guilt of the accused, the prosecution was required to prove
 the offence charged against the accused persons beyond FIR No. 572/2023, PS Dwarka South State v. Deepak Arora Page 16 of 17 reasonable doubt. In view of the above discussion, the
 court is of the considered opinion that the prosecution has
 successfully proved its case beyond all reasonable doubts
 against the accused Deepak Arora that he had committed
 the theft of mobile phone of the complainant from the SBI
 Bank. Hence, the accused, Deepak Arora is held guilty of
 the offence punishable under Section 380 IPC. Announced in open court on 09.10.2024 in the presence of the
accused. KRATIKA CHATURVEDI
 CHATURVEDI Date: 2024.10.09
 17:26:11 +0530

 (Kratika Chaturvedi)

 Metropolitan Magistrate-04,

 Dwarka, Delhi/09.10.2024

Note: The judgment contains 17 pages and each page is signed
by the undersigned.