1. This Court had, on 30th June, 2025, passed an ex parte ad interim Order

 inter alia restraining the Defendants from using the trade mark "DOCTOR

 HEALTH SUPER SOFT/ DOCTOR SUPER SOFT/ DOCTOR EXTRA SOFT" in

 relation to the sale of footwear. 2. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2, on being served with the ex parte order have filed

 an Affidavit seeking to have the ex parte ad interim Order vacated under the

 provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 3/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 ( CPC ), on the ground that the Plaintiff has approached this Court

 with unclean hands since the Plaintiff had obtained the ex parte order by

 deliberately suppressing material facts and documents from this Court.

 Submissions of Mr. Kamod on behalf of the Defendants 3. Mr. Kamod, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Defendants

 submitted that the Plaintiff had suppressed the three most material facts

 from this Court and had on that basis not only created a false sense of

 urgency but also obtained relief to which the Plaintiff was not entitled. He

 then pointed out that the Plaintiff had suppressed the fact that (I) the

 Plaintiff's trade mark registration in Class 25 contained a specific

 limitation/disclaimer that the said registration was exclusive only to the

 State of Maharashtra, (II) Back in December 2024, the Defendant No. 1 had

 produced evidence of user of the impugned trade mark since April 2022,

 and (III) the Plaintiff had, in the course of its registration in Class 25, taken a

 diametrically opposite stand from the stand taken in the present Suit. He

 submitted that while any one of these grounds would be sufficient to vacate

 the ex parte order, the fact that the Plaintiff had suppressed all three of these

 material facts from this Court made evident that the Plaintiff had

 consciously and systematically played a fraud on this Court and on that

 basis obtained the ex parte ad interim Order. Mr. Kamod then made the

 following submissions in support of each of the three material facts which

 were suppressed, i.e., (I) to (III), in order to obtain ex parte ad interim relief. MARKS REGISTRY ON THE PLAINTIFF'S TRADE MARK REGISTRATION IN

 CLASS 25 4. Mr. Kamod at the outset pointed out that the Plaintiff had obtained 3 trade

 mark registrations, i.e., one each in Class 20, 25, and 35, which the Plaintiff

 was enforcing in the present Suit. He submitted that in the context of

 applying for ex parte ad interim relief, it was only the Plaintiff's registration

 No. 3753207 in Class 25 ("the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25") which

 was material since the primary grievance of the Plaintiff was that the

 Defendants were using the impugned mark to sell footwear and that Class

 25, inter alia, covered "slippers, pedicure slippers, leather slippers, foam

 pedicure slippers, women's foldable slippers, cushion slippers, orthopedic

 slippers". He thus submitted that the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 was

 therefore the most relevant registration, especially in the context of the

 Plaintiff's application for ex parte ad interim relief. 5. Mr. Kamod then pointed out that the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 had a

 specific limitation/disclaimer that the registration was exclusive only to the

 State of Maharashtra. He submitted that the Plaintiff's registration in Class

 25 would therefore not apply outside the State of Maharashtra and that the

 Plaintiff did not have any registration in Class 25 beyond the territory of the

 State of Maharashtra. He pointed out that the said condition was clearly

 reflected on the online status page as well as on the advertisement of the

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 5/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 in the Trade Marks Journal but was

 neither annexed to nor mentioned in the Plaint. 6. Mr. Kamod pointed out that the Plaintiff had in fact annexed a registration

 certificate, which contained a specific disclaimer which clearly provided

 that the said registration certificate was not meant for use in legal

 proceedings. He submitted that it was therefore incumbent upon the Plaintiff

 to have annexed all the relevant material in respect of the Plaintiff's

 registration in Class 25, the most crucial being the status page in respect of

 the same, since that would contain all the relevant details in respect of the

 said registration, including the limitation/disclaimer. He submitted that

 despite this, the Plaintiff had deliberately not done so. Mr. Kamod submitted

 that the fact that the suppression was deliberate was evident since the

 Plaintiff had craved leave to rely upon the legal proceedings certificate in

 respect of its registration in Class 25, which showed that the Plaintiff was

 aware of its duty to produce the legal proceedings certificate. 7. Mr. Kamod then submitted that the statutory limitation/disclaimer forming

 part of the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 was a material and relevant

 factor, which ought to have been disclosed not only in the Plaint but also

 specifically brought to the attention of this Court at the time of applying for

 ex parte ad interim reliefs. He reiterated that the Plaintiff's failure to disclose

 the same was not inadvertent but was calculated and deliberate, which he

 submitted was evident from the fact that the Plaintiff had made detailed

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 6/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 averments in respect of its registration in Class 25 in the Plaint including

 having furnished absolutely irrelevant details about proceedings with third

 parties, but having omitted to mention the most crucial fact that the

 Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 was restricted only to the State of

 Maharashtra. 8. Mr. Kamod then submitted that the dishonesty of the Plaintiff was also

 evident from the fact that after the suppression of the disclaimer/limitation

 was brought to light by Defendant No. 1, the Plaintiff, instead of coming

 clean before this Court, had in the Affidavit in Rejoinder dishonestly

 contended that the suppression of the said limitation/disclaimer was an

 inadvertent oversight but also that such oversight did not affect the

 entitlement of the Plaintiff in the present proceedings. Mr. Kamod submitted

 that such contention was a patently false and dishonest since the Plaintiff

 had in the plaint (i) made extensive averments in respect of Plaintiff's

 registration in Class 25 (ii) produced and relied upon its registration

 certificate in respect of its registration in Class 25 (iii) sought and obtained

 an Order of injunction against the Defendants from manufacturing and

 selling footwear, which goods admittedly fell only under Class 25 (iv)

 specifically pleaded trade mark infringement by relying upon Plaintiff's

 registration in Class 25 (v) cited all of the Plaintiff's pending trade mark

 applications which were in Class 25 (vi) cited all of the oppositions (16 in

 total) filed by the Plaintiff against third parties, all of which were in respect

 of marks in Class 25 (vii) cited foreign trade mark registrations of the

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 7/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Plaintiff which were also in Class 25, and finally (viii) averred that the

 infringement was of the Plaintiff's goods and not services and that goods

 were covered in Class 25 whereas services were covered in Class 35. Mr.

 Kamod submitted that far from being irrelevant, the Plaintiff's registration in

 Class 25 was infact the most crucial and relevant registration in the context

 of the application filed by the Plaintiff for ex parte ad interim reliefs. He also

 took pains to point out it was not as though the Plaintiff had multiple

 registrations in Class 25, and therefore details of one registration were

 inadvertently left out. He submitted that the Plaintiff only had the one

 registration in Class 25, and thus the stand taken by the Plaintiff in the

 Rejoinder only compounded the Plaintiff's dishonesty. 9. Mr. Kamod then placed reliance upon the decision of the Delhi High Court

 in the case of Om Prakash Gupta v. Praveen Kumar1 and pointed out that the

 Delhi High Court had, in the said case, held that the limitation/disclaimer

 imposed on the trade mark registration being enforced by a Plaintiff in a suit

 for infringement of trade mark was a material and relevant factor which

 ought to have been disclosed to the Court, especially at the time of making

 an application for ex parte ad interim reliefs. He also pointed out from the

 said judgement that the Delhi High Court had also held that suppression of a

 material fact would warrant dismissal of the Suit itself. 10. Mr. Kamod submitted that the Plaintiff's reliance upon trade mark

 registration bearing No. 4877429 in Class 20 and registration No. 5273690

 in Class 35 was really of no relevance since these registrations were in

 respect of different goods and services which were not the subject matter of

 the present proceedings. He thus submitted that the Class 35 and Class 20

 trade mark registrations were inconsequential in the context of the present

 proceedings. II. SUPPRESSION OF COUNTERSTATEMENT AND EVIDENCE FILED BY THE

 DEFENDANT NO. 1 IN OPPOSITION PROCEEDINGS PENDING BETWEEN PLAINTIFF AND DEFENDANT NO. 1 11. Mr. Kamod then pointed out that the Plaintiff in paragraph 30 of the Plaint,

 had made a false statement by stating that the Plaintiff had become aware of

 the Defendants' use of the impugned mark only on 6th March 2025. He

 submitted that the Plaintiff was well aware that the Defendants had asserted

 prior user of the impugned trade mark since Defendant No. 1 had filed a

 Counter Statement and Evidence Affidavit in the opposition proceedings

 which were pending between the Plaintiff and Defendant No. 1 before the

 Trade Mark Registry in respect of the impugned trade mark wherein

 Defendant No. 1 had produced evidence of user of the impugned trade mark

 since April 2022. Mr. Kamod submitted that it was only to create a false

 sense of urgency, that the Plaintiff had annexed neither the Counter

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 9/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Statement dated 19th July 2024 nor the Evidence Affidavit dated 24th

 December 2024, filed by Defendant No. 1. 12. Additionally, Mr. Kamod pointed out that the Plaintiff had, before the Trade

 Marks Registry responded to the Counter Statement and Affidavit of

 Evidence filed by Defendant No. 1, and was thus undoubtedly aware that the

 Defendants were asserting user of the impugned trade mark since the year

 2022. He submitted that the Plaintiff was also cognisant of the fact that the

 opposition proceedings and the evidence filed by the Defendant No. 1

 therein were relevant for the consideration of this Court and therefore had

 referred to the same in the plaint without, however, producing the same.

 Mr. Kamod submitted that despite the substantial documentary evidence

 produced by Defendant No. 1 to show its use of the impugned trade mark

 since April 2022, the Plaintiff had in paragraph 30 of the Plaint knowingly

 falsely asserted that Defendant No. 1 had failed to establish any credible

 evidence or bona fide use of the impugned trade mark. 13. Mr. Kamod then pointed out that the Plaintiff had, in paragraph 4(m) of the

 Affidavit in Rejoinder, in fact admitted that the documentary evidence

 produced by Defendant No. 1 established the Defendants' use of the

 impugned trade mark. He submitted that in view thereof, the averments

 made in the Plaint in paragraph 30 were ex facie false to the knowledge of

 the Plaintiff and had been made solely to mislead this Court. Mr. Kamod took

 pains to point out that the Plaintiff had offered no explanation/justification

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 10/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 for not producing the evidence of Defendant No. 1, which was filed before

 the Trade Marks Registry. III. SUPPRESSION OF THE CONTRARY STAND TAKEN BY THE Plaintiff IN THE

 COURSE OF THE REGISTRATION IN CLASS 25. 14. Mr. Kamod then, in addition to the suppression as detailed in (I) and (II)

 above submitted that the Plaintiff was also guilty of suppressing the fact that

 at the stage of examination of the Plaintiff's trade mark Application in Class

 25, the Registrar of Trade Marks had issued a Preliminary Examination

 Report dated 27th April 2016, wherein the Registrar had cited earlier third-

 party conflicting marks, namely, "DOCTOR PLUS" and "DOCTOR SOFT" 15. Mr. Kamod further pointed out that, given the above stand taken by the

 Plaintiff before the Trade Mark Registry the Plaintiff had admitted to the fact

 that the presence of the words "DOCTOR" and "SOFT" was not at all

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 11/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 determinative of the similarity between the Plaintiff's trade mark and the

 earlier cited marks. He submitted that the Plaintiff in the stand taken before

 Trade Marks Registry, had made it clear that the Plaintiff was not claiming

 any exclusive right in the words "DOCTOR" or "SOFT" but only in the

 specific composite label "DOCTOR EXTRA SOFT". Mr. Kamod then pointed

 out that the Plaintiff had, in the present Suit, taken the diametrically

 opposite stand to the one taken before the Trade Mark Registry in the year

 2018 without disclosing the previous stand in the present Suit. 16. Mr. Kamod submitted that the Plaintiff, having received registration in Class

 25 on the basis of the stand taken before the Registrar of Trade Marks, could

 not now contend that the Plaintiff's mark and the Defendants' mark were

 similar because of the presence of the common words "DOCTOR" and

 "SOFT" in respect of which the Plaintiff had not claimed exclusivity. He

 submitted that the Plaintiff could not approbate and reprobate by now

 seeking to enforce exclusivity over the very same elements the Plaintiff had

 disclaimed before the Trade Marks Registry as being non-confusing and

 non-exclusive. He submitted that the Plaintiff was therefore estopped from

 asserting any monopolistic or exclusive rights over the generic and

 commonly used terms "DOCTOR" or "SOFT". He submitted that it was in this

 context that the stand taken by the Plaintiff before the Registrar of Trade

 Marks was absolutely relevant for the purpose of the grant of any interim

 injunction, particularly the grant of an ex parte ad interim injunction. 17. Mr. Kamod pointed out that the most important factor which had in fact

 weighed with the Learned Judge while passing the ex parte ad interim Order

 was that the Learned Judge had prima facie found that the words "DOCTOR"

 and "SOFT" were the essential features of the Plaintiff's mark which was

 diametrically opposite to the stand taken by the Plaintiff before the Trade

 Mark Registry. He submitted that had notice been given to the Defendants,

 the Defendants would have pointed out this contrary and inconsistent stand

 of the Plaintiff. In support of his contention that the stand taken by the

 Plaintiff before the Trade Mark Registry during the course of the Plaintiff's

 Class 25 registration proceedings was a relevant factor he placed reliance

 upon the decision of this Court in the case of PhonePe Private Limited v.

 Resilient Innovations Private Limited2 He submitted that whether or not the

 representation made by the Plaintiff to the Trade Marks Registry would

 amount to an estoppel or not was a secondary factor; however, it was the

 duty of the Plaintiff to have placed the same before the Court and more so

 when the Plaintiff was moving for ex parte ad interim relief. 18. Mr. Kamod additionally submitted that it was well settled that it was not

 for a litigant to decide what was to be disclosed and what not. He

 submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court had time and again held that a

 litigant is not entitled to pick and choose what facts are to be placed before

 the Court but is required to place all the material facts before the Court

 and then leave it for the Court to decide. In support of his contention, he

2 2023 SCC Online Bom 764

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 13/53 iaL-18278-25.doc placed reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 case of Bhaskar Laxman Jadhav v. Karamweer Kakasaheb Wagh Education

 Society 3 .He also placed reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in the case of Prestige Lights Ltd. v. State Bank of India 4 which inter

 alia held that where there is suppression of material facts, the Court may

 refuse to entertain such a case without entering into the merits. 19. Mr. Kamod then placed reliance upon the decision of the Division Bench of

 this Court in the Case of Kewal Ashokbhai Vasoya v. Surabhakti Goods Pvt

 Ltd.5 to point out that since the Plaintiff had moved for ex parte ad interim

 relief, it was incumbent upon the Plaintiff to have, inter alia (i) fairly and

 evenly made all the necessary disclosures and statements on the basis of any

 anticipatory defences or arguments likely to be made by the opposite party, (ii) placed all the material within the knowledge of the Plaintiff before the

 Court (iii) presented the case neutrally and objectively and (iv) crucially,

 since the present Suit was a trade mark Suit, to have disclosed whether the

 Plaintiff's registration was with or without any disclaimer. 20. Basis the above, Mr. Kamod submitted that the conduct of the Plaintiff in

 deliberately suppressing material facts and then moving for ex parte ad

 interim reliefs plainly amounted to playing a fraud upon this Court. He

 submitted that the Plaintiff had thus clearly polluted the pure stream of

3 (2013) 11 SCC 531
4 (2007) 8 Supreme Court Cases 449
5 2022 SCC Online Bom 3335

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 14/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 justice and was an unscrupulous litigant. He then placed reliance upon the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ramjas Foundation and

 Another v. Union of India and Others 6, from which he pointed out that the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court had, in the context of unscrupulous litigants, inter

 alia, held as follows: 21. Mr. Kamod then submitted that, given the facts of the present case, there

 could be no doubt that the Plaintiff had suppressed material facts from this

 Court, the Suit itself was required to be dismissed. He pointed out that both,

 this Court in the case of Nagina Ramsagar Choube & Ors. v. Ajay Mohan &

 Ors.7 and the Delhi High Court in the case of Om Prakash Gupta had

 dismissed Suits at the interlocutory stage on finding that the Plaintiff in both

 cases had suppressed material facts from the Court. Alternatively, Mr.

 Kamod submitted that in the event the Court was not inclined to dismiss the

 Suit itself, then the Interim Application ought to be dismissed on the ground

6 2010 SCC Online SC 1254
7 Order dated 24th June 2025 in Interim Application No.2143 of 2025 in Suit No.130 of 2025

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 15/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 of suppression of material facts. In support of his contention, he placed

 reliance upon the decision of this Court in the case of Rochem Separation

 Systems (India) Ltd. v. Nirtech Private Limited & Ors. 8 from which he pointed

 out that this Court had dismissed the Interim Application on the ground that

 the Plaintiff had obtained an ex parte ad interim by withholding material

 information from the Court. He also placed reliance upon the decisions of

 this Court in the case of Laser Shaving (India) Private Ltd. v. RKRM

 International Products Pvt Ltd.9 and Atyati Technologies Private Limited v.

 Cognizant Technologies Solutions US Corporation & Anr. 10 to point out that

 when there has been material suppression of facts, the Court, on that ground

 alone, vacated the ex parte ad interim Order without going into the merits

 of the matter. 22. Mr. Kamod then submitted that the present Suit, being a Commercial Suit,

 was governed by the provisions of the Commercial Courts, Commercial

 Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015 (" Commercial Courts Act ") Section 35 of the CPC, as amended by Section 16 of the Commercial Courts Act, would apply, entitling the Defendants to an

 order of costs. He pointed out that under the scheme of the Commercial

 Courts Act , this Court had the power to award costs at any stage of the

 proceedings. He pointed out from Section 35 of the amended CPC that the

 costs contemplated thereunder would include legal fees and all other

8 Order dated 30th March 2023 in Interim Application (l) No.29924 of 2022 in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.29923 of 2022. expenses incurred in connection with the proceedings. He pointed out that Section 35(3) of the amended CPC provides that while awarding costs, due

 regard was also required to be had to the conduct of the parties. Mr. Kamod

 then placed reliance upon the decisions of the Delhi High Court in Sai

 Trading Co. v. KRBL Limited 11and of this Court in Dashrath B. Rathod v. Fox

 Star Studios India Pvt. Ltd.12 and pointed out that both these decisions

 reiterated the principle that litigants who approach the Court by

 suppressing material facts not only abuse the process of law but also waste

 the valuable time of the Court. He thus submitted that, given the conduct of

 the Plaintiff, not only were the Defendants entitled to an order of costs, but

 they were also entitled to an order of exemplary costs. He submitted that

 such an order was required to be passed to curb the menace of

 unscrupulous litigants abusing the process of this Court and of law. 23. Mr. Kamod in support of his contention that exemplary costs in this case

 must be awarded, highlighted that (i) the Plaintiff had made a calculated

 attempt to deceive and defraud this Court in passing the ex parte ad interim

 order dated 30th June 2025 (ii) the Defendants' business had been crippled

 after the ex parte Order had been passed (iii) the Defendant Nos. 1 and 3

 had placed on Affidavit along with a Chartered Accountant's Certificate

 certifying the sales figures of the Defendant Nos.1 and 3 were

 ₹3,65,16,676/- and ₹2,46,65,198/-, respectively, totalling up to

 ₹6,11,81,874/- (Rupees Six Crores Eleven Lakhs Eighty-One Thousand

11 2024 SCC Online Del 5222
12 2017 SCC Online Bom 345

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 17/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Eight Hundred and Seventy-Four only), (iv) in addition to monetary loss, the

 Defendants had also suffered embarrassment/irreparable injury to their

 goodwill and reputation in the market due to the abrupt halt in the

 Defendants' business and the Impugned ex parte Order being brought to the

 knowledge of their distributors, dealers, partners and other persons

 connected with them in course of trade (v) the Plaintiff had deliberately

 derailed the hearing of the Defendants' Order XXXIX Rule 4 Application by

 vexatiously agitating its Order XXXIX Rule 2A Application on frivolous

 grounds to be heard on first priority (vi) the Plaintiff had during oral

 submissions, admitted that the order of infringement could not have been

 passed against the Defendants for the entire country in view of the

 disclaimer on its registration (vii) that the Plaintiff had not, despite accepting

 that the Plaintiff was not entitled to an injunction for infringement beyond

 the State of Maharashtra never pointed this out to the Court and had the

 Order varied. 24. Mr. Kamod then pointed out that the Plaintiff had, in paragraph 61 of the

 Interim Application given an undertaking in terms of Rule 126(IX)A 13 of the

 Bombay High Court Rules by which the Plaintiff had thus specifically

 undertaken to pay, by way of damages or costs, as the Court may award on

 account of the prejudice caused by the ex parte ad interim Order.

13 126 IX-A. Signed undertaking required - Every Interim Application shall, in addition to the above, contain, in the body of the
Interim Application, a signed statement of the party making such Application undertaking to pay such sum by way of damages or
costs as the Court may award as compensation in the event of a party affected sustaining prejudice by any order that might be made
on such Interim Application. The Court may, in its discretion, while making the order on the Interim Application dispense with
undertaking. 25. Mr. Kamod pointed out that in addition to the costs as contemplated under

 the Commercial Courts Act , this Court also had the inherent power under Section 151 of CPC to grant exemplary costs against the Plaintiff in order to

 curb the menace of parties attempting to play a fraud upon the Court and

 filing false affidavits/pleadings. He then placed reliance upon the decision of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dnyandeo Sabaji Naik v. Mrs. Pradnya

 Prakash Khadekar and Ors.14 which had been followed by this Court in

 Dashrath B. Rathod , from which he pointed out that in matters of fraud and

 gross suppression such as the present case, this Court ought to exercise its

 power under Section 151 to impose exemplary costs against the erring

 party. 26. Basis above, Mr. Kamod submitted that given that the Plaintiff had wilfully

 suppressed material facts from this Court as detailed in (I), (II) and (III)

 above and had on that basis obtained an ex parte ad interim order by

 playing a fraud on this Court, the Suit was required to be dismissed with

 exemplary costs. Submissions of Mr. Dwarkadas on behalf of the Plaintiff 27. Per contra, Mr. Dwarkadas, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of

 the Plaintiff, at the outset, submitted that the Plaintiff had at all times acted

 with full transparency and had neither wilfully nor deliberately concealed

14 2017 MhLJ OnLine (S.C.) 4

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 19/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 any material fact from this Court. 28. Conversely, Mr. Dwarkadas submitted that it was, in fact, the Defendants

 who were in clear violation of Sections 28 and 29 of the Trade Marks Act,

 1999 ("TMA"), since the Defendants had infringed the Plaintiff's statutory

 rights. He pointed out that Section 28 of the TMA conferred upon the

 registered proprietor of a trade mark the exclusive right to use the mark in

 relation to the goods or services for which it is registered and

 correspondingly entitled such registered proprietor to seek relief in the

 event such right was infringed. He submitted that the Plaintiff, having been

 granted registration in Class 25, was therefore exclusively entitled to use the

 said trade mark. He submitted that despite this statutory protection, the

 Defendants had sold products bearing the impugned trade mark within

 Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra and were therefore guilty of

 infringement of the Plaintiff's registered trade mark under Section 29 of the

 TMA. He submitted that it was well settled that a party who was guilty of a

 breach of statute could not seek any equitable relief from this Court. 29. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that the disclaimer/limitation was wholly

 irrelevant since the Plaintiff had filed the present Suit within the territorial

 jurisdiction of this Court within which the infringement had admittedly

 taken place. At this stage, I enquired of Mr. Dwarkadas as to where this

 admission of infringement by the Defendants was to be found. Mr.

 Dwarkadas clarified that there was no such admission in the pleadings. 30. Mr. Dwarkadas then pointed out that the Defendants had not denied

 knowledge of the Plaintiff's registered trade mark and had, in the present

 Interim Application, proceeded entirely on the basis of a demurrer. Mr.

 Dwarkadas then drew my attention to the ex parte order and pointed out

 that the same had conclusively found the Defendants guilty of infringement

 and that the Defendants had not preferred any appeal against the ex parte

 order. He submitted that this clearly demonstrated acquiescence on the part

 of the Defendants and reinforced the validity of the Plaintiff's claim. 31. Mr. Dwarkadas then, without prejudice to the aforesaid, submitted that the

 suppression alleged was neither wilful nor deliberate. He pointed out that

 Plaintiff had in the Affidavit in Rejoinder specifically stated that the Plaintiff

 had inadvertently missed specifically mentioning the disclaimer in the

 Plaint. He submitted that it was well settled that inadvertent errors do not

 amount to suppression of material facts sufficient to warrant vacation of an

 ex parte order. In support of his contention, he placed reliance upon the

 decision of this Court in the case of K.L.F. Nirmal Industries Pvt. Ltd. v.

 Marico Limited 15 and pointed out that this Court had in the said case

 categorically held that an incorrect or inadvertent statement, which was not

 knowingly or wilfully made, cannot constitute a ground for vacating an

 injunction under Order XXXIX Rule 4. He submitted that the said ratio

 would squarely apply to the facts of the present case, as the suppression

15 2023 SCC OnLine Bom 2734
Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 21/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 alleged on the part of the Plaintiff was neither wilful nor deliberate. 32. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that the Plaintiff had in the Plaint fully

 disclosed all relevant facts, registrations, oppositions, rectifications, and

 ancillary proceedings relating to its registration in Class 25, including (i)

 details in respect of all registered marks in Class 25 that could be relevant to

 the present proceedings, (ii) all the oppositions filed by or against the

 Plaintiff in respect of Class 25 trade marks applications along with

 annexures, and (iii) rectifications, corrections, or disclaimers in respect of

 Class 25 marks were accurately described. He thus submitted that the

 omission to mention the said disclaimer/limitation in the Plaint was purely

 inadvertent, and thus the judgements in the case of Ramjas Foundation,

 Bhaskar Laxman Jadhav, Kewal Ashokbhai Vasoya, Laser Shaving (India)

 Private Ltd., Om Prakash Gupta, Atyati Technologies Private Limited, Rochem

 Separation Systems (India) Ltd. and Nagina Ramsagar Choube & Ors. upon

 which reliance was placed by the Defendants would not apply. Mr.

 Dwarkadas submitted that, in any event, the said omission had been

 immediately clarified by the Plaintiff and hence the same could not be said

 to have been wilful or deliberate. I asked Mr. Dwarkadas when this

 immediate clarification was issued and where it was to be found. Mr.

 Dwarkadas pointed out that the same was to be found in the Affidavit in

 Rejoinder dated 13th August 2025. 33. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that even if this Court found that there was

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 22/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 suppression on the part of the Plaintiff, the Court had the discretion to

 continue the ex parte order if the interest of justice so demanded, as

 specifically held in the case of Kewal Ashokbhai Vasoya . He pointed out that

 in the present case the interest of justice would require the injunction to

 continue since (i) the Plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the mark

 "DOCTOR EXTRA SOFT" in Class 25, albeit with exclusive rights in the State

 of Maharashtra (ii) by virtue of Section 28 of the Trade Marks 1999, the

 Plaintiff has the exclusive right to use the registered mark and to seek relief

 against infringement (iii) the registration operates not only in favour of the

 proprietor but also in the public interest; (iv) vacating the ad interim order

 would cause grave prejudice to the Plaintiff and would also result in

 deception and confusion amongst unsuspecting consumers, and (v) setting

 aside the injunction would, in effect, nullify the statutory exclusivity

 conferred upon the Plaintiff as registered proprietor and would give a

 licence to the Defendants to continue infringement even within

 Maharashtra. 34. Mr. Dwarkadas then also placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in

 the case of Asma Farid Noorani v. Haji Ali Fresh Fruit Juices 16 and pointed

 out that this Court had in the said case not vacated the ex parte ad interim

 order in the interest of justice even though there had been some suppression

 on the part of the Plaintiff. He then, without prejudice to his submission that

 the ex parte ad interim order ought not to be set aside, submitted that this

16 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 4995

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 23/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Court always had the power to mould the reliefs and thus could vary the ex

 parte ad interim order so as to make it applicable to the State of

 Maharashtra if the Court felt that the suppression of the

 limitation/disclaimer was a material factor. He submitted that this would

 safeguard the Plaintiff's statutory rights and also be equitable. 35. Mr. Dwarkadas then placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in the

 case of K.L.F. Nirmal Industries Pvt. Ltd. and pointed out that this Court had

 emphasised that the purpose of granting a temporary injunction in a suit for

 infringement of trade mark was not confined to safeguarding the rights of a

 Plaintiff alone but extended equally to protecting the interest of the general

 public. He pointed out from the said judgement that the Court held that

 denial of a temporary injunction merely because the Plaintiff had made an

 incorrect statement in the plaint would not be in the interest of justice. Mr.

 Dwarkadas then also pointed out that the Plaintiff was also the registered

 proprietor in Class 35, which registration did not have any territorial

 disclaimer. He thus submitted that the injunction cannot and ought not to be

 vacated since the Plaintiff would also be entitled to assert its right under

 Class 35. 36. Mr Dwarkadas, then, in dealing with the contention that the Plaintiff was

 aware that the Defendants were using the impugned mark since 2022 and

 had suppressed this fact from the Plaint, submitted that such contention was

 plainly false. In support of his contention, he invited my attention to

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 24/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 paragraph 28 of the Interim Application and paragraph 30 of the Plaint to

 point out that the Plaintiff had specifically adverted to the Defendants'

 filings before the Trade Mark Registry. He thus submitted that there was no

 suppression of these facts. 37. Mr. Dwarkadas, then, pointed out that the Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 had filed

 the following three trade mark applications: From the above, Mr. Dwarkadas pointed out that though the Defendant No.1

 had filed the application for registration of in Class 25 on a

 proposed to be used basis on 17th January 2022, it was only on 24th

 December 2024 that Defendant No. 1 filed the Affidavit of Evidence

 claiming alleged user of the trade mark since April 2022. He

 then submitted that the evidence produced by the Defendants to support

 user of the trade mark was entirely lacking in credibility since (i) the GST certificates produced by the Defendants had an address different

 from the address mentioned in the original Trade Mark Application No.

 5288145, as also in the invoices produced to prove user (ii) the journal copy

 cited by the Defendants did not show the actual sale, distribution or

 branding of goods under the trade mark "Doctor Health Super Soft" since

 2022 (iii) only 17 purchase orders bore the trade mark "Doctor Health

 Super Soft"; (iv) the balance purchase orders related to other marks and

 were thus wholly irrelevant; (v) the entries were non-certified, computer-

 generated Excel sheets that could be easily manipulated; (v) no complete

 information about CGST/SGST for Delhi and IGST for interstate sales was

 furnished; (vi) no evidence of actual transactions of use was

 furnished; and (vii) that only Flipkart portal listings do not constitute user. 38. He then pointed out that in the Affidavit in Reply Defendant Nos. 1 and 2

 had falsely asserted that the trade mark was in use since April

 2022, even when the documents appended to the Affidavit of Evidence and

 the Counter Statement filed by the Defendants in the opposition proceedings

 before the Registry pertained only to the trade mark. Mr.

 Dwarkadas then pointed out that it was the label, which was

 actually affixed and used on the Defendant's goods, giving rise to the filing

 of the present Suit and not the mark. He submitted that by

 claiming that evidence pertaining to substantiated use of

 since 2022, the Defendants have deliberately misrepresented

 material facts and suppressed the true chronology and nature of commercial

 use. 39. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that although both marks contained the

 words "Doctor Health Super Soft", they differed in creative expression, visual

 presentation, and overall commercial impression. He submitted that the

 mark cannot legally or factually be treated as proof of prior use

 of , which is the mark actually affixed to and used on goods in

 the market. He submitted that attempting to equate the two marks distorted

 the record, undermined the opposition proceedings, and amounted to

 misleading the Court. 40. He submitted that it was because the evidence produced by Defendant No. 1

 was lacking in credibility that the Plaintiff had, both in the Interim

 Application (paragraph 28) and in the Plaint (paragraph 30), highlighted

 the Defendants failure to establish credible use since 2022. He thus

 submitted that there had been no suppression or concealment in this regard

 and that the Plaintiff had acted with full transparency before this Court. He

 reiterated that by equating evidence with use, it

 was the Defendants who had misled this Court and attempted to distort the

 factual record. 41. He then also pointed out that the application filed by the Defendants was on

 a "proposed to be used" basis, which itself made evident that there was no

 prior commercial adoption. It was for this reason that he submitted that the

 evidence produced by the Defendants would never have met the standard

 for bona fide use. Mr. Dwarkadas pointed out that the Plaintiff had made a

 full and transparent disclosure of these facts and that there had been no

 suppression, concealment, or misrepresentation of material facts before this

 Court. 42. He then submitted that the Plaintiff had discovered the infringing goods in

 the market only in March 2025, and thus the cause of action to file the

 present suit arose only then and was distinct from any prior registration

 proceedings. He submitted that it was well settled that trade mark

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 28/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 infringement and passing off were recurring violations, and each sale of the

 infringing goods constituted a separate wrongful act. He submitted that

 therefore, far from acquiescing, the Plaintiff had actively protected its rights

 by filing oppositions against conflicting applications and had in fact

 obtained an interim injunction in the year 2024. 43. Mr. Dwarkadas then dealing with the third contention, namely failure to

 disclose the prior stand taken by the Plaintiff during the course of the

 Plaintiff Class-25 registration, submitted that this stand was wholly

 unrelated to the present suit. He submitted that the question of the Plaintiff

 having to make reference to the said stand did not arise since that was in the

 context of proceedings to which the Defendants were admittedly not a party.

 He, therefore, submitted that the question of prosecution history estoppel

 applying therefore did not arise in the present case. He submitted that even

 in the judgement relied upon by the Defendants namely PhonePe Private

 Limited, the question of prosecution history estoppel arose since it was

 between the same parties. He submitted that this was not so in the present

 case, and hence, there was no question of the Plaintiff having to disclose the

 stand taken during its registration in Class 25 proceedings when the

 Plaintiff applied for ex parte ad interim relief. 44. He then reiterated that the Plaintiff was the registered proprietor of the

 device mark DOCTOR EXTRA SOFT, and, by virtue of Section 28 of the Trade

 Marks Act, 1999, the Plaintiff had a statutory right to the exclusive right to

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 29/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 use of the trade mark and to seek relief for its infringement. Mr. Dwarkadas

 submitted that it was well settled that there can be no estoppel against

 statute, and ultimately, the question of deceptive similarity lies within the

 exclusive domain of this Court. It was in this context that he submitted that

 isolated submissions made in unrelated proceedings cannot divest the

 Plaintiff of its rights granted under statute and that the invocation of the

 doctrine of estoppel in the present case was thus wholly misconceived. 45. He pointed out that for the doctrine of estoppel under Section 115 of the

 Evidence Act to apply, the Defendants must necessarily show (i) a

 representation by the Plaintiff, (ii) reliance by the Defendants upon the

 representation made, and (iii) that the Defendants had altered its position or

 had occasioned prejudice by such representation. Mr. Dwarkadas reiterated

 that the Defendants were not a party to the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25

 proceedings and additionally had not shown what reliance the Defendants

 had placed upon the representation made by the Plaintiff in those

 proceedings or what prejudice had been caused to the Defendants on

 account of such representation. He submitted that due to the absence of

 these three mandatory requirements, the question of there being any

 estoppel did not arise. 46. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that even the doctrine of approbation and

 reprobation, which was only a species of estoppel, was also similarly

 confined to the parties inter se who had acted and/or altered their position

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 30/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 to their detriment. He submitted that it was not open for a third party to

 allege approbation and/or reprobation on the part of the Plaintiff, let alone

 to whittle down statutory rights flowing from registration under the Trade

 Marks Act . 47. Mr. Dwarkadas then submitted that it was well settled that while a litigant

 may take different stands at different times, a party cannot take

 contradictory positions in the course of the same proceeding. He submitted

 that a party cannot therefore be permitted to approbate and reprobate and

 adopt inconsistent shifting stands in the course of the same proceeding. In

 support of his contention, he placed reliance upon the decision of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Suzuki Parasrampuria Suitings (P) Ltd.

 v. Official Liquidator17 , from which he pointed out that the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court had laid down that the doctrine of approbation and reprobation

 applied to contradictions made in the course of the same proceeding. 48. Mr. Dwarkadas reiterated that in the present case, the Plaintiff had not

 taken any inconsistent stand, and thus the Defendants' reliance on

 submissions made in unrelated proceedings could never constitute

 prosecution history and were thus misplaced and legally untenable. He also

 pointed out that the Plaintiff's prior submissions regarding unrelated third-

 party marks were context-specific and procedural and cannot legally or

 factually operate as estoppel against the Defendants in the present case. 49. Mr. Dwarkadas pointed out that Defendants' mark was distinct in visual,

 phonetic, and commercial impression from those conflicting third-party

 marks. He thus submitted that the Plaintiff had therefore not taken any

 contradictory stand in relation to the Defendants' Marks. He submitted that

 the Defendants' contention of approbation and reprobation was

 unsustainable, and the Plaintiff's action was bona fide and aimed solely at

 protecting the Plaintiff's trade mark and preventing consumer confusion. 50. Mr. Dwarkadas then finally submitted that this Court was also, when

 considering an application under the Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the CPC ,

 required to take into consideration the conduct of the Defendants. He then

 pointed out from the Court Receiver's Report that the Defendants had

 engaged in deliberate and wilful obstruction of the Court's process by

 obstructing the Court Receiver in the discharge of his duties in executing the

 ex parte ad interim order. He submitted that such conduct on the part of the

 Defendants clearly amounted to interference in the administration of justice

 and infact constituted criminal contempt. In support of his contention, he

 placed reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Kilachand

 Devchand & Co. Ltd. v. Ajudhia Prasad Sukhanand & Co. 18 Mr. Dwarkadas

 also placed reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 case of Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. , 19 from which he pointed

 out that the Hon'ble Supreme Court had held that a party invoking or

18 1934 SCC OnLine Bom 7
19 (1995) 5 Supreme Court Cases 545

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 32/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 resisting an injunction must show that its conduct is fair, honest and free

 from blame. He submitted that in the present case, given the conduct of the

 Defendants in obstructing the Court Receiver, the Defendants had neither

 acted in a manner that was fair, honest or free from blame. He thus

 submitted that the ex parte ad interim order ought not to be vacated.

 Submissions in Rejoinder 51. Mr. Kamod submitted that the Plaintiff's contention that the Defendants had

 infringed the Plaintiff's statutory rights under Sections 28 and 29 of the

 Trade Marks Act, 1999, and were therefore disentitled to relief under the

 provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the CPC , was entirely untenable and, in

 fact, absurd. He submitted that the question of whether any infringement

 had occurred was yet to be adjudicated upon, and though it was orally

 argued that the Defendants had admittedly infringed the Plaintiff's trade

 mark, there was, in fact, no such admission. He submitted that if the

 Plaintiff's interpretation of Sections 28 and 29 of the TMA was to be

 accepted, then in every suit for infringement, the Defendants would

 automatically be deemed guilty of infringement merely because a registered

 proprietor had filed a suit for infringement. He submitted that this would

 not only open a Pandora's box, allowing parties like the present Plaintiff to

 make knowingly false statements and on that basis obtain ex parte relief, but

 would also effectively render the provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 33/53 iaL-18278-25.doc CPC otiose. It was thus that he submitted that the Plaintiff's interpretation of Sections 28 and 29 of the TMA is entirely untenable. 52. Mr. Kamod then, in dealing with the submission that this Court, in the facts

 of the present case, ought to mould the ex parte ad interim order by

 restricting its operation to the State of Maharashtra, submitted that such a

 contention was also misconceived and untenable. He submitted that the

 Plaintiff had miserably failed to offer any credible or tenable explanation for

 its suppression of any of the suppressed facts as set out in (I) to (III) above.

 He submitted that the Defendants had adequately established that the

 suppression by the Plaintiff was not only wilful and deliberate but also

 calculated, and hence the Plaintiff was disentitled to any equitable relief

 from this Court. He then submitted that there was no question of moulding

 the reliefs in favour of a party who had played a fraud on this Court. He

 additionally submitted that the Plaintiff, in the Affidavit in Rejoinder, failed

 to furnish any particulars explaining how or why the alleged inadvertent

 error occurred. He submitted that had there been the slightest bona fides on

 the part of the Plaintiff, then the Plaintiff ought to have brought the

 disclaimer/limitation to the attention of the Court and moved to have the ex

 parte order modified if not set aside. He pointed out that the Plaintiff did

 neither and, when caught out, simply pleaded inadvertence without so

 much as even attempting an explanation, let alone giving a cogent

 explanation for the same. 53. He then, in dealing with the judgements in the case of K.L.F. Nirmal

 Industries Pvt. Ltd. and Asma Farid Noorani submitted that there was no

 quarrel with what had been held by the Court in both cases but submitted

 that neither would apply to the facts of the present case since in the present

 case the suppression of material facts was wilful and deliberate unlike in

 both the cases relied upon. He then pointed out that in the case of K.L.F.

 Nirmal Industries Pvt. Ltd. , the Plaintiff had produced documentary

 evidence demonstrating that its interactions with the Defendant were

 limited in nature and were governed by a specific confidentiality

 arrangement. Moreover, the employee alleged to have knowledge of the

 Defendant's activities had already left the Plaintiff's employment by the time

 the suit in that case was filed and it was in those circumstances that the

 Court held that the Plaintiff's non-disclosure of its past dealings was

 inadvertent and not deliberate. Similarly, from the judgement in the case of

 Asma Farid Noorani , he pointed out that although the Defendant had

 alleged suppression on the ground that the Plaintiff had failed to disclose a

 prior suit, the Court observed that the earlier action had been instituted

 against a party under a different name, and hence Plaintiff could not have

 known that the Defendant in the earlier suit and the subject suit were the

 same and hence it was held that there was no deliberate non disclosure on

 the part of the Plaintiff after also noting that the Plaintiff was pursuing

 independent actions against distinct infringers using identical marks. Mr.

 Kamod then pointed out that both K.L.F. Nirmal Industries and Asma Farid

 Noorani had been considered and distinguished in later decisions of this

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 35/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 Court in the case of Atyati Technologies Private Limited and Laser Shaving

 (India) Private Limited , where the Court had vacated ex parte ad interim

 injunctions solely on the ground of suppression of material facts. 54. In response to the Plaintiff's contention that the stand taken before the Trade

 Marks Registry in 2018 was wholly unrelated to the present proceedings,

 Mr. Kamod submitted that the Plaintiff had completely misconstrued the

 Defendants' contention on this aspect. He submitted that whether or not the

 prior stand of the Plaintiff would constitute estoppel was not the issue and

 would ultimately be decided in the course of trial. He however, submitted

 that the stand taken by the Plaintiff in the course of obtaining registration in

 Class 25 was a relevant fact which was required to have been disclosed as

 held by this Court in the case of PhonePe Private Limited more so when the

 Plaintiff was moving ex parte. Mr. Kamod took pains to point out that the

 Plaintiff had sought to distinguish the decision in the case of PhonePe Private

 Limited by submitting that in the case of PhonePe the parties to the Suit and

 before the Trade Mark Registry were the same. However in the present case,

 the Defendants were not a party before the Trade Mark Registry during the

 course of the Plaintiff's Class 25 registration proceedings and hence the

 question of prosecution history applying did not arise. Mr. Kamod then

 pointed out that this distinction was factually incorrect since in the case of

 PhonePe Private Limited the concerned trade marks also belonged to third

 parties who were not parties to the Suit, as was clear from paragraph 27 of the said decision . 55. Mr. Kamod thus submitted that the Plaintiff by suppressing the stand taken

 before the Trade Mark Registry in obtaining its registration in Class 25 had

 effectively misled this Court into granting the ex parte order since what had

 weighed with the Learned Judge while granting such relief was that the

 words "DOCTOR" and "SOFT" were essential and distinctive features of the

 Plaintiff's mark, which was diametrically opposite to the stand taken by the

 Plaintiff in the course of obtaining its registration in Class 25. 56. Mr. Kamod submitted that the contention of the Plaintiff that the Defendants

 had for the first time in the Affidavit of Evidence dated 24 th December 2024

 asserted its user of the impugned trade mark since April 2022 was false on

 the face of the record. He pointed out that a bare perusal of the Counter

 Statement filed by Defendant No. 1 on 19 th July 2024 clearly showed that

 Defendant No. 1 had asserted the use of the impugned trade mark since

 April 2022. 57. Mr. Kamod then, in dealing with the contention that the evidence produced

 by Defendant No. 1 before the Trade Mark Registry failed to show user of

 the impugned trade mark by the Defendants since the year 2022, submitted

 that inherent in such contention of the Plaintiff was an admission of the fact

 that Defendant No. 1 had in fact produced documents on record to show use

 of the trade mark DOCTOR HEALTH SUPER SOFT by the Defendants since

 April 2022. He submitted that the Plaintiff was attempting to trivialise the

 evidence of user produced by the Defendant No. 1 by stating that there were

 only 17 orders shown in the purchase order, thus accepting that such orders

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 37/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 infact did exist, and the Plaintiff was aware of the same. Mr. Kamod

 submitted that even one instance of use was enough to show that the

 Defendants were using the impugned trade mark since April 2022, and

 hence the assertion that the Plaintiff became aware only in March 2025 was

 a patently false statement. 58. He further reiterated that what was relevant when moving for ex parte ad

 interim reliefs was the fact that this evidence ought to have been both

 annexed and pointed out to the Court at the time when the Plaintiff applied

 for the ex parte ad interim order, which was admittedly not done. He

 submitted that the evidentiary value of the Defendant's evidence was

 something that would be adjudicated and would be adjudicated upon in the

 proceedings before the Trade Mark Registry. 59. Mr. Kamod submitted that the contention of the Plaintiff that Flipkart portal

 listings do not constitute use was not only unsubstantiated but plainly

 dishonest since the Interim Application (L) No. 26177 of 2025 filed by the

 Plaintiff under the provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 2A of the CPC specifically relied upon the Flipkart portal listings of the Defendants to

 allege that the Defendants continue to use the impugned trade mark after

 the impugned ex parte Order. 60. Mr. Kamod then, in dealing with the contention that the Plaintiff had before

 the Trade Mark Registry produced evidence of user in respect of

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 38/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 and not pointed out that a bare perusal of the Plaint and

 Interim Application, especially the prayers, showed that the grievance of the

 Plaintiff against the Defendants pertained to the use of the trade mark

 DOCTOR HEALTH SUPER SOFT by the Defendants. He pointed out that even

 prayer clause (a) of the Interim Application, in terms of which the ex parte

 ad interim injunction had been granted, was in respect of the mark

 DOCTOR HEALTH SUPER SOFT. He submitted that there could be no quarrel

 with the fact that the leading and essential feature of both and

 was the trade mark DOCTOR HEALTH SUPER SOFT. He thus

 submitted that the Plaintiff was only attempting to create an artificial

 distinction between the Defendants' label marks only to suit its case. He

 submitted that the evidence produced by the Defendants to show use of

 either of the two label marks established use of the trade mark DOCTOR

 HEALTH SUPER SOFT by the Defendants. Mr. Kamod then, as and by way of

 illustration, submitted that if an injunction was granted against the use of

 the trade mark "McDonald", the fact that the Defendant against whom such

 injunction has been granted uses a yellow or red or any other colour label to

 display the trade mark "McDonald" would make no difference, and the

 injunction will operate against the use of any label which comprises the

 trade mark "McDonald' word per se. He thus submitted that the attempt of

 the Plaintiff to distinguish between the Defendants' use of the

 and labels was plainly absurd and really a red herring. 61. Mr. Kamod also submitted that it was relevant to note that the trade mark

 application filed by the Defendants for on a proposed to be

 used basis under No. 6653161 was in Class 35, which is a separate and

 distinct Class as compared to Class 25, in which Class Defendant No. 1 had

 filed its trade mark application under No. 5288145 for , along

 with evidence to show user since April of the year 2022. 62. Mr. Kamod then, in dealing with the contention that the Defendants were

 not entitled to any reliefs in view of the conduct of the Defendants submitted

 that these contentions were not only meritless but also plainly outside the

 scope of the present application under Order XXXIX Rule 4 of CPC . He thus

 submitted that the same was not being dealt with in this application. 63. Mr. Kamod reiterated that in the facts of the present case, this Court should

 dismiss the Suit itself however, if the Court was not so inclined, then the

 Interim Application ought to be dismissed on the ground of material

 suppression alone without going into the merits of the case.

Reasons and Conclusion 64. After having heard Learned Counsel for the parties and having considered the

 material and case law relied upon, my findings are as follows: iv. Prior Stand: It is not in dispute that the Plaintiff, during the course

 of obtaining registration in Class 25, had specifically taken the

 stand that the Plaintiff was not claiming any exclusive right in the

 words "DOCTOR" or "SOFT", and on the basis of which, the Plaintiff

 had secured registration under Class 25. As held by this Court in

 PhonePe Pvt. Ltd., the stand taken by a Plaintiff before the Registrar

 of Trade Marks during prosecution of its own trade mark

 application is a relevant factor. The Plaintiff's contention that the

 decision in PhonePe Pvt. Ltd. is inapplicable on the ground that the

 Plaintiff had not made any representation to the Defendants and

 that any representation made by the Plaintiff to a third party in the

 course of the registration proceeding would be wholly inapplicable

 and accordingly irrelevant to the present case. This contention has,

 however, been answered by this Court in the case of PhonePe Pvt.

 Ltd. in which this Court has noted that " The Plaintiff is not justified

 in contending that once it has obtained registration for its trade

 mark, the stand taken on its behalf in the proceeding leading upto

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 44/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 grant of such registration cannot haunt the Plaintiff in subsequent

 legal proceedings."21 Thus, clearly, the stand taken by the Plaintiff in

 the course of obtaining its Class 25 registration was a relevant

 material fact which was required to have been disclosed by the

 Plaintiff more so since the Plaintiff was moving for ex parte ad

 interim relief. Hence, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 the case of Suzuki Parasrampuria Suitings (P) Ltd., upon which

 reliance was placed by the Plaintiff, would not apply since the

 question which presently falls for consideration is not whether the

 Plaintiff would be bound by such a stand qua the Defendant, but

 whether the stand taken by the Plaintiff was a relevant factor which

 the Plaintiff was required to disclose. B. Second, the contention that the non-disclosure of the disclaimer or

 limitation was "inadvertent" is wholly untenable. As already noted, the

 Plaintiff's registration in Class 25 formed the very foundation of the

 Plaintiff's claim for ex parte ad interim relief. Also, the Plaint contains

 extensive and largely irrelevant details concerning the Plaintiff's

 registration in Class 25; however, the three most material aspects

 pertaining to such registration, namely, (i) the territorial

 limitation/disclaimer, (ii) the evidence of prior user by the Defendants of

 the impugned trade mark, and (iii) the Plaintiff's prior stand before the

 Trade Marks Registry, are all absent. It is inconceivable that the omission

 of all these three material facts was the result of inadvertence. To even

21 Paragraph 28 of PhonePe Pvt. Ltd

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 45/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 suggest this would, in my view, is an affront to the Court and to condone

 such "inadvertence" would amount to putting a premium on dishonesty

 since it would embolden other dishonest litigants to obtain ex parte

 orders by suppressing material facts and then simply plead

 "inadvertence". Also, it is not in dispute that the Plaintiff has only one

 registration in Class 25 and not multiple registrations. Had the Plaintiff

 had multiple registrations in the same Class, and had the Plaintiff omitted

 to produce the status in respect of only one, such contention might have

 been plausible, however, not so when the Plaintiff admittedly has only one

 registration and has kept back three material facts in respect of that one

 registration. Thus, I have no hesitation in holding that the Plaintiff has

 deliberately suppressed material facts from this Court.

 C. Third, as observed by the Division Bench of this Court in Kewal Vasoya, a

 Plaintiff seeking to move ex parte is under a strict obligation to act with

 the utmost good faith and to make a full, fair, and frank disclosure of all

 material facts, including those that may be adverse to its own case. In the

 present matter, given that the Suit is a Commercial IP Suit, and that the

 Plaintiff was moving for ex parte ad interim relief, it was incumbent upon

 the Plaintiff to have disclosed whether the Plaintiff's registration in Class

 25 was subject to any disclaimer. Crucially, the Plaintiff has at no point

 denied knowledge of the said limitation/disclaimer or that the same

 applied only to the State of Maharashtra but has simply stated that the

 non-disclosure of the same was 'inadvertent'. Thus there is no

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 46/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 explanation even offered by the Plaintiff as to why, despite being fully

 aware of the fact that the Plaintiff's Class 25 registration would apply

 only to the State of Maharashtra, this was not even pleaded. The Plaintiff

 has not only failed to make such disclosure but has relied upon a

 registration certificate that was not intended for use in legal proceedings

 without annexing the status page of the Plaintiff's registration in Class 25,

 which would have all the relevant details pertaining to the said

 registration. It was on the strength of this defective and incomplete

 disclosure that the Plaintiff applied for an ex parte ad interim injunction,

 which admittedly operated beyond the State of Maharashtra, a relief that,

 as conceded by the Plaintiff during oral submissions, the Plaintiff would

 never have been entitled to on the strength of the Plaintiff's registration in

 Class 25. D. Fourth, by suppressing the Counter Statement and Affidavit of Evidence

 filed by Defendant No. 1, both of which evidenced user of the impugned

 trade mark since April 2022, and then asserting that the Plaintiff became

 aware only in March 2025 of the use of the impugned trade mark the

 Plaintiff has not only created a false sense of urgency but, in my

 unhesitating view, made a false and misleading statement. The complete

 lack of bona fides on the part of the Plaintiff is also manifest from the fact

 that the Plaintiff had, during the course of the Plaintiff's application for

 registration in Class 25, not claimed exclusivity over the words

 "DOCTOR" and "SOFT" and on that basis obtained registration in Class 25. The Plaintiff, however, did not disclose this stand in the Plaint and then,

 on the basis of a diametrically opposite stand to the stand taken by the

 Plaintiff at the time when the Plaintiff had applied for the Class 25

 registration, obtained ex parte ad interim relief. The deliberate and

 selective withholding of such material, namely (i) the territorial

 limitation/disclaimer, (ii) the evidence of prior user by the Defendants of

 the impugned trade mark, and (iii) the Plaintiff's stand before the Trade

 Marks Registry while obtaining registration in Class 25, is, in my view,

 clearly a fraud which has been played on this Court by the Plaintiff only

 to obtain the ex parte ad interim order. Thus the conduct of the Plaintiff is

 plainly dishonest and, infact, unscrupulous. E. Fifth, the Plaintiff's dishonest and unscrupulous conduct is further

 manifest from the fact that, (i) though the Plaintiff in the course of oral

 arguments, contended that the Plaintiff had immediately clarified the

 omission of the limitation/disclaimer, there was infact no immediate

 clarification. It was only after the suppression was pointed out by the

 Defendants in the Affidavit in Reply, did the Plaintiff in the Affidavit in

 Rejoinder state that the omission was inadvertent and nothing more (ii)

 even after the Defendants brought the limitation/disclaimer on record, the

 Plaintiff made no attempt to modify and/or restrict the operation of the ex

 parte order to only the State of Maharashtra, despite subsequently in the

 course of oral arguments conceding that Plaintiff would not have on the

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 48/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 basis of the Class 25 registration been entitled to an injunction for

 infringement beyond the geographical limits of the State of Maharashtra (iii) the Plaintiff then after the suppression of the disclaimer was pointed

 out alleged contempt on the part of the Defendants and filed an

 application under the provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 2A of the CPC on

 18th August 2025 (iv) in the contempt proceedings, the Plaintiff filed

 multiple affidavits (on 2nd, 12th, and 24th September 2025) alleging

 aggravated contempt on the part of the Defendants clearly only to delay

 the matter. This conduct clearly shows that even after the

 limitation/disclaimer was brought on record by the Defendants, the

 Plaintiff did everything possible to ensure that the ex parte ad interim

 order continued. Crucially, during the oral arguments, the Plaintiff

 contended that the limitation/disclaimer was "wholly immaterial" since

 the Suit was filed with the State of Maharashtra, initially overlooking but

 then conceding to the fact that the injunction operated pan India and was

 not confined in its operation to only the State of Maharashtra. Hence, the

 Plaintiff not only obtained the ex parte ad interim injunction by playing a

 fraud upon this Court but has also, thereafter, when the same was

 brought on record, brazenly sought to ensure that the same continued.

 F. Sixth, I find no merit in the content that, in the facts of the present case, it

 would be in the interest of justice that the ex parte ad interim order be

 either continued or moulded to apply only to the State of Maharashtra. The Plaintiff's dishonest and unscrupulous conduct has disentitled the

 Plaintiff to such relief, even assuming the Plaintiff had made out a case in

 support of such relief. Furthermore, this contention of the Plaintiff is

 premised entirely on the assumption that the Defendants have infringed

 the Plaintiff's statutory rights under Sections 28 and 29 of the Trade

 Marks Act, 1999, and are therefore disentitled to any relief under Order

 XXXIX Rule 4 of the CPC . This contention was premised entirely on the

 basis that the Defendants had "admittedly" infringed the Plaintiff's

 statutory rights when, infact, there is no admission of infringement, as

 conceded by the Plaintiff. Thus, merely because the Plaintiff has filed a

 Suit for infringement does not automatically mean that the Defendants

 have committed infringement. If the Plaintiff's contention is to be

 accepted, then in every suit for infringement, the Defendant would

 automatically be deemed to be guilty of infringement on the filing of a

 Suit by a registered proprietor. Such an interpretation of Sections 28 and 29 of the Trade Marks Act is plainly untenable, as a Defendant would be

 deemed guilty of having committed infringement simply on the Plaintiff's

 ipse dixit. Hence, for these reasons, the Plaintiff's reliance upon the

 judgement in the case of Kewal Vasoya in support of the proposition that

 a Court has the discretion to continue an ex parte order even when there

 is suppression if the interests of justice so require is entirely misplaced. G. Seventh, equally untenable is the Plaintiff's submission that the ex parte

 ad interim order had "conclusively found the Defendants guilty of

 infringement and that the Defendants had not preferred any appeal

 against the ex parte order". Such a contention needs only to be stated to be

 rejected since (i) the question of there being any conclusive findings

 rendered in an ex parte ad interim order does not arise, (ii) the order was

 obtained by playing a fraud upon this Court, and (iii) the Defendants

 have taken recourse to the provisions of Order XXXIX Rule 4 of the CPC to set aside the ex parte ad interim order. Hence, it is absurd to suggest

 that there has been any acquiescence on the part of the Defendants.

 H. Eighth, in light of what is held by me in (A), (B) and (D) above, the

 judgements in the case of K.L.F. Nirmal Industries Pvt. Ltd. and Asma Farid

 Noorani upon which reliance was placed by the Plaintiff will not apply

 since in the present case the suppression is wilful and deliberate. Also, I

 find that there is nothing in the conduct of the Defendants so as to

 warrant denial of the reliefs which have been sought for by the

 Defendants. The overarching issue before the Court is the dishonest and

 fraudulent conduct of the Plaintiff and the manner in which the ex parte

 order has been obtained, the ex parte. This is something that cannot be

 condoned. Hence, the judgements in the cases of Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd.

 and Kilachand Devchand & Co. Ltd relied upon by the Plaintiff are of no

 assistance to the Plaintiff in the facts of the present case. I. Ninth, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of Ramjas Foundation v.

 Union of India , has held that every Court is not only entitled but is duty

 bound to protect itself from unscrupulous litigants who do not have any

 respect for truth and who try to pollute the stream of justice by resorting

 to falsehood or by making misstatements or by suppressing facts which

 have a bearing on the adjudication of the issues arising in the case. The

 Hon'ble Supreme Court has also, in the case of Prestige Lights Ltd., held

 that suppression of material facts by a litigant justifies outright dismissal

 of proceedings. Both this Court in the case of Nagina Ramsagar Choube

 and the Delhi High Court in the case of Om Prakash Gupta have, at the

 interlocutory stage itself, dismissed suits on finding that the Plaintiff had

 suppressed material facts. J. Tenth, on the aspect of costs, I must only note the observations of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Dnyandeo Sabaji Naik, in which the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court has, inter alia, held as follows: Also, since the present Suit is a Commercial Suit the conduct of the

 Plaintiff which I have already noted above, is also a relevant factor when

 considering the aspect of costs. Additionally, since the present Suit is a

 Commercial Suit, the question of costs is to be considered in light of Section 35 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended by the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , which would also necessitate the conduct

 of the Plaintiff to be taken into account. This position has been recognised

 in Sai Trading Co. v. KRBL Ltd. , and Dashrath B. Rathod v. Fox Star Studios

 India Pvt. Ltd. The Plaintiff has also given an undertaking in terms of Rule

 126(ix)(a) of the Bombay High Court (Original Side) Rules, 1980, to pay

 damages or costs as may be directed by the Court, should the Defendants

 suffer any prejudice by reason of such interim order. Thus the Plaintiff

 was therefore fully aware of the consequences that would ensue in the

 event of any prejudice being caused to the Defendants by the grant of

 such ex parte relief. The Defendants have set out that their entire business

 has come to a standstill by virtue of the ex parte ad interim Order, and

 Defendant Nos. 1 and 3 have also on Affidavit setting out the sales figures

 duly certified by a chartered accountant for the month of June 2025, i.e.,

Meera Jadhav ::: Uploaded on - 17/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 18/10/2025 00:27:15 ::: 53/53 iaL-18278-25.doc

 the month prior to the passing of the ex parte Order. Hence an Order of

 costs must follow. 65. In the aforesaid circumstances, I pass the following order: