RESERVED ON : SEPTEMBER 16, 2025

 PRONOUNCED ON : OCTOBER 14, 2025 2 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 P.C.: 1. By these bail applications under Section 439 Cr.P.C., the
 applicants seek regular bail in Crime Reg. No. I-64 of 2017 dated 6
 July 2017 at Nhava Sheva Police Station, Navi Mumbai. The
 offences alleged are under Sections 465 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 IPC. 2. The FIR alleges that the applicants sold flats that belonged to
 the landowner's share without the landowner's consent. The
 complaint says the applicants misused a Special Power of Attorney
 given to applicant Mrs. Pankti Jignesh Goradia. The Power of
 Attorney, it is said, authorised sale only of flats belonging to the
 applicants' component. M/s. Shreeji Associates is a proprietorship
 firm engaged in land development and construction since 2007. Its
 sole proprietor is Mrs. Pankti Goradia. Since 2007 the applicants
 consulted Advocate Arun Tripathi at Vashi. In 2013 Advocate
 Tripathi represented that his company Vishrut Infotech Pvt. Ltd.
 (later Vishrut Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.) owned Plot No.30, Sector 17,
 Ulwe, Navi Mumbai. He proposed joint development as the owner
 lacked funds and technical capacity. Vishrut Infotech was promoted
 by the Tripathi family. Advocate Tripathi was a director; his son Mr.
 Vishrut Tripathi handled the business. After negotiation the parties
 agreed a 50:50 development. Each party would get 50% of total
 flats and shops. Each party's share was 27 flats and 2 shops. A
 Joint Development Agreement dated 12.09.2013 was executed and
 registered. A Special Power of Attorney was also executed. 3. In January 2014 Axis Bank, after due diligence, examined 3 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 relevant documents including the Development Agreement, the
 Special Power of Attorney given by the owner to Mrs. Pankti
 Jignesh Goradia and the NOC. Axis Bank approved the project
 Maple Carniva. This approval enabled purchasers to obtain
 housing loans from Axis Bank. 4. The prosecution says that on 7 October 2016 Axis Bank's
 Fraud Control Unit informed its Head Office about a public notice
 in Vashi Times published by Vishrut Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. The
 notice stated that flats in Maple Carniva were being sold using
 fabricated documents and that Axis Bank had granted loans
 against certain flats. On probing the complaint prosecution prima
 facie alleges that: 5. For obtaining housing loans the flat purchasers submitted
 agreements to sell, Power of Attorney dated 28 October 2013,
 demand letters and NOCs for mortgage creation. Under the
 development agreement dated 12 September 2013 Vishrut granted
 development rights to the applicant on a 50:50 basis. The power of
 attorney given by Vishrut was only to sell Vishrut's share of units.
 Using that power of attorney 17 flats belonging to Vishrut were
 sold to Shanmugnath Sunder Raj and others. 6. The agreements to sell presented by the flat purchasers were
 treated as genuine. On that basis, and on the basis of NIC for
 mortgage issued by the applicant, Axis Bank was induced to
 advance housing loans amounting to Rs.5,65,91,310/-. Those
 funds were deposited in the current account of M/s. Shreeji
 Associates. The Bank suffered wrongful loss. 7. This Court by order dated 13 March 2018 granted
 provisional bail to applicant Pankti Goradia on the basis of an
 undertaking given by her husband before the Sessions Court,
 Alibaug. The undertaking required attempts to amicably settle the
 dispute with the landowners. On 19 October 2019 this Court
 granted interim bail to Jignesh Goradia after recording an
 affidavit, a draft Memorandum of Settlement and undertakings by
 the applicants. 8. On 12 February 2019 this Court noted that the applicants
 were released on provisional bail on the undertaking to deposit
 Rs.5.9 crore and complete construction within 120 days. The Court 5 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 observed the undertakings were not complied with and the
 applicants offered oral excuses without material on record.
 Interveners opposed continuation of provisional bail. The Court
 directed the applicants to remain present and continued
 provisional bail. 9. On 5 March 2019 the Court recorded a statement on behalf
 of the applicants that purchasers had deposited Rs.1.12 crore with
 the bank. The applicants said the balance of Rs.3.41 crore, after
 adjusting Rs.1.12 crore, would be deposited in Court. This
 statement was accepted as an undertaking. The Court made clear
 that any single default by the applicants would lead to vacating
 interim relief. 10. On 5 March 2020 the Court directed the Chief Engineer,
 Public Works Department to depute an officer to inspect
 construction. On 14 November 2022 the Court recorded that out of
 58 units, 50 units were occupied. Yet interveners continued to
 agitate non-completion. 11. On 29 April 2025 the Court directed the applicants to file an
 affidavit stating when they would give possession and whether
 flats were habitable. 12. The applicants explain compliance with monetary
 undertakings as follows: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc b) Applicants filed an additional affidavit on 19 October 2018
 recording settlement for Rs.7.65 crore within 100 days from
 Jignesh's release. c) Pankti's undertaking was a qualified undertaking as per the
 consent terms annexed to that affidavit. d) Clause 11 of the draft consent states Rs.1.75 crore already
 lying with the owner would be adjusted from Rs.7.65 crore. The
 remaining Rs.5.90 crore was to be paid after Jignesh's release. e) Jignesh filed an affidavit on 19 October 2018 recording
 settlement at Rs.7.65 crore. He stated the developer was to receive
 Rs.3.50 crore from purchasers per their agreements. The developer
 said she would be able to pay owners after receiving purchasers'
 amounts. f) The affidavit dated 19 October 2018 and the draft
 Memorandum of Settlement were taken on record and provisional
 bail was granted to Jignesh. g) Applicants filed an application in civil court to record the
 consent terms. It recorded that purchasers of all 58 units agreed to
 contribute funds to Axis Bank. Each purchaser would contribute at
 least Rs.2 lakh as a loan for 24 months at simple interest 9% p.a. h) Several affidavits followed in bail proceedings. On 5 March
 2019 the Court recorded compliance. Applicants deposited Rs.25
 lakh at end of March 2019. This completed deposit of Rs.90 lakh
 by the applicants. Bank statements showing Rs.25 lakh were
 placed on record. This shows applicants performed their 7 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 obligation. The flat purchasers deposited Rs.1.12 crore with the
 bank and undertook to deposit the balance in Court. i) On 15 January 2020 the Court noted purchasers had not
 honoured deposit of Rs.3.41 crore after adjusting Rs.1.12 crore.
 The Court said it would consider whether flat owners committed
 contempt. j) The applicants say they complied by depositing Rs.90 lakh.
 Axis Bank agreed to deposit Rs.95 lakh which would cover
 applicants' liability as recorded on 5 March 2019. Applicants allege
 Axis Bank failed to deposit Rs.95 lakh. Purchasers undertook to
 bring Rs.3.41 crore but deposited only Rs.1.12 crore. Thus Axis
 Bank and purchasers failed to perform their obligations. k) Applicants submit they complied with their monetary
 undertakings and met their share. l) The undertakings by applicants flowed from an all-party
 consent accepted by this Court on 25 October 2018. m) In short, all parties agreed an amicable settlement and
 applicants gave undertakings. The interveners and first informant
 did not comply with their parts. 13. On compliance with construction and society registration: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc c) In the order dated 5 March 2019 the Court suggested
 verification by an independent nodal agency such as CIDCO. The
 Court appointed CIDCO to verify. d) CIDCO submitted a Site Visit Report concluding construction
 was completed as per "as built drawing" and General Development
 Control Regulations for Navi Mumbai. e) After completion it was owner's duty to apply for Occupation
 Certificate since permissions and sanctions stood in the owner's
 name. The owner did not apply for OC. Thus OC remained
 pending. f) Communications, including from the Architect, requested the
 owner to apply for OC. g) To avoid delay applicants helped purchasers form a society.
 Maple Carniva CHS Ltd. was registered with the Deputy Registrar
 of Cooperative Societies. Applicants consented to registration. h) Due to delay and vacancy during two years of Covid-19 some
 breakage and wear occurred. The society and developer entered an
 agreement dated 28 June 2022. The society agreed to arrange
 funds near Rs.50 lakh for repairs and replacements. i) The society applied for deemed conveyance. On 17 January
 2025 the Deputy Registrar issued order of deemed conveyance in
 favour of the society. The society filed an affidavit regarding IC and
 completion as per plans. The society executed a unilateral deed of
 conveyance on 3 February 2025. The landowner challenged
 deemed conveyance by Writ Petition No.2695 of 2025. This Court 9 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 on 27 February 2025 observed proceedings under Section 11(3) of
 MOFA were subject to the outcome of a pending civil suit. j) The deed of conveyance shows the society admitted
 possession of the project and satisfaction with deliverables. The
 society undertook to apply for OC from CIDCO. k) The society requested the then Architect to resign. The
 society appointed a new Architect and applied for OC with CIDCO.
 That application is pending. Applicants helped the society with
 documentation and guidance. l) Applicants say, that the project is fully completed as per
 developer obligations under the development agreement and as
 per the undertaking to this Court. 14. Learned Advocate for the interveners submits that the
 developers calculated sources of money to settle with landowner.
 The affidavits by Pankti and Jignesh formed the basis for
 provisional bail. Paragraph 3 of Pankti's affidavit dated 19 October
 2018 states the landowners agreed to Rs.7.65 crore settlement, of
 which Rs.1.75 crore was already paid. The balance Rs.5.90 crore
 was to be paid to transfer clear marketable title and enable Axis
 Bank mortgage. Mrs. Pankti undertook to arrange Rs.5.9 crore as
 follows: 15. Interveners consist of 33 to 34 purchasers. Seventeen
 interveners are represented by Advocate Nilesh S. Bagade. The
 interveners say they know only their pending amounts. They do
 not know breakdown for Rs.3.5 crore as claimed by developer. The
 onus of Rs.3.5 crore rests on the developer, not on interveners. All
 purchasers, including the 17 interveners, deposited legitimate
 pending balance in Axis Bank escrow except the help money. The
 help money was not deposited for reasons stated below: Purchasers hesitated to deposit help money because the developer
 had not first deposited Rs.3 crore in special account No.1. The
 developer opened only special account No.II. Interveners allege
 mala fide intent to grab purchasers' funds. ii) Under paragraph 5 of the affidavit Mrs. Pankti undertook to
 pay Rs.15,000 per month to purchasers from 1 May 2018 until
 completion. She failed to pay this compensation. The outstanding
 from 1 May 2018 to 1 July 2024 for each purchaser totals
 Rs.11,25,000, exceeding the help money. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc iii) Of the Rs.1.4 crore claimed (Rs.90 lakh developer + Rs.50
 lakh from non-interveners), only Rs.75 lakh was in escrow. Non-
 intervener Mr. Basantilal Ostwal deposited Rs.15 lakh which the
 developer incorrectly counted as developer contribution. The
 developer never informed majority of non-interveners about
 required deposits. iv) The onus to arrange balance from remaining purchasers rests
 with the developer, not with interveners. The developer did not
 contact purchasers or write to them. The developer breached the
 consent terms. 16. Maple Carniva CHS Ltd. formed in 2022 obtained deemed
 conveyance. In its first AGM the provisional committee decided to
 raise about Rs.50 lakh for pending works to obtain OC. Quotations
 for works exist. The provisional committee acted as developer did
 not fulfil obligations even after 10 years. The then Secretary Dr.
 P.N. Kutty signed the MoU with developer. He later informed the
 managing committee that he signed under compulsion because the
 developer created adverse circumstances and made false promises
 to deliver possession. 17. According to Interveners the conditions of provisional bail in
 Pankti's additional affidavit dated 19 October 2018 were: c) Para 4(c): Within 30 days of release, deposit at least Rs.1.5
 crore in special Axis Bank account. Not complied. Account not
 opened; deposit not made. d) Para 4(d): Within 60 days, deposit additional Rs.1.5 crore so
 total Rs.3 crore. Not complied. e) Para 4(e): Special account to be jointly operated by Jignesh
 and a nominee of purchasers. Disbursement to be supported by
 invoices and documents. Not complied. Account not opened.
 Developers intended mala fide non-compliance to grab purchasers'
 money. f) Para 4(f): Developer to receive balance Rs.3.5 crore from
 purchasers which purchasers would deposit in separate account
 within 90 days. Developer acknowledged discrepancies and
 undertook to arrange shortfall. Interveners say Rs.3.5 crore is
 developer's figure and purchasers only knew their own 4%
 pending. Most purchasers already deposited their balance in
 designated Account No.II. Discrepancies remain due to developer's
 failure to resolve quantum and shortfall. g) Para 4(h): Developer requested purchasers to contribute Rs.1
 crore collectively. Interveners deny any such communication. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc h) Para 4(i): Purchasers agreed to contribute Rs.2 lakh each as
 help money to Axis Bank Account No.II within 90 days from
 release as refundable loan for 24 months at 9% p.a. Purchasers did
 not deposit as special account No.1 was not opened and developer
 did not deposit Rs.3 crore. Developer opened only Account No.II.
 Purchasers hesitated for good reason. i) Para 4(j): Amounts collected in clauses f, g, h to be deposited
 in designated Account No.II with signatories Jignesh and
 purchaser representatives and bank. The funds to clear title,
 procure OC and complete formalities. Account No.II was opened
 for that purpose. All 33 purchasers deposited legitimate pending balance in
 escrow except a few who disagreed with developer's quantum.
 Developer promised to resolve discrepancies and cover any
 shortfall, but did not. Developer never informed many purchasers
 about deposits, thereby breaching consent terms. j) Para 4(k): Developer undertook to refund help money with
 agreed interest after 24 months. If unable, purchasers may pursue
 legal action. Developer did not deposit help money. k) Para 4(l): Amounts in Account No.II to be released to Vishrut
 Enterprises at end of 120 days upon completion. Work not
 completed and release does not arise now. l) Para 4(m): If settlement breaks due to developer non-
 compliance or reasons beyond purchasers' control, help money to
 be returned and Rs.3.5 crore to be returned to purchasers. If later
 settlement occurs, purchasers to pay Rs.3.5 crore to developer 14 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 within 15 days from notice. Developer did not comply. m) Para 4(o): Developer undertook to install lifts, parking
 system and fire system within 120 days. As per flat agreement
 developer to install lifts of reputed make. One lift installed was
 local make. Developer breached undertaking. n) Para 4(p): Developer undertook not to compromise on
 quality. Interveners allege quality was compromised and technical
 deviations were made to cut cost. o) Para 4(q): Developer undertook to provide post-OC
 maintenance funds to society. CIDCO's inspection and site visit
 reports show non-compliance and alleged false statements about
 parking. Interveners say work is not complete and OC cannot be
 obtained. Post-OC commitments do not arise. p) Para 4(r): Developer undertook to arrange any shortfall per
 consent terms. Developer never approached purchasers to resolve
 discrepancies. q) Para 5: Developer undertook to complete construction within
 120 days. If not, purchasers entitled to Rs.15,000 per month
 compensation from May 2018. Not complied. r) Para 9: Developer urged Court to grant bail due to proposed
 settlement. Developer declared that failure to comply would cancel
 bail and they would surrender. Axis Bank and purchasers could
 take steps to protect rights. Interveners say developer failed to
 comply and enjoyed provisional bail for six years despite breaches;
 provisional bail must be cancelled. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc 18. Mr. Mokashi, learned counsel for respondent Nos.3 to 19,
 opposed bail. He reiterated that interveners number 33 to 34
 purchasers; 17 interveners are represented. They know only their
 pending amounts and not the Rs.3.5 crore breakdown. The onus of
 Rs.3.5 crore rests with the developer. All purchasers, including the
 17 interveners, deposited pending balance in escrow except help
 money. The help money was not deposited for reasons already
 stated. 19. The Rs.2 lakh was a refundable help loan for 24 months at
 9% interest. Purchasers did not deposit it because special account
 No.1 was not opened and the developer did not deposit Rs.3 crore
 per clauses 4(c) and 4(d). The developer should have first
 deposited Rs.3 crore in special account No.1. Purchasers therefore
 withheld help money. The developer opened only special account
 No.II. Interveners allege mala fide intent. 20. Per paragraph 5 of the affidavit, Mrs. Pankti undertook to
 pay Rs.15,000 per month from 1 May 2018 till completion. She
 failed to pay. Outstanding from 1 May 2018 to 1 July 2024 for
 each client is Rs.11,25,000 which exceeds the help money. 21. Of the Rs.1.4 crore claimed (Rs.90 lakh developer + Rs.50
 lakh non-interveners), only Rs.75 lakh stood in escrow. Another
 non-intervener Mr. Basantilal Ostwal deposited Rs.15 lakh which
 the developer counted as developer contribution. Developer never
 informed majority of non-interveners about deposits for
 settlement. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc 22. The onus to arrange balance money from remaining
 purchasers rests with the developer. Developer did not contact
 purchasers or write to them. The developer breached consent
 terms. 23. Mr. Sabrad, learned counsel for respondent No.23, opposed
 bail on grounds the applicants did not complete construction. Play
 area equipment was removed for non-payment; gym equipment is
 incomplete; DG set not installed; electrical works incomplete;
 lobby sliding windows missing; design deviations and poor
 workmanship; automated car parking not assembled; fire fighting
 system not installed; requisite funds to pay Rs.5.50 crore to
 landowner not deposited in escrow. He further submitted that
 applicants undertook to install Schindler lifts but installed one
 local make lift compromising purchaser safety. Several technical
 deviations were made to cut cost and jeopardise purchasers. 24. Facts preceding provisional bail are that Plot No.30, Sector
 17 Ulwe was acquired from CIDCO by Vishrut Enterprises. From
 tripartite agreement the plot and building remained in Vishrut's
 exclusive possession. By agreement dated 11 September 2013
 Vishrut engaged the accused for development. In consideration
 Vishrut agreed to sell 50% of constructed area to accused upon
 completion. The bifurcation appears as Annexures H and H-1. The
 accused repeatedly assured Vishrut they would complete the
 project so Vishrut could sell its share. The accused allegedly
 executed agreements to sell for all flats including Vishrut's 50%
 without authority by misusing or forging documents and the
 power of attorney. It later emerged the same pattern used across 17 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 four projects; each project triggered independent FIRs and
 remained incomplete. 25. Pankti filed Bail Application No.151 of 2018 after trial court
 rejected bail. In her bail application she again undertook to
 amicably settle transfer of title with Vishrut, which induced the
 Court on 13 March 2018 to grant bail. The undertaking recorded
 that she would initiate all efforts to settle disputes. 26. The accused breached the undertaking. Instead of settling
 they filed a false FIR against Vishrut and its family to pressurise
 Vishrut. 27. That FIR was investigated and found bogus. A closure report
 followed. The Magistrate initiated perjury proceedings against the
 accused observing they misled Court by false material to obtain
 order under Section 156(3) . 28. The charge-sheet for the present crime was filed. The
 respondents discovered a complaint dated 6 February 2018 by Mr.
 Amitkumar Detke to the IO. The complaint reveals intimidation of
 a witness in Court premises. The charge-sheet also contains a
 statement by Mr. Deepak Singh that Jignesh threatened purchasers
 that if they gave statements to police he would never complete
 construction. The accused's conduct on bail, including threats and
 other offences, shows Jignesh is habitual and not entitled to bail.
 On this ground bail should be refused. 29. The Sessions Court by order dated 7 July 2018 cancelled
 provisional bail of Jignesh and rejected his bail on various grounds
 including witness threats. That order is challenged in Bail 18 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 Application No.2574 of 2018. 30. The accused thereafter absconded and filed Bail Application
 No.1728 of 2018. This Court directed surrender but the accused
 refused and withdrew the bail application instead of surrendering. 31. By order dated 5 March 2019 the applicant argued she
 promised to complete construction by 6 February 2019 per
 undertaking dated 19 October 2018 and to deposit dues to
 landowner. Purchasers agreed to contribute sums. Purchasers
 deposited Rs.1.12 crore in escrow. The present intervener
 contributed Rs.1,31,467 in Axis Bank escrow and filed affidavit on
 4 December 2022 in compliance with order dated 5 March 2019.
 Flat owners deposited Rs.1.12 crore in escrow hoping that with
 High Court oversight they would obtain possession. 32. The matter adjourned repeatedly. The Court sought progress.
 At one stage applicants falsely stated 50 of 58 units were occupied.
 That statement appears in the order dated 14 November 2022. 33. On 21 April 2025 the applicant said she would come with a
 proposal on how purchasers would get possession. Interveners
 asked for inspection to determine habitability and marketable title.
 The Court reflected this in order dated 29 April 2025. Axis Bank
 affidavits, undertakings by applicants and various orders show
 purchasers suffered despite payment of almost 90% since 2015.
 They have not received possession. It is submitted that in view of
 orders, affidavits and undertakings, the Court pass appropriate
 directions for handing over possession. The interveners paid
 almost 90% by loans from Axis Bank in 2015. Even after about 10 19 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 years they did not get possession due to disputes among developer,
 landowner, Axis Bank and purchasers. 34. I have considered the record, the rival submissions and the
 orders placed on record. I have heard learned counsel at length. I
 give brief reasons and my findings. 35. The allegations and the charge-sheet show serious offences
 of cheating and forgery. The allegations concern sale of flats
 belonging to the landowner's share. The prosecution case rests on
 documents and on transactions made with Axis Bank. The
 applicants are the developer and her husband/manager. They
 acted as developers and constructed the building. The record
 shows long drawn litigation and multiple interlocutory orders. The
 High Court had earlier enlarged the applicants on provisional bail
 on terms and undertakings recorded before this Court. 36. The material on record establishes the following facts: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc d) Of 58 units, a large number have been occupied. The Court
 recorded in November 2022 that 50 units were occupied.
 Purchasers have paid large sums to acquire the flats. Many
 purchasers deposited sums in the escrow account with Axis Bank.
 e. The applicants deposited funds in the bank and earlier deposited
 Rs.25 lakh at the end of March 2019. The applicants have
 consistently asserted that they complied with monetary parts of
 the settlement to the extent possible. 37. The material on record also establishes the following adverse
 facts against the applicants: 38. The power to grant bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is wide.
 The Court must weigh the nature and gravity of offences, the
 evidence against accused, the risk of tampering with evidence or
 influencing witnesses, the likelihood of absconding, and the
 conduct of accused during earlier grants of liberty. The Court must
 also enforce its own undertakings and orders. An undertaking
 given to this Court is sacred. A breach of an undertaking which
 induces the Court to grant relief is a matter for contempt
 jurisdiction. The Court must protect its processes and the rights of
 third parties who relied on the undertaking. 39. I balance competing considerations. 40. Factors against bail. The offences are serious. There is
 material to show previous breaches of undertaking. One accused
 has a history of absconding and of threatening witnesses. These
 are strong factors against bail. 41. Factors for bail. The accused have already spent long periods
 out of custody on provisional bail. The project shows substantial
 completion on record. Large numbers of purchasers have occupied
 flats and paid consideration. The applicants have deposited part of
 the money agreed in undertakings and have taken steps to
 regularise society formation and to assist in OC processes. Several
 interlocutory steps indicate cooperation with authorities in relation
 to completion and conveyance. The accused are entitled to the
 benefit of liberty when proper safeguards can sufficiently mitigate
 risk of flight and tampering. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc 42. Given the above, the scale tips in favour of conditional bail.
 The public interest in securing justice and punishing real
 contempts must not be diluted. At the same time, custody pending
 trial for an indefinite period where significant performance is
 shown and where rigorous conditions can protect witnesses and
 the public purse would be hard on accused who have a right to
 personal liberty. 43. I grant bail to both applicants in Crime Reg. No. I-64 of 2017
 on the following terms and conditions. These conditions are
 stringent. They are necessary to protect the public, purchasers and
 the process of this Court. a) Each applicant shall be enlarged on bail on furnishing
 bail bonds of Rs.5,00,000 with two solvent sureties each in
 the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court. The
 sureties shall produce proof of identity and proof of
 ownership of immovable property in Maharashtra. b) Both applicants shall surrender their passports
 forthwith to the Registry and shall not apply for any travel
 document. The Registry shall endorse the surrender order on
 the passport. c) Both applicants shall not leave India without prior
 permission of this Court. d) Both applicants shall cooperate fully with the
 investigation and the trial. They shall not tamper with
 evidence. They shall not threaten or influence any witness or
 purchaser. Any breach shall attract immediate cancellation of 23 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 bail and arrest. e) Both applicants shall make themselves available for
 interrogation by the Investigating Officer as and when
 required. f) The applicants shall furnish to the Trial Court within
 15 days a list of all bank accounts, assets and immovable
 properties in their names or in the name of their firms
 relevant to the project. g) The applicants shall provide full cooperation to the
 Maple Carniva CHS Ltd. in securing the occupancy certificate
 and in all acts necessary for handing over possession to bona
 fide purchasers. h) The applicants shall report on the first day of three
 months to the Station House Officer, Nhava Sheva Police
 Station, until the conclusion of trial, between 11.00 a.m. and
 3.00 p.m.

 Initiation of contempt proceedings for breach of undertaking 44. The undertakings recorded before this Court were
 instrumental in enlargement on bail. The record shows material
 breach of those undertakings. A public interest and the rule of law
 require the Court to examine such breach. I therefore initiate
 contempt proceedings. 45. The record clearly shows that the applicants, while seeking
 provisional bail earlier, had voluntarily given written undertakings
 before this Court. These undertakings were not merely informal 24 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 assurances but solemn commitments recorded on oath in affidavits
 filed by both applicants and taken on record by judicial orders. The
 undertakings specifically required the applicants to (i) deposit
 certain sums of money in designated special accounts to be opened
 with Axis Bank, and (ii) complete the construction and other
 related works within specific time lines. The object of these
 undertakings was to secure confidence of the Court that the rights
 of the flat purchasers, the landowner, and Axis Bank would be
 adequately protected during the pendency of the criminal
 proceedings. The Court accepted these undertakings in good faith
 and enlarged the applicants on bail on that basis. However, the
 credible material placed on record, including the subsequent
 affidavits and inspection reports, clearly establishes that the
 applicants failed to strictly adhere to the terms of their own
 undertakings. There is no evidence of the applicants opening the
 designated special accounts in the manner they had assured. No
 contemporaneous document from Axis Bank or any independent
 authority shows that such accounts were opened or operated
 jointly as required. 46. The Court has examined the contents of the above
 undertaking carefully in light of the record and the subsequent
 conduct of the applicants. The language of the undertaking is
 unambiguous and leaves no room for doubt about the
 responsibility personally assumed by the applicants. It contains
 three distinct assurances. 47. First, the applicants undertook to ensure that a separate
 designated account would be opened with Axis Bank within ninety 25 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 days from the release of applicant Jignesh Goradia. The purpose of
 this account was to collect the balance payments from all flat and
 shop purchasers, including amounts sanctioned to them as housing
 loans from Axis Bank or any other financial institution. 48. Second, the applicants expressly acknowledged that there
 existed certain discrepancies in the computation of the amount
 payable by some purchasers. They undertook that such
 discrepancies would be resolved personally by both applicants. 49. Third, and most importantly, they undertook that in case of
 any shortfall arising in the quantum of the amount to be deposited,
 both Mrs. Pankti Goradia and Mr. Jignesh Goradia would
 personally arrange for and make good such shortfall, taking full
 responsibility for the same. They further declared that they
 undertook this obligation towards the customers themselves,
 meaning that their personal liability to meet the shortfall was
 absolute and not contingent upon any external act. 50. The above undertaking was recorded by this Court and
 accepted as part of the conditions on which provisional bail was
 granted. The acceptance of such an undertaking by the Court
 created a binding obligation on the applicants, enforceable not
 merely as a private promise but as a solemn assurance given to the
 Court in the exercise of its judicial power. 51. The subsequent material on record shows that the applicants
 failed to comply with any of the obligations arising out of this
 undertaking. There is no evidence to show that a separate account
 as contemplated was opened within the stipulated period or at any 26 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 time thereafter. No communication from Axis Bank or any
 independent record indicates that such an account ever came into
 existence. Instead, the applicants continued to operate their own
 existing business account, contrary to the specific stipulation of the
 undertaking. 52. Further, the discrepancies in the amounts payable by certain
 purchasers, which the applicants had promised to resolve, were
 never addressed. Multiple affidavits filed by the interveners and
 purchasers before this Court show that several purchasers were
 uncertain about the amount demanded from them and that no
 meeting or communication was initiated by the applicants to
 reconcile or clarify the figures. The applicants, despite repeated
 opportunities, failed to produce any reconciliation statement or
 correspondence evidencing efforts to resolve the discrepancies. 53. Most significantly, the applicants did not fulfil the personal
 obligation to arrange for the shortfall. Once the purchasers
 refrained from depositing the "help money" owing to lack of trust
 and non-opening of the designated account, it was incumbent on
 the applicants to step in and deposit the shortfall themselves as
 promised. The undertaking did not make this obligation
 conditional on purchasers first depositing their part. It clearly
 stated that in case of any shortfall, the applicants would personally
 arrange and deposit the same. The record shows no such deposit
 or even attempt to arrange the amount. 54. The explanation offered by the applicants that purchasers
 failed to cooperate is irrelevant. The obligation was personal and 27 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 unconditional. A party who seeks the indulgence of the Court by
 giving such a solemn undertaking cannot later evade its
 consequences by blaming others. The doctrine of "responsibility to
 the Court" requires that undertakings recorded by judicial order be
 performed in letter and spirit. 55. The record clearly indicates that thirty-three purchasers,
 including the seventeen interveners before this Court, have already
 deposited their legitimate and undisputed balance amounts in the
 escrow account maintained with Axis Bank. This fact is borne out
 by the bank's own statements and the affidavits filed by the
 purchasers. These deposits represent the final payments that each
 purchaser was contractually bound to make at the time of taking
 possession of the respective flats. 56. It also emerges that the exact figure of Rs.3.5 crore, which
 the applicants repeatedly referred to in their undertakings and
 submissions, was never a verified or reconciled figure. It was an
 estimated amount put forth solely by the applicants themselves
 without any supporting computation or statement of accounts. The
 applicants have admitted in their own affidavit that there were
 "some discrepancies" in this figure in relation to a few purchasers
 and that they would personally resolve such discrepancies.
 However, there is no material on record to show that any such
 reconciliation was ever carried out. 57. In contrast, the purchasers have consistently maintained
 that, as per their respective flat agreements, only a small
 percentage, approximately four percent, of the total price 28 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 remained payable at the time of possession. This was the balance
 linked to the final handing over of possession and not an
 additional financial liability. Each purchaser was aware only of his
 or her individual outstanding balance, which was a fixed and
 agreed sum under the sale agreement. They were not informed of,
 nor were they party to, the broader financial calculations made by
 the developer in projecting the figure of Rs.3.5 crore. 58. The Court finds merit in this contention. The purchasers had
 discharged their obligations to the extent recorded in their
 agreements, and the balance amount due on possession was
 neither disputed nor withheld without cause. The responsibility to
 verify, reconcile, and substantiate the alleged figure of Rs.3.5 crore
 rested entirely with the developer, who alone was in possession of
 the project accounts and financial details. Having themselves
 acknowledged the existence of discrepancies and yet failing to
 resolve them, the applicants cannot now rely upon that unverified
 figure to shift blame onto the purchasers. 59. Therefore, on the strength of the credible documentary
 evidence on record, it stands established that the amount of Rs.3.5
 crore was never a confirmed or agreed liability of the purchasers as
 a group. Each purchaser was bound only to pay the limited
 balance amount, constituting about four percent of the total
 consideration, which was linked to possession under the terms of
 the individual flat agreements. The failure of the applicants to
 produce reconciled statements, to open the designated account,
 and to personally make good the alleged shortfall as undertaken,
 constitutes a wilful breach of the solemn assurance given to this 29 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 Court. This default assumes greater significance as it directly
 caused delay in handing over possession and inflicted hardship on
 the flat purchasers, despite their having fulfilled their part of the
 bargain in accordance with law. 60. By failing to (i) open the designated account, (ii) resolve
 discrepancies with purchasers, and (iii) personally make good the
 shortfall, the applicants have violated a clear and unconditional
 undertaking given to this Court. The breach is not technical or
 inadvertent. It strikes at the core of the basis on which the Court
 granted provisional bail. The conduct shows that the applicants
 secured liberty by representing to the Court that they would
 perform these obligations, but once liberty was obtained, they
 disregarded them entirely. 61. There is further credible evidence showing breach of specific
 undertakings relating to quality of construction and installation of
 fittings. The applicants had undertaken before this Court to install
 lifts of a reputed make, as mentioned in the development
 agreement and in the flat purchase agreements. The undertaking
 specifically referred to installation of lifts of "Schindler" make.
 However, the material on record, including the report submitted by
 the interveners and photographs annexed to their affidavits, shows
 that only one lift of the said make was installed and the other was
 of a local manufacturer. The applicants have not produced any
 technical certificate or invoice to prove otherwise. The same
 position is also reflected in the independent reports filed by CIDCO
 and the architect, which show variations and deviations from the
 sanctioned plan and the commitments made in the undertakings. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 The deviation in the quality of material used and installation of
 substandard fittings clearly amounts to breach of an undertaking
 given to the Court on oath. The very purpose of granting
 provisional bail based on undertakings was to secure compliance
 with quality and completion obligations so that the purchasers
 could receive what they were promised. The evidence on record,
 therefore, demonstrates a conscious and deliberate failure on the
 part of the applicants to honor the quality-related commitments
 given to this Court. 62. The cumulative conduct of the applicants in failing to open
 the designated accounts, in not depositing the assured sums, and
 in not ensuring completion of the project and installation of
 fittings as undertaken, has caused serious prejudice to both the
 purchasers and Axis Bank. The purchasers continued to be
 deprived of the lawful possession of their flats despite having paid
 almost the entire consideration years ago. The Bank too remained
 exposed to risk since the security of the loans granted by it was
 dependent upon completion of the project and transfer of clear
 and marketable title to the flat purchasers. The purchasers and the
 Bank had relied upon the undertakings accepted by this Court in
 good faith. Those undertakings carried the seal of judicial
 authority and therefore created legitimate expectations that the
 applicants would act accordingly. The non-performance of such
 undertakings not only undermined the trust of the purchasers and
 the Bank but also affected the sanctity of orders of this Court. The
 breach was not a result of any external cause or impossibility. It
 was due to the applicants' own neglect, failure to act with 31 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 diligence, and disregard for commitments made to the Court. 63. Such deliberate and willful disobedience of a solemn
 undertaking accepted by this Court constitutes a serious contempt.
 It is not merely a private wrong but an affront to the authority of
 the Court and to the sanctity of its orders. The undertaking was
 intended to protect the interests of innocent purchasers and to
 ensure the completion of the project without further dispute. The
 applicants' failure to act on it has caused prejudice to numerous
 purchasers who continue to be without possession despite having
 paid substantial amounts. 64. Taken together, the above facts establish a clear pattern of
 conduct that is inconsistent with bona fide compliance. The
 applicants not only failed to fulfil their contractual and legal
 obligations but also violated solemn undertakings given to this
 Court. Their conduct caused delay in completion of the project,
 hardship to flat purchasers, and erosion of confidence in the
 integrity of judicial orders. The undertakings were not conditional
 promises but binding obligations that carried the force of
 assurance given to the Court itself. Violation of such undertakings
 cannot be treated as a mere lapse, it amounts to deliberate
 disobedience of the authority of the Court. On the strength of
 credible documentary evidence, this Court is thus satisfied that the
 applicants have breached their solemn undertakings recorded in
 judicial proceedings. Their conduct reflects lack of bona fides.
 Such conduct has obstructed the due administration of justice and
 caused tangible loss and inconvenience to innocent purchasers.
 Hence, while this Court considers that the applicants may be 32 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 released on bail subject to strict conditions, their deliberate failure
 to honor the undertakings calls for initiation of contempt
 proceedings to uphold the authority of law and to maintain the
 sanctity of the judicial process. 65. This Court, therefore, finds prima facie that the applicants'
 non-compliance amounts to wilful breach of the undertaking given
 to this Court. Their explanation does not inspire confidence. The
 default is neither trivial nor excusable. It reflects a conscious
 decision to disregard the binding assurance made to the Court and
 thereby interferes with the administration of justice. Therefore,
 this Court holds that the applicants' conduct amounts to willful
 breach of undertakings accepted by this Court and recorded in its
 orders. It also demonstrates disregard for the sanctity of the
 judicial process and prejudice caused to innocent purchasers who
 acted in reliance upon those undertakings. 66. Hence, having considered the entire record, the nature of the
 undertakings given by the applicants, and their subsequent
 conduct which clearly discloses a wilful and deliberate breach of
 the solemn assurance given to this Court, I am satisfied that a
 prima facie case of contempt is made out. 67. The undertakings dated 19 October 2018 and 5 March 2019
 formed the very basis on which this Court had granted provisional
 liberty to the applicants. Those undertakings contained clear and
 unconditional obligations (i) to open a separate designated
 account with Axis Bank for collection of amounts from purchasers, (ii) to resolve discrepancies in computation of payable amounts, 33 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 ::: ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc

 and (iii) to personally deposit or arrange the shortfall, taking
 complete responsibility. 68. The Registry shall issue notice in Form No. 9 under Rule 9 of
 the Bombay High Court (Contempt of Court) Rules, 1994, calling
 upon the applicants, Mrs. Pankti Jignesh Goradia and Mr. Jignesh
 K. Goradia, to show cause why action should not be taken against
 them for wilful disobedience of the undertakings given to this
 Court and accepted by judicial order. 69. The notice shall be made returnable within four weeks from
 today. Both applicants shall remain personally present before this
 Court on the returnable date to show cause as to why they should
 not be punished for contempt under the Contempt of Courts Act,
 1971 . 70. The Registrar (Judicial) shall register a separate Contempt
 Petition (Suo Motu) under the caption Court on its Own Motion v.
 Pankti Jignesh Goradia & Anr., assign it a proper number, and
 place the same before appropriate Bench on the returnable date. 71. Both applicants are directed to remain personally present
 before this Court on the date fixed, unless specifically exempted by
 the Court. 72. Grant of bail is not a vindication of the applicants on merits.
 The grant flows from the balance of factors and the imposition of
 strict conditions. The initiation of contempt proceedings proceeds
 from the Court's duty to enforce its own orders and protect public
 faith in judicial processes. ba151-2018 & connected-Final.doc 73. The Investigating Officer shall be at liberty to move the Trial
 Court for modification of bail conditions or for suspension of bail
 on proof of breach. The Trial Court shall act expeditiously. 74. Axis Bank and Maple Carniva CHS Ltd. and other bona fide
 purchasers shall have liberty to move this Court or the Trial Court
 for further protective measures including attachment of assets or
 appointment of receiver for completion of pending works. 75. The Registry shall list the contempt show cause matter
 within four weeks. The Trial Court will record compliance of the
 bail conditions within ten days of deposit being made by the
 applicants. 76. For the reasons recorded above, bail stands granted on the
 terms stated. Simultaneously, notice in contempt is issued and
 show cause proceedings shall commence. The liberty granted is
 conditional and provisional. Any breach will attract immediate
 cancellation and arrest. 77. Both the bail applications are disposed of. 78. All pending interlocutory applications stand disposed of in
 terms of this order. (AMIT BORKAR, J.) 35 ::: Uploaded on - 14/10/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 14/10/2025 21:41:13 :::