1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No.: 510 of 2020 a/w
 Cr. MP(M) Nos. 511 and 512 of 2020

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Judge
Whether approved for reporting?1 No.

For the petitioner: Mr. Sanjeev Bhushan, Senior Advocate,
 with Ms. Abhilasha Kaundal, Advocate,

 through Video Conferencing. For the respondent: M/s Somesh Raj, Dinesh Thakur and
 Sanjeev Sood, Additional Advocate

 Generals, with Ms. Divya Sood, Deputy
 Advocate General, through Video
 Conferencing. Ajay Mohan Goel, Judge (Oral) : By way of these three petitions filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the petitioners have prayed for grant 1 Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the Judgment? of regular bail in FIR No. 143 of 2019, dated 06.11.2019, registered under Section 420 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section

66(D) of the Information Technology Act at Police Station Dharampur,

 . District Solan, H.P. 2. The petitioners are stated to be in custody since

08.02.2020. The allegation against the petitioners is that complainant Dr.

Jai Prakash Bhatiya responded to an advertisement for the sale of a Car

bearing registration No. HP-12H-8859, posted by one Shri Madan Lal,

son of Shri Santokha, resident of Village and Post Office Kundlu, Tehsil

Nalagarh, District Solan, H.P. on his Facebook. Complainant contacted

said Madan Lal on his mobile number and agreed to purchase the Car in

issue subject to fulfillment of formalities, like test drive and finalization of

price. Requisite documents were sent by the complainant through

WhatsApp to complete the formalities of the sale of the Car. According to

the complainant, Madan Lal demanded a sum of Rs.10,500/- for

documentation of the vehicle, which payment was made through Net- banking into relevant PAYTM account in two installments. Later on, the

complainant received a phone call from delivery boy Vikash, who

demanded a sum of Rs.31,550/- for clearance of the vehicle from

Panchkula. This amount was paid in three installments by the

complainant. As per the complainant, thereafter again a demand was

raised for an amount of Rs.29,500/- for the payment of GST, which was

followed by a demand of Rs.27,750/-. Complainant told the delivery boy ::: Downloaded on - 06/05/2020 20:23:00 :::HCHP 3 that the balance amount shall be paid only after the Car was delivered. As complainant did not make the last payment of Rs.27,750/-, the

delivery boy stopped talking with him and even did not reply to his

 . WhatsApp messages. On this, complainant suspected a foul play and

accordingly, he lodged a complaint with the Police, which was registered

as FIR No. 143/2019. After lodging of said FIR, the matter was

investigated by the Police and as per the prosecution, the investigation

has revealed that the petitioners were involved in this entire crime,

whereby purportedly, a fraud was played by them upon the complainant

in the guise of selling him a vehicle through advertisement on OLX, thus

alluring the complainant to deposit a substantive amount in their PAYTM

accounts. It is further the case of the prosecution that the PAYTM

account and ATM are maintained by accused petitioner Vishnu Kumar,

who keeps the entire transaction and thereafter the money is got

distributed between all the petitioners. 3. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner

submits that the petitioners are 19 years young boys. They are not guilty

of the offences alleged against them. They are behind bars since

08.02.2020. No recovery is to be effected from them and at present, no

fruitful purpose will be solved by keeping them behind bars. He has

further argued that even otherwise, taking into consideration the fact that

the maximum punishment, as is envisaged under Section 420 of the

Indian Penal Code, is seven years and as the challan has not been filed ::: Downloaded on - 06/05/2020 20:23:00 :::HCHP 4 within the statutory period of 60 days, the petitioners are entitled for bail

automatically. Mr. Bhushan further submitted that in case of grant of

bail, the petitioners undertake to furnish the requisite securities and they

 . also undertake to abide by all the terms and conditions which may be

imposed upon them by this Court. 4. On the other hand, learned Additional Advocate

General has argued that the offences alleged against the petitioners are

serious, as they have indulged in Cyber Crime, which has become the

norm of the day and persons involved in such like crimes need no

sympathy. He has further argued that though it is not in dispute that the

petitioners are 19 years old boys, however, fact of the matter remains

that it is not as if they have committed the offences in issue for the first

time, because investigation has revealed that previously also they have

indulged in similar Cyber Crimes. He further argued that as the

petitioners belong to the State of Rajasthan, in the event of grant of bail,

there is each and every possibility that they may jump the bail and may

not present themselves to face the trial. Learned Additional Advocate

General has also argued that as two primary witnesses are from the

villages of the accused, there is a possibility that the petitioners would

make an endeavour to win over the said witnesses to throttle the trial. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and have

also gone through the status report, which has been filed by the State. 6. Though opportunity was granted to the State, however,

till date, the State has not been able to substantiate its contention that

the petitioners are habitual offenders and they have indulged in similar

 . offences, leading to registration of FIRs. The alleged offences, indeed, are

grievous, as Cyber Crimes are rising these days, however, fact of the

matter remains that whether or not the petitioners are guilty of the

offences alleged against them, is a matter of trial and it is for the Trial

Court to decide the said issue, depending upon the evidence, which shall

be placed on record by the parties concerned. The petitioners are 19

years old boys, who belong to the State of Rajasthan. They are in custody

since 08.02.2020 and are presently in judicial custody. Taking into

consideration the factum of FIR having been registered under Section 420

read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66(D) of the IT

Act and petitioners are in judicial custody, in my considered view, no

purpose will be solved by keeping the petitioners in custody and it will be

in the interest of justice to release them on bail by imposing stringent

conditions, so that the apprehension of the State can be taken care of

that the petitioners may not misuse the bail. 7. Accordingly, these petitions are allowed and the

petitioners are ordered to be released on bail, on each of them furnishing

a personal bond to the tune of rupees One Lac with two sureties each of

the same amount in the case of each of the petitioners. This will be to the

satisfaction of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Solan. 8. At this state, learned Additional Advocate General has

stated that the petitioners may also be directed to report at the Local

Police Stations of their respective villages in the State of Rajasthan on the

 . first date of each of the month. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners

submits that the petitioners are not averse to the same. Accordingly, it is

ordered that the petitioners shall appear before the Station House Officer

of the respective Police Stations of their villages and give their presence. 9. In addition, the grant of bail is subject to the following

conditions: . 10. For the purpose of furnishing of bail bonds, in case any

requisite permits are required by the concerned sureties, then the

Authorities shall deal with the request so made by persons who are to

furnish sureties in this regard in consonance with the protocol prevailing

in the area concerned on account of COVID-19 pandemic. Petitions stand disposed of accordingly, so also

pending miscellaneous applications, if any. (Ajay Mohan Goel)
 Judge
May 06, 2020
 (bhupender) ::: Downloaded on - 06/05/2020 20:23:00 :::HCHP