Hon'ble Pramod Kumar Srivastava,J. This petition has been filed with a prayer to issue a writ of certiorari for quashing FIR No. RC/DST/2013/A/0005 dated 28.05.2013 as also the chargesheet dated 17.12.2014 arising out of the NRHM Scam. The petition is on behalf of M/s V.S. Pharma, Lucknow, through Sanjay Awasthi and others as petitioner no. 1 and Dr. Vijay Kumar Srivastava as petitioner no. 2. The affidavit has been sworn by Sri Sanjay Awasthi, the petitioner no. 1 and is dated 21st July, 2015 in support of the petition. We find from the averments made in the writ petition that the petitioner has filed a copy of the FIR and has also filed a copy of the chargesheet dated 17.12.2014 that are Annexure - 1 to the writ petition. Not only this, the same annexure is also accompanied by the order of cognizance taken by the learned Special Judge, Anti-Corruption, CBI, Ghaziabad on 5th January, 2015. The cognizance order is against both the petitioners. It does not appear to reason as to why a prayer for quashing the cognizance order has not been made, inasmuch as, what the petitioners are questioning are faulty investigation and non-compliance of the guidelines of the CBI manual but have prayed for quashing of the FIR and the chargesheet. The prayer which has been couched in a manner appears to have been done only with a view to avoid the normal remedy available to the petitioners by filing a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. after the chargesheet has been filed and a cognizance order has been passed. This petition therefore clearly seeks to overcome the cognizance order dated 5.1.2015 which has conveniently and deliberately not been challenged even though the relief prayed for, if granted, would amount to quashing of the order passed by the trial court taking cognizance. Thus, this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in effect is seeking to avoid the entire proceedings including the cognizance order passed by a criminal court. In our considered opinion, this issue cannot be now raised through a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, once cognizance has been taken by the court and the proceedings are pending before a court of law for the reasons set out hereinafter. There is yet another peculiar feature which deserves to be noted at this stage. The narration in the writ petition nowhere indicates the filing of a Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal) No. 833 of 2015 by the petitioner no. 1 before the Apex Court or the details of any order passed thereon, but in the list of dates and events at Page 1 and 2 at Item No. 4 and 5 a reference has been made to the aforesaid Special Leave Petition filed before the Apex Court. In view of the aforesaid indication in the list of dates and events, it is evident that the petitioners deliberately did not disclose such facts on affidavit in the memo of writ petition. The court however has got the order downloaded through internet services passed in the said Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal) No. 833 of 2015, the leading petition of the present petitioner, where orders disposing of the petitions have been passed on 14th July, 2015 by the Apex Court on the said special leave petition alongwith other connected matters:- (Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 16/01/2015 in AN No. 152/2015 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench)
 

 
 SANJAY AWASTHI 								Petitioner(s)
 

 
 VERSUS
 

 
 STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND ANR. Respondent(s)
 
CORAM : 	HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR				HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE V. GOPALA GOWDA			HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE R. BANUMATHI
 
 UPON hearing the counsel the Court made the following
 
O R D E R
 

 
S.L.P. (Crl.) Nos. 4664/2015, 4654/2015, 4839/2015, 4892-4894/2015, 4832/2015, 5107/2015, 5274/2015, 3603/2015, 5029/2015, 5031/2015, 5116/2015 and CRLMP No. 10918/2015 in S.L.P.(Crl.) No. 3725/2015: The special leave petitions are disposed of with the above directions. We make it clear that the amount of deposit made by the petitioners in terms of the court's order shall have no bearing on the legitimacy and/or legality of the prosecution launched by the CBI. According to the aforesaid judgment, the appellants had approached the High Court by filing a Section 482 Cr.P.C. Application for quashing the chargesheet and warrants issued, but the same was dismissed by the High Court, whereafter the above mentioned special leave petitions appear to have been filed. The Apex Court accordingly taking notice of such facts appears to have issued the directions granting relief of bail to the appellants including the petitioner. As against Column No. 5 of the list of dates and events in the present petition, the petitioners' counsel have stated that since the legal questions regarding validity of FIR and power to investigate in contravention of the guidelines of the CBI Manual, had not been raised before the Apex Court, therefore, the present writ petition is being filed. We are clearly of the opinion that it was open to the petitioners to have raised any such issues raised herein either in a Section 482 Cr.P.C. Application which according to the Apex Court judgment had already been done whereafter Sanjay Awasthi, the petitioner no. 1 approached the Apex Court and the order above quoted was passed. Thus such additional issues that are being canvassed could and ought to have been raised which were not raised according to the petitioner himself. In such circumstances, we cannot entertain this petition for raising any such issue after the cognizance order has been passed. The entire matter now rests with the court hearing the case and if any person is aggrieved by the passing of any intervening orders, it is open to him to avail of such remedy which may be available in law and if permissible under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and 483 Cr.P.C . The present writ petition therefore does not deserve to be entertained at all for the aforesaid reasons and we accordingly decline the relief prayed for by the petitioners herein. At the same time the court has come across judgments of learned Single Judges of this court holding that orders passed on the judicial side by criminal courts pending final judgment are not amenable to the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In the present case also as observed above, the petitioners even though have not incorporated a specific prayer, yet the relief is couched so as to seek annulling of the proceedings of the trial court, under the garb of quashing of FIR and chargesheet, including the cognizance order dated 5.1.2015 and the consequential orders passed by the trial court which are judicial orders. The following judgments by the learned Single Judges of this Court have been noticed by us and are quoted hereinunder:- Order Date :- 3.4.2015" 4. The Larger Bench answered first question in affirmative holding that against judicial orders of Civil Courts writ petition under Article 226 would not lie. It also held that jurisdiction under Article 227 is distinct from Article 226. The basic reason assigned by Court is that against orders of Tribunal, writ petition under Article 226 may be filed but in respect of orders of Civil Courts, since a specific provision is provided under Article 227 , the same cannot be challenged under Article 226. Drawing parity therefrom the learned A.G.A. submitted that judicial orders passed by Criminal Courts also comes within the same category as judicial orders passed by Civil Courts, therefore, writ petition under Article 226 would not lie. 5 When confronted with aforesaid position, learned counsel for petitioner could not give any reply and fairly stated that apparently the law laid down by Apex Court in Radhy Shyam (supra) and the reasoning given therein would also be attracted in the case of judicial orders passed by Criminal Courts. 6. In view thereof, the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, in respect of judicial orders passed by Criminal Court, would not lie. It can be challenged in a petition filed under Article 227 , provided the grounds and limitations thereunder are satisfied. This writ petition challenging judicial orders passed by Criminal Court has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution, therefore, apparently it is not maintainable. 7. Even otherwise, having heard learned counsel for petitioner and going through the impugned order as also pleadings and grounds taken in writ petition, I do not find any error apparent on the face of record in the order impugned in this writ petition warranting interference. 8.Dismissed. 9. Interim order, if any, stands vacated. Order Date :- 1.5.2015 " 4. The Larger Bench answered first question in affirmative holding that against judicial orders of Civil Courts writ petition under Article 226 would not lie. It also held that jurisdiction under Article 227 is distinct from Article 226. The basic reason assigned by Court is that against orders of Tribunal, writ petition under Article 226 may be filed but in respect of orders of Civil Courts, since a specific provision is provided under Article 227 , the same cannot be challenged under Article 226. Drawing parity therefrom the learned A.G.A. submitted that judicial orders passed by Criminal Courts also comes within the same category as judicial orders passed by Civil Courts, therefore, writ petition under Article 226 would not lie. 5. When confronted with aforesaid position, learned counsel for petitioners could not give any reply and fairly stated that apparently the law laid down by Apex Court in Radhey Shyam (supra) and the reasoning given therein would also be attracted in the case of judicial orders passed by Criminal Courts. 6. In view thereof, the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, in respect of judicial orders passed by Criminal Court, would not lie. It can be challenged in a petition filed under Article 227 , provided the grounds and limitations thereunder are satisfied. This writ petition challenging judicial orders passed by Criminal Court has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution, therefore, apparently it is not maintainable. 7. Even otherwise, having heard heard learned counsel for petitioners and going through the impugned order as also pleadings and grounds taken in writ petition, I do not find any error apparent on the face of record in the order impugned in this writ petition warranting interference. 8. Dismissed. 9. Interim order, if any, stands vacated. Order Date :- 15.5.2015" 5. Bhairav Prasad Vs. State of U.P. & Others , Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 8704 of 2011, decided on 15.7.2015:- The issue of a writ petition being maintainable or a Section 482 Cr.P.C. Application being maintainable was dealt with in two judgments of this court. A seven Judges full bench in the case of Ram Lal Yadav & others Vs. State of U.P. and others , 1989 Cri.L.J 1013 came to the conclusion that the powers of the police to investigate a crime, cannot be interfered with in the inherent exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and consequently, if an FIR had to be challenged before the filing of a chargesheet, the High Court can always issue a writ of mandamus under Article 226 directing the police officer not to misuse his legal powers. In other words, a writ petition could be entertained for quashing of the FIR. It may be kept in mind that in the State of U.P. there are no provisions enforced for anticipatory bail. The issue as to whether a writ petition would be maintainable, even for quashing of a chargesheet came to be answered by a division bench of this Court in the case of Atique Ahmed, M.L.A. Vs. State of U.P. and others, 2001 (43) ACC 710, where it was held that Article 226 of the Constitution of India could be invoked for quashing of proceedings but very sparingly and with a circumspection in the rarest of rare cases. However, while proceeding to so hold, the said division bench relied on a five judges full bench of the Patna High Court in the case of Surendra Singh Vs. State of Bihar , 1991 Cr.L.J. 3040 and also on a two judges decision of the Apex Court in the case of M/s Pepsi Foods Limited vs. Special Judicial Magistrate , AIR 1998 SC 128. While quoting the said decision of M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra), the court noted the observations in relation to the exercise of powers under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India as well as the inherent powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. of the Code. It was held in the aforesaid decision of the Apex Court that the exercise of powers under Article 227 is not only a power of Superintendence, or of an administrative nature, but is also of a judicial nature, which is exercised to prevent the abuse of the process of the law by the inferior courts and to see that the stream of administration of justice remains clean and pure. It was further observed that the powers under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution as well as under Section 482 Cr.P.C. of the Code, have no limits, but more the power more due and care and caution is to be exercised while invoking such powers. It was also observed that it would not be necessary to invoke provisions of Article 226 always if the exercise of powers can be made under Article 227 or Section 482 Cr.P.C. Further it was observed that the nomenclature under which the petition is filed may not be relevant and if the court finds that it cannot invoke jurisdiction under Article 226 then the petition can either be treated under Article 227 or Section 482 Cr.P.C. The court went on to reiterate the principles in the case of State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal , 1991 (28) ACC 11 (SC). Thus the aforesaid judgment did indicate that a writ petition if could not be entertained in the exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution then the nomenclature would make no difference if the powers could be exercised within the parameters under Article 227 of the Constitution of India or under Section 482 Cr.P.C. This was a clear case in relation to exercise of powers by the High Court in criminal matters and arising out of orders passed by Criminal Courts. The situation which has arisen here is that the learned Single Judges in the judgments quoted above have proceeded to apply the principles enunciated by a three Judges' decision in the case of Radhey Shyam and another vs. Chhabi Nath and others , (2015) 5 SCC 423 to dismiss writ petitions arising out of orders passed by criminal courts. The said decision in the case of Radhey Shyam has also found approval by another latest decision of the Apex Court which is a two judges decision in the case of Sh Jogendrasinhji Vijaysinghji Vs. State of Gujarat and others , Civil Appeal No. 2374 of 2015, decided on 6th July, 2015. What has to be noticed is that the three judges decision in Radhey Shyam 's case went on to hold that the ratio in the case of Surya Dev Rai Vs. Ram Chander Rai , (2003) 6 SCC 675, which was in relation to an order of a Civil Court came up for consideration and the following reference order was formulated for being placed before a larger bench to consider the correctness or otherwise of the law laid down in the case of Surya Dev Rai (supra). The referring order which is reported in (2009) 5 SCC 616 is extracted from the decision of Radhey Shyam (supra) which is as follows:- The court while proceeding to answer the reference proceeded to observe in Paragraph 26 as follows:- A perusal of the referring order and a perusal of Paragraph 26 extracted and highlighted hereinabove, would demonstrate that reference has been made to disposal of cases under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India in relation to orders passed by the Civil and Criminal Courts. However, while answering the question finally, the aforesaid three judges decision in Radhey Shyam 's case (supra) states as follows in Paragraph 27 to 29.3:- A perusal of the said penultimate paragraph clearly indicates that judicial orders of the Civil Court are not amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and the contrary view of Surya Dev Rai stands overruled but the words "Criminal Courts" are not mentioned. The question that now arises for being considered is that neither the case of Surya Dev Rai (supra) nor the case of Radhey Shyam (supra) related to the exercise of powers by a criminal court and its challenge raised in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India or the remedy under Article 227 of the Constitution or under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The issue of correctness or otherwise of the entire judgment in Radhey Shyam 's case (supra) was again argued at length before a learned Single Judge of this Court in Writ Petition No. 11761 of 2015, Thakur Prasad Vs. Beni Prasad and others. The writ petition following the ratio of Radhey Shyam 's case which was under Article 226 was dismissed on 25th March, 2015 but made an observation in Paragraphs 42 to 44 as follows:- Thus what appears is that firstly the issue of orders passed by Criminal Courts and the exercise of powers by the High Court in criminal matters was not the exact issue raised in the case of Radhey Shyam (supra). The judgment in the case of Radhey Shyam also does not appear to have noticed the ratio of the Apex Court decision in the case of M/s Pepsi Foods Limited & another Vs. Special Judicial Magistrate and others , AIR 1998 SC 128. The learned Single Judges of this Court who have dismissed the writ petitions on the ground that a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution would not be maintainable against a judicial order passed by a criminal court have also not referred to the judgment in the case of M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra) but the fact remains they have held that it can be challenged in a writ petition under Article 227 provided the grounds of limitations therein are satisfied. There is yet another constitutional dimension about a citizen enforcing his rights of judicial review and waiver of constitutional remedies that directly touch upon the issue of denial of such remedies resulting in hitting the basic structure of the Constitution. This issue now in the wake of decisions that have come forth need not be gone into as it is not a point of challenge in the present writ petition. The dimensions that seek to touch not only the basic structure doctrine but also the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 , 19 , 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India for a person facing criminal prosecution is also not the issue raised herein and therefore this court refrains from entering into these questions. However, the judgment in the case of M/s Pepsi Food Ltd. (supra), where the issue of nomenclature has been discussed and it has been held that a nomenclature would not make any difference and the court is not debarred from exercising its inherent jurisdiction if it otherwise possesses, does not appear to have been considered. In view of the decision in the case of M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra), a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. can be resorted to and this aspect therefore deserves to be clarified that even if a petition under Article 226 is held to be not maintainable as per the decision aforesaid, in appropriate cases a Section 482 Cr.P.C. application can be filed which is a separate statutory remedy apart from the constitutional remedy in appropriate cases under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. We therefore make it clear that the jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain petitions under Article 227 subject to the legal limitations as enunciated by the Apex Court, and petitions under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is not diluted by Radhey Shyam 's (supra) decision as the judgment in the case of M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra) has not been overruled therein. We also approve of the view taken by the Calcutta High Court in the case of Scottlane Poverty Eradication Centre and another Vs. State of West Bengal and others , W.P. 14592 (W) of 2012, decided on 17.05.2013 and the decision in the case of Indrani Chakraborty Vs. State of West Bengal and others , W.P. No. 7378 (W) of 2014, decided on 08.09.2014. A copy of this judgment shall be circulated to the reporting section of the High Court both at Allahabad and Lucknow by the Registrar General for correct stamp reporting as to the entertaining of writ petitions and Section 482 Cr.P.C. applications arising out of judicial orders passed by all Subordinate Criminal Courts in the light of above after obtaining appropriate orders that may be necessary from Hon'ble the Chief Justice. Consequently, for all the reasons aforesaid and having clarified the law as indicated above no relief can be granted to the petitioners as this petition has also been captioned and framed as a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India practically for annulling the cognizance order passed by the trial court. The writ petition is dismissed with the aforesaid observations. Order Date :- 24.7.2015
 
Sahu