TEJAS KARIA, J
 I.A. 9755/2024 (U/O XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC ) 1. The Plaintiff has filed the present Suit for permanent injunction
 restraining the Defendants from using the Marks 'TESLA POWER' / Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 1 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 'TESLA POWER USA', ' ' and ' ' ("Impugned
 Trade Marks") and / or any other deceptively similar marks including the
 domain names www.teslapowerusa.com, www.Teslapowersusa.in,
 www.Teslapowerusa.ae and www.Teslahealthylife.com ("Impugned
 Domain Names"). 2. Vide Order dated 02.05.2024, the statement of Defendant No. 3 made
 on behalf of the Defendants that the Defendants have no intention to
 manufacture Electronic Vehicles ("EVs") at all and will not market other
 entities' EVs as well under the Impugned Marks and the Trade Name 'TESLA
 POWER USA' and or any other brand deceptively similar or use the word
 'TESLA' was taken on record and the Defendants were directed to be bound
 by the said statement. 3. Vide Order dated 30.05.2024, the learned Senior Counsel for the
 Plaintiff submitted that the Defendants were not abiding by the undertaking
 given by the Defendant No. 3, however, the learned Senior Counsel submitted
 on instructions that the Defendants were abiding by the undertaking and
 handed over documents stating that they had written to all their vendors and
 partners to remove the marks pursuant to having given the undertaking. 4. Vide Order dated 04.09.2025, after conclusion of arguments by the
 Parties, the judgment was reserved. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF 5. The learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff made the following
 submissions: The Plaintiff has also adopted and been using distinctive 'TESLA'

 signature logo ' ' ("T Logo") which represents a cross-section
 of an electric motor in the form of a highly stylized letter 'T'
 ("Plaintiff's Trade Marks"). 5.4. The Plaintiff adopted Trade Mark 'TESLA' in 2003 and is in use
 in commerce since July, 2006. 'T' logo was adopted in the year
 2006 and has been in extensive use since then. 5.5. The Plaintiff has applied and / or has obtained registrations in
 major jurisdictions around the world including India. The details
 of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks registered in India are as under: 5.6. The Plaintiff has submitted that the aforesaid registrations are valid
 and subsisting and in view of Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act,
 1999 ("Act"), the registration of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks is
 prima facie evidence of its validity. As per Section 28 of the Act,
 the Plaintiff has exclusive rights to use the Plaintiff's Trade Marks
 in respect of services for which it is registered and claim relief for
 infringement thereof. 5.7. Over the years, the Plaintiff has derived significant revenues from
 the products sold and services provided under the Plaintiff's Trade
 Marks. The total revenue for the years 2008-2023 from the sale of
 the products and providing the services from the use of the Trade
 Mark 'TESLA' is as under: 5.8. Additionally, the Plaintiff has also spent significant resources on
 marketing, advertising and promotion of the Plaintiff's Trade
 Marks and the Plaintiff's products having been widely covered by
 international media, social media and has gained significant
 recognition by virtue thereof. The same is widely available and
 accessible to consumers around the world including India.
 5.9. The Plaintiff is also the owner of the website www.tesla.com,
 which provides detailed information on the Plaintiff and its various
 products and services under the brand 'TESLA'. The Plaintiff has
 been honoured with many awards and recognitions and the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks have become well-known Trade Marks in
 the automobile industry. The Plaintiff's Trade Marks have become
 immensely popular in the Indian sub-continent and 'TESLA' brand
 vehicles have been purchased by various Indian citizens. The
 accessibility of the Plaintiff's websites is from anywhere in the
 world including India. The statistics of the access by the users of
 the Indian sub-continent of the Plaintiff's websites is as under: 5.10. The Plaintiff's Trade Marks have attained very high goodwill and
 reputation internationally, including in India. The Plaintiff's
 products have been discussed and covered in a number of articles
 and reports published by Indian media houses. The Plaintiff is
 entitled to the protection of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks as the
 Plaintiff has been extensively and continuously using the same
 since 2003, the same have been advertised and promoted
 extensively through the Plaintiff's website and on social media
 platforms. Hence, the Plaintiff's Trade Marks have attained the
 status of being well-known within the meaning of the Act and are
 liable to be protected as such. 5.11. The Defendants are engaged in the acts of infringement and passing
 off of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. The Defendants are offering
 goods and services under the Impugned Trade Marks that
 encompass the Plaintiff's Trade Marks in their entirety and as most
 dominant element. The addition of the descriptive phrase "POWER
 USA" or "POWER INDIA" in the Impugned Trade Marks is
 descriptive and does not distinguish the Defendants' Impugned
 Trade Marks from the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. The Impugned
 Trade Marks are used for the goods which are identical to the goods Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 7 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 in respect of which the Plaintiff's Trade Marks are used and
 registered worldwide including in India. The Defendants are also
 using the Impugned Trade Marks on the websites containing
 Impugned Domain Names and also on social media pages.
 5.12. The Defendants have filed Applications for registration of the

 Impugned Trade Marks, 'TESLA POWER' and ' '
 bearing Nos. 4855017 and 4855802 respectively in Class 9, which

 are pending. When the Plaintiff's Trade Mark " " bearing
 no. 3702930 was cited in February, 2021 against the Application

 for TESLA POWER USA " " bearing 4855802,
 Defendant No. 3 stated that two "marks deal with separate
 consumer base in separate markets, and therefore there is no
 likelihood of confusion". It was further stated by Defendant No. 3

 that the Impugned Trade Mark " " TESLA POWER USA
 is "completely unique and different from any existing trademark in
 the same class and all the goods in a class is not 'cognate' or
 'allied'." The above stand taken by the Defendants makes it clear
 that the Defendants were aware about the Plaintiff's Trade Mark
 since February, 2021. 5.13. Despite the knowledge of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks, the
 Defendants commenced the use of the Impugned Trade Marks in Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 8 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 connection with the goods identical to those of the Plaintiff.
 5.14. Defendant No. 2 has also filed an Application for registration of the
 Impugned Trade Mark 'TESLA POWER USA' in the United
 States of America, bearing No. 90862333 in Class 09 covering
 goods namely "lead Acid Batteries Lithium Ion Batteries Vehicle
 Chargers Solar UPS Industrial UPS", which was issued an Office
 Action refusing registration based on, inter alia, a likelihood of
 confusion with the Plaintiff's 'TESLA' mark and a likelihood of
 creating a false connection with the Plaintiff. 5.15. The use of the Impugned Trade Marks have resulted in an actual
 confusion in the minds of the public as when the Defendants
 announced to enter in the Evs business category in news report
 published 'Business Standard' in December, 2021 referred to the
 Defendants as 'TESLA' and also published photograph of 'T' Logo
 in the News Article referring to the Defendants. The screenshot of
 the said News Article dated 22.12.2021 showing the misuse of the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks and the confusion created because of such
 use is as under: Whilst the Plaintiff was waiting for Defendants' response, the
 Defendants published a full-page advertisement in March, 2023 in
 'Times of India' which is reproduced as under: The Defendants also gave an undertaking before this Court to not
 use their Impugned Trade Marks in relation to EVs. Despite the
 undertaking given before this Court, Defendants continued to sell Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 15 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 the electric scooter bearing the Impugned Trade Marks from
 Defendants' authorised dealers on 21.05.2024. 5.32. On 07.03.2025, the Defendants continued to advertise EVs on
 their website despite the undertaking given before this Court.
 5.33. Even after filing the Suit on 24.03.2025, the Defendants published
 an article stating that "We aim to become the number one brand in
 energy storage by 2025," Tesla Power India Private Limited talks
 about its plans. 5.34. The Defendants have also applied to claim registration over the
 Impugned Trade Marks 'TESLA POWER' and 'TESLA USA'
 formative marks, and therefore, it is estopped in claiming that
 'TESLA' is common to trade. A party cannot approbate and
 reprobate as has been held in the decisions in Automatic Electric
 Limited v. R. K. Dhawan , 1999 SCC OnLine Del 27, Mohd.
 Shakir vs. Gopal Traders and Anr., 2024 SCC Online Del 2571,
 Anchor Health and Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. vs. Procter Gamble
 Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. , 2014 SCC Online Del 2968
 and PEPS Industries Private Ltd. vs. Kurlon Ltd., 2022 SCC
 Online Del 3275. 5.35. The Defendants have not placed on record any actual evidence to
 show that 'TESLA' is common to trade prior to the adoption by the
 Plaintiff. The Plaintiff is not expected to sue every small infringer.
 Further, use by third-party is not a valid defence for infringement
 of Trade Marks as has been held in the case of Pankaj Goel v.
 Dabur India Ltd. 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744, Corn Products
 Refining Co v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd . MANU/SC/0115/1959 and National Bell Co. and Gupta
 Industrial Corporation v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co. (P) Ltd. And
 Ors. MANU/SC/0369/1970. 5.36. The Plaintiff has enormous goodwill worldwide and has trans- border reputation extending to India. The principle of trans-border
 reputation has been reiterated by the Supreme Court in Toyota
 Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha v. Prius Auto Industries Ltd. , ( 2018)
 2 SCC 1 and N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corpn. , (1996) 5 SCC 714. The Plaintiff having substantial goodwill and one of the
 highest valued companies in the world. The Plaintiff's chief
 executive officer ("CEO"), Mr. Elon Musk, is the richest man in
 the world and it is incomprehensible that the Defendants were
 unaware of the Plaintiff and the Plaintiff's Trade Marks.
 5.37. In view of the above, the Plaintiff has been able to make out a
 prima facie case for grant of interim injunction. The balance of
 convenience is also in favour of the Plaintiff and against the
 Defendants who have clearly adopted an identical mark for
 identical as well as allied and cognate goods as those of the
 Plaintiff with mala fide intentions of riding upon the goodwill and
 reputation of the Plaintiff. 5.38. The Plaintiff is suffering grave and irreparable injury every day on
 account of the misuse of the Plaintiff's intellectual properties by
 the Defendants which is apparent from the various complaints /
 criminal complaints / consumer complaints from third-parties
 against the Defendants owing to the fraud committed by them. 5.39. Accordingly, the Plaintiff is entitled to interim relief as prayed for
 in the present Application. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTS: 6. The learned Senior Counsel for the Defendants submitted that: wheelers, four wheelers, trucks, inverters, UPS, water purifiers/
 filters etc and for services for battery rejuvenation. The Impugned
 Trade Marks have been used honestly and with bona fide intent
 since 2020 and the domain name www.teslapowerusa.in was
 registered in April, 2021. 6.2. On the other hand, the Plaintiff's business is of manufacturing and
 selling fully electric vehicles, solar roofs, lithium-ion battery
 energy storage and solar panels. Accordingly, there are no
 similarities between the products and services offered by the
 Plaintiff and the Defendants, let alone any similarity between the
 trade channels. 6.3. Defendant No. 1, like many others, was inspired by the works of
 the famous Serbian American scientist Mr. Nikola Tesla, who was
 an inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, and futurist
 known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating
 current electricity supply system. 6.4. Accordingly, the Defendants adopted its Mark 'TESLA' with
 added matters to the same thereby adopting and coining 'TESLA
 POWER USA' and TESLA POWER in the year 2020. 6.5. Mr. Nikola Tesla's work was instrumental in the development of Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 18 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 many modern technologies including life extension of lead-acid
 batteries which is the unique selling point of Defendant No. 1 as
 well. No person / entity has any exclusive rights over the name
 'TESLA' which is the family name of the famous scientist Mr.
 Nikola Tesla. 6.6. Since adoption of the Impugned Trade Marks, the Defendants have
 used them continuously and extensively in India and have wide
 network of more than 500 distributors and 5000 dealers in India,
 employing more than 1000 people, either directly or indirectly, and
 having substantial sales of more than 360 crores for FY 2020 till
 31.03.2024 and have spent about ₹15 crores on advertising and
 marketing in India. 6.7. The Defendants have a Registered Copyright Certificate for '

 ' along with NOC as a device in an artistic manner
 under copyright bearing Certificate Number A-145625/2023 dated
 09.01.2023 and NOC from the Trade Mark Registry. Defendant
 No. 1 also applied for Trade Mark registration for the Defendants'
 Mark under Trade Mark Application number 4855017 for 'TESLA
 POWER' in Class 09 (for batteries). This Trade Mark Application
 was filed on 09.02.2021. 6.8. The Plaintiff admittedly has not commenced using their 'TESLA'
 Marks for selling their products in India on the date of filing of the
 Suit, despite alleged use of the 'TESLA' Marks since the year 2003.
 In any case, the Plaintiff has admitted that they don't sell any
 products under their 'TESLA' Marks in India or abroad, which are
 sold by the Defendants under the Defendants Marks. In fact, the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 19 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Plaint itself disclosed alleged imports of their cars by select few
 individuals from abroad to India, without giving any more details.
 The recent media publication demonstrate that they have only
 recently made endeavours to use the 'TESLA' Marks in India.
 6.9. Further, the Plaintiff is not the registered proprietor of the word
 mark 'TESLA' in Class 09. Other purported registrations for the

 device mark in Class 09 and for the T Logo in
 Class 09 were filed by the Plaintiff on "proposed to be used" basis
 and for "Solar energy equipment, namely, photo-voltaic solar
 modules in the shape of panels or roofing tiles for converting
 electromagnetic radiation into electrical energy: equipment for use
 in connection with collecting and converting solar energy into
 electricity, namely, inverters" which are different from those of the
 Defendants. 6.10. Therefore, this is not a case where the Defendants were motivated
 by the Plaintiff's use of the 'TESLA' Marks, when the Defendants
 adopted the word 'TESLA' in the year 2020 for selling their
 products. 6.11. Prior to the filing of the Commercial Suit, the Defendants'
 commenced marketing and sale of electric-scooters under the third-
 party brand 'e-ashwa', through the franchise stores operated by the
 franchisees of the Defendants and also planned on launching
 electric charging stations. However, on 02.05.2024, Defendant
 No.3 voluntarily and in the bona fide attempt to resolve the disputes
 with the Plaintiff, gave an undertaking before this Court that the
 Defendants have no intention to manufacture EVs at all and will Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 20 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 not market other entities' EVs under the Defendants' Marks.
 Defendant No. 3 has also filed a compliance affidavit dated
 29.05.2024 providing details of the e-scooters sold by the
 Defendants, as well as the current stocks that were available with
 them as on the date of the undertaking. The Defendants have been
 complying with the undertaking till date. In fact, the Commercial
 Suit can even be decreed in terms of this undertaking.
 6.12. The Plaintiff has no rights in the word 'TESLA', being the surname
 of Mr. Nikola Tesla. The Plaintiff's founder Mr. Elon Musk has in
 interviews admitted to the Plaintiff adopting the mark 'TESLA'
 being inspired by the works of Mr. Nikola Tesla. Thus, admittedly,
 the Plaintiff has not coined the mark 'TESLA' for its business
 activities and is not distinctive of their goods and services.
 6.13. The Plaintiff was initially founded by Martin Eberhard and Marc
 Tarpenning in the year 2003. Mr. Elon Musk took over the Plaintiff
 company in 2008. The previous owners of the Plaintiff company
 have also said in interviews that the word 'TESLA' was adopted
 by them as a trade name inspired by the legacy of Mr. Nikola Tesla.
 6.14. The Plaintiff is not the first adopter, user or registered proprietor of
 the mark TESLA in India or worldwide. The mark 'TESLA' has
 been used and registered for over 75 years by several parties prior
 to the Plaintiff. On an illustrative basis, there is a third-party trade
 mark registration no. 140191 dated 26.08.1949 for 'TESLA'
 (device) and a trade mark registration no. 689081 dated 04.12.1995
 for the 'TESLA' (device) with user claim of 04.12.1973. Similarly,
 on an illustrative basis, there is a third-party trade mark registration Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 21 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 no. 73595296 dated 25.04.1986 for 'TESLA' (word) in the United
 States of America. 6.15. Further, several entities around the world, including in India, have
 adopted, commenced use and registered the mark 'TESLA', even
 after the alleged claim of first use of the 'TESLA' Mark by the
 Plaintiff. Further, the Defendants are prior user of the mark
 'TESLA' for lead acid batteries falling in Class 09.
 6.16. In addition to the aforesaid, a third party, namely, Nvidia
 Corporation, who is a registered proprietor for the mark 'TESLA'
 (word) in the United States of America has also got the mark
 'TESLA' (word) registered in India bearing registration no.
 1680147 in Class 09, through the same counsels, as that of the
 Plaintiff. 6.17. Thus, the Plaintiff cannot claim any exclusive proprietary rights
 over the mark 'TESLA'. The Plaintiff has not coined the mark
 'TESLA' and is also a subsequent adopter and user of the mark
 'TESLA', having co-existed with several other parties and marks
 worldwide, including in India. Existence of a number of Tesla
 themed marks, creates a 'crowded market' and affects the
 distinctive character of the Marks and reduced the risk of
 confusion. In other words, in a crowded market it is harder for one
 mark to stand out. Thus, there is no likelihood of confusion or
 association. In this regard, reference may be made to the following
 case laws: continent which consists of eight countries. The Plaintiff has not
 given details of business turnover from the Indian market, nor have
 they given any account of promotional expenses incurred towards
 marketing endeavours directed towards the Indian market. Thus, Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 23 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 the Plaintiff's pleadings and the data do not reveal any use of the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks in India. The Plaintiff has also not filed any
 material to show that their alleged reputation outside India, has
 travelled to India. 6.21. For this reason, it must be held that the Plaintiff's Trade Marks have
 not acquired any secondary meaning in India and that the Plaintiff
 has not shown that their alleged reputation outside India, has
 travelled to India. In this regard, reference may be made to the
 following case laws: Plaintiff's goods in Class 09 under its Defendants Goods in Class 09
 registration no. 3332559 for the mark

 " " and 3702930 " " photo-voltaic solar modules in the
 shape of panels or roofing tiles for
 converting electromagnetic radiation
 into electrical energy: equipment for
 use in connection with collecting and
 converting solar energy into
 electricity, namely, inverters" 7. The learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff had made the rejoinder
 submissions as under: Admittedly, the Defendants offer batteries (Lead Acid Batteries) for
 two wheelers, four wheelers (automative), UPS and inverter. The
 Defendants claim to provide batteries on a lease model for energy
 storage, which is directly hit by the Plaintiff's registration, inter
 alia, for leasing service for electric battery system, which was also
 covered in its Trade Mark Application in the USA. The Defendants'
 application in Turkey covered automative batteries. Admittedly, the
 Defendants were marketing and selling EVs bearing the Impugned
 Trade Marks, which was advertised on its website as 'TESLA EV'.
 The Plaintiff's registrations cover invertor and batteries and the
 Plaintiff has shown extensive use of the batteries.
 7.3. The Plaintiff's all registrations are much prior to the Defendants
 alleged adoption and first use of the mark 'TESLA'. As per Section
 31 of the Act, the Plaintiff's registrations are prima facie evidence
 of validity with no challenge to the said registrations. In view of the
 same, a clear case of infringement by the Defendants is made out.
 7.4. The Defendants' argument that the Plaintiff did not coin the Mark
 'TESLA' and there are third party registrations of the mark Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 29 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 'TESLA' owing to crowded marketplace and 'TESLA' being
 common to trade, the Plaintiff cannot claim monopoly over the
 same is misconceived. The Defendants submit that the word
 'TESLA' is inspired by Mr. Nikola Tesla, however, such inspiration
 does not mitigate the distinctive and well-known character of the
 Mark 'TESLA' as a result of the Plaintiff's extensive and
 continuous use worldwide since its adoption in 2003.
 7.5. As regards the argument that other third-party entities are using the
 Mark 'TESLA' and the same being common to trade is not available
 to the Defendants as the Defendants themselves have applied for

 the registration of the Mark 'TESLA POWER' and ' ', the
 Defendants are not allowed to approbate and reprobate. The use of
 the Mark 'TESLA' by third-party entities as cited by the Defendants
 are either not in use, such entities are liquidated or such use is
 subsequent to the Plaintiff. Mere presence of third-party entities or
 marks on the register is not sufficient as third-party use is no
 defense in an infringement action. The Defendants have failed to
 show that such alleged third-party use of the Mark 'TESLA' is
 common to trade or is substantial. The Defendants have failed to
 deal with the judgments cited by the Plaintiff in support of this
 submission. 7.6. The Defendants have failed to show how the facts of the present
 case are applicable to any other third-party entity as there is no use
 of the Mark 'TESLA' in relation to automobiles or batteries in
 India. 7.7. Further, the Defendants' argument that the Plaintiff has no
 commercial use of the Mark 'TESLA' is patently wrong and
 contrary to the voluminous documents placed on record. The
 Plaintiff has shown direct use of the Mark 'TESLA' on goods being
 physically present in India since 2010, which has also been pleaded
 in this Suit and sufficient documents are placed to show the
 Plaintiff's reputation and goodwill in India including the decision
 of the learned Registrar of Trade Marks holding that the Plaintiff
 has overwhelming worldwide reputation. 7.8. The Defendants' argument about suppression of the stand taken by
 the Plaintiff before the Trade Mark Registry is misconceived as
 none of the cited marks containing the mark 'TESLA' in the
 examination reports are used for batteries or electric vehicles in
 India. The Defendants have failed to show even a single third party
 using the Mark 'TESLA' in relation to automobiles and batteries.
 The Defendants' reliance on registration of Mark 'TESLA' in Class
 09 by NVIDIA Corporation bearing No. 1680147 dated 24.04.2008
 is not relevant as the said registration is for computer hardware,
 integrated circuits, semiconductors, computer chip sets,
 microprocessor, computer software, etc. None of the said goods are
 in conflict with the Plaintiff's goods and services. In any event, the
 application for the said registration was filed subsequent to the
 Plaintiff's adoption of the mark 'TESLA' in 2003. The Plaintiff's
 stand before the Trade Mark Registry would be relevant only if the
 Defendants' mark was cited and a contrary stand was taken by the
 Plaintiff, which is not the case. In Under Armour, INC v. Aditya Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 31 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Birla Fashion & Retail Ltd. , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 2269, it was
 held that: 7.9. The Defendants have themselves taken contrary stands, which the
 Defendants have failed to refer. Defendant No. 3, while seeking
 registration of the word Mark 'TESLA POWER' bearing No.
 4855017 in Class 09. The Defendants in response to the cited mark
 of 'TESLA' registered by NVIDIA Corporation submitted that the
 Mark 'TESLA POWER' was highly distinctive and easily
 distinguishable from the cited mark. Various conflicting marks
 were cited in the application filed by Defendant No. 3 seeking

 registration of the Device Mark ' ', bearing No. 4855802
 in Class 09 and the Plaintiff also filed a rectification against the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 32 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 registration of the Device Mark, ' ' and the Defendant has
 concealed this fact and the Trade Marks Registry has refused to

 register the Device Mark, ' ' citing that the Device Mark
 applied for is phonetically and structurally similar to earlier Trade
 Mark 'TESLA' filed on 26.08.1949 in Class 09. 7.10. As soon as the Plaintiff became aware of the infringing activities of
 the Defendants in April, 2022, the Plaintiff immediately issued a
 C&D Notice on 18.04.2022 and the correspondence between the
 Parties went from April, 2022 until 02.03.2023. After that the
 Defendants started expanding the use of the Impugned Trade Marks
 and issued full page advertisements in national newspapers in
 March, 2023 and the Plaintiff learned that the Defendants started
 advertising electric scooters on their websites in January, 2024.
 7.11. It is trite law that delay in filing cases of infringement and passing
 off of trade marks is not a ground for refusal of interim injunction. In the judgments of Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. and
 Another v. Sudhir Bhatia and Others , 2004 SCC OnLine SC 106
 and Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Lts. V. India Stationery Products,
 1989 SCC OnLine Del 34, it was held that delay in filing a suit is
 not a ground to deny injunction, when the adoption is in itself
 dishonest. 7.12. Defendant No. 1 has wrongly obtained a copyright registration for

 the Impugned Trade Mark ' ' bearing No. A- 145625/2023. The Search Certificate issued by the Trade Marks
 Registry has wrongly stated that the artistic work applied for is not
 conflicting with any other mark, which has been registered or
 applied for under the Act as per the computer records of the office.
 7.13. In the Reply to the injunction application, Defendant No. 1 claimed
 that Defendant No. 4 envisioned establishing a business model
 based on "the energy storage on leased assets" the short form of
 which is TESLA and that is how the Defendants came up with the
 Impugned Trade Marks. However, in the Reply filed by Defendant
 No. 3, he claimed that he had coined the Impugned Trade Marks.
 7.14. The Impugned Trade Marks and the Impugned Domain Names
 encompass TESLA in a prominent manner and, therefore, the
 Impugned Trade Marks are identical to the Plaintiff's Trade Mark
 'TESLA'. Both the Plaintiff and the Defendants deal in identical
 goods and services and the Plaintiff has been able to establish
 several instances where the use of the Impugned Trade Marks has
 led to confusion in the minds of the public. Further, the Impugned
 Domain Names falsely show that the Defendants deal in a wide
 variety of goods and services, however, admittedly, the Defendants
 offer for sale batteries for two wheelers, four wheelers, UPS and
 inverters. The Plaintiff has obtained registrations which cover
 inverters and batteries and the Plaintiff has shown extensive use of
 the Plaintiff's Trade Marks with respect to batteries. 7.15. The addition of descriptive words, such as 'POWER' and 'USA' to
 'TESLA' in the Impugned Trade Marks when 'TESLA' is the
 dominant part of the Impugned Trade Marks, does not help the case
 of the Defendants. The Impugned Trade Marks subsumes the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks in their entirety. The term POWER is
 descriptive to the goods and services of the Defendants and is
 incapable of distinguishing the Impugned Trade Marks from the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks. 7.16. Although the Defendants have never operated nor do they have a
 client base in the USA, the Defendants use the Trade Name
 'TESLA POWER USA', which is deceptive and with an intention
 to mislead the customers into believing that the technology that the
 Defendants are using originated in the USA. The Defendants have
 also sought registration of the Impugned Trade Marks in the USA,
 Turkey and Hungary, which have been rejected on the basis of the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks. 7.17. After filing of the present Suit, the Plaintiff came across a consumer
 complaint and a related FIR against the Defendants, which states
 that Defendant No. 2 contacted the complainant in November, 2022
 purporting to be the Plaintiff's subsidiary. Believing this, the
 complainant transferred approximately ₹9,20,000/- to the
 Defendants. Further, the Defendants have not been able to refute
 the instances of actual confusion caused in the minds of the media
 or the complaints received by the Plaintiff, which were actually
 against the Defendants. 7.18. While the Defendants claim that they only intend to use the
 Impugned Trade Marks with respect to Lead Acid Batteries, the
 manner in which the Defendants have expanded their use of the
 Impugned Trade Marks is critical. The first use of the Impugned
 Trade Marks was with respect to Lead Acid Batteries only and even
 in the stand taken before the Trade Marks Registry in response to
 the examination report, the Defendants stated that they would only
 use the Impugned Trade Marks with respect to Lead Acid Batteries,
 however, the Defendants started advertising EVs under the
 Impugned Trade Marks in national newspapers in March, 2023.
 Further, the Defendants also advertised EVs on the Impugned
 Domain Names and despite the undertaking given before this Court
 on 02.05.2024 stating that the Defendants will not use the
 Impugned Trade Marks with respect to EVs, they have continued
 to do so. 8. The learned Senior Counsel for the Defendants had made the sur-rejoinder
 submissions as under: The Defendants have given the undertaking that they will only use
 the Impugned Trade Marks with respect to Lead Acid Batteries
 before this Court on 02.05.2025 and 08.09.2025 and the
 Defendants as per the undertakings have not entered into the EV
 space and, therefore, the claim of the Plaintiff that the Defendants
 have taken contrary stands before the Trade Marks Registry, is not
 substantiated. 8.7. The Plaintiff has falsely claimed that the registration of the Device

 Mark ' ' in Class 12 covers structural automobile parts
 and, therefore, the Defendants dealing in batteries shall be
 restrained as batteries are considered to be structural automobile
 parts under Class 12. Batteries do not constitute structural part of
 an automobile and, therefore, are not covered under structural
 automobile parts covered under Class 12. Further, the Plaintiff has
 falsely claimed that the Plaintiff's registration for the Plaintiff's
 Trade Marks in Class 09 covers invertors, which are identical to the
 Defendants' Lead Acid Batteries. Upon a perusal of the Plaintiff's
 Application in Class 09, it is apparent that the Plaintiff has applied
 for equipment which can transform solar energy into electrical
 energy including solar invertors and therefore there is no
 relationship between the Plaintiff's product under Class 09 and the
 Defendant's goods and services. 8.8. The Plaintiff has falsely claimed that the Mark 'TESLA' is not
 common to trade and the Defendants have provided an exhaustive
 list of third parties using the Word and Device Mark. This Court in Vikrant Chemico Industries v. Gopal Engineering ,
 2025:DHC:757 held that the existence of third-party Trade Mark
 Applications and Registration in various Classes is sufficient
 evidence to establish that the Mark is common to trade.
 8.9. The submission of the Plaintiff that the Defendants have not
 justified the use of the words 'USA' and 'American Technology' is
 not correct. The Defendants have clearly answered that the
 Defendants started their business in the USA with an American Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 39 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Partner and further the Defendants' battery rejuvenation technology
 is imported from the USA. Thus, the Defendants used the terms
 'USA' and 'American Technology' to pay homage to the place
 where the Defendants owe their livelihood. The Plaintiff has
 further falsely claimed that the claim of Defendant No. 3 that the
 Impugned Trade Marks were adopted after being inspired by Mr.
 Nikola Tesla is an afterthought whereas Defendant No. 3 has
 always been vocal about being inspired by Mr. Nikola Tesla.
 8.10. A comparison of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks and the Impugned
 Trade Marks clearly show that the competing Marks are visually,
 structurally and phonetically dissimilar. Further, electric battery
 system is completely different from Lead Acid Batteries and have
 completely distinct trade channels and customers.
 8.11. The Plaintiff has relied upon the FIRs and consumer complaints
 against the Defendants, however, those complaints filed against the
 Defendants were contractual disputes and have been subsequently
 closed by the competent authorities, whereas there are multiple
 complaints against the Plaintiff even in their home country i.e., the
 USA showcasing that the Plaintiff does not have a good reputation
 even in their home country. ANALYSIS AND CONCLUSION: 9. A Trade Mark indicates the source of the goods or services, in respect
 of which it is used. A Trade Mark is an indicator of origin, distinguishing the
 goods and services of a party from those of its competitors. Thus, a Trade Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 40 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Mark is said to possess a distinctive character, when it serves to identify and
 distinguish the goods or services of a party from those of others.
 Infringement of Plaintiff's Trade Marks: 10. The Plaintiff is one of the biggest manufacturers of EVs. The
 Defendants are producing batteries for Electrical two-wheeler and electric
 four-wheeler among other batteries. The Plaintiff is also dealing in batteries
 and battery technologies with various implications. 11. The Plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks
 with the earliest registration for the Mark 'TESLA' in India in the year 2013.
 The Plaintiff has been using the Mark 'TESLA' continuously since the year
 2003 with respect to EVs and Batteries. The Plaintiff has obtained registration
 for the word Mark 'TESLA' in Classes 12 and 37 for automobiles and
 structural parts thereof as well as for providing maintenance and repair
 services for automobiles. 12. The registration of the Device Mark ' ' by the Plaintiff in
 Class 12 covers structural automobile parts. The Plaintiff's registration for the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks in Class 09 covers Invertors. The Defendants are
 using the Impugned Trade Marks for products falling in Class 09, such as
 Lead Acid Batteries for two-wheelers, four wheelers, trucks, Inverters, UPS,
 water purifiers/ filters etc. and for services for battery rejuvenation. The
 Defendants have argued that the Plaintiff is not the registered proprietor of the
 word mark 'TESLA' in Class 09. The registrations for the device mark

 and for the T Logo in Class 09 were filed by the Plaintiff
 on "proposed to be used" basis for "Solar energy equipment, namely, photo-
 voltaic solar modules in the shape of panels or roofing tiles for converting
 electromagnetic radiation into electrical energy: equipment for use in Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 41 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 connection with collecting and converting solar energy into electricity,
 namely, "inverters", which are different from those of the Defendants, Having
 successfully obtained registrations for the Plaintiff's Trade Marks, the
 Plaintiff is entitled to protection being the registered proprietor thereof. 13. As the Plaintiff's Trade Marks are validly subsisting on the Register of
 Trade Marks, the Defendant cannot contend that the Plaintiff does not have
 the right to protect the proprietary rights in the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. As
 Batteries are structural automobile parts for EVs under Class 12, the
 Defendants' Products of Lead Acid Batteries for two-wheelers, four wheelers,
 trucks, Inverters are UPS are allied and cognate goods as the Battery is even
 a more essential part of EVs as compared to petrol or diesel cars. In modern
 EVs, the battery pack is increasingly considered a structural automobile part.
 As the Plaintiff's registration for the Plaintiff's Trade Marks in Class 09
 covers Invertors, Defendants' use of the Impugned Trade Marks for Inverters
 is clearly an infringement. 14. Hence, Defendants submissions that the Plaintiff has admittedly not
 sold any products under their 'TESLA' Marks in India or abroad that are
 similar to the products sold by the Defendants under the Impugned Trade
 Marks is not relevant. Accordingly, the Defendants have infringed the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks. Goodwill and Reputation: 15. The Plaintiff has demonstrated the goodwill and reputation acquired by
 the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. The Plaintiff has earned significant revenue of
 $98.6 billion for the year 2023 by selling the Plaintiff's goods and services
 under the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. The Plaintiff is promoting the Plaintiff's
 Trade Marks through the Plaintiff's website, which is accessible in India and Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 42 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 generates huge traffic. The Plaintiff's goods and services under the Plaintiff's
 Trade Marks have received coverage from leading national newspapers in
 India and the popularity of the CEO of the Plaintiff also cannot be doubted.
 There is evidence to show the goodwill of the Plaintiff. 16. It is implausible that the Defendants were not aware of the Plaintiff and
 the Plaintiff's Marks considering the overwhelming goodwill of the Plaintiff.
 Accordingly, the use of the Impugned Trade Marks, is prima facie dishonest
 and appears to be an attempt to ride on the goodwill and reputation of the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks. 17. In any event, when the Plaintiff's Trade Mark " " bearing no.
 3702930 was cited in February 2021 against the Application for TESLA

 POWER USA " " bearing 4855802. In response, Defendant No. 3
 stated that "two marks deal with separate consumer base in separate markets,
 and therefore there is no likelihood of confusion". It was further stated by

 Defendant No. 3 that the Impugned Trade Mark " " TESLA
 POWER USA is "completely unique and different from any existing
 trademark in the same class and all the goods in a class is not 'cognate' or
 'allied'." This makes it clear that that the Defendants were aware about the
 Plaintiff's Trade Mark since February 2021. 18. Further, despite the Defendants having no client base in the USA, have
 dishonestly adopted 'TESLA POWER USA', which is deceptive and appears
 to be with an intention to mislead the customers into believing that the
 technology that the Defendants are using originated in the USA and that the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 43 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Defendants are connected with the Plaintiff, which is based in the USA. The
 Defendants' applications for registration of the Impugned Trade Marks in the
 USA, Turkey and Hungary have been rejected on the basis of the Plaintiff's
 Trade Marks, which clearly shows that the Defendants have dishonestly
 adopted the Impugned Trade Marks to ride on the goodwill and reputation of
 the Plaintiff in India. Likelihood of Confusion: 19. The likelihood of confusion amongst the minds of the consumers is
 very high given the allied and cognate nature of goods. Use of the Impugned
 Trade Marks by the Defendants are likely to cause confusion that the
 Defendants are connected with the Plaintiff as the Mark 'TESLA' is identical. 20. It is trite law that mere likelihood of confusion is enough to establish a
 case of infringement of Trade Marks and actual confusion is not required to
 be demonstrated. However, the Plaintiff has even been able to show the
 instances of actual confusion caused in the minds of not only ordinary
 consumers, but even reputed media houses have published news believing that
 the Defendants were in fact related to the Plaintiff. 21. Further, the test of confusion is to be seen from the perspective of an
 average person with imperfect recollection getting confused and in view of
 the Plaintiff's Trade Marks and the Impugned Trade Marks being almost
 identical, any ordinary person would get confused and would not be able to
 distinguish between the Plaintiff's Trade Marks and the Impugned Trade
 Marks. Addition of descriptive terms like 'USA' and 'POWER' are not
 enough to distinguish the goods and services of the Defendants from those of
 the Plaintiff. A consumer of average intelligence and imperfect recollection
 would be unable to distinguish between the competing products. The Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 44 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 substantial similarity in the competing Trade Marks coupled with the confined
 branding space, significantly increases the risk of confusion in the minds of
 the public. 22. This Court in Under Armour Inc v. Anish Agarwal, 2025 SCC OnLine
 Del 3784, held that the initial interest confusion test proceeds on the principle
 that confusion in the minds of consumers may arise at the preliminary stage,
 prior to the actual purchase being completed. At the point of finalising the
 transaction, the consumer may no longer be in doubt as to the true origin of
 the goods or services. Nonetheless, even such transient confusion at the initial
 stage is sufficient to meet the requirement of deceptive similarity under Section 29 of the Act. 23. The infringer's objective may be served merely by diverting the
 consumer's initial attention. The consumer may, thereafter, consciously opt
 for the infringer's product on account of its own characteristics, with complete
 knowledge that it is unconnected with the registered Trade Mark. The
 Defendants' use of the Impugned Trade Marks appears to be with intent of
 causing confusion in the mind of the customers to increase the revenue of the
 Defendants by deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's Trade Marks.
 Passing Off: 24. The Plaintiff has made a prima facie case of passing off as they have
 shown substantial goodwill for the goods and services under the Plaintiff's
 Trade Marks through the revenue earned by the Plaintiff and the coverage
 received by the Plaintiff in various newspapers and magazines across the
 globe and in India. As the Plaintiff has been able to demonstrate actual
 instances of confusion, the Plaintiff is likely to suffer loss of reputation, if the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 45 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 goods and services of the Defendants are allowed to pass off as those of the
 Plaintiff. Delay in filing Suit: 25. The Defendants have argued that admittedly, the Plaintiff was aware
 about the Defendants' existence since the year 2022, but has only filed the
 present Suit in 2024 only after the Defendants entered into the EV space and
 the Plaintiff did not have any objection to the Defendants dealing with Lead
 Acid Batteries. 26. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff has relied upon Midas Hygiene (supra) and Hindustan Pencils (supra) to submit that delay in filing a suit is
 not a ground to deny injunction, when the adoption is in itself dishonest. In
 cases of infringement of Trade Mark an injunction must follow and merely
 delay, if any, in seeking the remedy of injunction cannot be a ground to deny
 injunction to the Plaintiff. 27. Hence, delay in filing the Suit cannot be a ground to deny the interim
 injunction. Contradictory Reasons for adoption of Impugned Trade Marks by
 Defendants: 28. The Defendants have taken contrary stands with respect to reason for
 adoption of the Impugned Trade Marks. Defendant No. 3 claims to have been
 inspired by Mr. Nikola Tesla as the reason behind the adoption of the
 Impugned Trade Marks. Whereas the Defendants in the Reply to the C&D
 notice stated that the reason behind adoption of the Impugned Trade Marks
 was that the Mark 'TESLA' is the acronym of the business model based on
 "THE ENERGY STORAGE on Leased ASSETS". The adoption of the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 46 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Impugned Trade Marks appears to be dishonest with an intention to ride on
 the goodwill of the Plaintiff given its reputation and goodwill. 29. Hence, the justification given by the Defendants for adopting the
 Impugned Trade Marks does not inspire confidence and prima facie, the
 adoption appears to be dishonest with intent to benefit from the goodwill and
 reputation of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks. Generic and Common to Trade: 30. It is contended on behalf of the Defendants that 'TESLA' is a generic
 word and common to trade and is inspired by Mr. Nikola Tesla and no person
 can be allowed to monopolise the surname of Mr. Nikola Tesla. This
 submission is contrary to the stand taken by the Defendants in the Trade Mark
 Applications filed by the Defendants. The Defendants themselves have
 applied for registrations of the Marks bearing the word 'TESLA'. 31. The use of the Mark 'TESLA' being common to trade is not available
 to the Defendants as the Defendants themselves have applied for the
 registration of the Impugned Trade Marks. The Defendants are not allowed to
 approbate and reprobate and take contrary stands as held in Automatic
 Electric Limited (supra), Mohd. Shakir (supra), Anchor Health and Beauty (supra) and PEPS Industries (supra). 32. Having sought registration over the Impugned Trade Marks, the
 Defendants cannot claim that the Mark 'TESLA' is common to trade. The
 decisions in Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club (supra), Rhizome
 Distilleries (supra), Skyline Education Institute (India ) (supra), Neon
 Labotories Ltd. (supra) and Vans Inc. Usa (supra) relied upon by the
 Defendants are distinguishable on facts as the Plaintiff's Trade Marks have
 amassed considerable goodwill and are neither descriptive, nor generic. The Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 47 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 Mark 'TESLA' with respect to EVs and battery segment is linked exclusively
 with the Plaintiff and is not common to trade. Third-party Use: 33. The Defendants have argued that a third party, namely, Nvidia
 Corporation is also a registered proprietor for the mark 'TESLA' (word) in
 the United States of America has also got the mark 'TESLA' (word) registered
 in India bearing registration no. 1680147 in Class 09, through the same
 counsels, as that of the Plaintiff. Thus, the Plaintiff cannot claim any exclusive
 proprietary rights over the mark 'TESLA' as the Plaintiff has neither coined
 the mark 'TESLA' nor is a prior adopter and user of the mark 'TESLA'. The
 Plaintiff has co-existed with several other parties and marks worldwide,
 including in India. Existence of a number of Tesla themed marks, creates a
 'crowded market' and affects the distinctive character of the Marks and
 reduced the risk of confusion. 34. The above argument of the Defendant is misconceived as none of the
 cited marks containing the Mark 'TESLA' are used for batteries or EVs in
 India. The Defendants have failed to show how the facts of the present case
 are applicable to any other third-party entity as there is no use of the Mark
 'TESLA' in relation to automobiles or batteries in India. The Defendants'
 reliance on registration of Mark 'TESLA' in Class 9 by NVIDIA Corporation
 bearing No. 1680147 dated 24.04.2008 is not relevant as the said registration
 is for computer hardware, integrated circuits, semiconductors, computer chip
 sets, microprocessor, computer software, etc. None of the said goods are in
 conflict with the Plaintiff's goods and services and the application for the said
 registration was filed subsequent to the Plaintiff's adoption of the mark
 'TESLA' in 2003. 35. In any event, the Plaintiff is not expected to sue every small infringer
 and use of Marks, deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's Marks, by third-parties
 is not a valid defence against infringement of Trade Marks as has been held
 by this Court in Pankaj Goel (supra), Corn Products Refining (supra) and
 National Bell Co. (supra). Prominent Feature Test: 36. The prominent feature of the Impugned Trade Marks is 'TESLA',
 which is identical to the Mark 'TESLA' being used by the Plaintiff since 2003.
 Applying the dominant feature test to the present case, the dominant feature
 of the Impugned Trade Marks 'TESLA POWER' and 'TESLA POWER
 USA' is clearly the prefix 'TESLA', as the suffix in each Mark 'POWER' and
 'USA' are descriptive terms. 37. The dominant feature of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks and the Impugned
 Trade Marks, i.e. 'TESLA', is identical. Applying the dominant feature test,
 a prima facie case of infringement is made out. Non-Use of Plaintiff's Trade Marks: 38. The Defendants submitted that the Plaintiff has not used the 'TESLA'
 Marks in India, except a few third-party media releases and a handful of
 imports of their goods. However, there is merit in the Plaintiff's case that the
 Plaintiff has used the 'TESLA' Marks abroad, because of which the 'TESLA'
 Marks have acquired secondary meaning even in India. 39. The Plaintiff has overwhelming goodwill in the Plaintiff's Trade Marks
 and the reputation of the Plaintiff has travelled to India as well. Trans-border
 reputation of the Plaintiff must be considered as well. As held by the Supreme
 Court in Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha (supra) a Trade Mark registered
 outside India can have a reputation and be protected in India even if the goods Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 49 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 and services are not sold there. The decisions of Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki
 Kaisha (supra), Columbia Sportswear Company (supra), Trustees of
 Princeton University (supra) and Century 21 Real Estate LLC (supra) do not
 help the case of the Defendants as the Plaintiff has been able to establish trans-
 border reputation and goodwill obtained by the Plaintiff's Trade Marks in
 India. 40. The Plaintiff has demonstrated material to show that their reputation
 outside India, has travelled to India. The Plaintiff has been able to demonstrate
 actual use of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks in India since 2010 and not just
 experimental and intermittent use of the Plaintiff's Trade Marks, and,
 therefore, the decisions of Trustees of Princeton University (supra) and Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha (supra) does not help the case of the
 Defendants. The Plaintiff is entitled to protection based on actual use of the
 Plaintiff's Trade Marks in India coupled with the enormous trans-border
 reputation of the Plaintiff and the products under the Plaintiff's Trade Marks
 having acquired secondary meaning in India. 41. Accordingly, the Defendants' submission that the Plaintiff admittedly
 has not commenced using their 'TESLA' Marks for selling their products in
 India on the date of filing of the Suit and only recently made endeavours to
 use the 'TESLA' Marks in India is without any merit.
 Conclusion: 42. Having considered the submissions advanced by the learned Counsel
 for the Parties, the pleadings and the documents on record, a strong prima
 facie case has been made out on behalf of the Plaintiff for grant of an interim
 injunction. 43. The Plaintiff has established its prior user as well as goodwill and
 reputation, on the basis of the documents on record. Injunction is a relief in
 equity, and in view of the aforesaid discussion, the same is in favour of the
 Plaintiff and against the Defendants. Further, the balance of convenience also
 lies in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendants and grave prejudice
 is likely to be caused to the Plaintiff if interim injunction as prayed for is not
 granted in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendants. 44. This is a case of triple identity where the Plaintiff's Trade Marks and
 the Impugned Trade Marks are identical, the product category is identical and
 the trade channel as also the consumer base is identical. The identity in the
 Impugned Trade Marks is so close to the Plaintiff's Trade Marks that they are
 indistinguishable. 45. Accordingly, the present Application is allowed and it is directed that
 the statement made by Defendant No. 3 on behalf of the Defendants on
 02.05.2024 that the Defendants have no intention to manufacture EVs at all
 and will not market other entities' EVs as well under the Impugned Trade

 Marks, 'TESLA POWER' / 'TESLA POWER USA', ' ' and '

 ' and the Trade Name 'TESLA POWER USA' and or any other
 brand deceptively similar or use the word 'TESLA', further, they will not
 issue any promotional advertisements or material in relation to EV vehicles
 under the Trade Name 'TESLA' and the Defendants shall not use the
 registered device/logos of 'TESLA' shall continue till the final disposal of the
 Suit. 46. The above statement shall also apply to using, soliciting, providing
 services, advertising in any manner, including on the internet and e-commerce Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 51 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49 platform, directly or indirectly, selling or dealing in Lead Acid Batteries for
 all kind of Automobiles, Inverters and UPS. 47. With the aforesaid directions, the present Application stands disposed
 of. CS(COMM) 353/2024 48. List before the Joint Registrar (Judicial) on 15.01.2026 for competition
 of pleadings, Admission / Denial of documents and marking of Exhibits. TEJAS KARIA, J
 NOVEMBER 24, 2025
 'AK' Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 353/2024 Page 52 of 52 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:26.11.2025 19:14:49