1. The petitioner seeks grant of regular bail in respect of a case registered

 against him vide FIR No. 228 dated 18.11.2020 at Police Station Ding,

 District Sirsa under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471/120-B IPC, wherein offence

 under Section 66-D of Information Technology Act, 2008 was added later

 on. 2. The FIR in question was lodged at the instance of ASI Tarsem Singh,

 wherein it is alleged that on 18.11.2020 when he alongwith other police

 officials were patrolling at Bus Stand Ding, then a secret informer informed

 that Ramesh Kumar Son of Rameshwar, Vinod Kumar Son of Rajbir,

 Subhash Chander Son of Mahender Singh and Rajesh Kumar Son of Ram

 Singh alongwith other companions used to purchase activated SIMs of

 different companies on the basis of forged documents in huge numbers and

 used to insert the same in different mobiles phones and laptops and caused

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:29:00 ::: 2 CRM-M-6191-2021 (O&M)

financial losses to various companies in an illegal manner. The information

was further to the effect that the said persons had built an office near

Railway Line, Ding under the name and style of M/s S.S. Communication.

Pursuant to receipt of said information, a raid was conducted and upon

seeing the police party four persons standing outside the office of M/s S.S.

Communication tried to flee away with black coloured polythene bags

carried by them in their hands but they were apprehended by the police

party. The apprehended persons disclosed their names as Ramesh Kumar,

Vinod Kumar, Subhash and Rajesh Kumar and the search led to recovery of

a Laptop from Ramesh Kumar and also mobile phones and a large number of

SIMs from each of them. From one of the accused as many as 141 SIMs

were recovered while from others 54, 55 and 20 SIMs were recovered. Upon

being questioned the said persons could not produce any document

pertaining to ownership of the recovered mobile phones or SIMs. It is

further the case of prosecution that during the course of interrogation all the

accused made disclosure statements including Ramesh Kumar. In his

disclosure statement, Ramesh Kumar disclosed that a scheme had been

floated by 'Dhani App' as per which upon deposit of `10,000/-, an amount

of `100/- was given as cashback/bonus and that one person could avail of

such scheme only twice a month. Ramesh Kumar stated that in order to avail

of said cashback/bonus, they made transactions through fake SIMs and fake

e-mail IDs and used to fleece the companies. He further disclosed that in

order to avoid detection of their identity they used to get the 'root' of the

mobile phones done, which was being got done through Vikramjit Singh

from his shop situated at Ding Road, District Sirsa. 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:29:00 ::: 3 CRM-M-6191-2021 (O&M) 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is

 nowhere named in the FIR and is sought to be nominated on the basis of a

 disclosure statement made by co-accused, the authenticity and veracity of

 which would be debatable. Learned counsel has further submitted that, in

 any case, even as per the said disclosure statement, the petitioner cannot be

 said to be the beneficiary of the amounts siphoned off from various

 companies and that he at best can be said to have provided technical

 assistance, which he had provided as a matter of his business as he was

 running a mobile accessories shop. Learned counsel has further submitted

 that, in any case, since the petitioner has been behind bars since the last

 about 1 year and that the petitioner is on interim bail and challan already

 stands presented, he deserves to be released on bail. 4. The learned State counsel, while opposing the petition, has submitted that

 since it is with the help of the petitioner that the co-accused were able to

 commit the fraud in question and to cause huge loss running in crores to

 various companies including Dhani App, Amazon, Facebook App, Paytm

 and Payzapp, his complicity in the entire scam is clearly evident and, as

 such, he does not deserve the concession of bail. Learned State counsel has

 further submitted that it was on account of the change of 'root' that the

 same mobile phone and SIM could be used several times for the purpose of

 availing the cashback/bonus by way of several sham transactions and that

 but for the technical assistance of the petitioner, the entire fraud could not

 have been committed. Learned State counsel has, however, informed that

 the petitioner as on date has been behind bars since the last about 1 year and

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:29:00 ::: 4 CRM-M-6191-2021 (O&M)

 that he stands involved in one more case. It has been informed that challan

 already stands presented and charges are yet to be framed. 5. I have considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. 6. It is not in dispute that the petitioner is not named in the FIR and that his

 name surfaced during the course of interrogation when co-accused disclosed

 the modus operandi of the fraud and stated that it was by way of 'rooting' of

 mobile phones that the fraud was committed and that the said 'routing' was

 being done by the petitioner. It will be debatable as to whether the petitioner

 was an actual beneficiary of the amount being siphoned off from various

 companies or as to whether he was only getting his professional fee for the

 purpose of 'routing'. In any case, since the petitioner has already been

 behind bars for the last about 1 year and challan already stands presented,

 further detention of the petitioner will not serve any useful purpose. 7. The petition, as such, is accepted and the interim bail granted to the

 petitioner vide order dated 27.5.2021 is hereby made absolute. 8. It is, however, clarified that none of the observations made above shall be

 taken to be an expression on merits of the main case.