CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE NAVNEET KUMAR ------ Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned A.P.P.
appearing on behalf of the State. 2. The petitioner is an accused in connection with Deoghar
(Cyber) P.S. Case No. 09 of 2024, registered under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(B) , 66(C) , 66(D) and 84 (C) of the Information & Technology Act, pending in the Court of
Learned Additional Sessions Judge-II-cum-Special Judge, Cyber Crime,
Deoghar. 3. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that as per the
allegation, petitioner was found involved in the commission of the
cybercrime with respect to the innocent person. The learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted that no person has been
cheated or forged by any act of this petitioner only it has come that he made
a call to some persons but after coming to know that it was a fraud call and
the same was disconnected which is mentioned in para 61 of the case diary.
Further, it has been pointed out that similarly situated co-accused persons,
namely, Ranjeet Das and Uttam Kumar have been enlarged on bail by this
Bench vide B.A. No.3610 of 2024 & 3621 of 2024 respectively and Bhim
Das has been enlarged on bail vide B.A. No.3622 of 2024 dated 02.08.2024
by the coordinate bench of this Court. It is submitted that this petitioner has
no criminal history and he is in jail since 10.02.2024 and charge-sheet in this
case has been submitted and therefore possibility of tampering the evidence
 is very remote and in this view of the matter, the petitioner deserves to be
enlarged on bail. 4. On the other hand, the learned A.P.P. appearing on behalf of the
State has opposed the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner and
submitted that from para 61 of the case diary, this petitioner has also
attempted to defraud the victim but somehow victim came to know that it
was a fraud call and therefore the victim disconnected the call but did not
controvert this fact that similarly situated co-accused persons namely,
Ranjeet Das, Uttam Kumar and Bhim Das have been enlarged on bail. 5. Having heard the parties, perused the records of this case. 6. In light of the forceful submission advanced on behalf of the
petitioner and under the facts and circumstances of this case, this petitioner
is directed to be enlarged on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.25,000/-
(Rupees Twenty-five thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to
the satisfaction of the Court of Learned Additional Sessions Judge-II-cum-
Special Judge, Cyber Crime, Deoghar, in connection with Deoghar (Cyber)
P.S. Case No. 09 of 2024, subject to the condition that the petitioner will
cooperate in the criminal proceeding pending in the learned Trial Court and
he will remain present on each and every date of the criminal trial as and
when required, failing which, appropriate order shall be passed by the
learned Court below for the cancellation of the bail as per the provision of
law. (Navneet Kumar, J.)
Basant/S. Das 2 B.A. No.3286 of 2024