1. Heard the learned counsel for the applicant and the learned APP for

 the State. 2. The incident happened on 20th February 2022. The complainant,

 her relatives, and Mangesh Raghunath Waghmare had been village

 Sangvi Bk., Taluka Pathardi Distt. Parbhani, for betrothal with Shraddha,

 the daughter of Popat Vitthal Katarnware. Before the betrothal began as

 per the custom, the girl was again shown to them. However, Mangesh

 stated that she is not the girl who was shown to him, with whom he agreed

 to marry. Therefore, he denied marrying the girl who was not shown to

 him. After that, all the accused forced Mangesh to marry a girl shown to

 him on that day. If he did not marry her, they would have to pay

 Rs.5,00,000/-. Thereafter, they refused to perform the betrothal and

 started going back. That time, all the accused obstructed their bus and

 took its key. Then the mother of the girl, namely Usha, her maternal aunt,

 maternal uncle Balu Sarse and her brother, entered the bus and pushed

 the mother of the complainant. The mother of the girl Usha, the present ::: Uploaded on - 05/07/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 30/12/2022 13:24:53 ::: 2 918-ABA-488-2022.odt
 applicant, snatched the cash of Rs.70,000/- and golden maniganthan. One

 co-accused, Vijay Deoraj Tijore put the knife on the neck of the brother of

 the complainant and demanded Rs.5,00,000/-. Under the fear, he paid him

 Rs. 40,000/-, and her other brother Dinesh paid Rs.30,000/- on his

 account on Google Pay. The Police were called there, but they were

 frightened. Hence, they did not lodge a report. 3. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the report is

 delayed. On the day of the alleged incident, the Police were called on the

 spot, but no incident as such happened; they did not lodge the report. The

 present report is afterthought. The amount of Rs.70,000/- was paid to the

 family of Mangesh to purchase golden ornaments for the betrothal

 ceremony. Hence the said amount was returned through Google Pay. That

 was paid. The Police came there, and the matter was settled. Hence, the

 custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary. 4. The learned APP would submit that on the day of the incident, the

 Police had been to the spot of the incident, but the report was not lodged.

 However, the complainant explained the delay satisfactorily, that they were

 in the village of the accused and the accused were most aggressive.

 Hence, they have no option except to save their lives. Therefore, they

 could not lodge the report. The allegations levelled against the applicant

 are true. The fraud has been played by the family of the applicants, who

 showed another girl instead of the girl shown to Mangesh before the

 betrothal. The amount of Rs.70,000/- and the golden ornaments the

 applicant snatched have to be recovered from the accused. Hence, the

 applicant has no case for anticipatory bail. 5. Perusal of the FIR and arguments advanced by the learned counsel ::: Uploaded on - 05/07/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 30/12/2022 13:24:53 ::: 3 918-ABA-488-2022.odt
 for the applicant and the learned APP for the State would reveal that the

 betrothal was cancelled as the other girl was shown by the parents of

 Shraddha. The report further reveals that the family of the applicant were

 most aggressive, and forcing Mangesh to marry another girl shown to him

 who was minor and not shown to him before the betrothal. Since the

 incident happened in the village of the applicant, which was far away from

 the residence of the complainant and her family, and considering the

 aggression of the family of the applicant, the possibility of fear cannot be

 ruled out. The complainant has satisfactorily explained why the report was

 not lodged immediately, though the Police were there. The serious

 allegations of snatching the amount from the purse and golden ornaments

 have been specifically levelled against the applicant. 6. Considering the gravity of the offence and the need to recover the

 money and golden ornaments, the custodial interrogation of the applicant

 is necessary. For these reasons, the applicant cannot be granted

 anticipatory bail. Hence, the application stands dismissed. 7. The learned counsel for the applicant would submit that the interim

 protection granted to the applicant may be extended for three weeks. In

 the interest of justice the interim protection order is continued for three

 weeks from today. [ S. G. MEHARE, J. ]

 mta ::: Uploaded on - 05/07/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 30/12/2022 13:24:53 :::