Digitally (Cause title taken from Case Information System)
signed by
VEDPRAKASH
DEWANGAN 2 For Applicants : Mr. Prasoon Agrawal, Advocate
 For Respondent/State : Dr. Saurabh Kumar Pande, Dy. A.G.

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Ravindra Kumar Agrawal
 C.A.V. Order 1. This is the first bail application filed by the applicants under Section 483

 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail to

 the applicants, who have been arrested on 07.08.2024 for the offence

 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 120-B of IPC, Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and Sections 4, 7, 8 and 11

 of the Chhattisgarh Gambling (Prohibition) Act, 2022 and Section 4A of

 Public Gambling Act, registered at Economic Offence Wing/Anti-

 Corruption Bureau, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, in Crime No. 6 of 2024. 2. The prosecution case in brief is that, an FIR of Crime No. 112/2022

 registered on 29.07.2022 at Police Station Mohan Nagar, Durg (C.G.)

 under Section 4A of the Public Gambling (C.G. Amendment) Act, 1976,

 which was registered against five accused persons, namely, Alok Singh

 Rajput, Rampravesh Sahu, Kharag @ Raja Singh, Abhishek and Pintu,

 under Section 4A of the Public Gambling (C.G. Amendment) Act, 1976

 and Section 420 , 120B of the IPC and also for Section 66D of

 Information Technology Act, 2000. The Enforcement Directorate had

 registered the Enforcement Case Information Report (hereinafter

 referred as 'ECIR') No. RPZ0/10/2022. On the secret information

 gathered by the officers of the ED, the raid was conducted on the

 premises of the accused persons in which it was found that a set with a 3 laptop and they were collecting money by creating online IDs and

through the said IDs they were placing bets for others through Mahadev

Book, on Online cricket matches, horse racing, greyhound racing,

kabaddi etc. Upon interrogation, the accused persons disclosed the

names of two persons namely Abhishek and Pintu who taught them to

procedure of creating the IDs and placing bets in various sports through

the Mahadev Book. Initially, treating the FIR No. 112/2022 of P.S. Mohan

Nagar, Durg and final report dated 29.07.2022 as scheduled/ predicate

offence, the respondent ED registered the ECIR No. RPZO/09/2022

which was renumbered as ECIR No. RPZ0/10/2022 vide corrigendum

dated 07.11.2022 issued by the ED. *******In the said ECIR, FIR No. 206/2023 dated 02.06.2023 registered

at P.S. Cyber Crime Vishakhapatnam Commissionerate, Andhra

Pradesh, FIR No. 37/2023 registered at P.S. Bhilai Bhatti, District Durg

(C.G.), FIR No. 86/2023 dated 27.02.2023 registered at P.S. Chhawani,

District Durg (C.G.), FIR No. 336/2023 dated 10.08.2023 registered at

P.S. Gudhiyari, District Raipur (C.G.), FIR No. 685/2023 dated

11.08.2023 registered at P.S. Khamtarai, District Raipur (C.G.), FIR No.

6/2024 dated 04.03.2024 registered at EOW, Raipur (C.G.) and FIR No.

206/2020 dated 24.09.2020 registered at P.S. Burtola, Kolkata, West

Bengal, have been included in the said ECIR. *******On 20.10.2023, the ED filed its first prosecution complaint against

14 accused persons, alleging that the online gambling app in the name

of Mahadev Online Book is established for illegal betting in different live

games like; poker, card games, chance games, betting on cricket, 4 badminton, tennis, football, etc. and also to provide facility for playing

several card games like; teen patti, dragon tiger, virtual cricket games

using cards, etc. It is also alleged that the Mahadev Online Book

advertised about these betting websites through closed WhatsApp

groups and Facebook pages. *******During the investigation conducted by the ED, it comes in the

investigation that the promoters of the Mahadev Online Book, namely

Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal, were running the said illegal

betting app through online mode and the tentacles of the online betting

app have been spread wide enough and the promoters created a system

of franchising the panels for illegal online betting app within the Indian

territory as well as at abroad. The betting app is operated by various

panel/branches, which are sold in a small franchise by the promoters

Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal through their associates. An

elaborate system to receive incoming money from the betting user and

also to pay them back as winning amount has been created in a well

planned manner. They created a system that the betting user cannot

directly pay money on the website and they need to contact on

WhatsApp and deposit money into bank accounts in India, which have

been obtained by the panel operators/promoters by way of deceiving

and cheating the peoples. All centres will tag him with a panel, which will

share the bank account details and create the user ID, allocate

points/tokens etc. The promoters keep nearly 70-75% of the profit of the

panel operations. A panel has an owner and workers who are usually

four in numbers. One person can own multiple panels and there was no

bar on number of panels being operated by one person. The head office 5 is at Dubai who creates ID and password for the panel owners. The

panel operator using the IDs can further create sub-IDs for

player/punters. The IDs are generally created on multiple websites as

depicted on the app of Mahadev online book. After receiving the details

of panel, the players/punters deposit the minimum amount of Rs.100/-

for online betting with no maximum amount. All the games are rigged in

a manner that overall, the panel owners will not lose money. During the

investigation, multiple panel operators were raided, who were working

under the Mahadev online book and it came on record that the said

betting syndicate was generating proceeds of crime worth Rs.450 crores

per month through the panel operations. It also came in the investigation

that Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal in the entire investigation to be

the kingpin of the betting empire and indulge in money laundering with

their associates. In the investigation, it also come that the said panel

operations was running with active support and connivance of local

police and politicians and after receiving illegal gratification, they

supported the said illegal betting racket by closing their eyes. It also

come that one ASI Chandrabhushan Verma who acted as Liaisoner for

the Mahadev online book promoters with political executives of the

Chhattisgarh State, who negotiated between them. He was collecting

Hawala payments made available by the promoters of Mahadev book

and distributing the same to the bureaucrats/politicians for ensuring

smooth operations of the illegal betting websites. The funds have moved

in and out of India to Dubai through various channels. Involvement of a

number of persons were found during the investigation including the

persons who engaged in layering the proceeds of crime. 6 *******The ED, during the investigation also caught hold the Hawala

kings namely Anil Kumar Dammani and Sunil Kumar Dammani. The

proceeds of crime generated by the main promoters are being layered

and invested in order to acquire assets abroad. Large expenditure in

cash is also being done in India for advertising the betting websites to

attract new users and franchises. During the investigation,

raids/searches were conducted at various places through which the

associates of promoters of Mahadev online book, individuals associated

with them, event organizers, panel operators working on commission

basis for Mahadev online book, family of the promoters of Mahadev

online book, Hawala operators. A huge amount was seized and frozen

during the searches. *******During the investigation, it is also unveiled that ASI

Chandrabhushan Verma was having role of Chief Liaisoner for Mahadev

betting app in Chhattisgarh, Satish Chandrakar was operating Mahadev

panel and distributing funds at the behest of Ravi Uppal, Anil Dammani

and Sunil Dammani were knowingly distributing funds for Mahadev

betting app, Bheem Singh and Aseem Das were involved in delivery of

the Liaisoning money, Nitin Tibrewal was engaged in layering the

proceeds of crime through his foreign entities and generation of illegal

betting earning through sky exchange, Amit Agrawal for layering the

betting earning in land transaction and Nitish Diwan for being involved in

the betting operations and assisting the main promoters of Mahadev

online book in their money laundering activities. *******On 01.03.2024, the Enforcement Directorate have shared the

information to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Economic Offence

Wing and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Raipur, Chhattisgarh under the

provisions of Section 66(2) of the PMLA-2002 and disclosed the

information about the ECIR No. RPZO/10/2022 and subsequent

complaint filed by it. In the said information, it has been disclosed that

the Mahadev online book has been running for illegal betting in different

live games like poker, card games, etc. and the promoters of the

Mahadev online betting app is regulating the said app from its head

office at Dubai. The promoters have given franchisee of the said online

betting app to various panel operators to manage the business on day-

to-day basis. Along with the information, the ED annexed the documents

available to them with respect to the involvement of the accused persons

in the Mahadev online betting app. *******On the basis of letter dated 01.03.2024, the EOW/ACB registered

an FIR under the Crime No. 6/2024 on 04.03.2024 for the offence under Sections 120-B , 34 , 406 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC, Sections 7 and 11 of

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended by amendment of the

year 2018), in which the present applicants have been named along with

other accused persons. During the investigation the involvement of the

present applicants are also found that they had played an active role in

laundering of proceeds of crime generated out of illegal operations of

Mahadev online book. They were fully aware of the illegal operations of

Mahadev online book and despite that they were providing fake SIM

cards and mobile phones to generate the OTP while playing the online

betting to various persons. During the investigation, the mobile phones 8 and SIM cards were seized from the applicants, from which various

 information was extracted. After considering sufficient evidence against

 them and they have been arrested on 07.08.2024 and charge sheet has

 been filed in the case. 3. Learned counsel appearing for the applicants would submit that the

 investigating agency has acted most arbitrarily and it had nothing, but ill-

 motivated and mala fide intention to implicate the applicants in offence.

 They are having no connection or association in any way either with the

 affairs of the business of Mahadev online book or have received the

 proceeds of crime. He would further submit that the prosecution has

 failed to establish the link of present applicants with the alleged offence.

 He would further submit that in order to save the other accused persons,

 the present applicants have been implicated in the offence. There is no

 allegation against the present applicants that they were actively involved

 in operating any penal of Mahadev Online Book or any other betting app,

 but it is alleged that certain SIM cards and mobile phones have been

 seized from them, which were used for providing OTP during the online

 betting. The mobile phones, which are shown to be seized from the

 applicants, are actually not been seized from the applicants. He would

 further submit that there is no evidence collected by the prosecution that

 the mobile phones and SIM cards, which are allegedly seized from the

 applicants are actually used in online betting app. There is no connection

 of the applicants with that of Mahadev Online Book, Lotus-365 or Reddy

 Anna Book. The prosecution agency has collected the electronic

 evidence, for which there is no basis that the applicants are involved in

 the offence. There is no ingredients of cheating in the material collected 9 during the investigation. No offence of either cheating, forgery of

valuable security, using as genuine a forge document, any criminal

conspiracy or even causing disappearance of any evidence. There is no

sufficient material against the applicants for commission of offence under

the Prevention of Corruption Act . The electronic evidence collected by

the prosecution is very weak type of evidence, on which there is no

possibility to sustain conviction of the applicants. There is no sufficient

evidence in the charge sheet against the applicants that they actively

involved in illegal earning through Mahadev Book. *******He would further submit that in the charge sheet it is alleged

against the present applicants that they gained an unfair economic

advantage by various illegal means, by providing mobile phones and

SIM cards on online gambling, which makes them liable to be punished

for the alleged offences, but there is no specific allegation against the

applicants relating to any illegal act. There is no person, who were

cheated by the applicants. There is no evidence that the applicants

conspired with the other co-accused persons. The applicants are in jail

since 07.08.2024 and till date only charge sheet has been filed and even

the charges have not been framed and therefore, there is every

possibility of delay in trial. The long period of incarceration and in view of

the violation of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India, the applicants are entitled for release on bail.

*******In support of his submissions, he would rely upon the judgment

passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI and

another , ( 2022) 10 SCC 51, P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of 10 Enforcement , ( 2020) 13 SCC 791, Sanjay Chandra v. CBI , (2012) 1

 SCC 40, Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, order dated

 12.07.2024 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 2493 of 2024, Manish

 Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1920,

 Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 1 SCC 676, Joginder

 Kumar v. State of U.P., 1994 Cr.L.J. 1981 and submitted that looking to

 the period of their custody, they are cooperative during the entire

 investigation and there is no possibility of tampering with the witnesses

 or document as the investigation has already been completed.

 Therefore, the applicants may be enlarged on bail. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the

 submissions of learned counsel for the applicants and has submitted that

 during the investigation, it was found that the promoters of Mahadev

 Online Book, who had created an online platform as an alternative to

 illegal betting in various live games in place of offline betting and started

 betting through various websites through WhatsApp, Facebook and

 Telegram. From the illegal earning, about 70-80% of the earning were

 kept by the promoters and the remaining amount was given to penal

 operators. Their turnover was about Rs. 450 Crores monthly through

 online betting app. The transaction of amount was through the bank

 accounts, which were opened on the basis of fake documents for

 transaction of the said illegal earned income. The huge cash amount

 was spent by the promoters of Mahadev Book App on advertisement of

 betting websites and for that they organized 'Star Studded' events, in

 which the various Bollywood celebrities were participated. Investments

 have been made in various companies, shell companies and stock 11 market and also in cryptocurrency. Another betting platform Sky

Exchange was also run by Harishankar Tibrewal from whose possession

the assets worth of Rs. 580 Crores were acquired through illegal

earning. *******It is also submitted by him that the present applicants were

misused the Aadhar Card/Identity Card/Photos of various persons in the

illegal business of betting through online gambling app, like Mahadev

Book, Reddy Anna and Fair Play and purchased SIM cards of various

companies and used those SIM cards to make players/punters, play

betting in Mahadev Book. These SIM cards were used for promotion of

Mahadev Book as penal operator, customer care number, to login to

WhatsApp and they also arranged bank accounts for circulation of illegal

money comes from Mahadev Book. The applicant Bharat Jyoti Pandey

was also found to be operated a penal in Mahadev Book and a huge

number of SIM cards and mobile phones have been seized from the

present applicants. The present applicants were operating OTP centres

for Mahadev Book and other betting platform by arranging keypad

mobiles and fake SIM cards. The WhatsApp group was also created by

the OTP centre, which connected with the representative of Mahadev

Book from head office at Dubai. The said SIM cards were distributed in

alphanumeric series and delivered to the accused persons through

parcels from the head office of Mahadev Book. The OTP was sent

through text messages and on the basis of tax messages, WhatsApp

was activated. He would further submit that from the possession of the

applicant- Bharat Jyoti Pandey @ Guru @ Bhaskar 50 mobile phones

and more than 400 SIM cards have been seized from his possession. 12 From the applicant- Vishwajeet Rai Choudhary, huge number of mobile

phones and SIM cards have been seized. Further, from the applicant-

Atul Singh also 25 mobile phones and huge number of SIM cards were

seized during investigation. He would further submit that from the

statement of the witnesses Kamlesh Gupta, Vikram Singh, Sanjay

Gupta, Tipu Sharma, Dipender Sharma, Rahul Kumar Tyagi, Krishna

Dalai, Rishu Kumar Tiwari and Pradeep Kumar Pandey, the involvement

of the applicants in the offence in question have been duly connected.

There is overwhelming evidence against the applicants to connect them

in the offence in question and therefore they are not entitled for bail. He would also submit that when the EOW/ACB received an

information of cognizable offence, he has to register the FIR as per the

direction issued by Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Lalita Kumari v.

Government of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. (2008) 7 SCC 164. The ECIR

is not an FIR, but is a complaint. He would further submit that for

commission of offence under Section 3 of PMLA, it is not necessary that

a person must also commit the predicate offence. He would also submit

that the involvement in the criminal activity is the relevant consideration.

A person can be held guilty in money laundering, even if he is not named

in the scheduled offence. In support of his contention, he relied upon the

case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary v. Union of India , 2022 SCC

OnLine SC 929. In the present case, the offence under the money

laundering act is not akin to the offence of IPC or the Prevention of

Corruption Act . The offence of money laundering is entirely different from

the offence of cheating or forgery of the valuable security/document. He

would also relied upon the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme 13 Court in the matter of State Through CBI v. Anil Sharma , (1997), 7

 SCC 187, in which the Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered that the

 custodial interrogation is a qualitative method of interrogation and ED

 has only shared certain information with the EOW/ACB, and it is for the

 EOW/ACB to interrogate the allegations of the information. Therefore,

 there is need to arrest to the applicants and to interrogate them. While

 considering the bail application, the allegations in the charge sheet

 against the applicants are the relevant consideration and the role of the

 accused and also the prima facie evidence available against them. In the

 present case, there is sufficient evidence available against the present

 applicants that they are involved in the alleged offence and looking to the

 seriousness of the offence, they are not entitled to be released on bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

 placed in the present case by both the parties. 6. For consideration of the bail application of the applicant, the Court need

 not go deep inside the merits of the case, but should consider the prima

 facie material against the accused in the case. The Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary case (supra) has

 observed in para 401 of its judgment that:- 7. In the case of Satish Jaggi Vs. State of Chhattisgarh , (2007) 11 SCC

 195, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "at the stage of granting

 of bail, the Court can only go into the question of prima facie case

 established for granting bail, it cannot go into the question of credibility

 and reliability of witnesses put up by the prosecution. The question of

 credibility and reliability of prosecution witnesses can only be tested

 during trial." 8. In the present case from the statements of Kamlesh Gupta, Vikram

 Singh, Sanjay Gupta, Tipu Sharma, Dipender Sharma, Rahul Tyagi,

 Krishna Dalai, Rishu Kumar Tiwari and Pradeep Kumar Pandey, it comes

 that the present applicants are involved in illegal betting app of Mahadev

 Online Book and providing OTP for online betting app and they also

 provided the bank accounts for transaction of money comes from

 Mahadev Book online betting app and obtained their commission. They

 afforded huge amount of commission to the various persons for providing

 their bank accounts, which were to be used in money transactions of

 illegal betting app. From seizure of the huge items of mobile phones and

 SIM cards, itself shows their involvement in the offence in question. 15 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy

 Vs. CBI , reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439 has held in para 34 and 35 of its

 judgment that

 "34. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need
 to be visited with a different approach in the matter of
 bail. The economic offences having deep-rooted
 conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds
 need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave
 offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole
 and thereby posing serious threat to the financial health
 of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the
 nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support
 thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction
 will entail, the character of the accused, circumstances
 which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility
 of securing the presence of the accused at the trial,
 reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being
 tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considerations. 10. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) has observed in para 398 as under :- 11. Having considered the rival submissions made by respective parties, as

 also from the material produced in the present case, it is not acceptable

 that the present applicants did not know about the transactions of

 Mahadev online book and the money obtained by them. Seizure of huge

 number of mobile phones and SIM cards from the applicants and

 statements of the witnesses clearly demonstrates their association with

 the others, who associated with Mahadev Book and Reddy Anna Book.

 Denial by the applicants itself is not sufficient to consider prima facie that

 there is no mens rea of the applicants for the said offence either under

 the IPC, Chhattisgarh Gambling (Prohibition) Act, 2022 or Public

 Gambling Act, 1867 or under the Prevention of Corruption Act . Although

 the statements of the witnesses are required to be tested at the time of

 trial, but for the purpose of consideration of bail application, the

 statements of the witnesses are relevant for consideration of bail

 application of the applicants. 12. As has been discussed hereinabove, it cannot be said that there is no

 involvement of the applicants in the offence in question. Considering the

 role of the applicants in providing mobile phones/SIM cards/bank

 accounts and OTP and obtaining the money through illegal source, which

 is the proceeds of crime in the Mahadev book app, it is found that there is

 sufficient evidence collected by the EOW/ACB to prima facie show the

 involvement of the applicants in the alleged offences. It is an organized

 crime having various facets of its complexion, therefore, further 17 considering the nature of offence and material collected during the

 investigation, this Court is satisfied that there is prima facie evidence for

 believing that the applicants are involved in the offence, therefore, I am

 not inclined to release the applicants on bail. 13. Consequently, the present bail application filed by the applicants- Bharat

 Jyoti @ Guru @ Bhaskar, Vishwajeet Rai Choudhari and Atul Singh

 is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge

ved