All these Criminal Petitions, though relating to different crimes

but concerning the same petitioners/accused and relating to similar

nature of offences, have been considered together and are being taken

up for disposal by way of a common order. 2. Crl.P.No.3966 of 2020 is filed to quash FIR No.11 of

2018 on the file of CBI, BS & FC, Bangalore. The petitioners are

accused Nos.1 to 4 in the said crime. The offences alleged against

them are under Sections - 409, 420, 467, 468 and 471 read with 120-B

of IPC and also under Section - 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short 'Act, 1988'). 3. The very same petitioners have filed Crl.P.No.3982 of

2020 to quash FIR No.RC0352020A0002 on the file of CBI ACB,

Hyderabad. The petitioners are accused Nos.1 to 4 in the said crime.

The offences alleged against them are under Section - 420 read with

120-B of IPC and under Section - 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the

Act, 1988. 4. The very same petitioners have filed Crl.P.No.4272 of

2020 to quash the complaint and investigation in ECIR/HYZO/03/

2019/2420, 2421 and 2422 on the file of Assistant Director,

Enforcement Directorate, Ministry of Finance, Government of India,
 KL,J 3 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch Basheerbagh, Hyderabad. The petitioners are accused Nos.1 to 4 in

the said ECIR. 5. Heard Sri Vedula Venkata Ramana, learned Senior

Counsel representing Sri D. B. Chaitanya, learned counsel for the

petitioners, Sri B. Narasimha Sharma, learned Standing Counsel for

Enforcement Directorate and Sri K. Surender, learned Special Public

Prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation. 6. The allegations against the petitioners in FIR No.11/2018
on the file of CBI, BS & FC, Bangalore: accused No.1 along with others has floated petitioner No.4. Petitioner

No.1 is the Managing Director of petitioner No.4. It also owned M/s.

Jumbo Mining Limited, a Hyderabad based Mining and Ceramic Raw

Material Export Company. iii) Petitioner No.4 was recognized by the Government of India

as a Star Export House and it became second largest Exporter from

India for Ceramic Raw Material. The said M/s. Jumbo Mining

Limited was sold to IMERYS, a Euro 6 Billion Company in the year

2007. Petitioner No.3 - accused No.3 is a promoter of RHI Clasil
 KL,J 4 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch Limited, a Joint Venture Refractory Unit and part of Euro 1.9 Billion

RHI AG Group, Germany. He was proposed to be responsible for

planning the long term strategy of petitioner No.4. iv) Petitioner No.2 - accused No.2 has more than 2½ decades

of experience in cement industry. He is also the promoter of M/s. CH

Patel Agency, Hyderabad, which is engaged in high value cement

trading business in India. Petitioner No.2's contacts in the trade have

helped petitioner No.4 to establish many customers engaged in cement

manufacturing. v) Petitioner No.4 availed credit facilities from different banks

including the Central Bank of India, the State Bank of India, the Bank

of Baroda, ICICI Bank and the Bank of Maharashtra under multiple

banking arrangements for the purpose of doing the business of trading

of coal. vi) The Central Bank of India alleged that petitioner No.4 viz.,

M/s. Kyori Oremin Limited along with its Directors, the other

accused, have committed fraud and cheated the Bank and on account

of their deliberate act and omission, caused wrongful loss to a tune of

Rs.60.00 Crores approximately to the bank. vii) In the year 2012, petitioner No.4 represented by petitioner

Nos.1 to 3 have approached the Central Bank of India, the de facto

complainant, for financial assistance and working capital requirement

by way of cash credit hypothecation and letter of credit facilities
 KL,J 5 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch under the multiple banking arrangements. They have offered security

for the facilities to be granted by the Central Bank of India. The

details of the property are specifically mentioned in the complaint

dated 30.06.2018. The details of loan and the personal guarantees

offered by the petitioners were also specifically mentioned in the

complaint. viii) After assessing the requirements, the Central Bank of

India has sanctioned an amount of Rs.20.00 Crores by way of cash

credit hypothecation and Rs.40.00 Crores by way of letter of credit

facility on 19.03.2012 on a pre-condition that other banks shall give

no objection certificate for sharing the primary securities. On receipt

of no objection certificate from other banks and after execution of

necessary documents/creation of security, the Company started

availing the loan facilities. ix) Initially, petitioner No.4 maintained the cash credit account

within the limits and adjusted the LCs on due date without any

devolvement. Subsequently, during the year 2014, petitioner No.4

made a request for enhancement of limit from existing Rs.60.00

Crores to Rs.85.00 Crores and the same was sanctioned under the

proposed consortium arrangement with the Central Bank of India as a

lead bank. However, formation of consortium did not materialize due

to non-tie-up of the assessed limits with other banks. KL,J 6 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch x) Stock audit was conducted by the Central Bank of India and

the details of the same were specifically mentioned in paragraph - 10

of the complaint dated 30.06.2018. Internal audit and statutory audits

were conducted and till September 2015, there has been no major

adverse remark. Petitioner No.4 continued to enjoy the existing loan

sanctioned limits of Rs.60.00 Crore with the bank. The company

utilized the loan sanctioned limits fully under cash credit

hypothecation and LC facilities. The terms of sanction conveyed to

the petitioners herein and the same was acknowledged by them.

However, the terms and conditions of the loan sanctioned were not

complied with. The account was classified as Non-Performing Asset

(NPA) on 30.09.2015 as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of

India since petitioner No.4 failed to repay the loan over dues. The

balance outstanding on the date of NPA is Rs.62.47 Crore. The fraud

is registered with the Reserve Bank of India on 30.11.2016. The

account has been declared as fraud on 30.11.2016 for the reasons

specifically mentioned therein. xi) The bank has decided to conduct forensic audit and the

same was allotted to M/s. S.P. Rungta and Associates, Chartered

Accountants, Mumbai, which in turn, conducted forensic audit and

submitted its report on 13.10.2016 pointing out serious lapses

including the lapse that petitioner No.4 has not followed the prudent

accounting policy. The audited financial statements do not reflect true

and fair view. The auditors have declared that the balances of
 KL,J 7 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch debtors/credits etc., are not reliable. Petitioner Nos.1 to 3 have not co-

operated with the auditors in carrying the financial audit and not made

available the books and records to assess the inventory position.

Petitioner No.4 has not filed annual returns for the year 2013-14 and

2014-15. Petitioner No.4 does not adopt the prudent accounting

policy to hide and prevent untrue and unfair financial position of the

company. The said criminal fraud is evident and apparent from the

books of the company. xii) The Central Bank of India has conducted examination of

staff accountability and found that three of its staff members are

accountable for procedural lapses. With the said allegations, the

Central Bank of India has requested the Superintendent of Police,

CBI, Bangalore, to take action against the petitioners herein. 7. The allegations against the petitioners in FIR
No.RC0352020A0002 on the file of CBI ACB, Hyderabad: 8. The allegations against the petitioners in ECIR
No.03/HYZO, dated 18.03.2019 on the file of Assistant Director,
Enforcement Directorate, Ministry of Finance, Government of
India, Basheerbagh, Hyderabad: KL,J 10 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch v) The PMLA deals with three aspects i.e., (i) Offence of

Money-Laundering, (ii) Attachment, Adjudication and Confiscation

and (iii) Summons, Searches and Seizures etc., Chapter III of the said

Act deals with Attachment, Adjudication and Confiscation, Chapter V

deals with Summons, Searchers and Seizures, etc., and Chapter VI

deals with Appellate Provisions. vi) After registration of ECIR, the Enforcement Directorate

started collecting various documents including bank account

statements, income tax returns, details of moveable/immovable

properties in the names of the petitioners and other related persons,

credit audit reports, stock audit reports, etc. On perusal of the said

documents, it is found that, prima facie, there appears to be substantial

case of fraud and diversion of loan amounts by the management of

petitioner No.4. Investigation of the case is at very crucial stage and

the Enforcement Directorate has conducted searches on the premises

of the Directors of petitioner No.4 on 16.09.2020. Certain crucial and

incriminating materials have been recovered. The allegations against

the petitioners are of serious nature and are specific in nature and

require a detailed investigation. 9. Contentions of the Petitioners: (iv) The ingredients of the offences alleged against the
 petitioners are lacking. (v) Petitioner No.4 has availed One Time Settlement (OTS)
 as announced by the banks and the said OTS proposals
 were accepted by the banks as per the guidelines issued by
 the Reserve Bank of India. Thereafter, petitioner No.4
 has paid the entire amount to the banks, in terms of the
 said OTS. (vi) There is no complaint of violation of any of the guidelines
 issued by the Reserve Bank of India, while availing OTS
 by the petitioners. (vii) The banks, having accepted the OTS proposals submitted
 by petitioner No.4 and received the amounts, cannot
 prosecute the petitioners by pursuing with the complaints
 already lodged. (viii) The banks have already initiated proceedings under the
 provisions of the Securitization and Reconstruction of
 Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest
 Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act ), after declaring the accounts
 of petitioner No.4 as NPA. (ix) The petitioners have repaid the entire loan amount in
 accordance with OTS and the banks have also issued no
 objection certificates on 25.08.2020. KL,J 12 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch (x) The complaints lodged by the banks do not disclose
 commission of any criminal offence. (xi) A loan transaction cannot be converted into a criminal
 prosecution since the bank loan is always supported with
 heavy surety and third party personal guarantees of the
 Directors also. (xii) There are no specific allegations against petitioner Nos.1
 to 3. (xiii) Utilization of loan amount for a purpose other than for
 which it is sanctioned is not a matter on which the bank
 has any control. (xiv) Lending of money by the bank is linked to the security of
 the guarantees. (xv) As per the panchanama conducted by the Enforcement
 Directorate, no incriminating material was found in the
 house or office of the petitioners. (xvi) The petitioners are ready to co-operate with the CBI and
 the Enforcement Directorate in concluding the
 investigation and enquiry. (xvii) Reliance was placed on the principle laid down by the
 Apex Court in Central Bureau of Investigation v.
 Sadhu Ram Singla1 , Indian Oil Corpn. v. NEPC India
 Ltd.2 , Satishchandra Ratanlal Shah v. State of
 Gujarat3 and Gian Singh v. State of Punjab4 . (xviii) As per the principle laid down by the Apex Court in
 Sadhu Ram Singla1, the prosecution by the CBI itself is 1 AIR 2017 SC 1312 2 (2006) 6 SCC 736 3 (2019) 9 SCC 148 4 (2012) 10 SCC 303
 KL,J 13 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch baseless and it is an abuse of process of law and hence, on
 the complaint of the CBI, registration of crime by the
 Enforcement Directorate under the provisions of the
 PMLA is again an abuse of process of law. (xix) There is no basis much less proceeds of crime and hence,
 the provisions of the PMLA do not attract at all.

(xx) The investigation/enquiry by the Enforcement Directorate
 in ECIR/HYZO/03/2019/2420, 2421 and 2422 is again an
 abuse of process of law. 10. Contentions of Enforcement Directorate: KL,J 14 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch (vi) There is immediate requirement of confronting the
 Directors of petitioner No.4 to the documents gathered
 during the investigation. For the said purpose only, the
 Enforcement Directorate has issued summons under
 Section - 50 of the PMLA directing petitioner Nos.1 to 3
 to appear before it for the purpose of recording their
 statements and conducting investigation. (vii) The petitioners, instead of appearing before the
 Enforcement Directorate, have filed the present Criminal
 Petitions under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C. (viii) Reliance was placed on the decisions of the Apex Court in
 Parbatbhai Aahir alias Parbatbhai Bhimsinhbhai
 Karmur v. State of Gujrat5 and Suman Singh v. Sanjay
 Singh6 and also an unreported judgment of the High Court
 of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and
 the State of Andhra Pradesh in Dalmia Cement (Bharat)
 Limited v. The State of A.P. , rep.by its Prl.Secretary,
 Rev. Department, Hyderabad7. 11. Contentions of the Central Bureau of Investigation: 2018(1) RCR (Crl.) 336 9 2016(1) SCC 389 10 2014(2) SCC (Crl) 853
 KL,J 16 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch (ix) By placing reliance on the above said decisions, it is
 contended by the CBI that in the matter of economic
 offence, exercise of inherent power under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C ., by the High Court is unjust. CONSIDERATION OF THE COURT: 12. In view of the above stated rival contentions, the

undisputed facts are as follows: Accordingly, the said Forensic Audit was entrusted to M/s. S.P.

Rungta and Associations which has conducted Forensic Audit and

submitted its report pointing out various lapses on the part of

petitioners herein. The said lapses were specifically mentioned in the

complaints dated 30.06.2018 and 29.02.2020 lodged by the Central

Bank of India and the Bank of Maharashtra respectively. 13. The petitioners did not challenge the proceedings issued by

the Banks declaring the accounts of petitioner No.4 Company as NPA

and fraud accounts and, therefore, the said proceedings attained

finality. 14. Petitioner No.4 has availed OTS facility offered by the

Banks by submitting appropriate proposals. The said OTS proposals

submitted by petitioner No.4 were accepted by the Banks and

proceedings were issued informing petitioner No.4 about acceptance

of the OTS. The amount to be paid and the time also specifically

mentioned therein. 15. In the letter dated 31.12.2019 issued by the Bank of

Maharashtra, it is specifically mentioned that the Competent

Authority has approved the compromise proposal of petitioner No.4
 KL,J 18 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch Company for Rs.8.60 Crores under OTS in full and final settlement of

the dues on certain conditions including the following condition: 16. In the letter dated 14.05.2020 issued by the Bank of

Maharashtra, it is specifically mentioned that "sacrifice in ledger

balance" is Rs.17.60 Crores. 17. It is also relevant to mention that the Central Bank of India

in the letter dated 21.09.2019 informed petitioner No.4 that the Higher

Authorities of the bank have sanctioned the offer to settle the account

under OTS for Rs.17,95,00,000/- in full and final settlement of the

dues on certain conditions including the following conditions: KL,J 19 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch In the No Dues Certificate dated 25.08.2020, the Central Bank of

India has specifically reiterated the above said condition. 18. Vide letter dated 26.12.2019, the Bank of Baroda has

informed the 4th petitioner company about sanction of compromise

proposal on certain conditions including the following condition: 19. It is relevant to mention that the 4th petitioner company has

received the above said proceedings and sought revised OTS

acceptance proposal in respect of one Bank, the same were issued and

thereafter petitioner No.4 has paid amounts to the respective banks.

Thus, the petitioners have accepted the terms and conditions of the

respective banks while accepting the OTS proposals. They have not

challenged / disputed any of the terms and conditions imposed by the
 KL,J 20 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch banks. Therefore, the petitioners now cannot contend that the de facto

complainants viz., the Central Bank of India and Bank of Maharashtra,

having accepted the OTS proposals, having received the entire

amounts cannot pursue criminal proceedings and cannot file

complaints against the petitioners. Therefore, the contention of the

learned senior counsel to the said effect cannot be accepted. 20. In Sadhu Ram Singla1, the Apex Court had an occasion

to deal with the case of compounding of offences under Section - 320

of Cr.P.C . against the company after accepting OTS, and after filing

of charge sheet against the company for causing financial loss to the

bank with criminal conspiracy. In the said case, the company has

obtained loan from the bank and did not repay the same, and

therefore, the account of the company was declared as NPA. On

verification of the stocks, it was found that the company therein had

fraudulently obtained higher credit limits on the basis of false and

fabricated stock statements by forging the signatures. The law was set

into motion and FIR was registered. During the pendency of the

proceedings before the Court, a compromise was arrived at between

the company therein and the bank under OTS. An application was

filed by the company therein for compounding the offences under

Section - 320 (2) of Cr.P.C . and the same was dismissed by the trial

Court on the ground that Section - 427 read with Section - 468 of IPC is a non-compoundable offence. KL,J 21 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch 21. Thereafter, they have approached the High Court of

Punjab and Haryana invoking its powers under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C ., for quashing the FIR and the resultant proceedings. The High

Court of Punjab and Haryana quashed the criminal proceedings on the

ground that the bank and the company therein have entered into a

settlement and entire amount was paid. Then the matter was carried

to the Apex Court. The Apex Court, by relying upon various

judgments, held that law relating to the continuance of criminal cases

where the complainant and the accused had settled their differences

and had arrived at an amicable arrangement, continuance of criminal

proceedings would amount to abuse of process of Court and an

exercise in futility since the trial would be prolonged and ultimately, it

may end in a decision which may be of no consequence to any of the

parties. 22. The said principle is not applicable to the facts of the

present case, as the facts in the said case are distinguishable with the

facts of the present case. As discussed supra, in the letters dated

21.09.2019, 26.12.2019 and 31.12.2019, both the banks have

informed the petitioners that acceptance of OTS will not absolve the

criminal proceedings and the criminal proceedings will go on and that

both are different and distinct. The petitioners have accepted the said

terms and conditions without any dispute. It appears that the said

terms and conditions are not there in respect of the company in Sadhu
 KL,J 22 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch Ram Singla1. Therefore, the principle laid down by the Apex Court

in the said case is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 23. The details of the loans availed from the lender banks

under multiple banking arrangement, their book balance and OTS are

as follows: 24. The above stated facts would reveal that it is a case of

"loan fraud". Petitioner No.4-company represented by petitioner

Nos.1 to 3 has obtained loans and credit facilities from the above said

banks in the manner stated supra. According to the banks, the

petitioners have taken loan, purposefully defaulted in payment of

loan, and in the end, get away by doing OTS with the banks, wherein

they have paid only a small percentage of loan amounts due and thus

caused undue loss to the banks while enriching themselves.

According to the banks, the petitioners have caused them a massive

loss of Rs.182.99 Crores. The said money ultimately belongs to the

public/tax payers. Thus, prima facie, the petitioners have committed

fraud not only against the banks, but also against the public in general. KL,J 23 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch Such economic frauds adversely affect the financial and economic

well-being of the Nation and have implications which lie beyond the

domain of a mere dispute between petitioner No.4 and the above said

banks including Central Bank of India and Bank of Maharashtra. The

mere fact that the banks which are already under stress to clear the

NPAs from their books accepted the OTS, will not absolve the

petitioners from criminal charges. 25. At the cost of repetition, it is relevant to mention that, in

the above said letters, both the banks have specifically mentioned that

acceptance of OTS proposals by the banks will not absolve the

criminal liability of the petitioners. According to the banks, Central

Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, out of fear of

facing punishment stipulated under the provisions of law, the

petitioners have approached the banks with OTS proposals. The

source of funds used by the petitioners for completing the OTS is also

suspect and it is part of Enforcement Directorate's fund trial

investigation. Petitioner No.4 has defaulted the credit facilities

availed from 5 banks and caused huge losses to the banks despite the

OTS and the details of the same are mentioned in the tabular form

mentioned supra. 26. In all the above OTS, it has been found that all the banks

were put to a total loss to a tune of Rs.182.99 Crores approximately.

The Enforcement Directorate has initiated investigation/enquiry under
 KL,J 24 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch the provisions of PMLA since the offences alleged against the

petitioners are scheduled offences under the said Act. There are

serious allegations against the petitioners. Bank loan frauds are a

scourge on our economy and therefore it is the duty of the

Enforcement Directorate to investigate all bank frauds in which there

is loss of more than Rs.25.00 Crores to the banks. The present case is

not falling in any of the exceptions mentioned by the Apex Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal11 . 27. The Apex Court in Parbatbhai Aahir alias Parbatbhai

Bhimsinhbhai Karmur5 categorically held that economic offences

involving the financial and economic well-being of the State have

implications which lie beyond the domain of mere dispute between

private disputants. The High Court would be justified in declining to

quash where the offender is involved in an activity akin to a financial

or economic fraud or misdemeanor. The consequences of the act

complained of upon the financial or economic system will weigh in

the balance. 28. Similar principle was laid down by the Apex Court in

Gopakumar B Nair10. In the said judgment , it was further held that

the offences are certainly more serious. They are not private in

nature. The charge of conspiracy is to commit offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act . The accused has also been charged for 11 . 1992 Supp. (1) SCC 335
 KL,J 25 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch commission of substantive offence under Section - 471 of IPC .

Though the amounts due have been paid, the same is under private

settlement between the parties. There is no acknowledgement on the

part of the Bank of the exoneration of the criminal liability of the

accused unlike the terms of compromise decree. 29. In view of the said principle, it is also relevant to point out

that in the present case, the complainants' bank have specifically

incorporated in the acceptance of OTS proposals terms and conditions

that the acceptance of OTS will not absolve the criminal liability of

the petitioners and OTS and criminal liability are different and

distinct. 30. In Hari Singh Ranka8, the Apex Court considered the

affect of OTS and held that the OTS merely deals with the civil

liability that too by making of payment of Rs.25.00 Crores whereas

outstanding liability was Rs.44.00 Crores though it was submitted loss

caused was approximately Rs.13.00 Crores. The amount which has

been settled in OTS scheme cannot be legally sufficient to wipe out

the criminal liability of the accused persons. The OTS could wipe off

only the civil liability, but not the criminal one. 31. In the present case, it is specifically mentioned in the letter

dated 14.05.2020 issued by the Bank of Maharashtra that the sacrifice

in ledger balance is Rs.17.60 Crores. According to above said five

banks, the total loss caused to the banks due to the criminal acts of the
 KL,J 26 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch petitioners herein, is Rs.182.99 Crores. The details of the same are

specifically mentioned in the tabular form mentioned supra. 32. In Maninder Singh9, the Apex Court held that the

inherent powers of the High Court under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C .

should be sparingly used. Only when the Court comes to the

conclusion that there would be manifest injustice or there would be

abuse of the process of the Court if such power is not exercised, Court

would quash the proceedings. In economic offences Court must not

only keep in view that money has been paid to the bank which has

been defrauded but also the society at large. It is not a case of simple

assault or a theft of a trivial amount; but the offence with which the

Court concerned is a well planned and was committed with a

deliberate design with an eye of personal profit regardless of

consequence to the society at large. To quash the proceeding merely

on the ground that the accused has settled the amount with the bank

would be a misplaced sympathy. If the prosecution against the

economic offenders is not allowed to continue, the entire community

is aggrieved. 33. A Three-Judge Bench of Hon'ble Apex Court in State of

Madhya Pradesh v. Laxmi Narayan12 by referring to its various

earlier judgments summarized the law for exercise of inherent powers

to quash the criminal proceedings under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C . by 12 . (2019) 5 SCC 688
 KL,J 27 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch the High Court. It held that the High Court has to examine facts of

each case on case to case basis including nature of offence, its impact

on the society etc. 34. In Gian Sing4, a Three-Judge Bench of the Apex Court laid

down guidelines and also categories of cases in which power of High

Court under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C . to quash criminal proceedings

can be exercised. It held that in what cases power to quash the

criminal proceedings or complaint or FIR may be exercised where the

offender and the victim have settled their dispute would depend on the

facts and circumstances of each case and no category can be

prescribed. However, before exercise of such power, the High Court

must have due regard to the nature and gravity of crime. 35. As stated above, there are serious allegations and the fraud

alleged to have been committed by the petitioners is Rs.182.99

Crores. Therefore, according to this Court, it is not a fit case to

exercise the inherent power of this Court under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C . to quash the criminal proceedings against the petitioners. 36. In Satishchandra Ratanlal Shah3, the disputes arise out of

a loan transaction between the parties, the attendant circumstances

before lending loan were known to the loanee. In order to recover the

loan, the Financial Institution had instituted a summary civil suit

which was pending adjudication. While considering the said facts, the

Apex Court held that in view of the breach of promise, agreement or
 KL,J 28 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch contract does not ipso fact constitute the offence of the criminal

breach of trust contained in Section - 405 of IPC without there-being a

clear case of entrustment. The mere inability of the appellant to return

the loan amount cannot give rise to a criminal prosecution for

cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown right at the

beginning of the transaction, as it is this mens rea which is the crux of

the offence. 37. But, whereas, in the present case, the accounts of the

petitioner No.4 Company were declared as NPA and for the criminal

activities resorted to by its Directors. The said accounts were

identified as fraud accounts. The petitioners herein did not challenge

the said proceedings and thus, the said proceedings attainted finality.

The fraud played by the petitioners is specifically mentioned in the

tabular form mentioned supra which is Rs.182.99 Crores and it is a

loan fraud and it is an economic offence. Therefore, the said principle

in Laxmi Narayan12 is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 38. As discussed supra, there are serious allegations against

the petitioners. M/s. S.P. Rungta and Associates has mentioned in its

report about the lapses of the petitioners. The said lapses were

specifically mentioned in the complaints dated 30.06.2018 and

29.02.2020. The account of petitioner No.4 in Central Bank of India

was declared as fraud on 30.11.2016 and at paragraph No.14 of the

complaint dated 30.06.2018, the Central Bank of India specifically
 KL,J 29 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch mentioned the details of the same. There are serious allegations that

the funds of petitioner No.4 were diverted by petitioner Nos.1 to 3 for

their personal needs. Petitioner No.4 has not filed financial statements

for the years 2013-14 and 2014-15. Petitioner Nos.1 to 3, being the

Managing Director and Directors of petitioner No.4 respectively have

not co-operated with the auditors in carrying the financial audit and

also have not made available the books and records to assess the

inventory position. Therefore, Joint Lending Forum was formed by

the Bankers, and in the meeting of the said Forum, the banks have

taken a decision to conduct forensic audit and the same was entrusted

to M/s. S.P. Rungta and Associates. Thus, prima facie, in all,

petitioner No.4 has committed fraud to the tune of Rs.182.99 Crores

and it is a wrongful loss to the public exchequer and it is tax payers'

money. It is a loan fraud which is a serious fraud and there are serious

allegations against the petitioners. 39. The Enforcement Directorate has issued summons under

Section - 50 (2) of the PMLA, conducted searches on the premises of

the Directors of petitioner No.4 and certain crucial and incriminating

material has been recovered. Thus, there is an immediate requirement

of confronting the Directors of petitioner No.4 to the documents

collected during investigation. For the said purpose, the summons

were issued to them for their appearance under Section - 50 (2) of the

PMLA. The petitioners instead of appearing before the Authorized

Officer of the Enforcement Directorate and co-operating with the
 KL,J 30 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch investigation/enquiry, filed the present Criminal Petitions seeking to

quash the said summons. 40. Sri B. Narasimha Sharma, learned Standing Counsel for

Enforcement Directorate, has produced copy of ECIR/HYZO/03/2019

in a sealed cover. This Court has perused the said ECIR, wherein it is

specifically mentioned the above source of information, material

received, place of occurrence of crime, details of accused, property

initially suspected to be proceeds of crime and material of commission

of offence and reasons to believe that an offence of Money

Laundering has been committed and offence thereof. By mentioning

the said facts, it is specifically mentioned in the ECIR that a prima

facie case for an offence of money laundering under Section - 3 of

PMLA and punishable under Section - 4 of the Act appears to have

been made out. Therefore, the Enforcement Directorate has registered

a case and is taken up for investigation under the provisions of the

PMLA and the Rules made thereunder. 41. The investigation is an exclusively reserved for the

Enforcement Directorate and it is collecting the evidence. Thereafter,

Enforcement Directorate will follow the procedure laid down under

Chapter - III of the PMLA i.e., Attachment, Adjudication and

Confiscation. It will follow the procedure under Chapter - V i.e.,

Summons, Searchers and Seizures, etc. On completion of the same,

including orders passed by the adjudicating authority, there is a
 KL,J 31 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch provision for filing appeal by invoking the procedure laid down under

Chapter - VI of the said Act. According to the Enforcement

directorate, instead of co-operating with the Investigating Officer of

the Enforcement Directorate pursuant to the summons, the petitioners

have filed the present Criminal Petitions under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C . and, therefore, the present petitions are not maintainable since

ECIR cannot be equated with FIR. 42. In view of the above said submissions of the learned

standing Counsel for Enforcement Directorate, it is relevant to refer to

the definition of 'investigation' as per Section - 2 (na) of the PMLA,

which includes all the proceedings under this Act conducted by the

Director or by an authority authorized by the Central Government

under this Act for the collection of evidence. Section - 2 (u) deals

with proceeds of crime which means any property derived or

obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal

activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such

property. Section - 3 of the PMLA deals with Offence of money-

Laundering, as per which, whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to

indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually

involved in any process or activity connected proceeds of crime

including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and

projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of

offence of money-laundering. Section - 5 deals with attachment of

property involved in the money-laundering. Section - 44 of PMLA
 KL,J 32 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch deals with offences triable by Special Courts, and as per Section - 44

(1) (b), a Special Court may upon a complaint made by an Authority

authorized in this behalf under this Act take cognizance of offence

under Section - 3 without the accused being committed to it for trial. 43. A learned single Judge of High Court of Judicature at

Hyderabad in Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited7 had an occasion to

deal with the scope of enquiry under the provisions of the PMLA,

registration of crime, issuance of ECIR and also various provisions of

the PMLA. By considering the submissions of the parties and also

principle laid down by the Apex Court in various judgments, it was

held that investigation under the provisions of the PMLA is only for

the purpose of collecting evidence with regard to proceeds of crime in

the hands of the persons suspected and their involvement, if any, in

the offence under Section - 3 of the PMLA. It was further held that it

could not able to equate ECIR registered by Enforcement Directorate

to an FIR under Section - 154 Cr.P.C . The persons whom summons

were issued under Section - 50 of the PMLA cannot be treated as they

are accused at present. 44. In the said judgment , the principle laid down by the

Apex Court in Ramesh Chandra Mehta v. State of West Bengal [AIR 1970 SC 940] was referred, wherein it was held that normally a

person stands in the character of an accused when a first information

report is lodged against him in respect of an offence before an Officer
 KL,J 33 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch competent to investigate it, or when a complaint is made relating to

the commission of an offence before a Magistrate competent to try or

send to another Magistrate for trial the offence, where a Customs

Officer arrests a person and informs that person of the grounds of his

arrest for the purpose of holding an enquiry into the infringement of

the provisions of the Sea Customs Act which he has reason to believe

has taken place, there is no formal accusation of an offence. In the

case of an offence by infringement of the Sea Customs Act and

punishable at the trial before a Magistrate there is an accusation when

a complaint is lodged by an officer competent in that behalf before the

Magistrate. 45. By referring to the same, it was further held that when an

ECIR is lodged with the Directorate of Enforcement, there is no

Magisterial intervention unlike an FIR and mere registration of ECIR

against the suspects of offence under Section - 3 of the PMLA cannot

go to mean that such persons are accused. The protection against

testimonial compulsion as under Cr.P.C as well as under Article - 20

(3) of the Constitution of India would not be available as claimed by

the petitioners therein. 46. Even in the present case also, ECIR was registered by the

Enforcement Directorate basing on the case registered by CBI for the

schedule offences under PMLA. They have conducted searches and

seized documents from the premises of the petitioners. It has issued
 KL,J 34 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch summons under Section - 50 (2) of PMLA, directing the petitioners to

appear before it for the purpose of recording their statements and to

produce records as part of investigation and also to confront the

documents collected by it during searches. The petitioners instead of

co-operating with the Investigating Officer in completing the

investigation filed the present petitions to quash the summons issued

by the Enforcement Directorate. As held by High Court of Judicature

at Hyderabad in Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited7, the petitioners

herein are not accused under PMLA and, therefore, protection against

testimonial compulsion as under Cr.P.C . as well as under Article - 20

(3) of the Constitution of India could not be available to the

petitioners herein. 47. In view of the said authoritative pronouncement of law,

coming to the facts of the case on hand, as discussed supra, the

Enforcement Directorate has initiated investigation under the

provisions of the PMLA considering the fact that the offences alleged

against the petitioners in both the FIRs registered by Central Bureau

of Investigation are scheduled offences. The modus operandi adopted

by the petitioners in availing the loans and getting the accounts

NPA/fraud and availing OTS by paying meager amounts is

specifically mentioned in the complaints dated 30.06.2018 and

29.02.2020. KL,J 35 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch 48. The Enforcement Directorate has been investigating the

present case like other cases where the company takes loan,

purposefully defaults on the loans and in the end get away by paying

OTS with the bank, where they pay only small percentage of the loan

dues and thus cause undue loss to the bank while enriching

themselves. It is at investigation stage. The petitioners have to co-

operate with the Investigating Officer by appearing before him

pursuant to the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate. 49. In the present case also, the total OTS payment done by

petitioner No.4 is only a small fraction of total dues. The details of

the same are specifically mentioned in the tabular form mentioned

supra. The allegation against petitioner No.4 is that it has caused a

massive loss of Rs.182.99 Crores to the public sector banks and the

same is also specifically mentioned in the complaints dated

30.06.2018 and 29.02.2020 by the Central Bank of India and Bank of

Maharashtra. The said money ultimately belongs to the public and tax

payers. Thus, prima facie, the petitioners have committed fraud not

only against one or two banks, but against the public in general and it

is a 'loan fraud' and it is an 'economic offence'. 50. Such economic frauds adversely affect the financial and

economic well-being of the Nation and have implications which lie

beyond the domain of a mere dispute between petitioner No.4 and the

above said banks. The mere fact that the banks which are already
 KL,J 36 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch under stress to clear the NPAs from their books accepted the OTS,

will not absolve the petitioners from criminal charges. The Apex

Court in the above said judgments categorically held that in economic

offences, it is not proper for the High Court to exercise its inherent

powers under Section - 482 of the Cr.P.C to quash the FIRs/charge

sheets. It is nothing but stalling investigation / enquiry initiated by the

Authorized Officer under the provisions of PMLA. 51 The Apex Court, in a recent judgment in Sau. Kamal

Shivaji Pokarnekar v. The State of Maharashtra13 , categorically

held that quashing the criminal proceedings is called for only in a case

where the complaint does not disclose any offence, or is frivolous,

vexatious, or oppressive. If the allegations set out in the complaint do

not constitute the offence of which cognizance has been taken by the

Magistrate, it is open to the High Court to quash the same. It is not

necessary that a meticulous analysis of the case should be done before

the Trial to find out whether the case would end in conviction or

acquittal. If it appears on a reading of the complaint and consideration

of the allegations therein, in the light of the statement made on oath

that the ingredients of the offence are disclosed, there would be no

justification for the High Court to interfere. Defences that may be

available, or facts/aspects which when established during the trial,

may lead to acquittal, are not grounds for quashing the complaint at

the threshold. At that stage, the only question relevant is whether the 13 AIR 2019 SC 847
 KL,J 37 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch averments in the complaint spell out the ingredients of a criminal

offence or not. 52. It is further held that the correctness or otherwise of the

said allegations has to be decided only in the Trial. At the initial stage

of issuance of process it is not open to the Courts to stifle the

proceedings by entering into the merits of the contentions made on

behalf of the accused. Criminal complaints cannot be quashed only on

the ground that the allegations made therein appear to be of a civil

nature. If the ingredients of the offence alleged against the accused are

prima facie made out in the complaint, the criminal proceeding shall

not be interdicted. 53. In view of the above said authoritative pronouncement of

law, coming to the facts of the case on hand, as discussed supra, there

are specific allegations against the petitioners herein. The modus

operandi adopted by the petitioners is also specifically mentioned in

the complaints as stated above. 54. At the cost of repetition, it is once again reiterated that

prima facie it appears that the petitioners are economic offenders.

The crimes are at investigation stage. The Investigating Officer of

Central Bureau of Investigation is collecting the evidence and he has

to record the statements of witnesses including the material witnesses.

The Enforcement Directorate is conducting only investigation and it

has to proceed further in accordance with the provisions of the PMLA. KL,J 38 Crl.P. No.3966 of 2020 & batch ECIR cannot be equated with FIR. The petitioners herein whom

summons under Section - 50 of the PMLA were served cannot be

treated as accused. 55. Considering the said aspects, and also the seriousness of

the offences committed by the petitioners and also the modus

operandi adopted by them, this Court is not inclined to quash the

above said FIRs and the ECIR / Summons issued by the Enforcement

Directorate. Therefore, all the Criminal Petitions lack merit and the

same are liable to be dismissed. 56. Accordingly, the Criminal Petitions are dismissed. The

interim orders passed by this Court on 15.09.2020 in Crl.P.Nos.3966

and 3982 of 2020 and on 19.10.2020 in I.A.No.2 of 2020 in Crl.P.

No.4272 of 2020 stand vacated. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in all the

Criminal Petitions shall stand closed. __________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J
Date:22.12.2020

Note: