2025:HHC:7189

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PR ADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr. Revision No. 146 of 2017
 Reserved on: 10.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 22 .03.2025

 State Bank of India ...Petitioner
 Versus

 M/s Aman Enterprises and others
 ...Respon den ts

 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting? 1 Yes
 For the Petitioner : Mr. A rvind Sharma, Advocate.
 For the Respondents : Mr Karan Singh Kanwar,
 Advocate for Respon den t No.1. None for respondent No.2. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present revision petition is directed against the

 order dated 17.04.2017 passed by learned Judicial Magistrate,

 First Class, Nahan District Sirmour, H.P. vide which the

 petitioner (accused be fore learned Tria l Court) was ordered to b e

 summon ed for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (for short IPC ). (The parties

 shall hereinafter be re ferred to in the same manner as they were

 arrayed before the learned Trial Court for convenience). 1 W hether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed t o s ee t he judgm ent? Yes . 2 2025:HHC:7189 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that the complainant filed a complaint before the

learned Trial Court for the commission of an offence punishable

unde r Section 420 of IPC. It was asserted that the accused

published a Sale Notice in the newspaper on 19.08.2016 that the

property situated at Village Moginand, Teh sil Nah an, in the

name of M/S Sanbro Compressor Ltd. was to be auctioned on

24.09.2015 under Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial

Assets and Enforceme nt of Security Interest Act, 2002 (for short SARFAESI Act ). The officials of the ban k disclosed that the

property was free from all encumbrances except the bank loan.

The complainant depo sited a sum of ₹53,90,000/- on

24.09.2015, and a sale certificate was issued in his favour on

06.10 .2015. The complainant submitted necessary documents

before the authorities and found that permiss ion under Section

118 of the H.P. Tenancy & Land Reforms Act was required, and

the dues of the Excise Department were pending against M/S

Sunbro Compressors Limited. The accused played a fraud by

concealing the facts in their knowledge, and the complainant

was led to deposit ₹53,90,000/- in the auction. Hence, the

complaint was filed fo r taking action against the accused. 3 2025:HHC:7189 3. The learned Trial Court recorded the preliminary

evidence of the complainant and found sufficient reasons to

summon the accused. 4. Being aggrieved from the order passed by the learned

Trial Court, the accused has filed the present petition for

quashing the complaint and summoning order. It was asserted

that a complaint was filed for taking action against the accused

unde r Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. Learne d Trial Court erred in

taking cognisance of the same and issuing summons to the

accused. The en try in the name of the Excise Department was

stray. The property never remained with the Excise & Taxation

Department as a security. It was a secured asset with the

petitioner/accused. Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act overrides the

provisions of other laws, and the question of the lien of the

Excise & Tax ation department does not arise. No action could be

taken against the officers of the bank as per Section 32 of the

SARFAESI Act. The sale was made to recover the public money.

Learne d Trial Cou rt passed a non-speaking order while

summon ing the accused. The refore, it was prayed that the

present petition be allowed and the proceedings pending before

the learned Trial Court be quashed. 2025:HHC:7189 5. I have heard Mr. Arvind Sharma, learned counsel for

the petitioner and Mr. Karan Singh Kanwar, Advocate, for

respondent No.1 6. Mr Arvind Sharma, learne d counsel for the

petitioner, submitted that no case was made out against the

accused for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 420 of IPC. The complainant annexed an advertisement

reg arding the e-auction containing the conditions. Those

conditions were not communicated to the complainant. Since it

was an e-auction, therefore, the plea that officials of the bank

disclosed the property to be free from all encumbrances is not

correct. The right of a secured creditor prevails over the right of

any unsecured creditor, and there was no misrepresentation.

Hence, he prayed that the present petition be allowed and that

the proceedings pending against the petitioner be set aside. He

relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Ramesh Kumar Bung & Ors vs Sta te of Telangana & Anr SLP (Crl. No.13762 and judgment of this Cou rt in State of H.P. & Ors. Vs.

State Bank of India & Another in LPA No. 156 of 2021, along with

connected matters in support of his submission. 5 2025:HHC:7189 7. Mr Karan Singh Kanwar, learned counsel for

respondent No.1, submitted that the complainant categorically

stated on oath that bank offic ials had told him that the property

was free from all encumbrances. This was a misstateme nt, and

the complainant was led to purchase the property because of the

misstatement. The accused was aware of the entry in favour of

the Excise & Tax ation Departmen t an d was bound to disclose the

same to the complainant at the time of the e-auction, failure to

do so amounts to fraud . Hence, he prayed that the present

petition be dismissed. 8 I have given considerable tho ugh t to the submissions

made at the bar an d have gone through the records carefully. 9. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Malkeet Singh Gill v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2022) 8 SCC 204: "10. Before adverting to the merits of the c ontentions, at
 the outset, it is apt to mention that there are c oncurrent
 findings of conviction arrived at by two courts after a
 detailed appreciation of the material and evidence 6 2025:HHC:7189

 brought on record. The High Court in criminal revision
 against conviction is not supposed to exercise the
 jurisdiction like to the appellate court and the scope of
 interference in revision is extremely narrow. Section 397 of the Criminal Procedure Code (in short " CrPC ") vests
 jurisdiction to satisfy itself or himself as to the
 correctness , legality or propriety of any finding, sentence
 or order, recorded or passed, and as to the regularity of
 any proceedings of such inferior court. The object of the
 provision is to set right a patent defect or an error of
 jurisdiction or law. There has to be a well-founded error
 which is to be determined on the merits of individual
 cases. It is also well settled that while considering the
 same, the Revisional Court does not dwell at length upon
 the facts and evidence of the case to reverse those
 findings. 10. This position was reite rated in State of Gujarat v.

Dilipsinh Kishorsinh Rao , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 129 4 wherein it was

observed: 11. The present revision has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8 2025:HHC:7189 12. The complainant has relied upon auction notice

(Ext.CW-1/B) in which it was men tioned that the sale of

moveable and immovable property mortgage d to a bank under

the provisions of SARFAESI will be done through an e-auction

provided at the Web Portal. The last date of submission of the

EMD & Documents (online) was mentioned as 22.09.2015 at 4:00

p.m and the hard copy to be submitted on 21.09.2015 at 4:00 p.m.

It was fu rther mentioned that the sale notice published in the

newspapers named Indian Express and Amar Ujala, dated

19.08.2015, was to be referred for the terms and conditions of

the auction. Significantly, the sale notice dated 19.08.2015 was

not produced on record. Since the e-auction of the property was

to be held on the web Portal, the plea that the bank officials had

disclosed the property to be free from all encumbrances at the

time of auction is not acceptable. 13. It was submitted that the bank was bound to disclose

the details of the encumbrances, and failure to do so amounts to

cheating. This submission is not acceptable. It was laid down in Bishan Das v. King-Emperor , 1905 SCC OnLine All 43, that the

failure to disclose the encumbrances by the vendor does not

amount to cheating. It was ob served:- It might be thought at first sight that the illustration
appended to section 415 is opposed to the view s et forth
above, but the case contemplated in that illustration is
clearly distinguishable. The illustration referred to deals 10 2025:HHC:7189

with the case of a person selling or mortgaging an estate
which he has previously sold and conveyed away. In that
case, a person who knows that he has no right left to a
property deals with it as if he had, his conduct amounts to
a representation that he had a subsisting right in the
estate, although he well knows that he has not. In the case
before me, the seller still owned an interest, viz, the
equity of redemption in the property, which he conveyed
to the c omplainant. For all that he knew to the contrary,
the vendee might have been aware, at the time of his
purchase, that the property he bought was under a
mortgage. I have no hesitation in holding that the
dishonest concealment of facts referred to in the
Explanation to section 415 is a dishonest concealment of
facts, which it is the duty of the person c oncealing them
to disclose to the person with whom he is dealing. The
Magistrate, in his judgment, argues that it is not
necessary that wrongful gain or wrongful loss should
have been caused, inasmuch as the conduct of the
defendant, if not dishonest, was, at least, fraudulent. If
the applicant refrained from disclosing the existence of
the encumbrance, his conduct might be immoral, but it
would not, in my opinion, be fraudulent any more than
would the c onduct of the seller of a h orse, who, knowing
that the h orse had a splint did not disclose the existence
of the s plint to a purchaser. O f course, I refer to a c ase in
which the vendor has not actively deceived the purchaser
by representing the horse to be sound. Illustration (a) of section 17 of the Contract Act is as follows:-- A sells, by
auction, to B, a horse which A knows to be unsound. A
says nothing to B about the horse's soundness. This is not
a fraud of A. The same is the law in England. In the case
of Horsfall v. Thomas [31 L.J., Exch, 322, S.C. 1 H, and C., 90.], BRAMWELL, J. says, "The fraud must be committed by
the affirmance of something, not true within the
knowledge of the affirmer, or by the suppression of
something, which is true and which it was his duty to
make." When there is a c oncealment of fact, I am of the
opinion that there is neither fraud nor dishonesty, within 11 2025:HHC:7189

 the meaning of the criminal law, unless there is a duty
 imposed by law, as between the accused and the person
 with whom he is dealing to make that fact known. For the
 above reason, I quash the conviction of the applicant,
 Bishan Das, under section 417 of the Penal Code, 1860.
 The fine, if paid, must be refunded. 14. This position was reiterated in Karachi Municipality v.

Bhojraj, 1915 SCC OnLine Sind JC 6 wherein it was observed- 2. The cheating must refer to some false representation
 which induced the Municipality to agree to buy the land. 3. As to such representation there is only the evidence of
 one witness , the land clerk, and as he is not supported by
 the correspondence, I think the Magistrate was right not
 to act upon his evidence. Mr. Rupchand refers to
 illustration (1) to S. 415, but that refers to a case where the
 seller has no title and his conduct in selling amounts to
 deception. That is not the case here. The law on this point
 is, I think, c orrectly stated in the c ase of Emperor v. Bishen
 Das [(1905) 27 All 561.]. 15. Madhya Pradesh High Court also took a similar v iew

in Nandram v. Ganesh Narain, 1934 SCC OnLine MP 6 4, wherein it

was ob served:- applicant, the applicant cannot be said to have
 committed any deception leading to cheating as defined
 in S. 415, Penal Code, 1860." 2025:HHC:7189 16. A similar view was taken in Pandit Shivnath Sahibram

Kaul v. Jethanand Moorijmal Bhagnari, 1936 SCC OnLine Sind JC

89, wherein it was observed:- 17. Therefore, the preponderant view is that a vendor is

not supposed to disclose the encumbrance on the property

unless specifically asked for. Since, in the present case, an e-

auction was conducted, there was no question of making an

inquiry or giv ing a reply. Thus, the failure to mention the

encumbrances will not constitute cheating . 18. The learne d Trial Court was persuaded to hold that

the bank was aware of the fact that the property was

encumbered with the Excise and Taxation Departmen t, as the

bank had given the reply to the letter returned by the

departmen t. However, the learned Trial Court did not consider

the fact whether the bank was duty-bound to disclose the

encumbrance to the purchaser. Hence, the order passed by the

learned Trial Court cann ot be sustained. 19. It has been held that the bank was not bound to

disclose the facts regarding encumbrance; therefore, the 14 2025:HHC:7189

question whether the right of the bank will prevail over the

rights of the Excise & Taxation Department and whethe r the sale

was made in good faith do not arise and need not be gone into. 20. Consequently, the present petition is allowed and the

complaint pending before the learned Trial Court qua the

petitione r is ordered to be quashe d. 21 The present petition is disposed of in aforesaid

terms, so also pe nding application(s), if an y. 22. A copy of this judgment along with the record of the

learned Trial Court be sen t back forthwith.