03.07.2023
Order No. 03. 1. This matter is taken up through Hybrid
 Arrangement (Virtual /Physical Mode). 2. This is a bail application U/ S.439 of Cr.P.C. by
 the petitioner for grant of bail in connection with Cyber
 Crime & Economic Offence, Balasore P.S. Case No.2 of
 2023 arising out of C.T. Case No.53 of 2023 pending in
 the file of learned S.D.J.M., Balasore for commission of
 offence punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 465 of IPC
 read with Section 66(C) / 66(D) of I.T. Act, but
 subsequently charge-sheeted for commission of
 offences punishable under Sections 419 / 420 / 465 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120(B) of IPC read with Section
 66(C) / 66(D) of I.T. Act, on the main allegation of
 collecting money from the people to supply fake fancy
 SIM cards and, accordingly, persuading general public
 to deposit Rs.1,37,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Thirty-
 seven Thousand) in the account of informant and Page 1 of 4 receiving such money through Phonepe app
transaction. 3. In the course of hearing of the bail application,
Mr. A.R. Panda, learned counsel for the petitioner by
filing the certified copy of the charge-sheet, submits
that although there is allegation against the petitioner
for committing financial fraud, but the same is for a
paltry amount of Rs.1,37,000/- (Rupees One Lakh
Thirty-seven Thousand) and, in the meanwhile, the
petitioner has already been detained in custody since
23.01.2023 and after completion of investigation, the
IO has already submitted charge-sheet in this case and
there remains nothing to detain the petitioner further in
judicial custody. Accordingly, Mr. A.R. Panda, learned
counsel prays to grant bail to the present petitioner. 4. On the contrary, Mrs. S.R. Sahoo, learned ASC,
however, strongly opposes the bail application of the
petitioner and she submits that there is a prima facie
case against the present petitioner. 5. After having considered the rival submissions
made and taking into consideration the nature and
gravity of accusations raised against the petitioner and
keeping in view the nature and strength of supporting
materials available on record and regard being had to
the pre trial detention of the petitioner since
23.01.2023 with submission of charge-sheet and on
going through the materials placed on record and there
being no criminal antecedent reported against the
petitioner, this Court admits the petitioner to bail. 6. Hence, the bail application of the petitioner
stands allowed and the petitioner is allowed to go on
bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees
Twenty Five Thousand) with two solvent sureties each
for the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned
Court in seisin of the case on such terms and conditions
as deem fit and proper by it with following conditions:- The I.I.C. of Jurisdictional Police Station shall
not detain the petitioner unnecessarily after recording
his attendance beyond the time as stipulated. It is clarified that the Court in seisin of the case
will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the petitioner
without further reference to this Court, if any of the
above conditions are violated or a case for cancellation Page 3 of 4 of bail is otherwise made out. In the wake of aforesaid,
 the subsequent involvement of the petitioner in future
 for grave and serious offences on prima facie
 accusations may be treated as a ground for cancellation
 of bail in this case. 7. Accordingly, the BLAPL stands disposed of. 8. Issue urgent certified copy of the order as per
 Rules. (G. Satapathy)
 Judge

 Subhasmita Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SUBHASMITA DAS Designation: Jr.Stenographer Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa Date: 04-Jul-2023 18:07:00 Page 4 of 4