Information Technology, and globalization have

revolutionized our lives. The introduction of e-commerce, of

e-governance, of e-banking, of telemarketing, have transformed our

world. The taxi sector, in the urban transportation system, is a

glaring example of the phenomenal changes brought by

information technology and globalization. Gone are the days of

endlessly waiting for a taxi to catch. At a click of a button, taxis

can be called for anytime and anywhere. Through the use of

downloaded software, a passenger can specify not only the kind of

taxi he/she requires, but can also choose the kind of driver he/she

prefers. The days of 'hail and ply taxis' are over; the days of radio

taxis seem to be numbered. However, globalization has introduced

cut throat competition, as multi-national companies are

threatening the very existence of the indigenous companies. The 7 rapid spread of information technology, the extensive reach of

globalization are, thus, a boon and a bane for the people at large. 2. A few astray incidents in taxis, supplied by technological

transport service provider, otherwise called "aggregator", in few

parts of the country, and the threat posed by new players has

alerted the government to a perceived danger: the emergence of

"the aggregator". Such new breed of taxi providers need to be

regulated as much as the brick and mortar taxis. An advisory

issued by the Central Government, dated 08.10.2015, a direction

issued by the Karnataka High Court in the case of B. G. Lingaraju

@ B. G. Shivanna and Another v. Government of Karnataka

and Others [ (W.P.Nos.2178-2179/2015) decided on 20.01.2015]

convinced the State Government to go into the fast lane, and to

frame the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology

Aggregators Rules, 2016 ('the Aggregator Rules', for short). 3. However, the implementation of the Aggregator Rules has

disturbed the lives of many: of the taxi drivers and the taxi permit

holders whose taxis are being seized by the overzealous traffic

police, the multi-national companies, like Uber, whose functioning 8 is being questioned and controlled, and the start-ups whose entry

into the lucrative business of taxi sector it being thwarted.

Questioning the constitutional validity of the Aggregator Rules,

these stakeholders have approached this court. 4. But the threat of growing influence of Uber Company, in

the world of taxi transportation, has convinced its business rivals,

like ANI Technologies Private Limited (the operator of OLA Cabs),

and the Association of Radio Taxis, to implead themselves, as

party- respondents, in the writ petitions filed by the Uber Company

and others. The impleaded respondents have supported the State

in defending the constitutionality of the Aggregator Rules. 5. A large number of writ petitions have been filed before this

court. Since all these writ petitions revolve around the

constitutional validity of the Aggregator Rules, and few other

issues, they are being decided by this common order. 6. The facts are being taken from Uber India Technologies

Pvt. Ltd., and Another v. State of Karnataka and Others,

(Writ Petition Nos.31673-31674/2016). 7. According to the petitioners, petitioner No.1, Uber India

Technologies Pvt. Ltd., is a registered company under the Companies Act, 1956 ; its registered office is in Delhi. Meanwhile,

the Petitioner No.2, Uber B.V. is a company incorporated under the

laws of Kingdom of Netherlands; its registered office is in

Amsterdam, Netherlands. 8. In 2010, the Uber Technologies Inc, a USA based

company, created a "Uber Platform", a mobile phone based

technology that provides a software programme on smart phones

which can be utilised by passengers seeking a taxi ride, and by taxi

drivers seeking a passenger. This programme connects the

passenger to the driver in real time. Thus, through the Uber

Platform a passenger can request a taxi to be provided with a

driver, to be hired for point-to-point transport, for payment of a

fare. 9. Since its inception in 2010, the Uber Company has spread

its operation through forty countries, including India. In August,

2013, the petitioner No.2 launched the Uber Platform in India.

Presently the Uber Platform is actively used in various Indian cities

including Bengaluru. 10. In order to ensure compliance of law, to ensure greater

integrity of the Transportation Technology Aggregator Platforms, to

ensure operation of the said platforms, and to ensure the safety of

the passengers, on 09.02.2016, the respondent No.1, the State of

Karnataka, circulated a draft of the proposed Aggregator Rules to

govern the functioning of the aggregators. The State sought the

comments from different stakeholders with regard to the said Draft

Rules. Since the petitioner No.1 was engaged in the business of

providing such a transport technology platform, on 25.02.2016, it

submitted its detailed objections. However, according to the

petitioners, without considering and examining the objections

raised by the petitioners and others, on 02.04.2016, the State

notified the Aggregator Rules. 11. Since some of the provisions of the Aggregator Rules

imposed onerous and vicarious liabilities on the petitioners, on

05.04.2016, the petitioner No.1 filed a representation before the

Principal Secretary to the Government, Transport Department,

seeking certain clarifications with respect to the Aggregator Rules.

Thereafter, on 18.04.2016, the petitioner submitted its application

for seeking a licence under the Aggregator Rules. However, instead 11 of giving a satisfactory response to the clarification sought by the

petitioner No.1, on 23.04.2016, the petitioner was served with a

notice from respondent No.2, the Commissioner for Transport,

whereby the Commissioner directed the petitioner No.1 to comply

with the Aggregator Rules, and directed them to obtain a licence,

failing which penal action would be taken against the petitioner

No.1 under Section 93 of the Motor Vehicles Act ("the Act" for

short). 12. After the petitioner No.1 filed its application for seeking

the licence, the respondent No.2 sought several documents from

the petitioner No.1. By letter dated 03.05.2016, the petitioner No.1

informed the respondent No.2 that they are in the process of

collecting the documents. Eventually, on 18.05.2016, the

petitioner submitted the required documents to the Regional

Transport Authority. 13. Meanwhile, many taxi drivers, and taxi permit holders

informed the petitioners that their taxis were being impounded for

alleged violation of the Aggregator Rules. According to the

petitioners, there were also media reports that the petitioners may 12 be asked by the Government to close down their operations in the

State. Therefore, the officers of petitioner No.1 met the officers of

respondent No.2 and enquired about the status of their application

for licence, and about the information they had received from the

taxi drivers, taxi permit holders, and the media. 14. According to the petitioners, instead of giving any

satisfactory clarification, the respondent No.2 continued to

impound the taxis, and continued to inform the media that

petitioner No.1 was not co-operating with the Regional Transport

Authority. Since such adverse publicity affected both the goodwill

and the operation of the petitioners' business, on 23.05.2016, the

petitioner No.1 wrote to the respondent No.2, and to the Joint

Commissioner for Transport requesting them to issue the licence

under the Aggregator Rules as soon as possible. 15. Consequently, the officers of respondent No.2 visited the

office of petitioner No. 1, and demanded more documents from it

dealing with the residency of the taxi drivers, and with their

criminal record, if any, for the last seven years. Since these

documents were difficult to procure for the petitioner No.1, as the 13 drivers are not its employees, on 26.05.2016, the petitioner No. 1

sought further clarifications from the respondent No.2. However,

according to the petitioners, so far, no clarification has been issued

by respondent No.2. 16. To add insult to injury, on 29.05.2016, the respondent

No.2 announced that the drivers who do not have a driving license

issued by the State of Karnataka, they would not be permitted to

drive their taxis. Although under the Act a driving licence issued is

valid all over the country, but the officers of Respondent No.2

insisted that the licence has to be issued by the State of

Karnataka. This extra requirement was imposed under the garb of

the Aggregator Rules. Since many drivers did not hold a driving

licence from the Karnataka Government, their taxis were

impounded by the officers of respondent No.2. Due to the action of

respondent No.2, the taxi drivers went on strike and started

picketing. This adversely affected the petitioners' business. Such a

situation lead to a war of words between the respondent No.2, and

the taxi drivers, the taxi permit holders, and the petitioners.

Hence, these writ petitions before this court filed by the taxi

drivers, the taxi permits holders, and the petitioner Company. 14 17. The petitioner Company has not only challenged the

constitutional validity of the Aggregator Rules, but has also

challenged the notice dated 23.04.2016. Likewise, the Taxi drivers

and the permit holders have not only confined themselves to

challenging the constitutional validity of the Aggregator Rules, but

have also challenged the illegal seizure of their taxis by the officers

of Respondent No. 2. 18. But before recording the contentions raised by the

parties, in order to better understand the controversy, it would be

apposite to briefly describe and quote the relevant provisions of the

Aggregator Rules which are under challenge before this court. 19. The preamble of the Aggregator Rules clearly reveals

that in order to ensure the compliance of the law, and the safety of

the passengers, in order to ensure greater integrity of process and

operation of the On-demand Transportation Technology Aggregator

Platforms, the Rules were promulgated by the Government for

these purposes. 20. The preamble further claims that since Section 93 of the

Act requires that, any person engaged in soliciting any customer is 15 required to obtain a licence from the appropriate authority, such

licence shall be subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by

the State Government. Therefore, while invoking its powers under Sections 93 , 95 (1) and 96 (1) read with Section 212 of the Act, the

Government has promulgated the Aggregator Rules. 21. The Rules shall apply to the aggregators operating in the

State of Karnataka and shall come into force from the date of their

publication in the Official Gazette i.e., from 02.04.2016. Rule 2 (2) of the Aggregator Rules defines the word

"Aggregator" as under:- 'Aggregator' means a person who is an
 aggregator or operator or an intermediary/market
 place who canvasses or solicits or facilitates
 passengers for travel by a taxi and who connects
 the passenger/intending passenger to a driver of a
 taxi through phone calls, internet, web-based services
 or GPS/GPRS based services whether or not any fare,
 fee, commission, brokerage or other charges are
 collected for providing such services. Rule 2 (7) defines the word "Taxi" as being "a motor cab

having a seating capacity not exceeding six passengers excluding

the Driver with public service permit on contract." 16 Rule 2 (8) clearly lays down that words and expressions used

in these Rules, and not defined herein shall have the same

meaning assigned to them in the Act and the Karnataka Motor

Vehicle Rules, 1989, ( "the KMV Rules" for short). Rule 3 clearly states that "No person shall act or permit any

other person to act as an aggregator unless he holds an effective

licence issued to him under these Rules." Rule 5 prescribes the profiles of the aggregator. According to

Rule 5, the applicant may be an individual or a Company or a

Partnership firm. Secondly, the applicant shall not only comply

with the rules and regulations prescribed under the Act, but also

comply with the Information Technology Act, 2000 , including the

intermediary guidelines. Rule 5 (3) is as under:- Rule 7 prescribes the vehicle profile and deals with the

conditions which a vehicle should satisfy before it can be

logged on to the Platform provided by the aggregator. Rule 7 is as under:- (b) Have a display board inside the Taxi containing
 vehicle permit and the driver's details such as
 photograph, name, Driving Licence and badge 18 particulars and ID card issued by police authorities.
 The display board shall be clearly visible to the
 passengers in the taxi. (c) Be capable of being tracked continuously with
 GPS/GPRS facility with a provision of a panic button
 for the use of the passengers, capable of alerting the
 control room of aggregator as well as local Police
 without any hindrance or interference by the driver. (d) Be fitted with single integrated GPS/GPRS capable
 vehicle tracking unit with Printer, display panel and
 digital fare meter, as per the specifications detailed
 in Appendix-II, capable of generating a printed receipt
 to be given to the passengers. (e) Be fitted with an yellow coloured display board with
 words "Taxi" visible both from the front and the rear.
 The board shall be capable of being illuminated
 during the night hours. Rule 8 lays down the qualifications of a driver. It is as

under:- (c) He shall be a resident of Karnataka for a minimum
 period of two years. (d) He shall have a working knowledge of Kannada
 and any one other language, preferably English. (e) He shall be of a good moral character without any
 criminal record. (f) He shall be a holder of KYC compliance bank
 account in accordance with the norms prescribed by
 Reserve Bank of India. (2) The driver of a Taxi shall behave in a civil and
orderly manner with the passengers or intending
passengers and shall not give room for any complaints
from them and shall not indulge in any touting activities
or force or compel customers to use his services. (3) The driver of a taxi shall not have been
convicted within the past seven years, for the offence of
driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, or any
cognizable offence under the Criminal Procedure Code ,
1973, including fraud, sexual offences, use of a motor
vehicle to commit a cognizable offence, a crime involving 20 property damage or theft, acts of violence, or acts of
 terror. Rule 9 fixes the rate of hire and prescribes that "the fare

including any of the charges, if any, shall not be higher than the fare

fixed by the Government from time to time". It further lays down

that "No passenger shall be charged for dead mileage and the fare

shall be charged only from the point of Boarding to the point of

Alighting". Rule 10, on the other hand, prescribe the general conditions

to be observed by a Licensee i.e., the aggregator. The said rule is

as under:- (Central Act No.27 of 1961) j) periodically check and maintain a register
regarding the details of all the documents of all taxies
at his command. k) ensure that all the taxies at his command
maintain uninterrupted contact with the control room.
The control room shall be in a position to monitor the
movements of all the vehicles at his command. l) ensure adequate mechanism for receiving
passengers feedback and grievances. This may be
ensured through feedback register kept in the taxi,
easily accessible to the passengers always and also by
providing toll free phone numbers. m) ensure that the grievances or complaints of
passengers or any other persons received by him shall
be attended by the grievance officer appointed by him 24 and they must be made available to the inspecting
authorities on demand. n) provide the taxies covered with a permit issued
under section 74 or under sub- section (8) of Section 88 of the Act as petitioner the requirement of the
passengers. o) ensure that the vehicles entered in his licence do
not operate independently or accept booking directly. p) give liberty to the permit holder who is in
operation under his company to operate his vehicle
simultaneously with any other aggregator as per his
discretion. q) ensure that the taxi service is available all the
time 24 X 7 without any interruption. r) on termination or end of the agreement with
permit holder, remove all the equipments or brand
stickers and confiscate the identity card or
authorization issued to the driver. s) maintain a web portal containing all details
regarding the owners of the vehicles, services offered,
fare structure, insurance liabilities, control room
number, name and contact details of a duly appointed
grievance redressal officer. t) send photo of the driver along with vehicle
registration number and other details of the driver to the
customer's mobile before boarding. u) publish beforehand its policy on taxi fare,
registration of taxis and drivers with its platform or app,
sharing of fares with taxi owners and / or drivers,
safety of passengers, grievance redressal mechanism
for passengers etc. v) store datas of all passengers and drivers travelled
in their vehicles up to one year and make them
available to the inspecting authorities on demand. 2) If the licencee uses or causes or allows a Taxi to
be used in any manner not authorized by the permit or
provisions mentioned herein, the licencee and the driver
shall be jointly and severally responsible for such
defaults and for payment of penalty under the
provisions of the Act and Rules. 3) If any untoward incident occurs during the
course of a ride, the licencee shall inform the same to
the licensing authority as well a to the jurisdictional
police immediately. 4) The licensing authority may, after notice of not
less than 30 days to the licencee, vary any conditions or
may add fresh conditions. Rule 11 grants power to the Licensing Authority to suspend

or cancel the Licence. It is as follows :- Rule 12 grants the right to file an appeal. It is as under:- (2) An appeal shall be in the form of a
 memorandum in duplicate setting forth the grounds for
 the appeal and shall be accompanied by the requisite
 fee and the certified copy of the order passed by the
 licensing authority. Rule 14 prescribes the security deposit which needs to be

submitted by the Licensee. It is as follows:- Condition No. 2 (e) defines the word "Operator" as meaning

"the owner of one or more motor cab either owned or leased over to

him who is part of a wireless network registered under this scheme." Condition No.3 prescribes the general conditions to be

observed by the Operator. Condition No.3 (iii) of the CTS Scheme

stipulates that the motor cab City Taxi Services shall be available

throughout day and night (24 Hours). Condition No.4 deals with registration. It lays down that the

persons who are holders of permit granted by the Regional

Transport Authority for running a City Taxi shall be eligible under

the Scheme. Secondly, those permit holders who wish to be an

operator under the Scheme shall intimate the Regional Transport

Authority, who has issued his permit about the starting of his

business under the Scheme. Condition No.6 (2) prescribes the qualification of a driver and

is as under: Section 2 of the Act defines different terminologies which are

used in the Act. While Section 2 (28) of the Act defines the words

"motor vehicle" or "vehicle", Section 2 (7) of the Act defines the term

"contract carriages". According to the definition, it means "a motor

vehicle which carries a passenger or passengers for hire or reward 32 and is engaged under contract, whether expressive or implied for the

use of such vehicle as a whole for the carriage of passengers

mentioned therein and entered into by a person with a holder of a

permit in relation to such vehicle or any person authorised by him in

this behalf on a fixed or agreed rate or sum on a time basis, whether

or not with reference any route or distance or from one point to

another." "Contract Carriage" shall include a maxi cab or a motor

cab. Section 2 (25) of the Act defines the word "motor cab" as

meaning, "any motor vehicle constructed or adopted to carry not

more than six passengers excluding the driver for hire or reward". Section 2 (35) of the Act further defines the term "Public

Service Vehicle" as under:- Section 3 imposes a prohibition that no person shall drive a

motor vehicle unless he holds an effective driving licence issued to

him authorising him to drive the vehicle. Thus, Section 3 makes it

absolutely imperative for a driver to have a driving licence. Section 9 deals with the grant and refusal of driving licence. Section 9 (4) imposes a pre-requisite condition upon drivers of a

transport vehicle that he must possess such minimum educational

qualification as may be prescribed by the Central Government and

a Driving Certificate issued by the School or Establishment

referred to in Section 12 of the Act. On the other hand, Section 9 (8) of the Act grants the power

to the licensing authority to refuse to grant the licence if the

licensing authority is satisfied that the applicant is a habitual

criminal or a habitual drunkard; or is a habitual addict to any

narcotic drug or psychotropic substance within the meaning of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act ; or is a person 34 whose licence to drive any motor vehicle has, at any time earlier,

been revoked. Chapter V of the Act deals with Control of Transport

Vehicles. Section 66 of the Act necessitates the taking of a Permit.

The relevant portion of Section 66 is as under:- Section 75 of the Act deals with scheme for renting of motor

cabs and is as under:- (2) A scheme made under sub-section (1) may
 provide for all or any of the following matters, namely;- 39 (a) licensing of operators under the scheme
including grant, renewal and revocation of such
licences; (b) form of application and form of licences and
the particulars to be contained therein; (c) fee to be paid with the application for such
licences; (d) the authorities to which the application shall
be made; (e) condition subject to which such licences may
be granted, renewed or revoked; (f) appeals against orders of refusal to grant or
renew such licences and appeals against orders
revoking such licences; (g) conditions subject to which motor cabs may be
rented; (h) maintenance of records and inspection of such
records; (i) such other matters as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of this section, 40 Section 84 prescribes the general conditions attached to all

the permits. It is as under:- (b) that the vehicle to which the permit relates is
 not driven at a speed exceeding the speed permitted
 under this Act ; (c) that any prohibition or restriction imposed any
 fares or freight fixed by notification made under section
 67 are observed in connection with the vehicle to which
 the permit relates ; (d) that the vehicle to which the permit relates is
 not driven in contravention of the provisions of section 5 or section 113 ; (e) that the provisions of this Act limiting the
 hours of work of drivers are observed in connection with
 any vehicle or vehicles to which the permit relates; 41 (f) that the provisions of Chapter X, XI and XII so
 far as they apply to the holder of the permit are
 observed ; and (g) that the name and address of the operator
 shall be painted or otherwise firmly affixed to every
 vehicle to which the permit relates on the exterior of the
 body of that vehicle on both sides thereof in a colour or
 colours vividly contrasting to the colour of the vehicle
 centered as high as practicable below the window line
 in bold letters. Section 85 of the Act clearly stipulates that "every permit

issued under this Act shall be complete in itself and shall contain all

the necessary particulars of the permit and the condition attached

thereto." Section 88 is essential for the decision of this case. Section

88 of the Act deals with validation of permits for use outside region

in which the permit is granted. The relevant extract is as under:- section (1), but subject to any rules that may be made
under this Act by the Central Government, the Regional
Transport Authority of any one region or, as the case
may be, the State Transport Authority, may, for the
convenience of the public, grant a special permit to any
public service vehicle including any vehicle covered by
a permit issued under section 72 ( including a reserve
stage carriage) or under section 74 or under subsection
(9) of this section for carrying a passenger or
passengers for hire or reward under a contract,
express or implied, for the use of the vehicle as a whole
without stopping to pick up or set down along the line
of route passengers not included in the contract, and in
every case where such special permit is granted, the
Regional Transport Authority shall assign to the
vehicle, for display thereon, a special distinguishing
mark in the form and manner specified by the Central
Government and such special permit shall be valid in
any other region or State without the countersignature 44 of the Regional Transport Authority of the other region
or of the State Transport Authority of the other State,
as the case may be. (9) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1) but subject to any rules that may be made
by the Central Government under sub-section (14), any
State Transport Authority may, for the purpose of
promoting tourism, grant permits in respect of tourist
vehicles valid for the whole of India, or in such
contiguous States not being less than three in number
including the State in which the permit is issued as
may be specified in such permit in accordance with the
choice indicated in the application and the provisions of sections 73 , 74 , 80 , 81 , 82 , 83 , 84 , 85 , 86 , [clause (d)
of sub-section (1) of section 87 and section 89 ] shall,
as far as may be, apply in relation to such permits. (11) The following shall be conditions of every
permit granted under subsection (9), namely :- Explanation. - In this section, - (a) "appropriate authority", in relation to a
 national permit, means the authority which is
 authorised under this Act to grant a goods carriage
 permit ; (b) "authorisation fee" means the annual fee, not
 exceeding one thousand rupees, which may be charged
 by the appropriate authority of a State of enable a
 motor vehicle, covered by the permit referred to in
 sub-section (9) and (12) to be used in other States
 subject to the payment of taxes or fees, if any, levied
 by the States concerned ; (c) "national permit" means a permit granted by
 the appropriate authority to goods carriages to operate
 throughout the territory of India or in such contiguous
 States not being less than four in number, including the
 State in which the permit is issued as may be specified
 in such permit in accordance with the choice indicated
 in the application. Section 91 of the Act restricts the hours of working of

drivers. It states that "hours of work of any person engaged for

operating a transport vehicle shall be such as provided in the Motor

Transport Workers Act ." Sub Section 4 further provides that "no

person shall work or shall cause or allow any other person to work 47 outside the hours fixed or recorded for the work of such persons

under Sub Section 3 ." Section 93 of the Act which deals with grant of licence to an

Agent or a Canvasser is crucial for adjudicating this case. It is as

under:- Section 95 of the Act bestows a power on the State

Government to make Rules as to Stage Carriages and Contract

Carriages. It is as under:- On the other hand, Section 96 of the Act empowers the State

to make Rules for the purpose of "this Chapter" i.e. Chapter V of

the Act , which deals with "Control of Transport Vehicle". The

relevant provisions of Section 96 are as under:- Therefore, this court proposes to record the contentions of the

learned counsel for the parties under well defined topics, to deal

with their rival contentions, and to give the reasoning with regard

to each topic in separate segments of the order. 27. But before getting into the contention and counter-

contentions, the first issue to be thrashed out is with regard to the 53 grounds for challenging the constitutional validity of subordinate

legislation. 28. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel, for the

petitioner-Company, pleads that the contours of the grounds for

challenging the constitutionality of subordinate legislation are well

defined. In order to buttress this plea, the learned Senior Counsel

has relied on the cases of State of T. N. and Another v.

P. Krishnamurthy and Others [ (2006) 4 SCC 517 ], and

Supreme Court Employees' Welfare Assn. v Union of India [ (1989) 4 SCC 187 ]. 29. However, on the other hand, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the

learned Additional Advocate General, and Mr. S.S. Naganand, the

learned Senior Counsel for the Association of Radio Taxis, submit

that the scope of judicial review of delegated legislation is

extremely limited. Relying on the cases of Directorate of Film

Festivals and Others v. Gaurav Ashwin Jain and Others [

( 2007) 4 SCC 737], Krishnan Kakkanth v. Government of

Kerala and Others [(1997) 9 SCC 495], and on Centre

for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India [ (2016) 6 SCC 54 408], the learned counsel submit that subordinate legislation

reflects a legislative policy. But the Courts cannot sit as an

Appellate Authority to examine the correctness, suitability and

appropriateness of a policy. The Courts cannot interfere with the

policy either on the ground that it is erroneous, or on the ground

that a better, fairer, wiser alternative is available. Therefore, this

court should stay away from examining the constitutional validity

of the Aggregator Rules. 30. The issue of power of judicial review of subordinate

legislation need not detain us for too long. For, the said issue is no

longer res integra. In the case of P. Krishnamuthy and Others (supra), the Apex Court has opined as under: "There is a presumption in favour of
 constitutionality or validity of a subordinate legislation
 and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that
 it is invalid. It is also well recognised that a subordinate
 legislation can be challenged under any of the following
 grounds: b) Violation of fundamental rights guaranteed
 under the Constitution. c) Violation of any provision of the Constitution. d) Failure to conform to the statute under which it is
 made or exceeding the limits of authority conferred by
 the enabling Act. e) Repugnancy to the laws of the land, that is, any
 enactment. f) Manifest arbitrariness/unreasonableness (to the
 extent where the court might well say that the
 legislature never intended to give authority to make
 such rules). 31. In the case of Supreme Court Employees' Welfare

Assn. (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court had delineated a few

other grounds for challenging the subordinate legislation: "being

manifestly unjust, or oppressive, or outrageous, or directed to be

unauthorised and/ or violative of the general principles of law of the

land, or so vague that it cannot be predicted with certainty as to

what it prohibited or so unreasonable that they cannot be attributed

to the power delegated or otherwise disclosed bad faith." 56 32. In the case of P. Krishnamurthy (supra), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court also opined that "the court considering the validity

of a subordinate legislation, will have to consider the nature, object

and scheme of the enabling Act, and also the area over which power

has been delegated under the Act and then decide whether the

subordinate legislation conforms to the parent statue. Where a rule

is directly inconsistent with a mandatory provision of the statute,

then, of course, the task of the court is simple and easy. But where

the contention is that the inconsistency or non-conformity of the rule

is not with reference to any specific provision of the enabling Act, but

with the object and scheme of the parent Act, the court should

proceed with caution before deciding invalidity." 33. Of course, the learned counsel for the State, and

Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned Senior counsel, have argued that

subordinate legislation being part of legislative policy cannot be

examined by this court, as this court does not sit as an appellate

court over the wisdom of the Executive. However, such a sweeping

statement is untenable. For, when the constitutionality of a

subordinate legislation is called into question, especially on the

grounds mentioned above in the case of P. Krishnamuthy (supra), 57 this court is not sitting as an appellate court. This court, in fact,

sits only as a constitutional court to examine the constitutionality

of the subordinate legislation. While examining the subordinate

legislation under the constitutional microscope, this court is not

concerned with the soundness of the legislative policy. But the

court is concerned only with the constitutional legality of the

subordinate legislation, i.e. if the delegated legislation is well

within the constitutional limits and within the parameter of the

parental Act or not? Therefore, this court cannot afford the luxury

of closing its eyes to the constitutional challenges before it, on the

spacious plea that it cannot sit as an appellate court over

legislative policy. 34. Therefore, the Aggregator Rules would have to be

examined on the touchstone of the tests laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the above mentioned cases. The Aggregator Rules versus the Act: 35. The first salvo of Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior

Counsel, is with regard to the Aggregator Rules being ultra vires

the Act. Firstly, while trying to regulate and control an aggregator, 58 like the petitioner-Company, the State has misunderstood the

character of the aggregator, and its relationship with the permit

holder, the driver, and the passenger. According to the learned

Senior Counsel, an aggregator merely creates a technology based

platform i.e., it creates certain software program which can be

downloaded by the passenger, and the driver of a taxi, on their

respective mobile phones. The software permits the passenger to

register himself/herself on to the Uber Platform. Similarly, the

software also allows a permit holder, and a driver to register

themselves on the platform. As and when a passenger requires a

taxi service, he/she logs on to the platform, and reveals the place

from where he/she needs to be picked up from. The platform,

thereupon, searches for taxis available in the nearby vicinity;

it informs the passengers about the availability of such taxis. The

passenger is free to specify the category of taxi required by him,

and to choose the taxi driver on the basis of his rating. Upon a

choice made by the passenger, the particular taxi, whose details

are sent to the passenger, including the name of the driver, the

make of the taxi, its registration number, its colour reaches the

pickup point. Upon completion of the trip, the passenger can pay 59 the fare either in cash, or by net banking to the driver. Thus,

according to the learned Senior Counsel, an aggregator is merely a

facilitator who connects the passenger to a taxi driver for a taxi

ride, and nothing more. Secondly, according to the Aggregator Rules, they have been

framed by the State under its powers bestowed by Sections 93 , 95

(1) and 96 (1) of the Act. However, the Rules could not be framed

under the said provisions of the Act. For, in order to bring an

entity under the purview of Section 93 of the Act, two ingredients

need to be satisfied: i) the entity has to be either an "agent", or a

"canvasser"; ii) the entity has to be engaged either "in the sale of

tickets for travel by public service vehicles", or "in soliciting

customers for such vehicles". Thus, obviously, the said provision

regulates the activities of only two classes of persons. Moreover,

the activities of an agent, or a canvasser must fall within the

purposes mentioned in the Section. Thus, other activities of an

agent, or a canvasser are not covered under the said provision. Section 93 of the Act does not bestow any power upon the

State to make any Rules beyond the twin categories covered under 60 the said provision. But an aggregator is neither an agent, nor a

canvasser. Relying upon numerous dictionaries and Law Lexicons,

the learned Senior Counsel has emphasised that "to canvass" applies to a person who solicits business on his own behalf,

whereas the word "canvasser" is more commonly applied to a

person canvassing on behalf of an employer, or a principal. In

order to support this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has relied

on the case of Verner Jeffers v. Pinto [ 140 LT 360, 1929, a

decision of Court of Appeal of England]. Furthermore, Section 93 of the Act cannot be interpreted in

a manner so as to include a principal, who canvasses for his own

business, and a canvasser, who canvasses on behalf of an

employer, or a principal. Such an interpretation of Section 93

would violate the architectural structure of the Act. For, Section 61 74 of the Act deals with granting of permit to the owner of the taxi

vehicle. Thus, Section 74 covers the principal. Meanwhile,

Section 93 specifically deals with "an agent" and "a canvasser".

Since the principal is already covered under Section 74 of the Act,

obviously, the word "canvasser" cannot mean a principal who is

canvassing for his own business. Moreover, if the word canvasser

used in Section 93 of the Act were to include the principal, it would

make the issuance of permit under Section 74 of the Act

redundant. It would also lead to an anomalous situation. For, the

principal, i.e., the owner of the taxi, would be required to have a

permit under Section 74 of the Act, and a licence under Section 93 of the Act. An interpretation which makes a provision redundant,

or leads to an anomalous situation should not be accepted by this

court. Moreover, a canvasser generally canvasses on behalf of a

known entity, and in the capacity of an agent. However, an

aggregator does not work for any known entity, since a large

number of permit holders are registered on its platform. At any

given moment of time, the passenger may take a taxi belonging to

anyone of the permit holders who are registered on the aggregator's 62 platform. Thus, the identity of the permit holder is unknown. Most

importantly, the aggregator does not plead with the passenger that

he/she must take a taxi belonging to a particular permit holder. Furthermore, the word "solicit" means "to entreat (a person)

for or to do something; to importune." But, an aggregator does not

go through regions or districts soliciting votes, or orders, or

subscriptions. Similarly, an aggregator does not entreat, or asks

for, or seek a person for, or to do something. An aggregator merely

provides a platform, and facilitates the availability of a taxi service

to the passenger by connecting him/her to a taxi driver. Thus, at

worst, an aggregator is a facilitator. But a facilitator cannot be

covered under Section 93 of the Act. The Aggregator Rules cannot

enlarge the categories contained in Section 93 of the Act from two

to three classes. For a subordinate legislation cannot enlarge the

scope of a provision of a parental Act. The subordinate legislation

has to be within the confines of the parental Act. Since, an

aggregator is not a canvasser, it does not fall within the ambit of Section 93 of the Act. Thus, the State could not have framed the

Aggregator Rules under Section 93 of the Act. Further, Section 93 (2) of the Act enumerates the conditions

which may be imposed in the licence granted to an "agent" or a

"canvasser". Section 93 (2) (f) of the Act uses the words "such other

conditions as may be prescribed by the State Government". The

words "such other conditions" obviously take their colour from the

conditions enumerated in Section 92 (a-e) of the Act. Thus, even Section 93 (2) (f) of the Act bestows a limited power upon the State

to add other conditions in the licence which have not been

enumerated in Section 93 (2) (a-e) of the Act. Hence, Section 93 (2) of the Act does not bestow a power upon the State to frame any

Rules with regard to agent or canvasser. Fourthly, Mr. Poovayya claims that only recently the Motor

Vehicle (Amendment) Bill, 2016 has been introduced in the

Parliament for introducing certain amendments in the Act.

According to him, the Bill proposes to amend Section 93 of the Act

by including a third category, namely "the Aggregator" in the said

provision. Relying on the case of Vodafone International

Holdings BV v. Union of India and Another [ (2012) 6 SCC

613] the learned Senior Counsel submits that since there is a

proposed amendment for including "Aggregator" in Section 93 of 64 the Act, obviously the said category is not included in the present Section 93 of the Act. Therefore, the State could not have exercised

its power under Section 93 of the Act for framing the Aggregators

Rules. Fifthly, although Section 95 of the Act empowers the State to

frame Rules for Contract Carriages, but such Rules must relate to

"the conduct of the passengers in such vehicles". This is amply

clear from the fact that the provision uses the words "Contract

Carriage and the conduct of passengers in such vehicles".

Furthermore, Section 95 (2) of the Act clearly stipulates that such

Rules may be made in relation to specified topics therein. Section

95 (2) (a-i) of the Act enumerate the topics. However, the

Aggregator Rules do not relate to the conduct of the passengers in

a taxi. Thus, the said Rules could not have been formulated under Section 95 of the Act. Furthermore, Section 95 of the Act covers a taxi, since a taxi

is a contract carriage. It further covers the passengers. But an

aggregator can neither be covered under "contract carriages", nor

covered under the word "passengers". For, an aggregator neither 65 owns, nor leases, nor provides a taxi service. Therefore, the power

bestowed by Section 95 of the Act upon the State to frame rules,

cannot be used by the State as a camouflage for framing rules for

the aggregators. To permit the State to do so would tantamount to

permitting the State to indulge in colourable exercise of power. Sixthly, although Section 96 of the Act does bestow power

upon the State Government to make the Rules, but such Rules

must be "for the purpose of this Chapter" meaning thereby only for

the purpose of "control of transport vehicles". Therefore, in case the

Rules travel beyond the purpose of controlling the transport

vehicles, the State cannot claim that the Rules have been created

by invoking its power under Section 96 (1) of the Act. Moreover, even if for the sake of an argument, it is conceded

that the State could frame the Aggregator Rules under Section 96

(2) of the Act, but an aggregator does not fall within the scope of

the word "agent" or "canvasser" used in Section 96 (2) (xxviii) of the

Act. Thus, the State is unjustified in claiming that it has the

power under Section 96 (2) (xxviii) of the Act to frame the

Aggregator Rules. Therefore, the Aggregator Rules are clearly 66 beyond the power of the State to frame the said Rules: the

Aggregator Rules are ultra vires the Act. 36. The salvo fired by Mr. Poovayya has met with a barrage

of submissions submitted by Mr. A.S.Ponnanna, the learned

Additional Advocate General, Mr. D. Ashwathappa, Additional

Government Advocate, Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar,

Mr. S. S. Naganand and Mr. S.P. Shankar, the learned Senior

Counsel, and by Mr. Zeric Dastur and Mr. Faisal Sherwani, the

learned counsel. Instead of individually dealing with the

contentions raised by the learned counsel, in the interest of

brevity, this court records their contentions collectively. Firstly, the learned counsel have argued in unison that the

petitioner, the Uber Company, is not as innocent as it pretends. An

aggregator does not merely provide a "technological platform" for

the permit holders, the drivers and the passengers for registering

themselves onto the platform. But it does much more than that.

According the Memorandum of Association of the Uber India

Technology Pvt. Ltd., it shall not only act as a "Taxi Aggregator",

but shall also act as an "Agent", and/or any service provider in 67 connection with the foregoing. Thus, according to its

Memorandum of Association, the Company shall act as an Agent. When an aggregator enters the taxi transportation service

sector, it initially enters into an agreement with the permit holders.

The aggregator and the permit holder enter into the agreement as

"independent contractors". The aggregator positions itself both as a

"lead generator", and as being "a limited agent for the purpose of

collecting the fare". But nonetheless, an aggregator holds out a

promise to the permit holder that it will ensure an endless supply

of passengers for the taxis owned by the permit holder. Since the

permit holder is assured of passengers, since the permit holder

reaps the benefit of such an association, the permit holder willingly

enters into the agreement which stipulates certain conditions

imposed by the aggregator. These conditions not only relate to the

quality of the vehicle to be maintained by the permit holder, but

also relate to the qualifications and character of the driver

employed by the permit holder on his/her taxis. As a consideration

for the service provided by the aggregator, the permit holder agrees

to pay a consideration of 20% of the fares received by the driver

from the passengers. Furthermore, according to the agreement, an 68 aggregator not only collects the fare for the trip, but also collects

"the booking fee" and "the service fee" from the passengers. In

order to buttress this plea, the learned counsel have emphasised

the agreement entered between the Uber Company, the petitioner,

and a permit holder. (The agreement shall be discussed in detail

later in the judgment). Secondly, according to the learned counsel, an

advertisement can also solicit orders from a prospective

client/buyer/passenger. Thus, they have emphasised the

advertisements issued by Uber Company, and the e-mails sent by

it to particular individuals. According to them, the Uber Company

offers a bounty to the passengers for registering themselves on its

platform. Further, the lucrative offers are also made to the

passengers by the Uber Company not just for its own interest, but

more so to ensure the endless supply of passengers for the benefit

of permit holder (s). Since the Aggregator entices the passengers,

convinces the passengers to use only those taxis which are

registered on its platform, it solicits the passengers for the benefit

of the permit holder (s). Moreover, since the aggregator does not

own, or lease out any taxis, its advertisement for attracting the 69 passengers are on behalf of the permit holders. Therefore, the

aggregator "canvasses" on behalf of the permit holder. Hence, the

aggregator is "a canvasser" and is squarely covered by Section 93 of the Act. Thirdly, the learned Senior Counsel for petitioner company

has misinterpreted Section 95 of the Act. For, Section 95

empowers the State Government to make Rules as to stage

carriages and contract carriages. Since taxis fall within the

category of contract carriages, the State has ample power for

framing Rules for taxis as well under Section 95 of the Act. Hence,

the State is justified in claiming that the Aggregator Rules are

being framed under Section 95 of the Act. Fourthly, since the aggregator is a canvasser, since Section

96 (2) (xxviii) permit a State to frame Rules for agents and

canvasser, the State is justified in invoking its power under Section

93 read with Section 96 of the Act for promulgating the Aggregator

Rules. Moreover, Section 92 (xiv), (xviii), (xx), (xxv), (xxviii), (xxxii),

(xxxiii) of the Act, duly empowers the State to frame Rules for

different headings mentioned in the sub-sections aforementioned. 70 These different headings deal with different aspects of contract

carriages including a taxi. Hence, the Rules are intra vires the Act. Fifthly, the learned counsel submit that while interpreting

the scope and ambit of Section 93 of the Act, this court should

apply the golden rule of interpretation, and should go by the plain

and grammatical meaning of the words. If there is no ambiguity in Section 93 of the Act, the court need not go any further and need

not consider external aids for interpreting the said provision. In

order to support this plea, the learned counsel have relied upon Nemai Chandrakumar & Ors. v Mani Square Ltd. & Ors. [( 2015) 14 SCC 203], Kalyan Roller Four Mills Pvt. Ltd. v

Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Andhra Pradesh [ (2014)

16 SCC 375], Willow Wren Canal Carrying Co. Ltd. v British

Transport Commission [(1956) 1 WLR 213], British and

Colonial Furniture Co. Ltd. v William Mcllroy Ltd. [(1951) All

ER 404], and M/s Velji Lakhamshi and Co. v Benett Coleman

and Co. [(1977) 3 SCC 160]. According the learned counsel, Section 93 of the Act does not suffer from any ambiguity. Hence,

this court need not consider the proposed Amendment Bill of 2016

as an external aid for interpreting the said provision. 71 Sixthly, while Rule 113 of the KMV Rules already covers the

licensing and regulation of conduct of "agent", there were no

corresponding rules which would cover the licensing and

regulation of conduct of "canvassers". Therefore, it was imperative

to frame Rules which would regulate the action of the canvassers.

Hence, the Aggregator Rules. Moreover, there were complaints from the public and other

taxi service providers, such as the City Taxi Service, the Bangalore

Tourist Taxi Owners Association, the Association of Radio Taxis,

that the aggregators were charging more fares than fixed by the

Government. Therefore, the aggregators were violating the law.

Hence, the Government was convinced that the aggregator's

conduct needs to be regulated. Further, there were also complaints that the aggregators

were utilising All India Tourist Vehicle permits for fairing local

commuters. Therefore, the aggregators were violating the purpose

for which the permit was granted under Section 88 (9) of the Act.

According to the learned counsel, permit issued under Section 88

(9) of the Act is granted to a person for plying "tourist vehicle" and 72 that, too, "for the purpose of promoting tourism". Therefore, such

tourist vehicles are required, by Law to carry only tourists and not

local commuters. However, the aggregators were violating the

requirements of the law. Hence, the need for the Aggregator Rules. Furthermore, since certain untoward incidents had taken

place in taxis provided by the aggregators, in different parts of the

country, the issue about the safety of the passengers was of

paramount concern. Therefore, in order to ensure that the

aggregators comply with the law, that there is an integrity of their

process and operation, and that there is a safety of the passengers,

the Central Government issued an advisory to the State

Government to frame the Aggregator Rules. Thus, the Aggregator

Rules have been framed in public interest and for the public good.

Hence, the Aggregator Rules are not only intra vires the Act, but

are also in public interest. Thus, they are constitutionally valid. Seventhly, relying on the cases of Deepak Theatre, Dhuri v.

State of Punjab [ ( 1992) Supp (1) SCC 684], Uttar Pradesh

Power Corporation Limited v. National Thermal Power

Corporation Limited and Others [ (2009) 6 SCC 235] and on 73 State of U.P. and Another v. Maharaja Dharmander Prashad

Singh and Others [ (1999) 2 SCC 505], the learned counsel have

pleaded that the power to regulate implies the power to prescribe

and enforce all such proper and reasonable Rules and Regulations

as may be deemed necessary to conduct the business in a proper

and orderly manner. Therefore, the State has the power to

prescribe reasonable rules, regulations or conditions subject to

which the business may be permitted or conducted. Therefore, the

State has ample powers under Sections 93 , 95 and 96 of the Act to

promulgate the Aggregator Rules and to lay down the conditions

under which an Aggregator can function and can carry out its

business. Thus, the Aggregator Rules are intra vires the Act. 37. In order to answer the issue if the Aggregator Rules

could be drafted under Sections 93 , 95 (1) and 96 (1) of the Act or

not, it is essential to analyze the definition of the word "Aggregator"

as given in the Aggregator Rules. 38. At the cost of repetition, Rule 2 (2) of the Aggregator

Rules defines the term "Aggregator" as under: "Aggregator" means a person who is an
 aggregator or operator or an intermediary/ market place 74 who canvasses or solicits or facilitates passengers for
 travel by a taxi and who connects the passenger/
 intending passenger to a driver of a taxi through phone
 calls, internet, web-based services or GPS/GPRS based
 services whether or not any fare, fee, commission,
 brokerage or other charges are collected for providing
 such services. The said definition can be divided into three parts: firstly, it

means an aggregator. But this part of the definition is purely

tautological. For it merely says that a = a; secondly, it means an

operator who connects the passenger/ intending passenger to a

driver of a taxi through technological means, for a consideration or

without a consideration; thirdly, it means a intermediary/ market

place who canvasses or solicits or facilitates passengers for travel

by a taxi and who connects passenger/ intending passenger to a

driver of a taxi through a technological platform, for a

consideration or without a consideration. 39. In the present case, this court is dealing with a

petitioner-Company which is clearly neither "the owner" of the

taxis, nor "a lessee" of the taxis. It merely claims to facilitate and to

connect a passenger/ intending passenger to a driver of a taxi. The 75 other petitioners are either All India Permit Holder, or taxi drivers.

The former are not so much disturbed by the framing of the Rules,

as they are by omission of the class of All India Tourist Vehicle

permit holder from the purview of the Aggregator Rules. The latter

are aggrieved by the "illegal" seizure of their taxis by the police.

Therefore, while dealing with the issue with regard to the

Aggregator Rules being intra vires of the Act or not, the discussion

is limited only to the position taken by the petitioner-Company.

Thus, the discussion does not include "the operator" as contained

in the definition of the aggregator mentioned and discussed above. 40. In order to fully understand the scope and ambit of Section 93 of the Act, it is essential to briefly refer to the

architectural structure of the Act. Section 2 (7) of the Act defines the term "Contract Carriage".

Contract Carriage includes motor cabs. Taxis are motor cabs. Section 74 of the Act grants permits to the owners of taxis. Thus, Section 74 of the Act deals with the principal. Section 74 (2)

permits the licensing authority to impose certain conditions upon

the permit holder. However, in order to control transport vehicles, 76 it was also essential for the Act to deal with two other classes of

persons who are related to motor vehicles, but are not the

principal, namely "the agent", and "the canvasser". Therefore, in

order to bring these two classes of persons within the control of the

law, Section 93 of the Act was enacted. Section 93 (1) of the Act makes it mandatory for an agent

and a canvasser to have a license before he/she can hold himself/

herself as an agent or a canvasser. However, the section deals with

only two activities performed by the each of the two classes: selling

tickets for the public service vehicle by the agent, and with

soliciting of customers by the canvasser for the public service

vehicle. Hence, the section deals with only two categories of

persons, and only when they perform the two specified functions.

Hence, Section 93 (1) of the Act cannot travel beyond this limited

scope. Section 93 (2) of the Act permits licensing authority to

prescribe certain conditions named in the said sub-section.

However, we need not concern ourselves with this sub-section as it

is not germane to the controversy before this court. 77 41. The moot question before this court is whether an

aggregator is covered by the words "canvasser" or "solicitor"

or not ? 42. The word "canvasser" has not been defined in the Act.

Therefore, we must turn to the Law Lexicon in order to know its

meaning. P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Advanced Law Lexicon [2005

Edition] defines a "canvasser" as a "travelling salesman who goes

out on the road soliciting orders for his firm and taking with him

samples of the goods or wares his house deals in." It further defines

the verb "to canvass" as "to go about a region or district, to solicit

votes, orders, subscriptions, or the like." (Emphasis added)." 43. Of course, Mr. Poovayya is justified in relying on the case

of Verner Jeffers (supra) in order to distinguish between the noun

"canvasser" and the verb "to canvass". Undoubtedly, the verb "to

canvass" does apply to a person who solicits business on his own

behalf. But the noun "canvasser" applies to a person who

canvasses on behalf of another person. 44. The word "to solicit" also has not been defined in the

Act. But according to P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Advanced Law Lexicon 78 [2005 Edition], "to solicit" means "to entreat (a person) for or to do

something; to importune", "to ask for or to seek". 45. Mr. Poovayya's argument that an aggregator neither

canvasses, nor solicits customers is attractive at the first blush.

His emphasis about the aggregator merely providing a technology

"platform" is also beguiling at the first instance. But a closer

scrutiny of the functioning of the aggregator, as revealed by the

agreement entered between the aggregator and the permit holder,

blows the cover off his arguments. Therefore, to fully understand

the status of an aggregator it is imperative to refer to the terms and

conditions of "the Service Agreement" ('the agreement', for short)

entered between the petitioner-Company and the permit holder. 46. The agreement has been drafted deftly. Hence it requires

a close examination. The said agreement is between the transport

service provider, called the "Customer", meaning thereby the

permit holder, and the petitioner-Company, an aggregator.

According to Condition No. 13.1, "the relationship between the

parties under this Agreement is solely that of independent

contractors." Moreover, the agreement is for "the mutual benefit of 79 both the parties." Further, according to the preamble of the

agreement, the petitioner-Company holds itself out to be a "lead

generator". And according to condition No. 13, dealing with the

"Relationship of the Parties", the petitioner-Company admits that it

acts "as the limited payment collection agent solely for the purpose

of collecting payment from Users (passengers) on behalf of

Customer." (Later we shall discuss the term "lead generation", and

its inter-relationship with advertising or advertisements). Further according to the agreement, Uber shall provide "Uber

Service", which is defined in Condition No. 1.17 as meaning "Uber's

electronic service rendered via a digital technology platform, being

on-demand intermediary and related services that enable

transportation providers to seek, receive and fulfill on-demand

requests for transportation services by users seeking transportation

services..." Thereby meaning that the aggregator shall provide a

'digital technology platform' to the permit holder, through which

the permit holder would be able to 'seek, receive and fulfill', the

'on-demand request' from the passenger ('user') who is seeking a

taxi ride ('transport service'). Hence, the aggregator is acting on 80 behalf of the permit holder in such as way as to connect the permit

holder to the passenger. Similarly, the words "Transportation Service" is defined in

Condition No. 1.14 as meaning "the provision of passenger

transportation services to Users via the Uber Services in the Territory

by Customer and its drivers using the Vehicles." Therefore meaning

that the passenger is being provided a taxi ride ('transportation

services') by the permit holder ('Customer') and its drivers by the

vehicles registered with the aggregator ('using the vehicles) through

the Uber Services. Thus, the permit holder uses the aggregator as

a medium for providing the taxis to the passenger. The vehicles,

which are provided to the passenger, through the aggregators, are

the vehicles owned, and registered by the permit holder on to the

aggregator's platform. Condition No. 1.18 defines the term "User" as meaning "an

end user authorized by Uber to use Uber's mobile application for the

purpose of obtaining Transportation Services offered by Uber's

transportation provider customers." Thereby meaning that the word

"User" means the passenger ('end user') who is authorized by the 81 aggregator to use the platform 'for the purpose of obtaining' a taxi

('Transportation Service'), offered by the permit holder (elliptically

described as "Uber's transportation provider customers"). Here again

the aggregator is offering only those "public service vehicles" which

are owned by the permit holder to the passenger. Thus, the

aggregator is working as a medium on behalf of the permit holder.

And the aggregator is concerned only with those taxis (public

service vehicles) which are owned by the permit holder and are

registered with the aggregator. Again the aggregator is working on

behalf of the permit holder, and is related to the public service

vehicles of the permit holder. Condition No. 4 deals with the Financial Terms between the

permit holder and the aggregator. According to Condition No. 4.1 of

the agreement, the "Customer: i) appoints Uber as Customer's

limited payment collection agent solely for the purpose of accepting

the fare, applicable Tolls and, depending on the region and/ or if

requested by Customer, applicable taxes and fees from the User on

behalf of the Customer via the payment processing functionality

facilitated by the Uber Services; and ii) agrees that payment made

by User to Uber shall be considered the same as payment made 82 directly by the User to Customer." Further, "Uber agrees to remit to

Customer on at least a weekly basis: (a) the Fare less the applicable

Service Fee; (b) the Tolls; and (c) depending on the region, certain

taxes and ancillary fees." This Condition clearly spells out that the

aggregator is working as a collection agent of the permit holder.

The aggregator collects the fare on behalf of the permit holder, and

remits the fare and other amount to the permit holder on a weekly

basis. Moreover, the aggregator is permitted to deduct "the

applicable Service Fee" from the fare amount to be remitted to the

permit holder. According to definition clause, Condition No. 1.10,

"Service Fees" has the meaning set forth in Section 4 . 4. Condition

No. 4.4 defines the "Service Fee" as meaning "In consideration of

Uber's provision of the Uber Services, Customer agrees to pay Uber a

service fee on a per Transportation Services transaction basis

calculated as a percentage of the fare..." Further, "In addition, with

respect to taxi Services in the applicable Territory, Customer agrees

to pay Uber a booking fee in consideration of Uber's provision of the

Driver App and the Uber Services." Hence, according to this

Condition, the aggregator is entitled to a percentage of the fare as 83 'Service fee', and to the 'booking fee'. This is the consideration paid

to the aggregator for the service rendered by it to the permit holder. Condition No. 13 reveals the "Relationship of the Parties."

According to Condition No. 13.1, " Except as otherwise expressly

provided herein with respect to Uber acting as the limited payment

collection agent solely for the purpose of collecting payment from

Users on behalf of Customer, the relationship between the parties

under this Agreement is solely that of independent contractors."

Hence, the aggregator is acting as a "limited payment collection

agent...on behalf of the Customer (permit holder)". But both the

parties are entering into the agreement as "independent

contractors". Interestingly, under Condition No. 4.7, "the Customer

acknowledges and agrees that, for the mutual benefit of the parties,

through advertising and marketing, Uber and its Affiliates may seek

to attract new Users to Uber and to increase existing Users' use of

Uber's mobile application." Thus, Uber is allowed by the permit

holder to "attract new Users (passengers)", through "advertising

and marketing" for persuading the passengers to register on the 84 aggregator's platform for "the mutual benefit of the parties." In fact,

it is through advertising and marketing that the aggregator, Uber

Company, shall fulfill its role as a 'lead generator' and as an

endless provider of passengers for the benefit of the permit holder. 47. This takes us to the very concept of "lead generator".

This is a term borrowed from marketing. Lead generation is the

initiation of consumer interest, or inquiry into services or a

business. The method of generating leads typically falls under the

umbrella of advertising, but may also include other methods.

Leads may come from various sources or activities, for example,

digitally via the internet, or through advertisements. The purpose

of lead generation is to tap potential customers for the benefit of

either one's own business, or for the benefit of another's business.

By tapping, by pursuing the potential customers, a list of potential

customers is generated, who can be contacted for convincing them

to either buy the product, or to take the service. 48. In marketing, "purchase funnel" or "purchasing funnel" 49. Thus, the function of the lead generator is to tap the

potential clients/ customers for bringing them into a market place;

the function of the advertisement is to create awareness, generate

opinion, persuade the potential customer to consider the service, 86 to convince the customer to have a preference for the service, and

to ensure that the customer takes the service. Thus, "lead

generation", and advertising are inter-related. These two functions

may be performed by a single entity, or by different entities. 50. A perusal of the terms and conditions of the agreement

clearly reveal that the relationship between the two independent

contractors is a symbiotic one, where one cannot exist without the

other, and the relationship is mutually beneficial to both. The

permit holder allows the aggregator to use advertising and

marketing "to attract new Users (passengers)." The aggregator

attracts the passengers, through advertisement, to the vehicles

(public service vehicles) owned and registered by the permit holder

on the aggregator's platform. The aggregator collects the fare from

the passenger on behalf of the permit holder. The aggregator remits

the fare to the permit holder on a weekly basis. For the service of

providing the passengers, and for collecting the fare, the permit

holder, in turn, pays a 'Service Fee', and a 'booking fee', to the

aggregator. Thus, simply put, the aggregator does work on behalf

of the permit holder. This is one side of the coin. 87 51. But the next question is whether the aggregator 'solicits'

customer for the permit holder or not? The other side of the coin is

for the aggregator to arouse the interest of the potential customer/

passengers to the extent that the customer/ passenger would

agree to take the vehicles registered on its platform. For this

purpose, we may examine to the advertisements issued by the

aggregator. The petitioner Company has issued a large number of

advertisements for "Book an Uber Ride at Rs. 7/Km", for getting

"Around Like a Movie Star!" with "Rs. 300 off Your First Uber Ride",

for "Treating Yourself: Step it Up When Step Out for a Big Night."

There are ads informing the potential customer/ passenger that

"25% Off All Uber Rides...We just dropped our fares by 25% for a

limited duration,,, making Uber almost as cheap as auto-rickshaw

fares. In fact, if you use the fare-split feature with friend or

colleague, it is cheaper than auto-rickshaw!" It offers "ride free for

one week...share your invite code with 4 friends and family." There

is also a comparative advertising done by the petitioner-Company

whereby Uber compares its fares with an auto-rickshaw, and other

Operators/ Taxis. It even offers Flight Tickets to Kolkatta. If the

petitioner Company finds that a particular passenger has not 88 taken a ride for quite some time, it sends a personal e-mail and

tries to convince him/ her to "take a ride with Uber". 52. Hence, by making alluring offers, the petitioner-

Company is entreating the passenger to register with its platform,

for the purpose of taking taxis (public service vehicle), owned by

the permit holder. Therefore, the petitioner-Company, as an

aggregator, is certainly soliciting the customer/ passenger strictly

for the purpose of taking only those vehicles which are registered

on its platform, and which belong to the permit holder. Thus, the

aggregator does "canvass" for the permit holder by soliciting the

customer for taking the public service vehicles owned by the

permit holder. Hence, undoubtedly, an aggregator does fall within

the words of Section 93 of the Act, namely "a canvasser...solicits

the customer for such vehicle (public service vehicle) ". Therefore, an

aggregator is covered under Section 93 of the Act. 53. Of course, Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior

counsel, has argued that an aggregator does not go on to the road

to solicit customers. But in the Digital Age, the internet itself has

created "roads" for the people to travel and solicit customers. The 89 days of travelling salesmen belong to the bygone age. In the post-

modern world, in the age of virtual reality, internet is the longest

and safest "highway" which connects people across continents.

Internet has not only created highways for people to travel on, but

has also created market places for people to sell their products,

services, and ideas. It has reduced the planet into a global village.

Therefore, Mr. Poovayya's argument that the petitioner Company

merely offers a technology platform, and merely "facilitates and

connects the passenger and the taxi driver" is a hypnotic illusion

which cannot be accepted. In the face of the evidence, it is both

untenable and unacceptable. 54. Mr. Sajan Poovayya is equally unjustified in claiming

that a canvasser has to work for a known entity. A bare perusal of Section 93 of the Act would belie this plea. For, the said section

does not lay down that a canvasser has to work for a known

principal. The section confines itself to the function being

performed by the canvasser, that he/ it should solicit customer for

the public service vehicle. Thus, it is not necessary for the purpose

of Section 93 of the Act for a canvasser to work for a known permit

holder or entity. What is essential for Section 93 of the Act is that 90 the canvasser should solicit customers for the public service

vehicle owned by the permit holder. As discussed above, the

aggregator does solicit customer for taking the taxis owned by the

permit holder. Hence, an aggregator is covered by Section 93 of the

Act. 55. Mr. Sajan Poovayya is certainly justified in claiming that Section 93 of the Act covers only the canvasser and not the

principal. As distinguished in the case of Verner Jeffers (supra),

"canvasser" is a person who canvasses on behalf of an another

person or entity. Thus, while the principal or a permit holder may

canvass on his own behalf, he/ she does not become a "canvasser".

Moreover, if Section 93 of the Act were interpreted to mean as

including the principal or the permit holder, then such an

interpretation would make the grant of permit under Section 74 of

the Act as redundant. Further, the Act could not have envisaged

that a permit holder is first required to take a permit under Section

74 of the Act, and then to seek a license under Section 93 of the

Act. Since such an interpretation would lead to an anomalous

situation, such an interpretation cannot be accepted. Thus, Section 93 of the Act does not include a principal even if the 91 principal were canvassing for himself/ herself/ itself. Section 93 of

the Act is, in fact, confined only to an agent and a canvasser. 56. Mr. Sajan Poovayya has also emphasised on the

proposed Amendment Bill, 2016 and relied upon the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV (supra) to argue that the

proposed Bill clearly proves that the category of aggregator is not

covered by the present Section 93 of the Act. Such an argument

raises an interesting legal issue: whether a court should take

recourse to an external aid, like a Proposed Bill for Amendment,

while interpreting the law that exists presently or not? 57. In catena of cases, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

opined that the starting point for an interpretation of a Statute is

the plain and grammatical meaning of the provision itself. If the

language of the provision is clear and unambiguous, the court

need not look outside the statute. The interpretation on the basis

of plain and grammatical meaning, or the Rule of Literal

Interpretation has also been called the "Golden Rule of

Interpretation". In the case of Kalyan Roller Flower Mills Pvt.

Ltd. v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Andhra Pradesh [ 92 (2014) 16 SCC 375], the Apex Court has opined that the object

and purpose of the statutory provision has to be gathered from the

words themselves. The safer and more correct course to deal with

a question of construction of a statute is to take the words

themselves and arrive at, if possible, at their meaning, without, in

the first place, reference to cases or theories of construction. 58. Although the word canvasser may not be defined in the

Act, but considering the definition of the word canvasser given in

the Law Lexicon, Section 93 of the Act does not suffer from any

ambiguity. Therefore, there is no reason for this court to consider

external aids for interpreting the said provision. 59. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel has

relied on the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV (supra)

in order to argue that the proposed Amendment Bill should be

considered while interpreting Section 93 of the Act. However, such

a plea is fraught with danger. For, a proposed Bill has to undergo

the scrutiny of both the Houses of the Parliament while the Bill is

under debate; the proposed amendments may be modified, altered,

accepted, or rejected by the House of the Parliament. Thus, till the 93 Bill is passed as an Act of the Parliament, it does not reflect either

the will of the people, or the intention of the Parliament. For what

is in the realm of possibility cannot be said to be concretized. It is

only after a proposed Bill has received the assent of the President,

and the amendments are brought into force through an

Amendment Act, can it be said that the intention of the Parliament

is clear. Till the intention of the Parliament is abundantly clear, it

would be too early to accept the proposed Amendment Bill as the

intention of the Parliament. 60. In the case of Willow Wren Canal Carrying Co. Ltd.,

(supra) UpJohn. J opined as under: 61. Similarly in the case of British and Colonial Furniture

Co. Ltd., (supra) Jenkis L.J. opined that "it is contrary to all

principles that we should decide these two cases not simply on

matters relevant to the Landlord and Tenant legislation as it stands,

but by reference to possible alterations in the law which may be

made under legislation yet to be passed". 62. The observations made in the case of Willow Wren

Canal Carrying Co. Ltd. (supra) have been accepted by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M/s. Velji Lakhamsi and

Co. and Others (supra). 63. Even in the case of Vodafone International Holdings

BV (supra) the Apex Court has not laid a new rule for interpreting a

provision of law. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has merely used the

proposed Bill as a minor premise in order to support its major

premise for reaching the conclusion that Section 9 (1) (i) of the

Income Tax Act, 1961, cannot be extended to cover indirect

transfers of capital assets/property situated in India. Therefore,

the said case does not lay down a new principle for interpreting a

provision of law. Hence, the contention raised by the learned 95 counsel for petitioner-Company that the proposed Amendment Bill

should be considered and should be taken to reveal the fact that

the category of Aggregator is not included within the category of

Canvasser is unacceptable. 64. Moreover, as discussed above, the meaning of the word

canvasser is clear both from the case of Verner Jeffers (supra),

and from the definitions given in the Law Lexicon. Thus, there is

no ambiguity about Section 93 of the Act. Since there is no

ambiguity in the language of Section 93 of the Act, there is no

justifiable reason for consulting external aids for understanding

the scope of the said provision. 65. As far as Mr. Sajan Poovayya's contention with regard to Section 93 (2) of the Act is concerned, it is not germane to the

present controversy. For, once this court has concluded that an

aggregator falls within the category of canvasser, under Section 96

(2) (xxviii), the State does have ample power to make Rules for the

aggregator. 66. As far as Mr. Sajan Poovayya's contention with regard to Section 95 of the Act is concerned, suffice it to say that Section 95 96 of the Act deals with Contract Carriages. Since a Taxi is a motor

cab, therefore, it does come under the definition of the word

Contract Carriage as defined in Section 2 (7) of the Act. Thus, the

State is empowered to frame the Aggregator Rules under Section

95 of the Act. 67. Section 96 (1) of the Act empowers the State to frame

rules "for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this

Chapter." Since Chapter V includes Section 74 of the Act,

therefore, the State can also make rules with regard to the owner

of the taxi cabs, or the "operator" as included in the definition of

the word "Aggregator" given in Rule 2 (2) of the Aggregator Rules. 68. Moreover, Section 96 (2) (xxviii) of the Act empowers the

State to make rules with regard to an agent and a canvasser. Since

an aggregator comes within the definition of the word canvasser

contained in Section 93 of the Act, since Section 95 of the Act

covers contract carriages, therefore, Section 93 read with 95 read

with Section 96 (1) and 96 (2) (xxviii) of the Act do bestow ample

power upon the State to promulgate the Aggregator Rules, 2016.

Hence, the Aggregator Rules are within the competency of the 97 State. Therefore, the first contention raised by the learned Senior

counsel for petitioner-Company is clearly unacceptable.

The Aggregator Rules and the Constitution of India: 69. Extensive arguments have been raised with regard to

the Aggregator Rules violating Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the

Constitution of India. In order to have a comprehensive

understanding of the submissions, vis-a-vis a particular article of

the Constitution, this court proposes to deal with the arguments

under sub-headings referring to the particular Article of the

Constitution of India. The Aggregator Rules vis-a-vis Article 14 of the
Constitution of India: 70. Mr. Sajan Poovayya's second challenge to the Aggregator

Rules is on the ground that the provisions of the Rules violate Arts.

14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. This court shall deal

with each Article separately. In this challenge on the basis of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, the learned Senior counsel

is joined by Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel in 98 W.P.No.30917/2016, and by Mr. Anish Munu, the learned counsel

in W.P.No.30191/2016. 71. Relying on the case of Om Kumar v Union of India [(2001) 2 SCC 386], Mr. Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel

submits that while regulating exercise of fundamental rights, the

appropriate or least-restrictive choice of measure should be

adopted by the legislature. Therefore, the courts are asked to

examine if the legislature has maintained a proper balance

between the adverse effects which the legislation may have on the

rights, liberties or interests of persons, while keeping in mind the

purpose which the legislation intends to serve. Secondly, an aggregator and an Operator under the

CTS Scheme are similarly placed. For, both are involved with the

taxi sector in urban transportation, and both provide taxis to the

passengers. However, a comparison between the CTS Scheme and

the Aggregator Rules would reveal that the Aggregator Rules have

inflicted more onerous liabilities/ responsibilities on the aggregator

than has been placed on the Operator under the CTS Scheme.

Thus, a homogenous category of taxi service providers is being 99 artificially bifurcated by the Aggregator Rules. But such a

bifurcation is without any intelligent differentia, and without any

nexus to the object of the Aggregator Rules. Thus, these provisions

violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. To begin with, Rule 5 (3) of the Aggregator Rules prevents an

aggregator from owning or leasing a taxi unless it has a licence

under the Aggregator Rules. However, no such pre-requisite has

been prescribed for an Operator under the CTS Scheme. Thus, a

prohibition has been imposed on the aggregator, which does not

exist vis-a-vis the Operator under the CTS Scheme. Clearly, Article

14 of the Constitution of India is being violated. Likewise, Rule 6 of the Aggregator Rules deals with grant or

renewal of a licence. Rule 6(a) of the Aggregator Rules requires that

an aggregator should have "a fleet of minimum of 100 taxies either

owned or through an agreement with individual Taxi permit

holders." However, no such requirement of having a minimum

number of taxis has been imposed upon an Operator under the

CTS Scheme. Thus, again a higher threshold is being inflicted

upon the aggregator than on an Operator. Further, this 100 requirement of having a minimum of 100 taxies has no logical

basis. Furthermore, such a requirement has no nexus with the

avowed object of the Rules, which is to ensure the safety of the

passenger and to ensure greater integrity of process and operation

of the Aggregator. Hence, Rule 6(a) of the Aggregator Rules is

obviously violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Similarly, Rule 7 of the Aggregator Rules prescribes the

vehicle profile of the vehicles to be maintained by the aggregator.

Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules makes it mandatory that each

taxi should have a "panic button" which should be connected both

with the control room of the aggregator, and with the police

station. However, no such condition is imposed upon the

Operators under the CTS Scheme. If the safety of the passenger is

paramount, then all the taxis should be required to have a panic

button, regardless of the fact whether they are covered by the

CTS Scheme, or by the Aggregator Rules. However, the Aggregator

Rules treat the Operators as more equal than the aggregators.

Thus, Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules is violative of Article 14 of

the Constitution of India. While the CTS Scheme does not require a permit holder to

check the criminal antecedents of the driver before employing him,

Rule 10 (h) of the Aggregator Rules makes it a mandatory condition

that "the antecedents of every driver of a Taxi is verified by the

police authorities before the driver is allowed to use the licencee's

platform." If such a requirement is imposed ostensibly on the

ground that the safety of the passenger is important, then the said

requirement should equally be imposed on the Operator under the

CTS Scheme. However, no such requirement exists in the CTS

Scheme. Thus, again Article 14 of the Constitution is violated. Most importantly, Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules deals with

power of the licensing authority to suspend or cancel the licence.

According to Rule 11(c) of the Aggregator Rules, the licensing

authority may cancel the license if "any driver of a Taxi operated by

him violates any requirement or conditions of these rules", or "a

passenger's complaint of misbehaviour or misdemeanour on the part

of the driver or the licencee or any of his employees is found to be

correct after enquiry" or "a criminal complaint is filed against the

licencee or his employee or the driver." According to the learned

Senior Counsel no such liability is imposed upon the permit 102 holders under the CTS Scheme. While a vicarious liability is

imposed upon the aggregator, under Rule 11 (c), (d), and (e) of the

Aggregator Rules, no such vicarious liability exists qua the permit

holder covered by the CTS Scheme. Thus, Article 14 of the

Constitution of India is violated. 72. Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel in Writ

Petition No. W.P.No.30917/2016, has argued on behalf of All India

Tourist Vehicle permit holders and on behalf of the taxi drivers.

While comparing the Aggregator Rules vis-à-vis the CTS Scheme,

the learned Senior Counsel has basically echoed the arguments of

Mr. Poovayya as a far as the contentions with regard to Article 14 of the Constitution of India are concerned. Hence, his submissions

are not being narrated here. 73. However, Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior counsel,

has challenged the constitutionality of Rule 8 (c) and (d) of the

Aggregator Rules, on the ground that they violate Article 14 of the

Constitution of India. Rule 8 (c) of the Aggregator Rules insists that

the driver should have stayed in Karnataka for at least two years.

Thus, the Rule imposes a pre-requisite period of residency. 103 Further, Rule 8 (d) of the Aggregator Rules requires that the driver

should have "a working knowledge of Kannada". According to the

learned Senior counsel such requirements have no nexus with the

object of the Aggregator Rules. Hence, they are highly arbitrary,

unreasonable and unfair requirements prescribed by the

Aggregator Rules; thus, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of

India. 74. On the other hand, both Mr. A. S. Poonana, the learned

Additional Advocate General, and Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned

Senior Counsel, for respondent No.5 in W.P.No. 30917/2016, and

Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar, the learned Senior Counsel for

respondent No.3 in W.P.No. 30191/2016 have pleaded that the

Aggregator Rules deal with a single category, namely the

aggregators. The object of the Aggregator Rules is to regulate the

aggregator, and not the permit holder or the driver. Thus, the

aggregator and the Operator under the CTS Scheme do not form a

homogenous category. Further, even the permit holders associated

with the aggregator, and the permit holders under the CTS Scheme

form two distinct classes. For the former permit holders use a

technology platform in order to access the passenger, they reap the 104 benefits of their association with an aggregator, whereas the latter

permit holders neither use such a technology, nor reap such

benefits. Therefore, the permit holders under the Aggregator Rules,

and under the CTS Scheme form two unequal classes. Hence, the

question of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India would

not even arise. Secondly, the permit holders under the CTS Scheme are

permit holders under Section 74 of the Act. Thus, they are

amenable to the requirements prescribed by the Act and the Rules

made there-under. Thus, for the sake of argument, even if the

permit holders under the CTS Scheme and the ones under the

Aggregator Rules were held to be a homogenous category, even

then there is hardly any difference between the requirements

under the Aggregator Rules and those under the CTS Scheme read

with the requirements of the MV Act and the KMV Rules. In fact,

the permit holders under the CTS Scheme operate, more or less,

under the same conditions as are prescribed under the Aggregator

Rules for the permit holders under the said Rules. Thus, again the

question of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India would

not arise. Thirdly, according to the learned counsel, the minimum

requirement of 100 taxis cannot be faulted. For, the same is a

policy decision of the State Government. The State has to fix a cut

off number for the aggregator. Since it is a legislative policy

decided by the State, therefore, the same cannot be interfered with

by this court under its writ jurisdiction. In order to support this

plea, the learned counsel have relied upon the case of D. S. Nakara v Union of India [ (1983) 1 SCC 305]. Fourthly, as far as the requirement of panic button is

concerned, Mr. A. S. Poonanna, the learned Additional Advocate

General, submits that the aggregators control about 85% of the

taxi sector. Therefore, initially the requirement has been imposed

upon them as they control the lion's share of the market. But soon,

the government would make it a pre-condition for all the taxis in

the State. Hence, eventually there will not be any discrimination

between the taxis under the Aggregator Rules, and the ones under

the CTS Scheme. Supporting the stand of the State, Mr. S. S. Naganand, the

learned Senior Counsel, submits that merely because a miniscule 106 minority of taxis, which exist under the CTS Scheme, are not

required to install a panic button, even this does not imply that the

aggregators are being discriminated against. Relying on the case of State of Madhya Pradesh v Narmada Bachao Andolan & Ano .

[ ( 2011) 7 SCC 639 ], the learned Senior counsel has argued that

a conduct is said to be discriminatory if it is unjust, unfair action

in favour of one against another or involves an element of

intentional and purposeful differentiation and further involves an

element of unfavourable bias, and unfair classification. However,

in the present case there is neither an element of unfavourable

bias, nor unfair classification, nor an element of unjustness and

unfairness. The need for a panic button is for the safety of the

passenger. Thus, it is in public interest. Hence, this requirement is

not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Fifthly, as far as getting the antecedents of the driver is

concerned, according to the learned counsel before granting a

driver licence and the badge, the criminal record of the driver is

examined by the licensing authority. Moreover, under Section 9 (8) of the Act a driver's licence may be refused if the licensing

authority is satisfied that the applicant for the licence is a habitual 107 criminal, or a habitual drunkard, or is a habitual addict to any

narcotic drugs etc. Similarly, under Section 19(1) of the Act a

licensing authority may disqualify a person from having a driver's

licence in case his antecedents are found wanting. Likewise, under

Rule 10 of the KMV Rules, if an application for renewal of driving

licence is made to the licensing authority, he is required to check if

the applicant has any antecedents of a bad record of driving. Thus,

the need to have the driver's antecedents checked is a requirement

under the Aggregator Rules, the CTS Scheme, the Act and the KMV

Rules. Thus, no onerous responsibility is being forced upon an

aggregator under the Aggregator Rules. Sixthly, the CTS Scheme covers permit holders who have

been granted the permit under Section 74 of the Act. According to Sections 86 and 192-A of the Act, if the conditions of the permit

are violated, the permit shall be cancelled by the licensing

authority. Thus, the consequence of violation of a condition is the

same under the CTS Scheme and the Aggregator Rules. Hence,

there is no violation of Article 14 of the Constitution as pleaded by

the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner company. 108 75. As far as Mr. Udaya Holla's contentions with regard to

the language and residency requirements are concerned, the

learned counsel for the State has contended that such a

requirement is equally placed on the drivers covered by the CTS

Scheme. Considering the fact that the taxis are being used in

Karnataka, considering the fact that most of the passengers may

be local residents of Karnataka, considering the fact most of the

traffic signals and signs are in Kannada language, it is imperative

for the driver to have a working knowledge of the state language.

Moreover, while the Aggregator Rules require the driver to have a

residency of two years, the CTS Scheme requires a driver to have a

residency of ten years. Hence. the requirement under the

Aggregator Rules is a reasonable one. 76. In rejoinder, Mr. Sajan Poovayya submits that the

requirement of checking the antecedents is not upon the permit

holder under the Act, or under the KMV Rules, or under the

CTS Scheme. However, the Aggregator Rules require the aggregator

to check the antecedents of a driver up to seven years before

registering him/her on the platform. Moreover, the Act and the

KMV Rules merely prescribe that the antecedents of the driver 109 should be checked prior to grant of driver licence or prior to the

renewal of the driver licence. But, the Aggregator Rules force the

aggregator to examine the driver's antecedents up to seven years

prior to his registration on the aggregator's platform. Hence, a

higher threshold is forced on the aggregator. 77. The moot question before this court is, therefore,

whether the aggregator under the Aggregator Rules, and the

Operator under the CTS Scheme form a homogenous class or not? 78. A bare perusal of the CTS Scheme and the Aggregator

Rules clearly reveals that the Operator under the former, and the

aggregator under the latter exist on two different planes. Firstly,

the CTS Scheme deals with the owners of taxis who have been

granted permits under Section 74 of the Act; the Aggregator Rules

do not deal with the owners of the taxis. It deals with the

aggregators, who are merely canvassers for the permit holder.

Thus, while the CTS Scheme deals with the principal, the

Aggregator Rules deal with the canvasser. Hence, their status

emanates from two different provisions of the Act. 110 Secondly, the permit holders under Section 74 of the Act are

controlled by the provisions of the Act and by the KMV Rules; the

aggregators, by the Aggregator Rules and by few of the provisions

of the Act. Thus, the Operators are covered by different set of laws,

than the aggregators. Thirdly, the CTS Scheme is applicable only to the taxis being

plied in Bengaluru; the Aggregator Rules are applicable throughout

the State. Thus, the applicability of the Aggregator Rules is in a

wider area than the Scheme. Fourthly, merely because the Operator and the aggregators

are engaged in providing taxi service to the passenger, this by itself

would not place both of them on identical footing. Their function

may be similar, but their status and the provision under which

they are covered are different. Hence, they form two separate and

distinct classes. Therefore, they can be subjected to two different

sets of conditions, rules and regulations. 79. As far as Mr. Udaya Holla's submission is concerned,

even that is difficult to accept. Undoubtedly, the permit holder

under the Scheme, and under the Aggregator Rules are both 111 permit holder under Section 74 of the Act. But this by itself would

not place them on the same plane. The permit holder under the

Aggregator Rules not only uses a technology platform, but also has

a canvasser, who has assured him/ her of an endless supply of

passengers; whereas, the Operator under the CTS Scheme has

neither the benefit of a technology platform, nor the benefit of a

canvasser, nor the benefit of a assured supply of passenger. The

Operator continues to be brick and mortar 'Taxiwala', although

covered under a Scheme floated by the Government. Thus, the

Operator stands on a different footing altogether. 80. Since both the classes are unequal, therefore, the

argument of Mr. Sajan Poovayya and Mr. Udaya Holla that the two

classes should be subject to same set of liabilities is unacceptable.

After all, unequals cannot be treated as equals. 81. In the case of State of A. P. v Nallamilli Rami Reddy [(2001) 7 SCC 708], the Hon'ble Supreme Court has opined that

"If the legislature reasonably classifies persons for legislative

purposes so as to bring them under a well-defined class, it is not

open to challenge on the ground of denial of equal treatment that the 112 law does not apply to other person." Therefore, as the State has

classified the aggregator and the Operator as two distinct and

separate classes, the former cannot complain that the similar set

of liabilities and responsibilities should be inflicted on the latter

as well. 82. Mr. Sajan Poovayya and Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned

Senior counsel, have pointed out many differences between the

responsibilities and duties forced upon the aggregator which have

not been pressed upon the Operator in order to argue that there is

an artificial bifurcation of the homogenous class. Moreover, the

differentiation has no nexus with the object of the Aggregator

Rules. Thus, it is a case of hostile discrimination against the

aggregator. 83. But such a contention would be valid if and only if the

two categories form a homogenous class. Since they do not, the

contentions with regard to imposition of more onerous liability

being inflicted on the aggregator cannot be accepted. 84. But even if, for the sake of argument, the above noted

contention were accepted, even then there is "logic in the madness" 113 85. A few arguments were raised by the learned Senior

Counsel and other counsel for the petitioners that the CTS Scheme

does not mandatorily cover all the permit holders under Section 74 of the Act. For, Condition No. 4 (2) clearly stipulates that "every

person who is a permit holder and wishes to be an Operator".

However, the petitioners have not brought any evidence to show

that there are permit holders under Section 74 of the Act who are

plying their taxis in Bengaluru, but are not covered by the CTS

Scheme. On the other hand, both the State and the interveners

have categorically stated that all permit holders under Section 74 of the Act are covered under the CTS Scheme. Be that as it may,

this court is not concerned with the extent of the CTS Scheme

except for the limited purpose of examining if the concept of

equality as contained in Article 14 of the Constitution is violated or

not. 86. Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules prevents an aggregator

from having a license under the said Rules, unless it owns or

leases out, through an agreement, a minimum of 100 taxis.

However, the CTS Scheme does not prescribe any minimum limit

of having a taxi by the permit holder before the permit holder is 115 brought under the Scheme. Again there is logic in this distinction: 87. Undoubtedly, the safety of the passengers is of

paramount concern. However, merely because the requirement of

the panic button is being introduced in a phased manner, firstly 117 through the aggregators, and as claimed by Mr. A. S. Ponnanna,

secondly, through the permit holders under the CTS Scheme, the

requirement cannot be said to be discriminatory in nature. The

journey of such a requirement has to begin with the first step.

Considering the fact that certain untoward incidents in the taxis

run by the aggregators had highlighted the issue with regard to the

passenger safety, considering the fact that the aggregators

allegedly are beginning to have a lion's share of the taxi sector

under their belt, the requirement of their taxi's having a panic

button is neither unreasonable, nor arbitrary. For a thousand mile

journey begins with the first step. (Of course, later in the judgment

we will revisit this topic of "panic button", but in different context).

But as far as Article 14 of the Constitution of India is concerned,

Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules does not violate the said Article. 88. As far as the requirement laid down by Rule 10 (h) of the

Aggregator Rules is concerned, the learned Senior Counsel has

challenged the same ostensibly on the ground that the

CTS Scheme does not require an Operator to get the antecedents of

the driver verified prior to hiring the driver, while the said Rule

places the burden upon an Aggregator to verify the taxi drivers 118 antecedents by the police even before the driver is allowed to use

the platform. 89. A bare perusal of condition No.6 (2) of the CTS Scheme

clearly reveals that a driver is required to have a driving license

and a badge authorising him to drive a motor cab. According to Section 9 (8) of the Act, a Licensing Authority may refuse to issue a

driving license to a person if it is satisfied that the person is a

habitual criminal, or a habitual drunkard, or is a habitual addict

to any drug of psychotropic substance, or is a person whose

license to drive any motor vehicle has at any time earlier been

revoked. Moreover, according to Section 19 of the Act, even after a

driving license has been granted by the licensing authority, even

then the driving license can be revoked if the licensing authority is

satisfied that the person has used, or is using a motor vehicle in

the commission of a cognizable offence, or by his previous conduct

as a driver of motor vehicle shown that is driving likely to be

attended with danger to the public, the licensing authority my

either disqualify the person for a specified period for holding or

obtaining any driving license or revoking such license. Thus, the

grant and the refusal to grant, and the revocation of a license are 119 dependent upon the antecedents of the driver. Hence, before a

license is granted to a driver and even thereafter, a police

verification is carried out. 90. Even the provisions regarding grant of a badge under

the KMV Rules require that criminal antecedents of a driver is to

be verified before granting the badge. Thus, a driver employed by

an operator is also put through a screening process to ensure that

his antecedents are bonafide. Although Rule 10 (h) of the Rules

require the aggregator to get the antecedents of the driver verified,

but even the said verification has to be done through the police.

Therefore, an unreasonable condition is not been placed upon the

aggregator as claimed by the petitioner-Company. Moreover,

according to the petitioner-Company itself, it has clearly held out

to the public that before it registers a driver on its platform, it does

get the driver's antecedents examined and verified. Hence, the

contention raised by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner-

Company is more academic than legal. 91. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioner-Company, has further pleaded that under Rule 11 of the 120 Aggregator Rules, the sword of Damocles has been placed on the

aggregator's head that its license may be suspended or cancelled if

any of the conditions of the Aggregator Rules is not satisfied.

However, no such liability is imposed upon the permit holder

under the CTS Scheme. 92. A bare perusal of Section 66 of the Act clearly reveals

that Section 66 of the Act makes it mandatory for an owner of a

motor vehicle to have a permit before using the vehicle as a

transport vehicle in any public place. 93. Section 74 of the Act deals with grant of a contract

carriage permit. Section 74 (2) of the Act empowers the Regional

Transport Authority to attach anyone or more of the conditions in Section 74 (2) to the permit to be granted under the Section 74 of

the Act. 94. Section 84 of the Act deals with general conditions

attached to all the permits. Most importantly, Section 86 of the Act

empowers the transport authority to suspend or to cancel a permit

on the breach of any conditions specified in Section 84 of the Act,

or of any condition contained in the permit. Therefore, if the 121 permit holder or the driver violates any of the conditions of the

permit, under Section 86 of the Act, the permit can be suspended,

or cancelled by the transport authority. Thus an operator under

the CTS Scheme is equally liable to ensure that his/her driver does

not violate the permit conditions. Moreover, in case, the driver

does violate a permit condition, the operator faces the same

liability of having his/her permit cancelled or suspended, as does

an aggregator under Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules. Although

there may be minor differences in the grounds for suspending, or

canceling a license under the Aggregator Rules, or a Permit under

the CTS Scheme, but such minor differences cannot be said to

violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. For, Article 14 does

not enjoin that there should be mathematical accuracy in

maintaining equality. A deviation, here and there, is permissible,

provided the deviation is neither unreasonable, nor arbitrary. 95. Thus, as far as arguments raised by Mr. Sajan Poovayya,

the learned Senior Counsel, is concerned suffice it to say that an

Aggregator under the Aggregator Rules, and an Operator under the

CTS Scheme are two distinct and separate classes. They do not

form a homogenous category. Therefore, both the classes can be 122 subjected to different controls and regulations. Moreover, even if

theoretically they are accepted to be a single class, even then, both

the Aggregator and the Operator are subjected to similar controls

and regulations. Hence, the liabilities imposed by the Aggregator

Rules do not violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India.

Exclusion of All India Permit Holders from the Aggregator
Rules and Article 14 of the Constitution of India: 96. Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior counsel, has further

challenged the Aggregator Rules as violative of Article 14 of the

Constitution of India, but on a totally different premise. The

learned Senior counsel submits that although prima-facie the

Aggregator Rules may appear to deal with the aggregators as a

class, but the effect of the Rules falls upon the permit holders and

the drivers. Therefore, while examining the constitutional validity

of the Aggregator Rules, the said Rules would also have to be

interpreted from the point of view of these two categories, namely

the permit holder and the drivers. In order to buttress this plea

that the effect of the Rule will also have to be considered, the

learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the case of State of

Kerala & Ors. v Unni & Ano . [ (2007) 2 SCC 365]. 97. Further, according to the Senior counsel, the Act deals

with three different types of permits for Contract Carriages: firstly,

the permit granted to a taxi owner under Section 74 of the Act;

Secondly, "the special permits" granted under Section 88 (8) of the

Act to a taxi holder who wants to ply the taxi beyond the region for

which his permit has been granted under Section 74 of the Act.

Thirdly, the permit granted to the All India Tourist vehicle, granted

under Section 88 (9) of the Act. Although these permits may be

different, but they all relate to the Contract Carriage. Hence, they

form a homogeneous class. 98. Relying on the case of S. Kannan v. Karnataka State

Road Transport Authority [ (1984) 1 SCC 375] the learned

Senior Counsel has pleaded that regular taxis and the All India

Tourist vehicles are included in the category of Contract Carriages.

The only difference between a regular taxi (whose permit is granted

under Section 74 of the Act), and the All India Tourist vehicles

(whose permit is granted under Section 88 (9) of the Act), is the

territorial extent to which the taxi can be plied. While the former

can be plied in a limited region, the latter can be plied on a all 124 India basis. But nonetheless, both the categories of taxis fall within

a homogenous class of being a Contract Carriage. Rule 10 (n) of the Aggregator Rules clearly stipulates that a

licence issued to an aggregator shall cover taxis with a permit

granted under Section 74 , or under Section 88 (8) of the Act.

However, the Aggregator Rules do not cover the permit holders

under Section 88 (9) of the Act. Hence, the permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act cannot register themselves with an

aggregator under the Aggregator Rules. Therefore, the distinction

being made between a regular taxi and an All India Tourist vehicle

by the Aggregator Rules leads to an artificial bifurcation of a

homogenous class. Therefore, such a classification violates Article

14 of the Constitution of India. Such an artificial classification does not bear any nexus with

the object of the Aggregator Rules, for the safety of the passengers

is as essential in an All India Tourist vehicle as it is in a regular

taxi provided by an Aggregator. Such exclusion is further aggravated by the fact that in the

Advisory issued by the Central Government, on 08.10.2015, to the 125 State Government, permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act

were required to be included in the Aggregator Rules. In fact, in the

draft of the Aggregator Rules, such permit holders were included in

the Aggregator Rules. However, when the Aggregator Rules were

published finally, the permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the

Act were excluded from the purview of the Aggregator Rules. But,

despite the recommendation made by the Central Government the

State Government has ignored the same. The total exclusion of permit holders under Section 88 (9) of

the Act, from the Aggregator Rules, moreover, leads to a very

curious position. For, Section 88 (8) of the Act also includes

permit holders under Section 88 (9) who have sought "a special

permit" for plying to a taxi beyond the minimum of three States as

required under Section 88 (9) of the Act. Thus, this particular

category of All India Tourist vehicle permit holders would be

entitled to register themselves with an aggregator. But, meanwhile

other All India Tourist vehicle permit holders, who are not included

within Section 88 (8) of the Act, they would not be permitted to

register with an aggregator under the Aggregator Rules. Such an

anomalous situation could not have been intended by the 126 Government. Thus, the exclusion of permit holders under Section

88 (9) of the Act is clearly unreasonable and arbitrary. It is in

violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 99. On the other hand, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned

Additional Advocate General for the State, and Prof. Ravi Verma

Kumar, the learned Senior Counsel representing the Association of

Radio Taxis in W.P.No.30191/2016, have countered the stand

taken by Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel. 100. Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar has drawn the attention of

this court to the Statement of Objects and Reasons to Bill No. XIX

of 1965, which sought to amend the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 ("the

Act of 1939", for short), and to incorporate Section 63 (7) into the

said Act. Since the original Act of 1939 did not deal with grant of

All India Tourist Vehicle Tourist Vehicle Permit, since the tourists

faced the problem of not being able to hire taxis on a all India

basis, the Parliament amended and incorporated Section 63 (7)

into the Act of 1939. Section 63 (7) of the Act of 1939 is similar to Section 88 (9) of the Act of 1988. Since both the provisions are

mutatis mutandis, the Statement of Object and Reasons for 127 incorporation of Section 67 (3) can be considered while interpreting Section 88 (9) of the Act. 101. Moreover, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ashutosh Swain & Ors. v State Transport Authority & Ors. [ (1985) 2 SCC 636], and a learned Division Bench of this court in

the case of State of Karnataka v. Mohammed Illyas [ ILR 1993

KAR 2812] have held that tourist vehicles can carry only tourists,

and not local commuters. In fact, in the latter case, this court has

differentiated between a commuter and a tourist. Secondly, the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 (in short

"the CMV Rules"), contain provisions with regard to grant of

"tourist permits", "additional conditions of tourist permits" and

"additional conditions of every tourist permit in respect of motor

cabs". Rule 82 of the CMV Rules requires that the owner of a

tourist vehicle should submit an application for a permit to the

State Transport Authority in Form No.45 attached to the CMV

Rules. Rule 85 of the CMV Rules prescribes additional conditions

which shall be attached with a tourist permit. Rule 85 (1) of the CMV Rules requires a permit holder to

prepare, in respect of each trip, a list of "tourist passengers".

Thus, according to the learned Senior Counsel, Prof. Ravi Verma

Kumar, the tourist vehicle is meant only for "tourists" and not for

commuters. In order to strengthen the above plea, the learned Counsel

have also relied upon the Motor Vehicles (All India Permit for

Tourists Transport Operators ) Rule, 1993 ("the Tourist Transport

Operators Rules" for short). The said Rules have been formulated

under Section 88 (9) read with Section 88 (14) of the Act. These

Rules clearly emphasise that "a tourist transport operator" is an

individual or a company "engaged in the business of promotion of

tourism by providing tourist transport vehicles on tourist circuits".

The word "tourist circuit" is defined by Rule 2 (h) of the Tourist

Transport Operators Rules as meaning "all places of tourist interest

situated in a State for which package tours are prepared and sold

by the recognised tourist transport operator". Under these Rules, a

tourist transport operator is required to obtain an authorisation

certificate from the State Transport Authority under Rule 4 of the

Tourist Transport Operators Rules. According to the learned 129 Senior Counsel these Rules clearly reveal that" tourist vehicles" within a given State. Hence, All India Tourist vehicle permit

holders, the permits holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act,

cannot carry a local commuter/ passenger. In order to buttress

this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the case of Mohammed Illyas (supra). Therefore, the State is justified in

excluding such permit holders from the purview of the Aggregator

Rules. Both the learned Counsel have also emphasised that All

India Tourist Vehicle Permit is granted under Section 88 (9) of the

Act, only to "Tourist Vehicles" and that, too, "for the purpose of

promoting tourism". Further, All India Tourist Permit Holder are

required to carry only tourists in their motor vehicles, both by law

and according to case law. Such permit holders can neither ply

their taxis intra-city, nor carry a local commuter in the said taxi.

However, many All India Tourist vehicle permit holders, in

collusion with the Aggregators, were misusing the All India Tourist

vehicle permit by carrying local commuters within the city of

Bengaluru. Therefore, in order to get rid of this mischief, All India 130 Tourist vehicle permit holders are not included under Rule 10 (n)

of the Aggregator Rules. Thirdly, Section 88 (9) of the Act begins with a non-obstante

clause, and subjects the permit issued under sub- section 9 to "any

rules that may be made by the Central Government under sub- section 14 " of Section 88 of the Act. Section 88 (14) (a) of the Act

empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out

the provision "of this Section". Section 88 (14) (b) of the Act

prescribes the specific topics for which the Central Government

may provide the Rules. According to both the learned counsel, the

Central Government has promulgated the Motor Vehicles (All India

Permit Tourist Transport Operators) Rules, 1993. Since the

Central Government has already formulated the Rules governing

the All India Tourist Vehicle Permit, therefore, the State is

precluded from framing any Rules which would cover All India

Tourist Vehicle Permits. In order to buttress this plea, the learned

Counsel have relied upon State of Andhra Pradesh v. B.

Noorulla Khan and Another [ (2004) 6 SCC 194]. Hence

according to them the State Government could not have included 131 the permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act within the

Aggregator Rules. 102. In rejoinder, Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior

Counsel, has pleaded that neither the definition of "tourist vehicle" Fourthly, Rule 85 of the CMV Rules clearly state that the

additional conditions to a tourist permit for a tourist vehicle,

mentioned in the Rules, shall not apply to a motor cab under Section 88 (9) of the Act. The taxis owned by the permit holder

under Section 88 (9) of the Act fall in the category of motor cabs.

Hence, the additional conditions imposed by Rule 85 of the CMV

Rules, namely that the permit holder shall prepare "a list of tourist

passengers" is inapplicable to the All India Tourist Taxis permit

holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act. Fifthly, Rule 85-A of the CMV Rules prescribes an additional

condition for "tourist permit in respect of motor cabs". Even this

particular Rule does not limit the status of the passengers carried

in a tourist vehicle only to "a tourist". Sixthly, the respondents have erred in relying upon the

Tourist Transport Operators Rules. For, the said Rules are

applicable to only those tourist transport operators who wish to ply

their tourist vehicles within the tourist circuits. It is a scheme

floated by the Central Government for a specific purpose of

promoting tourism, within the tourist circuits, situated in a State. 134 Thus, the Tourist Transport Operators Rules are inapplicable to

All India Tourist vehicle permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the

Act. Therefore, the requirement of Tourist Transport Operators

Rules cannot be read against the permit holders under Section 88

(9) of the Act. Hence, the learned counsel for respondents are

unjustified in relying upon the Tourist Transport Operators Rules. Seventhly, it is a settled principle of law that a bar has to be

expressly placed by law; it cannot be read by a court into a

provision of law. According to the learned Senior Counsel, in the

case of Mohammed Illyas (supra), the learned Division Bench of

this court has read a bar, although such a prohibition does not

exist in the law. Since the casus omissus could not have been

supplied, the learned Division Bench has erred in reading the bar.

Moreover, the learned Division Bench has ignored the fact that

Rule 85 of the CMV Rules does not apply to a motor cab i.e., to a

taxi. Hence , the said judgment , according to the learned Senior

Counsel, is per incuriam. Thus, not binding on this court. Eighthly, the learned counsel for respondents are unjustified

in relying upon the case of Noorulla Khan (supra). For, the said 135 case is distinguishable on the factual matrix. In the said case, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt with a State Rule which was

repugnant to the Central Rules formulated under Sections 88(9) and 88 (14) of the Act. Therefore, the Apex Court opined that

where the Central Government has framed the Rules under 88 (9)

read with 88 (14) of the Act, the State cannot frame any Rule.

However, the Apex Court has not laid down a universal principle of

law. Therefore, the State is not justified in taking the stand that it

cannot frame any Rules for All India Tourist vehicle permit holders,

since the Central Government has framed the necessary Rules.

For, the advisory issued by the Central Government did not

prohibit the State Government from including the permit holders

under Section 88 (9) of the Act within the Aggregator Rules. In fact,

the Central Government advised the State Government to include

such All India Tourist vehicle permit holders within the Aggregator

Rules. The States of Maharashtra and West Bengal, the Union

Territory of Chandigarh have included the All India permit holders

of Section 88 (9) of the Act within their respective Aggregator Rules.

Hence, the State can frame Rules even if the Central Rules occupy 136 the same field, provided the State Rules are not repugnant to the

Central Rules. Furthermore, the pith and substance of the Aggregator Rules

is to control the aggregators. Even if some provisions of the

Aggregator Rules may incidentally trespass into the Rules made by

the Central Government for the All India Permit Holders, even then

the question of repugnancy would not arise. For, the Aggregator

Rules vis-a-vis the All India Tourist vehicle permit holders would be

protected by the doctrine of Pith and Substance. Moreover, as of today, the Central Government has not

framed any rules for the aggregators. Therefore, the question of

the State Aggregator Rules being repugnant to the Central

Aggregator Rules would not even arise. Further, Sections 93 , 95 and 96 (2) of the Act, empower the

State Government to make Rules. Thus, under these provisions,

the State would be justified in making the Rules for the All India

Permit Holder, and to include them within the folds of the

Aggregator Rules, provided the State Rules are not repugnant to 137 the Central Rules dealing with the All India Tourist Vehicle

Permits. Lastly, the provisions of the Karnataka Motor Vehicle Rules

("KMV Rules" for short) itself contain ample provisions whereby the

State Government is regulating the All India Tourist vehicle permit

holders who fall under Section 88 (9) of the Act. Thus, the stand

taken by the State, that it cannot frame any rules qua the All India

Tourist vehicle permit, is belied by the KMV Rules. Hence, the

State should have included the All India Tourist vehicle permit

holders under Section 88(9) of the Act within the Aggregator Rules.

Their exclusion is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 103. Yarns of different arguments have been woven about

the exclusion of All India Tourist vehicle permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act from the purview of the Aggregator Rules.

Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel, has textured his

arguments with dexterity and lucidity to argue that such an

exclusion of permit holder is violative of Article 14 of the

Constitution. On the other hand, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned

Additional Advocate General, and Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar, the 138 learned Senior Counsel for Association of Radio Taxis, respondent

No.3 in W.P.No.30191/2016, have torn into Mr. Udaya Holla's

arguments in order to take up a contrary position. 104. Before entering into the core issue whether such

exclusion violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India or not, it is

essential to consider the genesis of Section 88 (9) of the Act. For

the genesis of the provision would reveal its niche in the

architectural setting of the Act; it would also throw light on the

constitutional issue about the violation of Article 14 of the

Constitution of India. 105. Section 88 (9) of the Act, which deals with grant of

permit for the All India Tourist vehicles, is in pari materia with Section 63 (7) of the Act of 1939. Sub-section (7) of Section 63 of

the Act of 1939 was introduced by way of an amendment in order

to fill in a gap which existed in the Act of 1939. 106. Initially the Act of 1939 did not contain any provision

for grant of permit on an inter-regional or inter-State basis.

Therefore, the tourists coming to India faced great hardship in

hiring taxis for their travels within limited parts of the country, or 139 on an All India basis. The lack of such taxis adversely affected the

tourism industry in the country. Considering the tourism potential

of the country, well aware of the challenges faced by the tourist, in

1965, the Parliament decided to introduce certain amendments in

the Act of 1939. 107. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of

the said Amendment Bill, "The main purpose of the Bill is to provide

for ....liberalisation of restrictions on inter-State movement of motor

vehicles including tourist vehicles; provision of better facilities and

amenities in tourist vehicles..." Clause 2, sub-clause (e) dealing with tourist taxis is as

under: It has been considered that the interests of tourist traffic
 require the grant of regular inter-regional and inter-State
 permits for vehicles exclusively for tourists. Operation of
 these tourist vehicles will be subject to certain special
 conditions in the interest of the passengers. (Emphasis added). Thus, Sub- section 7 was introduced into Section 63 of the

Act of 1939 with the particular purpose mentioned in the

Statement of Object and Reasons, namely the introduction of a

new class of permits for a new category of Contract Carriage: 108. In the case of Ashutosh Swain and Others (supra) the

Hon'ble Supreme Court was concerned with the scope and ambit of

the All India Tourist Permit issued under Section 63 (7) of the Act

of 1939. The Apex Court had noticed the object and statements

mentioned above for introducing the amendments in Section 63 of

the Act of 1939. 109. Since Section 88 (9) of the Act is pari materia to Section

63 (7) of the Act of 1939; the Statement of Object and Reasons

makes it abundantly clear that the All India Tourist Vehicle

Permits issued under Section 88 (9) of the Act are meant for those

vehicles which are used only "for vehicles used exclusively for

tourists". 110. Notwithstanding the above mentioned Reasons and

Object of Section 63 (7) of the Act of Act of 1939, and its inter-

relationship Section 88 (9) of the Act, Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned

Senior Counsel, has argued that the definition of "tourist vehicle" 111. However, the said argument is clearly untenable. For

the very use of the word "tourist" with the word "vehicle" clearly

indicates the purpose for which the vehicle should be used.

Therefore, the purpose for which the vehicle has to be used is

inherently built into the very words "tourist vehicle". Thus, for the

Parliament to say that a tourist vehicle "should be used only for

tourists" would tantamount to indulging in tautology. Hence, it is

not surprising that the Parliament, in its wisdom, has not explicitly

said what is implicitly contained in the words "tourist vehicle",

and "tourist permit" used both in Section 88 (9) of the Act and in

Rule 82 of the CMV Rules. 112. Moreover, one cannot ignore the fact that according to Section 88 (9) of the Act, the permit is granted "for the purpose of 143 promoting tourism". Of course, Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior

Counsel, has vehemently argued that in today's day and age, there

are several means and methods for promoting tourism. One of the

best ways is to provide comfortable taxis for long distance travels

to the tourists. One cannot disagree with the position taken by the

learned Senior Counsel. But, even then, such permits would be

limited only for those vehicles which ply "tourists". 113. To rein in the vast interpretation given by Mr. Udaya

Holla to Section 88 (9) of the Act, Mr. A. S. Poonanna and

Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar have relied upon Rules 82, 85 and 85 A of

the CMV Rules in order to buttress their plea that a tourist vehicle

is permitted to carry only tourists. But according to Mr. Holla even

these provisions do not explicitly restrict the use of the All India

Tourist Taxis only to the use of "tourists". Mr. Udaya Holla's

argument is valid for Rule 85 of the CMV Rules. But his plea is

invalid with regard to Rule 82 and 85 A of the CMV Rules. 114. Mr. Udaya Holla is certainly justified in claiming that

Rule 85 of the CMV Rules is inapplicable to the All India Tourist

Permit issued under Section 88 (9) of the Act. The rule itself states 144 that "these conditions shall not apply to a motor cab under sub- section 9 of Section 88 of the Act". Thus, the conditions mentioned

in Rule 85 of the CMV Rules are inapplicable to the All India

Tourist Vehicle Permit issued under Section 88 (9) of the Act.

To this limited extent his plea is legally valid. However, Rule 82 of the CMV Rules deals with submission of

an application for grant of permit in respect of a "tourist vehicle" Moreover, it is imperative to clearly indicate above the registration

number plates an inscription stating "Tourist Permit valid in the

State(s) of ....... " can be carried in a "tourist" vehicle having a "tourist" permit. For,

what is obvious need not be stated. Hence, Mr. Udaya Holla is

unjustified in claiming that Rules 82 and 85 A of the Rules does

not limit the All India Tourist Permit to those vehicles which are to

be used only for "tourists". In fact, implicitly these provisions limit

the use of the vehicles solely for the tourists. 115. Prof. Ravi Verma Kumar has tried to take advantage of

the Tourist Transport Operators Rules in order to buttress his plea

that "tourist vehicles" are meant only for the "tourists". However,

his reliance on the said Rules is highly misplaced. For, Rule 1 (4) of

the said Rules clearly stipulates that "Rule 82 to 85A of the CMV

Rules shall not apply to the permits granted under this scheme".

This clearly indicates that the said Rules apply to a smaller

category of permit holders, namely to the Tourist Transport

Operators. The Rules require a Tourist Transport Operator to have 146 an Authorisation Certificate issued by the State Transport

Authority for plying the vehicles owned by the operator on "Tourist

Circuit". The words "Tourist Circuit" has been defined by Rule

2 (h) of the Rules as meaning, "all places of tourist interest situated

in a State for which package tours are prepared and sold by the

recognized Tourist Transport Operator." Thus, the said Rules do

not apply to all the All India Tourist vehicle permit holders.

Therefore, Prof. Verma's reliance on the said Rules is unjustified. 116. However, in the cacophony of arguments one melody

does survive: a permit issued under Section 88 (9) of the Act is

only for those vehicles which shall be used "solely or exclusively

for transporting tourists". Hence, called "tourist vehicles".

Therefore, the tourist vehicles cannot carry commuters. 117. However, the moot questions before this court are

whether the exclusion of All India Tourist Permit, granted under Section 88 (9) of the Act, from the purview of the Aggregator Rules

would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India or not?

And whether the State is justified in excluding the All India Tourist 147 Vehicle permit holders from the purview of the Aggregator Rules or

not ? 118. Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel, has

pleaded that since all the permits issued under Sections 74 , 88 (8) and 88 (9) of the Act relate to Contract Carriages, therefore, all the

permit holders form a homogenous class. Therefore, the All India

permit holders could not be excluded from the ambit of the

Aggregator Rules. For such an exclusion would artificially bifurcate

an homogenous category of permit holders and would treat equals

as unequals. Moreover, the bifurcation has no nexus to the object

of the Aggregator Rules. Hence, Article 14 of the Constitution of

India is violated. However, his position is legally untenable. 119. "Contract Carriage" is defined under Section 2 (7) of the

Act. The definition is a vast one. It includes both maxi cab as

defined under Section 2 (22) of the Act, and a motor cab as defined

under Section 2 (25) of the Act. Thus, the said definition merely

defines a genus. However, Sections 74 , 88 (8) and 88 (9) of the Act, trifurcate

the genus of Contract Carriage into three different species. While 148 Section 74 of the Act deals with grant of permits to vehicles which

are plied in a limited region mentioned in the permit, Section 88 (8) of the Act deals with a 'special permit' granted to a vehicle which

needs to go beyond the limited territory mentioned in the permit

issued under Section 74 of the Act. Moreover, Section 88 (9) of the

Act deals with grant of permit to motor vehicles which are to be

used as Taxis on inter-regional or all India basis. Therefore, merely

because the three species of permit holders relate to the genus of

Contract Carriages, the three species cannot be said to belong to a

single homogenous class. Biologically speaking, each species is in

a separate category by itself. The species cannot and do not breed

amongst each other. Thus, the three different permits granted

under Sections 74 , 88 (8) and 88 (9) of the Act form separate and

distinct classes by themselves. 120. The distinction between the three permits is also

obvious from the fact that a permit under Section 74 of the Act is

limited to a specified geographical region in which contract

carriage vehicle is permitted to ply. A Special Permit under Section

88 (8) of the Act, allows the contract carriage to travel a bit beyond

the limited region for which it was granted a permit under Section 149 74 of the Act. Therefore, Section 88 (8) of the Act allows the vehicle

a slightly wider area to cover. However, under Section 88 (9) of the

Act, the minimum area to be covered is three States, and the

maximum area is the entire country. Therefore, a permit issued

under Section 74 of the Act is at a micro level, whereas the permit

issued under Section 88 (9) of the Act is at a macro level. 121. A distinction also has been maintained between Section

74 and Section 88 (9) of the Act. While a permit under Section 74 relates to carrying of commuters, a permit under Section 88 (9) of

the Act is called a "Tourist" Permit. The use of the word "Tourist"

which precedes the word Permit cannot be ignored. The use of the

said word harks back to the Statement of Objects and Reasons for

amending Section 63 of the Act of 1939: the vehicle must be "used

solely or exclusively for tourists". Thus, the permit under Section

88 (9) of the Act is meant for those vehicles which are used "only

for the tourists". Hence, the permit under Section 74 and under Section 88 (9) of the Act also differ with regard to the status of the

passenger. 122. In the case of Mohammad Illiyas (supra) this court

has elaborately discussed the distinction between "the

commuters", and 'the tourists." According to the learned Division

Bench, a tourist is a person who undertakes a journey through a

country, from place to place, for the purpose of excursion. The

purpose of travelling is sightseeing i.e., to enjoy historical

monuments, or natural places. The purpose of traveling is not to

fulfill a personal requirements like meeting friends or relatives or

for discharging any social or service obligations at the place of

destination. On the other hand, a commuter reaches his

destination for a specific private purpose and not for enjoying the

sightseeing. Hence, Mr. Udaya Holla is unjustified in claiming that

the permit holders under Sections 74 , 88 (8) , and 88 (9) of the Act

form a homogenous category. In fact, the Act treats the All Inida

Tourist Vehicle permit holders as distinct and separate classes.

Since the permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act are a

distinct class by themselves, their exclusion from the Aggregator

Rules does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Once

this court has held so, then this court need not enter the issue

whether such an exclusion is justified or not. 123. However, one more issue still remains to be resolved,

namely whether the State is justified in its stand that it could not

make any rule qua the permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the

Act or not ? 124. Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional Advocate

General has taken refuge under Section 88 (9) read with Section 88

(14) of the Act to argue that the permit given under Section 88 (9) is subject to the Rules made by the Central Government under

sub- section 14 of Section 88 of the Act. Since the Central

Government has made the Rules with regard to the All India

Permit, therefore, the State is precluded from making any Rule

dealing with All India Permits. In order to buttress this plea, the

learned Counsel has relied on the case of B. Noorulla Khan and

Another (supra). 125. However, the position taken by Mr. A. S. Ponnanna is

clearly unacceptable. For, the phraseology used in Section 88 (8) and in Section 88 (9) of the Act is similar in its content. Both the

sub-sections begin with non-obstante clause clearly stating,

"notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1)". 152 While Section 88 (8) uses the words "but subject to any Rules that

may be made under this Act by the Central Government". Section

88 (9) uses the words "but subject to any Rules that may be made

by the Central Government under sub-section (14)". Sub- section 14 ,

on the other hand, empowers the Central Government to make

Rules for carrying out "the provisions of this Section". Since the

phraseology of Section 88 (8) and Section 88 (9) is similar, it

cannot be argued by the State that it cannot make any Rules with

regard to vehicles covered by Section 88 (9) of the Act. 126. Moreover, it cannot be forgotten that the Central

Government in its Advisory dated 08.10.2015 did not prevent the

State from including a permit holder under Section 88 (9) of the

Act within the Aggregator Rules. In fact, Condition No. 3 deals

with the vehicle profile. Condition 3.1 states that "every vehicle

that is operated for a journey booked via an aggregator platform

should hold relevant permit to ply in the given area of operation."

While using the words "relevant permit", the words are not qualified

by making a reference to Sections 74 , 88 (8) or 88 (9) of the Act.

Thus, the permit could be issued under any of these Sections.

Hence, the Central Government did not preclude the State 153 Government from including a permit holder under Section 88 (9) of

the Act, within the folds of the Aggregator Rules. Interestingly,

based on the same Advisory issued by the Central Government to

the other States, the State of Maharashtra and West Bengal and

the Union Territory of Chandigarh have included the permit

holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act within their respective

Aggregator Rules. 127. Hence, the learned Additional Advocate General is

unjustified in claiming that the State cannot make any Rules for

vehicles covered under Section 88 (9) of the Act. 128. But the Advisory issued by the Central Government

merely enables the State Government to include the All India

permit holder under Section 88 (9) of the Act within its Aggregator

Rules. Such an Advisory is not binding upon the State

Government, as it is merely a recommendation made by the

Central Government to the State Government. Moreover, just

because a few States and a Union Territory have included the All

India permit holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act, within its

Aggregator Rules, would not impose a legal duty upon the 154 Government of Karnataka to do the same. However, as the permit

holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act form a class in themselves,

it is the discretion of the State to include them within the

Aggregator Rules or not. Merely because they have been excluded

from the Aggregator Rules, would not make the Rule 10 (n) as

violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 129. The case of B. Noorulla Khan and Another (supra) is

distinguishable on its factual matrix. Thus, it does not come to the

rescue of the respondent State. In fact, the State Government is

competent to frame the rules, provided that the State rules are not

contrary to the rules promulgated by the Central government.

Hence, the State is unjustified in claiming that since the Central

Government has framed the rules under the CMV Rules, the State

cannot formulate its rules. 130. Mr. Udaya Holla, the learned Senior Counsel, has also

led the charge in claiming that the Aggregator Rules violate Article

19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India. Mr. Udaya Holla submits that the All India Tourist Vehicle

permit holders, covered by Section 88 (9) of the Act, were included

in the draft of the Aggregator Rules published by the State

Government. But in the Aggregator Rules finally promulgated by

the State, the said category is excluded. For, Rules 7 (a) and 10 (n)

recognise only two classes of transport vehicles which are

permitted to register with the Aggregators, namely those permit

holders who have been granted the permit under Section 74 of the

Act, and those who have been granted the permit under Section 88

(8) of the Act. Therefore, the category of All India Tourist Vehicle

permit holders is excluded from the purview of the Rules.

Consequently, such permit holders are prevented from registering

with an Aggregator. Therefore, they are denied the benefits which

would arise from registering with the Aggregator. Hence, the

permit holder's fundamental rights under Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India is being violated by the State. The learned Senior counsel has also challenged the

constitutionality of Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules. The said

provision imposes a duty upon the aggregator to ensure that

"vehicles entered in his licence do not operate independently or 156 accept booking directly". According to the learned Senior Counsel,

the permit holders and the taxi drivers are prohibited from

operating independently, and from accepting booking

independently, if they are registered with an aggregator. This

clearly violates their fundamental right to carry on a business.

Moreover, such a restriction is not in public interest. For, an idle

taxi cannot be used by the general public if it is registered with an

aggregator. Hence, Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules is an

unreasonable restriction on the fundamental rights of the permit

holders and the taxi drivers. 131. Similarly, Mr. Anish Munu, the learned counsel for

petitioner in W.P.No.30191/2016, has pleaded the cause of start

ups. According to the learned counsel, Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator

Rules prescribes a minimum number of 100 taxis which should be

either owned, or leased by an aggregator, before the aggregator can

seek a licence under the Aggregator Rules. However, a start up

would find it extremely difficult to meet the minimum limit of 100

taxis. Moreover, as a start up is not a permit holder under Section

74 of the Act, he/she is not covered by the CTS Scheme. Thus, a

start up is caught in a limbo, for he/she is covered neither by the 157 CTS Scheme, nor under the Aggregator Rules. Hence, the start ups

cannot enter the taxi sector. Therefore, the higher threshold of

having a minimum number of 100 taxis violates the fundamental

right of a start up under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of

India. 132. Per contra, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional

Advocate General, submits that the fundamental right to carry on

a trade or business is not an absolute right. The said right can be

restricted in the interest of the general public. Since the

Aggregator Rules have been made in the interest of the general

public, they cannot be said to violate Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India. However, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna has frankly

conceded that the restriction placed on the permit holder and the

drivers "not to operate independently or to book directly" is an

unreasonable restriction and is violative of Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India. 133. As far as the arguments of Mr. Anish Munu are

concerned, Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned Senior Counsel,

contended that the writ petition filed on behalf the Start ups is 158 bereft of any details. The petitioner has not given any details about

their technological platform. They merely claim that they are eager

to start a taxi business using the technological platform. Moreover,

the petition seem to have been filed on the behalf of unknown

individuals as the petitioner has raised arguments on behalf of the

aggregators although the petitioner is not an aggregator. The

learned Senior counsel has further reiterated his earlier argument

that the minimum requirement of hundred taxis is a legislative

policy, which cannot be interfered by this court. 134. On the other hand, Prof Verma Kumar, the learned

Senior Counsel has pleaded that in the case of B. A. Jayaram and

Ors v. Union of India and Ors. [(1984) 1 SCC 168] the Hon'ble

Supreme Court had noticed that how the grant of All India Tourist

Vehicle Permits were abused in Karnataka by plying the contract

carriages as stage carriages. Similarly, even today, the All India

Tourist Vehicle permit holders are abusing the permit and are

plying commuters intra-city whereas they are supposed to carry

only tourists. Since the All India Tourist Vehicle permit holders are

violating the law, the State Government is justified in excluding the

said category from the purview of the Aggregator Rules. Since the 159 exclusion is in the interest of the public, the same is protected by Article 19 (6) of the Constitution of India. 135. Mr. Udaya Holla's argument that exclusion of permit

holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act from the Aggregator Rules

violates their fundamental right under Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India is unacceptable. For, the fundamental right

to carry on any trade, profession or business is not an absolute

right. It can be restricted under Article 19 (6) of the Constitution of

India on the ground of "interest of the general public". Secondly, even in the case of B. A. Jayaram and Others (supra) the Apex Court had noticed the fact that the All India

Tourist Vehicle permit holders were engaging in violating the

conditions and purpose of the permit. According to the Apex Court

it was a prevalent problem in Karnataka. This allegation has also

been leveled against the All India permit holders before this court.

Thus, the permit holders were/ are violating the very purpose for

which the permit is granted. In order to get rid of this mischief, the

State was justified, in the interest of the general public, in

excluding the category of All India Permit Holders from the ambit of 160 the Aggregator Rules. Since the exclusion is in the interest of

general public, it is saved by Article 19 (6) of the Constitution of

India. 136. As far as the challenge to Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator

Rules is concerned, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional

Advocate General, has already conceded that the said Rule is in

violation of Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India. Therefore,

the same need not detain us. Thus, the State is not justified in

preventing the permit holders from operating independently or

from accepting booking directly from the passengers/ users of the

taxi. Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules is, thus, unconstitutional. 137. The writ petition filed by Mr. Munu is of doubtful

origin. For the writ petition is devoid of any details about the

alleged activities of the petitioner. Although the petitioner claims

that they would like to start a business as an aggregator, but the

petitioner has not submitted any details about their technological

platform. Moreover, a bare perusal of the writ petition reveals that

the petitioner has raised many arguments which have been raised

by the petitioner-Company. Therefore, the said writ petition seems 161 to be at the behest of someone who has not come to this court with

clean hands. Thus, the writ petition deserves to be dismissed on

this ground alone. 138. Even otherwise, Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned Senior

Counsel, is justified in claiming that the minimum requirement of

100 Taxis is a legislative policy decision taken by the Government.

Hence, the same cannot be set aside by this court. Generally, a

Court does not, and should not, interfere with the laying down of a

cut off number. For, to enter into the question of cut off numbers

is to step on to a slippery slope. An 'X' number set up by the State

can always be questioned by a litigant. But the Court is concerned

not with the 'soundness' of the policy, but only with its 'legality'.

Since the State does have the power to formulate the Aggregator

Rules, as opined above, the State is free to decide the number of

taxis an aggregator should have before he is required to take a

license under the Aggregator Rules. 139. Moreover, even if the argument that the State should

encourage the start-ups to enter the taxi sector were to be

accepted, even then, it is for the State to decide the ways and 162 means to encourage the Start-ups in this sector. Therefore, this

court refrains itself from declaring the minimum requirement of

100 Taxis as being in violation of Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India. Hence, Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules

does not violate Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India.

The Aggregator Rules and Article 21 of the Constitution
of India : Therefore, an aggregator would lose its business, thereby adversely

affecting its right to carry on a business under Article 19 (1) (g) of

the Constitution of India. Since the Aggregator Rules violate the

right of privacy of a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution,

and violate the right of the petitioner under Article 19 (1) (g) of the

Constitution of India, hence, the petitioner has a right to raise the

issue of violation of right of privacy before this court. In order to 163 support this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has relied on the

case of District Registrar and Collector, Hyderabad and

Another v. Canara Bank and Others [ (2005) 1 SCC 496]. 141. Elaborating on this plea, the learned Senior Counsel

has pleaded that Rule 10 (c) of the Aggregator Rules requires an

Aggregator "to maintain a record in digital form of the details of the

passengers who travelled in the vehicle, origin and destination of the

journey and the fare collected". Moreover, "the record shall be kept

open for inspection by an officer nominated by the Licensing

Authority at any time". Further, Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules

stipulates that "the datas of all passengers and drivers shall be

stored up to one year and shall be made available to the inspecting

authorities on demand." Secondly, Rule 5 (2) of the Aggregator Rules makes it

mandatory that an Aggregator "shall comply with the Information

Technology Act, 2000 , including the intermediary guidelines." Thirdly, the virtual world of Information Technology gives the

aggregator access to not only the personal data, but also to the

sensitive personal data of a person. The personal information may 164 directly or indirectly, or in combination with other information

reveal the identity of a person, may reveal his physical,

physiological and mental health condition, and may reveal his or

her sexual orientation etc. Therefore, the data available with the

Aggregator may expose the privacy of a person to a third party

including the State. 142. But, under the provisions of the Constitution of India

and under constitutionalism, a State cannot be given an absolute

power to violate the privacy of a person. Under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India the word "life" and the words "personal

liberty" embody the right of privacy of a person. Such a right of

privacy can only be invaded by the State through a procedure

established by law. Of course, under the doctrine of due process of

law, the procedure established by law has to be fair, just and

reasonable. Hence, the power given by the law can neither be

unbridled, nor uncontrolled. The power has to be exercised within

well defined limits--the limits prescribed by the law. By no stretch

of imagination can the State be permitted to vandalise the right to

privacy, and desecrate the alter of Article 21 of the Constitution of

India. In order to buttress this plea, the learned Senior Counsel 165 has relied upon the cases of R. Rajagopal alias R.R.Gopal and

Ano. v. State of T.N. and Ors. [ (1994) 6 SCC 632 ] and

Thalappalam Service Co-operative Bank Ltd. & Others v.

State of Kerala & Others [ (2013) 16 SCC 82]. 143. Moreover, keeping in mind the sanctity of the right of

privacy, keeping in mind the vast data stored by Intermediaries,

keeping in mind the great danger posed by unauthorised usage of

such data, the Information Technology Act and the Rules, made

there under, prescribe not only procedure for sharing of such data,

lay down the circumstances under which information can be given

to the State authorities, but also impose the penalty of having to

pay compensation upon the intermediary in case the data is

negligently leaked. 144. Section 2 (w) of the I.T. Act, defines the word

"intermediary" with respect to any particular electronic records as

meaning "any person who on behalf of another person receives or

transmits that record or provides any service with respect to that

record and includes telecom service provides, network service

providers, internet service providers, webhosting service providers, 166 search engines, online payment sites, online-auction sites, online

market places and Cyber Cafes". According to the learned Senior

Counsel, an aggregator under the Aggregator Rules stores, collects

records, and is an online market place as it provides access to the

passengers to the taxis, and has online payment sites through

which fares are paid by the passengers to the taxi drivers. Thus,

an aggregator is an "intermediary" under the I.T. Act . 145. Furthermore, Section 43-A of the I. T. Act imposes a

duty upon a body corporate to protect the electronic datas

collected by it. In case of any leakage of any information so

collected, it would expose the body corporate to pay damages to the

person affected by such leakage. Hence, under the said provision,

the aggregator is duty bound to ensure that the electronic records

kept by it are duly protected. 146. In order to further protect the privacy of citizens, the

Government has promulgated both the Information Technology

(Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive

Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 ("the SPDI Rules", for

short), and the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) 167 Rules, 2011 ("the Intermediary Guidelines Rules", for short). Both

these Rules contain an elaborate procedure, and prescribe the

particular circumstances under which the data can be shared with

a competent authority of the State. Both these Rules require that

the safeguards prescribed by these Rules must be followed, both in

letter and spirit, before the State can claim its power to have

access to the data. Thus, these Rules clearly prevent the State

from having absolute and free access to personal and sensitive

personal information of a citizen. However, neither Rule 10 (c), nor

Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules contains any safeguards which

would protect a person from the snooping eyes of the State.

Therefore, Rule 10 (c) and 10 (v) bestow an uncontrolled and

unbridled power on the State, and that, too, to a licensing

authority and that, too, "upon demand." Such a vast power is

clearly violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In order

to buttress these pleas, the learned Senior Counsel has relied on

the case of United States v Jones [ 565 U. S., 3-6 (2012) ] 147. Per contra, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional

Advocate General and Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned Senior

Counsel, have pleaded that the petitioner, the Uber Company, 168 cannot possibly raise the issue with regard to the violation of right

to privacy. For, a company cannot claim that it has any right to

privacy. Moreover, no citizen has come before this court and

pleaded that his right of privacy has been violated by the

Aggregator Rules. Therefore, the issue raised by the petitioner-

Company is merely academic; academic questions need not be

gone into by this court. Thus, they have requested that this court

should put blinders on its judicial vision, and ignore the entire

issue. 148. The learned counsel have also pleaded that the right of

privacy is not an absolute right. Therefore, for certain specified

purposes, the State can pierce the veil of privacy without violating Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In order to buttress this

plea, the learned counsels have relied on the cases of Govind v.

State of M.P. and Ano . [ ( 1975) 2 SCC 148], Mr. X v. Hospital Z [( 1998) 8 SCC 296], Sharada v. Dharampal [ ( 2003) 4 SCC

493], K.J. Doraiswamy v. Assistant General Manager, SBI [ (2006) 5 CTC 829], and United States v. Leroy Carlton Knotts

[460 U.S. 276]. 149. The learned counsel have also submitted that there is

nothing unusual about the Aggregator Rules requiring that data be

collected with regard to identify, the point of origin and the point of

destination, and the fare charged from a passenger. The said data

is required to ensure that the passengers are not over charged by

the aggregators. In fact, Rule 106 of the KMV Rules requires that

the data with regard to each trip should be maintained by the

owner of the transport vehicles. Furthermore, Rule 106 (4) of the

KMV Rules clearly state that such a record shall be produced on

demand by any Police Officer, not below the rank of the

Sub-inspector, or an officer of the Motor Vehicles Department.

Since the permit holders under Section 74 of the Act are required

to comply with Rule 106 of the KMV Rules, since such permit

holders are covered by the CTS Scheme, therefore, the permit

holders under the CTS Scheme are equally required to maintain

the said data. Thus, even they are required to produce the data

before an officer of Motor Vehicles Department on demand.

Therefore, the question of violation of right of privacy cannot be

pleaded. 150. The issue before the court is about what is the scope of

judicial review while dealing with the constitutionality of a

subordinate legislation? Whether the court should close its eyes

and subject the people to suffer the slings and arrows of an illegal

law? Or it should apply its holistic judicial vision to the

constitutional challenges to a subordinate legislation and protect

the rights of the people at large? 151. The power of judicial review, a basic structure of the

Constitution of India, is sacrosanct. It is one of the best means for

exercising checks and balance on the other two branches of the

State. Since the Judiciary has been assigned the role of keeping

the other two branches of the State within the confines of the

Constitution of India, the court cannot turn a Nelson's eyes to the

constitutional issues raised before it. Merely because a variety of

legal issues confront the court, the court cannot bury its head, like

the proverbial ostrich, and claim to see and hear nothing.

While tackling constitutional issues, the judicial vision has to be

broad and judicial conduct courageous. To shy away from cutting

the constitutional Gordian knot is to abdicate the judicial duty.

Neither the Judge, nor the judiciary, neither the people, nor the 171 nation can afford to be coward while confronting constitutional

enigma. While traveling through the labyrinth of law and case law,

through contentions and counter-contentions, a judge has to be

ready, like Theseus, to strike down the Minotaur, if the impugned

Rules are uncontrolled and unbridled. Moreover, technicalities of

law cannot be permitted to become obstacles in the road to justice.

If the impugned Aggregator Rules do violate the peoples' right to

privacy, then mere technicality cannot be permitted to shield such

a law from the power of judicial review. 152. Constitutional history and Constitutionalism reveal

many facets of constitutional interpretation. Entrenched in the Age

of Enlightenment, embedded in the political theory of Social

Contract, "We the People" gave to ourselves the Constitution of

India. Since the people have given the Constitution to themselves,

they have defined and limited the powers of the three organs of the

State, namely the Executive, the Legislature, and the Judiciary.

The people have clearly demarcated the areas in which the

government cannot interfere. Although our political vision

continues to be blurred by our feudal past, but both the

Constitution of India, and Constitutionalism teach us that we have 172 given a limited government to ourselves. Constitutionalism is "a

complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating

the principle that the authority of government derives from and is

limited by a body of fundamental law". Constitutionalism

proclaims the desirability of the rule of law as opposed to rule by

the arbitrary judgment or mere fiat of public officials. Throughout

the literature dealing with modern public law, and the foundations

of statecraft the central element of the concept of constitutionalism

is that in political society, the government officials are not free to

do anything they please in any manner they choose; they are

bound to observe both the limitations on power and the procedures

which are set out in the supreme, Constitutional law of the

community. It may therefore be said that the touchstone of

constitutionalism is the concept of limited government under a

higher law. Hence, the sovereignty of the nation does not lie with

the government in power, but with the people of the country.

Thus, the government is legally required to function within the

confines of the Constitution of India, and within the limits

established by the law. Even if the intention of the government

were laudable, even then it cannot transgress the limits of the law. 173 153. Presently, the scope and ambit of right of privacy is

sub-judice before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. For, the issue has

been referred to a Larger Bench in the case of K. S. Puttaswamy

(Retired) and Another v. Union of India and Others [ (2015) 8

SCC 735. Whether the said right is a fundamental right, or a

Constitutional one is yet to be decided by the Apex Court. But

nonetheless, it is a human right. The said right has been

recognized by the Constitutions of other democratic countries,

especially of U. S. A, by the courts of other democratic countries,

especially of England and United States, and by International

Declarations and Covenants. 154. As far back as 1603, in Semayne's case [(1603) 5

Coke's Rep 91a], it was laid down that "Every man's house is his

castle." In 1763, while debating in the English Parliament, William

Pitt had given a forceful expression to the above maxim when he

said, "The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the

force of the Crown. It may be frail--its roof may shake-- the wind

may blow through it---the storm may enter, the rain may enter--but

the King of England cannot enter--all his force dare not cross the

threshold of the ruined tenement." 155. The Fourth Amendment of the American Constitution

clearly states that "The right of the people to be secure in their

person, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches

and seizures, shall not be violated and no warrants shall issue, but

upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and

particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or

things to be seized." Thus, before a place or person can be searched

or seized, there has to be a probable cause, and the particular

place or person has to be described in the search warrant. 156. Even international conventions, to which India is a

signatory, recognize the right to privacy. Article 12 of the Universal

Declaration of Human Rights (1948) states: the law against such interference or attacks. Similarly, Article 17 of the International Covenant of Civil

and Political Rights proclaims as under: 157. Since India is a signatory to these International

Covenants, we are legally bound to implement them. Thus, the

right of privacy has to be protected and promoted both by Law and

by the courts. 158. In the case of Kharak Singh v State of U. P. [ (1964)

1 SCR 332] the Hon'ble Supreme Court opined that although the

Constitution of India does not explicitly mention the right of

privacy, but the same can be traced from the right to "life" in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Subba Rao, J. while

concurring that the fundamental right to privacy was part of the

right to liberty in Article 21 , part of the right to freedom of speech

and expression in Article 19 (10 (a), and also of the right to

movement in Article 19 (1) (d) , held that the Regulations permitting

surveillance violated the fundamental right of privacy. 159. Similarly, in the case of Govind v. State of M. P. [(1975) 2 SCC 148] Hon'ble Mathew J. developed the law as to

privacy where it was left off in Kharak Singh 's case. Borrowing the 176 doctrine of penumbras and peripheral rights, the Apex Court

discovered the right of privacy emanating from Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. According to the learned Judge, any

right to privacy must encompass and protect the personal

intimacies of the home, the family, marriage, motherhood,

procreation and child-bearing. However, the list is not exhaustive. 160. However, Mathew J. did state that such a right is not

an absolute one. The privacy right can be denied only when an

"important countervailing interest is shown to be superior", or

where a compelling State interest was shown. According to the

learned Judge, if there was State intrusion there must be "a

reasonable basis for intrusion." The right to privacy, in any event,

would necessarily have to go through a process of case-by-case

development. 161. The issue about the right of privacy has become a

crucial issue in the Digital Age. For, the data stored in computers

consists of both personal and sensitive information. In United

States v Jones [565 U. S., 3-6 (2012) ] the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of United States dealt with a case where Mr. Jones was suspected 177 of drug trafficking. The police investigators asked for and received

a warrant to attach a Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking

device to the underside of the defendant's car; but then, exceeded

the warrant's scope in both geography and length of time. Two

issues were raised before the Hon'ble Supreme Court: Whether

such a tracking amounted to "search" as envisaged under the

Fourth Amendment or not? (The Fourth Amendment quoted

above). And whether such search violated a person's "expectation

of privacy" or not? Justice Sotomayor delivered a concurring

judgment. The learned Judge agreed with the majority opinion that

such a search fell within the scope of the Fourth Amendment. With

regard to the second issue the learned Judge opined as under: GPS monitoring generates a precise,
 comprehensive record of a person's public movements
 that reflects a wealth of detail about her familial,
 political, professional, religious and sexual associations.
 (Disclosed in [GPS] data...will be trips the indisputable
 private nature of which takes little imagination to
 conjure: trips to the psychiatrist, the plastic surgeon, the
 abortion clinic, the AIDS treatment center, the strip club,
 the criminal defense attorney, the by-the-hour motel, the
 union meeting, the mosque, synagogue or church, the 178 gay bar and on and on"). The Government can store
such records and efficiently mine them for information
years into the future. And because GPS monitoring is
cheap in comparison to conventional surveillance
techniques and by design, proceeds surreptitiously, it
evades the ordinary checks that constrain abusive law
enforcement practices: "limited police resources and
community hostility." Awareness that the Government may be
watching chills associational and expressive freedoms.
And the Government's unrestrained power to assemble
data that reveal private aspects of identity is
susceptible to abuse. The net result is that GPS
monitoring--by making available at a relatively low cost
such a substantial quantum of intimate information
about any person whom the Government, in its
unfettered discretion, chooses to track--may "alter the
relationship between citizen and government in a way
that is inimical to democratic society."United States v
Cuevas-Perez, 640 F. 3d 272, 285 (CA7 2011) (Flaum,
J., concurring). I would take these attributes of GPS monitoring
into account when considering the existence of a
reasonable societal expectation of privacy in the sum of
one's public movements. I would ask whether people
reasonably expect that their movements will be 179 recorded and aggregated in a manner that enables the
Government to ascertain, more or less at will, their
political and religious beliefs, sexual habits and so on...
I would also consider the appropriateness of entrusting
to the Executive, in the absence of any oversight from a
coordinate branch, a tool so amenable to misuse,
especially in the light of the Fourth Amendment's goal to
curb arbitrary exercise of police power to and prevent "a
too permeating police surveillance," United States v Di
Re 332 U. S. 581, 595 (1948). More fundamentally, it may be necessary to
reconsider the premise that an individual has no
reasonable expectation of privacy in information
voluntarily disclosed to third parties... This approach is
ill suited to the digital age, in which people reveal a
great deal of information about themselves to third
parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks.
People disclose the phone number that they dial or text
to their cellular providers; the URLs that they visit and
the e-mail addresses with which they correspond to
their Internet service providers; and the books,
groceries, and medications they purchase to online
retailers. Perhaps as JUSTICE ALITO notes, some
people may find the "tradeoff" of privacy for convenience
"worthwhile," or "inevitable," and perhaps not. I for one
doubt that people would accept without complaint the 180 warrant less disclosure to the Government of a list of
 every Web site they had visited in the last week, or
 month, or year. But whatever the societal expectations,
 they can attain constitutionally protected status only if
 our Fourth Amendment jurisprudence ceases to treat
 secrecy as a prerequisite for privacy. I would not
 assume that all information voluntarily disclosed to
 some member of the public for a limited purpose is, for
 that reason alone, disentitled to Fourth Amendment
 protection. See Smith, 442 U. S., at 749 (Marshall, J.,
 dissenting) ("Privacy is not a discrete commodity,
 possessed absolutely or not at all. Those who disclose
 certain facts to a bank or phone company for a limited
 business purpose need not assume that this information
 will be released to other persons for other purposes") ;
 see also Katz, 389 U. S., at 351-352 ("What [a person]
 seeks to preserve as private even in an area accessible
 to the public, may be constitutionally protected").

 Thus, the following principles emerge from the above law and

case law: For, the law must pass the test of due process of law. Rule 10 (c ) of the Aggregator Rules makes it
mandatory for the aggregator to "maintain records, in 182 digital form of all the taxies at his control, indicating on
 a day to day basis, the trips operated by each vehicle
 details of passengers who travelled in the vehicle origin
 and destination of the journey and the fare collected.
 The records so maintained shall be open for inspection
 by an officer nominated by the licensing authority at
 any time." (Emphasis added). Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules further
 requires an aggregator to "store data of all passengers
 and drivers travelled in their vehicles up to one year
 and make them available to the inspecting authorities
 on demand." (Emphasis added). 162. A bare perusal of these two provisions clearly reveal

that the Aggregator Rules do not prescribe the circumstances

under which the licensing authority or a person nominated by the

licensing authority could have access to the information stored by

the aggregator. Such an unfettered, uncontrolled power granted to

the licensing authority would permit the authority to invade the

right of privacy of a passenger. For Rule 10 (c) of the Aggregator

Rules requires that "the place of origin and place of destination of a

passenger" has to be recorded and preserved for the perusal of the 183 licensing authority. However, such information may reveal the

social, or political relationship, and sexual orientation of a

passenger. It may also reveal the medical concerns of an

individual, such as visit to AIDS treatment centre or to an abortion

clinic. Such data has to be handed over to the licensing authority

"on demand". Interestingly, these two provisions neither provide

any safeguard to the passenger against such intrusion of his right

of privacy, nor prescribe the circumstances under which the

licensing authority can demand the stored electronic information.

Hence, these provisions leave the doors wide open for abuse of the

said power by the State. 163. Of course, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna and Mr. S. S. Naganand

have argued that provisions similar to the Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of

the Aggregator Rules also exist under Rule 106 of the KMV Rules.

The said Rule makes it imperative for an owner of a transport

vehicle to maintain record with regard to each trip, and to submit

the said record for inspection to an officer of the Motor Vehicles

Department. Thus, if Rule 106 of the KMV Rules does not violate

the right of privacy, then Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator

Rules, too, do not violate the said right. 164. However, the said argument is highly misplaced.

Firstly, although Rule 106 of the KMV Rules does deal with

transport vehicles, but Rule 106 (1) (a) (vi) of the KMV Rules

speaks of "the place of origin and destination of the goods

vehicles." Thus, in respect of maintaining the record about the

"place of origin and destination" is not about motor cabs, but

about the goods vehicles. Secondly, even if Rule 106 of the KMV

Rules is applicable to the motor cabs, even then it would not affect

the constitutional validity of Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the

Aggregator Rules. For, merely because the constitutional validity to

Rule 106 of the KMV Rules has not been challenged, it would not

make Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules

constitutionally valid. After all, each provision of law would have to

be tested on the touchstone of the constitutional provisions and

philosophy on its own. Hence, the said contention is untenable. Furthermore, the learned counsel have submitted that the

information with regard to the distance between the place of origin

and place of destination is required by the licensing authority in

order to ensure that the aggregator is not over-charging the

passenger. However, such a plea is not borne out by Rules 10 (c) 185 and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules. For, neither of the provisions

restrict the accessibility to the information stored by the aggregator

for the singular purpose of finding out if the passenger is being

overcharged or not. Hence, the said submission is unacceptable. 165. On the other hand, the IT Act , which deals with storing

of electronic information and its dissemination, provides certain

safeguards for such sharing of information with third party

including the State. Section 2 (w) of the IT Act defines the term

"intermediary" as "any person who on behalf of another person

receives, stores, or transmits that record or provides any service

with respect to that record and includes telecom service providers,

network service providers, internet service providers, web-hosting

service providers, search engines, online payment sites, online-

auction sites, online-market place and cyber cafes." 166. Section 43A of the IT Act imposes a liability upon an

intermediary to pay compensation in case the intermediary is

negligent in implementing and maintaining reasonable security

practices and procedure and thereby causes wrongful loss or

wrongful gain to any person. 167. Rule 6 of the Rules of 2011 deals specifically with

disclosure of electronic information and is as under: 168. A bare perusal of the said provision clearly reveals that

before a data can be disclosed it "requires prior permission from the

provider of such information." However, such a prior permission is

not required if "the Government agencies mandated under the law

[is] to obtain information...for the purpose of verification of identity,

or for prevention, detection, investigation including cyber incidents,

prosecution, and punishment of offences." Moreover, the provision 188 provides that the "Government agency shall send a request in

writing stating clearly the purpose of seeking such information."

Thus, the provision not only protects the interest of the individual

whose information is being sought by the government, but it also

prescribes the specific purposes for which the information can be

sought by the government, and the procedure for seeking the

information from an intermediary. Thus, the power of the State is

cribbed, cabined and confined by Rule 6 of the Rules of 2011. 169. However, Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator

Rules bestow an unfettered, unbridled, uncontrolled power upon

the government to seek the electronic information, that too, on

demand. Such Rules are likely to be abused by the government.

Hence, such Rules are clearly violative of right of privacy, as

discussed by Justice Sotomayor in her judgment in the Jones'

case. Hence, the Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules are

violative of both Arts. 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, and

are contrary to the commitment of India to the Universal

Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and to the International

Covenant of Civil and Political Rights. Therefore, Rules 10 (c) and

10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules are unconstitutional. 189 The Aggregator Rules and others provisions of the Act 170. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel, has

further challenged the constitutional validity of the Aggregator

Rules on the ground that some of the provisions of the Rules

violate some of the provisions of the Act. Thus, the subordinate

legislation violates the parental Act. Hence, the Aggregator Rules

are unconstitutional. 171. Both according to him and according to Mr. Udaya

Holla, the learned Senior Counsel, Section 74 (2) of the Act

provides a discretionary power to the Regional Transport Authority

to add certain conditions while granting the permit to an applicant

for a contract carriage. Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act further

prescribes the procedure before the Regional Transport Authority

can either vary the conditions, or attach further conditions to a

permit already granted to a permit holder. According to the

procedure, the Transport Authority is required to give a notice of

not less than one month to the permit holder, before the Regional

Transport Authority can vary or attach further conditions to the

permit. 172. However, according to the learned counsel, the

Aggregator Rules makes the conditions mentioned under the said

Rules as being automatically attached to the permits already

granted to the permit holders. In fact, the officers of respondent

No.2 have seized taxis, supplied by the Uber Company, ostensibly

on the ground that the Uber Company does not have a licence

under the Aggregator Rules, or on the ground that the drivers are

violating conditions of the permit granted to them. But the

conditions contained in the Aggregator Rules are yet to be attached

to the permit granted under Section 74 of the Act. Moreover, they

can be attached only after the procedure under Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act is followed. 173. Rule 8 (c) requires a driver to be a resident of

Karnataka for a minimum period of two years, and Rule 8 (d)

requires him to have working knowledge of Kannada. However,

neither Section 9 of the Act, dealing with grant of driving licence,

nor Section 74 of the Act, dealing with the grant of permit to a

permit holder, impose such conditions of residency, or knowledge

of a particular language. Therefore, the subordinate legislation has 191 imposed conditions not warranted by the Parental Act. Hence, the

Aggregator Rules travel beyond the Act. 174. The aggregator is not an employer of the drivers as an

aggregator is neither a permit holder, nor the owner of the taxis.

Thus, the aggregator has no control over either the behaviour or

the conduct of the driver. Yet, Rule 10 (2) of the Aggregator Rules

imposes a vicarious liability upon the aggregator by holding him

jointly and severally responsible for any default committed by a

permit holder, or by a taxi driver and requires the aggregator to

pay penalty under the Act and the Rules. 175. Similarly, Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules empowers

the licensing authority to suspend or cancel the aggregator's

licence if any driver of a taxi operated by it violates any

requirements or conditions of the Aggregator Rules, or a passenger

complains of misbehaviour or misdemeanour on the part of the

driver is found to be correct after enquiry, or a criminal complaint

is filed against the driver. 176. Therefore, both these Rules impose a penal liability on

the aggregator for the acts done either by the permit holder, who 192 happens to be the Principal, or by his driver. However vicarious

liability cannot be imposed upon a person who has no relationship

with the misconduct, or with the offence committed by a

delinquent, or an offender respectively. 177. Section 93 (2) of the Act prescribes the conditions

which may be attached with a licence issued to a canvasser.

According to the said provision, a canvasser may be asked to

deposit a security of a sum not exceeding Rs.5,000/- in case the

canvasser does not deal with goods carriages. However, Rule 14 of

the Aggregator Rules prescribes that an Aggregator who has up to

One thousand taxis is required to pay a security deposit of Rupees

One Lakh. Thus, Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules is obviously

contradictory to Section 93 (2) of the Act. Since there is a

contradiction between the said Rules and the Parental Act, Rule 14

of the Aggregator Rules should be declared as unconstitutional. 178. Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional Advocate

General, and Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned Senior Counsel, on

the other hand, submit that not every single condition can be

mentioned in the permit. Moreover, if the contention of the learned 193 counsel for petitioner-Company were to be accepted, that the

procedure under Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act has to be followed for

varying or attaching further conditions, with the change of any

Rules or Regulations, thousands of permits would have to be

recalled by the Regional Transport Authority. Thus, the procedure

prescribed by Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act is merely discretionary,

and is not mandatory in nature. Further, only those taxis have been seized which were being

plied as All India Tourist Vehicle, but were carrying local

commuters. Since the permit holders and the drivers were

violating the purpose behind the All India Tourist Vehicle Permit,

the officers of the respondent No.2 were justified in seizing the

taxis. The requirement of residency of at least two years, and the

need to have a working knowledge of Kannada is to ensure the

safety of the passenger. For, the language barrier between the

driver and the passenger needs to be minimised. Therefore, both

the requirements are in public interest. The requirements which

are in public interest cannot be held to be unconstitutional. 194 Furthermore, according to the learned counsel, a bare

perusal of the agreement entered between the Uber Company and

the permit holder would clearly reveal that the petitioner company

has an extensive control over both the permit holder, and the

driver. In fact, repeatedly, the petitioner company has informed

the public, through its adds, that the drivers would be courteous,

peace loving and law abiding. It also has a mechanism for dealing

with any complaint filed by the passengers with regard to any

misbehaviour committed by the drivers. Therefore, the petitioner

company is not justified in claiming that it has no control either

over the permit holder, or over the driver. Hence, it can be held

vicariously liable for the acts of either of these two. The State is merely asking the aggregator to give a security

deposit of Rupees One Lakh. Considering the fact that the

petitioner-Company is a Multi-National Company, with deep

pockets, it cannot claim that it is being over charged under Rule

14 of the Aggregator Rules. Hence, the said provision is in

consonance with the Act. 179. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel, is

justified in pleading that the conditions imposed by the Aggregator

Rules cannot be read automatically in the permit issued by the

Regional Transport Authority under Section 74 of the Act. For, Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act, clearly prescribes a procedure for

alteration of the conditions of the permit. Since a procedure has

been prescribed by the Act, the same has to be followed by the

Regional Transport Authority. It is, indeed, trite to state that if a

power is given to do something in a particular manner, it must be

done in that manner or not at all [ Ref. to Central Coal Fields

Ltd., and Another v. SLL-SML (Joint Venture Consortium) and

Others (2016) 8 SCC 622) ]. Therefore, before the conditions of

the Aggregator Rules can be read as part of the permit issued

under Section 74 of the Act, the procedure established by Section

74 (2) (ix) of the Act has to be followed. 180. However, merely because the Regional Transport

Authority is treating the conditions of the Aggregator Rules as

having been automatically incorporated in the Permit under Section 74 of the Act, such a misinterpretation cannot adversely

affect the legality of the conditions imposed by the Aggregator 196 Rules. For, a misinterpretation of law, or its wrongful

implementation would not adversely affect the legality of the

provision. Therefore, the learned Senior Counsel is unjustified in

pleading that conditions imposed under the Aggregator Rules

violate Section 74 of the Act. 181. It is true that the Act does not prescribe the

requirement of residency of the driver, or the requirement of the

knowledge of the local language by the driver. But Rules 8 (c) and

8 (d) of the Aggregator Rules impose these twin requirements

respectively. But the moot question is whether by prescribing

these twin requirements, the Aggregator Rules violate any

provision of the Act? Or travel beyond the scope of the Act? One of

the purposes of the Act is to ensure the smooth functioning of the

motor cabs. Safety of the passenger is crucial for the Act as well as

for the Aggregator Rules. Since most of the roads signage,

including the names of the roads, the names of the cities and the

villages, even on the National Highway, happen to be in the local

language, it is imperative that the taxi drivers should have

proficiency in the local language. Moreover, for the convenience

and safety of the passenger it is essential that there should be as 197 little of language barrier between the driver and the passenger as

possible. For, the lack of communication between the passenger

and the driver may cause inconvenience to the passenger, and may

also jeopardize the safety of the passenger. The residency

requirement has to be seen in the light of proficiency in the local

language. For, the knowledge of a local language improves with

the residency in the local area. Since both these requirements are

in consonance with one of the purposes of the Act, and are in

public interest, they cannot be faulted. 182. Further, the learned Senior Counsel is also unjustified

in claiming that the aggregator cannot be imposed with a vicarious

liability under Rule 10 (2) of the Aggregator Rules. For, a bare

perusal of the agreement entered between the petitioner-Company

and the permit holder, discussed above, clearly reveals that the

petitioner-Company has a pervading control over the functioning of

both the permit holder and the driver. Once the petitioner-

Company supervises the actions and omissions of the permit

holder and the driver, then it is unjustified in claiming that it

cannot be held vicariously liable for the act of either the permit 198 holder, or the driver. Therefore, the said contention is clearly

unacceptable. 183. Admittedly, under Section 93 (2) of the Act, a

canvasser is required to deposit a security of a sum not exceeding

Rupees Five thousand in case the canvasser does not deal with

goods carriage. Undoubtedly, Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules

requires an aggregator to pay Rupees One Lakh up to One

thousand Taxis. Since an aggregator is a canvasser, as discussed

above, Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules cannot prescribe a different

rate of security deposit in the case of the aggregator. Of course,

Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional Advocate General, has

tried to justify Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules ostensibly on the

ground that the aggregator, like the petitioner-Company, has "deep

pockets". Thus, the Government is justified in prescribing a higher

security deposit by the aggregator. However, such a plea is

unacceptable. For, once Section 93 (2) of the Act has prescribed

the security deposit for all the canvassers, since the aggregators

also belong to the same category, therefore a different security

deposit cannot be laid down by the Aggregator Rules. To do so, 199 would clearly violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Hence,

Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules is unconstitutional.

Aggregator Rules suffer from self-contradiction,
unreasonableness, and vagueness: 184. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel, has

further pleaded that the Aggregator Rules suffer from self-

contradictions, unreasonableness, and vagueness. Relying on the

cases of P. Krishnamurthy (supra) and Supreme Court Employees' Welfare Assn. (supra), the learned Senior Counsel

has submitted that some of the provisions of the Aggregator Rules

which suffer from such viruses deserve to be declared as

unconstitutional. 185. According to the learned Senior counsel, there is an

inbuilt self-contradiction between Rule 5 (3) of the Aggregator

Rules, which requires that an applicant shall not own or lease any

vehicle unless he holds a licence under these Rules, and Rule 6 (a)

of the Aggregator Rules, which prescribes that unless an

Aggregator has a fleet of minimum hundred taxis either owned, or

through an agreement with individual taxi permit holders, it 200 cannot apply for a licence under the Aggregator Rules. Thus, on

the one hand, an aggregator is prevented from owing any vehicle or

leasing out a vehicle unless it has a license under the Aggregator

Rules. Yet, on the other hand, unless the aggregator owns or has

access, through an agreement, to a minimum of hundred taxis, the

aggregator cannot apply for a licence. Thus, according to the

learned Senior Counsel, the aggregator is caught in a catch-22

situation. Secondly, on the one hand, Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator

Rules, dealing with the vehicle profile, requires that each vehicle

should be fitted with a panic button, and the panic button should

be capable of alerting the control room of the aggregator as well as

the local police station. Yet on the other hand, Rule 10 (p) of the

Aggregator Rules allows a permit holder to operate his vehicle

simultaneously with two or more aggregators. Therefore, if a taxi

were simultaneously registered with two or more aggregators, the

taxi would be required, under Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules, to

have different panic buttons, where each panic button is connected

to the control room of each aggregator. According to the learned

Senior Counsel, such a requirement would defeat the very object of 201 the Aggregator Rules, namely the safety of the passengers. For, in

a panic stricken situation the passenger may not even know which

panic button to press in order to alert the control room of the

particular aggregator from whom the passenger has hired the taxi.

Therefore, Rule 7 (c) and Rule 10 (p) not only contradict each

other, but also create a self-defeating mechanism. Instead of

strengthening the passenger's safety, these two provisions

jeopardise the safety of the passenger. Thus, this clearly proves the

unreasonableness and the arbitrariness of the provisions. Thirdly, Rule 7 (e) of the Aggregator Rules requires that each

taxi be fitted with a yellow colour display board with the words

"Taxi" visible both from the front, and the back. And the board

shall be capable of being illuminated during the night hours. The

learned Senior Counsel submits that this Rule amounts to

redundancy. For, when a passenger requests for the service of a

taxi, through a platform, he/she is already informed about the

taxi's registration number, the driver's name, and about the color

of the taxi, and the time it will take for the taxi to reach the place

where the passenger is waiting. Thus, the passenger can easily

identify the taxi without the need for a display board. Therefore, 202 there is no need for a vehicle to have a display board proclaiming

itself to be a "Taxi". Since the requirement is redundant and

oppressive, it is unjust and unreasonable. Hence, it is illegal and

unconstitutional. 186. Rule 8 (d) of the Aggregator Rules requires a driver to

have working knowledge of Kannada. However, the words "working

knowledge" is nowhere defined. Therefore, the term "working

knowledge" is highly vague in its scope. 187. Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules requires the

aggregator to investigate a passenger's complaint alleging violation

of the zero tolerance policy, and to suspend the driver's access to

the platform during the period of investigation. According to the

learned Senior Counsel, investigation of a complaint can be done

by the Police or by a competent authority created by the State. But,

an aggregator does not have the power to investigate a complaint.

Therefore, again an onerous responsibility has been hoisted upon

the aggregator---a responsibility it may not be able to fulfil

substantially. Hence, Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules is highly

oppressive and unreasonable. 188. Rule 10 (i) of the Aggregator Rules further imposes the

condition that the aggregator shall not allow the taxi driver to work

beyond the maximum number of hours as is stipulated under Motor Transport Workers Act, 1961 . However, an aggregator is not

an employer under Section 2 (e) of the Motor Transport Workers

Act, 1961. Moreover, since a taxi may be registered with two or

more aggregators, the taxi driver would be free to switch on and off

from a platform belonging to one particular aggregator to another.

Once the taxi driver switches off from the platform of the

petitioner-Company, the petitioner-Company has no way of

ensuring that the concerned taxi driver does not work beyond the

stipulated period of eight hours. Therefore, again a condition is

being inflicted upon an aggregator, which is impossible to perform.

Hence, Rule 10 (i) is unreasonable and arbitrary in its scope. 189. Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules prescribe that the

aggregator shall ensure that the vehicles registered with it do not

operate independently or except booking directly. Since a taxi

driver can log off from the platform of an aggregator, it is highly

unclear as to how an aggregator can stop a taxi driver from either

operating independently, or from accepting bookings directly. 204 Thus, again a condition is being imposed upon an aggregator,

which is impossible to fulfil. Hence, the condition is not only an

unreasonable one, but is also an oppressive one. 190. Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules lays down that the

aggregator shall ensure that the taxi service is available all the

time, 24 x 7, without any interruption. However, due to political

agitations, due to numerous "bandhs", due to natural calamity, it

may not be possible to provide taxi service throughout the year.

Again this is a condition which an aggregator may not be able to

fulfil. Thus, another unreasonable condition is being imposed

upon the aggregator. 191. A combined reading of Rules 8 (3), 10 (h) and 11 (1) (a)

of the Aggregator Rules clearly reveal that the said provisions are

unreasonable and unjust. Rule 8 (3) of the Aggregator Rules

requires that a taxi driver shall not have any conviction within the

past seven years of the date of his registration with the aggregator.

Furthermore, Rule 10 (h) of the Aggregator Rules, requires the

aggregator to ensure that the antecedents of a taxi driver is verified

by the police authorities before the driver is allowed to use the 205 Aggregator's platform. Moreover, under Rule 11 (a) of the

Aggregator Rules, if the aggregator fails to comply with any of the

requirements of the Aggregator Rules, the aggregator is likely to

have its license suspended up to six months, or to even have its

licence cancelled by the licensing authority. According to the

learned Senior Counsel the condition of verifying the criminal

antecedents of a driver, for a period of seven years, that too prior to

registering a driver is an impossible task to be performed by an

aggregator. For, due to migration of people within the country, due

to people from outside Karnataka coming into Bengaluru to eke

out a living, many drivers have come from far flung areas of the

country. Since there is no central data maintained by the Central

Government with regard to all the offenders, or convicts

throughout the country, it is almost impossible for an aggregator to

verify a driver's antecedents of past seven years. Such verification

may require verification from some unknown region of the country.

Most importantly, since under Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules the

aggregator may lose its licence, in case Rule 10 (h) is not complied

with, and the driver's seven years antecedents are not verified,

Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules grants an unfettered power to the 206 licensing authority. Hence, Rule 11 of the Aggregator Rules is

highly unreasonable and arbitrary. 192. Further, Rule 11 (1) (b) and (c) of the Aggregator Rules

makes the aggregator vicariously liable for the acts of the permit

holder or of the driver, respectively. Since neither the permit

holder, nor the driver is under the aggregator's control, the said

provision is unreasonable in creating a vicarious liability against

the aggregator. Hence, it deserves to be declared as illegal. 193. Moreover, Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules is

absolutely vague. For the said Rule prescribes that if a criminal

complaint is filed against the driver, then the aggregator is likely to

lose his license or to have his license suspended. However, the said

Rule does not specify the nature of the criminal complaint.

Whether the complaint is for cognizable or non-cognizable

offences? Whether the complaint is related to or unrelated to the

working of the driver as a driver, or can it relate to any of his other

illegal acts or omissions? Hence, Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator

Rules suffers from vagueness. Hence, it is illegal. 207 194. Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional Advocate

General, submits that the learned Senior Counsel for the petition-

Company is misreading Rules 5(3) and 6(a) of the Aggregator

Rules. A co-joint reading of these two Rules make it abundantly

clear that before an aggregator can apply for a licence under the

Aggregator Rules, he should have a fleet of 100 taxis. Once the

aggregator has the minimum number of taxis, it can represent

itself as a taxi service provider. Thus, these two Rules do not suffer

from any self-contradiction as claimed by the learned Senior

Counsel. Secondly, it is not necessary for a taxi to have multiple panic

buttons, as a single panic button would be able to connect to the

control room of aggregator with whom the taxi is currently logged

in. Hence, even if a taxi is registered with two or more aggregator,

it needs a single panic button. 195. Since this court is concerned with the safety of the

passenger, this court asked the learned Additional Advocate

General if a single panic button would be able to connect to

various aggregators one at a time? The learned Additional Advocate 208 emphatically stated that present technology would permit multiple

access through a single panic button. In order to verify the veracity

of this statement, the court asked the learned Additional Advocate

General to demonstrate the working of the panic button, and to

show its efficacy by calling a taxi which is registered with two or

more aggregators in Bengaluru. Subsequently, on 01.09.2016, this

court had the benefit of seeing a live demonstration of a panic

button in a taxi. (We shall deal with this aspect later in the

judgment). 196. The learned Additional Advocate General further

submitted that since the requirement of yellow display board on

each taxi is applicable to all the taxis under the CTS Scheme, there

is no good reason for exempting the taxis registered with an

aggregator from such a requirement. Moreover, although the

particular passenger who has ordered for the taxi may be able to

identify the taxi, but the public at large also needs to be informed

that the motor cab is a taxi. Hence, the requirement of displaying

the word "Taxi" is in public interest. Thus, Rule 7 (e) of the

Aggregator Rules is not redundant. 197. Under Rule 8 (d) of the Aggregator Rules, "working

knowledge" would imply sufficient knowledge of the language so as

to be able to read the road signs, and to be able to communicate

with the local residents. Hence, the words "working knowledge" do

not suffer from vagueness. 198. Moreover, Rule 10 (h) of the Aggregator Rules merely

requires the aggregator to have the antecedents of a driver, for the

previous seven years, verified from the police. Thus, the aggregator

is not expected to itself carry out the said verification. Further, the

fact that the driver has a valid driving licence itself is a proof that

his antecedents are good. Thus, Rule 10 (h) of the Aggregator Rules

does not impose an impossible condition which cannot be

performed by the aggregator. In fact, the Rule is a reasonable one

as the passenger cannot be exposed to drivers with dubious

antecedents. 199. The learned Additional Advocate General claims that

although Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules use the words "to

investigate", but the aggregator is merely required to inquire into

the passenger's complaint, and if the complaint is found to be true, 210 then to de-register the concerned driver from its platform. Since

the safety of the passenger is paramount, therefore Rule 10 (g) of

the Aggregator Rule is a reasonable one. 200. As far as Rule 10(i) of the Aggregator Rules is

concerned, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, submits that since a driver is in

a position to switch off from the aggregator's platform, therefore

the Rule merely means that an aggregator should not permit a

driver to work more than eight hours on its platform. 201. Further, Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules does not

impose a condition that the taxi service should be provided by the

aggregator day and night. It merely means that the aggregator's

platform should be available to the passengers and drivers even if

there are rallies and bandhs. According to Mr. A.S. Ponnanna the

Aggregator Rules have been framed while keeping the interest of

the public in mind. Hence, they are neither vague, nor

unreasonableness, neither oppressive, nor arbitrary; they are

constitutionally valid. 202. Further, Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules would

have to be read in consonance with Rule 8 (3) of the Aggregator 211 Rules. Rule 8 (3) of the Aggregator Rules requires that the driver

should not have been convicted, within the past seven years, for

the offence of driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, or

any cognizable offence under the Criminal Procedure Code ,

including fraud, sexual offences, use of motor vehicle to commit a

cognizable offence, a crime involving property damage or theft, acts

of violence or acts of terror. Thus, the criminal complaint

mentioned in Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules would be

limited to this extent only. Furthermore, once an opportunity of

hearing is provided under Rule 11 (1) of the Aggregator Rules, the

said Rule provides sufficient safeguards for protecting the interest

of the aggregator before the aggregator's license is suspended or

cancelled. Hence, Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules does not

suffer from vagueness. 203. There is force in Mr. Sajan Poovayya's argument that

there is inherent self-contradiction between Rule 5( 3) and Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules. For, while Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator

Rules requires an applicant to have a fleet of at least 100 taxis

which are either owned or leased through an agreement, Rule 5 (3)

of the Aggregator Rules prohibits the aggregator from owning or 212 leasing any vehicle unless the aggregator has a license under the

Aggregator Rules. Thus, a license cannot be had unless the

aggregator owns or leases a minimum of 100 taxis, yet prior to

having a license, the aggregator cannot own or lease out any

vehicle. This is a classic catch-22 situation. Because the two

provisions contradict each other, the aggregator is caught in a cleft

not knowing what is expected of him/ her. Thus, Rule 5 (3) read

with Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules suffer from the virus of

vagueness. The provisions also suffer from being arbitrary and

unreasonable. For, the two provisions cannot co-exist. Thus, Rules

5 (3) and 6 (a) are legally unsustainable. They are unconstitutional. 204. Much has been argued about the unreasonableness

about installing of a panic button in the taxis operated by an

aggregator. Admittedly, Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules requires

each taxi to be fitted with a panic button; Rule 10 (p) of the

Aggregator Rules, on the other hand, allows the permit holder and

the driver to register himself with more than one aggregator. Thus,

the issue is whether a taxi registered with two or more aggregator

would be required to have just one panic button, or different panic

buttons belonging to the each aggregator, or not? 213 205. Of course, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna has argued that the

present state of technology would permit a single panic button to

operate for different aggregators simultaneously. However, as this

court was unconvinced by this argument, the court asked for a

practical demonstration. Consequently, on 01.09.2016, a taxi was

brought to the court campus and tested. 206. During the demonstration, the court was informed

that so far there is not a single taxi, in Bengaluru, which is

registered with more than one aggregator. But still wanting to see

the practical feasibility of the working of the panic button, this

court appointed Mr. Jobin Jolly, an Internee with the court, as a

Court Commissioner, to go to the control room of ANI Technologies

Pvt. Ltd. (respondent No. 4 in W.P. No. 30917/2016), the Company

which operates the OLA Cabs, and to see as how the panic button

was connected to the control room? He was further directed to see

as to what steps were taken by the Company when an alarm is

sounded by the use of the panic button? 207. At the time of the practical demonstration, on

01.09.2016, this court asked Mr. Raghav Rohila, Senior Manager 214 at ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., respondent No.4, if it is possible for a

single panic button to work simultaneously for different

aggregators or not? Mr. Raghav Rohila informed this court that

presently technology does not exist which would permit a single

panic button to send an alarm to the control rooms of different

aggregators. Thus, it is essential that a taxi be equipped with

different panic buttons, belonging to different aggregators for the

panic button system to be efficient. 208. This court also asked Mr. Raghav Rohila if the panic

buttons used in the cabs belonging to respondent No.4 were also

connected to the police station as required by the Aggregator

Rules? This court was informed that the Police has asked the

aggregator not to connect the panic buttons to the police station.

For, the passenger tends to be curious, and out of curiosity, he/

she tends to press the panic button, although there is no emergent

situation. Thus, the police is unnecessarily flooded with false

alarms. Hence, presently, the panic buttons are not connected to

the police stations. 209. Mr. Jobin Jolly, the Court Commissioner, informed this

court, through his affidavit, that at the control room, the "Security

Response Team" consists of thirty-three members. The team is

headed by a team leader, Mr. Aurobindo. The team works 24 x 7,

in shifts. According to the team leader, whenever a panic button is

pushed, the signal directly comes to the team on the big screen in

the control room, and on the other systems in the room. Moreover,

the team also receives an email. Immediately, they try to

telephonically contact the passenger. If the passenger cannot be

contacted, they telephonically contact the concerned driver of the

taxi. 210. However, according to Mr. Jobin Jolly, the Court

Commissioner, the system is highly defective. For, when the panic

button was pushed at the High Court, "there was no significant

signal or alert on the big screen in the control room." "There is no

significant device that alerts the office about any misconduct done

by the driver." "The said office gets an email alert, when the panic

button is pushed but only after they refresh their system." According

to Mr. Jolly, random check of panic button messages from June

2016 showed that "even when both driver as well as the customer 216 couldn't response to the calls made to them, at the time of that

emergency, still there was no further action taken upon the panic

alerts. No information was forwarded to the concerned Police

Station." In fact, the team leader informed Mr. Jolly that if neither

the driver, nor the customer responds to the call made from the

control room, the Company merely informs its legal counsel along

with the message received by the Company. After this, the

Company considers the matter as closed. According to the team

leader out of 65,000 taxis operating in Bengaluru, only 153 are

equipped with panic button facility. 211. According to Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior

Counsel, such a system of multiple panic buttons would be self-

defeating. For, a passenger in panic situation may be unable to

know and understand as to which panic button is to be pushed in

order to inform the aggregator through whom the passenger had

booked the taxi. According to him, considering the performance of

the control room of ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., respondent No. 4

(the operators of OLA Cabs), considering the non-connectivity

between the panic button and the police station, the requirement

of having a panic button in the taxi, under Rule 7 (c) of the 217 Aggregator Rules is merely cosmetic. Furthermore, a co-joint

reading of Rules 7 (c) and 10 (p) of the Aggregator Rules makes the

panic button system self-defeating. Hence, the requirement is

impractical and unreasonable. 212. But merely because the implementation of these two

provisions may lead to some practical and technical difficulties,

would not make Rules 7 (c) and 10 (p) of the Aggregator Rules

per se unreasonable. Since the safety of the passenger is a

paramount concern, the requirement prescribed by Rule 7 (c) of

the Aggregator Rules is a reasonable one. Moreover, the said

requirement cannot be said to be unjust, oppressive, outrageous,

vague or arbitrary. The provision is a reasonable one, although few

technical wrinkles may need to be ironed out. In fact, this court

has narrated the technical difficulties, hereinabove, in order to

highlight the difficulties which need to be addressed to by the

Government. Hence, Rules 7 (c) and Rules 10 (p) of the Aggregator

do not suffer from unconstitutionality. 213. Rule 7 (e) of the Aggregator Rules have been challenged

on the ground that the requirement of painting the word "Taxi" in 218 yellow color on the taxi is a redundant condition. However, even if

the passenger is well aware of the cab being the taxi he/she has

called for, the fact that the motor vehicle is a taxi may be unknown

to the public. The said requirement is by way of abundant caution

to let the public at large know that the motor vehicle is a "Taxi". An

information being made available to the public, for the public good,

cannot be held to be unreasonable, arbitrary, or oppressive. Hence,

Rule 7 (e) of the Aggregator Rules does not suffer from being

oppressive, outrageous, or being unjust and unreasonable. Thus,

Rule 7 (e) of the Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 214. Mr. Sajan Poovayya's contentions with regard to Rules

8 (3), 10, 11 (a) (h) of the Aggregator Rules are also untenable. For,

the burden to verify the seven years of criminal antecedents of the

driver is not just on the shoulders of the aggregator. Rule 10 (h) of

the Aggregator Rules does not require the aggregator to personally

verify the criminal antecedents. The aggregator is required to have

the antecedents verified through the police. Even if there is no

central data available with regard to the criminal records of the

people, but the police station of the relevant place would have the

necessary record available with it. Thus, Rule 10 (h) of the 219 Aggregator Rules does not place an oppressive burden on the

aggregator. Hence, it is legally valid. 215. Rule 11 (1) (a) of the Aggregator Rules is not as

unfettered as Mr. Sajan Poovayya has claimed. The learned

counsel for the respondents are justified in claiming that sufficient

safeguards have been built into the Aggregator Rules in order to

control the power to cancel or to suspend an aggregator's license.

Firstly, Rule 11 (1) of the Aggregator Rules itself imposes a duty on

the licensing authority to give an opportunity of hearing to the

aggregator before suspending or canceling the license. Secondly,

the said provision prescribes the period for which the license can

be suspended, namely "not less than thirty days...and not

exceeding six months." Hence, the period is a limited one. Thirdly,

Rule 11 (3) of the Aggregator Rules bestows a discretionary power

upon the licensing authority to impose a fine in lieu of suspending

or canceling the license. Fourthly, Rule 12 of the Aggregator Rules

provides for the remedy of appeal to the Karnataka State Transport

Appellate Tribunal. Hence, an appellate authority has been

empowered to adjudge the legal validity of any order passed by the

licensing authority under the Aggregator Rules. Therefore, the 220 power of the licensing authority under Rule 11 (1) is not an

unbridled or arbitrary power. It is a well defined power under the

Aggregator Rules. Thus, Rule 11 (1) (a) of the Aggregator Rules is

legally valid. 216. Although Mr. Poovayya has claimed that the word

"working knowledge of Kannada" is a vague term, but the said

argument is unacceptable. Though the words "working knowledge" 217. Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules has been challenged

on the ground that the aggregator does not have the power to

"investigate" a passenger's complaint. "Investigation" can be done

only by the police or an investigating agency. But the word

"investigation" can be read down as "holding an inquiry". An

inquiry can certainly be conducted by an aggregator. Hence, Rule 221 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules does not impose a liability upon the

aggregator which the aggregator cannot carry out. Hence, Rule

10(g) of the Aggregator Rules is legally valid. 218. Even Rule 10 (i) of the Aggregator Rules has been

challenged on the ground that it would be near impossible for the

aggregator to ensure that the driver does not work overtime.

However, considering the control the aggregator has over both the

permit holder and the driver, it is not difficult for the aggregator to

ensure that the driver is asked to work only for eight hours as

permitted by the law. Moreover, in case the driver or the permit

holder were registered with more than one aggregator, then the

said Rule has to be interpreted practically, namely the aggregator

is required to ensure that the driver does not work more than eight

hours for it. A too impractical interpretation of the Rule may make

the Rule unworkable. Thus interpreting the said Rule, the said

Rule is neither unreasonable, nor arbitrary. Rule 10 (i) of the

Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 219. Similarly, Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules has to be

read practically. When the said rule requires the aggregator to 222 ensure that the taxi service is available 24 x 7, it does not mean

that taxis must ply despite the political and social 'bandh' (total

shut down) our cities are subjected to. Naturally, it means that the

taxi service should be available for the benefit of the public during

the normal times. Hence, Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules does

not impose an oppressive condition upon the aggregator. It is

legally valid. 220. As far as Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules is

concerned, the said Rule does appear to be vague. For it merely

states that if a criminal complaint is filed against the licensee, or

his employee, or the driver, then the licensee is likely to either have

the license suspended or cancelled. The said provision does not

demarcate the nature of the crime. Hence, a criminal complaint

with regard to any crime, i.e. cognizable or non-cognizable, bailable

or non-bailable, may lead to the license being suspended or

cancelled. Mr. A. S. Ponanna is unjustified in claiming that Rule

11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules should be read in light of Rule 8

(3) of the Aggregator Rules mentioned above. For, the former Rule

does not refer to the latter Rule in its language. Hence, the said

interpretation offered by Mr. A. S. Ponnanna is unacceptable. 223 221. Moreover, even if such an interpretation is offered by

the learned Additional Advocate General, such an interpretation

may not be adhered to by the licensing authority or its officials. In

the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India [ (2015) 5 SCC 1]

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly opined that a limited

interpretation of a vast and undefined term by the Government

cannot be accepted by the court. Since Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules suffers from

vagueness, it is unconstitutional. The Aggregator Rules and other Laws: 222. Mr. Sajan Poovayya's last plank of attack is that the

provisions of the Aggregator Rules violate the provisions of other

laws for the time being in force, especially of the I. T. Act and of the

Rules made there under, namely the Traffic Data Rules, the SPDI

Rules and the Intermediary Guidelines. 223. According to the learned Senior counsel, Rule 5 (2) of

the Aggregator Rules makes it mandatory for an aggregator to

comply with the I. T. Act and the Intermediary Guidelines. As

mentioned above, an aggregator falls within the definition of an 224 "intermediary" as contained in Section 2 (w) of the I. T. Act.

Further, as mentioned above, under Section 43-A of the said Act,

the aggregator is not only legally bound to protect the data, but is

also bound to prevent unauthorised access to the said data. In

case, the aggregator is negligent, then it is liable to pay

compensation to the injured party. 224. Moreover, Section 81 of the I. T. Act makes the said Act

override "anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law

for the time being in force." Thus, if there is inconsistency between

the Aggregator Rules and the I. T. Act, the latter would have an

overriding effect over the former. 225. Not only the I. T. Act , but also Rule 6 of the Traffic

Data Rules, make the intermediary responsible for the actions of

its employees in case they were to breach the secrecy or the

confidentiality of any information stored by the intermediary. 226. Rule 2 (i) of the SPDI Rules defines the word "Personal

information" as meaning "any information that relates to a natural

person, which, either directly or indirectly, in combination with other

information available or likely to be available with a body corporate, 225 is capable of identifying such person." Rule 3 of the SPDI Rules

further defines the meaning of the words "Sensitive personal data

or information." Rule 4 of the SPDI Rules make it mandatory for

the body corporate to provide a policy for privacy and disclosure of

information. Under the said Rule, the body corporate is required

not only to declare its privacy policy on its website, but is also

required to enter into a lawful contract with the person providing

the personal information. Rule 5 of the SPDI Rules further make it

essential for the body corporate to obtain consent in writing

through e-mail from the provider of the sensitive personal data or

information regarding purpose of usage before collecting such

information. Further, Rule 6 of SPDI Rules states that "disclosure of

sensitive personal data or information by body corporate to any

third party shall require prior permission from the provider of such

information, who has provided such information under lawful

contract or otherwise, unless such disclosure has been agreed to in

the contract between the body corporate and provider of information,

or where the disclosure is necessary for compliance of a legal

obligation." The proviso thereto lays down an elaborate procedure 226 for even the government agency to have access to the information

from the body corporate. Moreover, the proviso clearly stipulates

that the information shall be shared with a Government agency

only for certain purposes, such as for the purpose of verification of

identity, or for prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution,

and punishment of offences. Similarly, Rule 3 of the Intermediary Guidelines cast a duty

on an intermediary to exercise due diligence in following the dos

and don'ts mentioned in Rule 3 (2) of the Intermediary Rules.

Rule 3 (7) does cast a duty on the intermediary to provide

information to Government Agencies who are lawfully authorised

for investigative, protective, cyber security activity. The information

should be provided for definite purposes mentioned in the said

sub-section, and that, too, only after following certain procedure. 227. Thus, all these Rules, mentioned above, cast a duty on

the intermediary to protect the information it has in its storage,

and to share the same with a government agency only in certain

circumstances and for a particular purpose. The information shall 227 be shared only after the procedure prescribed by the Rules has

been followed by the Government Agency. 228. But contrary to the I. T. Act and to these Rules,

Rule 10 (c) of the Aggregator Rules demands that the aggregator

shall keep the information collected by it "open for inspection by an

officer nominated by the licensing authority at any time." And Rule

10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules further lays down that the

information shall be preserved for a period of one year and shall be

made available to the inspecting authority on demand. These two

Rules of the Aggregator Rules are, thus, obviously contrary to the

duties and role assigned to an intermediary under the I. T. Act and

the Rules made there under, as mentioned above. Thus, the

Aggregator Rules violate the provisions of other laws in force.

Hence, the Aggregator Rules are unconstitutional. 229. On the other hand, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned

Additional Advocate General, and Mr. S. S. Naganand, the learned

Senior counsel, have raised the following contentions: firstly, the

Aggregator Rules are framed for the purpose of controlling of

transport vehicles. Therefore, these Rules do not encroach upon 228 the provisions of the I. T. Act . If there is an incidental

encroachment, even then the Aggregator Rules are protected by the

doctrine of pith and substance. Hence, the Aggregator Rules are

not inconsistence either with the I. T. Act or with the Rules made

there under. Secondly, the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner-

Company is unjustified in relying on Section 43-A of the I. T. Act.

For the said section deals with negligence in implementing and

maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures.

However, if the information is required to be shared with a

government agency, the information is neither being shared

negligently, nor there is negligence in implementing the security

practices and procedure. Therefore, the anxiety of the petitioner-

Company that it may be held liable to pay any compensation under Section 43-A of the I. T. Act is highly misplaced. Thirdly, an aggregator does not deal with "sensitive personal

data or information" of the passenger as defined by Rule 3 of the

SPDI Rules. Therefore, Rule 6 of the SPDI Rules is inapplicable to

the aggregator. Fourthly, both the SPDI Rules and the Intermediary

Guidelines provide easy access to the Government Agencies to the

information kept by the intermediary. Hence, there is no conflict

between Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules, and the

provisions of the SPDI Rules and the Intermediary Guidelines,

mentioned above. 230. Prior to the Digital Age, a person's personal information

was known within a limited circle; in the Digital Age the personal

information is available to unlimited people, institutions, and the

government. Personal information is co-related to right of privacy,

as discussed above. The law also recognizes the importance of

safeguarding the personal information of a person. The I. T. Act in

general, and some of the Rules made there under, as mentioned

above, in particular, try to protect the access to personal

information by a third party or even by the government. 231. The learned counsel for the respondents are unjustified

in claiming that since the Aggregator Rules are primarily

concerned with controlling of transport vehicles, therefore, this

court need not go into the question of violation of the I. T. Act and 230 the Rules made there under by the Aggregator Rules. Such a stand

is clearly untenable. For, once the constitutionality of a provision is

challenged on the ground that it violates other laws in force for the

time being, the said contention cannot be brushed under the

carpet. The said plea would have to be adjudicated upon by this

court. 232. Even the argument based on the doctrine of pith and

substance does not hold water. For, Rule 5 (2) of the Aggregator

Rules imposes a duty on the aggregator to comply with the I. T.

Act , in general, and with the Intermediary Guidelines, in

particular. Once this legal duty has been cast upon the aggregator,

naturally the aggregator has a right to know as to what is expected

of it. Since certainty of law is an essential part of Rule of Law, the

aggregator would like to know whether he is required to follow the

requirements of the Aggregator Rules, or the mandate of the I. T. Act and the Rules made there under. Moreover, Section 81 of

the I. T. Act categorically makes the said Act override "anything

inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being

in force." Hence, in case of inconsistency between the requirements

of the Aggregator Rules and of the I. T. Act, or of the Rules made 231 there under, the Aggregator Rules would have to give way to the

latter set of laws. Thus, this court cannot dismiss Mr. Poovayya's

arguments lightly, especially when he has raised a weighty issue.

This court is bound to answer the issue raised by the learned

Senior Counsel. 233. Undoubtedly, an aggregator is both an online-market

place for providing taxi services, and gives an online payment site.

Thus, an aggregator is an "intermediary" as defined under Section

2 (w) of the I. T. Act. Once the aggregator is an intermediary, it falls

under the purview of the I. T. Act and the Rules made there under

mentioned hereinabove. 234. At the cost of repetition, Section 2 (i) of the SPDI Rules

defines the term "personal information" as meaning "any

information that relates to a natural person, which, either directly or

indirectly, in combination with other information available or likely to

be available with a body corporate, is capable of identifying such

person." 235. Rule 3 of the SPDI Rules further defines "Sensitive

personal data or information" as under: Again at the cost of repetition, Rule 6 of the SPDI Rules deals

with "Disclosure of Information". It is as under: 236. Meanwhile, Rule 3 of the Intermediary Rules deals with

"Due diligence to be observed by intermediary". Rule 3 (6) of the

Intermediary Rules clearly imposes a legal duty upon the 235 intermediary "to strictly follow the provisions of the Act or any other

laws for the time being in force." Thus, the intermediary is also

required to adhere to Rule 6 of the SPDI Rules. Furthermore, Rule 7 of the Intermediary Rules itself deals

with sharing of information by the intermediary with the

government. It is as follows: 237. On the other hand, as mentioned above, Rules 10 (c)

and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules require that the aggregator

should give access to the licensing authority or to a person 236 nominated by the licensing authority at any time and on demand.

Clearly, Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules are

contrary to the procedure and rights prescribed by Rule 6 of the

SPDI Rules, and to Rule 3 (7) of the Intermediaries Guidelines. For,

while the former Rules gives access to the licensing authority "at

any time" and "on demand", the latter Rules bestow certain rights

on the person providing the information, prescribe the

circumstances under which the information can be accessed by

the government, and also prescribe the procedure to be followed by

the government before it can access the information which is with

the intermediary. Since Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator

Rules are clearly contrary to the mandatory provisions of Rule 6 of

the SPDI Rules, and to Rule 3 (7) of the Intermediary Guidelines,

since Rule 5 (2) of the Aggregator Rules makes it mandatory for the

aggregator to follow the Intermediary Guidelines, Rules 10 (c) and

10 (v) are unsustainable; the said provisions are unconstitutional. 238. Of course, the learned counsels for the respondent are

justified in claiming that if the aggregator were to give access to the

government at its asking, the aggregator cannot be said to be

negligent in parting with the said information. Hence, the 237 aggregator cannot be held liable under Section 43-A of the I. T. Act.

Therefore, the argument raised by Mr. Poovayya with regard to Section 43-A of the I. T. Act is unacceptable. 239. But the moot question is under what circumstances is

the aggregator required to share the information with the

government? 240. Under Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules,

the aggregator is required to give access to the information at any

time and on demand; under the Rule 6 of the SPDI Rules the

intermediary is required to give access to the information only after

seeking consent of the concerned party, or if the government were

to seek the information within the well defined circumstances, then

without the consent of the concerned party. But even then, the

government is required to follow certain procedure prescribed by

the said Rules. Rule 3 (7) of the Intermediary Rules is on similar

line as Rule 6 of the SPDI Rules. Therefore, the learned counsel

for the respondent are not unjustified in claiming that since the

SPDI Rules and the Intermediary Rules provide easy access of the

government to the information, there is no conflict between these 238 two Rules and the Aggregator Rules. As mentioned above, Rules 10 (c) and Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator are inconsistent with the

requirements of Rule 3 (7) of the Intermediary Rules and with Rule

6 of the SPDI Rules. Hence, Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the

Aggregator Rules are unconstitutional. Doctrine of Severability 241. A critical analysis of the Aggregator Rules has lead this

court to declare few provisions of the Aggregator Rules as

unconstitutional. However, merely because few provisions have

been declared as unconstitutional, would it also affect the

constitutional validity of the entire Aggregator Rules or not ? This

is one of the last issues to be tackled by this court. 242. In the case of R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla and Another

(supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has dealt with the doctrine of

severability and summarized the construction laid down by the

American Courts where the question of severability has been the

subject of regular consideration. The summary is as under:- 243. Thus, in case those parts which have been held to be

constitutional, can be separated from the invalid parts, and if the

remaining valid part could have been framed by the State

Government, knowing full well that some parts are invalid, in that

case, the valid parts can be separated and can continue to exist. It

is only if the valid and invalid parts are so extrinsically mixed up

that they cannot be separated that the invalidity of a portion must

result in the invalidity of the entire statute. Therefore, the

question is, whether the Aggregator Rules can exist de hors the

provisions declared unconstitutional by this court or not ? 244. A bare perusal of the provisions which have been held

to be unconstitutional would clearly reveal that the remaining part

of the Aggregator Rules does not rest so heavily upon these

provisions that in case Aggregator Rules are separated from these

provisions, the Aggregator Rules would collapse by itself. The

invalid provisions are merely like partition walls which do not 242 support the super structure of the Aggregator Rules. Therefore,

the Aggregator Rules continue to validly exist even if the valid parts

of the Aggregator Rules are separated from the invalid portions.

Therefore, applying the doctrine of severability, this court need not

declare the entire Aggregator Rules as unconstitutional. Therefore,

the contention raised by Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior

Counsel, that the invalidity of certain provisions would endanger

the very existence of the Aggregator Rules is clearly unacceptable.

A Few More Issues: 245. Before we draw the curtain on this order, there are still

few issues which need to be resolved: firstly, whether the State

Government has the power to prescribe the fare to be charged by

the aggregator or not? Secondly, whether the petitioner-Company

can be forced to adhere to the fare limits prescribed by the State or

not? Thirdly, whether the notice dated 23-4-2016 issued by the

Transport Commissioner to the petitioner-Company is legally valid

or not? Fourthly, whether the police, or the officers of the

respondent No. 2 are justified in seizing the taxis under Section

207 of the Act or not? 246. A concerted effort was made by the Prof. Ravi Verma

Kumar, Mr. S. S. Naganand, and Mr. S. P. Shankar, the learned

Senior Counsel, to ensure that the petitioner-Company is not

permitted to charge more fare than prescribed by the Government.

However, Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior counsel, has

thwarted their efforts by firstly conceding that under the Act, the

State does have the power to prescribe the limits of fare to be

charged by the taxi permit holder and the aggregator. Secondly,

the learned Senior counsel has given an undertaking before this

court that the petitioner-Company shall not charge more than the

maximum fare prescribed by the Government. Mr. Sajan

Poovayya's only concern is that the Government should permit the

petitioner-Company to charge the maximum fare during the peak

hours when the demand for the taxis is at the highest point. To

this concern, Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the learned Additional Advocate

General, has conceded that the Government would not have any

objection if the petitioner-Company were to charge the maximum

fare amount from the passenger as prescribed by the Government.

However, the Government is only concerned that the petitioner-

Company, and the other aggregator, should not charge fares higher 244 than the maximum fares prescribed by the Government. With the

undertaking given by Mr. Sajan Poovayya, and the concession

made by Mr. A. S. Ponnanna, the first two issues need not be

decided by this court. 247. Mr. Sajan Poovaya, the learned Senior Counsel, has

challenged the impugned notice, mentioned above, inter alia on the

ground that since the Aggregator Rules are ultra vires the Act,

since the said Rules are unconstitutional, therefore the Transport

Commissioner is not justified in issuing the said notice. The

learned Senior Counsel has further contented that since the

application filed by the petitioner-Company is still pending with

the Regional Transport Authority, it is for the respondent to

expedite the same and to grant the license. The Regional Transport

Authority cannot be permitted to sit over the application and to

simultaneously adversely affect the operations of the petitioner-

Company in running its business. 248. On the other hand, Mr. A.S. Poonnanna, the learned

Additional Advocate General, has defended the said notice on the

ground that the notice has been issued under the provisions of a 245 validly promulgated Aggregator Rules and under Section 93 of the

Act. 249. Since this court has already held that the Aggregator

Rules are constitutional, the impugned notice cannot be faulted.

However, as the petitioner-Company has filed its application for

seeking the license under the Aggregator Rules, the same should

be expedited within a reasonable time. For, while an aggregator is

legally bound to apply for a license under the Aggregator Rules, a

corresponding duty is also cast upon the Regional Transpoer

Authority to expeditiously deal with the application, provided the

aggregator fulfills the requirements of the Aggregator Rules. 250. As far as the seizure of the taxi is concerned, a

distinction has to be maintained between "breach of a condition of

permit", and violation of "the purpose" for which the permit is

granted. In the case of State of Maharashtra and Ors. v

Nanded-Prabhani Z. L. B. M. V. Operator Sangh [(2000) 2 SCC

69], the Apex Court dealt with breach of a condition of the permit.

For, the Apex Court clearly observed that " The present case is only

concerned with the question of contravention of the condition of 246 permit." In the said case, the condition with regard to number of

passengers which could be legally carried in the vehicle was

violated. It is in this circumstance that the Apex Court opined that

breach of a condition of permit would not allow the licensing

authority to seize the vehicle under Section 207 of the Act.

However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court also observed that "the

purpose would only refer to a contingency when a vehicle having a

permit of a stage carriage is used as a contract carriage or vice

versa or where a vehicle having a permit for stage carriage or

contract carriage is used as a good vehicle and vice versa." 251. Thus, a distinction has to be made between a violation

of "a condition" and the violation of the "purpose" for which the

permit has been given to the permit holder. The extracted portion,

mentioned above, clearly indicates that if "the purpose" for which

the permit is given is violated, then the power of seizure under Section 207 of the Act can be exercised legitimately. In fact, Section 207 of the Act is categorical when it empowers the police or

any person authorised in this behalf by the State Government to

seize and detain any vehicle if "the purpose for which the vehicle

may be used" is violated. Thus, if the All India Tourist Vehicle plies 247 commuters instead of tourists, the permit holder violates the

purpose for which the permit was granted under Section 88 (9) of

the Act. Therefore, the permit holder is violating the very basis of

the law. Hence, the police, or any person authorised by the State

Government is legally justified in seizing and detaining the All

India Tourist Vehicle for such violation. Its action cannot be

faulted. Therefore, the contention raised by Mr. Udaya Holla, the

learned Senior counsel, that the power under Section 207 of the

Act cannot be exercised as the All India Tourist Vehicle permit

holders are merely violating a "condition" of the permit is

unacceptable. The Summary of the Order: 252. This Order is, indeed, a long one where many issues

have been raised, debated, discussed, and decided by this court.

Therefore, it is imperative that a summary of the conclusions

drawn by this court, on different issues, be provided. The

summary is as under:- Hence, the State Government is well within its competence to

 frame the Aggregator Rules under Sections 93 , 95 and 96 (1) of the Act. The Aggregator Rules are, thus, intra-vires

 the Act. 4. The aggregator under the Aggregator Rules, and the Operator

 under the City Taxi Scheme form two distinct and separate

 classes. Therefore, they need not be subjected to the same 249 control, or to the same set of liabilities. Since they are

 unequals, they cannot be treated equally. 5. Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires that an

 aggregator should have a fleet of minimum of hundred taxis,

 either owned or through an agreement, is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 6. Similarly, Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires

 that the taxis registered with an aggregator should have a

 panic button, is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution

 of India. 7. Likewise, Rule 10 (h) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires

 the aggregator to verify the antecedents of the drivers, for the

 last seven years, through the police, before registering the

 driver on its platform, is not violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution of India. Moreover, the requirement is neither

 oppressive, nor unreasonable. Hence, Rule 10 (h) of the

 Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 8. Rule 11 (1) (a), (b), and (c) of the Aggregator Rules, which

 bestows a power on the licensing authority to suspend or to

 cancel the aggregator's license under the circumstances

 mentioned therein, is also not violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution of India. Furthermore, Rule 11 (1) of the

 Aggregator Rules does not grant an unbridled, uncontrolled

 power to the licensing authority to suspend or cancel the

 aggregator's license. Since the said power is circumscribed

 by sufficient safeguards provided under Rules 11 (3) and 12

 of the Aggregator Rules, Rule 11 (1) of the Aggregator Rules

 is constitutionally valid. 9. Rule 10 (n) of the Aggregator Rules, which excludes the All

 India Tourist Vehicle Permit Holder from the purview of the

 Aggregator Rules, is also not violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution of India. 10. All India Tourist Vehicle Permit Holders under Section 88 (9) of the Act form a separate class from the permit holders

 under Sections 74 and 88 (8) of the Act. 11. The All India Tourist Vehicles can carry only tourists and

 cannot ply commuters. 12. The State does have the power to make Rules for the All India

 Tourist Vehicle Permit Holders, provided the said Rules are

 not inconsistent with any Rule made by the Central

 Government for the All India Tourist Vehicles. But merely

 because the State is competent to make such a Rule for the

 All India Tourist Vehicle, the exclusion of the said category

 from the purview of the Aggregator Rules does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 13. The exclusion of All India Tourist Vehicle Permit Holder from

 the Aggregator Rules also does not violate Article 19 (1) (g) of

 the Constitution of India. 14. Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator Rules which prescribes the

 minimum requirement of having hundred taxis for an

 aggregator is a legislative policy decision of the State

 Government. Therefore, this court refrains from declaring the

 requirement as being violative of Article 19 (1) (g) of the

 Constitution of India qua the Start Ups. It is for the State 252 Government to decide the ways and means to encourage and

 promote the interest of the Start Ups in the Taxi Sector. 15. Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules, which prohibits the

 permit holder and the driver, who are registered with an

 aggregator, from independent operation, or from accepting

 booking directly, does violate the fundamental rights of the

 permit holders and the drivers under Article 19 (1) (g) of the

 Constitution of India. Since the restriction is not in the

 interest of the public, Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules is

 not protected by Article 19 (6) of the Constitution of India.

 Thus, Rule 10 (o) of the Aggregator Rules is unconstitutional. 16. Rule 10 (c) and Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules bestow an

 unbridled, uncontrolled power upon the State to have access

 to the personal information about the passenger. Such

 unfettered power is likely to be abused by the State. Thus,

 Rule 10 (c) and Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules violate the

 right of privacy. The right of privacy is not only a human

 right, but is also a fundamental right under Arts. 19 and 21

 of the Constitution of India. Moreover, India being a 253 signatory to International Conventions, which guarantee the

 right of privacy to the people, the Indian Judiciary is legally

 bound to protect and promote the right of privacy. Since

 Rules 10 (c) and 10 (v) of the Aggregator Rules violate the

 right of privacy, they are unconstitutional. Furthermore, the

 said provisions are contrary to other laws of the land, namely

 Rule 6 of the SDPI Rules and Rule 3 (7) of the Intermediary

 Rules. Hence, Rule 10 (c) and Rule 10 (v) of the Aggregator

 Rules are also unconstitutional on this account. 17. Before the conditions to the Aggregator Rules can be read into

 a permit issued under Section 74 of the Act, the Regional

 Transport Authority is legally bound to follow the procedure

 prescribed by Section 74 (2) (ix) of the Act. Hence, the

 conditions imposed by the Aggregator Rules cannot be read

 as automatically attached to the permit issued under Section

 74 of the Act. 18. Rule 8 (c) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires that a

 driver should be a resident of Karnataka for a period of two

 years, and Rule 8 (d) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires 254 that the driver should have a working knowledge of Kannada

 language, both these provisions are constitutionally valid.

 For, these provisions are within the object and purpose of the

 Act, which is to ensure the smooth functioning of the contract

 carriage, and to ensure the safety and comfort of the

 passenger. 19. Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules, which requires an aggregator

 to make a security deposit of Rupees One Lakh for up to one

 thousand taxis, is contradictory to Section 93 (2) of the Act.

 Hence, Rule 14 of the Aggregator Rules is unconstitutional. 20. Rule 5 (3) of the Aggregator Rules, which prohibits the

 aggregator from owning or leasing any vehicle unless it has a

 license under the Aggregator Rules, and Rule 6 (a) of the

 Aggregator Rules, which requires that the aggregator should

 have a fleet of hundred taxis, either owned or through an

 agreement, before it can apply for a license under the

 Aggregator Rules, both these provisions are self-

 contradictory. They cannot co-exist simultaneously. Thus,

 these provisions are unreasonable and 255 arbitrary. Hence, Rule 5 (3) and Rule 6 (a) of the Aggregator

 Rules are unconstitutional. 21. Merely because there are technical difficulties in

 implementation of, and in the efficient functioning of the

 panic button, the requirement of panic button, prescribed by

 Rule 7 (c) of the Aggregator Rules, would not make the said

 provision an unreasonable or arbitrary one. Thus, Rule 7 (c)

 of the Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 22. Rule 7 (e) of the Aggregator Rules, requiring that the taxis

 registered with an aggregator should display a board with the

 word "Taxi" written on it, and which should be illuminated

 during the night, is in public interest. Thus, Rule 7 (e) of the

 Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 23. Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules which imposes the duty

 on the aggregator to investigate a passenger's complaint

 alleging violation of zero tolerance policy can be read down as

 the responsibility "to inquire" into the said complaint. Thus,

 Rule 10 (g) of the Aggregator Rules is constitutionally valid. 256 24. Similarly, Rule 10 (i) of the Aggregator Rules, which requires

 the aggregator to ensure that a driver does not work more

 than the maximum number of hours prescribed by the Motor

 Transport Workers Act, 1961 , is constitutionally valid. For,

 the aggregator has sufficient control over the working of the

 driver, and the functioning of the permit holder through the

 agreement entered between the aggregator and the permit

 holder. Thus, Rule 10 (i) of the Aggregator Rules is

 constitutionally valid. 25. Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules requiring that the taxi

 service has to be available all the time, has to be interpreted

 practically. Thus, it does not require that the taxi service

 should be made available even during abnormal or disastrous

 situations. It merely means that the technological platform

 should be available to the passenger during the normal

 conditions. Hence, Rule 10 (q) of the Aggregator Rules does

 not impose an oppressive condition upon the aggregator. It is

 constitutionally valid. 26. Rule 11 (1) (e) of the Aggregator Rules, which permits the

 licensing authority to suspend or cancel the aggregator's

 license if "any criminal complaint is filed against the driver,

 or the aggregator, or its employee", suffers from vagueness.

 Thus, the said provision is unconstitutional. 27. The petitioner-Company has conceded that the State

 Government has the power, under the Act, to prescribe the

 limits of the fares to be charged by the permit holder. Since

 the petitioner-Company has given an undertaking before this

 court that it will not charge more fare from the passenger

 than the maximum fare laid down by the State Government,

 this court hopes the petitioner-Company will abide by its

 undertaking. 28. The impugned notice dated 23-4-2016 is legally valid as the

 said notice has merely directed the petitioner-Company to

 take a license under the Aggregator Rules. Since the

 Aggregator Rules are constitutionally valid, the notice dated

 23-4-2016 cannot be faulted. 29. In case the All India Tourist Vehicle is found to be carrying

 commuters and not tourists, then such a vehicle is liable to

 be detained and seized under Section 207 of the Act. For,

 while carrying commuters the All India Tourist Vehicles is

 violating the "purpose" for which the permit was issued

 under Section 88 (9) of the Act. 30. This court has declared some of the provisions of the

 Aggregator Rules as being unconstitutional. However, as the

 remaining valid parts of the Aggregator Rules can be severed

 from the invalid parts of the Aggregator Rules, applying the

 doctrine of severability, the Aggregator Rules, de hors the

 invalid parts, are constitutionally valid. 31. Since this court has declared the Aggregator Rules to be

 constitutionally valid, while striking down some of its

 provisions as unconstitutional, the immediate

 implementation of the Aggregator Rules may create some

 difficulties for the petitioner-Company and for other

 aggregators. Therefore, the respondents are directed to give

 the petitioner-Company, and other aggregators, a reasonable 259 time of one month to comply with the requirements of the

 Aggregator Rules. During this period, the respondents are

 directed not to take any coercive steps against the petitioner-

 Company and against the other aggregators. 32. Moreover, since the petitioner-Company has already applied

 for the license under the Aggregator Rules, in case the

 petitioner-Company fulfills the requirements of the

 Aggregator Rules, the respondents are directed to issue the

 license as expeditiously as possible and certainly within a

 period of one month from the date the requirements are

 fulfilled by the petitioner-Company. 33. Since this order may also cause some inconvenience to the

 All India Tourist Vehicle permit holders, the respondents are

 directed to give wide publicity to the fact that the said permit

 holders shall be required to carry only tourists in their

 vehicle(s). Any violation of the purpose of the permit will

 entail seizure and detention of the said vehicle. The wide

 publicity shall be carried out for a period of one month. Only

 thereafter, would the respondents be justified in invoking 260 their power under Section 207 of the Act. Although this court

 does not mean to curtail the power under Section 207 of the

 Act, but its immediate implementation, in the garb of

 following the present order, may lead to inconvenience both

 to the All India Tourist Vehicle permit holder, and to the

 public at large. Hence, the present direction by this court. 34. For the reasons stated above, I pass the following: