1. The cardinal dispute for adjudication in this appeal revolves around the invocation of Bank guarantees executed in terms of an agreement for performance of a works contract. The question is whether the appellant is entitled to a temporary injunction re-straining the respondents from enforcing the Bank guarantees executed by the second respondent on behalf of the appellant, in favour of the first respondent. The plaintiff, M/s. Geo Tech Construction Co. (P) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'Geo Tech') is the appellant and the first respondent M/s. Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. (hereinafter called by acronym 'HSCL') is the first defendant in the suit. The State Bank of Travancore, M. G. Road, Ernakulam is the second defendant. This appeal is directed against the order of the First Additional Sub Judge, Ernakulam in an interim application, I. A. No. 1908 of 1998 in O. S. No. 236 of 1998. 2. The above suit was filed praying for a decree on the following terms : 11-1994, B. G. No. 42/94-95 dated 17-11-1994
and B. G. No. 43/94-95 dated 17-11-1994 issued
by the second defendant and the second defend
ant from making any payment pursuant to the
same. c) to grant such other reliefs requested for by the plaintiff and this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper." Pending the suit the Geo-Tech filed I. A. No. 1908 of 1998 praying for a temporary injunction restraining the HSCL from invoking the above said Bank guarantees and the Bank from making any payment pursuant to it. The said interim application has been dismissed by the court below on the ground that Geo-Tech failed to make out a prima facie case. Hence this appeal. 3. The factual situation 'behind the suit as well as the interim application as reflected from the plaint and the affidavit filed by the appellant is analysed hereunder in a condensed form. The HSCL was the contractor for the work of 'Pile Foundation', 'Pile Caps', Site development works etc. in respect of the 'International Stadium' at Kaloor, Cochin owned by the Greater Cochin Development Authority. As per the Memorandum of understanding arrived at between the HSCL and Geo-Tech, the latter will be entrusted with the execution of the above work on successful finalisation of the lender and Geo-Tech will be the sub contractor for executing it and a contract of agreement was executed between Geo-Tech and the HSCL, in consequence of which the HSCL awarded the work to the Geo-Tech as per letter of intent No. EDM/122- Cochin/ 94/292 dated 7-4-1994. The contract work was successfully completed by the Geo-Tech on 16-4-1996 and the defect liability period was over on 30-11-1996 and the security deposit was re

leased to the Geo-Tech by the HSCL. Consequently the HSCL released the retention amount when the Geo-Tech executed three Bank guarantees for Rs. 5 lakhs each. Thus the total Bank guarantee for Rs. 15 lakhs has been issued by the Bank for the purpose of releasing the retention amount. Since the contract work was successfully completed and the defect liability period was over, the Geo-Tech wrote several letters to the HSCL requesting for the release of the Bank guarantees. However the HSCL was taking effective steps to invoke the Bank guarantees alleging that Geo-Tech had defaulted in remitting Rs. 14.20 lakhs towards the dues under the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund Act . The Geo-Tech did not remit the dues as they had no liability to pay under the Act, Therefore there was clear fraud in the action of the HSCL and thus it would vitiate the very foundation of Bank guarantees. If the Bank guarantees are invoked if would result in irretrievable harm and injustice to the Geo-Tech. In view of the above cause the Geo-Tech filed the suit O. S. No. 236 of 1998 before the Sub Court, Emakulam with the prayers afore stated. Along with the suit I. A. No. 1908/98 seeking temporary injunction was also filed. 4. The application for temporary injunction was opposed by the HSCL and a counter affidavit had been filed. The contentions of the HSCL as revealed from the counter affidavit are thus : The Bank guarantee is a separate agreement and the underlying contract or the respective contentions of the parties on merits cannot be dragged into the matter of invocation of Bank guarantee. Three Bank guarantees were furnished for the refund of retention money and the Bank has undertaken unconditionally to pay the amount claimed by the HSCL on demand and without any demur. The HSCL is the sole judge to say whether Geo-Tech has committed any breach or breaches of any of the terms and conditions of the contract between the parties. The contemporaneous correspondence would prove that there was no fraud being played by the HSCL and it was specifically agreed to by the Geo-Tech that all the liabilities under the law for the time being in force in respect of any labour employed by the contractor and any expenditure incurred by the employer shall be payable by the Geo-Tech and the HSCL has a lien for such amounts on the security deposit which includes the retention 

amount. A formal agreement was entered into between the Geo-Tech and the HSCL on 7-4-1994, which contains several documents including tender documents, general conditions of contract, correspondence exchanged between the HSCL and the Geo-Tech and the Memorandum of Understanding between the parties, letter of intent issued in favour of the Geo-Tech and the form of agreement between them. Under Clause 27 of the General Conditions of Contract, Geo-Tech shall at all times indemnify the HSCL against all claims of compensation in respect of any workmen employed by the Geo-Tech. In view of this and various other provisions contained in the general conditions of contract and the terms contained in the Bank guarantees and other attendant circumstances, it would reveal that the Geo-Tech had agreed to retain the Bank guarantees, indemnify the HSCL in case it had to incur any expenditure by way of contribution towards Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund. The Bank had an unconditional liability to pay the amount to the HSCL and the Geo-Tech had agreed for the same in its letter dated 20-12-1996. The Geo-Tech is bound to pay the contribution to the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund in respect of the workers engaged by it. The plea of fraud and irretrievable injustice is totally unfounded. Under the agreement dated 7-4-1994 any liability including the contribution payable to the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund is that of the Geo-Tech. 5. The Court below marked the photo copies of three Bank guarantees CLI 41/94-95, CLI 42/ 94-95 and CLI 43/94-95 as Exts. A1 to A3 respectively, Ext. B 1 is the copy of the General Conditions of contract (extracts) and Ext, B 2 is the copy of the General Instructions and notice inviting tenders. After considering these and other documents produced in the case, the court below found that the Geo-Tech is liable to pay the contribution under the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund Act inasmuch as it admitted the execution of Exts. B 1 and B 2. While dismissing the petition on the ground that the Geo-Tech failed to make out a prima facie case for temporary injunction the Court below, inter alia, observed to the following effect: The HSCL being the contractor G.C.D.A. deducted 1% from the part payments of the bills towards the contribution under the Construction Workers Welfare 

Fund Act. Though HSCL challenged the said deduction in this court and Supreme Court it had no case that the liability to pay contribution is on Geo-Tech. However, the liability arises in view of execution of Exts. B 1 and B 2. The plea of 'irretrievable injustice' made by the Geo-Tech is negatived inasmuch as the HSCL as not done any act fraudulently causing injustice to the Geo-Tech. 6. During the hearing of this appeal it was brought to our notice that the HSCL had produced seven documents. However, those documents were not seen marked in the certified copy of the order supplied to the HSCL. From the impugned order it is seen that the Geo-Tech has produced Exts. A1 to A11 and the HSCL has produced Exts. B1 to B5. The Court below has committed an error in not properly marking the documents produced by the parties. No witnesses were examined by the Court below and arguments were heard on the basis of the documents produced by the parties. In the present proceeding the Geo-Tech has filed C.M.P. No. 4380 of 1998 for accepting certain documents in evidence. We have allowed the petition and accordingly the letter of intent dated 7-4-1997 has been taken in evidence. So also on the side of the HSCL C.M.P. No. 4935 of 1998 was filed praying to accept the General Conditions of contract of M/s. Hindustan Steel Works Construction Limited in evidence. We have allowed this petition also. In addition to these documents both parties in the course of hearing, have placed reliance on documents relating to the agreement executed between the parties and no objections had been raised by them during the hearing. 7. Before embarking on the crucial question of temporary injunction, it would be worthwhile to have a peep into the sanctity of Bank guarantees in commercial transactions. Section 126 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines 'Contract of guarantee' as a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The contract of guarantee is a trilateral contract, that is to say three persons, surety, principal debtor and creditor are involved. Generally speaking, contract of guarantee, such as Bank guarantee, letters of credit etc. are absolute and unqualified. But Willkins Micawber's definition of guarantee in Dickens' masterpiece, David Copperfield is, "A guarantee is where one 

man that can't pay gets another man that can't pay to say he will". This appears to be a cynical approach but really thought-provoking. This popular belief is totally denounced in the case of contract of Bank guarantees. In Tarapore & Co., Madras v. V/o Tractors Export, Moscow (1969) 2 S.C.R. 920 : (AIR 1970 SC 1168) the Supreme Court observed that it was a mechanism of great importance in international trade and any interference with that mechanism was bound to have serious repercussions on the international trade of this country. In other words, what is said is that the Courts should not lightly interfere with the mechanism and autonomy of contract of Bank guarantees and irrevocable latter of credit. It must be recalled that the contract of Bank guarantee revolves around internal trade transactions in the country. In Svenska Handelsbanken v. Indian Charge Chrome , 1994 (1) SCC 502 : (AIR 1994 SC 626) the Supreme Court said: The trust in commerce internal and international would be irreparably damaged if the commitment of Banks is not honoured free from interference by Courts. 8. The underlying dispute between the parties is whether the Geo-Tech is liable to indemnify the HSCL in respect of the contribution paid or payable under the provisions of the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund Act . This is an Act intended to provide for the constitution of a fund to grant relief to promote the welfare of and to pay pension to the construction workers in the State of Kerala and for other matters incidental thereto. In view of the provisions contained in Clause (e) of Section 2 , the Geo-Tech will be the 'contractor' and the HSCL will be the 'employer' and in view of Sub-section (2) of Section 8 the employer shall contribute 1% of the cost of construction work undertaken by it to the Fund. The above Act came up for interpretation before this Court in Poulose v. State of Kerala . ILR (1993) 3 Kerala 675. There the main challenge 

was directed against Section 2 (g) and Section 8(2) of the Act as also the levy of licence fee under Section 9 . This court found Sections 2 (g) and 8(2) of the Act and Clauses 25 and 26 of the Scheme valid. The learned single judge of this court observed : However, the HSCL filed writ petition. O. P. No. 1 1626 of 1994 claiming exemption from the provisions of the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund Act on the ground that it is a government company wholly owned and controlled by the Central Government. The above contention was negatived by this Court and the matter went up in appeal before the Supreme Court in Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. v. State of Kerala , (1997) 5 SCC 171 : (AIR 1997 SC 2275). The Supreme Court in the said decision upheld the decision of this Court in Poulose 's case, ILR (1993) (3) Kerala 675 and the claim of the HSCL for exclusion from the purview of the Act was negatived. However, the Supreme Court in page 180 of the report observed (at page 2280 of AIR) : In view of the above decision it is settled that the HSCL is not entitled to claim exemption on the ground, of it being a company owned by the Central Government. However, HSCL took the view that the liability to pay the contribution under the Act is on Geo-Tech and it had undertaken to indemnify the HSCL for the defaults committed by non-payment of contribution. It may not be proper for this court to adjudicate this dispute in the present proceeding finally since we are concerned here only with regard to the invocation of bank guarantee executed for refund of retention money. 9. The first and foremost contention advanced by the learned counsel for Geo-Tech is that there was no undertaking by the Geo-Tech to indemnify HSCL for the payment of contribution towards welfare fund dues. He explained the point by submitting that there being no guarantee at all to discharge such liability, the attempt to enforce a non-existing guarantee is liable to be restrained by an order of injunction. He further added that if there was a term in the contract whereby Geo-Tech had undertaken to pay 1% contribution towards welfare fund dues HSCL is within its rights in enforcing the guarantee. Therefore he pleaded that enforcement of Bank guarantees is vitiated by fraud and irretrievable injustice. 10. On the other hand, the HSCL claims indemnification in respect of contribution under the Welfare Fund Act paid or payable to the workers employed by Geo-Tech for the performance of works contract. The counsel for the HSCL by placing reliance on different sections in the Act argued that the statutory liability to pay the contribution was on the Geo-Tech who had employed workers in execution of the contract and for that reasons it had to indemnify the HSCL for the payment of contribution paid or payable. He pleaded that the claim for injunction against the invocation of Bank guarantees cannot be allowed in view of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in various decisions. There is neither fraud nor irretrievable injustice as alleged. If at all any injury is caused it can be retrieved by filing suits against HSCL for recovery of money or otherwise. Since the Bank guarantee is an independent contract, terms of the underlying contract between the parties need not be looked into in a suit for injunction against the enforcement of Bank guarantee. He also placed particular reliance on Clause 27 of the General Conditions of Contract which runs thus : II. Now let us ascertain the nature of and circumstances under which the contract of Bank guarantees (Exts. A1 to A 3) were given by the Bank in favour of the HSCL on behalf of the Geo-Tech. An agreement was made on 7th day of April 1994 between the HSCL and Geo-Tech for the execution of the work of site development, pile foundation and pile caps of the International Stadium at Kaloor by Geo-Tech. The following documents shall be deemed to form and be read and construed as part of the agreement, namely : You shall also arrange power and water supply arrangement for the entire project requirement by obtaining approvals and depositing necessary security and other expenditures to the State Authorities. On completion of your contract, the Security Deposits and the cost of Transformer supplied by you will be reimbursed to you. (11) As a special case to expedite the work and start no time you shall be granted an interest bearing mobilisation advance equal to Rs. 1,50,00,000/- (Rupees one crore fifty lakhs only) against Bank Guarantee as per HSCL's approved format. Clause 19 of the General Instructions and notice inviting tenders provides for security deposit and the refund of retention money. The said clause reads thus : The terms contained in the above clause with regard to security deposit and retention money have been modified as per Ext. A 8 letter dated 1-8-1994 sent by the HSCL to Geo-Tech. The letter is extracted here under : It was in view of the above provisions the Bank guarantees were given by the Bank. The question is whether this Court can injunct the Bank or HSCL from enforcing such Bank guarantees executed specifically for refunding the retention money. 12. In this context it would be worthwhile to examine the terms and conditions contained in the Bank guarantees which is common in all respects. Exts. A 1 to A 3 dated 17-11-1994 are the Bank guarantees bearing numbers Clause 41, Clause 42 and Clause 43 of 1994-95, each for the amount of Rs. 5 lakhs. The relevant portions of the Bank guarantee are reproduced hereunder : 13. A conjoint reading of Ext. A8 letter and the terms contained in the Bank guarantee would broadly bring forth the following features. (1) That Geo-Tech is allowed to submit Bank guarantees for every Rs. 5 lakh for the release of retention money when it exceeds Rs. 10.25 lakhs. (2) That the cash retention of Rs. 5.25 lakhs and series of Bank guarantees furnished as above together constitute retention money. (3) That the Bank guarantee for 50% of the total retention money shall be valid till completion of work and the remaining 50% till the end of defect liabilities period. (4) That the Bank undertakes to unconditionally pay the amount claimed by HSCL without demur and thus to indemnify HSCL against any loss or damage, charges and expenses suffered by HSCL by reason of breach by the Geo-Tech of any of the terms of contract. (5) That the Bank agreed that HSCL shall be the sole judge to decide as to whether Geo-tech has committed breach of any terms and conditions of the contract. (6) That the decision of the HSCL as to the question of breach or as to the amount of loss or damage suffered by it shall be final and binding on the Bank. (7) That the Bank has agreed that the Bank guarantee shall remain in force and effect during the period of performance of contract. (8) That the HSCL has the liberty to vary any
of the terms and conditions of contract without
affecting in any way the liability of the Bank
under the guarantee. (9) That the Bank guarantee shall be enforceable against the Bank notwithstanding any security obtained by HSCL. (10) That it is not necessary for the HSCL to proceed against Geo-Tech before proceeding against the Bank. (11) The cash part of the retention money (Rupees five point two five lakhs) shall be released at the end of defect liability period after adjustment against dues to Greater Cochin Development Authority/HSCL if any. 14. It is no doubt true that the terms and conditions of the contract do not specifically refer to the payment of contribution under the Welfare Fund Act. That does hot mean the whole transaction is vitiated for exercise of fraud. Whether such payment falls under any general provisions of the contract is a dispute to be decided between the parties. As far as the Bank is concerned when HSCL says that there is breach by the Geo-Tech that is the final word. What is before us is the Bank guarantees executed specifically for the refunds of retention money and enforcement of such Bank guarantees. This court cannot say either while executing the Bank guarantees oral the time of its enforcement, the HSCL has exercised fraud either on Geo-Tech or on the Bank. There must be prima facie strong evidence at least for alleging that a transaction is vitiated by fraud. In this behalf we have to look into the plaint and affidavit for that purpose. 15. It is an admitted case that on 13-6-1996 the Geo-Tech requested the Bank to extend the Bank guarantee upto 30-11-1996 for the reason that the guarantee period for all the three Bank 

guarantees would expire on 30-6-1996. Accordingly it was extended upto 30-11-1996. Again by letter dated 30-11-1996 the period of the Bank guarantee was extended. Thus the guarantee period in respect of the above three Bank guarantees was extended from time to time, and finally it was extended upto 28-5-1998. The HSCL by its letter dated 16-2-1998 requested the Geo-Tech to remit Rs. 14.20 lakhs being 1% contract value towards contribution to the Welfare Fund. That request may be to monitor the retention money. When the HSCL represents breach or default by the Geo-Tech that is final and conclusive as far-as the Bank is concerned. That will naturally result in the enforcement of Bank guarantee. It was in the above Circumstances the Geo-Tech filed the present suit on 26-2-1998 seeking injunction against the Bank. 16. What is argued by the counsel for HSCL is that the Court need not look into the underlying contract or the correspondence between the parties relating to the terms of the contract. What is primarily to be seen is the terms contained in the contract of Bank guarantee. The counsel has specifically drawn our attention to the decision of another Division Bench of this court in Unique Alliance Industries v. Anupama Agencies 1994 (2) KLT 831 : (AIR 1995 Kerala 52) wherein one of us (Mohammed, J.) spoke on behalf of the Bench. After placing reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court in Syndicate Bank v. Vijayakumar, AIR 1992 SC 1066 the Court held in that case that the terms contained in the Bank guarantee alone need be considered for its enforceability. In other words, the obligations arising under the Bank guarantee are independent of the obligations arising out of a specific contract between the parties. Therefore the Court should not lightly interfere with the operation of Bank guarantee or irrevocable documentary credit. In order to restrain the operation of an irrevocable letter of credit, performance of bond or guarantee by the order of the Court, there should be a good prima facie act of fraud or irretrievable injustice. 17. In General Electric Technical Services Company Inc. v. Punj Sons (P) Ltd. , AIR 1991 SC 1994 the Supreme Court held that the Bank could not be interdicted by the Court in the absence of fraud or special equities in the form of preventing irretrievable injustice between the 

parties. It further held that the High Court in the absence of prima facie case on such matters has committed an error in restraining the Bank from honouring its commitment under the Bank guarantee. Prevention of 'irretrievable injustice' between the parties was considered to be a special equity. Therefore in all such cases the plea of fraud or irretrievable injustice shall not be allowed unless they are proved by affidavit or otherwise. In a later decision in Ansal Engineering Projects Ltd. v. Tohri Hydro Development Corporation 1996 (5) SCC 450 the Supreme Court made it abundantly clear as to the burden of proof in this regard as thus : 18. What is emphasized by the Supreme Court in the above decision is that the fraud and special equity shall be made out prima facie in the case as a triable issue by strong evidence so as to prevent irretrievable injustice to the parties. As far as fraud is concerned, it must be an esiablished fraud and further it must be a fraud known to the Bank. In Derry v. Peek 1989 App Cases 337 it is observed thus : Lord Denning observed in Edward Owen Engineering Ltd, v. Barclays Bank International Ltd. (1978) 1 All ER 976 : In U. P. Co-operative Federation Ltd. v. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. (1988) 1 SCC 174 the Supreme Court said : It is the fraud of the beneficiary, not the fraud of anybody else. It is reiterated in N.T.P.C. Ltd. v. Flowmore Pvt. Ltd. , AIR 1996 SC 445. In I.T.C. Ltd. v. Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal , AIR 1998 SC 634 the Supreme Court said at page 638 : 19. In State Trading Corporation of India Limited v. Jainsons Clothing Corporation (1994) 6 SCC 597 : (AIR 1994 SC 2778) the Supreme Court said at page 2783; of AIR : In Hindustan Steel Workers Construction Ltd. v. G. S. Atwal & Co. (Engg.) Pvt. Ltd. , AIR 1996 SC 131 it observed : In R.D. Harbottle (Mercantile) Ltd. v. National Westminster Bank Ltd. (1977) 2 All ER 862), Kerr. J. said : In Edward Owen Engineering Ltd.'s case, supra(1978) 1 All ER 976 the court said that the net effect of the injunction is to restrain the bank from performing the bank guarantee which cannot be done whereas the respondent could sue the appellant for damages. 20. Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act defines 'fraud'. It is a comprehensive term and embraces large number of delinquencies. A person who alleges fraud must give particulars thereof in his pleadings. It must be established beyond any reasonable doubt. Lord Alkin in A. L. N. Narayanan Chettiyar v. Official Assignee , AIR 1941 PC 93 observed at page 95 : Order XXXIX Rule 1 authorises the issue of a temporary injunction in a suit only when it is proved by affidavit or otherwise the actions alleged against the defendant or any party to the suit. The court cannot order temporary injunction as a matter of course when there is a debatable and arguable case prima facie. Only when a case is proved by affidavit or otherwise the court gets the power to order temporary injunction in exercise of its discretion. It can be granted 'for the purpose of staying and preventing the wasting, damaging, alienation, sale, removal or disposition of the property or dispossession of the plaintiff, otherwise causing injury to the plaintiff, in relation to any property in dispute in the suit'. But, at the same time, it may be recalled that the granting of temporary, injunction is not a panacea for all disputes coming before courts. When the purpose of obtaining injunction is 

pleaded, unless it is proved by affidavit or otherwise, the court can refuse to order temporary injunction, even if the court feels that there is a debatable or arguable case. The pleadings make only allegations or averments of facts. Mere pleading does not make a strong prima facie case. The case must be established with sufficient material or proved by affidavit. What is required is a finding that a prima facie case for temporary injunction is proved or made out. 21. What is 'irretrievable injustice'? 'Irretrievable' means not retrievable or irreparable. New Webster's dictionary says the word 'retrieve' means to recover or regain, to rescue or save, to restore or bring back to a former and better state. In Svenska Handelsbanken 's case (1994) 1 SCC 502 the Supreme Court says, 'irretrievable injury' is of the nature as noticed in the case of Itek Corporation v. The First National Bank of Boston 566 Fed. Supp. 1210-1217. The expression "to prevent irretrievable injustice", appears to have its origin from the decision of the Court of Appeal in the case of Elian and Rabbath (Trading As Elian & Rabbath) v. Matsas and Matsas 1966 (2) Lloyd's Rep. 495. Though that case has been distinguished on facts by the Supreme Court in Svenska Handelsbanken 's case (1994) 1 SCC 502 : (AIR 1994 SC 626), it would be worthwhile to note what actually is 'irretrievable injustice'. Lord Denning M. R. on the basis of the facts available in that case said, that was a special case in which an injunction should be granted by the court to prevent what might be 'irretrievable injustice'. He further said : Elian's case (supra) has been referred to in U.P. Co-operative Federation Ltd. 's case (1988) 1 SCC 174 and in Svenska Handelsbanken 's case (1994) I SCC 502 : (AIR 1994 SC 626). In the latter case the Supreme Court after analysing the 
facts in Elian's case, observed : 22. Itek Corporation's case, (supra), has been referred to by the Supreme Court in Svenska Handelsbanken 's case(1994) 1 SCC 502, and in N.T.P.C. 's case (AIR 1996 SC 445). In the former case, after narrating the facts the Supreme Court observed that the judgment in Itek's case is on peculiar facts of its own and the situation created after the Iranian revolution when the American Government cancelled the export licence in relation to Iran as it related to high technology. Finally it said : In N.T.P.C. 's case, supra, the Supreme Court observed : The Court further said : The learned counsel for the Geo-Tech has placed reliance on the decisions in Elian's case and Itek's case which we have discussed herein above, where the courts in England interfered on account of irretrievable injustice. As observed by the, Supreme Court the factual situation in those cases are totally different and they have no comparison or similarity to the facts of the present case; 23. In U. P. Co-operative Federation 's case (1988) 1 SCC 174 the Supreme Court after elaborately discussing Edward Owen Engineering's case (1978) I All ER 976 held that the Bank must pay according to its guarantee, on demand as stipulated, without proof or conditions. The only exception is when there is a clear fraud of which the bank has notice. If the bank detects with a minimal investigation the fraudulent action of the seller, the payment could be refused. By placing reliance on the decision the Supreme Court in Hindustan Steel Workers Construction Ltd. v. Tarapore and Co. , AIR 1996 SC 2268 observed at page 2274 : However the court refused to interfere for the reason that there was no pleading of fraud and special equities pleaded are insufficient. After placing reliance on U. P. Co-operative Federation 's case and H.S.C.L. 's case (supra) the Supreme Court in New India Assurance Company Ltd. v. Kusumanchi Kameshwara Rao and another (1997) 9 SCC 179 held that as per Sections 91 and 92 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 no evidence dehors the terms of the agreement, whether documentary or oral, can be led by the parties to get out of the express terms thereof. It further held : 24. the above analysis of the 'case law relating to 'fraud' and 'irretrievable injustice' would reveal that the following points may have decisive role in the matter of granting or refusing injunction against the enforcement of bank guarantee. (1) The obligations arising under the Bank guarantee are independent of the obligations arising out of specific or underlying contract. (2) The plea of fraud or irretrievable injustice shall not be allowed unless a prima facie case is made out as a triable issue by a strong evidence. (3) The plea of fraud must be an established fraud and it must be a fraud known to the bank. (4) The fraud alleged must be a fraud of an 'egregious nature' as to vitiate the entire underlying transaction. (5) The fraud shall be fraud of beneficiary and not the fraud of anybody else. (6) The subsequent dispute in the performance of the contract does not give rise to issue an injunction. (7) In the event of the dispute in the main contract ends in party's favour he is entitled to damages or other consequential reliefs. (8) The irreparable injury should not be speculative. It should be genuine and immediate as well as irreversible. (9) Irretrievable injustice must be of the kind referred to in the case of 'Itek Corporation' if the bank guarantees are realised. (10) If the bank detects with minimal investigation, the fraudulent action the payment could be refused. (11) A demand by the beneficiary under the bank guarantee may become fraudulent because of subsequent events taking place after executing the underlying contract. 25. Learned counsel for the appellant has forcefully contended that if there was no contractual liability undertaken by the principal debtor there could not be any question of enforcing a guarantee for a non-existent liability. That means it goes to the root of the underlying contract and in such situation there is no question of fraud or irretrievable injustice, so argued by the counsel. Therefore what the counsel pleaded is that the court has to go into the question whether the guarantee covers the claim sought to be realised or the amount sought to be recovered. In support of this plea, the recent decisions of the Supreme Court in National Textiles Corporation (South Maharashtra) Limited v. Tamil Nadu Co-operative Marketing Federation Ltd. 1998 (5) JT SC 174 : (AIR 1998 SC 2658) and in New India Assurance Company Ltd. v. Kusumanchi Kameshwara Rao (1997) 9 SCC 179 were cited. On the basis of these decisions counsel points out that there is no necessity to show fraud in a case where the question whether the principal debtor has contracted to pay the liability, is in dispute: That means when non-liability is pleaded, the fraud need not be established. When this proposition is applied to the facts of the present case, the position would be that the enforcement of Exts. A1 to A3 bank guarantees can be injuncted in view of the fact that the Geo-Tech has disputed the liability to pay the contribution under the Kerala Construction Workers Welfare Fund Act , 

without establishing fraud on the part of HSCL or irretrievable injustice to which proposition we cannot agree. 26. In National Textile Corporation 's case (supra) 1998 (5) JT (SC) 174 : (AIR 1998 SC 2658) the principal debtor disclaimed liability to pay the amount covered by the bank guarantee. The beneficiary invoked the bank guarantee for the balance amount. Thereupon the principal debtor filed the suit in the High Court praying for a declaration that the bank guarantee stood discharged and/or was void. The prayer for ad-interim relief was rejected against which appeals were filed before the Division Bench. Those appeals were dismissed. Thereupon filed appeals before the Supreme Court by the special leave. The Supreme Court said that the appellants furnished irrevocable bank guarantee where under the second respondent unequivocally and unconditionally agreed to pay the first respondent on demand the price of the 'Kapas' not paid by the appellants. Accordingly the court held that the High Court was right in concluding that the appellant was not entitled to any ad interim relief. Therefore this is not a case where the High Court or Supreme Court granted injunction against the invocation of bank guarantee. The suit itself arose after the first respondent therein invoked the bank guarantee. There was no plea of fraud or irretrievable injustice. In the present case the temporary injunction was also sought on the ground of fraud and irretrievable injury. In New India Assurance Company 's case (supra) (1997) 9 SCC 179 the Supreme Court in the case of confirmed bank guarantees/irrevocable letters of credit, held that the court will not interfere with the same unless there is fraud and irretrievable damages involved in the case and the fraud has to be an established fraud. The appeal before the Supreme Court arose in a suit for recovery of the money by the beneficiary against the guarantor. Neither the plaintiff nor the defendant pleaded fraud or irretrievable injustice. The court elaborately considered the question whether the guarantee covers the liability sought to be recovered and such a consideration was necessary since the suit was one for recovery of money arising out of a guarantee bond. 27. The counsel for the appellant further argued that the liability to pay contribution towards the welfare fund is not an obligation under 

any of the terms and conditions of the contract. When there is no guarantee at all to discharge such a liability release of the retention money should be allowed. This of course is dependent on the terms of the Bank guarantee and the underlying contract. On the question of credibility to indemnify the HSCL for the payment of contribution, there are conflicting views between the parties, as pointed out earlier. The case of Geo-Tech is that enforcement of Bank guarantee is vitiated for fraud inasmuch as it has no liability to pay the contribution. Can it be said to be a case of fraud much less an established fraud ? How can a person say it is a case of fraud when two opinions are possible on an interpretation of a term of a contract? This plea of fraud shall not be allowed unless a prima facie case is made out as a triable issue by a strong evidence. The averments contained in the affidavit in support of the petition for temporary injunction do not make out an established fraud. Underany circumstance the fraud alleged is not of 'egregious' nature as to vitiate underlying transaction. There is no case for the HSCL that the alleged fraud is known to the bank. Therefore, we are of the view that the HSCL has failed to make a prima facie case of 'established fraud' as envisaged by the Supreme Court in Ansal 's case 1996 ( 5) SCC 450, U.P. Co-operative Federation 's case 1998 ( 1) SCC 174 and ITC 's case, AIR 1998 SC 634. 28. As discussed herein above, the bank guarantee provides that the Bank undertakes and agrees to indemnify HSCL against any loss or damage etc. caused to or suffered by HSCL by reason of breach of any of the conditions of contract and to unconditionally pay the amount claimed by HSCL on demand and without de-mur. There is a further recital that HSCL shall be sole Judge as to whether Geo-Tech has committed breach of any terms and conditions of contract. The Supreme Court while dealing with similar terms in a bank guarantee observed in H.S.C.L. 's case, AIR 1996 SC 131 thus: In such circumstances the Court said that the
grant of interim injunction against the enforce
ment of bank guarantee is quite illegal and with
out jurisdiction. However, in respect of conditional bank guarantee operative up to completion
of work and trial production the Supreme Court
found that the injunction should have been granted
as held in Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. Maharashtra
State Electricity Board , AIR 1996 SC 334. There
fore in view of the specific terms and conditions
contained in Exts. A1 to A3, the Geo-Tech is not
entitled to get an order of injunction restraining
the invocation of bank guarantees. 29. Now let us turn to the plea of irretrievable injustice. 'Irretrievable injustice' would arise not only from the performance of a written contract but also from outside the terms of the contract. The principle of 'irretrievable injustice' is not a rigid or inflexible formula inasmuch as the circumstances which give rise to it may vary from facts to facts. It cannot be cribbed, cabined or confined within the framework of the terms laid down in a Bank guarantee or the underlying contract. Of course the solemnity and the credibility of a Bank guarantee has to be respected and upheld at all times but at the same time when there is irretrievable injustice it oversteps all other situations. The circumstances involved in this case will have to be evaluated in the abovesaid premise. 30. An obligation is 'vinculum juris' or bond of legal necessity which binds together two or more determinate individuals. The duty to perform the contract is an obligation arising from the terms of the contract. Therefore those obligations must be placed with adequate accuracy so as to determine minutely whether there is violation of those obligations. Before a man is penalised for violation of the obligations, the obligations to be performed by him shall be stated and put before him in precise and explicit terms. It cannot be said in this case that the terms and conditions contained either in the bank guarantee or underlying contract are un-understandable or imperfect. The dispute as to the liability to indemnify the HSCL in respect of the contribution can be adjudicated in a properly framed suit. If ultimately, Geo-Tech is found to. be not liable for contribution then it can be recovered or retrieved from the HSCL, a company owned by the Central Government. There is no case for the Geo-Tech that the company is financially in a

crippled position and therefore there is no possibility to recover the amount or damages from it in case a decree is given to that effect. The person who pleades 'irretrievable injury' must establish that the injury caused to him is genuine and immediate and also irreparable for certain cogent reasons. No such reasons are staled by the Geo-Tech in support of the temporary injunction. That means injunction sought for cannot be granted even if it suffers certain injury" which can be compensated in appropriate proceedings. That is not a reason at all to restrain the invocation of bank guarantee by process of injunction. 31. Let us now examine the pleadings in the present case in support of the prayer for temporary injunction on the ground of fraud and irretrievable injustice. In paragraph 16 of the affidavit it is averred thus : The bank guarantees were admittedly executed for refund of the retention money. The dispute is with regard to the payment of contribution towards welfare fund dues and as we said earlier this dispute cannot be resolved in the present proceeding. It requires to be decided in terms of the provisions contained in large number of documents relating to the underlying contract as referred to earlier. What is involved here is an unconditional bank guarantee and the HSCL, is the sole judge to decide the breach. In such situation, the fraud must be an 'established fraud' to the knowledge of the Bank. The Bank though a party to the suit has no case that there was fraud in creating the bank guarantee or in its performance. What is the fraud committed by the beneficiary and who are the persons involved in fraud? One person alone cannot create fraud. The dispute between the parties on the interpretation of certain provisions contained in the underlying contract does not amount to fraud. Normally fraud consisted of large number of delinquencies and none is alleged against the HSCL. On the basis of suspicion and conjecture, finding of fraud cannot he arrived at. The allegations are quite insufficient to hold that the fraud is established beyond any reasonable doubt. 32. The Supreme Court in Dwarikesh Sugar Industries Ltd. v. Prem Heavy Engineering Works P. Ltd. , AIR 1997 SC 2477 : (1997 All LJ 1425) refused to countenance the plea of fraud in the absence of sufficient pleading in that behalf. The Court said that the application for injunction did not contain allegations of fraud and a bald averment alleging fraud was insufficient. Therefore the Supreme Court held that in the absence of established fraud and not mere allegation of fraud, the Court below could not have granted an injunction relating to the encashment of bank guarantees. As far as the second exception to the rule of granting injunction, the Supreme Court said thus at page 2482 : The above decision rendered by the bench consisting of three Honourable Judges of the Supreme Court took note of the decision in Larson & Toubro 's case (supra) (1995) 6 SCC 68 where an injunction was granted against the invocation of bank guarantee and distinguished the said decision as thus : The Court further laid down : 33. The following observation of the Supreme Court in Ansal Engineering Projects ' (supra) (1996) 5 SCC 450 is apposite in the present context. 34. In U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. Sumac International Ltd. (1997) I SCC 568 : (AIR 1997 SC 1644) the Supreme Court said that the grounds of fraud or irretrievable injustice are not necessarily connected though both may co-exist in some cases. The law in this regard has been explained by the Supreme Court as hereunder at page 1649; of AIR : In view of the principle laid down in this decision the existence of the dispute as to the liability to pay the contribution under the Welfare Fund Act between the parties is not a ground for issuing injunction to restrain the enforcement of the bank guarantees. Under no circumstances the present case will fall within the two exceptions carved out by the courts as discussed herein above. 35. Finally we are once again reminded of the decision of the Supreme Court in The State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. 's case AIR 1994 SC 2778 supra wherein the principle governing the grant of injunction against the invocation of bank guarantee has been laid down in unequivocal terms. The law on the subject in hand is well settled in view of the large number of pronouncements of the Supreme Court. That being so, our function is to apply the law to the facts involved in the case and that is what we have done here. 36. In view of the discussion herein above, we are of the view that the appellant has not established a prima facie case for the grant of temporary injunction against the invocation of bank guarantees by the first respondent. Accordingly, we see no merit in this appeal. However, we make it abundantly clear that the observations and conclusions we made above have the effect and relevance only with regard to the interim issue involved in this appeal and that they are not to be treated as a conclusive and final expression of opinion with regard to any matter in issue in the 
suit. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. In the 
circumstances of the case, no order as to costs.