1. Subject to the Plaintiffs filing originals, clearer copies and documents
 with proper margins, which they may seek to place reliance on, within four
 weeks from today, exemption is granted. 2. Application is allowed and disposed of. I.A. 8521/2022 (seeking leave to file additional documents) 3. Present application has been preferred on behalf of the Plaintiffs
 seeking leave to file additional documents under Order 11 Rule 1(4) CPC . 4. Plaintiffs, if they wish to file additional documents at a later stage,
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act,
 2015 . 5. Application is allowed and disposed of. I.A. 8523/2022 (exemption from service to Defendants) 6. Since there is an urgency in the matter and the matter is being heard
 today, Plaintiffs are exempted from serving advance notice on Defendants
 No. 1 to 3. 7. For the reasons stated in the application, the same is partly allowed
 and disposed of. I.A. 8519/2022 (Directions) & I.A. 8520/2022 (under Section 80 CPC, by
 Plaintiff) 8. Issue notice. 9. Mr. Sharique Hussain, learned counsel accepts notice on behalf of
 Defendant No.5. 10. Issue notice to the remaining Defendants, through all permissible
 modes, returnable on 01.09.2022. CS(COMM) 364/2022 11. Let plaint be registered as a suit. 12. Issue summons. 13. Mr. Sharique Hussain, learned counsel enters appearance on behalf of
 Defendant No.5. 14. Written statement, if any, be filed by Defendant No. 5 within 30 days
 from today along with affidavit of admission/denial of the documents of the
 Plaintiffs. 15. Replication thereto be filed by the Plaintiffs within 15 days of the
 receipt of the written statement along with an affidavit of admission/denial
 of the documents filed by Defendant No. 5. 16. Upon requisite steps being taken by the Plaintiffs, summons be issued
 to the remaining Defendants, through all permissible modes, returnable on Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 2 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 05.08.2022 before the learned Joint Registrar. 17. Summons shall state that written statement be filed by the remaining
 Defendants within 30 days from the date of receipt of summons. Along with
 the written statement, Defendants shall also file an affidavit of
 admission/denial of documents of the Plaintiffs. 18. Replication be filed by the Plaintiffs within 15 days of the receipt of
 the written statement. Along with the replication, an affidavit of
 admission/denial of documents filed by the Defendants shall be filed by the
 Plaintiffs. 19. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the
 same shall be sought and given within the timelines. 20. List before the Court on 01.09.2022. I.A. 8518/2022 (under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC , by Plaintiffs) 21. Present application has been preferred by the Plaintiffs under Order 39
 Rules 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 for
 grant of ex-parte ad-interim injunction. 22. Issue notice. 23. Mr. Sharique Hussain, learned counsel accepts notice on behalf of
 Defendant No.5 and, at the outset, submits, on instructions, that there is only
 one account with respect to which details are being sought by the Plaintiffs
 and the answering Defendant shall comply with whatever directions are
 passed by this Court in this regard. 24. On steps being taken by the Plaintiffs, notice be issued to the
 remaining Defendants, through all permissible modes, returnable on
 01.09.2022. 25. It is averred in the plaint that Plaintiff No. 1, inter alia owns, operates
 and manages the India online marketplace at www.amazon.in wherein lakhs
 of third-party sellers and buyers interact and conduct their transactions.
 Plaintiff No.1's online marketplace provides its users access to a range of
 approximately 170 million products listed/offered for sale by approximately
 3,00,000 registered sellers across a broad range of categories. Plaintiff No.1
 has lakhs of active visitors/users on its marketplace from all over the country
 at any given point of time. 26. It is averred that Plaintiff No.2 is an affiliate of Amazon.com Inc, a
 company based in Seattle, Washington. Plaintiff No.2 is the owner of the
 'AMAZON' trademarks in various classes, as also the owner of copyright in
 the 'AMAZON' logos, which are artistic works as per Section 2(c) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. Plaintiff No.2 has licensed its copyrights and
 trademarks to Plaintiff No.1, for the purpose of promotion, publication and
 merchandising within the territory of India. By virtue of being the licensee
 of such trademarks and copyrights, Plaintiff No.1 is responsible for granting
 licenses for commercial exploitation of Plaintiff No.2's copyrights and
 trademarks in India. 27. It is further averred the trademark 'AMAZON' was adopted in the
 year 1995 and by virtue of its long, continuous and extensive use since its
 adoption in relation to the Plaintiffs' business, has become immensely
 popular and well-known. It is submitted that the success of the Plaintiffs' e-
 commerce business, which is dependent on the popularity and reach of the
 'AMAZON' services and trademarks, is reflective of the immense
 recognition and fame that the 'AMAZON' trademarks enjoy. 28. It is averred that the use of the mark 'AMAZON' in relation to online Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 4 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 sales are synonymous with the Plaintiffs and are therefore inherently
 distinctive. Consumers immediately associate 'AMAZON' with the
 Plaintiffs. Apart from e-commerce, the 'AMAZON' name and trademarks
 are also associated with online streaming services such as 'Amazon Prime
 Video' and 'Amazon Music'. The degree of association of the 'AMAZON'
 trademark or the 'AMAZON' series of marks with the Plaintiffs is so intense
 that any reference to the word 'AMAZON' in the context of e-commerce
 would lead a substantial part of members of the public to recognize,
 acknowledge and associate the same exclusively with the Plaintiffs. The
 trademark 'AMAZON' is also relied upon to distinguish the Plaintiffs'
 services from other Companies and their services. 29. It is pleaded that in October 2018, 'The Guardian' reported that the
 Plaintiffs, together with Apple and Google, is one of the most valuable
 brands in the world. Further, the Plaintiffs have maintained their position by
 being ranked as the top-most valuable brand in the world in the Brand
 Finance Global 500 report in 2019 and 2020. In fact, Amazon has been
 ranked third by Interbrand in global brand rankings. 30. It is averred that the reputation and goodwill of 'AMAZON'
 trademarks is not restricted to the online marketplace but spills over into
 online streaming services, cloud storage, artificial intelligence, producers of
 consumer electronics (Kindle e-readers, Echo, Fire tablet etc.), production
 houses, gaming services, publishers, amongst others. 31. It is averred that the Amazon Easy ("AE") program is an assisted
 shopping program introduced by Plaintiff No.1. The 'AE' program is a
 program that allows interested parties to set up an 'Amazon Easy Store' by
 getting in touch with Amazon Easy marketing partners. Store owners Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 5 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 through AE Store provide assistance to a customer to browse selections,
 identify and select a product that they like and buy products on
 www.amazon.in marketplace. Some of the products available on Amazon.in
 are displayed at these stores for customers to touch and feel the product
 before placing an order on Amazon.in. This allows interested buyers (who
 would have otherwise placed orders on the amazon.in marketplace directly)
 to walk into the 'Amazon Easy Stores' and view/experience the product prior
 to purchasing the same on www.amazon.in. Further, 'Amazon Easy Stores'
 also assist buyers who face difficulties/impediments in navigating through
 the amazon.in marketplace for placing orders. 32. It is averred that the 'AE' program was piloted way back in 2016 and
 has since expanded across States and Union Territories in India. Over the
 last six years, the Plaintiffs have set up a vast network of close to 100,000
 AE Stores across the country. The AE program has been extremely
 successful in bridging the digital divide for India's shoppers in small towns
 and cities. Not only does the AE program benefit potential buyers interested
 in placing orders on the amazon.in marketplace but is also a source of
 income and livelihood for many third-party store owners, who are looking to
 scale up their businesses. 33. It is averred that Plaintiff No.1 is the authorized user and licensee of
 these registered trademarks whose proprietor is Plaintiff No. 2. Plaintiff
 No.1 being a Licensee, has been extensively using 'AMAZON' as a part of
 its brand campaign and for every mode of communication/correspondence.
 The list of Plaintiff's registered, valid and subsisting trademarks is
 mentioned in para 23 of the plaint. 34. It is averred that the Plaintiffs are the bona fide prior adopter,
 continuous and uninterrupted user and registered proprietor of the Amazon
 family of trademarks globally and in India. By virtue of its long and
 continuous use as also its immense popularity with its consumers, the
 Plaintiffs' marks have achieved a status of well-known marks, not only in
 India but globally, as per Sections 2(1)(zg) , 11(6) and 11(7) of the Trade
 Marks Act, 1999. The Plaintiffs enjoy both statutory rights under the Trade
 Marks Act, 1999 and also common law rights arising from the goodwill and
 reputation associated with the Plaintiffs' Marks. Thus, the Plaintiffs' Marks
 are entitled to protection against any kind of misappropriation. Accordingly,
 the unauthorized use of the Plaintiffs' Marks or any other deceptive variant
 thereof, with respect to any goods or services whatsoever, constitutes
 infringement and passing off the Plaintiffs' statutory and common law
 rights. 35. It is averred that apart, from the registered trademark rights, as
 mentioned aforesaid, Plaintiff No.2 is the owner of the copyright in the
 artistic work comprised in the unique get up, lay out with respect to
 "Amazon" logos. The said logos constitutes an original artistic work within
 the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957 and is consequently
 the subject matter of copyright protection under Section 13 of the Copyright
 Act, 1957. 36. It is further averred that Plaintiff No.1 not only operates and manages
 the Plaintiffs' Website/Domain Name (viz., www.amazon.in) but also
 sources all the content (literary and artistic) for the said website/domain
 name. The literary content (including but not limited to Contact Us, FAQs,
 etc.), graphical user interface, arrangement and colour scheme as contained Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 7 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 on Plaintiff No.1's Website/Domain Name i.e., amazon.in qualifies as
 'literary work' per Section 2 (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957. Further, the
 images, pictures and photographs contained on Plaintiff No.1's
 Website/Domain Name qualify as 'artistic works' per Section 2 (c) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 37. It is pleaded that the copyright of Plaintiff No.1 subsists in its
 Website/Domain Name i.e., amazon.in as well as in the overall 'look and
 feel' of the website 'www.amazon.in'. 38. It is averred that Defendants No.1 to 3 are the Rogue Defendants who
 are defrauding innocent members of the public, by inter alia requiring them
 to pay a fee towards registration as an 'Amazon Easy Store'. A brief
 description of the Rogue Defendants is as follows: a) Defendant No.1: Defendant No.1 is the website
 'https://amazonbuys.com', that is unauthorisedly using the Plaintiffs'
 'AMAZON' Trade Marks and logos and offering fake registration
 services for the AE program. Defendant No.1's website has also
 adopted a look and feel that is identical to the Plaintiffs' website
 amazon.in. b) Defendant No.2: Defendant No.1's website also has a Facebook
 page by the name of 'Amazon Franchise' (viz. https://www.facebook.
 com/Amazon-franchise-102180815731934/about), which is evident
 from the contact information on the Facebook page, wherein, the URL
 to Defendant No.1's website is provided as additional contact
 information. Further, a link to Defendant No.2's Instagram page, (viz.
 https://www.instagram.com/pankajObisen/) is also providing the
 contact information tab. c) Defendant No.3: Defendant No.3 is https://estoreamazon.in. While
 Defendant No.3's website is presently inactive, it was ascertained
 upon investigating that Defendant No.3 was also offering Amazon's
 dealership/franchise in relation to the AE program. 39. It is averred that the Rogue Defendants have engaged in a pre-planned
 conspiracy to defraud and dupe innocent members of the public by
 unauthorizedly and illegally using the Plaintiffs' Marks, either on the rogue
 websites and social media pages operated by them or as part of the domain
 name registered by the Rogue Defendants and are blatantly reproducing the
 Plaintiffs' Website Content as well as adopting a look and feel that is
 identical to the Plaintiffs' website 'www.amazon.in'. It is averred that the
 Rogue Defendants have engaged in these infringing and deceptive activities
 to de-fraud innocent members of the public who are interested in registering
 as an 'Amazon Easy Store'. 40. It is averred that the Rogue Defendants reach out to innocent and
 gullible members of the public who are interested in registering as an
 'Amazon Easy Store' and swindle money from them on the pretext that such
 monies are being collected as part of the registration process for setting up
 an 'Amazon Easy Store'. Evidently the Rogue Defendants are attempting to
 lure unsuspecting members under the false pretext of offering to register
 them as an 'Amazon Easy Store', in the name of the Plaintiffs. 41. It is further averred that the entire modus operandi of the Rogue
 Defendants ex-facie demonstrates that their intention is to deliberately
 mislead the general public and scam monies under the false pretext of
 offering registration as an 'Amazon Easy Store'. It is also averred that in
 addition to the above, there is great likelihood that the actual and potential Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 9 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 victims will be further induced into believing that the Rogue Defendants
 have a connection and/or association with the Plaintiffs and/or that the
 aforesaid fraudulent activity is being perpetuated by the Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
 have come across several messages, videos, and tweets from the Plaintiffs'
 customers, as to how the Rogue Defendants are reaching out to them through
 several modes, including but not restricted to emails and post. 42. It is averred that due to the very nature of the Internet, these Rogue
 Websites/Domain Names are accessible all across the world, including, in
 India, i.e., within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, any such use
 by the Rogue Defendants amounts to infringement of the exclusive rights
 owned by the Plaintiffs within the purview of the Trademarks Act, 1999 . A
 chart comparing the Plaintiffs' trademarks with the marks/logos used by the
 Rogue Defendants is as follows: 43. It is averred that the Rogue Defendants have also grossly
 misrepresented to the public that they are connected with/affiliated to the
 Plaintiffs. The degree of misrepresentation is so high that Defendant No.1
 website provides Plaintiff No.1's address as its own. Therefore, in light of
 established precedent, it is evident that the Rogue Defendant are guilty of
 passing off their services as those of the Plaintiffs. 44. It is averred that the brazen and unauthorized identical reproduction of
 'AMAZON' logo and the identical reproduction of the look and feel of the
 Rogue Website of Defendant No.1 to that of the Plaintiff No.1's Website
 Content, amounts to an infringement of the Plaintiffs' Copyright. 45. It is further averred that the activities of the Rogue Defendants will
 undoubtedly result in diminishing the distinctiveness of Plaintiffs' Marks
 from serving their basic purpose, i.e., identifying Plaintiffs' services as
 emanating from the Plaintiffs alone. Thus, the Rogue Defendants'
 abovementioned activities are also resulting in dilution by blurring as well as
 tarnishment. Learned counsel draws the attention of the Court to various
 documents placed on record to substantiate the arguments made. 46. I have heard the learned counsel for the Plaintiffs and also perused the
 documents on record including the home page of the Plaintiffs highlighting
 the copying of Plaintiff No.1's website by the Rogue Defendants; website of
 the Rogue Defendants using the address of the Plaintiffs; screenshot of the e-
 mails received from one of the complainants and the actual money deposited
 by the said complainant; registration form, legal notice issued by the
 complainant to the Plaintiffs, etc. 47. Having heard the learned counsel for the Plaintiffs, this Court is of the
 view that Plaintiffs have made out a prima facie case for grant of ex parte Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 11 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 ad-interim injunction. Balance of convenience lies in favour of the Plaintiffs
 and they are likely to suffer irreparable harm in case the injunction, as
 prayed for, is not granted. Additionally, the activities of the Rogue
 Defendants are leading to a financial loss to the innocent and unsuspecting
 members of the public. 48. Accordingly, Defendants No.1 to 3 and their owners, partners,
 proprietors, officers, servants, employees and all others in capacity of
 principal or agent acting, for and on their behalf or anyone claiming through,
 by or under them are restrained from using the mark "AMAZON",
 "Amazon.in" etc. and/or any deceptive variants thereof, which is identical
 and/or similar to the Plaintiffs' AMAZON marks and/or any marks stated in
 the plaint, in any manner, amounting to infringement of Plaintiffs'
 trademarks, till the next date of hearing. 49. Defendants No.1 to 3, their owners, partners, proprietors, officers,
 servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or agent acting
 for and on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or under them are
 further restrained from using the mark "AMAZON", AMAZON logos
 (which is used by the Plaintiffs exclusively within the Indian territory)
 and/or any deceptive variant thereof, which is identical and/or similar to the
 Plaintiffs' AMAZON marks in respect of domain name or any other manner
 amounting to passing off the Plaintiffs' goods/services, till the next date of
 hearing. 50. Defendants No.1 to 3, their owners, partners, proprietors, officers,
 servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or agent acting
 for and on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or under it, are also
 restrained from using identical and/or similar logos as that of the Plaintiffs' Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 12 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 copyright protected artwork for the Plaintiffs' AMAZON logos, thereby
 infringing the Plaintiffs' copyright in its artistic works and the content as
 captured on the Plaintiffs' Website, till the next date of hearing. 51. Defendants No.1 to 3, their owners, partners, proprietors, officers,
 servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or agent acting
 for and on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or under it, from, in
 any manner are also restrained from using directly or indirectly the
 Plaintiffs' Marks or any other mark identical/deceptively similar to the
 Plaintiffs' Marks, amounting to dilution or tarnishment, of the Plaintiffs'
 trademarks, till the next date of hearing. 52. Defendant No.4, is directed to suspend the fake accounts of Rogue
 Defendants (Facebook page available at
 https://www.facebook.com/Amazon-franchise-102180815731934/?ref=page
 internal and Instagram page of Defendant No.2 available at
 https://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.instagram.com%2F
 pankaj0bisen%3Ffbclid%3DIwAR2B7kg0UCXfCfy1jE_qlwp1lovdxs5o9fp
 8FRrAZZ2UL1UA8G9FEizZyKg&h=AT1taTJrEl14iUuysMa0llJuqo41Pqg
 jlHRN9fiR4SF0NJBMF_Hgf1PkPzByRZ3nQ0I2aJkE8h8wyADwvwWaQy
 yNL1tf1rkv4BfVTw06DsB2-cxpCEtCbl-RFbFXevxoru55qQ) and provide
 IP addresses/other details of the users of the fake profiles/accounts/pages of
 the said Defendants' platform, as identified by the Plaintiffs now and/or at
 any subsequent time. 53. Defendants No.5 and 6, their owners, partners, proprietors, officers,
 servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or agent acting
 for and on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or under them are
 directed to freeze the bank accounts with Account Nos. 50100452149604 Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 13 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 and 75662010010628 and provide the statement of accounts pertaining to
 the said account numbers as well as furnish on affidavit, the identity of the
 bank account holder and KYC details. 54. Defendant No. 7, its owners, partners, proprietors, officers, managers,
 servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or agent acting
 for and on its behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or under them are
 directed to furnish on Affidavit, the KYC details of the beneficiary of the
 PayTM account holder in respect of transactions bearing reference numbers
 "203930943561", "203314433268", "203221153244" and "203227090489",
 conducted using the said PayTM account. 55. Defendant No. 8, their directors, partners, proprietors, officers,
 affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or
 agent acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or
 under it are directed to disclose details of the Registrant of Defendant No.1's
 and Defendant No. 3's website https://amazonbuys.in. and
 https://estoreamazon.in, and block access to the said websites. 56. Defendants No. 9, 10, 12, 15 and 17, their directors, partners,
 proprietors, officers, affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in
 capacity of principal or agent acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone
 claiming through, by or under it are directed to disclose details of
 Defendants No. 1 to 3's phone numbers, details of which have been
 furnished in a tabular form in paragraph 67 of the Plaint. 57. Defendants No. 9-17, their directors, partners, proprietors, officers,
 affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or
 agent acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or
 under it are directed to block access to the website identified as websites of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 14 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54 the Rogue Defendants in the plaint. 58. Defendants No. 18 (DoT) and 19 (MEITY) are directed to issue
 notifications calling upon the various internet and telecom service providers
 registered under it to block access to the various websites/Rogue Defendants
 identified by the Plaintiffs in the plaint. 59. Plaintiffs shall comply with the provisions of Order 39 Rule 3 CPC within ten days from today. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MAY 26, 2022/rk Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 364/2022 Page 15 of 15 Signing Date:28.05.2022 21:45:54