------ For the Petitioner(s) : Mr. Mukesh Kr. Mehta, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Vineet Kr. Vashistha, AddI. P.P.
 ......... 05/ 25.06.2025: Heard, learned counsel for the petitioner and learned counsel for
 the State. 2. This anticipatory bail application under Sections 482 and 484 of
 the Bhartiya Nagrik Surksha Sanhita, 2023, has been preferred by the
 petitioner apprehending his arrest for offences under Sections 406 , 419 , 420 , 506 , 34 of IPC. 3. The case is based on a complaint by Subham Kumar. He said his
 elder brother Sourav Kumar met Sahil Sekh @ Liza during work. Sahil Sekh
 claimed to have worked for the Municipal Corporation and promised to get
 Sourav Kumar a job there. Based on this promise, the informant transferred
 a total of ₹1,03,700/- to different accounts through Phone Pe, Google Pay,
 Paytm and in cash. The money was sent in accounts of different people.
 After paying, the informant worked there as a laborer, hoping to get the
 promised job of a Tax Collector, but he never received any salary. When he
 asked his money back, Sahil Sekh threatened him and blamed Rashid and
 Aman Mishra for the fraud. The informant said the payments started from
 25.04.2022 after meeting Sahil Sekh and Rajia Rashid. 4. The offence punishable is for maximum period of 7 years or less. 5. At the very outset the learned A.P.P. after taking instruction
 from the Investigating Officer submits that no proper notice under Section
 35(3) of BNSS has been issued to the petitioner. He submits that I.O. has
 stated that proper notice will be issued to the petitioner and if the petitioner
 appears and cooperates there is no necessity to arrest the petitioner. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner will
 cooperate with the investigation and there is no reason as to why the
 petitioner will evade investigation. 7. Considering the submission and fact that the offence alleged are
 punishable for period of 7 years or less and there is no compliance of notice
 under Section 35(3) of BNSS, I feel that this is a fit case for grant of
 anticipatory bail of the petitioner. 8. Accordingly, this Anticipatory Bail Application stands allowed.
 The petitioner, above named, is directed to surrender before the learned
 court below within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order
 and on the event of his surrender or arrest, he shall be released on bail on
 furnishing bail bonds of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) with two
 sureties of the like amount each, to the satisfaction of C.J.M., Dhanbad, in
 connection with Dhanbad P.S. Case No.279 of 2022, subject to the condition
 that one of the bailers should be a close relative of the petitioner and other
 should be a resident of State of Jharkhand, having sufficient landed property
 in his name or in the name of his ancestors in which he is having share and
 to that effect, he has to file an affidavit before the Trial Court indicating his
 share in the property. 9. Petitioner is directed to appear before the concerned Court and file his
 bail bonds to satisfaction of the Court subject to the condition that he will
 appear before the I.O. once in every 15 days and will cooperate with the
 investigation, failing which, appropriate steps will be taken against the
 petitioner. (ANANDA SEN, J.)
R.S./