1. While COVID-19 was wreaking havoc in the country and
causing unimaginable misery [viz. the working class losing jobs and
thereby their livelihood, innumerable innocent lives being lost including
those of migrant labours not only due to its direct but also indirect
effects, the health-care system in all the States across the country facing
extreme stress, justice seekers finding the justice delivery system almost
inaccessible, etc.] and thus creating an atmosphere of severe tension
and despair in the country, the unnatural death of a relatively young
film actor (hereafter "the actor", for short) in Mumbai on June 14, 2020
became the cynosure of the electronic media. The manifold problem,
hardship and inconvenience brought about by the pandemic all over the
country notwithstanding, various TV channels initiated intense
discussion during prime time on the probable cause of death of the
actor. Some of such channels, resorting to "investigative journalism" as
they call it, sought to spread the message among its viewers that
Mumbai Police has been passing off a homicidal death as a suicidal
death and that a close acquaintance of the actor, who herself is an
actress (hereafter "the actress", for short), had orchestrated his death.
What followed such reportage is noteworthy. The actor's father had
lodged an FIR at Patna, Bihar naming the actress as an accused for his
son's homicidal death. Incidentally, the actor hailed from Bihar prior to
making a career in films and settling down in Mumbai. To conduct
investigation into such FIR, police personnel from Bihar landed in
Mumbai. Citing the pandemic, such personnel were promptly
quarantined. It is not necessary for the present purpose to ascertain
who were behind such move and what the motive was. Suffice it to note,
the actress applied before the Supreme Court for transfer of a First
Information Report at a police station in Patna and all consequential
proceedings from the jurisdictional court at Patna to the jurisdictional
court at Mumbai, under section 406 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
(hereafter 'the Cr.P.C ' for short) read with Order XXXIX of the Supreme 14 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Court Rules. Upon hearing the parties, the Supreme Court passed an
order dated August 19, 2020 entrusting the Central Bureau of
Investigation (hereafter "the CBI", for short) with investigation into the
complaint of the actor's father. In compliance with such order, the CBI
took over investigation. In due course of time, the Enforcement
Directorate (hereafter "the ED", for short) and the Narcotics Control
Bureau (hereafter "the NCB", for short) too joined the fray by launching
separate prosecution suspecting offences under the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 and the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic
Substances Act, 1985 (hereafter "the NDPS Act ", for short), respectively.
After the intervention of the Supreme Court, it had been the claim of
some of the TV channels that Mumbai Police's vicious attempt to
suppress the homicidal death of the actor, which had been unearthed by
"investigative journalism", stands validated by reason of the order of the
Supreme Court. It had also been the claim of one of the TV channels
that because of its persistent vigorous demands for divesting Mumbai
Police of investigative powers in the case that truth has triumphed with
the CBI being entrusted with the investigation by the Supreme Court.
Investigation by the CBI, the ED and the NCB are still in progress. 2. Apart from the above, a couple of TV channels aired several
programmes raising questions as to the manner of investigation by
Mumbai Police and also as to why the actress had not been arrested in
view of materials that such channels had gathered through
"investigative journalism". One of them even went to the extent of
obtaining opinion from the viewers on whether the actress should be
arrested. One other channel flashed that the actor had been murdered.
The persistent efforts of the channels for arrest of the actress did bear
fruit in that although the CBI did not find reason to arrest her, she came
to be arrested by the NCB. After a monthlong incarceration, this Court
by its order dated October 7, 2020 granted the actress bail upon
recording a finding that materials collected thus far by the NCB prima 15 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

facie did not suggest that she had committed any offence under the NDPS Act . 3. Unfortunately, some of the TV channels in their programmes
displayed headlines which, in effect, taunt the actor for committing
suicide and seek to question as to whether he was into consumption of
drugs. The insensitivity of such TV channels is writ large in that the
headlines/questions were displayed/posed knowing fully well that the
same would never be rebutted by the individual to whom it is directed. 4. Since the unnatural death of the actor on June 14, 2020, 5
(five) writ petitions, all in the Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction, came
to be presented before this Court between June 25, 2020 and September
10, 2020 seeking multifarious relief. All but one of the writ petitions
raise common issues in regard to the role of the electronic media in
reporting matters concerning investigation into the unnatural death of
the actor, thus amounting to a 'media trial'. The petitioners urge that
the electronic media in derogation of their legitimate media rights are
broadcasting irresponsible and unethical news programmes of a nature
amounting to slander as also amounting to a direct interference in the
course of investigation, as undertaken by the investigating agencies, of a
highly prejudicial nature. The petitioners contend that some of the
television channels have televised interviews with material witnesses
and in fact indulged in cross-examining these witnesses. They have
taken upon themselves the role of the investigating agencies,
prosecutors and adjudicators in pronouncing persons guilty of
committing an offence, even before the lawful investigation is completed
by the investigating agencies. It is claimed that the news channels have
also resorted to a reckless reporting against the State agencies on whom
the powers of investigation are conferred by law. It is the
petitioners'contention that such interference by the electronic media in
the course of lawful investigation of any alleged crime defies all cannons 16 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

of legal legitimacy. It is with such grievances the petitioners have
approached this Court. In brief, the reliefs claimed, inter-alia, are for
issuance of necessary directions to the media channels for temporary
postponement of news reporting in any form of a media trial or parallel
investigation into the 'FIR' regarding the unnatural death of the actor
that the CBI has been investigating. Prayer is also made for a writ of
mandamus for issuance of directions/guidelines not to allow electronic,
radio, internet or any other form of media from publishing any false,
derogatory and scandalous news reports which may either jeopardize
the reputation of the police and affect administration of justice, and to
have a balanced ethical and objective reporting. There is also a prayer in
one of the writ petitions that the scope and ambit of section 3(2) of the
Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (hereafter the CoC Act, for short) be
interpreted to include an FIR as the starting point of pending
proceedings before the Court for the purpose of invoking the CoC Act in
cases where publication obstructs administration of justice. Having
noticed the broad contours of the proceedings before us, we now proceed
to delve deep into the individual writ petitions. (Asim Suhas Sarode Vs. News Broadcasting Association (NBA)
 & Ors.) (a). This Public Interest Litigation, the first in the series, was
presented before this Court on June 25, 2020 by Shri. Asim Suhas
Sarode as petitioner, who is a practicing Advocate. He claims that he
has been working on various human rights and environmental issues.
The concern of the petitioner is that immediately on the unnatural death
of the actor on June 14, 2020, the TV channels started reporting the
news of his suicide. He says that the telecasts on the suicide, in the
manner aired, left him disturbed, as the news coverage contained 17 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

photographs of the dead body of the actor which was least that could be
expected. He says that such an approach on the part of the media
shows insensitive attitude towards mental health. He has stated that
various FIRs were lodged including those by the Maharashtra Cyber Cell
Police department, by issuing warning on Twitter to restrain from
posting images of a dead body. It is his case that the media needs to
practice sensitivity in such reporting, and the media professionals
should recognize the importance in conveying nuanced meanings and
the language should not sensationalize suicide. It is his case that there
are media guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (hereafter
"the WHO", for short) and the International Association for Suicide
Prevention (IASP) on how news organizations should report on suicides,
which need to be followed. His case is that there is a necessity to
understand depression and how it affects people. The media reports
cannot be more depressing because the media is required to consider
the impact of such news on people, who are living with mental illness.
No one chooses to be depressed or stay depressed. Their brain does not
allow them to come out of it. The Press Council of India (hereafter "the
PCI", for short) has adopted the guidelines of the WHO; however, they
are not followed by the media in India. As per the WHO guidelines
adopted by the PCI, according to the petitioner, following are required to
be avoided:- (b). The petitioner contends that implementation of the
objectives of the Mental Health Act, 2017 is lacking in totality, when it
recognizes suicide as a mental illness. Almost all media houses used the
word "committed suicide", when it should be "died by suicide". On such
premise, the petitioner has prayed for the following reliefs:- Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

II. PIL (ST) NO. 92252 of 2020 Shri Nilesh Navlakha & Ors vs UOI
 & Ors (a) This Public Interest Litigation dated August 26, 2020 has
been filed by Shri Nilesh Navlakha and two others. Shri Nilesh Navlakha
has described himself to be a reputed filmmaker, who has produced
nine films on social issues, and is a recipient of national awards for his
three films. He is also a social activist involved in various social causes.
Petitioner No. 2 - Shri. Mahibub Shaikh, is the editor of a regional
newspaper 'Bandhuprem', published from Solapur. Petitioner No. 3 -
Shri. Subash Cander Chaba has retired from the Punjab State
Electricity Board and is also actively involved on social issues. The
petitioners array the Union of India (hereafter 'the UOI', for short)
through its Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the
PCI, the News Broadcasters Association, the CBI, the State of
Maharashtra and several media channels as the respondents. The
petitioners pray that directions be issued to the electronic media
channels as also to the print media for temporary postponement of news
reporting in any manner, which would tantamount to a 'media trial' or
'parallel investigation' of a nature directly or indirectly hampering the
investigation in pursuance of the FIR registered by the CBI, relating to
the unnatural death of the actor. There is a prayer for further direction
to the respondents to ensure that the tenets of the "Programme Code" as
prescribed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (hereafter the "CTVN Act", for short) and Cable Television Networks
Rules, 1994 (hereafter the "CTVN Rules", for short) are followed in letter
and spirit. The Petitioners also pray that the respondents keep strict
vigil on the media channels in sensitive cases and adhere to the CTVN
Act and the CTVN Rules and take stringent actions against the media
channels who violate the "Programme Code" and the journalistic ethics. (b) The petitioners contend that they do not intend to impinge
or curtail the freedom of press of the media; however, in the interest of
administration of justice, they are seeking such directions to the 20 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

respondents to toe the 'Lakshman Rekha' and ensure that no media trial
is undertaken, which has an impact of causing a prejudice to an
independent investigation being undertaken by the CBI. The petitioners
say that the media trial in the death of actor is posing real and
substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice and
the criminal justice system, and the fairness of a trial. They contend
that a neutralizing device (balancing act) would not be an unreasonable
restriction on the media rights and on the contrary would fall within the
proper constitutional framework. The contention is that the journalists
are expected to be fair and neutral to all sides, and to provide diverse
points of view. They are against propaganda news, their concern is that
'pure' news reporting has more or less disappeared and personal
ideology of the editor or a proprietor of the news channel often shapes
the news which has led the media to lose its credibility amongst people. (c) The prayers as made by the petitioners read as under :- "a. Issue writ of mandamus or any other
 writ/order of direction to the respondents to issue
 necessary instructions to the Media channels both
 print and electronic for temporary postponement of
 news reporting by way of telecasting, publishing,
 republishing reports/articles and/or carrying out
 discussions/debates of any kind by the Media both
 Electronic and Print tantamount to 'Media Trial' or
 'Parallel Investigation' or examining or cross
 examining the witnesses or the vital evidence, which
 has the effect of directly or indirectly interfering with
 the investigation process without preventing from
 publishing information which does not in any way
 interfere with the investigation or seek to sully the
 character and reputation of the
 victim/accused/witnesses or any other person or
 prejudice the defence in any manner in respect of FIR
 No.RC242020S0001 registered by the Central
 Bureau of Investigation on 06.08.2020 relating to the
 unfortunate demise of Actor Sushant Singh Rajput;
 and 21 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 b. Direct the respondents to ensure that the tenets of
 the programme code are followed in both letter and
 spirit, as laid down in Cable Television Networks
 (Regulation) Act, 1995 and 1994 Rules; and

 c. Direct the respondent nos. 1 and 3 to keep strict
 vigil on the media channels in sensitive cases and
 issue necessary guidelines/instructions directing the
 Media to adhere with the Cable Television Networks
 (Regulation) Act, 1995 and 1994 Rules and take
 necessary stringent actions against such media
 channels who conduct the 'Media Trial' in violation of
 the programmer code and journalistic ethics;" etc., which are highly derogatory, irresponsible and totally incorrect.
According to the petitioners, after the decision of the Supreme Court in
Transfer Petition (Criminal) No.225 of 2020, such reportage amounts to
a total misreporting of the facts by the media. The petitioners contend
that based on this false reporting, the media has gone to the extent of
demanding resignation of the Commissioner, Mumbai Police quite
oblivious of the observations made by the Supreme Court. This was
nothing but the TV channels trying to influence the course of
investigation being undertaken by the central agencies. It is contended
that such media trial, which has resulted into parallel investigation
being undertaken by private individuals, amounts to gross violation of
the rights of the accused and the witnesses guaranteed under Articles
14 and 21 of the Constitution, as right to a fair trial including a fair
investigation is a Fundamental Right of an accused in the Indian
criminal justice system. (b). The petitioners say that media in our country enjoys
extreme privileges; however, the same cannot be allowed to undermine
the authoritative investigation being undertaken by the authorities.
They contend that the right to freedom of speech and expression
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) is not absolute and as Article 19(2) ordains, can be restricted by law, inter-alia, in the interests of public
order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court,
defamation or incitement to an offence. They say that oblivious to this
clear position in law, one of the prominent media house/ t.v. channel
has claimed that - "...... It is in the pursuit of the truth the network has
carried out deep investigations, confronted key witnesses, accessed
crucial primary testimonies, stung multiple key individuals and exposed
the botch-ups of the Mumbai police and will continue to do so until the
truth emerges, in its entirety." It is submitted that such an action on the
part of the electronic media is brazenly illegal, apart from being grossly 23 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

unfair and an irresponsible conduct on the part of the media house. (c). Following are the prayers as made by the petitioners:- "a) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos.1
 to 4 thereby issuing instructions/guidelines to
 be followed by the Media Houses be it print,
 electronic, radio, internet or television or any
 other form of Media, to refrain from publishing
 and circulating any false, derogatory and
 scandalous comments, social media posts, news
 stories etc. which may jeopardize the reputation
 of the Police and may cause the public to lose
 faith in the system and in Police administration
 or hinder the cause of administration of justice; reporting of crimes and criminal investigations
 are carried out in a balanced, ethical, unbiased
 and objective manner and not to turn such
 reporting into media trial and a vilification
 campaign against the police, investigators and
 others and direct Respondent-Union of India to
 ensure the compliance of the Codes of
 respondent nos. 2, 3 and 4; c) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos. 1
 to 4 issuing instructions/guidelines to the
 Media Houses be it print, electronic, radio,
 internet or television or any other form of Media,
 to refrain from conducting a "Media Trial" of any
 case which may cause serious prejudice inter
 alia to the proper functioning of the
 Investigating agency; and d) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos. 1
 to 4 issuing instructions/guidelines to the
 Media Houses be it print, electronic, radio,
 internet or television or any other form of Media,
 to indulge in ethical reporting and responsible
 journalism rather than 'sensationalism' so as to
 increase its Total Rating Point ("TRP"); and e) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos. 1 24 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 to 4 and the necessary authorities for ensuring
 that the Media Houses do not violate the crime
 reporting ethics and to take appropriate actions
 if and when the Media indulges in acts that may
 be contrary to and violate the prayers made
 hereinabove; and f) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos. 1
 to 4 for laying down guidelines regarding the
 mode and manner of reporting/covering any
 pending investigation/cases including judicial
 proceedings particularly applicable in the case
 of death of Sushant Singh Rajput; and g) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other
 writ, order or direction upon respondent nos. 1
 to 4 and its members/staff/officers and
 employees, to refrain from publishing and/or
 broadcasting any derogatory comments, social
 media posts, news stories etc. aimed at
 undermining the reputation of the Mumbai
 Police and interfering with the administration of
 justice, and further restrain the Media Trial in
 connection with the death of Sushant Singh
 Rajput, be it print, electronic, radio, internet or
 television or any other form of Media." IV. Public Interest Litigation (L) No. 3145 of 2020 (In Pursuit of Justice vs. Union of India ) (a). The petitioner, a society, has filed this writ petition dated
September 3, 2020 through its authorized signatory advocate Ms. Shirin
Merchant. The respondents in this petition are the UOI, the PCI and the
Law Commission of India. This petition raising similar concerns as in
the earlier two petitions, however, raises an additional issue on the
interpretation of the provisions of section 3(2) of the CoC Act. It is
contended that this provision is required to be read down to mean that
the offending publication be held to be contemptuous as soon as an FIR
is registered, for the reason that such publication is prejudicial to the
procedure and the imminent criminal proceedings contemplated under
the process of law which would ultimately culminate into a fair trial. (b). The petitioners say that the filing of this Public Interest 25 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Petition was triggered because of the continuous reporting on the death
of the actor by the electronic media. According to the petitioner, from the
nature of the reportage, the sanctity of the State police machinery has
been demolished and the public opinion was sought to be manipulated,
against the 'State law and order' machinery. This, according to the
petitioner, has led to an inevitable ramification that the faith and
confidence of the citizens in the police machinery has been seriously
impaired by reckless media trial undertaken by the media channels. The
petitioner says that this has led to a general belief that the State
machinery cannot be trusted and has completely shattered the credence
and reliability the citizens are entitled to have in the local police
machinery. (c). It is contended that the constitutional protection under Article 21 protecting the right of an accused of a fair trial is in the
nature of a valid restriction operating on the right of free speech under Article 19(1)(a) by the very force of the former being a constitutional
provision. According to the petitioner, the media has publicly tried and
convicted the alleged accused and has even proceeded to attribute a
number of acts to the accused person(s) portraying the accused as a
murderer, abettor, a drug addict, etc. The media has in fact declared
that number of persons are involved in the suicide of the actor, alleging
it to be murder case, inter-alia, on the basis of - (i) statement to the CBI
of a potential witness (a house manager) has been put up in the media; (ii) Whatsapp chats between potential witnesses have been broadcast; (iii) death, rape, etc. threats to the alleged accused; (iv) reaction of
investigation agency to the statements given by certain accused has
been published in the media; (v) statements of hospital staff members
reported/published in the media; (vi) the forensic specialist who carried
out the autopsy on the body of the actor has also been interviewed on a
national TV channel; (vii) statements of investigating officers, and
purported statements of certain witnesses have also been commented
upon; (viii) IPS officers of Bihar Police have also appeared in TV debates 26 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

on the said issue; (ix) private chats of the alleged accused were also
published in media; and (x) abusing and tarnishing the reputation as
well as calling into question, the character of the accused/suspect for
not answering the questions posed by the media. (d). It is contended that such acts on the part of the electronic
media would amount to a relentless intrusion in the private lives of the
victims and the witnesses. In addition to this, the reputation of the State
police was tarnished portraying it to be incompetent and complacent in
screening the concerned accused. Also, the potential witnesses have
been exposed by identifying them, interviewing them and by bringing
them in the public eye, asking them to make statements on TV channels
and terming their statements as confessions. This crosses all
boundaries of legitimacy, in as much as, according to the petitioner
these potential witnesses eventually when required by law to depose on
oath before a Court of competent jurisdiction, would be faced with a
dilemma of sticking to their unverified public statements given to a
reporter. This has brought about a situation that the witnesses would be
in a peril of coming under pressure from both the accused as well as the
investigating agency. (e). Referring to the 180th report of the Law Commission of
India, the petitioner has contended that the said report has extensively
dealt with the doctrine of media trial, and thereafter the Law
Commission in its comprehensive 200th report on the subject, has also
dealt with the CoC Act to recommend that such media trial would also
postulate a criminal contempt when such acts of any media interfere or
obstruct the administration of justice in any manner. (f). The petitioners have referred to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Saibal Kumar Gupta vs. B.K. Sen , reported in AIR 1961 SC
633, in the context of parallel investigation at the hands of the media to
contend that the Supreme Court held that "it would be mischievous for
a newspaper to systematically conduct an independent investigation into
a crime and to publish the results of such investigation, and that such 27 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

trial by media must be prevented as it tends to adversely interfere with
the course of justice". (g). It is further contended that the issue of trial by media or
prejudice to a fair trial on account of pre-trial publication is directly
linked with Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution as well as section 3 of the
CoC Act. The issue is about balancing the freedom of speech and
expression on the one hand and undue interference with administration
of justice within the framework of the CoC Act as permitted by Article
19(2) on the other. (h). The petitioners next contend that the provisions of section 3
of the CoC Act restricts the freedom of speech and expression including
the freedom of the media to report, if any such publication obstructs the
course of justice in connection with any civil or criminal proceeding
which is pending. According to the petitioner, section 3(1) of the CoC Act
affords protection, to the person, if the person who publishes has no
reasonable grounds to believe that a proceeding is pending before a
court of law. The petitioner says that as per the present law, the
starting point of pendency of criminal proceedings is from the stage
when the court actually gets involved on submission of a final report by
the investigating agency under section 173 of the Cr.P.C. thereby
meaning that any publication prior to filing of such report is not
contempt. (i). The contention is that looking at the current scenario,
wherein the media has indulged in holding a trial and has attempted to
convict suspects/accused and in the process has brought in the public
domain statements of witnesses, confessions, details of forensic reports,
and all such things which would ordinarily be a matter forming part of
the investigation report to be dealt with by the Court while framing
charges, such reportage have seriously violated the constitutional rights
of an accused to a fair trial. Reference has been made to the comment of
the Law Commission that while the law has given immunity under
section 3(2) of the CoC Act, if the publication is one which admittedly 28 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

obstructs the course of justice and only because such a publication has
been made before the filing of charge-sheet, whether such procedure is
just, fair, and equitable? It is, thus, contended that if such offending
publication is made in respect of a person against whom an FIR is filed
but a challan has not yet been filed, nor has such a person been
arrested, the procedure as one strictly provided by section 3(2) of the
CoC Act may not be a procedure which is fair, just and equitable and in
fact would be arbitrary and may not stand the test of Article 14. According to the petitioner, it has become necessary and in the interest
of justice, that the said provision in the CoC Act is required be read
down to deem that such publication be held to be contemptuous as soon
as the FIR is registered against a person, since the persistent salacious
publication may be prejudicial to the procedure and proceedings
contemplated under the 'due process of law' terminating into a fair trial. (j). In support of the contention, the petitioner has referred to
the decision of the Supreme Court in A.K. Gopalan vs. Noordeen ,
reported in (1969) 2 SCC 734, to contend that the Supreme Court has
held that "a contempt of court may be committed by a person when he
knows or has good reason to believe that criminal proceedings are
imminent". According to the petitioner, the test is whether the
circumstances in which the alleged contemnor makes a statement are
such that a person of ordinary prudence would be of opinion that
criminal proceedings would soon be launched. (k). The petitioner has next referred to the decision of Supreme
Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy vs. Union of India , reported in
(2018) 1 SCC 809, to contend that it is law declared that the right to
privacy is an intrinsic part of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 and forms part of the freedoms guaranteed under Part III of
the Constitution. It is, thus, contended that the relentless intrusion of
the media in the personal and private life of the accused/suspect and
the family and friends of such person amounts to violation of such
liberty. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (l). The petitioner also refers to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Subramaniam Swamy vs. Union of India , reported in (2015)
13 SCC 353, to contend that the Supreme Court has analyzed the
meaning of the terms "defamation" and "reputation" and observed that
the concept of reputation is included in the protection of 'dignity' which
is a part of the constitutional protection provided under the right to life.
The Court has ratified that restrictions on such freedom do not have an
undue chilling effect on the right and hence, the right to freedom of
speech does not override the right to reputation. (m). On the above contentions, the following prayers are made by
the petitioner: V. Criminal Public Interest Litigation no.2339 of 2020
 ( Preranaa Virendrakumar Arora vs. Press Council of India ) (a). The prayer in this writ petition dated September 10, 2020 is
somewhat similar to the prayers as made in the public interest litigation
filed by the petitioner "In Pursuit of Justice". The petitioner has prayed
for a direction to be issued to define and narrow the scope of the term
'reasonable belief' appearing in section 3(1) of the CoC Act. A further
relief is prayed, namely, that the term 'reasonable belief' appearing in 30 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

section 3(1) of the CoC Act be ordered to be deleted being contrary to the
object of such enactment, and that the said term be deleted being vague,
ambiguous, counter-productive and violative of Article 21 of
Constitution of India. There is a prayer that a writ be issued so that the
terms 'arrest' and 'investigation' are included in the term 'pending'
appearing in section 3 of the CoC Act, as also to include 'commencement
of inquiry or investigation' and 'arrest of an individual' under the
meaning of the term 'pending' appearing in such section of the said
enactment. There is a further prayer that a direction be issued to
constitute a Committee of 3 members headed by a retired High Court
Judge to consider and file a report as to whether any law and/or statute
can be brought to regulate the publication and/or reporting by the
media in newsprint, online platforms or any other platform. Factual matrix:- The petitioners say that from June 14, 2020 several prominent media
channels have been literally conducting 'media trials' and 'parallel
investigation' by conducting and broadcasting debates, rendering
opinions, exposing the material witnesses, examining and cross-
examining the witnesses, chasing the officials of CBI who were
investigating the case. The petitioners say that all such telecast and
broadcast are available in public domain. It is said that the prominent
news channels in their attempt to sensationalize the issues, have gone
as far as displaying the CDR records which is a vital piece of evidence,
thereby resulting in the several threat calls and messages sent to the
alleged accused. As per the media reports in public domain, being the
day when the accused in the FIR was summoned by the Enforcement
Directorate, the news channel uploaded a video in which the actor's
contact details were clearly shown. The petitioners say that to scandalize
and sensationalize the death of the actor, irresponsible reporting to
implicate one of the prominent ministers of the State of Maharashtra
and have been making derogatory, false and distasteful remarks against
several ministers. Several news channels have proceeded to convict the 34 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

accused named in the FIR and also were making insinuations against
high-ranking officers of Mumbai Police and the Ministers of the State
without even completion of the investigation in the matter. The news
anchors and reporters were examining and cross-examining all the
proposed witnesses exposing the probable evidence to the public which
could be examined only by the investigating agency or by the competent
courts during the course of trial. 12. On August 28, 2020, the PCI also issued a tweet through its
official twitter account that the coverage of the alleged suicide of the
actor by many media outlets are in contravention of the norms of
journalistic conduct framed by it and it issued an advisory reminding
the media to follow the norms of journalistic conduct. 13. The petitioners say that media trials during the pre-trial
investigation stage by reportage and exposure of key witnesses and
evidence, clearly undermines the concept of free and fair trial. The
freedom of the media, especially of the TV channels, cannot be allowed
to super stretch to a point where, by outpouring reprobate information,
begins to clog and cloud the pellucid comprehension of 'facts/news' in
the people's minds and impinges upon free and fair investigation. The
actions of the media in sensationalizing the actor's death is not only
adversely impacting the ongoing investigation by the CBI, but was also
in the teeth of the 'doctrine of postponement' propounded by a
Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in the case of Sahara India
Real Estate Corporation Ltd vs SEBI, reported in (2012) 10 SCC 603. 14. The petitioners say that the fundamental or moot question
of law which arises for consideration of this Court would be as to
whether the media under the garb of reporting news, can serve their
own opinions as facts/news. The petitioners contend that the basic 35 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

function of media is to report news and facts as they come and the
formulation of a new opinion on the same is within the complete and
exclusive domain of the people. However, it is observed that media works
to create or induce opinions by narrating and reporting opinionated and
tailored facts as news, which is beyond the scope, power and privilege
accorded to the proverbial fourth pillar and a blatant abuse and misuse
thereof. 15. The petitioners contend that such media coverage not only
flouts and violates the mandate of the CTVN Act and the Rules
thereunder, but it is also in contravention of the Code of Ethics and
Broadcasting Standards Regulations. The further contention is that
majority of the media of this country is Corporate Media, not owned
and/or controlled by the State/Government but by business houses
which thrive upon and function upon the TRP-driven and ratings and
viewership oriented "business models" to generate profits for themselves
by attracting advertisements, sponsorships, investments, etc. 16. The petitioners assert that media is plagued with the
affliction of disproportionate reporting, which may be seen from the
undue coverage given to inconsequential and mindless matters,
unrelated to the greater good of the people of the country, as opposed to
issues of national and international importance which the people are
grappling with such as the COVID 19 crisis, mass joblessness, economic
downfall, starvation, medical and healthcare structural problems,
farmers issues, domestic violence, etc. These are the issues which
hardly ever get any substantial significant or considerable coverage in
comparison to the TV time given to the exaggerated and sensationalised
non-issues. 17. The petitioners contend that it is definitely not in the
domain of the media to prove someone guilty, and there is no question of 36 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

guilt or innocence till the investigation and trial by competent
authorities is complete; however, it is apparent that the media is
hellbent upon painting the accused persons named in the FIR as guilty
and culpable, through relentless repetitive and reiterative rhetoric and
emphasis. In this context, the petitioners refer to the decision of the
Supreme Court in Sidhartha Vashist @ Manu Sharma vs. State (NCT
of Delhi ), reported in (2010) 6 SCC 1, wherein the Supreme Court has
commented on the danger of serious risk of prejudice if the media
exercises an unrestricted and unregulated freedom, and that trial by
media does not hamper fair investigation by the investigating agency
and more importantly does not prejudice the right of defence of the
accused in any manner whatsoever. The Supreme Court also observed
that it will amount to a travesty of justice if either of this causes
impediments in the accepted judicious and fair investigation and trial. It
is held that the freedom of speech protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution has to be carefully and cautiously used, so as to avoid
interference with the administration of justice and leading to
undesirable results in matters sub judice before the courts. 18. The petitioners refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in R.K. Anand vs. Delhi High Court, reported in (2009) 8 SCC 106, where
the Supreme Court observed that it would be a sad day for the court to
employ the media for setting its own house in order and the media too
would not relish the role of being the snoopers of the court. It was
observed that the media should perform the acts of journalism and not
as a special agency for the court. It was also observed that the impact of
television and newspaper coverage on a person's reputation by creating
a widespread perception of guilt regardless of any verdict in a court of
law is most unfair. 19. The petitioners referring to the decision of the Supreme
Court in M.P Lohia vs. State of West Bengal , reported in (2005) 2 SCC
686, contend that the Court reiterated its earlier view that freedom of 37 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

speech and expression sometimes may amount to interference with the
administration of justice, and that articles appearing in the media that
could be prejudicial should not be permitted. 20. The following common contentions are raised by the
petitioners against the electronic media:- 21 and 39A of the Constitution of India. (xiii) Even internationally, a free and fair trial is an
 important concept which is chartered under the UN
 Basic Principles on the Independence of the
 Judiciary under Article 6 which states that the
 judiciary is entitled to and required "to ensure that
 judicial proceedings were conducted fairly and the
 right of the parties are respected." A reference is
 made to Article 14(1) of the International Covenant
 on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) which provides
 that "All persons shall be equal before the courts and
 tribunals."It also provides that in the determination 43 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 of any criminal charge against him or of his rights
 and obligations in a suit at law, everyone shall be
 entitled to a fair and public hearing by a competent,
 independent and impartial tribunal established by
 law. The press and the public may be excluded from
 all or part of a trial for reasons of morals, public
 order or national security in a democratic society, or
 when the interests of the private lives of the parties
 so require, or to the extent necessary in the opinion
 of the Court in special circumstances where
 publicity would prejudice the interests of justice. (xiv) Further, even the European Convention on Human
 Rights (ECHR) under Article 10 speaks about right
 to freedom of expression including freedom to hold
 opinions and to receive and impart information and
 ideas but restricts the same by providing that the
 exercise of these freedoms, since it carries with it
 duties and responsibilities, may be subject to such
 formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as
 are prescribed by law and are necessary in a
 democratic society, in the interests of national
 security, territorial integrity or public safety, for the
 prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of
 health or morals, for the protection of the reputation
 or rights of others, for preventing the disclosure of
 information received in confidence, or for
 maintaining the authority and impartiality of the
 judiciary. (xv) Internationally the problem of media trial is widely
 acknowledged as seen from number of foreign
 decisions. A reference is made to the decision of the
 U.S. Supreme Court in case of Billie Sol Estes vs. 44 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 Texas, reported in 381 US 532 (1965) to show that
 a rule is laid down to the effect that televising of
 notorious criminal trials is prohibited. Also, a
 reference is made to the decision of the House of
 Lords in England in the case of Attorney General
 vs. British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC),
 reported in [1981] AC 303. It is submitted that the
 British Courts have always favoured the rights of an
 accused over the freedom of the press. Reliance is
 placed on the decision in R. vs. Lord Chancellor,
 reported in (2017) UKSC 51 to contend that the
 English Courts have recognized the potential threat
 to justice posed by unrestrained publicity. (xvi) The basic function of the media is to report news
 and facts as they come, and the formulation of any
 opinion on the same is within the complete and
 exclusive dominion of the people. However, media as
 has been well observed, works to create or induce
 opinions, by narrating and reporting opinionated
 and tailored facts in news, which is beyond the
 scope, power and privilege accorded to the
 proverbial fourth-pillar and a blatant abuse and
 misuse of the right, and the same is impermissible
 and against all the canons of justice in a democracy.
 It is submitted that the media has already publicly
 tried and convicted the alleged accused and even
 proceeded to attribute a number of acts to the
 accused person attributing qualities such as
 murderer, abettor, addict, gold-digger, fraudster and
 such unproved attributes. (xvii) The Law Commission has dealt with the doctrine of
 media trial and has submitted its comprehensive 45 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 200th Report on the subject, in which the Law
 Commission has considered Universal Declaration
 of Human Rights concerning the rights of suspects
 and accused, the International Covenant on Civil
 and Political Rights referring to Article 14(2) and (3) of the European Convention for the protection of
 human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the
 Constitution of India. Referring to Article 20 of the
 Constitution, the Law Commission has specifically
 dealt with the issue of rights of the accused persons
 vis-a-vis the right to life and liberty referring to the
 CoC Act, which also postulates a criminal contempt
 in case of any act including any publication
 interfering with or obstructing the administration of
 justice in any manner. (xviii) In the current scenario, where the media has
 actually tried and convicted the suspects/accused
 and have brought in the public domain statements
 of witnesses, confessions, details of forensic reports,
 and all such things which would ordinarily be a
 matter of investigation and trial, to be dealt with by
 the Court while framing charges, the constitutional
 right of a fair trial has been seriously jeopardised. Case of the Respondents: That in furtherance of its objectives, the PCI under section 13(2)(b) of the
PCI Act has framed "Norms of Journalistic Conduct" which covers the
principles and ethics regarding journalism namely accuracy and
fairness, pre-publication verification, caution against defamatory
writings, trial by media etc. which are required to be adhered to by the
print media. It is stated that in regard to the alleged suicide by the actor,
the PCI issued an advisory dated August 28, 2020 to the media to
adhere to the norms framed by the PCI. Also, the PCI takes cognizance
suo-motu or on complaints, of the contents in print media which are in
violation of the 'Norms of Journalistic Conduct'. Further, as per section
14 of the PCI Act, the PCI, after holding an inquiry, may warn, admonish
or censure the newspaper, the news agency, the editor or the journalist
or disapprove the conduct of the editor or the journalist, as the case may
be. Hence, for any grievance relating to contents published in the print
media, the person aggrieved may approach the PCI directly, in
accordance with the provisions of 'Complaint Mechanism', which is
available on the PCI's website. 22. In regard to electronic media, it is stated that as per existing
regulatory framework, programmes telecast on private satellite TV
channels are regulated in terms of the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules
framed thereunder. It is stated that all programmes telecast on TV
channels are required to adhere to the "Programme Code"prescribed
under the CTVN Rules. It is next contended that as part of self-
regulatory mechanism, News Broadcasters Association (NBA), a
representative body of news and current affairs channels has formulated
Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards covering a wide range of
principles to self-regulate news broadcasting. The Code of Ethics and
Broadcasting Standards has made provisions that channels should 47 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

strive not to broadcast anything defamatory or libelous and must strive
to ensure that allegations are not portrayed as fact and charges are not
conveyed as an act of guilt. It is stated that NBA has set up News
Broadcasting Standards Authority (hereafter "the NBSA", for short) to
consider complaints against or in respect of broadcasters insofar as
these relate to the content of any news and current affairs broadcast. It
is stated that on August 13, 2020, the NBSA has also issued advisory
wherein attention of news channels is drawn to specific guidelines
covering reportage dated February 10, 2020 which deals with the
manner in which media should report in case of a suicide. The affidavit
further states that some complaints including the petitioners' complaint
dated June 20, 2020 were received in the MI&B against telecast of news
report relating to the demise of the actor by various TV channels. Some
of the TV channels are members of self regulatory body namely, the
NBA, and these complaints were forwarded to the NBA for further
necessary action in the matter on August 10, 2020. It is stated that the
NBA has also informed the MI&B that the matter is being inquired into.
It is further stated that the MI&B also has an institutional mechanism
to deal with the violation of the Programme Code. Further an Inter-
Ministerial Committee (hereafter "the IMC", for short) has been
constituted under the Chairmanship of Additional Secretary (MI&B) and
comprising officers drawn from the MI&B as well as Ministries of Home
Affairs, Defence, External Affairs, Law, Women & Child Development,
Health & Family Welfare, Consumer Affairs, and a representative from
the industry in Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCL) which
may review the decision/recommendation of the NBA. The IMC
functions in a recommendatory capacity. The final decision regarding
penalty and its quantum is taken by the MI&B. On the prayers as made
in the petition, it is stated that in regard to the content violation by the
print and the electronic media, the petitioner may approach the
appropriate forum as per details given in the preceding paras. It is
further stated that these forums take necessary action on the 48 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

representation in accordance with the existing guidelines/rules and
regulations. Counter-affidavit filed on behalf of PCI 23. On behalf of Respondent no.2 - Press Council of India (PCI),
reply affidavit of T. Gou Khanjin, Under Secretary is filed in the petition
filed by Mr. Asim Suhas Sarode. The affidavit contains that the PCI is a
creature of the Press Council of India Act, 1978 and serves as a
watchdog of the press, for the press and by the press. It adjudicates
complaint against and by the Press, inter alia, for violation of ethics and
freedom of Press. In this context, a reference is made to powers
conferred under Sections 13 and 14 to the PCI Act to contend that the
PCI has jurisdiction over the print media only and has powers to impose
such punishments of warning admonishing or censuring the news
papers, news agency, the editors, or the journalist or disapprove the
conduct of the editor or the journalist, as the case may be. It is
contended that the PCI has framed "Norms of journalistic Conduct",
wherein specific provision has been made with regard to reporting on
suicide which prescribes that the newspapers and news agencies while
reporting on suicide cases shall not; published stories about suicide
prominently and unduly repeat such stories; used language which
sensationalized or normalizes suicide, or presents it as a constructive
solution to problems; explicitly described the method used; provide
details about the site/location; use sensational headlines; use
photographs, video footage or social media links. It is contended that
besides warning admonishing and censuring the news papers, the news
agency, the editors of the journalists, the PCI under Section 15 (4) is
empowered to make such observations, as it may think fit in any of its
decisions or reports, respecting the conduct of any authority, including
Government. While exercising this power, the PCI may direct the
authority or the government to launch prosecution of any person or 49 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

authority. It is stated that the PCI had received a complaint through
email dated 20th June 2020 alleging the print media and digital media
had created mockery on the death of the late actor. The PCI by its letter
dated 24h June 2020 requested the complainant to file a specific
complaint against the print media by complying with the mandatory
requirements as per the Press Council of India (Procedure of Inquiry)
Regulations, 1979 within three weeks from the date of receipt of such
letter failing which the complaint would be dismissed. No specific
complaint was filed. The complainant was also informed that the
electronic media, internet, television channel, social media do not come
under the jurisdiction of PCI Act. Counter affidavit on behalf of the News Broadcasters Association 24. Ms.Annie Joseph, Secretary General of the NBA has filed an
affidavit. She states that NBA comprises of several important national
and regional private television news and current affairs broadcasters
who are its members. It is stated that since the electronic media is a
powerful medium of communication, one of the first initiatives of the
NBA was to put in place a Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards
("Code of Ethics") to be adopted and voluntarily followed by its member
broadcasters in April, 2008 so as to make this Code of Ethics effective
and to enforce the same by providing to the aggrieved parties a remedy
against breach by member-broadcasters. NBA also framed the News
Broadcasting Standards Regulations which contain the scheme for
setting up completely independent self-regulatory adjudicatory body,
namely, the NBSA to ensure compliance of the Code of Ethics. The
Regulations as also various guidelines/ advisories issued by it are
binding on the members of the NBA. 25. Referring to the decision of the Delhi High Court in Court
on its own Motion vs. State and Ors. , reported in 2009 Cri.L.J. 677, it 50 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

is stated that that the media being the fourth pillar of democracy, it was
observed by the Court that before a cause is instituted in a court of law
or is otherwise not imminent, the media has full play in the matter of
investigative journalism. This is in accordance with constitutional
principles of freedom of speech and expression as also in consonance
with the rights and duties of media to raise issues of public concern and
interest. This is also in harmony with the citizen's right to know,
particularly about events relating to the investigation of the case or
delay in the investigation or soft-pedalling on investigations pertaining
to the matters of public concern and importance. 26. Referring to the words of Lord Shaw in the case of Scott vs.
Scott, reported in [1913] AC 417, it is contended that publicity is the
very soul of justice. It is the keenest spur to exertion and the surest of
all guards against improbity. It keeps the judge himself while trying
under trial. The security of securities is publicity. 27. Referring to the interim order dated September 3, 2020
passed by this Court on these petitions, it is stated that already this
Court has urged the broadcasters to exercise restraint in its reporting of
the investigation of unnatural death of the actor which would in any
manner hamper or prejudice the on-going investigation being carried
out by the CBI. It is stated that the members of the NBA have abided by
the said order and as far as possible tried to strike a balance between
free speech and privacy of individual. 28. It is contended that for practicing self-regulation, it was
imperative to lay down guidelines, procedural safeguards, define
editorial principles consistent with the tenets of freedom of speech and
expression as articulated in the Constitution of India; the regulatory
framework; common sensibilities of television viewers and establish a 51 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

body that would act as a watchdog and a grievance redressal forum for
the member broadcasters and viewers. NBSA has been set up precisely
for the said reasons. NBSA deals with complaints of viewers against
telecasts made by the member broadcasters of the NBA. 29. It is contended that the NBA has considered balancing the
rights of viewers and its members. Referring to the decision of Supreme
Court in Destruction of Public and Private Properties vs. State of
Andhra Pradesh & Ors. , reported in (2009)5 SCC 512, at paragraphs 32
and 33, it is contended that the Court has referred to and accepted the
observations made by the Committee headed by Mr. Fali Nariman,
Senior Advocate. 30. The affidavit also makes a reference to the orders dated
February 8, 2012 and March 7, 2012 of the Delhi High Court in the
matter of Mr. Anant Kumar Asthana & Ors. vs. Union of India & Anr.,
[WP(Civil) No.787 of 2012], to state that the NBA became a member of
the Committee formed to frame guidelines to regulate media reporting
and disclosure of details relating to children. These guidelines were
approved by the Delhi High Court. It is thus contended that this Court
may not pass any adverse order which would in any way directly or
indirectly, affect or curtail the rights of the media. Counter-affidavit on behalf of the Central Bureau of Investigation
(CBI) 31. The CBI has stated that in pursuance of the notification
dated August 4, 2020 issued by the Home Department, Government of
Bihar under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act,
1946 (hereafter "the DSPE Act ", for short), the investigation of FIR
No.241/2020 dated 25 July 2020 registered under sections 341 , 342 , 380 , 406 , 420 , 306 , 506 , 120-B of the IPC at PS-Rajiv Nagar, Patna, 52 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Bihar relating to the death of the actor was transferred for investigation
to the CBI. It is stated that accordingly, a regular case vide RC
2242020S0001 dated August 6, 2020 was registered under the said
provisions of the IPC against one *** (read: the actress) and others, by
the CBI. 32. It is stated that the case was registered on the basis of a
complaint of Shri K.K. Singh, father of the actor, wherein it was alleged
that *** (read: the actress) and her family members and others hatched
a conspiracy. It was alleged that the actress developed intimacy with the
actor and took control of his credit cards and bank accounts and
misappropriated the funds of the actor. It is stated that in furtherance
of the said conspiracy, the actor was illegally restrained and confined, he
was threatened that he would be implicated in the suicide case of his
secretary, who died under mysterious circumstances in the intervening
night of June 08/09, 2020. The complaint also alleged that the actor
was made to believe that he was suffering from mental problem and was
threatened that if he fails to tow their line, his medical reports would be
made public, and thereby abetted him to finally commit suicide on June
14, 2020. 33. It is also stated that the Supreme Court of India by its
order dated August 19, 2020 in *** vs. The State of Bihar & Ors.,
reported in TP(Cri.) No.225 of 2020 approved the investigation being
carried out by the CBI. It is stated that accordingly, the CBI continued
investigation in a professional manner and utmost importance was given
to confidentiality of the process and findings of the investigation. 34. It is stated that the CBI has neither done any media briefing
nor is there is any leakage of information on its part; however, it cannot
prevent the electronic and print media from carrying and broadcasting
news items related to the case. It is contended that there is a huge 53 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

volume of user generated content in various platforms of social media
and the CBI cannot restrain the media from keeping track of the
movements of its team/officers/ witnesses/other persons of interest at
public places until and unless it amounts to interference in the
investigation, given the right to Freedom of Speech and Expression as
provided in the Constitution of India. 35. It is stated that on September 3, 2020, the CBI had released
a press statement in regard to its investigation being conducted in a
systematic and professional way and certain media reports attributed to
the CBI investigation are speculative and not based on facts. In this
context it is contended that as a matter of policy, the CBI does not share
details of ongoing investigation as also the CBI spokesperson or any
team member has not shared any details of investigation with the media
and the details being reported and attributed to the CBI are not credible.
It was also requested that media may confirm details from the CBI
spokesperson. It is stated that the CBI has not briefed the press after
September 3, 2020. 36. It is next stated that the petitioners' claim that such
reporting by the media is adversely impacting the ongoing investigation
by the CBI cannot be supported and would create a negative impact of
such news on the image and reputation of the CBI, in the eyes of public
at large. It is stated that there is no denying the fact that such reporting
results in prejudicing the public at large. It is stated that the CBI is
doing its investigation in an objective manner wherein all facts and
evidence related to the case are being meticulously scrutinized and
without being influenced by any external factors. It is stated that the
investigation carried out by the CBI is unhindered from such reporting
by media. It is categorically stated that the CBI has not leaked any
information related to the investigation of this case and the same has
maintained highest level of confidentiality and professionalism. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Counter-affidavit on behalf of T.V. TODAY NETWORK LIMITED
(INDIA TODAY GROUP) 37. At the outset it is contended that the petitioner is seeking
relief of a postponement order which cannot be sought in a Public
Interest petition as such relief can be sought by a person who is himself
aggrieved as held by the Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate
Corporation Limited (supra). 38. It is contended that the actor's case is not sub-judice and
this would be relevant in the context of sub- section 3(2) of the CoC. No
chargesheet has been filed by the investigating authority nor any Court
has issued a summons/warrant against the accused. Hence no
reporting on the said case can constitute contempt of court. The legal
position in India is unlike the position in England wherein a criminal
proceeding is considered to be "active" or sub-judice when any "initial
step" is taken in the case including arrest without warrant. However, the
CoC Act was enacted upon acceptance of the recommendations of the
M.P. Bhargava Committee (i.e. Joint Parliamentary Committee, which
submitted its report on February 23, 1970). The M.P. Bhargava
Committee has subsequently opined that the criminal case should only
be considered to be pending "when the case actually comes before the
court and it becomes seized of the matter." 39. Reference is made to the 200th Report of the Law
Commission of India which recommended that the CoC Act be amended
in order to bring it in line with the Contempt of Court Act, 1981 in
England. The said recommendations are yet to be accepted by the
Parliament. Consequently the actor's case cannot be considered to be
sub-judice as it stands presently. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 40. Reference is made to the observations as made in
paragraphs 35 to 36 and 46 to 47 in the decision rendered by the
Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited (supra), to contend that a postponement order, in some cases can be
issued in order to prevent contempt of Court; however, there is no
question of any contempt of Court in the case of the actor considering
the observations of the Supreme Court, as also that this is not the case
which is sub- judice or pending in any criminal court. Reference is also
made to the decision in Reliance Petrochemicals vs. Proprietor of
Indian Express Newspapers , reported in (1988) 4 SCC 592 wherein the
Supreme Court has held that, under the U.S Constitution the test of
"present and imminent danger" is applied before issuing any gag order.
Hence, when there is no imminent danger to the administration of
justice, the case being not sub-judice, there cannot be any gag order on
the media. Even in the case of Asaram Bapu vs. Union of India ,
reported in (2013)10 SCC 37, the Supreme Court declined the request to
impose gag order on the media. The contention that there is no question
of any contempt being committed by the media channels is further
sought to be canvassed by referring to some English judgments. It is
contended that the Supreme Court in Rajendra Gandhi (supra), has
held that although a trial by media is anti-thesis to the rule of law, the
onus is on the Judge to insulate himself from a media trial. It was
observed that "a Judge has to guard himself against any such pressure
and he has to be to guided strictly by rules of law." 41. It is contended that no general guidelines can be laid down
for preventing a media trial. This contention is supported by referring to
the decision of the Supreme Court in R.K. Anand (supra) where it is
held that no general guidelines can be laid down for prevention of a
media trial and that norms must come from within the journalistic
community. Reference is made to the observations in paragraph 330
where Their Lordships observed as under; Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 "330. It is not our intent here to lay down any
 reformist agenda for the media. Any attempt to
 control and regulate the media from outside is
 likely to cause more harm than good. The norms
 to regulate the media and to raise its
 professional standards must come from inside." 42. It is contended that the petitioners have made vague
allegations and they have not alleged any specific wrong doing on the
part of the answering respondent. No particulars of any such
objectionable reporting are set out in the petition which would have the
tendency to interfere with the administration of justice. It is contended
that the petition alleges some media organizations having implicated
prominent personalities. If this be so, considering the law laid down by the Supreme Court in R. Rajgopal vs. State of T.N. , reported in (1994)
6 SCC 632, there cannot be any restraint on any alleged defamatory
broadcast by the Press. It would be open for the person who is aggrieved
to file criminal case for defamation. It is laid down by the Supreme Court
that a statement against public official such as a Minister can only be
considered as defamatory if it is made "with reckless disregard for
truth." This is a question which would require a trial and cannot be
determined in a Public Interest Litigation. 43. Referring to the decision in Shreya Singhal vs. Union of
India , reported in (2015) 5 SCC 1, it is contended that according to the
Supreme Court there is distinction between "discussion" or "advocacy" of
view point and "incitement". The Court held that it is only when
discussion or advocacy reaches the level of incitement that Article 19(2) is attracted. If discussion on television news channels of the answering
respondent amounts to discussion/advocacy of a viewpoint, it is not
incitement. 44. A reference is made to the decision in Bilal Ahmed Kaloo
vs. State of A.P. , reported in (1997) 7 SCC 431 to contend that the 57 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Supreme Court has held that far more serious allegations levelled
against the Indian Army in Kashmir do not fall foul of section 153(A) of
the IPC. 45. In regard to the stand of this T.V. channel, it is stated that
India Today group originally started its journalistic activities with
publication of a magazine "India Today" way back in December 1975. It
is stated that electronic media came up as an additional way for
reaching out to the people with news and presentation of diverse views;
hence, the India Today Group entered the field of electronic media. The
India Today Group publishes magazine such as India Today, India
Today Hindi, Business Today besides the Indian editions of leading
international titles like Cosmopolitan, Harper's Bazaar and Reader's
Digest and all these magazines command a leadership status in print
media. In electronic media, the India Today Group has leading 24 x 7
news channels beginning with Aaj Tak which is a leading Hindi news
channel for the past two decades followed by India Today which is a
leading English channel and also two other Hindi news channels, i.e.,
Tez and Aaj Tak HD and 3 radio channels in Delhi, Mumbai and
Kolkata. Both Aaj Tak and India Today created history in channels
having positive impact on public opinion. The whole object of this news
channels has been to provoke thoughts, discussions and debates rather
than present any one-sided story. Practice of fair reporting by these
channels has earned the group reputation in the field of journalism
throughout India and overseas and also amongst its peers. All reporting
even on the concerns as raised by the petitioners, as far as this
respondent is concerned, are made in good faith and also are expression
of free and frank view over a topic of debate at national level. Issue
which is raised by the petitioner is covered by plethora of judgments and
hence no interference is called for in regard to the prayers as made in
the petition. 46. It is contended that in any case the petitioners have no 58 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

locus standi to agitate the cause of any private person or cause of any
investigating agency as an efficacious remedy is available to the citizens
against the concerned media house. An omnibus order for gagging the
media would cause harm to public interest rather than serving any
public interest. The provisions of the CTVN Act and the Rules framed
thereunder provide for sufficient remedy to the aggrieved persons. 47. It is next contended that Article 19 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, as also Article 19 on Civil Political Rights
duly recognized the freedom of press which is an integral part of freedom
of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution. Referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in Indian
Express Newspapers (Bombay) Private Limited and Others vs. Union
of India , reported in AIR 1986 SC 515, it is contended that the
"anticipated harm" on the part of the petitioners ought not to be allowed
as a shield to any authority to suppress freedom of press. It is next
contended that the apprehension of the petitioners is quite remote and
conjectural and no direct nexus with any actual adverse effect has been
averred by the petitioners. Referring to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Union of India and Others vs. Association for Democratic
Reforms, reported in AIR 2002 SC 2112, it is contended that although
one sided information, dis-information, mis-information and non-
information equally create an uninformed citizenry which would make
democracy a farce, however, to avoid such situations, right strategy
would be to strengthen the media rather than an attempt to bring undue
restraints on its rights. Hence, undue restraints imposed on the media
on the basis of one-sided beliefs of some persons claiming to espouse
cause of public interest would harm larger public interest. 48. It is contended that reporting in the news channels of this
respondent was fully compliant with the norms which are prescribed by
the NBSA. The petitioners have already sought to file complaint on June
20, 2020 against the news channels. The present petition which is filed 59 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

for omnibus reliefs is not maintainable and should be dismissed. Counter affidavit on behalf of Times Now. 49. At the outset, it is contended that the petition is not
maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution since there is no
violation of the fundamental rights or any legal right of the petitioners.
The petitioners are seeking enforcement of the provisions of the CTVN
Act and the rules framed thereunder and the self-regulatory guidelines
enforceable through the process of self- regulation. These reliefs are in
the nature of a pre-publication injunction, which is not permissible in
law. 50. It is stated that the petitioners, on their own accord, have
concluded that the reporting by the answering respondents is neither
fair nor equitable, without referring to the reporting as a whole. It is
contended that whether such reporting is in violation of any provisions
of law is a disputed question of fact and cannot be gone into under the
guise of exercise of jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution. Further this respondent "is not even" State or an
organization under the control of the Government to bring it within the
purview of Article 12 of the Constitution so as to be amendable to the
jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. It is
settled that a writ will ordinarily lie only against the State or
instrumentality of the State. Reliance is placed on the case of Binny
Ltd. vs. Sadasivan , reported in AIR 2005 SC 3202, wherein the
Supreme Court has held that a writ will lie against a private body only
when it performs public functions or discharges public duties. There is
no averment in the petition that this respondent is performing any
public function. Thus, the respondent cannot be considered as a 'State'
within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. 51. The petitioners have no locus whatsoever to raise an issue
about the on-going discussion on the death of the actor. The discussion
on the television has been conducted in public interest and to ensure 60 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

that justice is met. It is stated that this petition must be seen in the
light of fact that the same has been filed by 'busy body' petitioners who
are neither involved in the issue that is debated upon as an accused or
as a witness or is a victim of controversy. It is not a case where the
petitioners' rights under Article 21 are infringed by any means. The
petition is therefore certainly not maintainable. It is contended that the
Supreme Court has already passed necessary judgment/order,
upholding the fact of transfer of all investigation relating to the death of
the actor to the CBI and in pursuance thereto this Court has also
passed orders on September 3, 2020 and on September 10, 2020. Also
the NBSA has heard the matter in detail, and as such, is likely to pass
necessary orders; hence, the petition is infructuous to the extent that it
seeks the authorities to act. 52. There is also no violation either constitutional, statutory or
of the self-regulatory mechanism, as this respondent being a television
channel is involved in dissemination of the current affairs and news
being a fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India, which
cannot be curtailed, unless the restrictions as contained in Article 19(2) of the Constitution are triggered following a lawful procedure. No case of
violation is made out against this respondent. There is no violation of
any statutory provision by this respondent and/or of any self-regulatory
guidelines. The respondent thereafter has referred to the rights of the
media to disseminate information as recognised in several decisions.
This respondent has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in Romesh Thapar vs. State of Madras , reported in AIR 1950 SC 124 on
the importance of freedom of speech and expression both from the point
of view of the liberty of the individual and from the point of view of our
democratic form of government. Also, a reference is made to the decision
of the Supreme Court in Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India ,
reported in AIR 1962 SC 305 to contend that the Constitution Bench of
the Supreme Court held that freedom of speech and expression of 61 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

opinion is of paramount importance under a democratic Constitution
which envisages changes in the composition of legislatures and
governments and must be preserved. A reference is also made to the
judgment in Bennett Coleman & Co. v. Union of India , reported in
(1972)2 SCC 788 to contend that the freedom of speech and of the press
is the 'ark of democracy' as public criticism is essential to the working of
its institutions. A reference is also made to the decision of the Supreme
Court in S. Khushboo vs. Kanniammal & Others , reported in AIR 2010
SC 3196, wherein it is held that the importance of freedom of speech
and expression was necessary to tolerate unpopular views. A reference
is made to the decision of Delhi High Court in Sushil Sharma vs. The
State (Delhi Administration ), reported in 1996 Cri. LJ 3944 to contend
that the Court has held that mature investigative journalism helps in
unearthing many skeletons on which democratic institutions are
surviving. 53. It is next contended that the telecast as undertaken by this
respondent was a bonafide reporting of a matter of public interest to
which it was entitled to make. It is settled law that the press is entitled
to make fair comments on issues that impact the public at large, which
is the freedom of press, and a facet of the freedom of speech and
expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It is
stated that the telecast and news reporting on the unfortunate demise of
the actor is a step taken by this respondent to unearth the truth and to
bring it before the public at large. The right to know is a basic right
which the citizen of a free country aspires in the horizon of the right to
live in this age in our land under the Constitution. 54. It is contended that the postponement order as sought by
the petitioners are passed only in cases in which there is a substantial
risk to the fairness of the trial or for appropriate administration of
justice, unlike what is ongoing in the present case. This respondent has
never posed any risk or interfered with the investigation undertaken by 62 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

the three independent agencies namely the CBI, the ED and the NCB, all
of which are conducting investigation in a matter that is best suited as
per law. Hence the relief claimed in the present case and attempting to
seek a restraint order is a complete mockery and travesty of justice
besides direct infringement of the fundamental rights of this respondent.
This, particularly when the actor was a public figure and public interest
required that the public becomes aware of the happenings in the
investigation. It is contended that it is settled law that the media and
press should not be unnecessarily restricted in their speech as the same
may amount to curtailment of expression of the ideas and free
discussion in the public on the basis of which a democratic country
functions. Freedom of Expression and Democracy are the cornerstone of
our Constitution. The intention of the Constitution framers was that a
well-informed citizenry would govern itself better. The reality of open and
free public discussion and debate was considered central to the
operation of our democracy. Freedom of speech can be curtailed when it
shall prejudice the administration of justice and the petitioners have
failed to show and/or establish as to what has been reported till date by
this respondent was in any manner prejudicial to the administration of
justice. In this context, a reference is made by this respondent to a brief
note on Media & Judicial Independence by Mr. Justice P.B. Sawant
(retired) who has stated that no doubt media plays a very vital role in
present times, imedia has come to be known as the eyes and the ears of
the people. Over the years it has also become their brain and tongue." 55. It is contended that the petitioners have also not explained,
as to how, any of the answering respondent's news telecasts was in
violation of the Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards of the NBA.
Vague averments have been made against a few media reports without
any specifics and without in fact stating as to why and how a mere
telecast of live news reporting or news debates by the respondent could
be used to allege any violation of the Code. The petitioners cannot pray
for common and blanket order to be passed which would be an incorrect 63 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

position in law. 56. It is contended that freedom of speech and expression not
only includes the right to freedom of press but it also includes the right
to acquire information and consequently, the right to acquire
information includes the right to access to the source of information as
held in Prabha Dutt vs. Union of India , reported in (1982) 1 SCC 1.
Hence any attempt to deny such right to access to the source of
information must be frowned upon unless it falls within the mischief of Article 19(2) of the Constitution. 57. It is contended that the interpretation canvassed on behalf
of the petitioners is also devoid of practicality especially in view of the
prevalence of the electronic media and the internet. In this context
reference is made to the decision of the Supreme Court in Nakkheeragopal vs. State , reported in 2001(4) CTC 423 to contend that
while discussing the prohibition on exit polls during the 48 hours period
prescribed under section 126 of Representation of Peoples Act, the
Supreme Court in paragraph 25 has laid down that (i) the right to access
the source of information is required to be read into the freedom of press
protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, namely the freedom
of speech and expression; (ii) no restrictions could be made to interfere
with the freedom of press, unless 'law' specifically empowers the State or
its officials to impose any restraint, either prior or post; (iii) even if any
norms or guidelines were to be enacted by the State, following due
process of law, either on their own or on the suggestions of commission
appointed for the said object, the same would be valid, only subject to
the satisfaction of Article 19(2) of the Constitution; (iv) any restriction,
even imposed by a law, under Article 19(2) of the Constitution, the same
should not only be in the interest of public, but should also satisfy the
test of reasonableness; (v) the freedom of press is subject to the conduct
of public officials in discharge of their official duties. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 58. The respondent has next referred to the decision of the
Supreme Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) and more particularly to the
observations of the Court in paragraphs 13 to 19, 24, 25, 38 to 41, 46
and 47 to contend that the restriction on Article 19(1)(a) are limited to
the one recognised by Article 19(2). There is no concept of restriction in
public interest. That under the Constitutional scheme, it is not open to
the State to curtail freedom of speech and expression to promote the
general public interest. This freedom is important, as we need to
tolerate unpopular views. A fear of serious injury cannot justify
suppression of free speech and assembly; that there are three concepts
which are fundamental in understanding the reach of this most basic
human right. The first being discussion, the second being advocacy and
the third is incitement. Mere discussion or even advocacy of a particular
cause howsoever unpopular is at the heart of Article 19(1)(a) and it is
only when such discussion or advocacy reaches the level of incitement
that Article 19(2) is attracted. It is thus contended that in the present
case, whether reporting as undertaken has reached that level of
incitement is yet to be tested and is a disputed question of fact, which
cannot be looked into. This, particularly when the content of the right
under Article 19(1)(a) remains the same whatever the means of
communication including internet communication and television news
reporting. It is also necessary to consider as to whether the action
complained of affects the masses or the individual, as any individual
right must give way to the larger interest/right to know of the public
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It is also material
to consider as to whether the news reporting has the tendency to
present a clear and present danger or is it incitement to an offence. 59. It is next contended that there is no violation of any
statutory provision and more particularly of the CTVN Act and the rules
framed thereunder by this respondent. There is no violation of any of the
provision of the Programme Code in telecasting the news related to the 65 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

actor's death. It is then contended that this respondent has used its
sources and aids in exercise of its journalistic rights, ethics and duties
to unearth the intricacies involved in this case to inform the public at
large. It is contended that no particular person has been targeted
without any reason. The contents telecast in the news reports are
backed by reliable sources and corroborated with the progress of the
investigations. Such investigative journalism resorted to by this
respondent cannot be alleged to be intended or calculated to influence or
affect the ongoing investigations by the three independent investigating
agencies. It is next contended that the telecast is required to be seen as
a whole. The formats of TV news debates are that an anchor or host
begins and moderates the show which focuses on a specific topic,
usually a significant current newsworthy event and, the debate is
opened for discussion, amongst the invitees/guests, who either speak
for or against the topic, and invariably some tend to take a neutral or
extreme position. The debates are largely live, and it is not possible to
control the extreme views of the invitees/guests. It is thus necessary
that the entire discussion must be seen in that light. It is next
contended that there is no violation of any guidelines namely the alleged
violation of Code of Ethics and broadcasting standards or regulations.
The respondent has relied on the Norms of Journalistic Conduct issued
by the PCI particularly Norm No.26 in regard to investigative journalism,
which speaks about investigative journalism so as to include the
following two norms:- (a) That the investigative reporter should, as a
rule, base his story on facts investigated, detected and verified by
himself and not on hearsay or on derivative evidence collected by a third
party, not checked up from direct, authentic sources by the reporter
himself; (b) There being a conflict between the factors which require
openness and those which necessitate secrecy, the investigative
journalist should strike and maintain in his report a proper balance
between openness on the one hand and secrecy on the other, placing the
public good above everything. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Counter affidavit of Republic TV 60. Affidavit of Shri. Sivasubramanian Sundaram, Chief
Financial Officer, is placed on record. At the outset, it is contended that
the petition has been filed with ulterior motive and with an ultimate aid
to curtail the freedom of press enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution of India, by seeking a relief of temporary postponement of
news reporting including telecasting, publishing reports/articles, and/or
carrying out discussions/debate in relation to the unfortunate, sudden
and mysterious demise of the actor. It is contended that the petitioners
under the garb of the present petition is not only seeking gag order
against all media houses from making any publication but also
attempting to deprive the public of information in relation to suspicious
demise of the actor. The petition is thus an abuse of the process of law. 61. It is apprehended that the petitioners are directly or
indirectly connected with the film industry and this is relevant in view of
the fact that various members of the film industry are being regularly
probed by the investigating agency in relation to the death of the actor.
It is contended that this respondent has reasonable apprehension that
the present petition has been filed not only to curtail the rights of the
press but also with a malafide intention to safeguard the interest of such
people who apprehend disclosure] of their names due to the ongoing
investigation in relation to the death of the actor. It is contended that
legitimate investigative journalism as carried out by this respondent as
also other media houses have brought in unexplored angles and exposed
the inconsistencies pertaining to death of the late actor. 62. This respondent contends that this petition is nothing more
but a futile attempt to gag the media from reporting on the actor's death
case. It is contended that it has been a long fight of more than forty-
seven days of investigative journalism by the media who has unearthed
the pile of evidence in the case and put it before the people of India. It is 67 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

contended that given the alleged mis-handling of crucial evidence right
at the start of the case by the previous investigating agency and the
questions raised vis-a-vis the initial investigation, this respondent
believes that it is the urgent duty of the media to contribute in the fight
for justice in the actor's death case "by contributing in uncovering the
truth". It is contended that in the seventy-four years old history of our
democracy, there have been multiple instances of media having played
pivotal role in gathering evidence that poured into a massive campaign
for justice. The examples being Jessica Lal murder case, Nitish Katara
murder case, Rocky Yadav's case among the plethora of others which
are prime examples when the media came together with the people of
India in the fight for justice to prevail. 63. The affidavit narrates the facts brought in light by this
respondent in relation to the death of the actor which is stated to be the
evidence of un-impeachable character in relation to the unfortunate
death in question. This respondent alleges grave irregularities which had
taken place in the investigation. It is contended that such reporting has
brought into public domain the material facts and documents as also to
the notice of the investigating authorities. It is stated that this
respondent has carried out the investigative journalism in order to bring
correct facts and truth to the larger public and highlighting material
facts which have been ignored while conducting inquiry by the previous
investigating agency in relation to unnatural death of the actor. The
affidavit has also set out the instances as being stated to be pointed out
to the Court which are instances from June 2020 till August 30, 2020. 64. It is stated that Republic TV is a media house of repute in
the media fraternity and hence has a responsibility to provide
comprehensive and objective information to the public. It is stated that
this channel has published as also carried out discussions and debates
in relation to the demise of the actor with the sole intention to unfurl the
truth to the public at large. It is stated that people have a right to be 68 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

aware and be informed about events which relate to public figures.
Referring to the decision of the Delhi High Court in Surya Prakash
Khatri Vs. Madhu Trehan , reported in 2001(92) DLT, it is contended
that a free and healthy press is indispensable to the functioning of a
true democracy. The Court has recognized the right of public to be kept
informed about the current political, social, economic and other burning
topics and important issues of the day to enable them to consider and
form broad opinion about the same and that the primary function of the
press is to provide comprehensive information of all such aspects. It has
an educative and mobilising role to play and plays an important role in
moulding the public opinion and can be an instrument of social change. 65. The affidavit then refers to the norms of investigative
journalism and comments on the journalistic conduct published by the
PCI (Edition 2010), according to which the basic element of investigative
journalism would be that it has to be the work of the reporter, not of
others he is reporting; the subject should be of public importance for the
reader to know; and an attempt is being made to hide the truth from the
people. It is stated that although the norms of Journalistic Conduct
published by the PCI are not binding on this respondent, as the PCI has
a recommendatory role and not a binding role; however, this respondent
has maintained, in keeping with the essence of high standards of
journalistic conduct, such conduct while publishing information in
regard to the said incident. It is stated that time is testimony of the fact.
It is next contended that investigative journalism has unearthed matters
of grave concern and interest to the society at large. The Court has time
and again recognized the legitimacy of instances of investigative
journalism which have played an important role to reveal the issue
which pertains to larger cause and serve public interest. In paragraph
23 of the affidavit, the instances wherein the investigative journalism of
the respondent has aided the investigating agency to a large extent in
the interest of public is set out, which are the instances of the Sunanda 69 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Pushkar case, the Sheena Bora murder case and the role played by
them in breaking the Commonwealth Games scam, the 'Kargil for
profit'scam, the Devas-ISRO scam, the Aircel Maxis deal, and the Lalit
Gate scandal among others. It is stated that it is in the interest of justice
and persistence of the truth that the respondent should be allowed to
continue this method of investigative journalism in order to aid the law
and order machinery in the case while keeping the public duly informed.
It is next contended that investigative journalism by the media is in
accord with the principles of freedom of speech and expression as
enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and is in
consonance with the basic and fundamental right and duty of the media
to raise and discuss issues of public concern and interest. In this
context, reference is made to the decision of the Delhi High Court in the
case 'Court on its own motion (supra), wherein the Court has made
observations emphasizing the importance of investigative journalism. 66. It is next contended that the petitioners are trying to
obstruct the cause of investigative journalism and are also attempting to
deprive the masses of its right to information about current affairs. The
petition is therefore required to be dismissed failing which it would have
grave and wide ramifications and would serve as a death-knell for the
freedom of speech/press enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution. 67. The affidavit comments on freedom of press and rights of
media to state that in the preamble to the Constitution of India, liberty
of thought and expression of citizens has been secured. It is stated that
the Constitution affirms the right to freedom of expression, which
includes the right to voice one's opinion. It is stated that the freedom of
press is regarded as a 'specie' of which freedom of expression is a
'genus'. Referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in Indian
Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. (supra), it is 70 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

contended that the Court emphasized on the role of the press and the
right of the citizens to be well informed of the issues concerning public
interest. It is contended that in the petition there is no case made out for
curtailment of right of freedom of speech and expression. 68. A reference is also made to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Romesh Thapar (supra), to contend that the freedom lies at
the foundation of all democratic organizations, for without free political
discussion, there can be no public education which is quintessential to
the proper functioning of the democracy. The decision of the Delhi High
Court in Shashi Tharoor Vs. Arnab Goswami and Anr. , reported in AIR
2019 (NOC 134) 43 is relied to contend that the Delhi High Court held
that free and healthy press is indispensable to the functioning of a true
democracy and in a democratic set up there has to be an active and
intelligent participation of the people in the affairs of their community as
well as the State. Also referring to the decision of the Association of
Democratic Reforms (supra), it is contended that the Supreme Court
has held that one-sided information, disinformation, misinformation and
non-information all equally create an informed citizenry which makes
democracy a farce. 69. As to what would be "the Chilling Effect of the Media", the
decision of the Supreme Court in S.Khushboo (supra), is relied to
contend that any blanket ban or gag order in the form of injunction
restraining the broadcast of true facts will impinge upon the people's
right to know and will have a chilling effect on the right to free speech of
the media. The respondents also rely on the decision of the Supreme
Court in Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India (UOI), reported in AIR 2015
SC 1523 to submit that virtually any view expressed on any matter may
cause annoyance, inconvenience or may be grossly offensive to someone;
however, this does not justify curtailing the liberty to express such
opinions, nevertheless by causing a total chilling effect on free speech. It 71 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

is further contended that it is right of this respondent to provide public
with access to true and correct facts by undertaking the journalistic
right to inform. It is contended that not only in the fitness of things but
a necessary concomitant of democratic functioning, that the lives of
public figures is subjected to scrutiny. As the public have the right to
information in relation to public figures, this respondent being a
responsible media house deemed it reasonable and essential to raise
question concerning the peculiar circumstances around the unfortunate
demise of the actor. This respondent has highlighted the obvious
questions that remained and continue to remain unanswered in relation
to the death of the actor. It is thus contended that it is obviously in
public interest, that the role of Indian media is to expose the malaise
which plagues the Indian system in different spheres, thereby stalling
the progress as expected in a country which adheres to the rule of law
and the highest standards of criminal jurisprudence. Thus, the right to
freedom of speech cannot be curtailed merely on the basis of bald
allegations and vague aspersions of a media trial and of creating false
sensationalism as alleged in the petitions. A reference is made to the
decision of a learned Single Judge of this Court in Sunil Baghel & Ors.
vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors. (Cri. WP No.5434 of 2017) to
support this contention. 70. It is next contended that right of public to access true and
correct facts is required to be recognized. This ensures overall fairness
in the functioning of the justice delivery system which is achieved by
publishing reports and carrying out discussions and debates providing
the public access to facts which was being undertaken by this
respondent concerning the unnatural death of the actor. The right to
public access also emanates from section 327 of the Cr.P.C. which
reaffirms the principle of"open trial"and access of public towards such
open trials or criminal trials. This achieves public confidence in the
administration of justice. It is contended that discussions and debates 72 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

are required to be conducted openly, fairly and fearlessly to ensure that
machinery like the police and other public servants are not being
misused. In this context, a reference is made to the decision of the
Supreme Court in Kehar Singh & Ors. vs. Delhi (State
Administration ), reported in 1988 AIR 1883. 71. It is next contended that all the publications and media
debates as undertaken by this respondent are in consonance with the
provisions contained in the CTVN Act and CTVN Rules including the
Programme Code prescribed therein and do not violate the same as
alleged by the petitioners. This respondent practices ethical journalism
very seriously. This respondent is not a member of the NBA-respondent
no. 3. Hence, the Code of Ethics and broadcasting standards issued by
the NBA does not apply to this respondent. It is contended that the
reporting in relation to the demise of the actor and bringing about
material facts pertaining to the same in the public eye should not be
considered as violation of the provisions of the CTVN Act and Rules,
inasmuch as the same has been done within the domain of legitimate
investigative journalism and with the sole objective of bringing the truth
out in the open. 72. It is next contended that the petition is not maintainable
and is liable to be dismissed, as the petitioners have no locus standi to
seek preventive relief of temporary postponement of news reporting, as
the petitioners are neither the accused persons nor the aggrieved
persons whose right to fair trial has been allegedly curtailed in any
manner by the publication made by this respondent. This would also be
the position in law as recognized by the Supreme Court in its decision in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra) when it is held that
preventive relief of postponement of publication may be availed by any
accused or aggrieved person who apprehends that a particular
publication has real and substantial risk of prejudicing the proper 73 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

administration of justice or the fairness of his/her trial. Counter affidavit on behalf of Zee Media Corporation Ltd. 73. This respondent has contended that the petition is per se
not maintainable against the respondent inasmuch as the petitioners
have not shown any material to substantiate their allegations that this
respondent has been involved in reporting/conducting a media trial or a
parallel investigation which has been involved in reporting/conducting a
'Media Trial'/'Parallel Investigation' which directly or indirectly hampers
the investigation into the FIR in question registered by the CBI on
August 6, 2020 in relation to the unnatural death of the actor. This
respondent has not reported, published or telecast in the nature of
debates or discussion any material which could tantamount to "Media
Trial"/ "Parallel Investigation". Neither it has examined or cross
examined any witnesses or has interfered in the investigation process.
The petition is also not maintainable, as the petitioners have an
alternate efficacious remedy of filing a complaint before the NBSA, which
has the power to appropriately deal with its members like this
respondent in case of violation of its code of conduct. Also, the
petitioners have no locus standi to seek the relief of temporary
postponement of news reporting in any manner, as the petitioners are
neither the accused persons nor the aggrieved persons whose right to
fair trial has been curtailed in any manner. 74. Also, there is no violation of the Programme Code, as laid
down in the CTVN Act and the Rules. This respondent in fact has
engaged itself in legitimate and lawful investigative journalism without
making any attempt to interfere with the ongoing investigation by the
CBI. Any blanket ban or gag order in the form of injunction restraining
the broadcast of true facts will encroach upon the people's right to know
and violates the right to free speech. This will have a devastating and 74 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

detrimental effect on the functioning of news channel. This respondent
being the member of the NBA adheres to the Code of Ethics and
broadcasting standards framed by the NBA and will continue to adhere
to the same. The respondent has accordingly sought for dismissal of the
petition. Counter-affidavit on behalf of Narcotic Control Bureau 75. A counter-affidavit has been filed on behalf of the NCB-
respondent No.12. The affidavit states that the only allegation as made
against this respondent is in paragraph 8 of the petition that this
respondent is not maintaining secrecy and leaking information
pertaining to the investigation to the media. It is denied that the NCB is
leaking information to the media and/or is not maintaining secrecy in
regard to the ongoing investigation to the media as alleged by the
petitioner. It is stated that the NCB has maintained sanctity and
integrity of the ongoing investigation and confidential details of the
investigation have never been leaked in any manner. Counter-affidavit on behalf of Directorate of Enforcement. 76. A counter-affidavit has been filed on behalf of the ED-
respondent No.3. The affidavit states that the ED was impleaded as
respondent in pursuance of this Court's order dated September 10,
2020 and more particularly in the context of observations as made in
paragraphs 3 and 8 of the said order which records the contention of the
petitioner that "although the CBI has maintained secrecy, the other
agencies may not have been so particular and that information, supposed
to be kept confidential, is being leaked". The deponent states that as
regards the allegations of the petitioner of the ED not maintaining
secrecy and leaking information in regard to the investigations to the
media is concerned, it is submitted that the ED is one of the premier
investigating agencies of India with impeccable record and
unquestionable integrity in conducting investigations within the 75 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

statutory limits. It is stated that the ED neither entertains media in
course of any investigation nor indulges into leaking any information to
them. It is stated that confidentiality in any ongoing investigation is an
established parameter being practiced in the ED. ED maintains
maximum secrecy and confidentiality with regard to its investigations
and none of the confidential details pertaining to the investigation of this
case have been leaked by ED in any manner whatsoever is what is
contended. It is therefore prayed that the PIL be dismissed qua the ED. Additional affidavit on behalf of the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting 77. There is an additional affidavit on behalf of the MI&B-
respondent No.1 filed in pursuance of the order dated September 10,
2020 passed by this Court, whereby all the respondents were directed to
file composite reply affidavits dealing with the PIL petitions. As a
preliminary submission, MI&B contends that the Government upholds
the freedom of press. It is contended that the PCI is a statutory
autonomous body which has been set up under the PCI Act to maintain
and improve the standards of newspapers and news agencies, i.e., print
media in India and also to inculcate principles of self-regulation among
the press. In furtherance of the objectives of the PCI, 'Norms of
Journalistic Conduct' have been framed under section 13(2)(b) of the PCI
Act which cover the principles and ethics regarding journalism, viz.
accuracy and fairness, pre-publication verification, caution against
defamatory writings, trial by media etc. and the print media is expected
to adhere to the said norms. Also, an advisory was issued on August
28, 2020 by the PCI referring to the alleged suicide by the actor to the
media to adhere to norms framed by the PCI. It is stated that the PCI
takes cognizance, suo-motu complaints, or of the contents in print media
which are in violation of the 'Norms of Journalistic Conduct'. As per
section 14 of the PCI Act, the PCI after holding an inquiry warns,
admonishes or censures the newspaper, the news agency, the editor or
the journalist or disapproves the conduct of the editor or the journalist, 76 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

as the case may be. Therefore, in regard to any grievance relating to
contents published in the print media, the person aggrieved can
approach the PCI directly, in accordance with the provisions of
complaint mechanism. 78. It is stated that in regard to the electronic media, as per
existing regulatory framework, the content telecast on private satellite
TV channels is regulated in accordance with the CTVN Act and the Rules
framed thereunder. It is stated that section 5 of the CTVN Act provides
that 'No person shall transmit or re-transmit through a cable service any
programme, unless such programme is in conformity with the
prescribed programme code". The Programme Code, prescribed under
rule 6 of the CTVN Rules, contains the whole range of parameters
governing telecast of programmes on private satellite/cable TV channels.
It is stated that section 19 of the CTVN Act provides that where any
authorized officer thinks it necessary or expedient to do so in the public
interest, he may, by order, prohibit any cable operator from transmitting
or re-transmitting any programme or channel, if it is not in conformity
with the prescribed Programme Code referred to in section 5 and
Advertisement Code referred to in section 6 , or if it is likely to promote,
on grounds of religion, race, language, caste or community or any other
ground whatsoever, disharmony or feelings or enmity, hatred or ill-will
between different religious, racial, linguistic or regional groups or castes
or communities or which is likely to disturb the public tranquility. It is
stated that sub-section (2) of section 20 of the CTVN Act makes a
provision that where the Central Government thinks it necessary or
expedient so to do in the interest of the (i) sovereignty or integrity of
India; or (ii) security of India; or (iii) friendly relations of India with any
foreign State; or (iv) public order, decency or morality, it may, by order,
regulate or prohibit the transmission or re-transmission of any channel
of programme; sub-section (3) of section 20 of the CTVN Act provides
that where the Central Government considers that any programme of
any channel is not in conformity with the prescribed Programme Code 77 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

referred to in section 5 or the prescribed Advertisement Code referred to
in section 6 , it may by order regulate or prohibit the transmission or re-
transmission of such programme. It is stated that the Government of
India has also notified guidelines for up-linking and down-linking of TV
channels in India for grant of permission for up-linking/down-linking
private satellite TV channels. As per para 5.2 of the guidelines for up-
linking from India, one of the basic conditions/obligations of the
company permitted to up-link registered channels is that the company
shall comply with the Programme Code and the Advertising Code
prescribed under the CTVN Act and the Rules framed thereunder.
Further down-linking guidelines also carry similar stipulations under
para 5.1 thereof. It is thus stated that the permission granted to any
private satellite TV channel operating company, under the guidelines
also binds the company to comply with the Programme Code. 79. It is stated that the up-linking and down-linking guidelines
have also made provisions for penalties. It is stated that as per para 8.1
of the said guidelines, in case a channel has been found to have been
used for transmitting any objectionable/unauthorized content
inconsistent with public interest, the Central Government has the
power, inter-alia, to revoke the permission granted. Also, as per para 8.2
of the up-linking guidelines, Central Government has the power to
impose penalties for violation of any of the terms and conditions or other
provisions of the said guidelines as set out in paragraph 8.2.1 and 8.2.3.
It is stated in paragraph 8.2.1 that in the event of first violation,
suspension of the permission of the company and prohibition of
broadcast/transmission up to a period of 30 days is provided for. In the
event of second violation, suspension of the permission of the company
and prohibition of broadcast up to a period of 90 days is provided for
and paragraph 8.2.3 provides, in the event of third violation, for
revocation of the permission of the company and prohibition of
broadcast up to the remaining period of permission. It is stated that
similar provisions have been made in the down-linking guidelines as 78 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

contained in paragraphs 6.2.1, 6.2.2. and 6.2.3. 80. The affidavit further states that MI&B has also set up
Electronic Media Monitoring Centre (EMMC) to monitor the content of
private satellite TV channels with reference to the violation of the
Programme and Advertising Codes. Further the MI&B has also issued
directions to States to set up State Level and District Level Monitoring
Committees (DLMC) to regulate content telecast on cable TV channels.
The Committee takes a decision on the complaints received by it. The
DLMC provides a forum where the public may lodge a complaint
regarding content aired over any television distribution platform (cable,
DTH, HITS or IPTV), private FM Channels and Community Radio
Stations operating in the District and act on the same as per the
procedure prescribed in the Office Memorandum dated April 26, 2017.
The mandate of the DLMCs includes keeping a watch on the content
carried by Television Distribution Platform Operator at local level and
ensuring that it is in conformity with the prescribed Programme and
Advertising Codes and to also ensure through authorized officers that no
un-authorized channels are carried and local content that is aired is
presented in balanced and impartial way and not in a a manner which is
to offend or incite any community. It is further stated that so far in 19
States and 5 Union Territories, SLMCs have been set up. Also, DLMCs
have been constituted in 329 Districts. 81. The affidavit further states that the MI&B has also
constituted an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) under the
Chairmanship of the Additional Secretary (I&B) and comprising of
officers drawn from various Ministries of Central Government i.e.
Ministry of Home Affairs, Defence, Women & Child Development, Health
& Family Welfare, External Affairs, Law & Justice, Consumer Affairs and
a member from the industry is a representative from Advertising
Standards Council of India (ASCI), to look into specific complaints
regarding violation of the Programme Code, as defined in Rule 6 of the 79 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. The IMC accords focused and
careful attention to the cases of violation of Programme Code and makes
appropriate recommendations to the MI&B. A copy of order for
constitution of IMC is also placed on record. It is stated that appropriate
action is taken against TV channels in case any violation of the
Programme Code is established. It is stated that action against TV
channels may extend from issue of warnings or advisories to comply
with the Programme Codes or directing channels to run apology scrolls
on their channels and can extend up to taking the channels off-air
temporarily for varying periods depending on the gravity of the violation.
The affidavit also sets out the details of action taken against authorized
private TV channels for violation of Programme and Advertising Codes
during the period of 2015 - 2020. A tabular statement in the affidavit
shows that about 173 actions which are in the nature of advisories,
specific channels, common warning orders for apology scrolls have
been made of which about 18 are "Off-air Orders". 82. The affidavit further states that apart from the above
regulatory framework, Government has encouraged self-regulation in
broadcasting industry. The affidavit sets out the self-regulatory
mechanism established by industry bodies which deal with complaints
about programmes and advertisements on TV channels viz. (i) NBA,
representative body of news and current affairs TV channels, has set up
the NBSA headed by retired Judge of the Supreme Court/High Court, to
consider complaints against or in respect of broadcasters relating to
content of any news and current affairs telecast on TV channels; (ii) The
Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF), representative body of non-news
and current affairs TV channels, has set up a Broadcasting Content
Complaints Council (BCCC) headed by a retired Supreme Court/High
Court Judge to examine the complaints relating to the content of
television programmes; (iii) Advertising Standards Council of India
(ASCI), established in 1985, has set up Consumer Complaints Council
(CCC) to consider the complaints in respect of advertisements. In 80 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

conclusion, the affidavit avers that in regard to the content violation in
the print and electronic media, the petitioner may approach the
appropriate forum as per details as set out in the affidavit and that
these forums can take necessary action on the representation in
accordance with the existing guidelines/rules/ regulations. Hence,
according to the deponent, no case is made out against the Government
of India and the petition needs to be dismissed qua the respondent. Counter affidavit of respondent no. 14-ABP News 83. At the outset, it is contended that this respondent has been
arrayed to enable the Court to address the issues raised in the PIL
petitions effectively as observed in the order dated September 10, 2020.
It is contended that there are no allegations against this respondent.
This respondent has, throughout the course of reporting of the case on
the surrounding circumstances of the death of the actor, abided by
ethics of journalism, broadcasting standards and professional conduct
as expected and required under the CTVN Act and Rules and the News
Broadcasters Standard Regulations and the applicable laws and
regulations. This petition is only an attempt to gag and block the entire
media from reporting true and relevant facts on the mysterious
circumstances surrounding the death of the actor only because of the
manner and mode in which certain news channels are covering the said
case disregarding the ethics of journalism, engaging into media trials. It
is in fact the prime duty of the media to provide information at large and
highlight true and correct facts. Both the judiciary and the media are
engaged in the similar task, i.e., to discover the truth, to uphold the
democratic values and to deal with social, political and economic
problems. The media has been called the handmaiden of justice, the
watchdog of society and the judiciary, the dispenser of justice and the
catalyst for social reforms. Hence, it is the utmost responsibility of all
the media houses, news channels and press to report in a responsible
manner. It is contended that because of the chaotic reporting and 81 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

demeanor of certain news channels, the other media houses should not
and cannot be put under any adverse blanket orders. Article 19(1) of the
Constitution guarantees the Right to Freedom of Speech and
Expression, i.e., right to hold opinions without any interference in all
forms. The Freedom of Press in India, although like the United States of
America is not a separate guaranteed right, it is still covered and is given
the status of freedom under Article 19 by the Supreme Court of India.
There is already a framework of law under the CTVN Act and the Rules,
the PCI Act and the Self-Regulations as adopted under the auspice of
the NBA to look into any complaints against the electronic media. It
would be the jurisdiction of the NBSA to adjudicate all issues as against
members of the NBA and the NBSA should be given recognition as a
statutory body to bring adjudications against all media houses under
one umbrella. It is, accordingly, submitted that no adverse orders be
passed against this respondent. Counter affidavit on behalf of the India TV 84. The contention, at the threshold, is that the Writ Petition
does not contain any specific allegation against the respondent no.15
and it is for this reason that this respondent was not impleaded as a
party by the petitioner. However, subsequently in view of the order
dated September 10, 2020, this respondent has been arrayed as one of
the parties to the present proceedings and hence this respondent be
dropped from the proceedings. It is contended that the public interest
lies in the public being well informed and made aware of important news
and events. This petition is not a bonafide petition but has been filed for
grabbing the public's attention and somehow stop the reporting of the
news and events pertaining to the Bollywood links to the events
mentioned in the petition thereby having a chilling effect on the media.
The media is the fourth pillar of the democracy and it is the duty of this
pillar of democracy to keep all other authorities within the constitutional
bounds. It is for this reason that the Freedom of Press has been secured 82 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

and protected as a Fundamental Right under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution. The rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) are only
subservient to Article 19(2) of the Constitution. Hence under the
constitutional scheme, the right under Article 19(1)(a) can only be
reasonably restricted by law made by the State for the reasons specified
under Article 19(2). Thus, by virtue of this petition, the right guaranteed
to the media channel cannot be throttled and would not be permissible
in law and any such curtailment would strike at the heart of the
Constitution thereby hitting the basic structure of the Constitution. In
this context, a reference is made to the decision of the Supreme Court in Virendra vs. The State of Punjab , reported in AIR 1957 SC 896,
wherein the Supreme Court has observed that : 85. It is thus contended that the "content regulation" cannot be
done by any public authority; however, as a responsible news channel
along with other like-minded news channels, the respondent has itself
submitted to the Regulations of the NBSA and the guidelines as laid
down by this body. NBSA has an appropriate mechanism to entertain
complaints of any violation of the standard and code as prescribed by it
and is also authorized to impose appropriate penalties as prescribed.
NBSA also recommends to the MI&B to cancel the licence of news
broadcasters in case of serious violation of any of the standards/code as
prescribed. It is contended that the NBSA has already heard various
news broadcasters including this respondent on the issue of news
coverage of the death of the actor and has reserved its order. The
petition, therefore, is required to be relegated to the NBSA being the
correct forum. This respondent has also raised an objection to the
maintainability of this petition similar to the one as raised by the other 83 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

respondents - TV channels on the ground that the petitioners are not
aggrieved persons as explained by the Supreme Court in the decision Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra). Counter affidavit on behalf of respondent no. 16 - News Nation 86. At the outset, it is contended that there are no averments
against this respondent in this petition and the respondent has been
impleaded only to cause harassment to this respondent. The affidavit is
on similar lines as in the case of the preceding two respondents in
regard to the contentions on Freedom of Speech and Expression. Counter affidavit on behalf of respondent no. 17 - News
Broadcasters Federation 87. It is contended that the public interest petitions seeking
relief of temporary postponement, inter alia, of news reporting in relation
to the unfortunate death of the actor are not only in effect attempting to
restrain all media houses from making any publication but is in fact an
attempt to deprive the public of information in relation to the said
unfortunate incident. The relief, if granted, would curtail the freedom of
press enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. There
is apprehension that the petition involves elements of private interest
and is directly or indirectly connected with the film industry as seen
from the petition. Also, the petition filed by the retired police officials is
not maintainable being motivated. The intention is to suppress the
shortcomings in the investigation carried out by the police force in
Maharashtra and muzzle the media from bringing forth these details
before the public at large. 88. It is contended that this respondent is a private association
consisting of various regional news channels and current affairs
broadcasters which is about 60 members and is a single representative
body which presents a unified and credible voice before the various 84 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

regulatory authorities, government departments and other key
stakeholders for the purpose of ensuring effective growth of the industry
for all its members. 89. The counter affidavit highlights the right of the media as
guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) referring to the decision of the
Supreme Court in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. &
Ors. (supra); Romesh Thapar (supra) and Association for Democratic
Reforms (supra). Also, a reference is made to the decision in Shreya
Singhal (supra), which lays down out principles on the chilling effect
and overbreadth of provisions that curtail the freedom of speech and
expression. 90. The affidavit states that this respondent has formulated
"Broad Framework on Editorial Guidelines" for its member-channels
which explicitly states that members of this respondent shall refrain
themselves from certain actions which are set out in paragraph 22. It is
contended that there is a procedure for strict compliance of this
guidelines. Also, a complaint redressal mechanism has been formulated.
In case of any violation, a complaint can be made to the designated
grievance cell and after hearing the alleged erring channel, if it is found
that there is violation of any of the norms, the panel issues
order/warning directing the defaulting member- channel to run an
apology scroll specifying the date and time and such other action to be
taken. Repeated violation by the defaulting member-channel is also
penalized with an order/warning to run an apology scroll for 2 days and
removal of the defaulting anchor for upto three months and/or a
financial penalty up to Rs. 5 lakhs. Any repeat violations by such
defaulting members would also attract a financial penalty up to Rs.10
lakhs. 91. It is contended that the petitioners thus have an efficacious 85 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

and alternate remedy to have their grievances redressed by filing a
complaint. The affidavit justifies action taken by the TV channels in
respect of alleged complaint as made in the petition filed by the retired
police officials. It is contended that these petitioners do not have any
locus standi to maintain such petition on vague averments as made in
the petition. In support of these contentions, reference is made to the
decisions of the Supreme Court in Kehar Singh & Ors. (supra), Firoz
Iqbal vs. Union of India & Ors. [WP (Civil) No.956 of 2020] and R & M
Trust vs. Koramangla Residents Vigilance Group , reported in (2005) 3
SCC 91. COUNTER AFFIDAVIT OF UNION OF INDIA IN PUBLIC INTEREST
LITIGATION NO.1774/2020 (M.N. SINGH'S CASE) 92. Shri.Prem Chand, Under Secretary, Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting, Government of India has filed a counter affidavit
which is identical to the affidavit filed in the above Public Interest
Litigation filed by Mr. Nilesh Navlakha to which we have referred in
extenso; therefore, we do not refer to the contentions. COUNTER AFFIDAVIT ON BEHALF OF THE NEWS BROADCASTING
ASSOCIATION. 93. This respondent has filed 3 affidavits dated September 29,
2020, October 6, 2020 and October 11, 2020. These affidavits are of Ms.
Annie Joseph, Secretary General of the NBSA. Affidavit dated September
29, 2020 is identical to one filed in Nilesh Navlakha's petition, which we
have discussed hereinabove. 94. In the affidavit dated September 29, 2020, the NBSA has
informed the Court that in regard to the complaints received by it on the
issue of news coverage of the death of the actor, the NBSA is in the
process of adjudicating and passing its orders on such complaints which
was being undertaken after hearing the complainants and news
broadcasters as set out in the affidavit. The affidavit also sets out the 86 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

position of the NBSA and the procedure which the NBSA would adopt to
adjudicate such complaint. 95. In the affidavit dated October 6, 2020 it is stated that the
NBSA has passed orders on the complaints received by it in respect of
member-broadcasters on telecast relating to the death of the actor.
Orders passed by the NBSA are placed on record, which would be
binding on its members. NBSA has stated that orders have been passed
by it based on whether the member-broadcasters have violated the Code
of Ethics, various guidelines and advisories issued from time to time.
Clarificatory observation is made at the end of each order that in the
statement by both the parties in proceedings before the NBSA, while
responding to the complaint and putting forth their view points, any
finding or observation by the NBSA in regard to the broadcasters in its
proceedings or in such order, are only in the context of examination as
to whether there are any violations of any broadcasting standards and
guidelines; they are not intended to be "admissions" by the broadcaster
nor intended to be "findings" by the NBSA in regard to any civil/
criminal liability. 96. In the additional affidavit dated October 11, 2020, it is
stated that the NBSA has always dealt with the complaint received by it
as expeditiously as possible and has also decided several complaints in
respect of broadcasting and reportage on the unnatural death of the
actor. In regard to concern of the petitioner on media trial on such
death, it is submitted that the NBSA has issued additional advisories
and guidelines which would clarify the doubt that even on the aspect of
media trial, there are already such instructions issued by the NBSA. It is
stated that there are well established fundamental principles of Code of
Ethics and Broadcasting Standards which the members of the NBA are
bound to follow while telecasting its programmes. The Ethics includes
that the broadcasters should report fairly with integrity and
independence, adhere to the highest possible standards of public service 87 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

and recognize that they have a special responsibility since they have the
most potent influence on the public opinion. There are specific
guidelines covering the reportage to deal with the fact that information
gathered should be reported accurately and the facts should be clearly
distinguishable from and not be mixed up with opinion, analysis and
comment. 97. It is contended that in furtherance of principles and
regulations, the broadcasters are bound to follow rules laid down by the
guidelines for conducting 'sting operations'. It is stated that the NBSA
has laid down specific guidelines that requires the broadcasters to
strictly vet and edit the reportage of sensitive matters and to ascertain
its veracity and credibility. The broadcasters should not make any
defamatory, derogatory, derisive or judgmental statements. It is stated
that also specific guidelines are formulated for reporting the court
proceedings. In view of all these guidelines, it can be inferred that the
NBSA can adjudicate upon complaints received by it on several aspects
that impact the trial or investigation by the police and action can be
taken against any broadcaster who has violated the Code of Ethics and
guidelines. COUNTER AFFIDAVIT ON BEHALF OF T.V. TODAY NETWORK
LIMITED (INDIA TODAY GROUP) 98. It is stated that the petition does not involve any public
interest and is clearly aimed at espousing the cause of certain
individuals presently occupying positions within Bombay police. The
petitioners themselves were part and parcel of the Maharashtra Police.
Hence, it is necessary that claims and assertions in the petition are put
to strict scrutiny when the petition seeks to place restraint upon media
on the basis of perceived fear of jeopardy to the reputation of police and
about loss of faith of public in the system and in police administration.
It is set out that even police administration is susceptible to aberrations,
mal-functioning and corruption due to various internal and external 88 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

factors. It is submitted that not only relating to the death of the actor
but in most of the so-called high-profile cases, this respondent has been
dutifully performing the role of a watchdog against possibility of
injustice upon any individual, be it a victim or the accused. In a case
they may be unnoticed because common people are overawed by the
glitz of the police machinery. The petitioners cannot expect that the
media should turn a blind eye to the shortcomings of the police when on
one hand the media channels also shower praise on their achievements
and successful investigation. It is submitted that the petitioners have
themselves interrogated with the media frequently with the intent of
gaining publicity for their official acts while they were in service. Such
information is available on Google Search. It is, however, unfair for them
to expect that the media should refrain from showing the other side of
the police to the people of India. The petitioners' fear of the people losing
faith in media is completely imaginary and baseless. Expecting the
media to be censored till completion of investigation and thereafter till
the Court's verdict would mean that the petitioners are keen to postpone
a healthy and timely public debate and are concerned more about
personal and vested interest of policemen rather than any public
interest. If matters are left exclusively to "official police machinery" and
if there is no public awareness and awakening about the ongoing
process of investigation as also about ongoing trial proceedings in a
Court of Law, it may be too late when the follies are realized and in such
situations there would be irreparable harm and injury to justice itself.
Hence, prayers made by the petitioners factually seek to glorify and
justify the static nature of system when the system needs constant
scrutiny, constructive criticism and corrective measures are required to
be encouraged. Hence, omnibus prayers ought not to be granted. Rest
of the contents of this affidavit are similar to the points of this
respondent's counter affidavit filed in the case of Nilesh Navlakha and
others. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Counter affidavit on behalf of Zee Media 99. Mr.Akash Mehta, authorised representative of Zee Media
Corporation has filed this affidavit dated October 6, 2020 which is on
the same lines as the affidavit filed in the PIL filed by Nilesh Navlakha.
In this affidavit, it is contended that the petition is without any basis
and of cause of action, as no specific allegations are made against this
respondent. Also, the petition is not maintainable, as the petitioners
have alternate efficacious remedy of filing the complaint before the NBA.
The petitioners have no locus standi to maintain this petition, as the
petitioners are neither the accused nor aggrieved persons, whose right to
fair trial have been allegedly curtailed in any manner by the respondent.
The petitioners have also not been subjected to any breach or violation
of the Programme Code as laid down in the CTVN Act and Rules framed
thereunder. No material whatsoever has been produced in that regard.
This petition has been filed with ulterior motive to curtail Freedom of
Press enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. Such an
attempt to thwart the liberty of thought and expression is not
maintainable. Counter affidavit on behalf of ABP News 100. The reply affidavit on behalf of this respondent is of Mr. Raj
Kumar Variar dated October 1, 2020, which is similar to the reply
affidavit as filed in the petition of Nilesh Navlakha & Ors., the contents
of which are already noted by us above. Counter affidavit on behalf of India TV 101. The reply affidavit on behalf of this respondent dated
October 1, 2020 which is almost similar to the reply affidavit as filed in
the petition of Nilesh Navlakha & Ors., the contents of which are already
noted by us above. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Rejoinder affidavit on behalf of the petitioners 102. Nilesh Navalakha, petitioner no. 1 has filed a rejoinder
affidavit dated October 10, 2020 dealing with the reply affidavit filed by
respondent no.1-UOI primarily contending that the affidavits as filed on
behalf of the MI&B have not addressed the principal issue before this
Court, namely of media trial. The affidavits of the MI&B are completely
silent as to what steps have been taken by the MI&B in respect of media
trial qua the death of the actor and whether the electronic media has
complied with their mandatory obligations under the Programme Code
as mandated in Rule 6 of the CTVN Rules. It is stated that the
UOI/MI&B has abdicated its primary role of calling for accountability or
implementing the role of law and obligations under the Uplinking and
Downlinking guidelines, more particularly when in the reply affidavit of
the UOI it is recognized as a self-regulatory mechanism created by the
electronic media. It is submitted that self-regulation can only be in
addition to the existing legal framework and cannot be in substitution of
it. It is stated that when the complaint of the petitioner was referred to
the NBSA, it is clear that the UOI/MIB had abdicated its primary role of
calling for implementing the rule of law under the Uplinking and
Downlinking guidelines. It is stated that the UOI has also established
Electronic Media Monitoring Centre (EMMC) with the view to monitor
and record the content of satellite TV channels with regard to violation
of Programme and Advertisement Codes under the CTVN Act and Rules,
which is supposed to be equipped to monitor and record around 900
channels. It is stated that if the EMMC is in existence and functional
and content on the TV channels is claimed to be monitored, it is not
known as to how the repeated violations of the Programme Code
enshrined under the CTVN Act and Rules escape the scrutiny of the
committee. 103. By this affidavit the Uplinking and Downlinking guidelines 91 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

of 2011 are placed on record under which permission for satellite TV
channels are granted under two categories, namely, 'News and Current
Affairs TV channels' and Non-News and Current Affairs TV channels'. A
condition is imposed under the General Terms and Conditions
(Condition No. 5.2) which apply the Programme and Advertising Codes
and the rules framed under the CTVN Act and Rules. 104. It is stated that as regards the broadcasting media industry
in India, it is divided into two different bodies to represent television
news channels - i) NBA; and (ii) NBF. It is stated that neither of these
two bodies have any statutory recognition. They are merely private
bodies, which claim to be a part of the self-regulatory mechanism for the
electronic media. The bodies cannot be a total replacement for the
statutory and other obligations as mandated by the Rule of Law. It is
submitted that restrictions under Article 19(2) can be only imposed by
the State and not by any private body. Hence, the mechanism of self-
regulation as a substitution for Government regulation is not only
contrary to the scheme of the 'Constitution' but also arbitrary. Self-
regulatory mechanism can be in addition to the rule of law but not in
substitution. Also, there is no mechanism for enforcement of the orders
of the private self-regulatory bodies and non-compliance has no
consequences. 105. It is stated that the UOI/MI&B has been selective for the
reasons best known to itself in imposing its own Programme Code and
has sought to depend upon a non-statutory organization to adjudicate
upon the complaints made against its members. UOI has not made any
attempts to even ensure that the orders passed by the NBSA are also
enforced in letter and spirit. This inaction on the part of the UOI smacks
of malafide and is arbitrary. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 106. A reference is made to an order passed by the Delhi High
Court in Writ Petition No. 6568 of 2020 emanating from the present
issue wherein the High Court has reprimanded UOI and directed MI&B
to issue interim directions to the media houses. Pursuant thereto, the
UOI after almost four months of miscarriage of justice has on October 9,
2020 issued advisory to the media channels to adhere to the Programme
Code. In these circumstances, it is contended that the petition is
required to be allowed. 107. There is a consolidated rejoinder to the counter/reply
affidavits filed by the respondent nos.4, 12 and 13 by the petitioner
no.1-Nilesh Navalakha dated October 10, 2020, whereby the petitioners
have placed on record several instances being extracts of the
programmes of different channels which according to the petitioners was
not a media (sic) but vilification campaign severely affecting the rights of
free and fair trial and affect a fair investigation. It is contended that the
broadcasters have telecast highly sensitive/confidential information
including Whatsapp chats, CDRs etc. which are in fact obtained from
the investigating agencies. Following paragraphs in the counter affidavit
according to the petitioners affect the conduct of the investigating
agencies and news channels as may be noted: 108. There is a consolidated rejoinder affidavit filed by the
petitioners to the reply filed by respondent no.3-NBSA and respondent
no.17-NBF to contend that these are private bodies comprised of the
private corporate media channels formed by the channels in a bid to
regulate themselves. The jurisdiction of the said bodies extends only to
the private members who expressly submit to their jurisdiction so as to
be bound in a self-regulatory mechanism. He states that the NBSA was
formed as a separate offshoot of the NBA pitching itself as a completely
distinct and independent body. It is stated that as one of the news
channel, Republic TV, was not inclined to tender an unconditional
apology as ordered by the NBSA, the said news channel withdrew its
membership of the NBA and instead of abiding by the directions of the
NBSA, formed the NBF as an alternate self-regulatory body. It is
submitted that NBF has no grievance resolution mechanism. UOI/MIB
has not even recognized or have even mentioned the presence of the NBF
as a self-regulatory body. It is contended that there are several small
and large news channels which are not members of either the NBA or
the NBF and thus, continue to air or broadcast anything in the garb of
free speech. NBA including the NBSA and the NBF have been rendered
merely as rubber-stamps and paper-tigers and are ineffective when it
comes to regulation of media channels or any substantial reasonable
restriction on the transgression, abuses and misuse of free speech 97 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

thereof. The adjudicatory authorities like the NBSA are bodies against
the fundamental and cardinal principle of natural justice that 'no one
can be a Judge in its own cause' and all proceedings of such authorities
accordingly stand vitiated and always coloured with prejudice and bias
in favour of its constituent members. It is submitted that in view of the
ineffective grievance mechanism and failure of the self-regulating
organization, several petitions across the country are filed seeking
effective guidelines and mechanism, the details of which are set out in
paragraph 15 of the rejoinder affidavit. It is contended that there is an
ongoing turf/war between the NBA and the NBF constituents, as if two
belligerent TRP thirsty factions or gangs fighting for supremacy and
dominance over one another. It is a sorry state of the media today that
in the dirty skirmish for TRPs, the truth is the first of the casualties. 109. There is also a consolidated rejoinder affidavit to the
counter/reply affidavits filed on behalf of the respondent nos. 6, 7, 8,
11, 14, 15 and 16 whereby the petitioners denied the factual and legal
stand taken in the reply affidavits of these respondents. 110. We need not discuss in detail the contents of these
affidavits. Suffice it to note that the petitioners by this affidavit would
urge that the entire media reporting of the actor's death amounts to a
media trial offending the Programme Code prescribed under the CTVN
Act and Rules and action in this regard were required to be taken by the
UOI. Additional Affidavit in PIL of M.N. Singh & Ors. 111. There is an additional affidavit dated 8 September 2020 by
Satish Chand Mathur on behalf of respondent No.7. By this affidavit,
the petitioner has brought on record certain videos and its transcripts
highlighting the conduct of the members of respondent Nos.3 and 4
which according to them is material to decide the present petition. The 98 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

petitioners contend that they have prayed for a direction against
respondent Nos.2 to 4 to ensure that reporting of crimes and criminal
investigations are carried out in a balanced, ethical, unbiased and
objective manner and not to turn such reporting into media trial and a
vilification campaign against the police, investigators and others. In
supporting this contention, the petitioner has annexed copies of certain
screen-shots of the broadcasts against Mumbai police in contending
that, such screen-shots would demonstrate a vicious campaign run by
the members of respondent Nos.3 and 4 and how unfair aspersions are
cast on Mumbai Police by the media. Such material is placed on record
to urge that irresponsible and maliciously false propaganda was made
by the media houses against Mumbai police stated to be clear from the
videos of the broadcast. Such grievance as raised by the petitioner is
against the Republic T.V., Times Now and Aaj Tak of their broadcasts on
various dates as set out in paragraph 5 of the affidavit. It is contended
that although there was caution to the media to exercise restraint by an
order dated 3 September 2020 passed by this Court, there was a total
contravention of the said order by the members of respondent Nos.3 and
4 who continued the unabated barrage of allegations and running a
vilification campaign against Mumbai police thereby transforming the
crime reporting into media trial, hampering the ongoing investigations.
The transcripts of the videos broadcasted by the Republic TV on 3
September 2020, and 4 September 2020, subsequent to the order dated
3 September 2020 passed by this Court are placed on record along with
a Compact Disk. 112. There is another additional affidavit dated 22 September
2020 filed on behalf of the petitioners again to bring on record certain
videos and its transcripts highlighting the conduct of the members of
respondent nos. 3 and 4 stated to be in breach of the orders dated 3
September 2020 and 10 September, 2020 passed by this Court urging
members of respondent nos. 3 and 4 to show restraint in the media 99 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

reporting pertaining to the death of actor. The primary grievance in this
affidavit is again against Republic TV and the debates being held on this
channel between 9 p.m. to 10. p.m. on 11 September, 2020, 13
September, 2020, 14 September 2020, 15 September 2020, 18
September 2020 and 20 September 2020. The affidavit gives extracts of
the objectionable contents to contend that such telecast were in
absolute disregard to the spirit of the orders passed by this Court on 3
September, 2020 and 10 September, 2020. Submission of Advocate Mr.Kamath on behalf of the PIL petitioners - Nilesh Navlakha and others:- 113. At the outset Mr.Kamath has submitted that the present PIL
raises an issue as to whether a media trial of the kind unleashed by the
respondent-news broadcasters on the death of the actor can be said to
be legal and permissible expression of the right under Article 19(1)(a) of
the Constitution. The second issue raised is as to whether the
contract/licence entered into between the broadcaster and the UOI
under the Up-linking/Down-linking guidelines would be binding on the
broadcasters. The third issue which he raises is as to whether the MI&B
being the Nodal Ministry has abdicated its statutory functions under the
CTVN Act and the Rules read with the policy guidelines of 2011 and the
licence executed with the broadcaster, to the private bodies like NBSA
and NBF. 114. It is submitted that the need to file the present PIL petition
had arisen in view of the spectre of media trials by the news
broadcasters (media channels) which have become the order of the day.
Such media trials, according to him, not only impede the right to a fair
trial guaranteed to accused persons but is also an overreach of the
freedom under Article 19(1)(a) of fair and proportionate reporting. It is
contended by him that the case of the petitioners is that in the garb of 100 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

'public interest', the news broadcasters have exploited the unfortunate
death of the actor for generation of TRP, by sensationalizing the
investigation relating to his death and conducting a parallel media trial.
Such coverage, according to him, is not only in bad taste, but also
antithetical to the rule of law. Hence strict action against news
broadcasters conducting a parallel media trial and for violating the
Programme Code needs to be taken. 115. It is submitted that although the right of freedom of speech
and expression as enshrined in Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is the
hallmark of a democracy, thereby protecting the right of the free press
and the free media, however, like every fundamental right, the freedom
of the press and media cannot be unlimited or unfettered. This even if it
is accepted that necessity of a free media for the proper functioning of a
democratic polity cannot be undermined. In this context, a reference is
made to the observations of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., in
Schenck vs. United States, reported in 249 US 47, when His Lordship
observed "....... The most stringent protection of free speech would not
protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a panic
......" 116. It is submitted that the guarantee of the right to freedom of
speech and expression in India, is different from the First Amendment to
the American Constitution, which proscribes the Houses of Congress
from making any laws "abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press" 117. He further contended that the right to freedom of speech
and expression enjoyed by the press and the media is in actuality the 101 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

right enjoyed by the private owner of the news broadcaster (media
channel). In this context a reference is made to the observations made
by Mr.Laurence H. Tribe, constitutional scholar, who observes "......
People have come increasingly to rely on television and radio for
information. Newspapers, still a viable means of communication, are
increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few large chains. In short,
more and more of the most important forums and means of communication
are coming under the control of fewer and fewer private owners." 118. In the above context, a reference is also made to the
observations of the Supreme Court in Virendra (supra) wherein the
press has been recognized as an institution with immense and
enormous power on the minds of the readers. The Court observed that
the wide sweep of the reach of the newspapers and the modern facilities
for their swift circulation to territories, distant and near, must all enter
into the judicial verdict and the reasonableness of the restrictions
imposed upon the press has to be tested against this background. It is
contended that the same would be true in the case of electronic media
where the power would be much higher than those of the newspapers. In this context, reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court
in S. Rangarajan vs. P. Jagjivan Ram , reported in (1989) 2 SCC 574, in
which the Court was dealing with a question of prior restraint on
cinematographic films under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 . It is
submitted that what would be the influence of such media on the mass
audience who are generally not selective about what they watch,
becomes all the more relevant in the present context. 119. It is hence submitted that dissemination of news being
available to the public at large in their homes, without any hindrance
and restriction in real time, the news broadcasters have a powerful
influence on the public opinion and public discourse. It is submitted 102 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

that although prior restraint on the exercise of freedom of speech on the
news broadcaster is not desirable, it cannot be said that the power
exercised by the broadcaster cannot be without accountability or
responsibility. In this context, Mr.Kamat has referred to the thoughts of
John Stuart Mill, in his treatise - 'On Liberty', when he observed: 120. It is submitted that media trial is an affront to the rule of
law and interferes with administration of justice. To buttress this, the
petitioners have presented in the pleadings several instances of a
parallel media trial pertaining to the death of the actor, carried out by
the Respondents-news broadcasters. It is submitted that these news
broadcasters with impunity have attempted to influence public opinion
on the guilt or otherwise of suspects, discussed material evidence, cross
examined witnesses on live television, etc. According to the petitioners,
such coverage is antithetical to the rule of law, and also in direct
contravention of the right to fair trial, right to reputation, etc. of
persons. Such media trial is an affront to two foundational principles of
our Constitution, namely, the Rule of law and the administration of
justice by the Courts. 121. By referring to the 200th Law Commission Report as to what
constitutes a "Media Trial", it was urged that the Law Commission of
India has categorized 10 types of publications in the media as
prejudicial to a suspect or accused: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 124. Next, it is submitted that the UOI being the repository of the
resource of the "airwaves" is duty bound to ensure that the conditions
for grant of airwaves are strictly complied with. In this regard, he
submitted that under Entry 31 of List 1 of the 7th Schedule to the
Constitution, the UOI would have exclusive power to make laws in
respect of broadcasting. The exclusive privilege of granting licenses for
the use of air waves, lies with the Central Government, under Section 4 of the Telegraph Act, 1882. The licenses are granted to broadcasters.
The broadcasters apply for grant of licenses to use this public property
(air waves) for commercial exploitation, upon satisfaction of the
conditions laid down in the Up-linking/Down-linking guidelines under
which permission is granted by the MI&B and subsequently, a license is
granted. 125. It is urged that the broadcaster, while using airwaves (public
property) for broadcast, cannot claim immunity from being regulated or
be accountable qua the public interest. In supporting this submission,
reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in Secretary,
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting v. Cricket Association of
Bengal , reported in (1995) 2 SCC 161 to contend that the Supreme
Court has held that airwaves constitute public property and must be
utilized for advancing public good. The Court has also held that it is the
duty of the State to see that airwaves are so utilized so as to advance the
free speech rights of the citizens which is served by ensuring plurality
and diversity of views, opinions and ideas. It is submitted that the free
speech right guaranteed to every citizen of this country does not
encompass the right to use these airwaves at his choosing, and
conceding such a right would be detrimental to the free speech rights of
the body of citizens, in as much as only the privileged few, powerful
economic, commercial and political interests, would come to dominate
the media. It is thus submitted that it is incumbent upon the State to
ensure that there is a balancing of rights of various stake holders. In the 105 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

event of the failure of the State, it is submitted that this Court and the
Supreme Court, in exercise of the wide powers of judicial review, must
direct the State to balance the rights. The petitioners, thus, seek a
direction to the State/UOI to implement the tenets of the Programme
Code', which the news broadcasters are bound to comply, in the case of
the on-going media trial on the death of the actor. It is submitted that
unlike the PCI Act, there is no statutory regulator for the electronic news
broadcasters (media channels) in India, although there is a regulatory
mechanism in terms of the contractual obligations under the permission
to uplink/downlink. 126. It is next submitted that the Up-linking/Down-linking
guidelines bring about contractual obligations on the broadcasters,
which include the news broadcasters. The broadcasters are governed by
the CTVN Act and the Rules framed thereunder, by virtue of the contract
entered into by the broadcaster. In this context, a reference is made to
section 5 of the CTVN Act which provides for the Programme Code and it
was urged that the broadcaster is also governed by the Up-
linking/Down-linking guidelines under which two types of permissions
are granted by the UOI, firstly, permission for news and current affairs
and secondly permission for non-news and current affairs. The petition
although concerns the first category, it is argued that the general terms
and conditions as stipulated under the guidelines for Up-linking/Down-
linking are relevant in as much as any violation of the CTVN Act and the
Rules framed thereunder would entail penalties including prosecution. 127. It is submitted that in an application as made by the
broadcasters and for grant of a licence when a broadcaster undertakes
to comply with the tenets of the Programme Code and the Advertising
Code as prescribed under the CTVN Act and the Rules framed
thereunder that too by filing affidavit alongwith the application form, in
respect of the contents broadcast, the broadcasters in that event are 106 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

bound by all the terms and conditions of such rules and regulations
revolving around it. A reference is also made to the "proforma affidavit" 128. Mr.Kamat submitted that in the event there is contravention
of the Programme Code, the necessary corollary is that the
consequences specified under the Up-linking/Down-linking guidelines
will follow. He further submitted that conducting an unfettered media
trial will be in contravention of the tenets of the Programme Code, and
therefore, it is imperative for the UOI to check the content of the
broadcast in respect of the media trial in relation to the death of the
actor, followed by consequences in the event of contravention. Next, he
submitted that there are obligations on the UOI under the guidelines for
permission to uplink/downlink of television channels which cannot be
abdicated by the Government to private bodies. In this regard, he
submitted that the UOI has a duty to ensure that the Programme Code
is complied with by the broadcaster. It was also submitted that UOI has
a duty cast upon it, to ensure that the air waves (public property) are
not used in a manner which are contrary to the tenets of the Programme
Code, since the Programme Code mirrors the restrictions enumerated in Article 19(2) , and also is an expression of general public interest in
respect of news broadcast. Hence, it is submitted that the UOI is duty
bound to ensure that the larger public interest is not compromised by
the news broadcaster, more particularly when it is exploiting public
property for a commercial purpose. To support this submission, reliance
was placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in Commissioner of
Police, Bombay vs. Gordhandas Bhanji , reported in 1952 SCR 135,
wherein the Supreme Court held that it is the duty of the person in
whom power is conferred to exercise the power in a manner as
prescribed when called upon to do so. As the Government has a
mechanism in place to deal with the violations of the Programme Code,
suo motu or upon a complaint, it is not open to the holder of the
resource, not to achieve compliance of the Programme Code. This is
more so when the statutory body for the print media, namely, the PCI,
has issued an advisory to the print media on August 28, 2020 reminding 108 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

the media to follow the norms of journalistic conduct in reporting on
issues relating to the death of the actor. Considering all this, the
inaction of the UOI has led the petitioners to file this PIL petition, as the
complaint regarding the insensitive media reportage of the death of the
actor as well as insensitive remarks qua the Indian Army made on June
20, 2020 remained unattended, much less decided. According to the
petitioners, it is surprising that such complaint was forwarded by the
UOI to the NBSA which is a private body. This action of the UOI,
according to the petitioners, is nothing but an act of abdication of a core
function, viz. ensuring compliance of the conditions of the permission to
use natural resources (air waves), which is impermissible. The news
broadcasters ought to have been brought to book, instead of forwarding
the complaints of violation of the Programme Code to the NBSA, and
action should have been taken by the UOI for non-compliance and
proportionate consequences ought to have been imposed on the news
broadcaster. The broadcasters are also bound by the Up-linking/Down-
linking guidelines and the terms and conditions thereof. The news
broadcasters, given the mandate of Rule 6 of the CTVN Rules had no
option, but to follow the tenets of the Programme Code, even while
reporting on an ongoing trial. It is submitted that the tenets of the
Programme Code cannot be sacrificed at the altar of what is perceived as
"public interest" in the individual opinion of the news broadcaster. To
support this contention, reliance is placed on the decision in New Bihar
Biri Leaves Co. v. State of Bihar , reported in (1981) 1 SCC 537 when
the Supreme Court observed that when a person with his eyes open and
on his own accord accepts the conditions in a contract entered with the
State, he is bound by such conditions as may be contained in the
contract. He cannot be allowed to adhere to and abide by some of the
terms of the contract which proved advantageous to him and repudiate
the other terms of the same contract which might be disadvantageous to
him. It is submitted that the maxim qui approbat non reprobat (one who
approbates cannot reprobate) squarely becomes applicable in the 109 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

present context. A reference is also made to the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Excise Commr. vs. Issac Peter , reported in (1994)
4 SCC 104 to submit that when a person enters into a contract freely
with the State, there is no room for invoking the doctrine of fairness and
reasonableness against one party to the contract (State), for the purpose
of altering or adding to the terms and conditions of the contract, merely
because it happens to be the State. 129. It is thus submitted that the petitioners seek that the
conditions of permission to uplink/downlink be complied with by the
news broadcasters, in the coverage/telecast of the investigation/trial in
respect of the death of the actor, and in the event of non-compliance, the
UOI be directed to impose consequences in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the permission to uplink/downlink. It is submitted
that when the news broadcasters have themselves agreed to comply with
the Programme Code in terms of an affidavit of undertaking, the news
broadcasters are estopped from resisting implementation of the
conditions and the consequences for non-compliance, on a plea of Article 19(1)(a). 130. It is submitted that the regime of self-regulation by the news
broadcasters cannot be a substitute for the failure of the UOI to
discharge its obligations under the licence issued to the news
broadcasters. This, more particularly when the NBSA and the NBF are
private bodies, comprised of the private corporate media-channels,
formed by the channels in a bid to self-regulate. The jurisdiction of these
bodies extend only to the private members who expressly submit to their
jurisdiction, so as to be bound in a 'self-regulatory' mechanism. NBSA is
a private-body, headed by a former Hon'ble Judge of the Supreme Court,
formed so as to internally adjudicate upon violations, transgressions
and non-compliances of its own Code of Ethics & Broadcasting
Standards. This mechanism is available only in respect of the members 110 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

of the NBA, and only to those news broadcasters who agree to subject
themselves to the jurisdiction of the NBSA. Also, the NBF was formed as
an offshoot of the NBA, pitching itself as a completely distinct and
independent body of broadcasters, parallel to the NBA. As per the
reports available in public domain on November 09, 2019, the NBSA, the
self-regulatory authority, had directed an English news channel,
Republic TV (Respondent No.8), to air an unconditional apology for
previously undermining the authority of the NBSA in a case of ethical
violations. Instead of complying with the directions of the NBSA,
Respondent No. 8 withdrew itself from the membership of the NBA and
formed an alternate "self-regulatory" body named NBF, which has no
grievance resolution mechanism. The submission is that it is possible to
have different self-regulatory mechanisms at the hands of TV channels,
when in our country there are more than 700 channels and all of them
are not part of the self-regulatory mechanism. It is an argument
advanced by the news channels that they would not permit the UOI to
exercise its control. It is submitted that it is not the first time that the
members of the NBA have withdrawn from its membership. The other
broadcasters which include India TV had withdrawn from their
membership only to avoid non-compliance of the norms of the NBA as
imposed by the NBSA. It was thus submitted that the self-regulatory
mechanism being championed by the Respondents is totally illusory,
there is no real check on violations of even the Ethical Code, let alone
the mandatory Programme Code as prescribed under section 5 of the
CTVN Act. It is submitted that both the NBA (including the NBSA) and
the NBF (which remains unrecognized by the UOI) have not been able to
effectively regulate the news broadcasters and implement the
Programme Code, which is being continually violated. In any event, the
State's regulatory mechanism cannot be replaced by self-regulatory
mechanism, especially when it is concerning the use of public property,
namely the air waves. The self-regulatory bodies also do not adjudicate
upon the violations of the Programme Code and merely adjudicate the 111 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

violation of their own broadcasting guidelines. It is submitted that a
broadcaster has no option but to comply with the Uplinking-
Downlinking guidelines as well as the Programme Code; therefore the
NBA/NBSA and the NBF admittedly have no jurisdiction to implement
the violation of the Programme Code and it is only the UOI which has
jurisdiction. This is the reason that neither have the petitioners sought
any relief against the NBSA nor can the NBSA replace the UOI for
implementation of the legal framework. It is next submitted that the
adjudicatory structure of the NBSA and the NBF as adjudicatory
authorities, go against the very fundamental and cardinal principle of
natural justice, viz. that 'No one can be a Judge in its own cause,'
though such body could be headed by a former Judge of the Supreme
Court or of the High Court. These are private bodies having no authority
in law to adjudicate upon any violations of the Programme Code or to
ensure that errant news broadcasters are visited with consequences.
There is also absolutely no enforcement mechanism for the orders of the
self-regulatory authority. While the self-regulation mechanism may be in
addition to the existing regime, it is submitted that it cannot replace the
mechanism for enforcing the terms and conditions of the permission to
uplink/downlink given to a news broadcaster. This is more so, when the
news broadcasters themselves undertake to comply with the 'Programme
Code' and the 'Advertising Code', and accept that in the event of non-
compliance, consequences will ensue. It is submitted that the NBSA
being a private body, its decisions are not subject to the jurisdiction of
the High Courts or the Supreme Court under Article 226 or Article 32 ,
respectively. The maximum punishment for an infraction of the Code of
Ethics of the NBSA is merely a fine of Rs.1 lakh, which is a paltry sum
for a news broadcaster, and disproportionate to the effect of the
infraction. 131. The next contention of Mr.Kamat is that the possibility of
abuse cannot be a ground to validate the failure of the UOI to discharge 112 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

its obligations under the regulatory regime. It is submitted that a
doomsday picture has been painted on behalf of the NBA/NBSA as also
by the media channels when they contend that UOI ought not to be
permitted to regulate the media space as it could lead to a situation akin
to the "1975 Emergency" and the excesses meted out to the Press.
According to him, such an argument is misconceived for several
reasons. First, neither the UOI nor any of the broadcasters have sought
to question the present regulatory regime consisting of the Uplinking-
Downlinking guidelines read with the terms and conditions of the
license. There is even no challenge by the broadcasters to the existing
legal regime. In this background, neither the UOI nor the broadcasters
can escape their obligations under a binding agreement resting on some
apprehensions of abuse of power by the UOI. In the absence of any
challenge to the validity of the existing legal regime, the Respondents
cannot wish away the same and seek the imprimatur of this Court on
the admitted deviations from the binding contract between the UOI and
the news broadcasters. Secondly, it is a well settled legal position that
the mere possibility of abuse is not a ground to deny the existence of a
power. In this context, reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme
Court in Mafatlal Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India , reported in (1997)
5 SCC 536, wherein the Court referring to the case of Collector of
Customs vs. Nathella Sampathu Chetty , reported in 1962 AIR 316,
observed that "(T)he possibility of abuse of a statute otherwise valid does
not impart to it any element of invalidity." The Court, also referring to
the decision in State of Rajasthan v. Union of India , reported in (1977)
3 SCC 592, observed that the wisdom of man has not yet been able to
conceive of a Government with power sufficient to answer all its
legitimate needs and at the same time incapable of mischief and it must
be remembered that merely because power may sometimes be abused, it
is not a ground for denying its existence. What emerges is that it is not
the question as to whether the mechanism is good or bad, adequate or
inadequate, but the question is when there are mandatory conditions for 113 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

the exploitation of public property for commercial purposes, whether the
consequences for the non-compliance of those conditions are imposed
by the UOI or not. It is then submitted that all the news broadcasters
have admitted to the binding nature of the Programme Code in relation
to the content of the news broadcast, in addition to the admission given
at the time of applying for permission. Also, there is no challenge to
these guidelines or to the Programme Code. It is thus submitted that the
regime under the Up--linking/Down-linking guidelines cannot be
disputed by the private bodies and the news broadcasters. In this
context, reference was made to the decision of the Supreme Court in State of U.P. vs. Harish Chandra , reported in (1996) 9 SCC 309 to
contend that no mandamus can be issued to direct the Government to
refrain from enforcing the provisions of law or to do something which is
contrary to law and that the same principles have been reiterated by the
Supreme Court in a subsequent decision in Union of India vs. S.K.
Saigal , reported in (2007) 14 SCC 556. It is next submitted that the
judicial review by constitutional courts is the best check on abuse;
hence, any action under the prevailing mechanism is subject to
challenge by invoking judicial review jurisdiction of this Court when
there is abuse of power by the State. Such abuse is not immune from a
challenge and judicial scrutiny. It is submitted that this Court may
direct that procedural safeguards be complied with by the UOI while it
exercises power under the prevailing mechanism, in terms of providing
of an opportunity for hearing and general compliance of the time
honoured principles of natural justice. It is submitted that this Court
may direct that any adverse order as against a news broadcaster will
remain in abeyance for a period of 15 days or so as to enable the news
broadcaster to approach the appropriate Court. It is submitted that the
process of action under the prevailing mechanism may be time
consuming, as the prevailing mechanism is consequential in nature, and
not as a prior restraint. In this regard, it is submitted that for the
purposes of prior restraint, it is always open to the aggrieved parties to 114 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

approach the jurisdictional Courts for injunctive relief complaining of a
content proposed to be broadcast by the news broadcaster. However,
that cannot be in substitution of the contractual obligations under the
permission envisaged in the Up-linking/Down-linking guidelines, and
mandate of the Programme Code, that a news broadcaster is duty bound
to comply with, and face the consequences that follow for non-
compliance thereof. 132. Mr.Kamat next submitted that the respondents' case relying
on the decisions of the Supreme Court in R.K. Anand (supra); Common
Cause v. Union of India , reported in 2017(2) Scale 169; and Destruction of Public & Private Properties (supra) to canvass that the
Supreme Court has supposedly approved the self-regulatory
mechanism, is not a correct argument in the present context as the
enforceability of the Up-linking/Down-linking guidelines are conditions
of the license were not the subject matter of any of these decisions. In
none of these decisions any binding contract was placed before the
Court as also it was never the case that the binding contract would be
overcome by self-regulation and self-regulation be permitted. It is
submitted that the observations are required to be read in the context in
which the controversy arose in these cases. In this regard, the
observation of Lord Halsbury in Quinn v. Leatham, reported in (1901)
AC 459 is relied on wherein it was observed that a case is only an
authority for what it actually decides and it cannot be quoted for a
proposition that may seem to flow logically from it. It was also submitted
that in Sahara India Real Estate Corp. Ltd. (supra) the Court was
seized with the limited issue of laying down of guidelines for media
reporting of Court trials and concerned about the issue in regard to pre-
publication of materials to be produced in the Court by the media
outlets as clearly seen from paragraphs 6 to 9 and 12 of the said
decision . It is thus submitted that the scope of the said decision is very
limited and in no way encompasses the issues raised in the present case 115 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

which, inter alia, raises an issue of enforceability of the terms and
conditions of the license issued by the UOI to the news broadcasters. On
these submissions, it is submitted that the prayers in the writ petitions
be allowed. Submissions of Mr. Aspi Chinoy, learned Senior Advocate on behalf
of the petitioners M.N. Singh & Ors. 133. At the outset, Mr.Chinoy submitted that in this petition the
Court should clarify and direct that all television channels in the course
of a news report, panel discussion or otherwise shall not make
observations, statements, suggestions, or otherwise create a perception
that any person is guilty of an offence, or that any such person should
be arrested, regarding an ongoing police investigation, or a pending
criminal proceedings. The reasons being that such a media trial/pre-
judgment interferes with or obstructs the administration of justice and
constitutes contempt of court and is covered by the prohibition
contained in rule 6(f) of the CTVN Rules which provides that 'No
programme should be carried in the cable service which contains anything
amounting to contempt of court'. 134. In relation to the self-regulatory framework, it is submitted
that the News Broadcasting Standards Regulations provide for a Code of
Conduct under which the authority (NBSA) would entertain complaints
and take actions. The maximum fine to be imposed by the authority is
Rs. 1,00,000 and in addition to this power, for the reasons to be
recorded in writing, it may warn, admonish, censure, express
disapproval against and/or impose a fine upon the broadcaster and/or
recommend to the concerned authority for suspension/ revocation of
license of such broadcaster. It is submitted that the "Code of Ethics and
Broadcasting Standards" also makes no provision in regard to contempt
of court or media trial or a pre-judgement. There are specific guidelines
covering reportage as issued by the NBA. In paragraph 3.3 it is provided 116 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

that "Reports on crime should not amount to pre-judging or pre-deciding
a matter that is, or is likely to be subjudice". In paragraph 3.4 of these
guidelines, it is provided that "No publicity should be given to the
accused or witnesses that may interfere in the administration of justice
or be prejudicial to a fair trial." It is submitted that despite the statutory
& self regulatory framework, in regard to the ongoing criminal
investigation into the death of the actor, certain TV Channels for the
past few months were conducting a persistent media trial and have been
running programmes/hashtags calling for the arrest of the actress. It is
submitted that the record establishes that no action whatsoever has
been taken against such TV Channels/ broadcasts either by the UOI or
by the news broadcasters. Such persistent inaction in the face of
repeated broadcasts over a number of months, must result in a
conclusion of total abdication of their duty/obligation by the
UOI/EMMC and by the NBA to stop such offending broadcasts. It is
submitted that it is a mis-apprehension that such media trial or a
prejudgment during the pendency of a criminal investigation, does not
affect the administration of justice and does not constitute contempt of
court. In either of these situations, it is felt just and necessary that this
Court clarifies and directs that such media trial/pre-judgement, during
a pending criminal investigation, or the pendency of a criminal
proceeding, affects the administration of justice, constitutes contempt of
court and is covered by the prohibition contained in section 5 of the
CTVN Act read with rule 6(f) of the CTVN Rules. The Government be
accordingly directed to take steps under section 20(3) of the CTVN Act to
prohibit the transmission or retransmission of such programmes and/or
broadcasts. 135. Mr.Chinoy then submitted that the legal position that a
media trial/pre-judgement during a pending criminal proceeding, would
constitute criminal contempt under sec 2(c)(ii) & (iii) of the CoC Act, is
well established by numerous judgements. This also constitutes a 117 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

criminal contempt under section 2(c)(iii) of the CoC Act. Reference was
made to the decision in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra) to canvass a proposition that the power conferred on the High
Court and the Supreme Court to see that the administration of justice is
not perverted, prejudiced, obstructed or interfered with is recognized in Articles 215 and 129 of the Constitution, respectively. He submitted that
the words "due course of justice" in section 2(c) or section 13 of the CoC
Act are wide enough and are not limited to a particular judicial
proceeding. Also, trial by newspaper comes in the category of acts which
interferes in the course of justice or due administration of justice. The
Court also recognized that presumption of innocence is held to be a
human right. 136. In the above context, reference was also made to the
decision of the Delhi High Court in Naveen Jindal vs. Zee Media
Corporation Ltd ,, reported in 2015 SCC Online Del 7810, to contend
that the Court considered and decided this precise question as to
whether these principles of interference with the administration of
justice were applicable even at the stage of a criminal investigation and
in a situation when there was no actual proceeding pending. The Court
referring to the decision in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra) and in Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma (supra) and to
earlier judgments of the Delhi and Kerala High Court concluded that
media trial conducted even at the stage of a preliminary enquiry by the
police, would constitute interference with the course of
justice/administration of justice. 137. It was next submitted that a reference by the respondents to
the decision of the Supreme Court in Destruction of Public Property (supra) and Common Cause, reported in (2018) 13 SCC 440, to contend
that the Court should not issue any directions, as prayed for, are
misplaced. It is pointed out that the petitioners do not seek that this 118 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Court regulate the media, as the case of the petitioners is that the Court
should clarify that rule 6(f) of the CTVN Rules covers within its scope
and ambit media trials and pre-judgement, both at the stage of police
investigation and during the pendency of proceedings. Such
clarification/exposition of the legal position is necessary in the facts of
the case. Submissions of Ms.Neela Gokhale on behalf of the petitioner "In
Pursuit of Justice" 138. It is submitted that the requirement of criminal contempt,
as defined in section 2 of the CoC Act, comprises of two relevant
elements in the present context : the first being that section 2(c)(ii) contemplating a publication which interferes or tends to interfere with
the due course of any "judicial proceeding" and the second being that section 2(c)(iii) contemplates a publication which interferes or tends to
interfere or obstruct the administration of justice "in any other manner".
It is submitted that section 3(2) of the CoC Act qualifies and explains
and/or is an exception to publication when there is no pendency of any
judicial proceeding. However, as far as section 2(c)(iii) , there is complete
absence of any qualification or explanation when it speaks of a contempt
covered by any publication of the nature as specified in the said
provision, as clear from the words "in any other manner" as used in the
provision. 139. According to the petitioner, the first position relates to
invocation of the CoC Act in respect of publication even in the absence
of pendency of a judicial proceeding as per the explanation to section
3(2) , to include only those proceedings wherein a challan has been filed
or any other cases where cognizance is taken. It is urged that judicial
proceedings must be said to have commenced when an FIR is filed. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Hence any obstruction during the course of the investigation by the
concerned police on account of irresponsible or misleading publication
should attract an action for criminal contempt. It is submitted that
investigation eventually forms the basis of cognizance leading to framing
of charges and the trial. It is submitted that publication which tends to
obstruct or mislead the process of investigation would vitiate the trial on
account of coerced witnesses, misleading publication and broadcast
confessions, tampered medical and forensic evidence etc. All this would
lead to violating due process as provided under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India mandating free and fair trial. It is submitted that
even the term "pendency of judicial proceeding" be viewed in its strictest
perspective. An FIR has to be reported to the area Magistrate under
section 157 of the Cr. P.C. Such dual object is to clothe the Magistrate
with the jurisdiction of monitoring the investigation. Thus, the pillar of
defence is that the pendency of judicial proceedings for the purpose of
the CcC Act commences from the stage of investigation. Any publication,
which obstructs the investigation in any manner gives rise to invocation
of the CoC Act. 140. On the second proposition, namely, in regard to the
invocation of the CoC Act, in the absence of pendency of any judicial
proceedings, it is submitted that section 2(c)(iii) gets attracted when any
publication is criminally contumacious and it obstructs the
administration of justice "in any other manner". Such words as used in
the said provision are inclusive. Hence such publication which obstructs
the administration of justice when the publisher is aware that the
proceedings are imminent would attract the CoC Act. 141. It is submitted that doctrine of imminent proceedings would
emanate from the law as laid down by the Supreme Court in A.K.Gopalan vs. Noordeen , reported in (1969) 2 SCC 734, in which the
Supreme Court has considered the factum of 'imminency of 120 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

proceedings', to be of material significance, when juxtaposed with the
ambit of the Fundamental Rights of the free speech concerning matters
which are either pending before the Court or when proceedings are
imminent. It was held that proceedings in the context of the CoC Act
would be required to be considered pending from such date whereafter
the proceedings against the accused would become imminent. It is
submitted that the Court propounded that contempt of court may be
committed by a person when he knows or had good reason to believe
that criminal proceedings are imminent. The test is whether the
circumstances in which the alleged contemnor makes statements are
such, that a person of ordinary prudence would be of opinion that
criminal proceedings would soon be launched. It is submitted that the
doctrine of imminent proceedings, as laid down in this decision has been
accepted in the subsequent decisions, namely, Sahara Real Estate
Corporation Ltd. (supra), State of Bihar vs. Shanker Lal Khirwal and
Anr , reported in 1960 SCC OnLine Pat 199, Sushil Sharma vs. the
State (Delhi Admin.) and Ors, reported in ILR (1997) 1 Delhi, Court on
its own motion vs. the Publisher, Times of India Chandigarh and
Ors., reported in 2013 SCC OnLine P&H 6997, Swatanter Kumar vs.
the Indian Express Ltd. and Ors., (2014) SCC OnLine Del. 210 and Devangana Kalita vs. Delhi Police , reported in 2020 SCC OnLine
Del.867. It is submitted that the doctrine of imminent proceedings
enunciated in A.K. Gopalan (supra) has also been commented in the
200th Law Commission Report. 141. Hence, an unnecessary, unwarranted, unscrupulous and
unprofessional reporting by the media would not be protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India and would fall in the
reasonable exception as provided in Article 19(2) of the Constitution and
would be covered within the ambit of the jurisdiction of this court under Article 215 read with sections 2(c)(iii) and 3(2) of the CoC Act. Referring
to section 3(2) of the CoC Act, it is submitted that the explanation clause 121 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

to any provision does not expand or limit the scope of any provision
unlike a proviso to a clause which qualifies the main provision. 142. It is next submitted that there is a difference between
criminal contempt as provided in the CoC Act, 1971 and the concept of
contempt inherently vested in the Supreme Court as also the High
Courts by virtue of Articles 129 and 215 of the Constitution of India. 143. It is lastly submitted that directing the Government to
regulate the media is bound to be counterproductive. The essence of Article 19(1) (a) will be lost. The existence of Article 19(2) is a sufficient
fetter on unrestricted use and abuse of Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution of India. It is submitted that there is a thin line between
free speech and unlawful activity which may lead to obstruction in the
administration of justice. Thus, the contours need to be defined. It is
hence urged that a line is required to be drawn by the Court and in such
cases by invoking the CoC Act. Submissions of Mr. Anil Singh, learned ASG on behalf of
UOI/Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 144. It is submitted that there is sufficient regulatory framework
in place for regulating electronic media which primarily consists of
"statutory regulation" and "self regulation". The statutory regulatory
framework is contained, inter-alia, in the CTVN Act and the Rules
framed thereunder read with the Up-linking and Down-linking
guidelines for the TV channels. It is submitted that compliance with the
Programme Code is mandatory. As regards self regulatory framework, it
is submitted that such framework in respect of news channels which
has been recognized and accepted by several judicial pronouncements
takes place through the News Broadcasters Association and the News
Broadcasting Federation. It is submitted that in addition to the above,
an aggrieved person has a right to approach the Courts and seek relief 122 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

in terms of defamation or affecting the administration of justice in the
contempt jurisdiction. It is submitted that the UOI has considered the
several authoritative pronouncements of the Supreme Court and has
voluntarily imposed a self restraint on itself in favour of the mechanism
of self- regulation. This, however, does not and cannot mean that the
UOI has abdicated its duty. The UOI has the power to regulate and
penalise violations of the Programme Code and has been exercising the
power to penalise the TV channels. TV Channels have even been
suspended in the past and multiple actions have been taken; as also,
advisories have been regularly issued by the Ministry. 145. It is submitted that such regulatory mechanism seeks to
penalise the actual broadcast and not a proposed broadcast, in
accordance with the dictum of the decision of Supreme Court in Sahara
India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra). This would also not mean that
the period during which a channel or programme is being telecast in
violation of the Programme Code is free to run the same subject only on
fear of admonishment in future. As held by the Courts, action can be
taken by the Authorised Officer under the CTVN Act, namely, by the
District Magistrate or the Police in terms of section 19 or by the higher
judiciary by way of contempt proceedings or proceedings seeking
injunction in case of defamation etc. It is submitted that to ensure that
the freedom of press is not fettered by the Government and media
continues to act as a pillar of democracy, the present system as evolved.
Hence, it is not as if the field is unregulated. The argument that the
field is unregulated is said to have been waived by the petitioners who
assert that there is an abdication of failure by the Government to
exercise its powers. Hence, there is no need for framing of guidelines or
regulations and the same has also been held by several judicial
pronouncements. 146. It is next submitted that there is no failure to exercise power 123 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

or any abdication of duty, as the UOI is acting in accordance with the
said mechanism identified and has not breached or abdicated any of its
duty. If the UOI is of the opinion that there are violations, which have
not been addressed or even otherwise, it may exercise its power. The
argument of abdication and failure fail to recognise two crucial and
significant aspects, namely, the aggrieved persons or affected persons
have till date not complained or made any protest that the broadcasts
have affected their rights and secondly, pre-censorship is not
permissible and hence, the Government acts on the basis of the actual
publication. A delicate balancing of the right of the media and press as
against the rights of the affected individuals is required to be brought
about. There cannot be a straight-jacket formula in such cases and each
case would be required to be tested on its own merits. A broad-brush
mechanism would impinge upon the freedom of the press and affect a
pillar of democracy. Hence, Courts have always guarded against over
regulation of the media but emphasized the need for a case to case
analysis. It is submitted that moreover the UOI although has dealt with
the issue as raised by the petitioners, however, the UOI has objection to
the maintainability of the petition on the ground that the petitioners are
not the aggrieved persons and hence they cannot approach the Court
and on this ground itself the petitions are liable to be dismissed. 147. It is submitted that the case of abdication of duty by the
Ministry is not a case pleaded in any Petition. In fact, all petitions
proceeded on the basis that there is a lack of statutory and/or
regulatory framework. This case of abdication has been urged in oral
arguments and the petitioners have sought to raise this ground in their
additional affidavits/rejoinder affidavits. Detailed submissions are made
on the statutory framework as contained in the CTVN Act and the Rules
thereunder as also in the Policy guidelines for Up-linking and
Downlinking TV channels in India. It is submitted that this statutory
mechanism has been recognized on multiple occasions as being a 124 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

sufficient statutory framework by the Courts including the Supreme
Court. It is submitted that it is the case of the UOI that the High Courts
and Supreme Court have wide powers under the law of contempt
jurisdiction as clarified in the decisions of the Supreme Court including
the judgment in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra). The
decision in the Supreme Court in A.K. Gopalan (supra) is referred to
contend that the Supreme Court has recognized that contempt
jurisdiction would be available even prior to filing of the challan or
chargesheet in a given case. It is submitted that although this judgment
was passed prior to the CoC Act being brought into force , the said
decision was duly considered in the decision of the Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra). It is submitted that the
UOI is only relying on the decision in A.K. Gopalan (supra) to show that
the Supreme Court has recognized that contempt powers are wide and
can be exercised even prior to filing of challan/charge sheet. Hence, any
acts which would affect the administration of justice can be prevented
by the High Courts and Supreme Court by exercising their inherent
powers of contempt jurisdiction as observed in paragraphs 33 and 34 in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra). 148. It is submitted that whilst any acts which would affect the
administration of justice can be prevented by the High Courts and the
Supreme Court by exercising their inherent powers of contempt
jurisdiction, the argument of the PIL petitioner to the effect that section
3(2) of the CoC Act must be declared to mean that it applies from the
stage of registration of FIR ought to be rejected. The said contention
completely negates and renders nugatory the 'Explanation' to section
3(2) of the CoC Act and hence, such an exercise would be impermissible.
It is thus contended that there is sufficient statutory legal framework in
place, which not only establishes the Programme Code and makes
broadcasts contrary thereto impermissible and illegal but several
mechanisms of enforcement for such wrongful broadcasts are also 125 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

provided for in addition to the self regulatory mechanism, the
importance of which has been upheld by the Supreme Court. To support
this submission, reliance is placed on the decision of Supreme Court in Destruction of Public and Private Properties (supra) and more
particularly to the observations as made in paragraph 30 to paragraph
32 of the decision recognizing a self- regulatory mechanism, namely, the
recommendations of the Committee of Shri. F. S. Nariman, Senior
Advocate approving the NBA model as a process that can be built upon
both at the broadcasting service provider level as well as the industry
level and recommended that the same be incorporated as guidelines
issued by the Supreme Court under Article 142 of the Constitution as
was done in Vishaka case. However, as observed in paragraph 33 of the
said decision, the Supreme Court left it to the appropriate authorities to
take effective steps for their implementation, as the Court was not
inclined to give any positive directions. In support of the submissions,
reference is also made to the order dated 29th October, 2014 passed by
the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in S. Sudin vs. Union of India
& Ors. , the decision of the Supreme Court in Common Cause (supra)
and the order dated 20th August, 2020 passed by the Division Bench of
Kerala High Court in Halvi K.S. vs. State of Kerala & Ors [WP(C)
No.16349 of 2020(S)]. 149. On the contention of the petitioners that guidelines be
framed, it is submitted that it is trite that in cases of a Legislative void,
the judiciary may frame guidelines in cases of violation of Fundamental
Rights, however, in the present case, there is no legislative void as also
held by several Courts including the Supreme Court. As regards the
issue of enforceability of the self- regulatory mechanism, it is submitted
that it is the area of concern which is being considered by the UOI. It is
submitted that the Ministry is also undertaking an exercise of proposing
certain amendments to the CTVN Act and a proposal in that regard was
prepared and placed in the public domain on 15th January 2020 inviting
objections and suggestions from various stakeholders. The UOI, in its 126 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

further limited affidavit filed before the Supreme Court in the case of
Firoz Iqbal Khan (supra), has expressly stated as under: 150. It is thus submitted that considering the observations of the
Supreme Court in paragraph 50 in Sahara India Real Estate
Corporation Ltd. (supra) and in case of Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas
Samiti vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. , reported in (2014) 5 SCC 530,
these PILs are not maintainable. 151. Referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in State of
Himachal Pradesh & ors. vs. Satpal Saini, reported in (2017) 11 SCC
42, it has been submitted that the High Courts cannot direct the State
to frame a law. Submissions of Mr.Kunal Tandon, learned Counsel on behalf of
Respondent no.7-Times Now. 152. It is submitted that the statutory regime presently in
operation can be traced out from the history as to how the relevant laws
and regulations have developed in respect of regulation of TV channels. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

It is submitted that in 1992, India saw advent of few foreign television
channels who started uplinking signals of these television channels from
territories outside India and the Cable Television Networks to use of
umbrella like satellite dish antennas, started downlinking those
channels into India. Thereafter there was haphazard mushrooming of
networks in India. On 29 September 1994 the Cable Television Networks
(Regulations) Ordinance was promulgated by the President of India as
also the Cable Television Networks (Regulations) Bill was introduced
before the Parliament. On 25 March 1995, the CTVN Act, was passed
and notified with a view to regulate the operation of cable television
networks in the country and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto. The CTVN Act was to regulate the operation of the
cable television networks and not the broadcasters. It is submitted that
in the year 1995, the Supreme Court in Cricket Association of Bengal (supra), observed that the airwaves which are used for the purposes of
telecom and broadcasting services, constitute public property and must
be utilized for advancing public good. It was also held that the airwaves
can be used for the purpose of broadcasting only when allowed to do so
by a statute or in accordance with the statute. In the year 1997, in
pursuance of the said judgment of the Supreme Court, the Government
of India decided to create two authorities namely, the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India ( hereafter the "TRAI" for short) and the
Broadcasting Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI). In the year 1997, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act (' TRAI Act ') was passed with a
view to regulate the telecommunication service which at the relevant
time was telecom service only. Section 2(1)(k) as it existed in 1997,
excluded broadcasting services. At the time when TRAI Act was passed,
the broadcasting industry was developing in such a way that there
seemed no immediate or urgent need for a legislation such as the TRAI
Act and till date no significant step towards the same has been
considered. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 153. In the year 2000, both the TRAI Act and the CTVN Act were
amended. In the TRAI Act , the amendment provided for creation of an
Appellate Tribunal, known as the Telecom Disputes Settlement and
Appellate Tribunal and further amended sections 2(1)(ea) -Licensor,
2(1)(j)-Service Provider and 2(1)(k)- Telecommunication Service, were
incorporated. In the definition of "telecommunication service", the
amendment allowed the Central Government to notify other services to
be Telecommunication Service including Broadcasting Services. The
CTVN Act was also amended with effect from 1 September 2000,
thereby adding the definition of "Authorized Officer" and cognizance of
offences to be taken upon a complaint by the Authorized Officer, and
most importantly amended sections 19 and 20 of the Act, allowing the
Authorized Officer/Central Government to prohibit transmission of
programmes and operation of the CTVN Act, channels in public interest
or in the event, the same was found to be not in conformity with the
programme/ advertisement code. It is submitted that another set of
amendments was carried out in the CTVN Act and most importantly the
contravention of Section 4A was made a cognizable offence. 154. It is submitted that on 9 January 2004 in exercise of powers
under proviso to Section 2(1)(k) of the TRAI Act, the broadcasting
services were notified to mean the telecommunication service, and
accordingly the powers to regulate distribution related activities of
broadcasting services, were given to the TRAI. In the year 2006, the
Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill of 2006 was promulgated,
however, the same was never passed by the Parliament. The Bill came to
replace both TRAI Act for the purposes of broadcasting and CTVN Act.
Again in the year 2006, the CTVN Rules including Rule 6 of the
Programme Code and Rule 7 of the Advertising Code, were substantially
amended and the Code for self regulation in advertising as adopted by
the Advertising Standard Council of India was given statutory
recognition by incorporation of Rule 7(9) in the 1994 Rules. In the year 129 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

2007, the CTVN Act was further amended and thereafter further
amended in the year 2011 to allow the transmission of programmes
through Digital Addressable Systems (DAS), and the powers to seize and
confiscate equipment, power to make rules were also amended, keeping
in view the changes in the technology from time to time. It is submitted
that keeping in view the aforesaid history and development of guidelines
in respect of content available on television channels, the safeguards
and powers available with various authorities and courts, can be divided
into three heads namely (1) Safeguards which would be (a)
Constitutional Safeguards, (b) Statutory Safeguards, and (c) Self
Regulatory Mechanism; (2) Pre Publication Injunction in case of
interference with the administration of justice; and (3) Pre Publication
Injunction in case of defamation. 155. It is submitted that in regard to the Constitutional
safeguards, the Constitution itself recognizes certain rights as basic to
the human rights and one of those rights is enunciated under Article
19(1)(a) -Freedom of Speech and Expression. This right is
curtailed/restricted solely on grounds available under Article 19(2). As
to how the right has been considered and interpreted, a reference is
made to the decisions of the Supreme Court in Romesh Thapar Vs. The
State of Madras (supra); Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. and Others (supra); Shreya Singhal (supra); and Anuradha Bhasin vs Union Of India ,
reported in (2020) 3 SCC 637 to contend that the freedom of speech and
expression lay at the foundation of all democratic organizations, that
press is ark/fourth pillar of the democracy, and importance of freedom
of speech and expression was necessary to tolerate unpopular views. 156. Referring to the judgment of the Supreme Court in R.K.
Anand (supra) and Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra),
it is submitted that despite certain excesses the Supreme Court clearly
held that it was not necessary to control or regulate the media in any 130 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

manner. It is observed that the norms to regulate the media and to raise
its professional standard must come from inside, thereby in a way
accepting the self regulation mechanism of the broadcasting industry.
Also power to the Court to injunct or postpone a publication was
available considering Article 129 and Article 215 of the Constitution of
India which was held to be wider than the definition of criminal
contempt under Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act. The
Supreme Court was considering the width of the postponement orders
and to balance the curtailment right under Article 19(2) with the
Constitutional protection under Article 21 namely of fair trial and
openness of trial, the Supreme Court propounded a principle of real and
substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice or
fairness of trial. It is submitted that the Supreme Court created
restrictions by reading Article 19(2) which contains the word 'in relation
to' 'contempt of court' in Article 19(1)(a) without referring to and/or
creation of principles like exceptional circumstances, balancing of rights,
real and substantial risk and neutralizing devices. The creation of such
principles is to ensure a balancing act between a right available under Article 19(1)(a) to the press and the right available to the general public
to know and openness of the trial, both under Article 19(1)(a) and Article 21. The Supreme Court did not simply exercise the curtailment available
under Article 19(2) , which it could have otherwise provided. 157. It is contended that there are statutory safeguards available
under the up-linking and down-linking guidelines of the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, which are in place
since July, 2000 and which have been continuously updated/amended
as per the requirement from time to time. The requirement of these
guidelines is in adherence to the programme and advertising code under
the CTVN Act and the Rules, and any failure can result in revocation of
the permission granted. It is submitted that the power to issue the up-
linking and down-linking guidelines can be traced in the decision of the 131 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Supreme Court in Cricket Association of Bengal (supra) which holds
that airwaves are public property and must be distributed in accordance
with the applicable statute and also referring to Section 4(1) of the
Indian Telegraph Act. Referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in
Total Telefilms Vs. Prasar Bharati [Petition 183(C) 2008], it is
contended that the permission granted under Section 4(1) of the Indian
Telegraph Act, is deemed to be a license under the said provision. 158. It is submitted that the CTVN Act and the Rules provide for
a sufficient safeguard considering the provisions of Sections 5 and 6 which prescribe the Programme Code and the Advertising Code
respectively. Rules 6 and 7 of the CTVN Rules are the relevant
provisions prescribing the Code required to be followed by the electronic
media. It is submitted that there are other sufficient powers available
under the CTVN Act. A reference in this regard is made to the
provisions of Section 20 of the CTVN Act. In regard to the self
regulatory mechanism, it is submitted that the same is accepted by the
Government of India since the year 1985, as evident from the
establishment of the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) in
the year 1985 which regulates advertising. It is submitted that ASCI is a
voluntary self regulation council like NBA (News Broadcasters
Association) and IBF (Indian Broadcasting Federation). The code for self
regulation in advertising was given statutory recognition referring to
Rule 7(9) of the CTVN Rules. In the similar manner, the self regulatory
guidelines have been created for news broadcasters and the authority
under the News Broadcasters Association, called the News Broadcasting
Standards Authority (NBSA), which regulates the news broadcasters and
the broadcasting contents, a 'Complaints Council' under the aegis of
Indian Broadcasting Federation which regulates all television channels
other than news. 159. This apart, there are remedies available under the law 132 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

namely pre-publication injunction in case of interference with the
administration of justice and in case of defamation. The relevant
Articles being Article 129 and 215 of the Constitution read with the CoC
Act. This submission is supported by referring to the decisions in Sushil Sharma (supra), and the judgment in Devangana Kalita vs.
Delhi Police, (WP Cri. 898 of 2020) also a reference is made to the
decisions in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (supra) and Shreya Singhal (supra). It is hence submitted that the Court has
refrained from passing any order to gag the media and formulated a
neutralizing device by issuing order directing not to issue any
communication, naming any accused or any witness till the charges, if
any, are framed and the trial is commenced, so as to protect the interest
of the persons involved in the criminal proceedings. It is thus submitted
that the injunction on pre- publication or postponement is available only
in exceptional circumstances. 160. In regard to an issue on defamation, it is submitted that the
decisions in Khushwant Singh vs. Maneka Gandhi , reported in AIR
2002 Delhi 58 and Shashi Tharoor vs. Arnab Goswami, [CS(OS)273 of
2017] are relevant. It is submitted that in both the judgments, the
principles culled out are (i) that there may be views and unpopular views
and people have a right to hold such view; (ii) that the publication must
be seen wholly and not in parts; (iii) that the publication must be seen
from a man of average thinking's point of view and not from a man of
conservative point of view. Also in Dr.Shashi Tharoor 's Case the Delhi
High Court has laid down the principle denying an injunction and
observed that (i) Freedom of expression excludes freedom of media and
constitutes one of the essential foundations of the democratic society,
which is restricted/curtailed by Article 19(2); (ii) There is a balance
between strike of competing rights; (iii) After considering the rule in
England for an injunction that the Court must be satisfied that it would
inevitably come to a conclusion that the publication was defamatory, the 133 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Court held that in India, the Courts have the power to pass pre-
publication injunction, if the two pronged tests of necessity and
proportionality are satisfied and there are no reasonable alternative
methods or measure are available to prevent the said risk; (iv) A public
figure additionally has to prove that the publication was precipitated by
malice; (v) The Court must take care that any order passed does not
result in a gag order or a super injunction; (vi) There is a need to
balance competing rights, which can be done only on a case to case
basis; and (vii) In a live debate or an interview, it is not possible to run a
disclaimer as no broadcaster can predict or know in advance what a
participant or an interviewer is going to state. 161. In regard to the question as to how the reporting by media
affects the investigation by the investigating authority, it is submitted
that like a law officer or a judge are unlikely to get affected by media
reporting, the same equally applies to an investigating agency, more so
as the investigating agency is fully bound by the procedures provided in
the Criminal Procedure Code . In regard to the influence of media
reporting on the mind of the witness, it is submitted that in most cases
witness is aware of his/her role in the investigation process and is made
aware that he/she has to state the truth as and when questioned by the
investigating authorities. It would also be right to presume that the
witness is also made aware of the consequences/safeguards provided in
law, in the event the witness refrains from the truth or turns hostile or
his/her credibility is questioned etc. It is therefore, difficult to state
whether media reporting on an ongoing investigation is capable of
influencing a witness or can influence his/her mind in the investigation
process. It is submitted that certain principles in relation to the
investigative journalism and trial by media are already in place, as
circulated by the Press council of India as well imbibed in the guidelines
issued by the News Broadcasting Standards Authority. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 162. It is submitted that raising pertinent issues in public
interest and questioning a process or apparent drawbacks in a process
by the media is only with the intent to highlight those issues and not to
malign or defame any person or entity, like any Police Officer or an
investigating officer. Seeking answers and clarifications to key issues in
the interest of the public, is the backbone of fearless journalism. It is
submitted that it is wrong to state that media reporting in an ongoing
investigation and is targeted to malign any officer or investigating
authority, although no doubt such reporting must take place within the
rights enunciated under Article 19(1)(a) and so that a particular
reporting steers clear of restrictions/curtailment provided under Article
19(2) or any law framed, which is in consonance with the curtailment
provided under Article 19(2). Submissions of Mr.Arvind Datar, learned Senior Counsel on behalf
of News Broadcasters Association (NBA) 163. Mr.Datar has made the following submissions on the core
issues which, according to him, arise for consideration. The same are as
under:- Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 164. In answering these questions, it is submitted that at present
there are robust, preventive, ameliorative as well as punitive remedies
available against adverse consequences of media coverage at any stage
of criminal proceedings - including at the pre-chargesheet stage which
consists of (i) statutory safeguards under the CTVN Act and the
Programme Code thereunder; (ii) Judicial remedies under the CoC Act; (iii) Judicial remedies under the inherent contempt jurisdiction of the
high courts and the Supreme Court of India; (iv) Judicial remedies
under the Common Law of Contempt; (v) Judicial remedies under the
Code of Civil Procedure , 1908; (vi) Remedies under the IPC and (vii)
Remedies under the Cr.P.C .; and (viii) Self-regulatory remedies. 165. It is thus submitted that it may not be necessary for this
Court to lay down any additional guidelines in this regard. However, an
opportunity be taken to clarify that the said remedies equally apply in
relation to pre-chargesheet and pre-trial criminal matters, thereby
providing much-needed precedent and guidance on the issue. 166. The broad propositions as canvassed on behalf of the NBA
are as under:- 167. It is thus not necessary for this Court to issue additional
substantive guidelines in relation to media coverage on criminal
investigation. It is submitted that this Court may consider to clarify and
lay down a law around the following issue:- 168. On behalf of the NBA, detailed submissions are made in
regard to existing legal framework as contained under the CTVN Act and 137 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

the CTVN Rules, to submit that a robust framework of statutory
mechanism under the CTVN Act 1995 and CTVN Rules exist. Under this
framework every channel should adhere to the Programme Code as
referred to in rule 6 and the relevant clauses being (a), (d), (f), (g), (i) and (k) may apply to scenarios where media coverage (or 'trial by media') may
have adverse consequences for ongoing criminal investigations. It is
submitted that significantly none of these provisions are restricted in
their application to any stage of the criminal justice process and they
will apply to cover coverage from the moment a FIR is registered on a
complaint or arrest, till conviction or appeal, as well as the stages before
and after this process. It is submitted that these prohibitions are not
without teeth and sufficient provisions are made under the CTVN Act, to
attract serious consequences for television channels. In this regard, a
reference is made to section 11 which is a power to seize equipment
used for operating cable television network. Section 16 provides for
punishment for contravention of the provisions of the CTVN Act. Section 19 provides for power to prohibit transmission of certain
programmes in public interest. It is submitted that the MI&B has
regularly enforced these provisions by issuance of advisories, warnings,
and orders. It is also submitted that there is no analogue in any other
sector of media where a regulatory violation attracts a wholesale
ban/blackout. Where such an order is issued, a television channel is
essentially asked to cease all operations and sever all sources of revenue
for a prescribed period. Hence, there is no regulatory or enforcement
vacuum from the point of view of the statutory framework. 169. It is next submitted that the regulatory framework is
supplemented by wide powers that courts possess to punish parties who
act in their contempt. Referring to section 2(c) of the CoC Act, which
defines criminal contempt, it is urged that the "Explanation" to section 3
of the CoC Act, clarifies that in relation to criminal matters, a judicial
proceeding is said to be pending: (i) where it relates to the commission of 138 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

an offence, when the charge-sheet or challan is filed, or when the court
issues summons or warrant, as the case may be, against the accused,
and (ii) in any other case, when the court takes cognizance of the matter
to which the proceeding relates. Although it is argued that the powers of
the Court under the CoC Act do not apply in relation to criminal matter
at a pre-chargesheet stage, however, such a view is erroneous, as it is
made clear by the text of the 'Explanation'. This definition only applies
in relation to conduct which may attract contempt under section 2(c)(ii) of the Act, which relates to judicial proceedings. As a whole, section 3 (and the Explanation thereto) has limited significance in relation to
defining the sweep of contempt under section 2(c) . To support such
contention, reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in Rachapudi Subba Rao vs. Advocate General, Andhra Pradesh ,
reported in (1981) 2 SCC 577, wherein the Supreme Court has observed
on the narrow scope of section 3 of the CoC Act to hold that the phrase
"the administration of justice in any other manner" used in section
2(c)(iii) has been substituted in section 3(1) by the narrower phrase "the
course of justice in connection with any civil or criminal proceeding
pending at the time of publication." It is submitted that no case can be
made out that this Explanation in any way applies to restrict the scope
of section 2(c)(iii) of the Act, which is significantly broader and relates to
the "administration of justice" as a whole, and that "administration of
justice" is a broad term which not only relates to the pending judicial
proceedings but to a wide spectrum of activities involved in the judicial
system. This has also been explained in paragraph 14 of the decision in Rachapudi Subba Rao (supra). 170. It is next submitted that "administration of justice" in section
2(c)(iii) , when interpreted purposively, must be understood to include
any matter which can affect the administration of justice at any stage of
the criminal process. Excessive publicity, leakage of evidence, and
vilifying coverage can affect public confidence in the judicial system even 139 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

at the earliest stages of the criminal process. Hence, it could not have
been the intent of Parliament that the CoC Act would only address
mischiefs arising subsequent to charge-sheet under this clause. This
rule of interpretation has been well-entrenched through several
decisions of the Supreme Court. In this context, reliance is placed on the
decision of the Supreme Court in Bengal Immunity Co. vs. State of
Bihar , reported in AIR 1955 SC 661, to canvass the principle of
interpretation required to be followed would be as laid down in Heydon's
case. It is submitted that applying this approach, it must be concluded
that "administration of justice" must be understood to include all
possible influences and threats which may pollute the stream of justice.
It would include conduct from the commission of the crime onwards. It
is hence submitted that even if pre-chargesheet stage matters would
not be pending judicial proceedings for the purposes of section 2(c)(ii) of
the CoC Act, they would be covered by the much broader and 'residuary'
clause, namely section 2(c)(iii) . As a result, the court would be
sufficiently empowered in its discretion under the CoC Act to initiate
criminal contempt where any conduct may affect "administration of
justice". This would equally apply in cases of adverse consequences of
excessive media coverage of pre-chargesheet criminal investigations. It is
submitted that as there is no direct authority on this point to the
knowledge of the respondent, this Court may consider laying down the
law in this regard. 171. It is next submitted that there are remedies under inherent
Contempt Jurisdiction of the high courts and the Supreme Court. The
powers of the high courts under Article 215 and under Articles 129 and 142 of the Supreme Court to punish for contempt cannot be in any
manner restricted by statute. Such powers are plenary in nature and
they occupy a different plane. In this context reliance is placed on the
decision of the Supreme Court in Pritam Pal vs. High Court of Madhya
Pradesh, reported in 1993 Supp (1) SCC 529, in which the Supreme 140 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Court taking a review of the several decisions, has held that power of the
Supreme Court and the high courts being the Courts of Record as
embodied under Articles 129 and 215 of the Constitution, respectively
cannot be restricted and trammelled by any ordinary legislation
including the provisions of the CoC Act and their inherent power is
elastic, unfettered and not subjected to any limit. 172. It is submitted that this principle in law, if applied to the
present case, it would be clear that such powers are sufficiently broad
for Courts, such as this Court to mould remedies to account for any
given situation which may adversely affect "administration of justice".
Also, in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra), the Supreme
Court affirmed the view that "the meaning of the words 'contempt of
court' in Article 129 and Article 215 is wider than the definition of
'criminal contempt' in section 2(c) of the CoC Act. 173. Referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in Supreme
Court Bar Association vs. Union of India , reported in (1998) 4 SCC
409, it is submitted that whenever an act adversely effects the
administration of justice or which tends to impede its course or tends to
shake public confidence in the judicial institutions, the CoC Act, which
provides a special jurisdiction, can be exercised although sparingly and
with caution. It is submitted that any alleged media trial would impugn
the administration of justice. The adverse or excessive coverage would
either be directly in relation to the Court proceedings or dehors Court
proceedings in relation to witnesses, victims, or evidence. In this
context, referring to the effect of selective disclosures and media
briefings by police, fair trial and the administration of justice, a
reference is made to the decision of the Delhi High Court in Devangana
Kalita (supra), to submit that the Court after considering the powers of
a high court under Article 215 of the Constitution, directed that no 141 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

further statements or communications naming any accused or any
witness be made "till the charges, if any, are framed and the trial is
commenced". A reference is also made to the decision of the Kerala High
Court in the case Jollyamma Joseph v. State of Kerala (Bail
Application No.5390 of 2020) to submit that such court considered the
issue on leakage of confessions and other police evidence and the effect
which it would have on the administration of justice. It is submitted that
these are cases where courts, comprehending that the conduct of the
police or media may compromise the pre-chargesheet criminal justice
process, took action under their inherent powers to protect the
administration of justice. It is thus submitted that the high courts and
the Supreme Court possess wide powers to take preventive as well as
punitive measures in exercise of contempt jurisdiction under the
Constitution. This would be without prejudice to the extant powers
available under the CoC Act and such powers may be exercised where
courts apprehend any interference with the administration of justice.
There is nothing to prevent these powers being extended to pre-
chargesheet matters in the context of criminal proceedings. 174. It is then submitted that adjunct to the breadth of the
inherent powers of the high courts and the Supreme Court, is its
subsumption of the common law of contempt. It is submitted that the
development of the common law of contempt demonstrates that this
facet is capable of being adapted effectively to prevent any threat or
potential threat to the administration of justice. There is now little doubt
that the common law supplements the powers under the CoC Act and
the broad inherent powers of the constitutional courts. What was
implicit is now explicit by the decision of the Supreme Court in Sahara
India Real Estate Corp. Ltd. (supra) which enunciates that Article
19(2) of the Constitution preserves the common law of contempt as
'existing law'. Even section 22 of the CoC Act provides that the CoC Act
is in addition to other existing laws on contempt. A reference is made to 142 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 Article 372 of the Constitution where the phrase "laws in force" was
interpreted to include the common law of England in e Director of
Rationing and Distribution vs. Corporation of Calcutta , reported in
AIR 1960 SC 1355. It is thus submitted that the common law of
contempt forms part of the jurisprudence, that the high courts or the
Supreme Court may draw upon in addressing any matter which may
affect the administration of justice. It is also clear from the examination
of development of the common law that it clearly confers powers upon
courts to address any matter that may affect the administration of
justice ~ including those at the preliminary stages of the criminal justice
process. In this context, a reference is made to the decision of the
Queen's Bench in Attorney General vs. News Group Newspapers Plc.,
reported in (1989) Q.B. 110, where the Court was asked to consider if
contempt, at common law, could only extend to "active proceedings" or
those that were imminent. It was held that the common law is not a
worn-out jurisprudence rendered incapable of further development by
the ever-increasing incursion of Parliamentary legislation. It is a lively
body of law capable of adaptation and expansion to meet fresh needs
calling for the exertion of the discipline of law. A reference is also made
to the decision of the Court of Appeal in Jet 2 Holidays Ltd. vs.
Hughes and Anr., reported in (2019) EWCA Civ 1858, where the Court
has held that it is well established that an act may be a contempt of
court even though carried out before proceedings have begun. 175. It is next submitted that the common law of contempt has
evolved to account for situations where there is prejudice or risk of
prejudice even prior to the existence of "active", "pending" or "imminent"
proceedings. It is asserted that the law of contempt is versatile and is
meant to be extended to cover even novel scenarios, and is not static.
Thus, the Court may clarify and lay down the law on this point in the
Indian context. Also, there are remedies under the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908. It is also submitted that courts, exercising 143 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

original/civil jurisdiction, are fully empowered to intervene where there
are concerns that media coverage of a criminal matter is causing
prejudice to the proceedings or to the parties, and it is fully open for a
court to grant injunctive or other relief to restrain publication of any
material which may prejudice any pending proceedings. In this context,
a reference is made to the decision of the of the Delhi High Court in Naveen Jindal (supra), where the Court has held that the power of the
high court to order a restrain on publication in the media would clearly
encompass the stage when the criminal case against the accused is at
the preliminary enquiry or investigation stage, as held by the Supreme
Court in Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma (supra). 176. It is submitted that there are also sufficient provisions
under the criminal law where the actions of any third-party, whether the
media or otherwise, transgress from being mere interference in the
criminal justice system to malicious conduct intended to cause
injury/harm. A reference in this regard is made to the provisions of sections 182 , 192 , 202 , 203 and 211 of the IPC, which are provisions
illustrative of punitive responses to scenarios where third parties tend to
pervert the course of criminal justice. These are the provisions which are
equally applicable to account for excesses by the media, or other third
parties, in relation to the coverage of criminal investigations or
proceedings. None of these provisions are restricted to applying to any
specific stage of the criminal justice process. As a result, they would
equally apply at the pre-chargesheet stage if the facts are made out. 177. In regard to the self regulatory remedies, it is submitted that
the news media is also subject to self-regulation under the authority of
the NBSA, the Chairperson of which is a retired judge of the Supreme
Court of India. The Chairperson is assisted by four eminent persons
with special knowledge in various fields, as well as four eminent editors 144 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

employed with broadcasters. The NBSA considers complaints against
Members and Associate Members for violations of the "Code of Ethics &
Broadcasting Standards" of the NBA. This Code enumerates several
fundamental principles to be followed by news channels including in
relation to impartiality and objectivity, neutrality, and safeguards to
ensure that violence and crime are not glorified. The Code is applicable
in all situations. It is submitted that since its establishment in 2008, the
NBSA has received total 3975 complaints, which includes complaints
received at the first level of redressal and complaints received at the
second level of redressal. NBSA has passed 106 orders/decisions. Fines
were issued in total 14 cases. Apologies were mandated in several cases.
In addition to proceedings commenced after complaints were received,
also suo motu proceedings were initiated by the NBSA in 9 cases. 178. In regard to the question that fine of Rs. One Lakh which
may be levied by the NBSA may not be adequate, it is submitted that the
fine is without prejudice to any other remedies that may lie against an
erring news channel. It is submitted that news channels found in
violation of the Code are required to display prominent apologies, which
occupy a large portion of the screen at prime time and would read aloud
serving as a robust deterrent as well as punitive measure to check
against media excesses. In actuality, the apologies not only hurt the
credibility of a channel but also have adverse commercial consequences
in that they last for at least one minute or more depending on the text
during a prime time telecast. 179. It is submitted that the Supreme Court bearing in mind the
balance of various interests, has approved the model of media self-
regulation and emphatically rejected a state-intervention mode. In Destruction of Public and Private Properties (supra), a three-judges
bench of the Court approved the conclusions of the Nariman Committee,
which recommended a self-regulatory approach for media regulation. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

The Court held that the recommendations of the Committee shall be
operative as guidelines. 180. It is thus submitted that where the Supreme Court as well
as the Central Government, has expressed a clear preference to the
model of self-regulation, it may not be appropriate for this Court to
revisit or disturb this status quo. In regard to the petitioners' contention
that there is need for issuance of guidelines by this Court, it is
submitted that the field of regulation vis-a-vis news channels is
occupied by several robust and overlapping frameworks to check against
and, if necessary, punish the abuse and hence, it is not appropriate for
this Court to provide additional substantive guidelines on this matter. It
is necessary that there is an effective balance that preserves the
cherished fundamental right to free speech and expression but prevents
its abuse, and checks the violation of the right to privacy and damage to
reputation of persons before and during any civil and criminal
proceedings is maintained. Any guidelines laid down may apply
regardless of whether the concerned news channel is a member of any
self-regulatory mechanism, and that efforts shall be taken to bring more
channels within the self-regulatory fold. It is submitted that this Court
may consider issuing directions, laying down the law, and providing
guidance on the following indicative matters:- 181. At the outset, it is submitted that the case of the petitioners
that guidelines be issued on media reporting from the stage of
registration of FIR till the filing of the charge-sheet, needs to be rejected.
Any such restriction on reporting by media, would tantamount to no
crime ever being reported and would amount to silencing of the press. It
would also infringe upon the pubic rights to be informed and would also
override and nullify rights of the victims and their families. This kind of 147 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

media control ought not to emanate from the facts of one case and
would not bode well for democracy. Such restrictions on the right of the
press are unprecedented and disproportionate in the facts of the present
case. It would be an anathema to the rule of law to state that there can
ever be restrictions or an embargo on reporting the truth or the
suppressed facts in a matter of public importance. If such blanket
protection is granted to the Government and its instrumentalities, it
would give rise to brazen abuse of power. The police would have
unbridled powers and stature would be protected from any legal
consequences. It may also lead to numerous crimes being brushed
under the carpet, tardy investigation and other chilling ramifications. It
is submitted that such control of media can only exist in an ideal State.
Illustratively incidences like custodial death, police brutality, misuse of
power and corruption, are realities faced by a common citizen everyday
which requires a vibrant and robust press. It is hence submitted that
the entire media cannot be silenced for the protection of a few people. If
at all, the line is crossed in reporting by any media organization, there
are enough remedies in law for the protection of the aggrieved party. 182. At the further outset in regard to the petitions filed by
Mahesh Narayan Singh & others and Nilesh Navlakha & others, it is
submitted that the petitioners have no locus standi to file these petitions
as they are neither accused persons nor aggrieved persons whose right
to fair trial have been allegedly curtailed in any manner by any
publications made by the media channels. To support these
submissions, reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in R&M Trust vs. Koramangla Residents Vigilance Group , reported in
(2005) 3 SCC 91). It is next submitted that these petitions have been
filed to curtail the freedom of press enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of
the Constitution of India and seeks a gag order against all media houses
from making any publications, which is impermissible in law. The
submission is that even citizens have a right to be informed about 148 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

matters of public and national interest. Also, the Supreme Court has
held that preventive relief of postponement of publication can be availed
only by any accused or any aggrieved person who apprehends that a
particular publication has real and substantial risk of prejudicing the
proper administration of justice or the fairness of his or her trial. This
more particularly when none of the petitioners are directly or indirectly
related to the cause the petitioners canvassed in the petitions, namely,
the death of an actor. Hence, applying the test as laid down by the
Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited (supra), the petitions ought not to be entertained. 183. It is submitted that even otherwise, no grounds have been
shown to justify that the restraint orders sought against the media
houses in relation to any publication concerning the unfortunate death
of the actor has not posed any real or substantial risk of prejudicing the
proper administration of justice or the fairness of trial against the
petitioners. The petitioners have alleged disputed questions of fact and
lack any exceptional circumstances warranting interference by this
Court. It is submitted that similar prayers have been sought in a
petition filed before the Supreme Court in Reepak Kansal vs. Union of
India [W.P. (C) No. 762 of 2020], wherein prayers are made to restrain
broadcasting news, debates and interfering in the administration of
justice. The Supreme Court has issued notice on the said petition on 7th
August 2020. In regard to the factual aspect, it is submitted that the
facts that have been unearthed by respondent No.8 in relation to the
demise of the actor and another person related to the film industry
which is due to the constant efforts of this respondent in 'investigative
journalism'. Such efforts have brought to light matters of grave concern
in the interest to the society at large. Even in the past, the Courts have
time and again recognized the legitimacy of instances wherein
investigative journalism has been pivotal to reveal issues which pertain
to a larger cause and serve public interest. It is submitted that the 149 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

respondent No.8 is a media house of a considerable repute in the media
fraternity, hence it has a responsibility to provide comprehensive and
objective information to the public. The debates, which are carried out
on the issue in question by the respondent No.8, are strictly in
conformity with the provisions of the CTVN Act and the Rules and such
broadcasts and debates are also in consonance with Programme Code
prescribed thereunder and do not violate any provisions of the CTVN Act
and the Rules. 184. It is next submitted that in carrying out its investigative
journalism, the respondent No.8 follows the norms of journalistic
conduct published by the Press Council of India (Edition 2010) which
lay down certain basic elements of investigative journalism, namely, it
has to be the work of the reporter, not of others; the subject should be of
public importance for the reader to know; and an attempt is being made
to hide truth from the people. 185. Submissions are made to contend as to how there was a
deficiency in the investigation being undertaken and an attempt on the
part of the State investigating agencies to interfere in the investigation
being undertaken by a Central Authority. It is submitted that even the
NCB has appreciated the efforts and cooperation of the media and has
stated that they had been unearthing a lot of information in the case. 186. In regard to the petitioners' allegation of violation of various
provisions of the CTVN Act and the Rules framed thereunder by the
respondent No.8, it is submitted that media reporting on the death of
the actor has been a long fight of more than 47 days for investigative
journalism by the media and that has unearthed a pile of evidence in
the case and the media has played a key role to use its skill in
investigative journalism to bring key testimonies, evidence,
corroborations and inconsistencies into the public domain. He 150 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

submitted that this has assisted the investigating agencies which is
publicly acknowledged. 187. It is submitted that given the alleged mis-handling of crucial
evidence right at the start of the case by the previous investigating
agency and the questions raised vis-à-vis the initial investigation, the
respondent No.8 believed that it is a duty of the media to contribute in
the fight for justice in the said case by uncovering the truth to the extent
possible and also assist the investigating agency in the process. 188. It is submitted that the tweets referred to on behalf of the
petitioners (page 123 in PIL filed by Mahesh Narayan Singh) were made
in the light of the incriminating evidence raising suspicion against one of
the accused, which was further enforced by the tardy investigation of
the local investigating agency and the fact that an FIR was registered by
such agency. The tweets are without mala fides and were made in good
faith and in the larger public interest. It is submitted that even the
reporting in the case of another person, connected with the film
industry, was done solely on the basis of post-mortem report filed in the
case. Also, a petition is pending before the Supreme Court seeking court
monitoring CBI probe in the death of such person. 189. It is submitted that the whole intention in such reporting
was to bring about correct facts in the eyes of the public and bringing to
justice the family of the victims who were running from pillar to post. In
such process, this respondent has not in any manner violated any
guidelines. Moreover, as a result of this reporting, ultimately on 25th
July 2020, Patna Police registered an FIR in the matter which was
subsequently transferred to the CBI after the orders were passed by the
Supreme Court. 190. It is submitted that the key issues sought to be canvassed 151 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

by the petitioners appear to be, a lack of a grievance redressal
mechanism in cases of media trial. In this regard, the respondent No.8
adopts the submissions made by the counsel for the News Broadcasters
Association (NBA) and reiterates that no judicial intervention is required
to issue guidelines for the electronic media as there exist a functional
self-regulation mechanism to deal with similar issues. In support of the
submission, reliance is placed on the decision in Vineet Narain vs.
Union of India , reported in (1998) 1 SCC 226; more particularly,
referring to the observations made in para 56, it is submitted that even
the Supreme Court has taken note of the need to have an investigative
journalism being of value to a free society. It is submitted that in a
democratic society, public must have access to the information which is
sought to be achieved by investigative journalism. The submission is
supported by referring to the decision in Maria Monica Susairaj vs. The
State of Maharashtra , reported in 2009 Cri LJ 2075. Also, reliance is
placed on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Court on its Own
Motion vs. State and Ors. , reported in 2008 (105) DRJ 557 (DB),
wherein the court has observed that even if investigative journalism
comes to an end, media has a role to play. It is submitted that before a
cause is instituted in a court of law or is otherwise not imminent, the
media has full play in the matter of legitimate investigative journalism.
This is in accord with the Constitutional principle of freedom of speech
and expression and is in consonance with the right and duty of the
media to raise issues of public concern and interest. Relying on the
decision in Rajendra Sail vs. M.P. High Court Bar Assn., reported in
(2005) 6 SCC 109, it is submitted that for rule of law and for an orderly
society, a free responsible press and independent judiciary are both
indispensable. The Supreme Court has recognized that the power and
reach of the media, both print as well as electronic, is tremendous and it
has to be exercised in the interest of pubic good, as a free press is one of
the very important pillars on which the foundation of rule of law and
democracy rests. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

SUBMISSIONS ON CONTEMPT OF COURTS ACT, 1971: 191. It is submitted that prior to the CoC Act, the position in law
was that as soon as a complaint was lodged in the police station and
investigation started, the matter became sub-judice attracting the
judicial power of the Court to punish for contempt (Reference is made in
this context to pages 64-65 of the 200th Report of Law Commission of
India). 192. It is submitted that during deliberations, which led to
framing of the CoC Act, a Governmental committee headed by the then
Solicitor General of India (the Sanyal Committee) made a report dated
28th February 1963. A legislative bill drafted by this Committee
underwent many changes and ultimately, when the bill was introduced
in the Rajya Sabha, a motion for reference to a Joint Committee of the
Houses was adopted on 27th November 1968. The Lok Sabha adopted
the motion on 14th December 1968. Another Joint Committee (the
Bargava Committee) made a detailed inquiry and submitted its report on
20th February 1970. 193. The Sanyal Committee had recommended contempt qua
"imminent proceedings". The Sanyal Committee (at Chapter VI, titled
'Contempt in relation to imminent proceedings') had observed as under:- Perhaps such a defence is already available to an alleged
 contemner, but we would prefer to give it statutory
 expression particularly as under English law, from which 153 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 our law of contempt is derived, lack of knowledge would
 not excuse a contempt though it may have a bearing on
 the punishment to be inflicted. We would also like to go a
 little further and provide for certain additional
 safeguards. It has been observed in several cases that
 once a person is arrested it would be legitimate to infer
 that proceedings are imminent. But in actual fact that
 result may not invariably follow. We have already said
 that it should be a valid defence for an alleged contemner
 to prove that he had no reasonable grounds for believing
 that a proceeding was imminent. To this we would like to
 add that where no arrest has been made a presumption
 should be drawn in favour of an alleged contemner that
 no proceedings are imminent." The Sanyal committee concluded as follows:- 194. It is submitted that the Bhargava Committee, however,
deleted the word "imminent" and replaced it with "actual pendency in
Court". It was stated as follows :- proceedings from the clause and sub-clause (1) has been
 suitably modified." 195. On this backdrop, referring to the provisions of section 2(c) (definition of criminal contempt), section 3 (Innocent publication and
distribution of matter not contempt) and section 13 (Contempts not
punishable in certain cases) of the CoC Act, following submissions are
made:- 196. It is submitted that the 200th report of the Law Commission
has become relevant which proposed amendments to the CoC Act. It is
submitted that Law Commission recommended the amendments to
section 3 of the CoC Act, inter-alia, by proposing the following
amendment to the Explanation to section 3 :- 197. It is submitted that, however, this Report of the Law
Commission was not accepted by the Government as is clear from the
following decision:- It would be a question of fact whether, in a particular case, the
investigation or the rights of the accused are being affected by the
publication by the media, by interfering or obstructing the course of
justice. In that eventuality, there are sufficient safeguards, statutory and
self-regulatory. It is submitted that the number of cases where the
media has played a positive role in the delivery of justice, including
investigative journalism, are beyond enumeration. It is next submitted
that 'investigative journalism' would entitle the media to ascertain the
facts and report on them. It is part of the fundamental duty of a
journalist to place facts in the public domain. The fact that the Supreme
Court and various High Courts, at times, refer cases to Special
Investigation Teams/Central Bureau of Investigation, etc. itself shows
that every investigation cannot be presumed to be fair and untainted. In
cases where there is a doubt as to the investigation, the media is entitled
to bring such facts in the public domain, without being asked 157 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

mandatorily to give information to the Investigating Officer/Police, as
that would be a self-defeating exercise. It is submitted that, on balance,
Police excesses and tainted investigation are far more dangerous than
reporting by the media. It is submitted that the existing guidelines and
statutory provisions balance the rights of the fair trial and freedom of
speech and expression. There are already pre-existing rights to seek
postponement orders of Court proceedings, contempt of Court
proceedings (if the course of justice is substantially interfered with),
apart from the right to seek injunction against publication in the print,
electronic and social media of pending investigation as well. It is
reiterated that guidelines as to the pre-trial stage were not framed by the
Supreme Court in the case of Sahara India Real Estate Corpn Ltd. (supra), though submissions were made to frame such guidelines. Even,
"normative guidelines" were not framed. The Supreme Court did not
frame guidelines for the pre-trial stage, providing, however, for
postponement orders qua reporting of certain phases of the trial. Such
postponement orders are to be for a short duration and only in cases of
real and substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of
justice or to the fairness of trial. Submissions on behalf of Respondent no.17 News Broadcasters
Federation 201. It is submitted that the National Broadcasters Federation
(NBF) is a private Association having the largest membership
organization of the news fraternity, and consists of various national and
regional news channels and current affairs broadcasters. It is submitted
that NBF serves as the most-democratic and largest congregation of
news broadcasters, representing the news broadcasting industry across
the length and breadth of the country. The NBF has presently more than
sixty members and is a single representative body which presents a
unified and credible voice before various regulatory authorities. The NBF
operates an independent self-regulatory body upholding the principles of
journalism and freedom of speech and expression called the NBF 158 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Professional News Broadcasting Standards Organization (self-regulatory)
(NBF-PNBSO). This body oversees fair reporting amongst its members.
The NBF-PNBSO would constitute nine members- one Chairman
appointed from a pool of retired judges of the Supreme Court of India,
four Editorial members and four eminent citizens. It is submitted that
the members of NBF, who are also a signatory to NBF-PNBSO, abide by
the broad framework on editorial guidelines and exercise restraint in
respect of issues which are akin to the issues as set out in the
Programme Code under the CTVN Rules. There is complaint redressal
mechanism which is available in case of any violation and the panel will
issue a warning including a channel to run an apology scroll specifying
the date and time, an action to be taken complied and reported back to
NBF-PNBSO within seven days of the order. In second/repeat or serious
violations would attract a financial penalty upto Rs.5 lakh. The third
violation by the channel/anchor would be penalized with a warning to
run an apology scroll for two days with specific date and time, removing
the anchor upto three months and/or a financial penalty upto Rs.10
lakh. As regards the regime of regulation, the case of NBF is not different
from the case of NBSA that already a robust statutory framework under
the CTVN Act and CTVN Rules is available alongwith the regulatory
framework. Hence, there is no need for this Court to issue any
guidelines. A reference in this regard is made to the decision of the
Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra) and
the decision in Common Cause (supra). 202. It is submitted that there is a robust self-regulatory
mechanism in existence, apart from a statutory framework which, inter-
alia, would be sufficient to balance the freedom under Article 19(1)(a). It
is submitted that self-regulation of the media has been found to exist
not only in India but in other liberal democracies around the world. Self-
regulation essentially combines standards and sets out appropriate
courses vital and necessary to support freedom of expression. Thus, self-
regulation preserves independence of the media and most importantly 159 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

protects it from Government interference, which a free media must
frequently criticize. It is submitted that the media's right and duty to
project exchange of idea and opinions is not only necessary in a
democracy, it would be entitled to the highest protection and freedom
from State interference. The media is entitled not only to embark on
investigative exercise as part of its duty to confer information to the
public but also to project its views as editorial decisions in respect of
events. The media has right to criticize and present their version of
events, even though the public or certain sections of it may not agree
with these views. It is seen that in the present case even otherwise,
many debates on the electronic media are live streamed, where views are
expressed by various panelists and many of these views may be
unpalatable to the Government and exercise of coercive rights over the
media would be highly detrimental. It is the duty of the media to report
against Government action/inaction including the role of investigation
agencies in various cases. In particular, instrumentalities of the State
are always open to criticism and comments by the media, including
investigation agencies. It is submitted that the CBI, which has been
entrusted with the investigation, has not complained of any interference
by the media. 203. By referring to the provisions of the CoC Act, it is submitted
that after its enactment the prior law that provided for the judicial power
to punish for contempt upon lodging of a complaint and commencement
of investigation was changed to pendency of a criminal proceeding upon
filing of the chargesheet or challan. The recommendation of the Sanyal
Committee that proceedings being "imminent" (i.e. before arrest) would
be the starting point for pendency was not accepted. It is only for
interference/obstruction in the course of justice for pending criminal
proceedings (upon filing of chargesheet or challan) that the CoC Act can
be attracted. There is a further safeguard in section 13 that contempt
should be of a nature that substantially interferes or tends to
substantially interfere with the due course of justice. Even the 200th 160 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Report of the Law Commission proposed amendment to section 3 to
substitute clause (B)(i), so as to include commission of an offence, when
a person is arrested or when the chargesheet or challan is filed or when
the Court issues summons or warrant, but it was not accepted by the
Government. Also, as seen from the decision of the Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corp. Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court did
not frame guidelines in particular for pre-trial stage, as in number of
cases the media has played a positive role in the delivery of justice,
including investigative journalism. Hence, the Supreme Court itself has
not framed guidelines for pre-trial stage providing however, for
postponement orders qua reporting of certain phases of the trial. It may
not be appropriate for the petitioner to pray for such blanket order. 204. The submissions of the parties having been noted, it is now
time for us to appreciate the same and to tread the path of adjudication. DISCUSSION/DECISION: 205. Prior to embarking on our onward journey to trace the
important legal questions that emerge and deserve to be addressed, we
deem it proper to dispose of the preliminary objection raised by the
media houses to the maintainability of PIL (ST) 1774 of 2020 and PIL
(ST) 92252 of 2020 in the Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction, as noted
above. According to them: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (iii) Preventive relief of postponement of publication may be availed
 of only by any accused or aggrieved person who apprehends
 that a particular publication has real and substantial risk of
 prejudicing the proper administration of justice or the fairness
 of his/her trial and the decision in Sahara India Real Estate
 Corpn. Ltd. (supra) has been relied on in this behalf; whereas,
 in the present case, none of the petitioners are directly or
 indirectly related to the case of unfortunate death of the actor; (iv)No grounds have been shown warranting passing of restraint
 orders referring to any publication, which could pose any real
 or substantial risk of prejudicing proper administration of
 justice or fairness of trial; (v) The High Court should entertain a public interest litigation only
 in a rare case where the public at large stand to suffer and not
 when it is instituted for serving private ends and professional
 rivalry, and in this regard the decision in R&M Trust (supra),
 has been relied on; (vi)The petitions allege "disputed questions of fact" and lack any
 exceptional circumstances warranting interference by this
 Court; and (vii) Similar prayers have been made in a petition filed before the
 Supreme Court being W.P. (Civil) No. 762 of 2020 [Reepak
 Kansal v. Union of India], including restraining the
 respondents in the said petition from broadcasting
 news/debates interfering in the administration of justice and
 notice has been issued to the respondents by an order dated
 August 7, 2020. 206. Although not vociferously urged but still a submission has
been advanced on behalf of the UOI, relying on the decision of the
Supreme Court in Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas Samiti (supra), that the
persons aggrieved could themselves approach the Court and no petition
in public interest ought to be entertained. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 207. None of the objections, in our considered view, has merit. 208. In Railway Board Vs. Chandrima Das , reported in (2000) 2
SCC 465, the Supreme Court was considering a civil appeal wherein an
order passed by the Calcutta High Court on a writ petition instituted by
an advocate in public interest was under challenge. A foreign national
was gangraped in a 'yatri niwas' at Howrah railway station and the
petitioning advocate had sought for diverse relief including
compensation for the victim. The High Court while making a slew of
directions, inter alia, granted Rs.10 lakh as compensation to be paid to
the victim by the Railway. The only question that the Supreme Court
was urged to consider was, whether the Railway could be made liable to
pay compensation to a victim and that too to a foreign national, without
the perpetrators of the crime being fastened with such liability. The
Court traced its earlier decisions on the distinction between 'public law
remedy' and 'private law remedy' and cases where compensation was
granted to victims of medical negligence and to the next of kin of under-
trials/accused suffering custodial death even on a petition under Article
32/226 of the Constitution. Ultimately, the objection that the petitioning
advocate had no locus standi to approach the High Court was overruled.
Certain passages from the decision throw light on the development of
law in India in relation to petitions instituted in public interest and we
consider it useful to reproduce the same for our guidance: 209. Based on our reading of the aforesaid decision, the locus of
the petitioners does not appear to us to be in doubt. There is a specific
challenge to the inaction and/or refusal of the MI&B to act under the
CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules as well as the Up-linking and Down-
linking guidelines in regard to the offending programmes. Orders have
also been prayed for to temporarily postpone news reports that
tantamount to a media trial or 'parallel investigation'. To what extent, if
at all, postponement orders can be issued is a matter concerning the
merits. We propose to examine these matters at a later part of this
judgment. However, we see little reason to hold that the writ petitions, in
its present form, are not maintainable. 210. Having read paragraph 49 of the decision in Jaipur Shahar
Hindu Vikas Samiti (supra), we have failed to comprehend as to how
the observations made therein would afford a ground not to address the
concerns expressed in these writ petitions. The interest that is sought to 164 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

be protected and/or the controversy or dispute sought to be resolved is
not open to adjudication by a mechanism created either under the CTVN
Act or any other statute and, thus, there is no question of relegating the
petitioners to such mechanism. 211. R&M Trust (supra) dealt with a belated petition, and that
too related to construction work. Much water has flown under the bridge
since the decision in R&M Trust (supra) was delivered. In present times,
it is not the law that litigation in public interest can only be instituted
for the welfare of the downtrodden. The Supreme Court in State of
Uttaranchal vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal , reported in (2010) 3 SCC 402,
has laid down broad guidelines for entertaining a public interest
litigation in paragraph 181 thereof. To the extent relevant, the same is
quoted below: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

The aforesaid passage provides a clear and complete picture in relation
to the points that a Court entertaining a 'Public Interest Litigation' ought
to bear in mind. 212. Contentions have been raised by the petitioners that the
media houses have crossed the 'Lakshman Rekha' while
reporting/discussing/debating the death of the actor, thereby violating
the Programme Code; thus, the adverse impact of alleged 'trial by media'
or parallel investigation by the media, while police investigation under
the Cr.P.C . is in progress, forms a part of the crux of these writ
petitions. Rather than seeking to curtail the 'Freedom of the Press'
guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution by obtaining a gag
order without cogent reason, the petitioners have urged a Constitutional
court to step in and set the wrong right in view of apathy of the
UOI/MI&B to control what the petitioners in the relevant writ petitions
allege is reckless and irresponsible reporting. We are of the firm opinion
that these writ petitions are aimed at redressal of genuine public harm
or public injury and involve substantial public interest; also, the same
are not at the instance of busybodies for extraneous or ulterior motives
warranting rejection of the claims without examining the same on
merits. Deriving guidance from the decision in Balwant Singh Chaufal (supra), we are inclined to the view expressed above in favour of not
rejecting the writ petitions on the ground that they are not maintainable. That apart, pendency of the writ petition of Reepak Kansal (supra)
before the Supreme Court does not in our view impede examination of
the concerns raised by the petitioners. It has not been shown that the
Supreme Court has passed any order that matters/petitions questioning
'media trials' shall only be heard by such Court and no other Court.
Refusal to address the concerns expressed would amount to failure on
our part to discharge our judicial duty. The objection, we are
constrained to observe, is one in desperation and merits outright
rejection. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 213. We, therefore, overrule the objections of the media houses to
the maintainability of the writ petitions making it clear that those of the
grounds urged in support of the objections to the maintainability thereof
touching upon the merits of the matter are not dealt with at this stage. THE QUESTIONS BEFORE THE COURT 214. Based on the pleadings, the exhibits forming part of the writ
petitions, the erudite arguments that we have heard from the Bar as well
as the authorities cited by learned counsel, we consider it appropriate,
first, to address the following important legal questions: judgment while a police investigation is in progress could
 lead to interference with/obstruction to "administration of
 justice", thereby constituting criminal contempt under the
 aforesaid section? 2. Is it necessary to construe "judicial proceedings" in section 3 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 to have commenced
 with registration of an FIR? Also, is it at all necessary to
 read section 3 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 in the
 manner the petitioner in PIL (St.) 2339 of 2020 urges us to
 read? 3. Whether media trial in respect of matters pending
 investigation of a criminal complaint, fall within the
 restrictions as contained in the Programme Code as
 postulated under section 5 of the Cable Television Networks
 (Regulation) Act, 1995 and the rules framed thereunder? 4. Whether the regime of self-regulation adopted by the news
 channels would have any sanctity within the statutory
 framework? Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 5. While emphasizing on the need to strike the right balance
 between freedom of speech and expression and fair
 investigation/right to fair trial, to what extent, if at all,
 should press/media reporting be regulated if the same
 interferes with or tends to interfere with, or obstructs or
 tends to obstruct, "administration of justice"? 215. Depending on the answers to these questions, we propose to
address the following incidental questions emerging from the pleaded
cases: - D. Should an order be made, on facts and in the circumstances,
 postponing reporting of events by the media in respect of
 investigation by the CBI into the FIR registered by it pursuant
 to the complaint of the actor's father? Also, is it necessary for
 the Court to suggest measures for regulating media coverage of 168 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 incidents such as the one under consideration to address the
 concerns expressed in these writ petitions? and, thereafter, record our conclusions in respect of the fate of each of
the writ petitions. GUIDING PRINCIPLES 216. The controversy before us lies in a narrow compass but
raises questions of contemporary importance touching upon the right of
the press/media to express views freely, the right of the deceased to be
treated with respect and dignity after death, the need to ensure
investigation of crime to proceed on the right track without being unduly
prejudiced/influenced by press/media reports based on "investigative
journalism", and the right of the accused to a free and fair trial as well
as the right not to be prejudged by the press/media. 217. Our discussion ought to commence acknowledging that the
right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is not merely a
right of speech and expression but a right to freedom of speech and
expression. Noticeably, reference to freedom is absent in enumeration of
the other rights in clauses (b) to (g). 218. In paragraph 32 of the decision in Indian Express
Newspapers (Bombay) Private Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court
highlighted the need to protect the 'Freedom of the Press', which is the
heart of social and political intercourse. 219. A passage from the decision of the Supreme Court in LIC vs.
Manubhai D. Shah (Prof. ), reported in (1992) 3 SCC 637, brings out the
flavour of the right to freedom of free speech and expression, so very
relevant in the present context. It reads: (underlining for emphasis by us) 220. The decision in Shreya Singhal (supra) also does not take a
view different from the one expressed in Indian Express Newspapers
(Bombay) Private Ltd. (supra) and LIC vs. Manubhai D. Shah (Prof. ) 170 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

(supra), while dealing with an important and far-reaching question
relatable primarily to the Fundamental Right of freedom of speech and
expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. In Shreya Singhal (supra), section 66A of the Information Technology Act,
2000 was subjected to challenge on the ground of constitutional
invalidity. Section 66A was struck down in its entirety being violative of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. 221. Despite the right under Article 19(1)(a) having been
conferred by the people of the nation upon its citizens to ensure that by
its proper and wise exercise the people grow and mature to become
responsible and informed citizens, conscious of their rights and duties to
others, misuse or mal-exercise of such right for inappropriate reasons
has not gone unnoticed. What resonates in our ears now is whether the
right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) is the most abused right in
recent times. To us, it does appear so. It is a reminder of what has at
times been the unsavoury past of the press/media in India crossing the
proverbial 'Lakshman Rekha'. 222. The Andhra Pradesh High Court in Labour Liberation
Front vs. State of Andhra Pradesh , reported in 2005 (1) ALT 740, had
the occasion to lament as follows: (underlining for emphasis by us) 171 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 223. We are also reminded at this stage of the extra-judicial
writing of Lord Denning, MR in 'The Road to Justice': 224. The pleaded cases in the writ petitions seek to depict the
situation as distressing. The principal question which we have been
urged to answer is relatable to corrective action needed for the rule of
law ~ a foundational feature of our Constitution ~ to prevail, and
whether guidelines to that effect ought to be given by us to guide the
means for achieving the ultimate end, i.e., justice to and for all. 225. There can be no two opinions that in a society governed by
the rule of law, no price is too high to maintain the purity of
administration of justice; and, as a Constitutional court, we have the
power, nay the duty, to protect not only the Fundamental Rights of the
citizens as well as the press/media in the judicious exercise of our
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution but also to secure that
the stream of administration of justice flows unsullied and unpolluted,
uninfluenced by extraneous considerations. Our thought process while
answering the questions that have emerged would centre round the said
premise. 226. 'Freedom of speech and expression' guaranteed by Article
19(1)(a) of the Constitution is said to be the life blood of our democracy.
The Supreme Court in its several judgments has recognized the
importance of such right both from the points of view of liberty of the
individual and the democratic form of our Government. This right
ensures free flow of opinions and ideas essential to sustain the collective
life of the citizenry. It is equally well acknowledged that 'Freedom of the
Press' is basically the freedom of the individuals to express themselves 172 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

through the press/media. However, the expansive and sweeping ambit
of such freedom notwithstanding, the right to freedom of speech and
expression like all other rights in the Constitution is also not absolute; it
is subject to imposition of reasonable restrictions. The restrictions that
can be imposed by law, as Article 19(2) ordains, ought to be reasonable
in the sense that any law abridging such right, if it relates to any matter
specified in clause (2), viz., inter alia, relating to contempt of court and
defamation, must pass Constitutional muster. 227. The Supreme Court in In Re: Harijai Singh & Anr, reported
in (1996) 6 SCC 466, sounded caution in the following words: (italics in original) 228. Notwithstanding that freedom of speech is the bulwark of a
democratic government and the role of the press/media to discover the
truth and to ensure proper functioning of the democratic process is
undoubtedly salutary, at the same time, the press/media must
remember that its concern for discovery of truth and maintenance of
purity in all streams of good governance by opening up channels of free
discussion of issues should stop short of exceeding the permissible legal
and Constitutional means. Since here we are majorly concerned with
"administration of justice", any report of the press/media, having the
propensity of tilting the balance against fair and impartial
"administration of justice", could make a mockery of the justice delivery
system rendering 'truth' a casualty. The duty of the press/media to have
news items printed/telecast based on true and correct version relating
to incidents worth reporting accurately and without any
distortion/embellishment as well as without taking sides, cannot
therefore be overemphasized. 229. Keeping the above guiding principles in mind and with these
prefatory words, we proceed to address the questions seriatim. QUESTIONS 1 & 2 230. These questions are taken up for consideration together
since they are inter-related. 231. Prior to delving deep into it, a quick look at how the law of
contempt has developed over the years may not be inapt. 232. In India, the Contempt of Courts Acts, 1926 and 1952 are
enactments preceding the CoC Act. Neither the 1926 Act nor the 1952
Act defined what 'contempt' is. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 233. One of the decisions in this country of a vintage era on the
law of contempt could be the one in Anantalal Singha vs. Alfred Henry
Watson, reported in ILR 1931 (58) Calcutta 884, Hon'ble Rankin, C.J.,
observed that the jurisdiction in contempt is not to be invoked unless
there is real prejudice which can be regarded as a substantial
interference with the due course of justice, and the purpose of the
court's action being practical it is reasonably clear on the authorities
that the court will not exercise its jurisdiction upon a mere question of
propriety. 234. Soon after the 1952 Act was enacted, in Rizwan-ul-Hasan
vs. State of U.P. , reported in AIR 1953 SC 185, the Supreme Court
while referring to Anantalal Singha (supra), observed on the different
sorts of contempt known to law as follows : (underlining for emphasis by us) 235. Hon'ble K. Subba Rao, J. in his dissenting opinion in Saibal

Kumar Gupta (supra) had the occasion to trace the law of contempt

while observing as follows: (underlining for emphasis by us) 236. In P.C. Sen, In re, reported in AIR 1970 SC 1821, the
Supreme Court was seized of an appeal carried from an order of the
Calcutta High Court by none other than the Chief Minister of West
Bengal, whereby he was held guilty of contempt and his conduct was
disapproved. On the law of contempt, this is what the Court held: If, therefore, the speech which was broadcast by the Chief 177 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 Minister was calculated to interfere with the course of justice,
 it was liable to be declared a contempt of the Court even
 assuming that he had not intended thereby to interfere with
 the due course of justice. ***" 237. The Court, in upholding the order under challenge,
distinguished the majority view expressed by Hon'ble Imam, J. in Saibal
Kumar Gupta (supra). The argument of counsel that intention is the
decisive test was overruled by holding that the sentence referred to by
His Lordship in the judgment of the majority did not imply that if there
were no intention to interfere with the course of justice no punishment
could be ordered. 238. In A.K. Gopalan (supra), two questions arose for decision of
the Supreme Court: (1) whether on the day when the appellant, A.K.
Gopalan, made the statements complained of or when it was published
in 'Deshabhimani' any proceedings in a court could be said to be
imminent; and (2) whether this statement amounts to contempt of court.
The majority held that the appellant A.K. Gopalan was not guilty of
contempt since no proceedings were imminent and allowed his appeal.
However, the appeal of the other appellant, P. Govinda Pillai, was
dismissed on the ground that the offending statements came to be
published after the arrest of an accused. It would be profitable to extract
a passage from the said decision , reading thus: The majority view of Hon'ble S.M. Sikri, J. as well as the minority view
penned by Hon'ble G.K. Mitter, J. would unmistakably reveal that
publication of material which could prejudice a cause being heard at a
time when judicial proceedings were imminent was considered a factor
to commit for contempt. This is plainly evident from a sentence
appearing in the minority view to the effect that "the consensus of
authorities both in England and in India is that contempt of court may be
committed by any one making a comment or publication of the
exceptionable type if he knows or has reason to believe that proceedings
in court though not actually begun are imminent". It would not be out of
place to note that at the relevant time in the United Kingdom, for
avoiding a substantial risk of prejudice to the administration of justice
in proceedings that were pending or imminent, orders could be passed
directing that publication be postponed. 239. However, the aforesaid decision in A.K. Gopalan (supra),
being a decision prior to the legislature defining the words 'contempt of
court', which came to be defined for the first time in clause (a) of section
2 of the CoC Act, with further meaning provided by clauses (b) and (c),
and "judicial proceedings" being explained in section 3 to mean
proceedings that are pending and not which are imminent as well as the
non-obstante clause in sub-section (2) of section 3 , in our humble view,
it may have lost relevance by reason of such subsequent enactment. It
would be profitable at this stage to read what sections 2 and 3 , to the
extent relevant, provide: "3. Innocent publication and distribution of matter not
contempt.-- (1) A person shall not be guilty of contempt of
court on the ground that he has published (whether by words,
spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations, or
otherwise) any matter which interferes or tends to interfere
with, or obstructs or tends to obstruct, the course of justice in
connection with any civil or criminal proceeding pending at the
time of publication, if at that time he had no reasonable
grounds for believing that the proceeding was pending.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Act or any other law for the time being in force, the publication
of any such matter as is mentioned in sub-section (1) in
connection with any civil or criminal proceeding which is not
pending at the time of publication shall not be deemed to
constitute contempt of court. (3) A person shall not be guilty of contempt of court on the
ground that he has distributed a publication containing any
such matter as is mentioned in sub-section (1), if at the time of
distribution he had no reasonable grounds for believing that it
contained or was likely to contain any such matter as aforesaid
: Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, a judicial
proceeding-- (a) is said to be pending-- (A) in the case of a civil proceeding, when it is instituted by the 180 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 filing of a plaint or otherwise. (B) in the case of a criminal proceeding under the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1898 (5 of 1898), or any other law-- (i) where it relates to the commission of an offence, when the
 charge-sheet or challan is filed, or when the court issues
 summons or warrant, as the case may be, against the
 accused, and (ii) in any other case, when the court takes cognizance of the
 matter to which the proceeding relates, and
 in the case of a civil or criminal proceeding, shall be deemed to
 continue to be pending until it is heard and finally decided,
 that is to say, in a case where an appeal or revision is
 competent, until the appeal or revision is heard and finally
 decided or, where no appeal or revision is preferred, until the
 period of limitation prescribed for such appeal or revision has
 expired; (b) which has been heard and finally decided shall not be
 deemed to be pending merely by reason of the fact that
 proceedings for the execution of the decree, order or sentence
 passed therein are pending." 240. In our view, for understanding the expression
"administration of justice" in section 2(c)(iii) , the expression following the
same, i.e., "in any other manner" calls for a proper construction first.
The concept of contempt under clause (iii) of section 2(c) , in its very
nature, seems to be open-ended as distinguished from the concept of
contempt embodied in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) which refer to specific acts
[viz. acts scandalizing or lowering the authority of a court and acts
prejudicing or interfering with due course of a judicial proceeding,
respectively] that could amount to criminal contempt. Sub-clause (iii) by
using the expression "in any other manner" intends to encompass cases
not covered in express terms by its immediately preceding sub-clauses,
i.e., (i) and (ii). It is, therefore, of a residuary character taking within its
coverage acts of contempt not attracting clauses (i) and (ii). It is of
immense significance that clause (iii) does not refer to either "authority
of any court" or "due course of any judicial proceeding" but to
"administration of justice". When we consider "administration of justice" and/or "due course of any judicial proceeding". Although there is no
precise definition of "administration of justice", it could be defined as the
means to secure, according to law, what is just. It is obvious that
"administration of justice", in the context of criminal contempt as defined
in the CoC Act, has a much wider overtone than either "authority of any
court" or "due course of any judicial proceeding". The legislature in its
wisdom did not refer to "due course of any judicial proceeding" in sub-
clause (iii) but designedly used "administration of justice", which may
include as its facet "due course of any judicial proceeding", to distinguish
sub-clause (ii) from sub-clause (iii) and to give a wider scope to the latter
with the result that any publication or act interfering with or tending to
interfere with/obstructing or tending to obstruct "administration of
justice" in a manner other than what is referred to in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) could amount to contempt, i.e., criminal contempt, within the
meaning of section 2(c)(iii) . 241. Further, the expression "administration of justice" in section
2(c)(iii) of the CoC Act is sufficiently broad to include civil as well as
criminal justice. The stage from which "administration of justice" 242. While one cannot ignore that but for the media's
intervention the criminals in the Priyadarshini Mattoo case, the Jessica 182 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 Lal case, the Nitish Katara case and the Bijal Joshi case could have
escaped unpunished, overzealous "investigative journalism" in cases
that are sensitive and are capable of arousing interest among the
masses has led to comments/observations on the nature and the
contours thereof which may qualify as instances of interference
with/obstruction to "administration of justice", calling for judicial
scrutiny. Having said so, we are also of the opinion that since the CoC
Act does not provide a guideline on what constitutes interference
with/obstructing "administration of justice", it is not advisable to spell
out any strait-jacket formula which can be applied universally to all
cases without variation. Having regard to the peculiar fact situation of
every case coming before it, the Court may in its discretion apply the
common law doctrine of justice, equity and good conscience without,
however, losing sight that the jurisdiction under section 2(c) is one of
discretion calling for exercise of authority with due care and caution and
sparingly, only in appropriate cases. 243. Does "administration of justice", which necessarily includes
the power to try civil and criminal proceedings by courts, also include
actions/steps that the relevant statute requires to be taken for securing
criminal justice even before the matter reaches the criminal court? This,
in turn, would give rise to a further question, when does "administration
of justice" on the criminal side begin? 244. The scheme of the Cr.P.C . for securing justice to a victim of
a criminal offence contemplates, having regard to the nature of offence
and the forum that is approached, an investigation or an inquiry,
followed by a trial and eventually the verdict of the court. According to section 2(h) , "investigation" includes all the proceedings thereunder for
the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer or by any person
(other than a Magistrate) who is authorized by a Magistrate in this
behalf. Investigation, which is a normal preliminary to an accused being 183 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

put up for trial for a cognizable offence, comprises of different steps. We
can do no better than reproduce a passage from the decision of the
Supreme Court in H.N. Rishbud vs. State of Delhi , reported in AIR
1955 SC 196, reading as follows: 245. The starting point of the process for free flow of justice after
a crime has been committed, is the information to that effect being given
to the police which is usually reduced in writing and results in
registration of an FIR. Although an FIR need not record in minute details
the version of the informant as to the crime, the place of occurrence, the
persons who witnessed the crime, etc., it would serve the course of
justice better if the FIR were to contain such details for assisting in
investigation of the crime since its primary aim is to detect crime, collect
evidence and bring criminals to speedy justice. The underlying principle
of "administration of justice" qua the criminal justice system is that the
alleged criminal should be placed on trial as soon after the commission
of crime as circumstances of the case would permit [see: Macherla
Hanumantha Rao vs. State of Andhra Pradesh , reported in AIR 1957
SC 927]. 246. Apart from the law of contempt engrafted in the CoC Act,
restrictions that can validly be imposed by law as authorized by Article
19(2) of the Constitution would also include the provisions in Articles 184 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

129 and 215 thereof conferring power on the Supreme Court and the
high courts to punish for contempt. Dealing with the provision in Article
19(2) of the Constitution vis-à-vis the powers of the Supreme Court and
the high courts under Articles 129 and 215 thereof respectively, the
Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra) said
that: (underlining for emphasis by us) 247. Human life is not mere biological existence. When we
conceive of the basic rights guaranteed to a person, we cannot shut our
eyes to the jurisprudential concept of certain minimum natural rights
which are inherent in the human existence. These are categories of basic
human rights well recognized in all major political philosophies. They
are also recognized in the Constitution, in the present context Articles
14 , 20 and 21. In Golak Nath vs. State of Punjab , reported in AIR
1967 SC 1643, the Supreme Court held that the Fundamental Rights
are the modern name, for what has been traditionally known as natural
rights. Such rights have a distinct existence independent of the
Constitution and a significant sanctity than the law made by the
legislature. These are basic inalienable rights which are inherent in free
and civilized human beings, derived from a concept called the natural
law. A person cannot be dehumanized, disreputed, vilified and maligned
qua his societal existence at the hands of the media in an attempt to 185 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

sensationalize any crime which is under investigation. We do not see
how in a civilized society such rights so personal can in any manner be
tinkered with and/or attacked by any media in the garb and label of its
free speech and expression, so as to nullify a right to a free and fair trial. 248. Resting on the authorities referred to above and as a sequel
to our aforesaid discussion, we hold that any act done or publication
made which is presumed by the appropriate court (having power to
punish for contempt) to cause prejudice to mankind and affect a fair
investigation of crime as well as a fair trial of the accused, being
essential steps for "administration of justice", could attract sub-clause (iii) of section 2(c) of the CoC Act depending upon the circumstances and
be dealt with in accordance with law. 249. In Baradakanta Mishra v. The Registrar of Orissa High Court, reported in AIR 1974 SC 710, the Court noted that it had not
been referred to any comprehensive definition of the expression
"administration of justice"; but thereafter, the Court proceeded to
express that historically, and in the minds of the people, administration
of justice is exclusively associated with the Courts of justice
constitutionally established. This expression is without doubt bearing in
mind the context that was present before the Court. Such context is
completely at variance from the context with which we are concerned.
However, having regard to the rapid strides in development of the law
over the years qua the duty different branches of the executive owe to
the people to secure justice within its respective sphere of activity and in
the context in which the expression "administration of justice" has been
used in section 2(c)(iii) of the CoC Act, as fully explained hereinbefore,
we are loath to construe the expression "administration of justice" in a
narrow and constrictive manner. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 250. Next, we take up section 3 of the CoC Act for consideration
since this provision is at the heart of question no.2. 251. A bare reading of section 3 would reveal circumstances
when publication or distribution of matters, which are otherwise
contemptuous, would not amount to criminal contempt of court subject
to the conditions laid down therein being fulfilled. In other words, the
said provision provides an exception to criminal contempt as defined in section 2(c)(ii) . While we have noticed above that section 2(c)(iii) covers a
wider area than section 2(c)(ii) , we also notice the first two sub-sections
of section 3 to directly refer to pending (civil or criminal) proceedings
and the third sub-section to be relatable to a pending proceeding by
reason of reference therein to "any such matter as is mentioned in sub-
section (1)"; and also that the expression "administration of justice in any
other manner", as in section 2(c)(iii) , is not used in section 3(1) where the
narrower expression "the course of justice in connection with any civil or
criminal proceeding at the time of publication" has been used. Having so
noticed, we are of the firm view that section 3 engrafts an exception to section 2(c)(ii) and not to 2(c)(iii). We reiterate, section 3 is all about
when does publication and distribution of matters, contemptuous in
nature, during pendency of civil or criminal proceeding may not amount
to contempt as in section 2(c)(ii) , and can be raised as a defence in rare
cases of criminal contempt covered by section 2(c)(iii) . The above view we
have taken finds support from the decision of the Supreme Court in Rachapudi Subba Rao (supra). 252. An observation of the Supreme Court in the decision in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra), on consideration of A.K.
Gopalan (supra), needs to be noticed immediately and considered by us
because of the submissions made by Ms. Gokhale. The Court said : 253. In our view, the Court merely noticed what had been laid
down in A.K. Gopalan (supra) but did not endorse that it continues to
be the law in present times. We say so, with the utmost respect at our
command, that the aforesaid extract cannot be read as laying down of a
law by the Supreme Court in relation to prohibition that could be
ordered qua statements in the media made at a time when proceedings
in a subordinate court are imminent or where the suspect is arrested. When A.K. Gopalan (supra) was decided, what would constitute
'contempt' was not defined. There being a clear definition of 'contempt'
in the CoC Act, reading "criminal proceedings" in section 3 to commence
with registration of an FIR, as suggested by Ms. Gokhale based on her
reading of A.K. Gopalan (supra), would amount to rewriting of the
statute which is impermissible. 254. Significantly, the petitioner represented by Ms. Gokhale has
not challenged the constitutional validity of section 3 of the CoC Act in
its writ petition, yet, it urges the Court to read down such provision in
support of the proposition that criminal proceedings must be said to
have commenced even when an FIR is filed and there is obstruction
during the course of the investigation by the concerned police on
account of irresponsible and misleading publication. 255. When the vires of the provision of an enactment is
challenged, there is a presumption as to its validity. If at all the Court
finds the provision to be ultra vires the Constitution or the enactment
itself, the primary task of the Court ought to be to save the provision
from being declared ultra vires if such provision can be 'read down'.
However, in the absence of a challenge to the vires of the provision in
section 3 of the CoC Act, the parties have never been at issue on its
validity. In such a case, the Court cannot on its own examine whether 188 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

the impugned provision is ultra vires and whether it is required to be
saved by taking recourse to the doctrine of 'reading down'. We may
usefully refer to a passage from the decision of the Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan vs. Sanyam Lodha , reported in (2011) 13 SCC 262,
wherein it has been held as follows: 256. In any event, it is no longer res integra that the provisions
relating to criminal contempt are intra vires Article 19(2) of the
Constitution [see: Arundhati Roy, In Re, reported in (2002) 3 SCC 343]. 257. Regard being had to our understanding of section 2(c) of the
CoC Act, as extensively discussed supra, we do not see any reason or
ground to hold that a literal reading of section 3 produces absurd
results or that there is any warrant for reading the explanation provided
by the expression "judicial proceedings" [which is provided only for the
purposes of section 3 to pending criminal proceedings] to include the
stage commencing from registration of an FIR. Also, the window kept
open by sub-section (1) of section 3 for an alleged contemnor to take the
defence that he had no reasonable ground to believe that a proceeding is
pending and proving it to the satisfaction of the Court for escaping the
rigours of contempt does not require judicial interdiction. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 258. Question no.1 is, thus, answered in terms of our
discussions as above. Question no.2 is, however, answered in the
negative. 259. The haphazard mushrooming of the cable television network
as a result of availability of signals of foreign television networks via
satellite communication, necessitated the Parliament to promulgate "the
Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Ordinance" on September 29,
1994 which was later on replaced as an Act of the Parliament being the
CTVN Act. The preamble of the CTVN Act records that it is "an Act to
regulate the operation of cable television networks in the country and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto". The statement of
objects and reasons of the CTVN Act is required to be noted, which
reads thus:- 260. The CTVN Act was brought into force on September 29,
1994. There are substantial amendments to such enactment in 2003
and 2011. To appreciate the issues involved, some definitions under the
CTVN Act are required to be noted which are as under:- Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (d) "company" means a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
 1956); (e) "person" means- (i) an individual who is a citizen of India; (ii) an association of individuals or body of
 individuals, whether incorporated or not, whose
 members are citizens of India; (iii) a company in which not less than fifty-one
 per cent of the paid-up share capital is held by
 the
 citizens of India; (f) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made
 under this Act; (g) " programme" means any television
 broadcast and includes- (i) exhibition of films, features, dramas,
 advertisements and serials; (ii) any audio or visual or audio-visual live
 performance or presentation,
 and the expression "programming service" shall be construed accordingly; (gi) .. .. .. .. .. . (h) "registering authority" means such
 authority as the Central Government may, by
 notification in the Official Gazette, specify to
 perform the functions of the registering
 authority under this Act ; 261. Chapter II provides for regulation of Cable Television
Network. Section 3 thereunder provides for cable television network not
to be operated except after registration. It provides that no person shall
operate a cable television network unless he is registered as a cable
operator under the CTVN Act. Section 4 provides for registration as
cable operator with the registering authority. Section 5 provides for
Programme Code which reads thus:- 262. Chapter III provides for seizure and confiscation of certain
equipment. Thereunder, Section 11 provides for power to seize
equipment used for operating the cable television network which reads
thus:- 263. Chapter IV provides for 'Offences and Penalties', under
which Section 16 provides for punishment for contravention of
provisions of the CTVN Act. Section 17 provides for offences by
companies which reads thus:- section (1), where any offence under this Act has
 been committed by a company and it is proved
 that the offence has been committed with the
 consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
 any negligence on the part of, any director,
 manager, secretary or other officer of the
 company, such director, manager, secretary or
 other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of
 that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
 against and punished accordingly. Explanation.--For the purposes of this
 section,-- (a) "company" means any body corporate and
 includes a firm or other association of
 individuals; and (b) "director"in relation to a firm means a
 partner in the firm." 264. Chapter V of the CTVN Act contains miscellaneous
provisions in which section 19 provides for power to prohibit
transmission of certain programmes in public interest. Section 20 provides for power to prohibit operation of cable television network in
public interest, which reads thus: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (j) encourages superstition or blind belief; (k) denigrates women through the depiction
in any manner of the figure of a woman, her
form or body or any part thereof in such a
way as to have the effect of being indecent,
or derogatory to women, or is likely to
deprave, corrupt or injure the public morality
or morals; (l) denigrates children; (m) contains visuals or words which reflect a
slandering, ironical and snobbish attitude in the
portrayal of certain ethnic, linguistic and
regional groups; (n) contravenes the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952). [(o) is not suitable for unrestricted public
exhibition.]

(Provided that no film or film song or film promo
or film trailer or music video or music albums or
their promos, whether produced in India or
abroad, shall be carried through cable service
unless it has been certified by the Central Board
of Film Certification (CBFC) as suitable for
unrestricted public exhibition in India. Explanation- For the purpose of this clause, the
expression "unrestricted public exhibition" shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Cinematograph Act,1952 (37 of 1952)]

[(p) contains live coverage of any anti-terrorist
operation by security forces, wherein media
coverage shall be restricted to periodic briefing
by an officer designated by the appropriate
Government, till such operation concludes. Explanation- For the purposes of this clause, it
is clarified that "anti-terrorist operation" means
such operation undertaken to bring terrorists to
justice, which includes all engagements
involving justifiable use of force between 197 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

 security forces and terrorists;]

 [(q) depicts cruelty or violence towards
 animals in any form or promotes unscientific
 belief that causes harm to animals." (underlining for emphasis by us) 268. Similar to the Programme Code, there is an Advertising Code
prescribed under Rule 7. Rule 10 provides for obligations of broadcaster,
multi-system operator and cable operator which reads thus:- 269. From the statutory framework of the CTVN Act and the
Rules, it is seen that the broadcasters and the persons involved with the
cable television network in their operations and functions under the
registration as granted to them under the CTVN Act, are required to act
within the substantive provisions of such enactment and the Rules
made thereunder. In other words, such persons are under a statutory
obligation to adhere to the various statutory stipulations as prescribed,
which includes strict adherence to the Programme Code as stipulated
under section 5 of the CTVN Act and provided for in rule 6 in respect of
the programmes which would be telecast on the respective TV channels.
The Programme Code as defined in rule 6 imposes several restrictions,
when the language of the rule begins with the words "No programme
should be carried on the cable service" which inter alia in the present
context offends against the good taste or decency [sub-rule (a)]; contains
anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive
innuendos and half truths [sub-rule (d)], contains anything amounting
to contempt of Court [sub-rule (f)]; criticises, maligns or slanders any
individual in person or certain groups, segments of social, public and 198 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

moral life of the country [sub-rule (i)]; denigrates women through the
depiction in any manner of the figure of a woman, her form or body or
any part thereof in such a way as to have the effect of being indecent, or
derogatory to women, or is likely to deprave, corrupt or injure the public
morality or morals [sub-rule (k)]; contravenes the provisions of the Cinematograph Act,1952 [sub-rule (n)]. 270. The violations of the Programme Code would attract
consequences provided for under section 11 of the CTVN Act, which
postulates the power to seize equipment used for operating the cable
television network, and punishment for contravention of the provisions
of the said Act, provided for under section 16 . A prohibition on
transmission is the consequence as section 19 would stipulate, in case
any programme or channel is not functioning within the conformity of
the Programme Code referred to in section 5 and/or Advertisement Code
referred to in section 6 . Section 20 is the power to prohibit operation of
cable television network in public interest, when the Central
Government considers that any programme of any channel is not in
conformity with the prescribed Programme Code referred to in section 5 or the prescribed Advertisement Code referred to in section 6 . Such is
the statutory regime within the framework of which a television channel
is supposed to operate. 271. Notably the UOI has notified the policy guidelines for Up-
linking and Down-linking of TV channels in India dated December 5,
2011. These guidelines are applicable to the applicants seeking
permission to set up an Uplinking Hub/Teleport or Uplink a TV Channel
or Uplink facility by a News Agency, a company registered in India under
the Indian Companies Act, 1956 . These guidelines provide for
permission for setting up Uplinking Hub/Teleport prescribing eligibility
criteria, period of permission, fees as prescribed, special
conditions/obligations. It provides that the company shall Uplink only
those TV Channels which are specifically approved or permitted by the
MI&B for up-linking from India. It provides for two categories of 199 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

permissions, firstly for permission for up-linking of non-news and
current affairs TV channels (paragraph 2) and permission for up-linking
of News & Current Affairs TV channel (paragraph 3). In regard to the
general terms and conditions as prescribed in paragraph 5, the relevant
paragraph nos.5.2 and 5.9 read thus:- 272. Paragraph 8 of the guidelines provide for Offences and

Penalties'. It would be relevant to note paragraph 8, which reads thus:- 273. Also, an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been
constituted under the Chairmanship of the Additional Secretary
(Information & Broadcasting) and also comprising of officers from
Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence, External Affairs, Law, Women and
Child Development, Health and Family Welfare, Consumer Affairs,
Information and Broadcasting and a representative from the industry in
Advertising Standards Council of India, to recommend to the Ministry in
regard to the actions to be taken on the offending channels. A final
decision in regard to the penalty and its quantum is to be taken by the
MI&B in case the TV channels offend the provisions of the CTVN Act and
the Rules. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 274. Considering the provisions of the CTVN Act and the CTVN
Rules, and the Programme Code as stipulated under rule 6 of the CTVN
Rules, it certainly imposes conditions on the television channels which
are in the form of restrictions to be mandatorily adhered to by the TV
channels. As noted above, rule 6 starts with negative words. It is well
settled that when the legislature uses negative words, such words make
the statute imperative. They are required to be construed as mandatory,
meaning thereby that the channels shall undertake actions in a manner
as ordained by section 5 of the CTVN Act read with rule 6 of the CTVN
Rules. In Nasiruddin & Ors. vs. Sita Ram Agarwal , reported in AIR
2003 SC 1543, the Court held that it is well settled that when negative
words are used, the Court would presume that intention of the
legislature was that the provisions are mandatory in character. 275. In the context of the issue before us, as rightly urged on
behalf of the petitioners at the Bar sub-rules (a), (d), (f), (g), (I) and (k)
would apply to the telecast which are in the nature of a media trial
having adverse consequences on an ongoing criminal investigation.
These sub-rules would have omnibus application and would apply to
situations of a media trial at all the stages including when the process of
criminal law is set into motion on registration of an FIR resulting into
arrest and till the trial is complete and to further judicial proceedings
before the Court. 276. Having held that the provisions of section 5 of the CTVN Act
providing for the Programme Code read with rule 6 of the CTVN Rules
being of mandatory application, it would be necessary to examine as to
how these provisions can be implemented. The provisions which are
directly relevant and contemplate action to be taken on contravention of
the provisions of section 5 is section 11 of the CTVN Act, empowering
the authorised officer to seize equipment being used by the cable
operator for operating the cable television network. The proviso to this
section postulates that the seizure of equipment in case of contravention
of sections 5 and 6 shall be limited to the programming service provided 202 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

on the channel generated at the level of the cable operator. Section 12 of
the CTVN Act provides for confiscation of the equipment seized under
sub-section (1) of section 11 . Further, section 13 provides that the
seizure or confiscation of equipment could not interfere with other
punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under the
provisions of the CTVN Act. Section 15 provides for an appeal against
the order of confiscation of equipment being passed. 277. Section 16 provides for punishment for contravention of
provisions of the CTVN Act and is a substantive provision. Thus a
punishment is attracted when a person contravenes the provisions of
the CTVN Act. The punishment for the first offence is imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees or with both, and for every subsequent offence,
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees. Sub-section (2) states
that notwithstanding anything contained in the Cr.P.C ., the
contravention of section 4A (transmission of programmes through digital
addressable systems) is a cognizable offence under this section. Section
17 provides for offences by companies. Section 18 provides that no
Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under the CTVN
Act except otherwise on a complaint made in writing by any authorised
officer. Section 19 , falling under Chapter V, is another substantive
power to prohibit transmission of certain programmes in public interest,
when the programme is not in conformity with the provisions prescribed
in the Programme Code referred to in section 5 and Advertisement Code
referred to in section 6 . Any programme or channel failing to conform to
the Programme Code and which is likely to disturb public tranquility, is
sufficient to attract section 19 and for the Authorised Officer to prohibit
transmission of certain programme in public interest. Section 20 is
another power to prohibit operation of cable television network in public
interest. This power is conferred on the Central Government to exercise
in public interest to prohibit operation of any cable television network in 203 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

such areas for the reasons as set out in sub-section (2), namely when
the Central Government thinks it necessary or expedient so to do in the
interest of the sovereignty or integrity of India; or security of India; or
friendly relations of India with foreign State; or public order, decency or
morality, being relevant factors in the context in hand. Sub-section (3)
categorically provides that where the Central Government considers that
any programme of any channel is not in conformity with the prescribed
Programme Code referred to in section 5 or the prescribed
Advertisement Code referred to in section 6 , it may by order, regulate or
prohibit the transmission or re-transmission of such programme. 278. It can, therefore, be seen that the CTVN Act is the repository
of power to take measures for violation of the Programme Code which,
inter alia, in clear and unambiguous terms prohibits carrying of any
programme on the cable network amounting to contempt of court. 279. For the reasons so discussed, we answer the question by
recording our firm opinion that the matters which are pending
investigation on a criminal complaint clearly fall within the restriction as
contained in the Programme Code as stipulated under section 5 of the
CTVN Act and Rule 6 of the CTVN Rules. Question No.4 280. It is seen that the regime of self regulation has been brought
about by the medial channels by forming the NBA and the NBF.
Admittedly, these are private bodies formed by the news channels
themselves. It is submitted that 26 broadcasters representing 77 media
channels are members of the NBA and about sixty channels are
members of the NBF. It is also not in dispute that there are large
number of channels, stated to be about 1500, which operate in the
country. All channels are not the members of the NBA/the NBF and
hence, are not bound by any rules and regulations or Code of Conduct
prescribed by these private bodies. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 281. As noted above, the members of the NBA would seem to be
bound by the NBSA, which is headed by a retired Judge of the Supreme
Court being the Chairperson. The NBSA considers a complaint against
the members and associate members of any violation of Code of Ethics &
Broadcasting Standards as formulated by it and binding on its
members. The member channel, if is found to have violated the Code of
Ethics, is imposed with a penalty of a nature to publish apology being
scrolled during the course of its telecast, as also there is power to
impose maximum fine of Rs.1 lakh. As per the NBA, these are sufficient
penalties which would keep its members within the four corners of the
Code of Ethics and Regulations and practising standards. As far as the
NBF is concerned, a body - NBFPNBSO is said to be constituted and the
appointment of its Chairman is in process. So far there are no instances
to show that the complaint mechanism has been activated by the NBF
and any actions taken. Similar to the NBA, the NBFPNBSO proposes to
impose penalties in the nature of apology to be scrolled by an erring TV
channel and also a substantive fine of Rs.5 lakh and 10 lakh in case of a
second and a third violation, respectively. 282. The case of these self-regulatory bodies is to the effect that
they provide sufficient check on their members so that they adhere to
the norms. This, according to them, balances the larger interests as
also protect the right of free speech and expression and preserve
independence of the media. By referring to the decision in Destruction
of Public and Private Properties (supra), it is urged that the Supreme
Court has approved the recommendations of the Nariman Committee
which recommended an approach of self-regulation. It is their case that
in the process, the Court also approved the model of media self-
regulation and rejected State intervention. To examine this contention,
paragraphs 32 and 33 of the said decision of the Supreme Court are
required to be noted which read thus:- and eschew comment or criticism. There are
differing views as to whether the media
(particularly the electronic media) has exercised
its right and privilege responsibly. But
generalisations should be avoided. The
important thing is that the electronic (and print)
media has expressed (unanimously) its wish to
act responsibly. The media has largely
responsible and more importantly, it wishes to
act responsibly. (iii) Regulation of the media is not an end in
itself; and allocative regulation is necessary
because the 'air waves' are public property and
cannot technically be free for all but have to be
distributed in a fair manner. However, allocative
regulation is different from regulation per se. All
regulation has to be within the framework of the
constitutional provision. However, a fair interpretation of the
constitutional dispensation is to recognize that
the principle of proportionality is built into the
concept of reasonableness whereby any
restrictions on the media follow the least
invasive approach. While emphasizing the need
for media responsibility, such an approach
would strike the correct balance between free
speech and the independence of the media. (iv) Although the print media has been placed
under the supervision of the Press Council,
there is need for choosing effective measures of
supervision - supervision not control. (v) As far as amendments mooted or
proposed to the Press Council Act, 1978 this
Committee would support such amendments as
they do not violate Article 19(1) (a) - which is a
preferred freedom. (vi) Apart from the Press Council Act, 1978 ,
there is a need for newspapers and journals to
set up their own independent mechanism. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (vii) The pre-censorship model used for cinema
 under the Cinematography Act, 1952 or the
 supervisory model for advertisements is not at
 all appropriate, and should not be extended to
 live print or broadcasting media. (viii) This Committee wholly endorses the need
 for the formation of (a) principles of responsible broadcasting (b) institutional arrangements of self regulation
 But the Committee emphasised the need not to
 drift from self regulation to some statutory
 structure which may prove to be oppressive and
 full of litigative potential. (ix) The Committee approved of the NBA
 model as a process that can be built upon both
 at the broadcasting service provider level as well
 as the industry level and recommend that the
 same be incorporated as guidelines issued by
 this Court under Act 142 of the Constitution of
 India - as was done in Vishakha's case. 33. The suggestions are extremely important
 and they constitute sufficient guidelines which
 need to be adopted. But leave it to the
 appropriate authorities to take effective steps for
 their implementation. At this juncture we are
 not inclined to give any positive directions. The
 writ petitions are disposed of." 283. The Supreme Court in the above case had taken a serious
note of various instances of large scale destruction of public and private
properties in the name of agitations, bandhs, hartals and the like. Suo-
motu proceedings were initiated by the Supreme Court on June 5, 2007
as set out in paragraph (1) of the decision. Consequent thereto, two
committees came to be constituted, one of the Committees being the
'Nariman Committee' which made the above recommendations. 284. The relevant observations in this regard are found in
paragraphs 1 to 4 of the report which read thus: 285. A perusal of the recommendations of the Nariman
Committee, as reflected in paragraph 32 of the said decision, would go
to show that the Committee was of the opinion that given the exigencies
of competition, there is a degree of sensationalism, which in itself was
not harmful so long as it preserved the essential role of the media
namely to report news as it occurs - and eschew comment or criticism. It
was observed that there are differing views as to whether the media and
more particularly the electronic media exercises its right and privilege 208 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

responsibly and that the electronic media should act responsibly. In
paragraph (viii), the Committee endorsed the need for formation of
principles of responsible broadcasting, and institutional arrangements of
self regulation. It is in this context the Committee approved the NBA
model as a process that can be built upon both as the broadcasting
service provider level as well as at the industry level and recommend
that the same be incorporated as guidelines issued by this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. The Supreme Court observed
that these suggestions were extremely important and they constitute
sufficient guidelines which need to be adopted, however, leaving it to the
appropriate authorities to take effective steps for their implementation.
The Supreme Court did not give any positive directions in that regard.
In view of these clear observations, we do not agree with the NBA or the
NBF that a self regulatory mechanism can be held to be conclusive. We
also hold that such self-regulatory mechanism would not take the
character of a statutory mechanism. It needs to be stated that despite
clear directions of the Supreme Court, we are not shown any directives
issued by the Central Government accepting the self-regulatory
mechanism to be a conclusive mechanism. The self-regulatory
mechanism does not have any statutory recognition, in the absence of
which, it is not possible for us to hold that the self-regulatory
mechanism would have any sanctity in law. These are the bodies formed
by private channels. There is no control whatsoever on the functioning
of these bodies by the Central Government or any other statutory
agencies. The regime of penalties prescribed also, in our opinion, is not a
deterrent of such measure which in a given case could be said to be in
the proportion of the damage, an objectional broadcast may cause, by
media excesses or irresponsible reporting of the nature complained of by
the petitioners. In any event, considering the observations of the
Supreme Court in paragraph 33, the NBA and the NBSA cannot argue
that the Court conferred any legal sanctity on their self-regulatory
mechanism. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 286. In this context there is yet another significant facet is
required to be noted, namely that such self-regulatory mechanism is
applicable only to the members of the NBA or the NBF and not to those
TV channels who have not subscribed to the membership of these self
regulatory bodies. Further the TV channels, which may have reasons to
repudiate the membership of such self regulatory bodies for some
unpalatable reasons, can easily evade and escape the regulatory
measures being imposed on it. There is no mechanism to remedy such
situation. Such option being available to a member is as good as a farce
and/or a mockery of the self-regulatory mechanism. It was strenuously
contended that one TV channel went out of the NBA and formed another
self-regulatory mechanism. In our opinion, such self-regulatory
mechanism would hardly meet the constitutional expectations of the
citizens of a fair and responsible broadcasting, which would not be of a
nature of an unwarranted sensitization, excessive publicity, leakage of
evidence, and vilifying coverage, affecting public confidence in the
judicial system and in the administration of criminal justice. The
Government being the owner of air-waves, which the electronic media
uses, it would not amount to any breach of the freedom the media
enjoys under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution if such erring channels
are hauled up and/or paralyzed by the relevant authority for violation of
the Programme Code. 287. We, accordingly, answer question no.(iv) observing that
although the objects of the NBA and the NBF could be laudable, the
course and the regime of self- regulation as adopted by its bodies cannot
have any sanctity within the statutory framework. It is, accordingly,
answered in the negative. QUESTION NO.5 288. The discussion leading to the answer to this question must
begin with what a 'fair trial' is and what is a 'trial by media'. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 289. The criminal justice system in India has, at its heart, the
right of an accused to a fair trial. A 'fair trial' takes within its embrace
various rights that are well acknowledged, viz. the fundamental of the
criminal justice system that an accused is presumed to be innocent
unless proved guilty, and the rights of an accused: to maintain silence,
to have an open trial, to have the facility of legal representation, to
speedy trial, to hear witnesses and to cross-examine them. Apart from
benefiting the accused in his right of defence, what is of paramount
importance is that these rights are in-built in the system to enhance the
confidence of the public insofar as efficiency and integrity of the justice
delivery system is concerned. 290. While the right of a fair trial has to be zealously guarded,
equally important is the right of the press/media to keep the public
informed of matters of public interest. These could include reporting of
court proceedings involving people belonging to the top echelons of
society, legislators, judges, bureaucrats, celebrities, etc. 291. What would be the position if these two rights are in
conflict? One would find an interesting observation in Solicitor General
v. Wellington Newspapers Ltd., reported in (1995) 1 NZLR 45, to the
following effect: 292. There are precedents in the matter of trial by media and the
effect it may have on pending trials. The same are instructive and would
provide suitable guidance to us to decide the question issue arising for
decision. 293. R.K. Anand (supra), notices the definition of 'trial by media'
(without reference to its author) in the context of whether a sting
operation amounts to a trial by media. It says: 294. In Rajendra Jawanmal Gandhi (supra), the Hon'ble
Supreme Court held : (underlining for emphasis by us) 295. In Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma (supra), the
Supreme Court while stressing that coverage should not be prejudicial
to those who are on trial said: "296. Cardozo, one of the great Judges of the American
 Supreme Court in his Nature of the Judicial Process
 observed that the judges are subconsciously influenced by
 several forces. This Court has expressed a similar view in
 P.C. Sen, In Re [AIR 1970 SC 1821] and Reliance
 Petrochemicals Ltd. v. Indian Express Newspapers, Bombay
 (P) Ltd. [(1988) 4 SCC 592]. 297. There is danger of serious risk of prejudice if the media
 exercises an unrestricted and unregulated freedom such
 that it publishes photographs of the suspects or the accused
 before the identification parades are constituted or if the
 media publishes statements which outrightly hold the
 suspect or the accused guilty even before such an order has
 been passed by the court. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 298. Despite the significance of the print and electronic
 media in the present day, it is not only desirable but the
 least that is expected of the persons at the helm of affairs in
 the field, to ensure that trial by media does not hamper fair
 investigation by the investigating agency and more
 importantly does not prejudice the right of defence of the
 accused in any manner whatsoever. It will amount to
 travesty of justice if either of this causes impediments in the
 accepted judicious and fair investigation and trial.
 *** 301. Presumption of innocence of an accused is a legal
 presumption and should not be destroyed at the very
 threshold through the process of media trial and that too
 when the investigation is pending. In that event, it will be
 opposed to the very basic rule of law and would impinge
 upon the protection granted to an accused under Article 21 of the Constitution. [ Anukul Chandra Pradhan v. Union of
 India [(1996) 6 SCC 354]]. It is essential for the maintenance
 of dignity of the courts and is one of the cardinal principles
 of the rule of law in a free democratic country, that the
 criticism or even the reporting particularly, in sub judice
 matters must be subjected to check and balances so as not
 to interfere with the administration of justice. 302. In the present case, various articles in the print media
 had appeared even during the pendency of the matter before
 the High Court which again gave rise to unnecessary
 controversies and apparently, had an effect of interfering
 with the administration of criminal justice. We would
 certainly caution all modes of media to extend their
 cooperation to ensure fair investigation, trial, defence of the
 accused and non-interference with the administration of
 justice in matters sub judice. 303. Summary of our conclusions: Invasion of his rights is bound to be held as impermissible." (underlining for emphasis by us) 296. Tehseen S. Poonawalla vs. Union of India , reported in
(2018) 9 SCC 501, makes poignant observations on the aspect of 213 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

maintenance of law and order by the State and the rights available to a
citizen, which we consider relevant for the present purpose and
reproduce hereunder : (underlining for emphasis by us) 214 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 297. Facts of two cases are seldom alike. However, one decision
of the Supreme Court which could be of some assistance to us in view of
the facts thereof bearing close resemblance to the stage of proceedings
(read: police investigation into a crime was/is in progress) is the one in M.P. Lohia (supra). The Supreme Court was dealing with an application
for anticipatory bail of an applicant husband, accused of abetting the
suicide of his wife. The applicant's claim was that his wife committed
suicide due to depression. At the stage of investigation, the case received
wide publicity. An article was published in a magazine, based on the
version of the deceased, as regards complicity of the applicant and his
family members. The Court deprecated such irresponsible publication
during pending investigation and ruled as follows: (underlining for emphasis by us) 298. The Supreme Court in Rajendran Chingaravelu (supra),
observed : (underlining for emphasis by us) 299. Whenever the Courts in India are called upon to undertake
the sensitive and delicate task of reconciling conflicting public interests,
i.e., preserving freedom of speech, respecting privacy and protecting fair
trial, they must be extremely cautious in striking a balance to ensure
that while effective exercise of the right of freedom of speech is not
throttled by using the weapon of contempt, any unwanted attempt at
intrusion into one's private life and undue tarnishing of the reputation
built up by him after years of efforts is either kept in abeyance or
invalidated, and the people's faith in the judicial system is duly
sustained. A subtle understanding of and a mutual respect for each
other's needs would be required before the conflict becomes too acute. 300. Drawing inspiration from the definition of 'trial by media' in R.K. Anand (supra) as well as the authorities referred to above , it can
safely be concluded that to amount to a trial by media, the impact of the
press/media coverage on the reputation of the person targeted as an
accused must be such that it is sufficient to create a widespread
perception of his guilt, prior to pronouncement of verdict by the court,
thus making him the subject of intense public scrutiny for the rest of his
life. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 301. The adverse impact of trial by media during continuance of
trials before courts have been noted by the Supreme Court and various
other courts. Here, not to speak of trial having commenced, the CBI is
still seized of investigation pursuant to the order dated passed by the
Supreme Court on August 19, 2020 and, therefore, a police report under section 173(2) , Cr.P.C. is awaited. 302. At this stage, we may once again briefly advert attention to
the aspect of "investigation" by the police and the adverse impacts on
police investigation by media reportage. 303. The "investigation" which is set into motion by lodging of a
first information report in relation to commission of a cognizable offence
is the 'initial' investigation that the police on its own must undertake
under section 156(1) of the Cr.P.C., without the orders of the Magistrate,
upon receiving information from any source that a cognizable offence
has been committed. The 'initial' investigation ought to also invariably
follow, if the jurisdictional magistrate under section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C
passes an order directing registration of an FIR and investigation into
the alleged crime in the same manner as in section 156(1) thereof. The
provisions of the Cr.P.C . encompasses that at the stage of investigation,
it should be the elementary duty of a police investigation to suspect
everything and everyone, and thereafter by a process of elimination and
inclusion, reach a conclusion; the conclusion being the last step upon
completion of investigation and not the first step at the commencement
of the investigation. Apart from such 'initial' investigation, investigation
can be ordered at different stages and can take varied forms. Further
investigation, and 'fresh' or 'de novo' or 'reinvestigation' are not foreign
to the Cr.P.C . At this stage, we need not refer to the same in great detail
since the police report under section 173(2) , Cr.P.C. is awaited but have
to always bear in mind that an accused put up for trial is entitled to a
fair trial and a fair trial is a means to secure justice to all, be it the
accused or the victim. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 304. The observations of the Supreme Court in Sidhartha
Vashisht @ Manu Sharma (supra) are noteworthy. It says: (underlining for emphasis by us) 305. In Romila Thapar (supra), the Supreme Court in no
uncertain terms laid down the law that while Courts do not determine
the course of investigation, they act as watchdogs to ensure that fair and
impartial investigation takes place since a fair and independent
investigation is crucial to preservation of the rule of law and, in the
ultimate analysis, to liberty itself. 306. The following passage from the decision in Pooja Pal v.
Union of India , reported in (2016) 3 SCC 135, is important from the
view-point of the present discussion: (underlining for emphasis by us) 307. A fair trial must kick off only after an investigation is itself
fair and just, has been reiterated by the Supreme Court in its decision in Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya v. The State of Gujarat , reported in
(2019) 17 SCC 1. 308. In Suresh Chandra Jana v. State of West Bengal , reported
in (2017) 16 SCC 466, a short passage on the criminal justice system in
our country is found in the supplementing opinion of the presiding
Judge of the Bench. It reads: 309. The legal position clearly emerging on a bare reading of the
scheme of the Cr.P.C . relatable to investigation under Chapter XII
thereof as well perusal of the dicta of the Supreme Court noted above is
that a fair trial ought to be preceded by an investigation that is fair to
the accused as well as the victim. To ensure that an investigation is fair
is not the duty of the courts alone, it is as much an obligation of the
investigator and his superiors to have an investigation into a crime
conducted in such manner that it serves the purpose for which it is
intended. Although investigation is an arena reserved for the police and
the executive and the courts would be loath to interfere with 219 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

investigation, it does not detract from the character of activity
undertaken by an investigator that a free, fair, impartial, effective and
meaningful investigation of a cognizable offence is a necessary
concomitant of "administration of justice", undoubtedly covering a wider
area than "adjudication of cases and dispensation of justice", which
truly belongs to the judiciary, and any speech/publication in exercise of
a citizen's freedom of speech while conforming to restrictions imposed by
law in general under clause (2) of Article 19 must also yield to larger
considerations of maintaining the purity of administration of justice. The
Punjab High Court in Rao Harnarain v. Gumori Ram , reported in AIR
1958 Pun 273, rightly pointed out: 310. In course of hearing, we had illustrated as to how
unregulated media reporting could adversely affect investigations that
are in progress and requested learned counsel appearing for the
respondents to respond. Quite naturally, we were greeted with meek
responses. All the learned counsel opposing the writ petitions could not
have disputed and did not in fact dispute the consequences that could
ensue upon constant media coverage in respect of an on-going
investigation. 311. What was illustrated, in concise form, is as follows: Thus noticed, without much debate, an area can be carved out for
corrective action. 312. Given the circumstance that the press/media has the ability
to mould the opinion of the society by publicity of certain facets of an
investigative process, which could give rise to strong public emotions
and prejudice the case of one party or the other, it ought to refrain from
taking stances in its presentations which are biased and show a
predilection for a particular point of view having enormous potential of
deflecting the course of justice. 313. Learned counsel for Republic TV contended with vehemence
that "investigative journalism" has brought to light matters of grave
concern and interest to the society at large. As a sequel to such activity
undertaken by its reporters, Republic TV gathered incriminating
materials that could connect the accused with the offence of murder and
has honestly endeavoured to place facts for the information of its
viewers, which Mumbai Police had been suppressing. 314. To our mind, the contention proceeds on a clear
misunderstanding of the provisions of the Cr.P.C . If indeed the channel
is in possession of information that could assist the investigator, it
ought not to be part of a news coverage but it would be the duty of such 222 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

channel to provide the information that it has to the police under sections 37 to 39 of the Cr.P.C. to facilitate a proper investigation. 315. That apart, the campaign against Mumbai Police of having
suppressed facts appears to be ill-founded in view of the order of the
Supreme Court dated August 19, 2020. It recorded a prima facie
satisfaction of the Court, on perusal of the records, that the same do not
suggest any wrong doing by Mumbai Police although obstruction to the
Bihar Police team could have been avoided so as not to give rise to any
suspicion on the bonafide of the enquiry. 316. Giving due recognition to the press/media as the fourth
pillar of democracy and that it plays a vital role in not only
disseminating information to the public but at times in urging the
justice delivery system to set right a wrong, there have been several
decisions of the Supreme Court expressing hope and trust that the
media would cover and report events and incidents accurately and by
exercising a degree of restraint so as not to impinge on others' rights
and even if it does cross the line, the self-regulatory mechanism would
spring in to keep the media under check. The sole intention was to
ensure that nothing would be done which could be destructive of orderly
administration of justice, challenge the supremacy of the rule of law and
shake the confidence of the people in the judicial process. Drawing from
experience, there is good enough reason to conclude that the hope and
trust are belied and the self-regulatory mechanism has failed to deliver
in adequate measure in keeping erring media houses under check. It is
now time that some corrective action is taken, lest judicial independence
remains only on paper and right-thinking people start losing faith in the
justice delivery system and doubt the capacity of the Courts to correct
what needs to be corrected. 317. The position in law qua the right of the Press in the light of
the guarantee of freedom of speech and expression enumerated in Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution conditioned with the rider that no
Fundamental Right is absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions 223 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

being imposed by law is so well settled by the Supreme Court, on
numerous occasions, that nothing more is required to be expressed
except that Article 21 , despite having the fewest count of words among
all the Fundamental Rights, is the most fundamental of all Fundamental
Rights that the Constitution of India guarantees to all persons, and the
rights guaranteed by Article 19 to the citizens have to settle for a
backseat in case of an apparent conflict between the two. The procedure
for depriving a person of his right to life has to be eminently just, fair
and reasonable but deprivation sought to be effected by 'media trial' or
'parallel investigation' by the media is not a procedure that has any legal
sanctity. In such a situation, the Court has to step in to protect those
the rights of whom are found to be in jeopardy by reason of apathy
and/or indifference of the State to check programmes of media houses
which tend to offend Article 21 rights. 318. In Union of India vs. Raghubir Singh , reported in AIR 1989
SC 1933, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court had the occasion
to observe that today, it is no longer in doubt that a substantial volume
of the law governing the lives of citizens and regulating the functions of
the State flows from decisions of the superior courts. It is not expected
that a high court, despite observing violation of rights, would remain a
mute spectator by adopting a passive or negative role. The high courts'
power to reach injustice, whenever and wherever found is well-
entrenched and directions can well be issued by the high courts, in
exercise of its Article 226 jurisdiction, to enforce Fundamental Rights in
a manner that it does not conflict with any statute. 319. Question no. 5 is, thus, answered by observing that
regulation of reporting by the media amounting to a 'media trial' is
necessary but limited to securing the rights of others under Article 21 as
well as to preserve and maintain the sanctity of the criminal justice
system of the country, to the extent delineated by us while we answer
Question D (infra). Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 320. Having answered the legal questions, we now proceed to
answer the incidental questions arising out of the pleaded cases
seriatim. Question A 321. It would be profitable, for answering the first part of the
question, to reproduce hereunder the Press Release of the PCI dated
September 13, 2019 in its entirety. It reads as follows: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 322. The PCI, which has issued the aforesaid Press Release, is a
creature of the PCI Act. It is a statutory authority which functions as a
watch guard of the Press, for the Press and by the Press. It has
adjudicatory power in the sense that it adjudicates the complaints
against and by the Press for violation of ethics and for violation of
'Freedom of the Press', respectively. The power to punish, in exercise of
powers conferred by the PCI Act, includes imposition of punishment
such as, warning, admonition and censuring the newspapers, news
agencies, the editors or journalists or to disapprove the conduct of the
persons associated with the Press. The guidelines contained in the Press
Release dated September 13, 2019 is prompted by the object of the PCI
to maintain the standard of reporting by the newspapers and news
agencies in India. One of the functions that the PCI is obliged to perform
is to build up a Code of Conduct for the newspapers, news agencies and
journalists in accordance with high professional standards as well as to
ensure on the part of the newspapers, news agencies and journalists,
the maintenance of high standard of public taste and foster a new sense
of the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Bearing in mind such
functions that the PCI is obligated to discharge in terms of the PCI Act,
section 13 of the PCI Act appears to be the repository of power to frame
guidelines. The guidelines issued by the PCI, though binding on the
print media, do not bind the electronic media. 323. NBA, which is respondent no.1 in the writ petition of Mr.
Sarode (WP No.40 of 2020), has also issued an advisory dated August
13, 2020. The said advisory is quoted below in its entirety: Further, it may also be noted that intrusive broadcasts in relation to the
death of a person, even if a celebrity, are a violation of the guidelines
relating to privacy, apart from being in breach of the dignity of an
individual. 5. Privacy

 5.1 Broadcasters should be exercise discretion and
 sensitivity when reporting on distressing situations,
 on grief and bereavement. 5.3 Content that would cause unwarranted distress to
 surviving family members, including by showing
 archival footage, should be avoided. 5.4 No information relating to the location of a person's
 home or family should be disclosed without
 permission from the concerned person. 5.6 Interviews of the injured, victims or grieving persons
 should be conducted only with prior consent of the
 persons or where applicable their guardian. Similarly, the 'Guidelines for Telecast of News Affecting Public
Order' dated 18.12.2008 deals with the manner in which a deceased
person's body should be shown by the media: 6. The dead should be treated with dignity and their
 visuals should not be shown. Special care should be taken in
 the broadcast of any distressing visuals and graphics showing
 grief and emotional scenes of victims and relatives which
 could cause distress to children and families. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Editors are accordingly advised to bring the aforementioned Guidelines
to the specific attention of all editorial personnel, anchors, journalists,
produces and any other person who are involved with news reportage. Editors are cautions that any violation of the above principles /
Guidelines will be viewed seriously by NBSA and appropriate action may
be initiated, including suo motu action. Editors are also advised to preserve the footage and scripts of all
news/programmes broadcast in relation to the suicide of actor *** for
consideration of NBSA, should it become necessary. Kindly circulate to all concerned for compliance. Annie Joseph
For & on behalf of the
News Broadcasting Stands Authority

CC : Members & Legal Heads of NBA" manager of the actor (who too died in mysterious circumstances)
highlighted that her body was found unclothed. Apart from anything
else, a clear lack of courtesy to a woman who has left this world is
demonstrated thereby. On its part, Times Now displayed close-up
pictures of the cadaver of the actor, one alleged to have been given by
the actor's family, and raised suspicion in respect of a ligature mark by
remarking that another image was morphed. While expressing views
that Mumbai Police had not done its job properly necessitating the
media to pursue the case of securing justice to the actor, the channel
went to the extent of commenting that the activists' plea to restrain the
media was a move to suppress coverage on the death of the actor.
Serious concerns were raised by both the TV channels as to why an FIR
was not registered or as to why no arrest was effected. Speakers invited
by such channels ranging from ministers, members of the Parliament,
lawyers, political analysts, forensic experts, social activists,
spokespersons of political parties, etc., expressed views appearing on
screen as to how Mumbai Police had bungled the inquiry/investigation 230 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

into the unnatural death of the actor by failing to follow standard
operating procedure, ignoring key evidence, hiding relevant forensic
details, letting off conspirators and shielding the culprits. In fine, these
TV channels continued their endeavor of informing the masses that
Mumbai Police was suppressing the truth with a view to cover-up the
entire incident. In the process, in an attempt to out-smart each other
(for reasons which we need not discuss here), these two TV channels
started a vicious campaign of masquerading as the crusaders of truth
and justice and the saviours of the situation thereby exposing, what in
their perception, Mumbai Police had suppressed, caring less for the
rights of other stakeholders and throwing the commands of the Cr.P.C .
and all sense of propriety to the winds. It amuses us not a little that
Republic TV doffed its own hat, in appreciation of what its team had
achieved, without realizing that it could be irking and invite adverse
comments. While inquiry/investigation by Mumbai Police was
strenuously asserted by these TV channels to be shoddy and
questionable, the Supreme Court in its order dated August 19, 2020
recorded prima facie satisfaction of Mumbai Police not having indulged
in any wrong doing. Despite such order, reports/ discussions/
debates/interviews on the death of the actor flowed thick and fast from
these TV channels in brazen disregard of the rule of law, the edifice on
which the country's Constitution rests. These TV channels took upon
themselves the role of the investigator, the prosecutor as well as the
Judge and delivered the verdict as if, during the pandemic, except they
all organs of the State were in slumber. While we need not repeat here
what Mumbai Police was accused of by these TV channels, judicial
notice may be taken that the actress, although entitled to her rights to
life and equal protection of the laws, protected by Articles 21 and 14 of
the Constitution, and the right guaranteed by Article 20(3) thereof to
maintain silence, was painted as the villain of the piece, had the rug
below the presumption of innocence removed, and received the media's
verdict that she is guilty of orchestrating the actor's murder, much 231 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

before filing of a police report under section 173(2) , Cr.P.C.; and that in
the situation as depicted, omission or neglect to arrest the actress
amounted to a glaring act of impropriety by Mumbai Police. We have no
hesitation to record that this sort of reporting by the media is immensely
prejudicial to the interests of the accused and could dent the process of
a future fair trial and derail due administration of criminal justice, once
the matter reaches the appropriate court having jurisdiction. We also
accept Mr.Chinoy's contention that such reporting could be seen as
violation of the Programme Code. Even if the contents of the
reports/discussions/debates are considered to be mere insinuations
and aspersions against Mumbai Police and the actress, they lack bona
fides, are aimed at interfering with and/or obstructing administration of
justice and have the propensity to shake the public confidence in the
capability of the police machinery and the efficacy of the judiciary. In
our considered opinion, telecast of reports/ discussions
/debates/interviews by these TV channels on the death of the actor and
events subsequent thereto, brought on record by the petitioners is,
prima facie, contemptuous having ingredients of criminal contempt of
the nature specified in section 2(c)(iii) of the CoC Act and could attract
penalty under section 12 thereof. 330. However, having regard to the subject matter of these
proceedings and the questions that we have been tasked to decide, we
do not consider it appropriate to initiate action for criminal contempt
against these TV channels. Of course, while refraining from so doing, we
hope and trust that they shall act more responsibly in future and not
create a situation for the Court to take recourse to the provisions of Article 215 of the Constitution and the CoC Act to invoke its jurisdiction
to punish for contempt. 331. Insofar as the other part of Question B is concerned, we
could have left it unanswered having regard to the limited relief claimed
by Mr.Chinoy on behalf of the petitioners (Mahesh Narayan Singh and
the others). Nonetheless, we need to express our views on such part 232 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

question too lest confusion prevails. We place on record that in the light
of the order of the Supreme Court dated August 19, 2020, Mumbai
Police cannot be accused of any wrong doing by the electronic media
and, prima facie, the criticism made seems to be not fair. The petitioners
(Mahesh Narayan Singh and the others) could be justified in their
concern that persistent criticism could bring down the morale of the
police force and prove counter-productive and, therefore, utmost care
should be taken to present reports that are tested and found to be true
and correct. Any biased information or incorrect reporting may damage
not only the good and clean reputation of a police officer, built over the
years, but also the institution to which he belongs. We need to remind
that every journalist/reporter has an overriding duty to the society of
educating the masses with fair, accurate, trustworthy and responsible
reports relating to reportable events/incidents and above all to the
standards of his/her profession. Thus, the temptation to sensationalize
should be resisted. However, this is neither the stage to give Mumbai
Police a certificate that it has conducted the necessary inquiry following
the actor's death in accordance with law nor to validate the adverse
reporting by the electronic media. Any final opinion in this regard must
await the verdict of the criminal courts at the several stages, right up to
the remedy last available to an aggrieved party. 332. The above discussion, we are inclined to believe, adequately
answers Question B.

Question 333. From a cumulative reading of the statutory provisions
engrafted in the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules, it is clearly seen that a
robust statutory framework has been laid down thereunder read with
the Up-linking and Down-linking guidelines. However, considering the
facts on record, it is quite clear to us that the implementation of these
provisions is far from satisfactory. We say so primarily for two
fundamental reasons. First, we have not been shown any material that 233 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

either the authorized officer or any other appropriate machinery, has
verified telecast made by several news channels in relation to the
unnatural death of the actor which allegedly amounts to a media trial.
The nature of surveillance required to scrutinize the contents being
broadcast to ascertain as to whether they are in violation of the
Programme Code, appears to have remained dormant and/or in deep
slumber. No decisions were taken in regard to the complaints which
were received. The second reason being the strange perception of the
UOI as depicted in its reply affidavit in regard to the actions which
would be taken by the Central Government in regard to the violation of
the Programme Code, when it is stated that such complaints of violation
were received and were referred to a private body, namely the NBA. The
following paragraphs in the counter affidavit of Shri. Prem Chand, Under
Secretary in the MI&B, Government of India, are required to be noted in
the context that the very authority under the CTVN Act did not take any
action or, as contended by the petitioners, abdicated its powers to take
such actions. Paragraphs 5 to 9 of the affidavit read thus:- 334. Hence, there is much substance in the contentions as urged
on behalf of the petitioners. We do not approve such abdication of
substantive power conferred by the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules by
such authorities in favour of a voluntary organization (private body),
which is formed by the channels themselves, namely, the NBA and 235 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

which has constituted the 'NBSA'. In view of our conclusion that matters
which are pending investigation on a criminal complaint clearly fall
within the restriction as contained in the Programme Code,
contemplated under section 5 of the CTVN Act and rule 6 of the CTVN
Rules, it would be a mandatory obligation of such authorities to
immediately act upon the complaints received against the TV channels
who are alleged to be violating the Programme Code or any other
provisions of the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules and take necessary
action as provided for thereunder. Such regime is also recognized by the
Up-linking and Down-linking guidelines. A clear statutory regime so
prescribed cannot be permitted to be rendered nugatory and/or totally
ineffective by an approach to refer the complaint to the self- regulatory
authority. Most significantly, the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules do not
recognize such mechanism as adopted by the UOI and placed on record
by Shri. Prem Chand, Under Secretary, MI&B. It would be in the teeth
of the provisions of the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules and would
amount to total non-implementation of the powers as otherwise
conferred by such statutory provisions. The substantive statutory
provisions, thus, cannot be rendered otiose by evolving a mechanism
alien to the CTVN Act and the CTVN Rules. We, accordingly, direct that
every complaint which would be made on the contents of any
programme on any television channel, either to the authorized officer or
the Central Government in regard to violation of the Programme Code,
shall be dealt with in a manner as provided under the CTVN Act and
immediate action be taken thereon, without involvement of any private
bodies like NBSA or NBF. This would be de hors any complaint made to
these bodies or any other such bodies, which would be dealt by these
bodies as per their self-regulatory mechanism. Question D 335. On the aspect of passing postponement orders, the decision
in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra) has been relied on by
almost all the parties. In such decision, the Court laid down the law 236 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

relating to passing of postponement orders bearing in mind several
facets of law, as follows: (italics in original, underlined by us for emphasis) 336. The Court, while examining the objections to
maintainability, further proceeded to hold: (italics in original, underlined by us for emphasis) 240 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 337. The two sentences in the above extract which we have
underlined has been the sheet anchor of the respondents. It would seem
that framing of guidelines on reporting across the board by this Court
for the media to follow is not a permissible course of action, but on a
case-to-case basis the Court may decide whether the alleged offending
publication amounts to contempt or not. 338. The UOI has relied on the decision in Satpal Saini (supra),
as well as the decisions referred to therein for the proposition that it is
not open to a High Court to issue direction to the legislature to enact a
law, the power to enact a legislation being a plenary constitutional
power vested in the Parliament and the State Legislatures under Articles
245 and 246 of the Constitution, respectively. 339. Reliance has further been placed by the respondents on Destruction of Public & Private Properties (supra) to highlight that
the Supreme Court while accepting self-regulation by the media did not
choose to lay down any guideline for reporting. Also, the decision in Common Cause (supra), has been relied on where the Supreme Court
[while deciding W.P.(C) No.1024 of 2013] was considering an issue with
reference to introduction of a complaint redressal mechanism. Such
mechanism was sought in respect of complaints made against television
and radio programmes. The respondents contended that apart from the
self-regulatory mechanism, there was indeed a mechanism created by
the UOI for dealing with complaints. According to the UOI, an Inter-
Ministerial Committee had been set up comprising officers of different
departments to deal with complaints and the details thereof were
available on the website of the MI&B. While disposing of W.P.(C) No.
1024 of 2013, the Court observed and directed as follows: (underlining for emphasis by us) 340. The affidavits filed from time to time by the UOI before the
Supreme Court, which is seized of W.P. (C) No.956 of 2020 [Firoz Iqbal
Khan v. Union of India & ors.] would reveal the steps taken by the UOI
to implement the directions in paragraph 11 of the decision in Common
Cause (supra). 341. Having regard to Article 141 of the Constitution, the
decisions of the Supreme Court are the law of the land and binding on
all Courts. They have to be respected and followed. It is trite that such
observation in any decision of the Supreme Court, amounting to clear
enunciation or declaration of law, which would be binding on us even
though such declaration may not have been strictly necessary for the
disposal of the case or the declaration of law is not followed by actual 242 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

application thereof in the case in question. However, the Supreme Court
has cautioned that blind reliance on any decision is not proper. The
Court is under an obligation to discuss how the factual situation fits in
with the factual situation of the decision on which reliance is placed.
Observations in a judgment, the Supreme Court has also cautioned, are
neither to be read as Euclid's theorems nor as provisions of a statute,
and that too taken out of context. 342. Bearing these principles in mind, we venture to examine
how far the decisions relied on by the respondents assist their case. 343. Destruction of Public & Private Properties (supra), we say
so with respect, does not enunciate or declare any law of relevance in
the present context, binding on us under Article 141 of the Constitution.
Paragraph 33 of the decision is clear that the matter was left to the
authorities for implementation of the suggestions and no positive
direction was given. There being a statutory regime under the CTVN Act
and the CTVN Rules read with the Up-linking and Down-linking
guidelines, the suggestions of the Nariman Committee would have to
yield to the same. Even otherwise, the facts and circumstances as well
as the concerns expressed here are completely different. 344. Reliance on Satpal Saini (supra) is misplaced. The law
[read: the CTVN Act, the CTVN Rules and the 2011 guidelines) being in
existence to deal with contents of programmes, which do not conform to
the Programme Code, there is hardly any necessity for us to direct the
Parliament to further legislate on the subject; however, in an appropriate
case such as the present where guidelines on reporting on sensitive
cases while an FIR is being investigated, we can certainly direct the
authorities to activate themselves and act in view of the discussions
while answering question no.5 (supra). 345. Though the nature of proceedings as well as its stage in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. (supra) in no way bear
resemblance to the cases at hand, yet, the law enunciated and/or 243 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

declared by the Court therein on the aspect of the Court's power to pass
postponement orders is relevant in the present context. It is of great
significance that the Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate
Corpn. Ltd. (supra), although not concerned with a criminal trial, had
the occasion to observe that at times even fair and accurate reporting of
a trial could give rise to a 'real and substantial risk of serious prejudice'
to connected trials and in such cases, which would be rare, there is no
other practical means short of postponement orders that is capable of
avoiding the real and substantial risk of prejudice to the connected
trials. We are inclined to the view that the importance, necessity and
desirability of passing postponement orders to avoid real and
substantial risk of serious prejudice in cases where the media out of
over zealousness fails to make a fair and accurate reporting of a trial
and to maintain the sanctity of administration of justice and fairness in
trial cannot, therefore, be over emphasized. More so, when the society as
a whole, as it ought to be, is vitally interested in the prevention of
improper convictions as also unmerited acquittals. Having regard to the
findings that we have returned, it may not have been absolutely
inappropriate for us to make postponement orders. However, we propose
not to pass such order taking judicial notice that the hysteria caused by
the offending reports/discussions/debates/interviews pertaining to the
untimely unnatural demise of the actor appears to have calmed down
albeit the prejudice it has caused at the relevant time, as noted above.
During the time the judgment on these petitions stood reserved, no
further complaint of violation of rights of others by the media has been
brought to our notice. Nonetheless, certain measures need to be
suggested which we propose to indicate before concluding our
discussion on the question. 346. Common Cause (supra) had more to do with complaint
redressal mechanism for which directions have been issued. UOI has
been taking steps in compliance with the directions of the Court, which
is monitoring the situation. Since the writ petition of Faisal Ahmed 244 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

Khan (supra) is pending before the Supreme Court, we say no more in
this regard. 347. While not proposing to issue directions for postponement of
news reporting for the reasons noted above, yet, bearing in mind the
adverse impact that a trial by media could have on pending
investigations (which was not the subject matter of consideration before
the Supreme Court in the aforesaid decisions), that an accused is
entitled to Constitutional protections and invasion of his rights is to be
zealously guarded, that there is an emerging need to foster a degree of
responsibility as well as promote accountability and the reason in the
paragraph that follows, we do not consider it to be either impermissible
or imprudent in the present context to maintain a fine balance between
competing rights as well as having regard to the ever-changing societal
needs to suggest measures for exercise of restraint by the media in
respect of certain specified matters, with a view to secure proper
administration of justice, while it proceeds to exercise its right to report. 348. As it is, dignity of an individual, even after he is dead,
cannot be left to the mercy of the journalists/reporters. The same, being
part of Article 21 , has to be protected. Besides, the other rights that
various individuals have under Article 21 also call for protection. The
measures we would thus propose to remedy the ills that have so long
remained unchecked for the lack of strict enforcement of the regulatory
control mechanism, in whatever manner it is available on paper, as well
as lack of proper understanding of the law of contempt of court and the
procedures governing the criminal justice system, are intended to
safeguard the dignity of an individual and his liberty ~ the basic
philosophy of our Constitution. We would do so, conscious of our own
limitations of not crossing the boundaries, while urging the media
houses not to step out of their boundaries too and thereby enter the grey
area beyond the proverbial 'Lakshman Rekha'. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 349. Having given our anxious consideration to all aspects of the
matter, we are inclined to the opinion that the press/media ought to
avoid/regulate certain reports/discussions/debates/interviews in
respect of and/or touching upon any on-going inquiry/investigation into
a criminal offence and that only those items are presented for
reading/viewing and otherwise perceiving through the senses which are
merely informative but in public interest instead of what, according to
the media, the public is interested in. No report/discussion/debate/
interview should be presented by the press/media which could harm the
interests of the accused being investigated or a witness in the case or
any such person who may be relevant for any investigation, with a view
to satiate the thirst of stealing a march over competitors in the field of
reporting. Accordingly, we direct the press/media to exercise restraint
and refrain from printing/displaying any news item and/or initiating
any discussion/debate/interview of the nature, as indicated hereunder: Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 (v) Printing photographs of an accused and thereby facilitating
 his identification; (vi) Criticizing the investigative agency based on half-baked
 information without proper research; (vii) Pronouncing on the merits of the case, including pre-judging
 the guilt or innocence qua an accused or an individual not
 yet wanted in a case, as the case may be; (viii) Recreating/reconstructing a crime scene and depicting how
 the accused committed the crime; (ix) Predicting the proposed/future course of action including
 steps that ought to be taken in a particular direction to
 complete the investigation; and (x) Leaking sensitive and confidential information from
 materials collected by the investigating agency;
 c. Acting in any manner so as to violate the provisions of the
 Programme Code as prescribed under section 5 of the CTVN Act
 read with rule 6 of the CTVN Rules and thereby inviting contempt
 of court; and
 d. Indulging in character assassination of any individual and thereby
 mar his reputation. 350. These are not intended to be exhaustive but indicative, and
any report carried by the print media or a programme telecast by a TV
channel, live or recorded, ought to be such so as to conform to the
Programme Code, the norms of journalistic standards and the Code of
Ethics and Broadcasting Regulations; in default thereof, apart from
action that could be taken under the prevailing regulatory mechanism,
the erring media house could make itself liable to face an action in
contempt, i.e., criminal contempt within the meaning of section 2(c) of
the CoC Act which, as and when initiated, would obviously have to be
decided by the competent court on its own merits and in accordance
with law. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 351. It has been urged on behalf of the media houses that on
diverse occasions, the guests are invited to speak and address the
audience on a particular topic during programmes which are telecast
live and, in such cases, it is difficult for the media houses to censor the
statements of such guests. What the media houses say could be true,
but that would not grant any speaker the license to either abuse or
defame any particular individual, who could be the target of the speech,
to tarnish his reputation in the eyes of the viewers or to indulge in
interference with and/or obstruction to administration of justice by such
public speaking. In case of the former, the targeted individual could sue
the media as well as the speaker for defamation, which must ordinarily
sound in damages but in case of the latter, both the media house and
the speaker may be proceeded against for criminal contempt. It would
not be enough for the media house to put up a disclaimer at the end of
the programme that it does not associate itself with the views of the
speaker and thereby evade liability. To obviate such situation, the media
houses would be well advised to inform, guide and advise the guest
speakers to refrain from making public utterances which are likely to
interfere with and/or obstruct administration of justice and thereby
attract contempt. The role of the anchor, in such cases, is also
important. It is for him/her to apply his/her mind and avoid the
programme from drifting beyond the permissible limits. Muting the
speaker if he flies off or shows tendency of flying off at a tangent could
be one of several ways to avoid embarrassment as well as contempt. 352. At the same time, while emphasizing on the need for a free,
fair, effective and meaningful investigation of an FIR disclosing
commission of cognizable offence by an accused ~ be it a celebrity or an
ordinary person ~ to be conducted by the investigative agency, we also
consider it appropriate to remind the investigative agencies that they are
entitled to maintain secrecy in course of investigation and are under no
obligation to divulge materials thus collected. If indeed there is leakage
or disclosure of materials, which has the potential of stifling a proper 248 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

investigation, it could pave the way for such information being laid
before the competent court having powers to punish for cri6minal
contempt under section 2(c) of the CoC Act and in an appropriate case,
for being dealt with in accordance with law. 353. That apart, one of the suggestions of Mr.Datar seems to us
to be worthful and hence, we observe that Mumbai Police as well as the
other investigating agencies may consider the desirability of appointing
an officer who could be the link between the investigator and the media
houses for holding periodic briefings in sensitive cases or incidents that
are likely to affect the public at large and to provide credible information
to the extent such officer considers fit and proper to disclose and answer
queries as received from the journalists/reporters but he must, at all
times, take care to ensure that secret and confidential
information/material collected during investigation, the disclosure
whereof could affect administration of justice, is not divulged. Such
officer, if at all appointed, would nonetheless be instructed to bear in
mind the decision of the Supreme Court in Rajendran Chingaravelu (supra). There, the Court warned of the growing tendency among
investigating officers (either police or other departments) to inform the
media, even before completion of investigation, that they have caught a
criminal or an offender and that such crude attempts to claim credit for
imaginary investigational breakthroughs should be curbed. The
investigating agency should refrain from such acts that would prejudice
not only the investigation but also the trial before the Court. We say no
more on this topic. 354. Finally, what remains for our consideration is Mr.Kamath's
suggestion that if any adverse order is passed by the UOI against an
erring news broadcaster for violation of the Programme Code and such
order has the effect of abridging the right guaranteed under Article
19(1)(a) , this Court may direct that the same as against the broadcaster
will remain in abeyance for a period of 15 days or so as to enable the 249 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

news broadcaster to approach the appropriate Court for relief. We do not
consider such suggestion worthy of acceptance. It is not open to the
High Courts to further legislate when a legislation is in place. The duty
of the High Court would be to interpret the law, if the occasion therefor
arises. It is only in exceptional cases where there is no legislation
covering a particular topic/subject but right of a subject is infringed or
threatened to be infringed that the court may consider attempting to
issue guidelines/directions to be followed till such time legislation in
that behalf is made. While we have ourselves suggested measures that
need to be followed so as to enforce the right to life of individuals
accused of criminal offences under investigation as well as laid down
guidelines for media reporting on criminal investigation at the pre-
chargesheet stage, the latter is with the obvious intent of marking the
'lakhsman rekha' within which the media must operate to avoid
contempt of court. However, in view of the provisions of the CTVN Act
and the CTVN Rules, it is considered unnecessary to make any direction
of the nature suggested by Mr.Kamath. 355. Question D is, thus, answered accordingly. CONCLUSIONS: 356. The answer to question A (supra) has dealt with the concern
expressed by the petitioner in this writ petition. Accordingly, we dispose
of the same on such terms as indicated therein. PIL (L) 3145 of 2020 357. Having regard to what we have expressed based on our
understanding of sections 2 and 3 of the CoC Act while answering
questions 1 and 2 (supra), we hold that the apprehension expressed in
its pursuit of justice by the petitioner ~ In Pursuit of Justice ~ in PIL (L)
3145 of 2020 is misplaced. However, we acknowledge the assistance 250 Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4

that the issue raised in this writ petition has rendered to us for
addressing the concern expressed in the other writ petitions; hence, we
direct that this writ petition shall stand disposed of. PIL (St.) 2339 of 2020 358. In view of our answers to questions 1 and 2 (supra), we see
no ground to entertain the prayers made by the petitioner in this writ
petition insofar as it relates to defining and narrowing the scope of the
term 'reasonable belief' in section 3(1) of the CoC Act or to delete the
same, being contrary to the object of the enactment, i.e., smooth
running of the administration of justice, as prayed. This petitioner too
has not challenged the Constitutional validity of section 3 of the CoC
Act; not that anything would have turned in her favour, if such a
challenge were laid for the reasons that we have assigned as aforesaid.
The prayers in PIL (St.) 2339 of 2020 are declined. This writ petition,
accordingly, stands dismissed. PIL NO. 1774 OF 2020 & PIL (ST.) NO.92252 OF 2020 359. In view of our discussions while answering questions 3 to 5
and B to D, these writ petitions too stand disposed of. Interim
Application (St.) No. 95156 of 2020 would not survive and stands
disposed of. 360. There shall be no order as to costs. 361 The findings/observations in this judgment are for the
purpose of adjudication of these writ petitions and are no reflection of
any expression on pending investigations with the respective
investigating agencies. As and when the matter enters the arena of the
judiciary, the jurisdictional criminal court shall proceed to decide the
points before it by drawing its own inferences and conclusions based on
the materials before it, uninfluenced by any finding/observation herein. Judgment-PILST.92252.2020+4 362. Before we part, we need to acknowledge the scholarship and
 industry of and the able assistance rendered by learned counsel who
 have addressed us across the Bar. We place on record our sincere
 appreciation for their efforts. We also ought to place on record the
 valuable guidance that we have received from the decisions rendered by
 the Delhi High Court, the Kerala High Court and the other High Courts
 which were placed before us. Absence of specific reference to each of
 such decisions in course of answering the questions arising for decision
 must not be construed as omission on our part to consider the same.
 We say so with respect that the enlightening discussion in all such
 decisions on media trials that impact the judicial process and the
 necessity to interfere only in exceptional cases, where rights of the
 accused are infringed, has deeply enriched us and lighted the correct
 path to be followed. Jayant V.
Salunke (Girish Kulkarni, J.) (Dipankar Datta, CJ.) Digitally signed by Jayant V. Salunke Date: 2021.01.18 14:36:39 +0530