1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr.MP(M) No. 59 of 2020
 Date of Decision: March 01, 2021

 . For the respondent: Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Additional Advocate General, with
 Mr. Ram Lal Thakur, Assistant Advocate General and Mr.

 Rajat Chauhan, Law Officer. On the allegations of online fraud, the petitioner is now apprehending

 arrest, came up before this Court under Section 438 CrPC, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. A perusal of the petition reveals that the petitioner straightaway filed

 the bail petition before High Court, which is permissible given the decision of a three
 Judges Bench of HP High Court, in Mohan Lal v Prem Chand , AIR 1980 HP 36,
 (Para 9 & 15), wherein the Full bench holds that a person can directly apply for an
 anticipatory bail or regular bail to the High Court without first invoking the
 jurisdiction of the Sessions Judge. 3. In Para -2 of the bail application, the petitioner declares having no
 criminal history. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the
 judgment? 4. Briefly, based on the complaint regarding deceitful surrendering of
 insurance policies, which led to cycling of money from the account of the petitioner.
 Based on these allegations, the Police registered the FIR mentioned above. . 5. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that during interim bail, the

 petitioner joined the investigation, and custodial investigation would serve no
 purpose whatsoever. The incarceration before the proof of guilt would cause grave

 injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. On the contrary, Ld. Additional Advocate General contends that if
 this Court is inclined to grant bail, then such a bond must be subject to very stringent

 conditions. 7. A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court granted interim protection to the
 bail petitioner vide order dated 7.1.2020. The petitioner is continuing on interim bail.
 Even today, the petitioner was directed to remain present in the concerned police

 station. Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, learned Additional Advocate General, says that the

 petitioner is present in the police station. Status report reveals that the amount of
 money received by the petitioner was Rs.2,27,335/- and the entire amount stands
 recovered. In the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner makes

 out a case for release on bail. 8. In the present case, the maximum sentence imposable for the offences

 mentioned in FIR attracts the application of the directions passed in Arnesh Kumar
 v. State of Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, (Para 13), wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court

 directed all the State Governments to instruct its police officers not to arrest
 automatically when the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term which

 may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years; whether with or
 without fine. 9. Given the above reasoning, the Court is granting bail to the petitioner,
 subject to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and irrespective
 of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 10. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMPM
 No. 1734 of 2020, after analysing judicial precedents, this Court observed that any
 Court granting bail with sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish
 surety bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to another. 11. Given above, the petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR
 mentioned above, subject to his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. Twenty-five
 thousand (INR 25,000/-), and shall furnish two sureties of a similar amount, to the

 . satisfaction of the Investigator. Before accepting the sureties, the Attesting Officer

 must satisfy that in case the accused fails to appear in Court, then such sureties are
 capable to produce the accused before the Court, keeping in mind the Jurisprudence

 behind the sureties, which is to secure the presence of the accused. 12. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid personal bond
 and fixed deposit(s) for Rs. Twenty-five thousand only (INR 25,000/-), made in

 favour of "Chief Judicial Magistrate, District Chamba H.P.," . 13. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed acceptance of

 the following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: Whenever the investigation occurs within the police premises, the petitioner
 shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let off before 5 PM, and shall not
 be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman treatment, etc. e) In addition to standard modes of processing service of summons, the
 concerned Court may serve or inform the accused about the issuance of
 summons, bailable and non-bailable warrants the accused through E-Mail (if
 any), and any instant messaging service such as WhatsApp, etc. (if any).
 [Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Re Cognizance for Extension of
 Limitation, Suo Moto Writ Petition I No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 48461/2020- July
 10, 2020]: 14. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any
 offence where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any
 condition as stipulated in this order, the State may move an appropriate application

 before this Court, seeking cancellation of this bail. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall
 continue to remain in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section 437-
 A of the CrPC. 15. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the

 petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail

 order, in vernacular and if not feasible, in Hindi. 16. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating
 fundamental, human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then

 for modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned application before
 this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the

 trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to modify or
 delete any condition. 17. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the
 Police or the investigating agency from further investigation per law. 18. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion
 on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 19. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that
 the accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 20. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for
 furnishing bonds, and any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along
 with case statusfrom the official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true
 copy. In case the attesting officer wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can
 also verify its authenticity and may download and use the downloaded copy for
 attesting bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. Copy Dasti. . Anoop Chitkara,
 Judge. March 01, 2021
 (R.Atal).