1. The Applicant has approached this Court, seeking
 anticipatory bail in connection with Crime No.453/2025 registered
 with Ambad Police Station, District Jalna for the offences
 punishable under Sections 316(4), 316(5), 318(4), 324(5), 336(3),
 338, 340(2), 339, 238 r/w 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023
 and Sections 52 and 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. 2. The First Information Report was filed by one Vilas
 Komatwar, stating that he had received a letter from the Sub
 Divisional Officer, Ambad, dated 18.08.2025. The letter informed
 him that the Three-Member Committee had submitted a report
 regarding the natural calamity compensation disbursement fraud
 2 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc

committed by accused persons at Ambad and Ghansavangi Taluka,
and authorized him to register an FIR against those found
responsible in the said report. 3. It is alleged that the State Government declared
compensation for farmers whose agricultural fields were affected by
natural calamities during the years 2022, 2023, and 2024,
including floods, heavy rainfall, unseasonal rainfall, drought, etc.,
to be disbursed to the affected farmers. Several complaints were
received at the Collector Office, Jalna, pertaining to the
disbursement of natural calamity compensation at the Tahsil Offices
of Ambad and Ghansavangi. The complaints mentioned the role of
the Village Revenue Officer, Gram Sevak, and Agricultural
Assistant, who allegedly colluded with each other to disburse
compensation to bogus farmers who were not eligible for such
benefits. In some cases, compensation was disbursed to farmers
who were not residents of the village, including villagers from
other Talukas and Districts. Agricultural fields of lesser
measurement were shown with inflated areas by forging the 7/12
extracts and by falsely showing fruit-bearing trees on barren land.
Some beneficiaries were allotted compensation twice. Taking into
consideration the aforesaid complaints, the Collector, Jalna, under
his supervision, formed a Three-Member Committee on 28.01.2025.
The said Committee conducted a detailed inquiry into the
 3 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc

complaints and submitted its report. In the FIR, 28 persons were
named, along with certain other unnamed persons who had acted
in collusion and misused the login ID of the Tahsildar and
committed fraud/misappropriation by disbursing compensation to
persons not entitled to receive the same. In some cases, even
Government lands were wrongly shown in forged 7/12 extracts of
villagers, thereby obtaining disaster relief compensation through
conspiracy by all the accused persons acting together thereby
cheating the Government. . Apart from the aforesaid two talukas, Ambad and
Ghansavangi, six Revenue Officers of the Tahsil Office, Ambad,
were also named who have colluded with the Village Revenue
Officer/Talathi and certain bogus beneficiaries, conspiring to
commit misappropriation with the intention of causing wrongful
loss to the Government and wrongful gain to themselves, thereby
cheating the Government. One of the Revenue Officers in the
Collector Office, Jalna, namely Mr. Dinesh Barad, was held
responsible for misusing the login ID and password of the
Tahsildar, Ambad. He allegedly connived with the other accused
persons and further provoked and instigated them to commit the
said crime. It is also alleged in the FIR that after getting
knowledge that an inquiry was being conducted into the fraud
committed in the disbursement of natural calamity compensation,
the accused persons destroyed the necessary evidence and the files
 4 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc

in the computers maintained by the Officers were deleted, which
could have assisted to prove their guilt. The three email ID's of
the Tahasil Office namely [email protected] ; [email protected] and [email protected] were tampered
with by all accused persons and thereafter the evidence were
destroyed. . Thus the aforesaid 28 persons and others are found to
have committed the misappropriation to the tune of
Rs.24,90,77,811/- by forging the documents and cheating the
Government and thereafter destroying the evidence. The
complainant therefore prayed for appropriate action against all the
accused persons. Thus the present FIR alleges that the
Talathis/Revenue Officers, Gram Sevaks, and Agricultural Assistants
caused wrongful loss to the Government and wrongful gain to
themselves by fabricating certain documents, inserting bogus names
of farmers, and disbursing compensation amounts to such bogus
farmers. The FIR further alleges that compensation was transferred
to fake and ineligible beneficiaries. 4. Heard the learned Counsel Mr. Bhagure alongwith
Assisting Counsel and the learned Government Pleader Mr. Girase. I
have gone through the documents relied upon by the learned
Counsel for the Applicant and also gone through the investigation
papers made available by the learned Government Pleader. 5 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc 5. The learned Counsel Mr. Bhagure for the Applicant
submits that the Applicant was Network Engineer and had no
control over uploading of data, scrutiny, sanction or disbursement.
The role of the Applicant was merely to collect the information in
excel-sheet as per the prescribed format and submit the same to
the higher officers. The Tahsildar, SDO and District Collector were
the authorities to approve, sanction and release the funds through
the MAHA-IT portal and direct beneficiary transfer system.
. It is further submitted that the District Collector Jalna
though has recorded the involvement of 102 persons in the alleged
misappropriation of Government funds, however the Applicant was
made a scapegoat and added as an accused only to protect the
higher officers. There is no proof to show the participation of the
Applicant in the commission of the crime. There is hardly any
ingredients made out for the offences alleged. The Applicant is
ready to cooperate with the investigation and has already assisted
the Inquiry Committee in resolving the crime. The Applicant is not
having any criminal antecedents and is ready to abide by any
conditions that may be imposed by this Court, if released on bail. 6. As against this, the learned Government Pleader
vehemently opposes the application on the ground that the
Applicant was working as a Network Engineer and was in control
of the entire system of the MAHA-IT portal and has carried out the
 6 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc

work of uploading the data which has then facilitated the
disbursement of compensation to the beneficiaries who were
entitled for. The Applicant was continuous touch in all the Talathis
involved in the said crime for uploading the bogus list of
beneficiaries. . It is further stated that there are statements recorded by
the Investigating Officer, wherein the role of the present Applicant
is clearly made out. The Applicant has received payments from the
bogus beneficiaries after they have received the compensation on
Phonepe App. The name of the Applicant was also listed as
beneficiary even though he was not entitled to receive any
compensation. The Applicant has also forwarded the list to the
arrested accused Sushil Jadhav on Whatsapp twice, thereby
insisting to include names of 19 bogus farmers who were not
entitled to receive compensation. The Applicant had also forwarded
the names of 150 bogus villagers from Govindpur, 809 bogus
villagers from Parner and 448 bogus villagers from Mardi on the
Whatsapp to the arrested accused Sushil Jadhav. The statements of
Ashwini Babhule, Balu Dudhmal, Somnath Sarfale and other
witnesses show involvement of the Applicant. Thus for proper
investigation of this crime, the custodial interrogation of the
Applicant is necessary. The Applicant is involved in the serious
offence, hence this is not a fit case to grant anticipatory bail. 7 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc 7. I have gone through the investigation papers submitted by
the learned Government Pleader for perusal of this Court. The
investigation papers reveal that the Applicant was working as a
Network Engineer at Tahsil Office, Ambad. The Applicant is alleged
to have inserted the names of his 9 near relatives and received
compensation in their names. The Applicant is alleged to have
received compensation in the name of his mother Vaishali and
father Vishwambhar and also received compensation in his own
name. The Applicant is also alleged to have prepared bogus 7/12
extracts for another co-accused Kalyansingh from village Sashte
Pimpalgaon and also prepared bogus 7/12 extracts for other
Talathis. The Applicant is also alleged to have uploaded 6 bogus
beneficiaries forwarded by Kotwal Sarfale. . The investigation further shows the statement of Babu
Dudhmal who had specifically stated that he has given six names
of bogus beneficiaries to the present Applicant for receiving
compensation and has paid an amount of Rs. 30,000/- on Phonepe
App. to the present Applicant. The Applicant has also forwarded
the list to the arrested accused Sushil Jadhav on Whatsapp twice,
thereby insisting to include names of 19 bogus farmers who were
not entitled to receive compensation. The Applicant had also
forwarded the names of 150 bogus villagers from Govindpur, 809
bogus villagers from Parner and 448 bogus villagers from Mardi on
the Whatsapp to the arrested accused Sushil Jadhav. The Applicant
 8 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc

is also alleged to have inserted 30 names of bogus beneficiaries
village Rohilagarh and Saresavanghi by sending the list on
Whatsapp to the arrested accused Sushil Jadhav. Thus the role of
the present Applicant is clearly made out from the investigation
papers also and hence the custodial interrogation of the Applicant
would be necessary to complete the investigation. The amount
involved is huge and requires investigation from various angles.
Economic offences are deep-rooted conspiracies involving loss of
public funds and have to be treated differently in the matter of
bail. 8. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nimmagadda
Prasad vs C.B.I., Hyderabad , (2013) 7 SCC 466, has held as under : 9 17.ABA-1697-2025.doc 9. The Applicant in connivance with other accused persons
has allegedly committed the misappropriation of huge amount by
misusing login ID of Tahsildar with the assistance of other accused
persons. . Thus looking to the nature of the allegations as reflected
in the FIR and also taking into consideration the material collected
by the Investigating Agency, I am not inclined to exercise the
discretion in favour of the present Applicant to grant anticipatory
bail. The application is therefore rejected. MEHROZ K. PATHAN
 JUDGE

Najeeb..