With reference to above subject, a case has been registered at
 C.E.N. police station, Bengaluru rural district. Crime No: The moment this is issued, the petitioner is at the doors of this

Court. Since the notice is issued under Section 91 of the Cr.P.C., I

deem it appropriate to notice Section 91 of the Cr.P.C. It reads as

follows: (Emphasis supplied) Section 91 of the Cr.P.C. permits summoning, to produce

documents and other things. Whenever a Court or any officer in- charge of a Police Station considers it necessary and desirable of

production of a document, the Court or the Officer may direct the

noticee to produce the same. Sub-section (3) mandates that

nothing in the Section will affect Sections 123 and 124 of the Indian

Evidence Act or Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891 . 10. The petitioner claims to be regulated under the 2007 Act. It therefore, becomes necessary to notice certain provisions of the

2007 Act. They read as follows: (Emphasis supplied) Section 15 mandates that subject to provisions of sub-section (2)

any document or information obtained by the Reserve Bank of India

shall be kept confidential and information that is necessary for

protecting integrity, effectiveness or security of the payment

system should be adhered, except in public interest. Section 22 mandates that the payment gateway or any entity regulated under

the 2007 Act has a duty to keep the documents in the payment

system confidential except, where such disclosure is required under

the provisions of this Act and the disclosure is made with the

express or implied consent of the system participant concerned or

where such disclosure is in obedience to the orders passed by a

Court or a statutory authority in exercise of powers conferred by a 16 statute. Sub-section (2) of Section 22 makes the provisions of 1891

Act applicable. Section 32 has overriding effect over other

enactments. 11. Since Section 22 makes 1891 Act applicable, I deem it

appropriate to notice certain provisions of the Bankers' Book

Evidence Act, 1891 . They read as follows: (1-A) "corporation" means any body corporate established by
 any law for the time being in force in India and includes
 the Reserve Bank of India, the State Bank of India and
 any subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India
 (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 ]; (2) "bank" and "banker" means-- (a) any company or corporation carrying on the
 business of banking, (b) any partnership or individual to whose books the
 provisions of this Act shall have been extended as
 hereinafter provided, (c) any post office savings bank or money order office; (3) "bankers' books" include ledgers, day-books, cash- books, account-books and all other records used in
 the ordinary business of the bank, whether these
 records are kept in written form or stored in a
 micro film, magnetic tape or in any other form of
 mechanical or electronic data retrieval mechanism,
 either onsite or at any offsite location including a
 back-up or disaster recovery site of both;]

(4) 'legal proceeding' means,-- (i) any proceeding or inquiry in which evidence is or
 may be given; Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or under any
 other law for the time being in force for the
 collection of evidence, conducted by a police officer
 or by any other person (not being a law for the
 time being in force; (5) "the court" means the person or person before whom a
 legal proceeding is held or taken; (6) "Judge" means a Judge of a High Court; (7) "trial" means any hearing before the Court at which
 evidence is taken; and

(8) "certified copy" means when the books of a bank,-- (a) are maintained in written form, a copy of any entry
 in such books together with a certificate written at
 the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such
 entry, that such entry is contained in one of the
 ordinary books of the bank and was made in the
 usual and ordinary course of business and that
 such book is still in the custody of the bank, and
 where the copy was obtained by a mechanical or
 other process which in itself ensured the accuracy
 of the copy, a further certificate to that effect, but 18 where the book from which such copy was
 prepared has been destroyed in the usual course of
 the bank's business after the date on which the
 copy had been so prepared, a further certificate to
 that effect, each such certificate being dated and
 subscribed by the principal accountant or manager
 of the bank with his name and official title; and (b) consist of printouts of data stored in a floppy, disc,
 tape or any other electro-magnetic data storage
 device, a printout of such entry or a copy of such
 printout together with such statements certified in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 2-A.] (c) a printout of any entry in the books of a bank
 stored in a micro film, magnetic tape or in any
 other form of mechanical or electronic data
 retrieval mechanism obtained by a mechanical or
 other process which in itself ensures the accuracy
 of such printout as a copy of such entry and such
 printout contains the certificate in accordance with
 the provisions of Section 2-A.
 ... ... ... 4. Mode of proof of entries in bankers' books.--
Subject to the provisions of this Act, a certified copy of any
entry in a banker's book shall in all legal proceedings be
received as prima facie evidence of the existence of such entry,
and shall be admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions
and accounts therein recorded in every case where, and to the
same extent as, the original entry itself is now by law
admissible, but not further or otherwise. 5. Case in which officer of bank not compellable to
produce books.--No Officer of a bank shall in any legal
proceeding to which the bank is not a party be
compellable to produce any bankers' book the contents of
which can be proved under this Act, or to appear as a
witness to prove the matters, transactions and accounts
therein recorded, unless by order of the Court or a Judge
made for special cause. 6. Inspection of books by order of Court or Judge.--
(1) On the application of any party to a legal proceeding
the Court or a Judge may order that such party be at
liberty to inspect and take copies of any entries in a
banker's book for any of the purposes of such proceeding,
or may order the bank to prepare and produce, within a
time to be specified in the order, certified copies of all
such entries, accompanied by a further certificate that no
other entries are to be found in the books of the bank
relevant to the maters in issue in such proceeding, and
such further certificate shall be dated and subscribed in
manner herein before directed in reference to certified
copies. (2) An order under this or the preceding sections
may be made either with or without summoning the
bank, and shall be served on the bank three clear days
(exclusive of bank holidays) before the same is to be
obeyed, unless the Court or Judge shall otherwise direct. (3) The bank may at any time before the time
limited for obedience to any such order as aforesaid
either offer to produce their books at the trial or give
notice of their intention to show cause against such
order, and thereupon the same shall not be enforced
without further order. ... ... ... 8. Order of court to be construed to be order made
by specified officer.--In the application of Section 5 , 6 , 7 to
any investigation or inquiry referred to in sub-clause (iii) of
clause (4) of Section 2 , the order of a court or a Judge referred
to in the said section shall be construed as referring to an order
made by an officer of a rank not lower than the rank of a
Superintendent of Police as may be specified in this behalf by
the appropriate Government. Explanation.--In this section, 'appropriate Government'
means the Government by which the police officer or any other
person conducting the investigation or inquiry is employed." (Emphasis supplied) 20 The vehement contention of the petitioner is inspection of books

under the 1891 Act is only after the Court passes an order. 12. The Government of India, in exercise of powers conferred

under Section 87 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 has

notified Rules. Rule 3 of the Information Technology (Intermediary

Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2011, which deals

with due diligence by an intermediary, mandates that information

should be given within 72 hours of receipt of an order from the

Investigating Officer. Section 87 of the IT Act and Rule 3 of the

Rules, read as follows: 13. Today, the conventional crimes have receded and

new age crimes have sprung in large number. The new age

crimes are cyber crimes - the clandestine modern offences. Such offences demand swift, targeted and effective

response. The police must be empowered within the limits

of law to unearth digital footprints that could otherwise 23 vanish. Therefore, while privacy as contended by the

petitioner should be maintained, it cannot be wielded as a

shield against lawful investigation. 14. The petitioner cannot contend being a digital system

payment gateway that it will not divulge any information as sought

by the Investigating Officer. As observed hereinabove, the

petitioner places much reliance on 2007 Act as a protective shield

for non-divulgence of information. Section 22 of the 2007 Act, no

doubt, permits a payment gateway to keep the documents involved

in payment system confidential. Exceptions are carved out in the

statute itself. The provision itself carves out that except where such

disclosure would be required in obedience to the orders passed by

the Court of competent jurisdiction or a statutory authority in

exercise of power conferred under the statute. The Investigating

Officer is a statutory authority, who is acting in terms of the powers

conferred under the Cr.P.C ., while conducting investigation. Therefore, the submission that the documents cannot be divulged is

only noted to be rejected, as the provision on which heavy reliance

is placed itself permits that all information should be divulged when 24 sought for by a statutory authority under the statute. Submissions

are made with regard to the Act having overriding effect under Section 32 . Even if it is construed that 2007 Act has overriding

effect, the Act itself permits that the information should be

furnished. Therefore, the submission on the basis of the 2007 Act

tumbles down. 15. The other Act on which reliance is placed is 1891 Act. The

1891 Act mandates that Officer of the Bank cannot be compelled to

produce books except when inspection of books is sought by a

Court or a Judge. Section 2(1) and 2(2) of the 1891 Act defines a

Company and a Banker. The petitioner is a Company registered

under the Companies Act . Section 2(4) defines a legal proceeding. Legal proceeding is one by which an inquiry in which evidence may

be required or in which any investigation or inquiry under the Cr.P.C ., is contemplated. Therefore, the notice under Section 91 of

the Cr.P.C., in pursuance to an investigation or inquiry can be

construed to be a notice under Section 2(4) of the 1891 Act, except

that Section 91 of the Cr.P.C., notice is issued by the Police

Inspector, but the Act mandates of the rank of a Superintendent of 25 Police. That will not in any way vitiate the action taken by

Investigating Officer. The Rules notified by Government of India

also mandate that any intermediary not later than 72 hours should

provide information. Therefore, the submission of the learned

counsel for the petitioner that 2007 Act has overriding effect on

1891 Act and does not permit information to be divulged are all

submissions which do not hold water, as those very enactments

either of the year 1891 or 2007 or even the Rules clearly provide

production of information. 16. It now becomes apposite to refer to certain judgments of

constitutional Courts interpreting the interplay between Section 91 of the Cr.P.C., and the 1891 Act. The High Court of Bombay way

back in 1937 in the case of THE CENTRAL BANK OF INDIA v. P.D. SHAMDASANI1 has elucidated that 1891 Act being a special

Act dealing with Bankers Books and Cr.P.C ., being an enactment for

procedure of conduct of investigation or trial cannot be in conflict

with each other. The High Court of Madras considered this very 1 1937 SCC OnLine Bom 44 26 issue of interplay between the Cr.P.C ., and 1891 Act in the case of A.PONNUSWAMY v. STATE2 and has held as follows: ".... .... .... 16. Mr. Pitchai referred to a decision in Textile Traders
 Syndicate v. State of U.P. , AIR 1960 Allahabad 405 wherein
 single Judge of the Allahabad High Court considered in case in
 which a similar situation arose where the investigating officer
 issued a prohibitory order to the bank not to pay the amount to
 the accused as the said amount standing to the credit of the
 accused was seized under Section 102 , Cr.P.C. The learned
 Judge held that it cannot be done since the property was
 unidentifiable and the actual money was already parted with
 and the amount was lying with the Bank as its own money
 which could be paid back to the accused whenever demanded.
 According to the view of the learned Judge, unless an
 identifiable movable property was in the possession of the
 accused, the same could not be seized under Section 550 of the
 Old Code. The said view was not accepted by a Division Bench
 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case above
 referred to. Mr. Pitchai then referred to the decision
 in PrajaSehkari Udyog, Bharatpur Ltd. v. State of
 Rajasthan 1979 Crl.L.R. (Raj.) 645 and submitted that the word
 'seizure' in Section 102 contemplates actual physical possession
 and, therefore, a restraint order under it by investigating officer
 is not warranted. Further he referred to the decision in Swaran
 Sabharwal v. Commissioner of Police , 1988 Crl.L.J. 241 wherein
 the Delhi High Court held that even assuming that a Bank
 Account is property within the meaning of the said section, it
 should be property "found under circumstances which create the
 suspicion of the commission of an offence to justify action under Section 102 . According to the learned Judges, this section would
 apply where a police officer comes across certain property in
 circumstances which create in his mind a suspicion that an
 offence has been committed. With great respect to the learned
 Judges, we are unable to share the said view for the reasons
 already discussed above. 1990 SCC OnLine Mad 160 27 In order to understand the real scope of Section 102 ,
Cr.P.C. dealing with the power of a police officer to seize certain
property, we have to necessarily refer to Chapter 34 in the Code
dealing with disposal of property, as the meaning of the term
'property' has to be understood in a harmonious manner taking
into consideration all the provisions contained in the Code. The
seizure of property contemplated under Section 102 , Cr.P.C. is
certainly reflected in Chapter 34 of the Code as is seen from
Section 457 under which seizure of property by any police
officer has to be reported to a Magistrate and such Magistrate is
authorised to make such order as he thinks fit respecting the
disposal of such property. This provision deals with the orders
that are passed with reference to property recovered during
investigation and before the commencement of trial or enquiry.
On the other hand, Section 451 , Cr.P.C. deals with powers of
the Magistrate to pass orders for custody and disposal of
property pending trial in certain cases. After the completion of
the trial, the Magistrate has to pass an order under Section 452 Cr.P.C. for disposal of that property. The Magistrate are
empowered with such jurisdiction not only because the property
is produced before them or in their custody but also because it
is the property regarding which any offence appeared to have
been committed or which was used for the commission of any
offence. It provides for delivery of any property to any person
claiming to be entitled to possession thereof. Sub-section (5) of
that section provides that the term 'property' includes not only
such property regarding which an offence appears to have been
committed as was originally in the possession of the accused but
also any property into or for which the same may have been
converted or exchanged, and anything acquired by such
conversion or exchange, whether immediately or otherwise. This
sub-section clearly indicates that the Magistrates exercising
power under this provision have jurisdiction to dispose of the
money available in the Bank account if it is established that the
property which was the subject matter of an offence has been
subsequently converted or exchanged, whether immediately or
otherwise Section 453 , Cr.P.C. provides for payment to innocent
purchaser of money found on accused. Under Section 456 ,
Cr.P.C. the Magistrates have power to restore possession of
immovable property to a person who has been dispossessed of
any immovable property after evicting by force, if necessary,
any other person who may be in possession of the property. As
rightly pointed out by Padmini Jesudurai, J. in modern days 28 where commission of white collar crimes and bank frauds are
increasing, interpreting the term 'property' in Section 102 Cr.P.C. in such a way as to exclude money in a Bank would
certainly have the effect of placing unnecessary hurdles in the
process of investigation into such crimes. The very object of the Criminal Procedure Code would be defeated if such a narrow
construction is placed on certain terms found in the Code. The
object of these provisions is only to detect crimes and effectively
deal with criminals. No one can be permitted to evade the
process of law by resorting to hypertechnical interpretations to
the provisions contained in the Code. We fail to understand as
to why the power available to the police to seize the cash in the
hands of the accused is not available for seizing the bank
account which in effect reflects the money obtained by
commission of a crime. The principle that the relationship
between a banker and a customer is that of borrower and
a lender cannot be stretched too far and the said principle
has no application in so far as the exercise of the power
conferred on the police for investigating into crimes is
concerned. The principle of a debtor and a creditor
applicable in the case of transactions with a Bank stands
on an entirely different basis and it is a peculiar
relationship existing between a banker and a customer
and it will have no application in a case where money
obtained by committing a crime is deposited in a bank
and the same is available in the accounts of an accused
person. It should be noted that the right of a customer as
against his banker is not the subject matter here. But we
are concerned with the power of the State to seize
property involved in a crime. Therefore, on a
consideration of the ratio laid down in R.K. Dalmia's
case above referred to and the provisions contained in
Chapter 34 of the Code, we are inclined to hold that
money in a bank account is property for the purpose of Section 102 Cr.P.C." (Emphasis supplied) 29 The High Court of Madras holds that relationship between the

banker and the customer or the borrower and the lender cannot be

stretched too far to contend that the police investigation into the

crimes cannot be exercised under those enactments. 17. The High Court of Kerala in the case of KATTABOMMAN

TRANSPORT CORPORATION LIMITED v. STATE BANK OF

TRAVANCORE3 , has held as follows: ".... .... .... 12. Section 5 of the Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891
 mentions the cases in which an officer of the bank should not be
 compellable to produce books. Section 6 , however, mentions the
 cases in which inspection of books could be ordered by a Court
 of a Judge. That Section reads as follows: It is, therefore, clear that on the application of any party
to a legal proceeding the Court or a Judge could order
such inspection as provided by Section 6 of the Bankers'
Books Evidence Act, 1891. But the Court has to take
certain precautions as laid down by a Full Bench of the
Bombay High Court in Central Bank of
India v. Shamdasani , AIR 1938 Bom 33. In that case,
Beaumont, C.J. observed that the Bank has a statutory
right under Sec. 6 of the Bankers' Books Evidence Act,
1891 to object to any order directing inspection of their
books though the order is made under S. 94 of the
Criminal P.C., 1898 (corresponding to Sec. 91 of the
Criminal Procedure Code, 1973). It is necessary to hear
the bank before any order is made under the provisions
of the Criminal P.C. It is also observed that a prima facie
case must be made out for such inspection of the bank
accounts and that the Court should not order inspection
as a matter of course in every case. Otherwise there is a
danger of the provision being abused by business rivals.
The effect of the judgment of the Bombay High Court is of
two-fold -- (1) notice must be given to the bank before
any inspection is ordered and (2) before such notice is
given, the Court must come to a prima facie conclusion
that the facts of the case justify an inspection." (Emphasis supplied) 31 The High Court of Kerala interprets Section 5 of the 1891 Act which

mandates that the Officer of the Bank should not be compelled to

produce books, holding that under Section 94 of the Cr.P.C., 1898,

at the time of investigation, a Banker cannot contend that he would

not divulge information. I am in respectful agreement with the

elucidation of the High Courts of Bombay, Madras and Kerala, which

affirms statutory safeguards under 1891 Act, would not immunise

institutions from investigatory summons when criminality

suspected. The duty to protect data must yield, where public

interest and criminal investigation intersect. 18. In view of the statutory framework, the elucidation of law

of the aforesaid High Courts and the aforesaid reasons, I deem it

appropriate to hold: (a) that the petitioners contention of absolute

immunity under disclosure under the 2007 Act and the 1891 Act

does not withstand judicial scrutiny; (b) the notice under Section 91 of the Cr.P.C. though requires to be specific and not a fishing

expedition, is not per se illegal on the suspicion of the police to a

money trail, which has a link between several accounts, in the facts

of the case and (c) the power of the Investigating Officer acting as

a statutory authority to issue a notice under Section 91 of the 32 Cr.P.C . for the purpose of summoning the document of a

intermediary is within the bounds of law. 19. In the light of the preceding analysis, the submissions of

the learned counsel for the petitioner that information that is to be

kept confidential need not be divulged, cannot be accepted. The

protection of consumer privacy cannot eclipse the lawful

imperative of investigating officers to secure evidence and

take the investigation to its logical conclusion. 'Confidentiality

must coexist with accountability'. 20. Finding no merit in the petition, except the observations

made in the course of the order, the petition stands rejected. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE
bkp
CT:MJ