1. The petitioner invokes the inherent jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code inter alia exploring the

following prayer: 2. The petitioner submitted that all of a sudden on 24.03.2024 it

came to know that the Opposite Party No.4-Bank has debit frozen their

current Account No.232000000027. At the time of freezing of the

account, the account was holding an amount of Rs.9,87,48,844/-. The

debit-freezing of their bank account is an outcome of an arbitrary and

colourable exercise of power by Opposite Party Nos.2 and 3. It was

contended by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner that the

Opposite Party No.3 issued a notice dated 18.03.2024 through email to

the Opposite Party No.4 asking the said Opposite Party to freeze the

account of the petitioner. The petitioner was not put to notice regarding

such freezing of the account and the petitioner had no clue till the

account was frozen. After the copy of email was made available to the

petitioner by the Opposite Party No.4, the banker of the petitioner, it

came to know that on the pretext of some preliminary enquiry being Page 2 of 11 initiated by the Opposite Party No.3, the Opposite Party No.4 was

directed to debit freeze the account till the enquiry is over. The mail

addressed to the banker of the petitioner did not even disclose the

particulars of any case registered against the petitioner or for that matter

against any other accused persons. Therefore, the petitioner challenges

the arbitrary action of the Opposite Parties primarily on the following

grounds: 3. Heard Mr. Janakalyan Das, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the petitioner and Mr. P.K. Maharaj, learned Additional Standing

Counsel appearing for the State-Opposite Parties. 4. Mr. Das, learned Senior Counsel submitted that the petitioner is

running genuine business engaged in trading and investment of Virtual

Digital Assets (VDA) and is one of the leading VDA exchanges in the

country. It operates under the brand name of 'MUDREX' and has been

carrying on the business since 2018. The petitioner's Company is a

registered entity with the Financial Intelligence Unit, Ministry of

Finance, Government of India and is also a Reporting Entity as per the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . The petitioner introduced

its first VDA in the year 2020. Therefore, the petitioner's Company has Page 4 of 11 been following and complying all the statutory requirements. The

Purported Victim purchased VDAs worth Rs.90,000/- and placed a

transfer request from the digital wallet of the petitioner to another

external digital wallet. The Purported Victim thereafter wrote to the

petitioner for reversal of the said transaction. The petitioner informed

that the transfer was an external transaction. Therefore, reversal was not

possible as it would be beyond the control of the petitioner. The

Purported Victim appears to have filed a complaint with Opposite Party

Nos.2 and 3. The details of the complaint have not been made available

to the petitioner as yet. In the context of the enquiry to the complaint

made by the Purported Victim, Opposite Party No.3 has issued the

impugned notice to the Bank for debit-freezing. Therefore, learned

counsel for the petitioner submitted that the dispute is pertaining to a

transaction of Rs.90,000/- and the account carries more than Rs.9 crores.

In that view of the matter, debit-freezing the entire account in the guise

of an enquiry pertaining to a dispute of Rs.90,000/- is absolutely

arbitrary. As such, the account needs to be de-frozen. Page 5 of 11 5. Learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the judgment of Kerala

High Court in Mohammad Enamul Haque v. Central Bureau of

Investigation , reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Ker 22772 and emphasized

on paragraph-8 which reads as under: 6. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner further relied upon the

judgment of Telangana High Court in Fone Paisa Payment Solutions

Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Telangana, Crl. R.C. No.857 of 2022 which held as

under: 7. While relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shento Varghese v. Julfikar Husen & Others , reported in 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 895, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that the Opposite

Party No.3 was statutorily bound to inform the seizure forthwith to the

Jurisdictional Magistrate. He relied upon paragraphs-22 to 24 of the said

judgment which read as under: 8. The main crux of the argument of the ld. Senior Counsel for the

petitioner is that the Opposite Party No.3 has not complied with the

mandate of Section 102 of Cr.P.C. Therefore, the seizure in the form of

freezing of the account at the stage of preliminary enquiry is bad in law.

The petitioner has also relied upon many judgments to urge before this

Court that non-supply of the particulars of the case in which the enquiry

is going on and on the strength of which the account has been frozen, is

also violative of his fundamental rights. 9. Per contra, Mr. Maharaj, learned counsel for the State-Opposite

Parties has submitted that the petition is not maintainable as it does not

disclose any cause of action. Mr. Maharaj filed a detailed written note of Page 8 of 11 submission, paragraphs-3 to 7 of which are relevant to be reproduced

hereunder: 10. The contention raised by the petitioner in the present petition has

been well answered by Mr. P.K. Maharaj in his written note of

submission. It emerges from the contentions raised by both the parties

that there is an F.I.R. already registered in pursuance of which the

seizure has been made. In compliance with the provisions of Section 102 of Cr.P.C., freezing of the account of the petitioner has already been

intimated to the Jurisdictional Magistrate. The investigation of the case is

still on. It appears, there are 66 complaints received by the Investigating

Agency and investigation is still on. So far, fraudulent transaction of

Rs.43 crores has come to light. Therefore, I am not inclined to accept the

argument of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner at

this stage and accordingly I am not inclined to entertain this petition.

However, suffice it to say that since the petition has been filed at the

very threshold when there was no information available to the petitioner

except the impugned email addressed by Opposite Party No.3 to Page 10 of 11 Opposite Party No.4, the petitioner is granted liberty to move fresh

 application before the appropriate court in accordance with law. If such

 application is moved, the same shall be considered on its own merit as

 expeditiously as possible, because the entire business of the petitioner

 has been seriously affected due to freezing of the Account. 11. With the above observation, the CRLMC is disposed of. .................. S.S. Mishra
 (Judge)

 The High Court of Orissa, Cuttack
 Dated the 20thJune, 2024/Asish Kumar Kar, ADR-cum-Addl. Principal Secretary Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: ASISH KUMAR KAR Designation: ADR-cum-Addl. Principal Secretary Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 11-Jul-2024 16:54:10 Page 11 of 11