% 30.05.2025
 I.A. 14237/2025 (Exemption from pre-litigation mediation) 1. Vide the present application under Section 12A of the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015, read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
 1908 ( CPC ), the plaintiffs seek exemption from pre-litigation mediation. 2. Considering the averments made in the present application, as also
 since the plaintiffs are seeking ex parte ad interim injunction in an
 accompanying application, and in view of the judgment passed by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi 2024 (5)
 SCC 815, which has been followed by a Division Bench this Court in CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 1 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24 Chandra Kishore Chaurasia v. R. A. Perfumery Works Private Limited 2022:DHC:4454-DB, the plaintiffs are exempted from instituting pre-
 litigation mediation. 3. Accordingly, the present application stands disposed of.
 I.A. 14240/2025 ( Section 149 CPC) 4. Vide the present application, plaintiff seek time of 30 days for filing
 the requisite Court fee and one-time process fee. 5. The learned counsel for the plaintiff is granted two days to file the
 requisite Court fee and one-time process fee. 6. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 14236/2025 (Additional Document) 7. Vide the present application under Order XI Rule 1(4) read with Section 151 of the CPC, the plaintiffs seek leave of this Court to file
 additional documents. 8. The plaintiffs shall be at liberty to file additional documents at a
 later stage, albeit, after initiating appropriate steps, strictly as per the
 provisions of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 read with Section 151 of
 the CPC and the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 9. Accordingly, the present application stands disposed of.
 I.A. 14239/2025 (Seeking exemption from issuing notice to D-46 to 47) 10. Vide the present application filed under Section 80, read with Section 151 of the CPC, the plaintiffs seek exemption from the
 requirement of advance service upon the defendant nos.46 and 47, namely
 Department of Telecommunications ('DoT') and Ministry of Electronics
 and Information Technology ('MEITY') respectively, on the ground that
 no formal remedy/ relief as prescribed under the Copyright Act, 1957 CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 2 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 ('Act of 1957'), is being claimed against them, as also since they are only
 being arrayed to ensure compliance with any orders that may be passed by
 this Court. 11. For the reasons stated in the present application, as also taking into
 account the aforesaid factors, and since it would be in the interest of
 justice, the plaintiffs are granted exemption from effecting advance
 service upon the aforesaid defendant nos.46 and 47. 12. Accordingly, the present application stands disposed of.
 I.A. 14238/2025 (Seeking leave to file videos in a pen drive) 13. Vide the present application under Section 151 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908, the plaintiffs seek permission to file videos in a pen
 drive. 14. In terms of Rule 24 of Chapter XI of the Delhi High Court (Original
 Side) Rules 2018, let the electronic record by way of an encrypted pen
 drive medium with a hash value in a non-edited form be filed before the
 Registry within a period of four weeks. 15. Let the same accordingly form a part of the record of the present
 suit by way of an electronic folder in such a manner that it can be opened
 to view by this Court as and when required. Also let the hash value be
 kept separately by the Registry on the file. 16. Accordingly, the present application stands disposed of
 CS(COMM) 578/2025 17. The plaintiffs, by way of the present plaint, seeks permanent
 injunction, passing off, violation of common law rights, misappropriation
 of personality, publicity rights, damages, rendition of accounts, etc, as also
 appropriate directions to the arrayed authorities. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24 18. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 19. Upon filing of the process fee, issue summons of the suit to the
 defendants through all permissible modes returnable before the learned
 Joint Registrar on 03.09.2025. 20. The summons shall state that the written statement(s) be filed by the
 defendants within a period of thirty days from the date of the receipt of the
 summons. Written statement(s) be filed by the defendants along with
 affidavit of admission/ denial of documents of the plaintiffs, without
 which the written statement(s) shall not be taken on record. 21. Replication thereto, if any, be filed by the plaintiffs within a period
 of fifteen days from the date of receipt of written statement(s). The said
 replication, if any, shall be accompanied by with affidavit of admission/
 denial of documents filed by the defendant, without which the replication
 shall not be taken on record within the aforesaid period of fifteen days. 22. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any document(s), the
 same shall be sought and given within the requisite timelines. 23. List before the learned Joint Registrar for marking exhibits of
 documents on 03.09.2025. It is made clear that if any party unjustifiably
 denies any document(s), then it would be liable to be burdened with costs.
 I.A. 14235/2025 (Stay) 24. The present application has been filed seeking a temporary
 injunction against defendant nos. 1-41 and 48, and their associated persons
 acting on their behalf, by restraining them from infringing upon, in any
 manner whatsoever, the personality and publicity rights of the plaintiff
 no.1 i.e. name, likeness, image, voice, and any other aspects of his
 persona which are solely and exclusively associated with the plaintiff no.1 CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 4 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 ("plaintiff's personality rights"). 25. As per the pleadings, plaintiff no.1 (Sadguru) is a globally revered
 spiritual leader/ yogi/ mystic/ public figure with millions of followers
 across the globe and has been preaching yoga and spirituality since 1984.
 The plaintiff no.2 (Isha Foundation) is a non-profit trust established by
 plaintiff no.1 vide Trust Deed dated 07.01.1992, for disseminating
 spiritual knowledge and teaching yoga/ meditation to people across the
 globe, both physically and via the internet. Further, the plaintiff no.1 has
 acquired considerable recognition qua spiritual teachings (Isha Kriya),
 projects (Cauvery Calling), books (Inner Engineering: A Yogi's Guide to
 Joy), and overall initiative taken for the betterment of humanity. 26. Additionally, the plaintiff no.1 has also received three presidential
 awards from different Presidents and has also been awarded the 2nd
 highest civilian award i.e., the 'Padma Vibhushan' by the Government of
 India in 2017 and also has a significant following on social media.
 Moreover, the plaintiff no.1 has regularly been invited to speak at leading
 international forums such as the World Peace Summit at the United
 Nations, the World Economic Forum, UNESCO, TED events, Oxford
 University, Stanford University, and Harvard University. Therefore, the
 plaintiff no.1 has earned a tremendous reputation and goodwill amongst
 the general public, globally. 27. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs submits that in December
 2024, the plaintiffs first became aware of the infringing activities, i.e.
 unlawful usage of the plaintiff's personality rights by the defendantsnos.1-
 41, which are 'rogue websites' ("primary defendants"). The said
 infringing activities are executed by creating, uploading, publishing, CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 5 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 streaming online content by using modern technology and AI tools to
 unauthorizedly morph and doctored the plaintiff no. 1's voice and
 discourses/ speeches/ interview(s) to, inter alia, create deep fakes, in the
 nature of false, misleading and unlawful images, audio-visual
 advertisements/ videos ("impugned content"). Moreover, the impugned
 content is aimed at perpetuating a financial scam by initiating commercial
 transactions and/or promoting and selling purported services for gaining
 traction on social media through AI-generated motivational and
 inspirational talks/ speeches purported to be originating from plaintiff
 no.1. 28. Pertinently, on 10.05.2025 and 13.05.2025, the representatives of
 the plaintiff no.1, intimated, via mail, the online website YouTube to take
 down the impugned content as the same violates the Rule 3(1)(b) and Rule
 3(2)(b) of the IT Rules, 2021, Section 66D of the Information Technology
 Act, 2000, Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and YouTube's
 own Synthetic Media and Impersonation Policies. On similar lines, the
 said intimation also states that recently, YouTube took down a few
 impugned content following a binding order from the Grievance Appellate
 Committee in Appeal No. 960/2025 dated 12.03.2025. 29. Considering that the plaintiffs are seeking relief against the primary
 defendants, their roles and modus operandi are essential to be reproduced
 and the same are given as under; 29.1 Defendant nos.1-2 (Financial Scam)
 a. The defendant no.1 is the registrant of the websites
 (<expressindia9510.xyz/> and <newstoday0124.xyz>), and the said
 websites carry fake news reports, i.e, detention of the plaintiff no.1 and his CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 6 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 followers advocating for his freedom. These infringing actions are done to
 induce the public to download/ register with the said platform. b. The said defendant no.1 also created a fake interview titled the
 "SKAVLAN SHOW", whereby the plaintiff no.1 states that he is earning
 significant amount of money from the platform 'Trendtastic Prism'.
 Further, both the aforesaid websites redirect to other web pages offering
 registrations on the 'Trendtastic Prism' platform, which purports itself as
 an 'investment' or 'trading platform' where users can earn money and this
 activity is done by redirecting the users to the sub-domains and the main
 domain name is purposefully kept inactive or inaccessible. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 c. The defendant no.2 is an X/ Twitter account, promoting its NFT
 ("3rdEyeNFT") through an AI-generated/ animated avatar of plaintiff no.
 1 prominently using his name, distinct attire, voice, and articulation style,
 and other personality traits. The learned counsel for the plaintiff submits
 that the plaintiff no.1 is not associated with the defendant nos.1-2 in any
 manner and has not given permission to use the plaintiff's personality
 rights. 29.2 Defendant nos.3-4 (Product Scam)
 a. Defendant no.3 is involved in the unauthorised usage of the plaintiff
 no.1's image and voice to promote via Instagram videos, its product
 "Afina", a product for hair strength and health, where the plaintiff is
 shown to tout the said product. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 b. Similarly, defendant no.4 is engaged in selling books on the
 "Pregnancy journey/ Garbhyatra". In doing so, defendant no. 4 is
 prominently displaying the name, image, videos of plaintiff no.1. with an
 attempt to create a false association between the product and the plaintiff
 no.1

 29.3 Defendant nos. 5-41(Infringing Youtube Videos)
 a. The defendants are engaged in disseminating spiritual contents such
 as speeches, spiritual discourse, lectures etc., by portraying themselves as
 a repertoire or collection of genuine teachings and motivational speeches
 of the plaintiff no. 1, through the use of his AI-generated voice, image and CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 9 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 likeness and pertinently most of the infringing websites are solely
 dedicated to the plaintiff no.1. 30. It is submitted that the infringing activities of the primary
 defendants are executed on the platforms of the defendant nos. 42-45, it is
 imperative for an effective order to disclose the identities of creators,
 operators, and administrators of the infringing websites/ pages / accounts. Further, defendant nos. 46-47 are Department of
 Telecommunications("DoT") and Ministry of Electronics & Information
 Technology ("MEITY"), and they are also being impleaded to ensure
 effective implementation of the effective order as may be passed, and
 likewise defendant no. 48 (Ashok Kumar(s)/ John Doe(s)), who may
 infringing the plaintiff's personality rights. 31. This Court heard the submissions advanced by the learned counsel
 for the plaintiffs and perused the documents filed along with the plaint. 32. The plaintiffs are asking for safeguarding the personality rights of
 the Sadhguru/ plaintiff no.1, especially when the use thereof is by an CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 10 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 unknown third party with whom neither of the plaintiffs have any
 connection/ association with. 33. The facts involved reveal that the plaintiff no.1 is a known person/
 personality and not a fly by night operator who, as per the pleadings made
 herein, needs, if not due credit but at least protection for what he is and in
 view of what is transpiring at the present. More so, since as claimed
 herein, the plaintiff no.1 has not only authored multiple books pertaining
 to spirituality, mysticism and yoga but also won awards for the said
 publications, even on international levels. Not only that, he is the recipient
 of several presidential awards for his extraordinary contributions to
 humanity and is recognized for such initiatives taken for the betterment of
 humanity globally. The plaintiffs, especially the plaintiff no.1 are/ is
 internationally recognized and identified for their works, their image. 34. In view of the above, the plaintiff no.1 has acquired uniqueness
 pertaining to his personality qua his voice, name, signature, image/
 likeness, vocal/ articulation style and his unique attire/ looks/ appearance.
 The personality rights of the plaintiff are quite unique, that the plaintiffs
 easily came across various parties that are unauthorizedly using impugned
 contents on various internet platform to capitalize on the personality rights
 of the plaintiff no.1. The same has to be seen from a perspective since the
 plaintiffs, especially the plaintiff no.1 are/ is present on the social media
 websites as also in the audio-visual form(s) and print form(s). 35. The impugned contents herein are not only utilizing the plaintiff
 no.1's personality rights but the primary defendants have gone a step
 further and employed modern day technology to modify the images, voice,
 likeness, videos etc. for commercial gains and pertinently, the primary CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 11 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 defendant's mala fide intent is revealed from the conduct of the primary
 defendants. Particularly, many accounts on YouTube channels and Meta's
 social media platforms are using modern day technology to modify the
 voice, image, likeness etc. of the plaintiff no.1 to garner more views and
 subscribers in order to piggyback on his name and reputation. 36. If allowed to continue in the manner it will soon spread like a
 pandemic with wide uncontrollable repercussions, especially, since it is a
 social media platform(s) herein happen to be the internet portal(s). If not
 stopped, the chances that (wrong) message will spread like wild fire with
 hardly any water left to douse it. In any event, it is extremely implausible
 to ask the plaintiffs, especially the plaintiff no.1, to run/ chase after each
 one of the 'unknown' defendants who happen to be 'rouge websites' and/
 or to respond to the world at large qua the 'originality' of the plaintiffs,
 especially the plaintiff no.1. 37. All the above call for this Court to pass a 'dynamic+' injunction, a
 form of injunctive relief which is being granted by Court(s) in similar
 matters in recent years, primarily with a view to protect parties like the
 plaintiffs herein against rapidly developing online infringement platforms.
 For instance, the Bombay High Court, in a case bearing no. I. A.
 (Lodging) 10257/2023 entitled Applause Entertainment Private Limited
 v. Meta Platforms Inc. & Ors. , which was a case involving audio-visual
 extracts of certain web series being streamed illegally on multiple
 platforms, granted real time relief in the form of a 'dynamic+' injunction
 to the plaintiff therein. Similarly, a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Universal City Studios LLC v. Dotmovies.baby 2023:DHC:5842 has, also CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 12 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 while granting such a 'dynamic+' injunction, observed that any injunction
 granted by this Court ought to be effective in nature. 38. Therefore, the position of law apparent therefrom, which has since
 developed with the passage of time, clearly reflects that the rights of a
 plaintiff, cannot be rendered otiose in this world of rapidly developing
 technology and for that, enforcement of intellectual property rights on any
 social platform, including but not limited to, the internet as well alongwith
 the real world, ought to be visible and effective. 39. The upcoming technology and the technological advances
 association therewith, have their own implication(s) and/ or
 ramification(s), which are not only reachable far and wide, but are also
 unpredictable. With the immense degree of freedom enjoyed by
 developers and innovators globally today, all and sundry, especially those
 intellectual property right holders like the plaintiffs herein, are prone to/
 may be exposed and/ or vulnerable to the actions of the 'rogue websites'
 herein, more so, if such right holders like the plaintiffs herein, are not
 accorded proper protection from them. 40. On one hand, though such intellectual property right holders like the
 plaintiffs herein, can proceed in the normal manner, however, on the other
 hand, without any proper channelization, their intellectual property rights
 are prone to get effected by such 'rogue websites', who have no right, title
 and/ or interest therein. This would lead them and their facilitators to
 freely and blatantly exploit the personality rights of the plaintiffs herein,
 causing irreparable loss, damage and injury to them as also leaving them
 struggling on the fence exposed dangerous edge of technology. 41. This so-called dangerous edge has become even sharper with the CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 13 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 fast-paced evolution of certain 'hydra-headed' websites, which, even if
 blocked/ deleted, have the incredible potential to resurface in multitudes as
 alphanumeric or mirror websites, with only minor, mechanical changes.
 Such 'hydra-headed 'websites, under the garb of privacy, are able to mask
 their registration/ contact details perfectly, making it virtually impossible
 to locate and contact their operators to, if necessary, demand cessation of
 infringing contents. 42. Given the plaintiff no. 1's unique position as a trusted source for
 spiritual guidance worldwide, any misrepresentation of his endorsement
 risks irreparable damage not only to his personal reputation but also to
 public trust at large. The misuse of his persona for commercial gain who
 rely on the purported endorsement. It is submitted that such acts of
 misrepresentation disproportionately harm plaintiff no. 1, as they strike at
 the very foundation of his professional standing, which is inextricably
 linked to public trust. For these reasons, the gravity of the present case
 extends beyond mere economic considerations and implicates larger issues
 of public welfare, consumer protection, and the integrity of public
 discourse. 43. In essence, as per the case set up by the plaintiffs, the 'rogue
 websites' are in flagrant infringement/ facilitation of infringement as is
 evident from the unabashed streaming of the copyrighted content on such
 'rogue websites', of which the plaintiff herein, is the right holder.
 Moreover, the systematic, organised and intentional nature of the
 infringement, and the regularity and consistency with which the said
 content is being updated/ uploaded on the said "rogue websites" shows
 the extent of the violation of the rights of the plaintiff in real time. The CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 14 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 said 'rogue websites' are also employing the URL-redirection and identity
 masking methods as noted above, putting the plaintiff in an even more
 precarious condition to defend itself against their infringing actions. In
 these circumstances, the present case appears, prima facie, to be a clear
 example of personality rights infringement by entities such as defendant
 nos. 1-41, who are using modern technology to hide their identities while
 unlawfully benefiting from the plaintiff's personality rights. 44. Thus, in light of the violations already committed by the 'rogue
 websites' by unauthorized streaming of the plaintiff's personality rights by
 using modern technology and AI tools to unauthorizedly morph and
 doctored the plaintiff no. 1'spersonality rightson the 'rogue website', this
 Court sees every likelihood that such 'rogue website' will continue to
 disseminate to the public without authorization or license from the
 plaintiffs. 45. Therefore, the plaintiff has been able to make out a prima facie case
 in its favour and against the defendants and the balance of convenience is
 also tilting towards the grant of relief in favour of the
 plaintiffs. If an ex parte ad interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff is
 not granted, the plaintiff will likely suffer irreparable loss and injury. 46. In view of the aforesaid, as also keeping in mind the existing
 position of law, as also to keep pace with the changing times, coupled with
 the changing technology, are issued; i. The defendant nos. 1-41 and 48, their owners, partners,
 proprietors, officers, servants, employees, and all others in capacity
 of principal or agent acting for and on their behalf, or anyone
 claiming through, by or under them, are injuncted from using or CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 15 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 exploiting the plaintiff no. 1's name, image and likeness, voice, and
 any other aspects of his persona which are solely and exclusively
 associated and identified with him for any commercial and/or
 personal gain and/or m any manner whatsoever without the plaintiff
 no. 1's express written authorisation, including through the use of
 any technology such as Artificial Intelligence and in any medium,
 format or platform, in any manner that amounts to violation of the
 plaintiff no. 1's persona1ity and publicity rights.
 ii. The defendant no. 42 is directed to suspend/ lock/ disable the
 domain name <expressindia95 l O.xyz/> and <newstodayO 124.xyz> and/ or any further websites/domain name as may be
 subsequently identified and notified on affidavit by the plaintiffs
 and disclose all details including but not limited to registrant details
 and billing details for said domain name and any such domain
 names which are discovered during the course of the proceedings
 and notified on affidavit by the plaintiffs. iii. The defendant no. 43 is directed to take down/ disable the
 post at https://x.corn/3rdEyeNFT/status/18659_30660076 I 79 05
 and/ or any further posts/ account as may be subsequently identified
 and notified on affidavit by the plaintiffs and disclose the Basic
 Subscriber Information and all other information as available with
 defendant no. 43 for the users of the said profiles / accounts/ pages
 and/or any further accounts/ pages as may be subsequently
 identified and notified on affidavit by the plaintiffs.
 iv. The defendant no. 44 is directed to suspend/ block/ disable
 defendant no. 3 account and/or any further account as may be CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 16 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 subsequently identified and notified on affidavit by the plaintiffs
 and disclose the basic subscriber information and all other
 information as available with the defendant no. 44 for the users of
 the said profiles/ accounts/ pages and/or any further accounts/ pages
 as may be subsequently identified and notified on affidavit by the
 plaintiffs. v. The defendant no.45 is directed to suspend/ takedown/
 disable the YouTube accounts/ channels, which exclusively pertains
 to such content infringing upon the plaintiff no.1's personality
 rights, of defendant nos. 5 to 41 and any further accounts/ channels
 as may be subsequently identified and notified on affidavit by the
 plaintiffs and disclose the basic subscriber information and all other
 information as available with the defendant no. 45 corresponding to
 the said YouTube accounts and any further accounts/ channels as
 may be subsequently identified and notified on affidavit by the
 plaintiffs. vi. The defendant nos. 46 and 47 are directed to issue necessary
 notifications/ directions calling upon various service providers/
 social media platforms to block access/suspend various websites,
 social media accounts, channels, etc. of the primary defendants or
 such other websites, social media accounts, channels, etc. that may
 subsequently be notified by the Plaintiffs to be infringing their
 exclusive rights. vii. In case the plaintiffs, during the pendency of the present suit,
 discover any more false, fabricated and/ or deep fake content not
 originating from or associated with the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs shall CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 17 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24
 be at liberty to approach the defendant no.45 requesting them to
 block/ take down, within 36 hours, any such post/ image/ video/
 text/ or any other deep fake content, which is published on its
 platforms or utilizing its platforms. In case the defendant no. 45
 raises any doubt, the plaintiffs shall be at liberty to approach this
 Court for appropriate orders. 47. Upon the plaintiffs taking requisite steps, issue notice to defendants
 through all permissible modes returnable before the Court on 14.10.2025. 48. Reply(s), if any, be filed within four weeks from the date of service.
 Rejoinder(s) thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks thereafter. 49. List before Court 14.10.2025. SAURABH BANERJEE, J
 MAY 30, 2025/Ab CS(COMM) 578/2025 Page 18 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/06/2025 at 00:46:24