% 28.03.2024 1. Present application has been filed on behalf of the Applicant Sachin
 Mittal S/o Ashok Mittal, under Section 439 Cr.P.C. seeking regular bail in
 FIR No.84/2023 dated 28.03.2023, registered under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 384 / 506 / 120B IPC at PS: Special Cell. 2. Case of the prosecution is that present FIR was registered on a
 complaint of Sunil Kumar Gupta, who alleged that one Shobhit Agarwal
 owed Rs.1.30 crore to him under some earlier transaction between them
 and when he approached accused Shobhit Agarwal for payment of money
 and to buy property in Gurugram, Shobhit introduced him to the Applicant
 and thereafter both induced him to take two home loans, amounting to BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 1 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:44
 Rs.6.80 Crores from the banks. After availing the loans, he was not given
 possession of the two properties sold to him and on enquiries he later learnt
 that the two along with their associates, Vishal Oberoi and Himanshu
 Rasgotra had, under a well-orchestrated plan, managed the loans against
 two properties by preparing forged documents. Complainant neither
 received the entire loan amount nor the possession of the properties and
 realised that he had been cheated. Complainant also received threats and
 extortion calls to pay the EMIs of the two home loans. 3. As per the status report, during investigation, it was found that home
 loan of Rs.3 crore was taken by the complainant vide Loan Account
 No.HL00830000340538 from IDBI Bank, Green Park against property
 Villa A-3, The Hermitage, Sector-103, Gurugram, Haryana, in a project
 developed by Satya Developers Pvt. Ltd. The home loan was disbursed on
 19.04.2022 by Banker's Cheque No. 010632 dated 31.03.2022 in Bank of
 Baroda Account No.36290100019187, which was the account of accused
 Himanshu Rasgotra, who allegedly sold the above property to the
 complainant. Analysis of the bank statement, revealed that this savings
 account was opened on 20.10.2021 and thereafter Rs.3 lacs were
 transferred in this account on 27.10.2021 from ICICI Bank Account
 No.084305001370 pertaining to M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd., company
 of the Applicant and on the same day, the said amount was transferred
 through RTGS and NEFT to Satya Developers Pvt. Ltd. Again on
 09.03.2022, a sum of Rs.5 lacs was first transferred in the above account of
 Himanshu Rasgotra by M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter to
 Satya Developers Pvt. Ltd. 4. It is further stated that replies received from IDBI Bank Limited and
 Satya Developers Pvt. Ltd. were examined and it was found that Himanshu BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 2 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:44
 Rasgotra in connivance with other co-accused, first booked property in
 'The Hermitage' project to obtain allotment letter and other related
 documents and thereafter the documents were forged to obtain the home
 loan of Rs.3 crore from IDBI Bank. Himanshu Rasgotra was arrested on
 11.06.2023 and during his police remand of 12 days, during interrogation,
 disclosed that he had come in contact with Vishal Oberoi 3 years ago. Due
 to pandemic COVID-19 he had incurred losses in business and was in need
 of money. Two years ago, Vishal Oberoi introduced him to Udit Khullar
 and the Applicant and to earn quick money he agreed to become a fake
 seller of 5 properties on which home loans were to be taken from the banks.
 After receiving Rs.3 crore in his bank account, he transferred the money in
 different banks as per directions of Vishal Oberoi and Udit Khullar. He
 transferred different amounts in the bank account of AV Global, a trading
 firm of Vishal Oberoi, from the savings account of his mother Chitra Rani
 Rasgotra, since Vishal Oberoi told him not to make direct transactions from
 his account to Vishal's bank account. He stated that he was paid Rs.10/12
 lacs for this purpose. 5. It is stated that on further interrogation, Himanshu Rasgotra
 disclosed that Vishal Oberoi and Udit Khullar used to send him forged
 documents and details of account numbers through WhatsApp, in which the
 fraudulently obtained loan amounts were transferred by him. He had given
 his mobile number to one Saurabh Mittal, as per instructions, so that police
 could not find any data. Vishal Oberoi and Udit Khullar kept their shares of
 money in his bank account and got the funds transferred in different banks,
 as and when they needed money for spending in clubs and hotels.
 Himanshu also disclosed that in March, 2023, he along with Vishal Oberoi
 and Udit Khullar fled to Dubai to evade the arrest and that it was Udit BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 3 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:45
 Khullar who had prepared forged documents of all the five fraudulent home
 loans. 6. On the aspect of second home loan bearing No.
 LBDEL00006045247, with respect to property being Flat No.PL-3/0202,
 Paras Enterprises, Gurugram, case of the prosecution is that respective
 replies received from M/s. Fantasy Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. and ICICI Bank
 revealed that Vishal Oberoi was also involved in the fraudulent act of
 taking the loan and selling the property in question. The amount of Rs.3.80,
 crore was transferred on 20.04.2022 by ICICI Bank in Axis Bank account
 of Vishal Oberoi, who on the same day transferred Rs. 5 lacs in the bank
 account of his firm AV Global and thereafter in the ICICI Bank Account of
 M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd., in which Applicant is a Director and a
 major shareholder. During investigation conducted so far, 16 other
 fraudulent home loan cases have come to light, in which Himanshu
 Rasgotra, Vishal Oberoi, Shobhit Agarwal and his employee Saurabh
 Mittal as well as Udit Khullar are involved as either fake sellers or buyers. 7. As to the role of the Applicant, it is stated that he was arrested in the
 present case on 11.06.2023 and 14 days police custody was given. During
 investigation it was revealed that Applicant runs an NBFC in the name of
 M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd. and on interrogation, he disclosed that in
 order to infuse funds in the said firm and to make payment of loans of
 private money lenders, he along with his associates procured fraudulent
 loans. On his directions, his associates, Mithilesh (an employee of M/s.
 Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd.), Udit Khullar (shareholder in M/s. Naman
 Finlease Pvt. Ltd.) and Rahul Mathur, who managed fraudulent home loans
 from SBI, used to prepare forged documents for obtaining loans from
 nationalised and private banks. Mobile connectivity was found between BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 4 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:45
 Applicant and Vishal Oberoi as well as between Himanshu Rasgotra and
 Vishal Oberoi. One Rajni Bala, resident of Shahdara was examined and she
 stated that she met the Applicant in his office at Panchsheel Enclave, where
 Udit Khullar was also present. She was induced by both to take home loan
 on property No.L-0706, 7th Floor, Godrej Summit, Sector-104, Dwarka
 Expressway, but thereafter she neither received possession of the property
 nor any amount from the accused persons. 8. Relying on the status report, learned APP for the State, Ms. Shubhi
 Gupta submitted that the present offence was committed in a planned and
 orchestrated manner. Applicant with other co-accused is involved in
 several cases of cheating and forgery in the past and 7 FIRs have been
 registered against him under various Sections i.e. 420/468/471/409/120B IPC . Investigation reveals that this is a multi-victim scam and so far 16
 victims have been identified. Applicant is the mastermind behind the entire
 scam, who induced innocent people desirous of buying properties, into
 taking home loans on the basis of false and fabricated documents of
 properties, whose ownerships were questionable. Himanshu Rasgotra was
 granted interim bail but he did not surrender. Mithilesh Kumar and Rahul
 Sharma are in judicial custody while Vishal Oberoi, Shobhit Agarwal,
 Saurabh Mittal, Udit Khullar and Swadesh Ranjan have been declared
 proclaimed offenders. Reliance was placed on the order of this Court in Sunil Grover v. State , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3539, where the Court
 distinguishing the applicability of the judgments of the Supreme Court in Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , ( 2012) 1 SCC 40 and
 Suresh Kalmadi v. CBI , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 361, observed that there
 was a fundamental difference between the cases under consideration before
 the Supreme Court and the case before the High court as in the former, no BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 5 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:46
 member of the general public was directly affected and it was the public
 exchequer which was put to loss but in the latter, Petitioner floated
 advertisements and invited offers from members of the public to invest
 money in their schemes by promising them lucrative returns at regular
 intervals. This kind of activity shows great deal of deliberation, preparation
 and operation and the whole exercise is actuated by a mentality to get
 'richer overnight', at the instance of general public or investors and it will
 send a wrong signal in case bail was granted to such persons. 9. Learned Senior Counsel for the Applicant, on the other hand, argued
 that Applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present
 case. He is a respectable businessman with over 300 employees, who are
 totally dependent upon him for livelihood. Applicant is one of the
 shareholders in M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd. and his responsibility is
 focussed on expansion and administrative work. Applicant is not involved
 in disbursing loans or handling documentation for customers. Company has
 its own established client base and provides loans to them on their
 requirements and on applicable interest rates. Applicant has been
 implicated at the behest of his business rival in connivance with the
 complainant because Applicant was successful in bringing 100-million
 dollars FDI in the company, which ultimately strengthened the country's
 economy. M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd. has disbursed loans to more than
 50,000 customers over the years and it is impossible to track each and
 every transaction. Moreover, Applicant is only one of the shareholders and
 other shareholders also participate in and control the functioning of the
 company. 10. It is submitted that the Applicant is a respectable citizen and has
 deep roots in the society. He has the responsibility of his wife and three BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 6 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:47
 daughters, who are studying. Applicant is involved in the field of finance
 and real estate for last several years and has successfully written over 10
 highly acclaimed books on real estate and finance. Additionally, he holds
 an MBA Degree from IIT, Mumbai and has served as a Consultant in
 several NBFCs. Applicant has travelled to Dubai on earlier occasions and
 even on 31.03.2022, whereafter he returned in April, 2022, after
 registration of the present FIR. Even when the earlier FIRs were registered
 against him, wherein he has been falsely implicated, he made no attempt to
 leave the country. Applicant has been in judicial custody since 11.07.2023.
 No recovery has been made from him. Investigation is complete and
 Charge Sheet and supplementary Charge Sheet have been filed. No useful
 purpose will be served by keeping him in custody as the trial is likely to
 take a long time, since even charges have not been framed till date and 57
 witnesses are to be examined by the prosecution. 11. It was argued that complainant Sunil Kumar Gupta is involved in
 various commercial ventures and is a Director in M/s Crossways Vertical
 Solutions Ltd. Complainant is a Chartered Accountant by profession and it
 is difficult to believe that he agreed to purchase the properties without
 verifying the details and conducting due diligence. In fact, complainant is
 also a DSA (Direct Selling Agent) for various Banks and NBFCs including
 for Indiabulls Private Limited and is very well versed with all banking
 procedures and norms. He is himself in the business of arranging loans for
 his customers and has concealed from the investigating agencies that he has
 taken numerous loans from Banks, NBFCs for his personal business. His
 company lends money as a part of the business regime. He has defaulted in
 several loans, which is manifest from a chart furnished by the Applicant
 giving the loan details. Out of the approximately 75 loans, many of the BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 7 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:48
 loans were either written off or EMIs are pending. Complainant is a
 mastermind of the entire conspiracy and has falsely implicated the
 Applicant, which is evident from the fact that he was the one who received
 Rs.1.28 crores from the loan amount for purchase of two properties. The
 loans were disbursed to Himanshu Rasgotra and Vishal Oberoi and
 complainant received Rs.1 crore from Vishal Oberoi and Rs.28 lacs from
 Himanshu Rasgotra. Applicant is not a beneficiary of any money from the
 said transaction. Applicant is, in fact, neither a signatory/buyer/seller or
 beneficiary of any of the loan amounts disbursed to any co-accused or the
 alleged victim. 12. It was urged that complainant has furnished no details of alleged
 forgery of the loans/property documents and not even stated if he paid the
 EMIs of the said loans or that any of his existing property was mortgaged
 for these loans, so as to cause loss or prejudice to him. Complainant is
 silent about the fact that Shobit Aggarwal had also taken a loan on the
 property bearing No. P-03-2002, Apartment, Iconic Tower, Paras Quartier,
 Sector 2, Gurgaon, Haryana, which is in the same locality, where the
 property, on which complainant had taken the loan, is located. Complainant
 has admitted that he was well acquainted with Shobhit Agarwal and was
 fully aware of previous loans taken on the property. He has not been able to
 furnish any plausible reason for taking two home loans despite the fact he
 already owns multiple properties and that too involving Shobhit Agarwal,
 who owed him a huge sum of money and was not re-paying back. 13. The stand of the State and the complainant that 16 victims have been
 identified by the investigating agency, is completely false and only to
 prejudice the Court. 16 properties were purchased by the same 5 persons
 and none of them were sold by the Applicant. One of the alleged victim BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 8 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:48
 Amit Tyagi is himself an accused in FIR No.09/2022 registered at Manesar
 and the other Rajender Pratap Singh is a friend of Amit Tyagi, who took
 loans for 5-6 properties. In the FIRs pending against the Applicant, he
 joined investigation, as and when called for and was either not arrested or
 is on bail. In one of the FIRs, Charge Sheet has been filed without arrest
 and in FIR No.449/2014, Applicant is not an accused. 14. The contention of the State that some of the co-accused have been
 declared as proclaimed offenders and Himanshu Rasgotra jumped interim
 bail, cannot be a ground to deny bail to the Applicant. The Supreme Court
 in Sebil Elanjimpally v. State of Odisha , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 677, held
 that if a co-accused who was released on bail, has not surrendered, this
 cannot be a germane factor to decline bail to another co-accused. In
 Munshi Sah v. The State of Bihar & Anr., Criminal Appeal Nos. 3198-
 3199 of 2023, decided on 13.10.2023, the Supreme Court observed that
 question of grant of bail to a co-accused person cannot be made dependent
 upon surrender of another accused. Reliance was also placed on the
 following judgments:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:49
 judicial custody. Fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence
 is the presumption of innocence until found guilty. (d) Sanjay Chandra (supra), where the Supreme Court held that
 balanced approach is to grant bail, subject to certain conditions
 rather than keep individuals under detention for an indefinite
 period, especially where records are voluminous and large
 number of witnesses have to be examined. The Supreme Court
 observed that the Court was conscious of the fact that accused
 were charged with economic offences of huge magnitude and
 offences, which if proved, will jeopardize the economy of the
 country, but Court cannot lose sight of the fact that investigating
 agency has completed investigation and Charge Sheet has been
 filed and therefore, the presence of the accused may not be
 necessary for further investigation. Stringent conditions can be
 imposed to allay the apprehensions of the State that the
 Applicants may abscond. (e) Jayant Kumar Jain v. The State, Bail Appln. 2442/2020, decided
 on 14.09.2020, where this Court granted bail to the Applicant on
 the ground that Applicant had joined investigations on multiple
 occasions. It is not stated either in the status report or during the
 arguments that Applicant was a flight risk. The case arose out of a
 commercial transaction and is based on documents that stand
 seized and therefore, no further custody is required. ( f) H.B. Chaturvedi v. C.B.I. , 2010 SCC OnLine Del 2155, where
 this Court granted bail to the Applicant inter alia on grounds that
 there was nothing in the reply of CBI to suggest that there was a
 reasonable apprehension that Applicant will flee from justice, if BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 10 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:50
 released on bail. Conduct of the Applicant shows that he was
 joining investigation before his arrest and is an established
 businessman with roots in the society. Bail is not to be withheld
 as a punishment and even assuming that the accused is prima
 facie guilty of a grave offence, bail cannot be refused as an
 indirect method of punishing before the accused is convicted.
 There is no justification for classifying offences into different
 categories such as economic offences and refusing bail on the
 ground that the offence involved belongs to a particular category. (g) Suresh Kalmadi (supra), where this Court observed that prima
 facie a case for offence under Section 467 IPC is made out where
 punishment is upto life imprisonment and thus accusations
 against the Petitioners are serious in nature. However, the
 evidence to prove accusation is primarily documentary in nature
 besides few material witnesses. If seriousness of the offence on
 the basis of punishment provided is the only criteria, Courts
 would not be balancing Constitutional rights but recalibrating the
 scales of justice. 15. Learned Senior Counsel for the complainant per contra adopts the
 arguments made on behalf of the State and adds that the Applicant has been
 using his position to influence within the NBFCs, to engage in deceptive
 practices and financial frauds. Under the guise of a legitimate business,
 Applicant exploits gullible individuals into investing in properties with
 forged documents. His modus operandi involves orchestrating a network of
 associates like Udit Khullar, Shobhit Agarwal, Vishal Oberoi etc. who
 mislead numerous individuals into investing their hard-earned money. His
 criminal antecedents are evident from FIR No.499/2014, PS: I.P. Estate BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 11 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:50
 dating back to 2007, during his tenure in ICICI Bank and from then to now
 he has 7 other FIRs registered and pending against him. It is urged that
 Shobhit Agarwal is a business partner of the Applicant; Udit Khullar is a
 major shareholder in M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd.; Mithilesh is an
 employee of the Applicant; Rahul Mathur is one of his associates and
 works as a DSA; Vishal Oberoi and Himanshu Rasgotra are the fake sellers
 of the properties in question. Money trail and call details show connectivity
 of the Applicant with other co-accused. Most of the other accused like
 Swadesh Ranjan, Praveen Singh are employees or ex-employees of the
 Applicant. The case involves not just private monetary transactions with
 the complainant but a multi victim scam, where over 16 victims cheated by
 the Applicant and co-accused persons have been identified. 16. I have heard learned Senior Counsels for the Applicant and the
 complainant and learned APP for the State. 17. The principles that govern the grant of bail have been elucidated and
 re-stated and re-affirmed again and again. In order to avoid prolixity, I may
 refer to a few judicial precedents before proceeding to examine the present
 case. In Sanjay Chandra (supra), the Supreme Court observed as follows:- 18. In P. Chidambaram (supra), the Supreme Court held as under:- [ Vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2001) 4 SCC 280
 : 2001 SCC (Cri) 674]." 19. In another case titled P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of
 Enforcement , (2020) 13 SCC 791, the Supreme Court held as under:- 20. Historically, in the year 1978, Krishna Iyer, J., observed in Gudikanti Narasimhulu and Others v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of
 Andhra Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240, that:- 21. In Gurcharan Singh and Others v. State (Delhi Administration )
 (1978) 1 SCC 118, the Supreme Court observed:- 22. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee and Another , (2010)
 14 SCC 496, the Supreme Court culled out the following factors which
 govern the grant of bail and ought to be kept in mind by the Courts while BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 15 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:52
 taking a decision to grant or reject bail:- 23. It has been time and again emphasised and highlighted by the Courts
 that the rationale and reasons for permitting judicial custody of an under
 trial are to: (a) prevent an accused from committing another offence; (b) to
 conduct investigation; (c) to prevent from tampering with evidence or
 threatening/intimidating witnesses; and (d) to ensure the presence of the
 accused to face trial and to ensure that the accused is available to receive
 sentence, if convicted. 24. Coming back to the present case, on a perusal of the Charge Sheet,
 the allegations and the role ascribed to the Applicant are that he was
 running an NBFC in the name of M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd. and in
 order to infuse funds in the company and to make payment of loans of BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 16 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:52
 private moneylenders, he procured fraudulent loans and along with Udit
 Khullar, a shareholder in M/s. Naman Finlease Pvt. Ltd., Rahul Mathur and
 others managed fraudulent home loans from SBI and other banks using
 forged documents. Applicant was introduced to the complainant by Shobhit
 Agarwal, who owed Rs.1.30 crore to the complainant under an earlier
 transaction and both assured disbursement of two home loans to the
 complainant for buying the two properties in question. Out of the two
 loans, EMI was to be paid for one home loan by Shobhit Agarwal. After a
 few days, Applicant and Shobhit Agarwal introduced the complainant to
 two persons, Vishal Oberoi and Himanshu Rasgotra, the alleged sellers of
 the two properties. Documents were forged and loans were taken
 fraudulently, thus cheating the complainant, as he neither received the
 entire loan amount nor the possession of the two properties. The total
 amount of home loans, sanctioned and disbursed was Rs.6.80 crores, out of
 which Rs.3.80 crore was by ICICI Bank for one property and Rs.3 crore by
 IDBI Bank against the second property and from this amount, Rs.1.28 crore
 were transferred to the complainant's firm Keshav Fintech LLP. 25. Applicant and the complainant have levelled allegations and counter-
 allegations. Complainant alleges that several FIRs are pending against the
 Applicant and he along with a network of persons, has cheated and allured
 several people into investments by arranging for home loans against forged
 property documents, while Applicant contends otherwise and states that the
 complainant is a Chartered Accountant by profession and has been working
 as a DSA for various banks and NBFCs and is well-versed with banking
 procedures and norms, besides being in the business of arranging loans for
 his customers and therefore, it is unbelievable that he was so naïve as not to
 have exercised due diligence to verify the details of the home loans and BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 17 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:53
 status and documents of the properties, that he proposed to buy and the
 allegations against the Applicant are wholly false. Interestingly, in the
 status report and/or the FIR and Charge Sheet, there is not a whisper as to
 whether the complainant paid any EMIs for the two home loans and/or if
 any of his existing property was mortgaged against the loans or the
 loss/prejudice caused. There can be no two opinions on the proposition that
 allegations of cheating, forgery and/or misappropriation, levelled by the
 complainant will be tested only after evidence is led and innocence of the
 Applicant or otherwise is a matter of trial. At this stage, Court cannot be
 called upon to adjudicate on the merits of the allegations and the
 accusations. 26. There is no doubt that the allegations against the Applicant are
 serious. However, looking at the nature of allegations and accusations, the
 evidence required will be primarily documentary in nature. Documents
 have been seized during investigation and Charge Sheet and supplementary
 Charge Sheet have been filed. Applicant has stated that nothing
 incriminating has been recovered from him and this position was
 uncontroverted. In Sanjay Chandra (supra), the Supreme Court, looking at
 the accusations against the Appellants first observed that the charge of
 cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property and forgery for the
 purpose of cheating using as genuine a forged document was serious and in
 determining whether to grant bail, both seriousness of the charge and the
 severity of punishment should be taken into account. The Supreme Court
 thereafter noted that there were 17 accused persons and the documents
 relied upon by the prosecution were voluminous and therefore, the trial
 would take considerable time. It would, therefore, not be in the interest of
 justice that accused should be in jail for an indefinite period. The Supreme BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 18 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:53
 Court also observed that the accused was charged with economic offences
 of huge magnitude, which if proved would jeopardise the economy of the
 country but the Court cannot lose sight of the fact that investigation is
 complete and Charge Sheet is filed and therefore, presence of the accused
 in custody may not be necessary. In Prabhakar Tewari v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh and Another , (2020) 11 SCC 648, the Supreme Court observed
 that there was no wrong or improper exercise of discretion by the High
 Court in granting bail to the accused. The offence alleged was, no doubt,
 grave and serious and there were several criminal cases pending against the
 accused but these factors by themselves cannot be the basis for refusal of
 prayer for bail. 27. Applicant is in judicial custody since 11.07.2023. The trial is still at
 the stage of consideration on charge and looking at the fact that there are 48
 witnesses as per the Charge Sheet and 9 in the supplementary Charge
 Sheet, trial is not likely to conclude any soon. It is not the case of the State
 that the Applicant is a flight risk or there are chances of his fleeing from
 justice. In fact, Applicant has stated that he returned back to India from
 Dubai after the registration of the present FIR and has deep roots in the
 society with 03 daughters, who are pursuing their education. This
 apprehension, if any, can be allayed by imposing stringent conditions and
 restrictions. There is no evidence or even an allegation that the Applicant
 threatened the witnesses or interfered with or tampered with evidence
 during investigation. In Jayant Kumar Jain (supra), this Court granted bail
 to the Applicant on the ground that he had joined investigation on multiple
 occasions and it was not the case of the State that Applicant was a flight
 risk. The case arose out of a commercial transaction and was based on
 documents that stand seized and therefore, no further custody was required. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:53
 In H.B. Chaturvedi (supra), this Court granted bail to the Applicant inter
 alia on grounds that there was nothing in the reply of CBI to suggest that
 there was a reasonable apprehension that Applicant will flee from justice, if
 released on bail. Conduct of the Applicant showed that he was joining
 investigation before his arrest and is an established businessman with roots
 in the society. Bail is not to be withheld as a punishment and even
 assuming that the accused is prima facie guilty of a grave offence, bail
 cannot be refused as an indirect method of punishing before the accused is
 convicted. Applicant cannot indefinitely remain in custody only because
 some of the co-accused have been declared as proclaimed offenders and
 one jumped the interim bail, which is one of the grounds to oppose the bail
 by the State. In Sebil Elanjimpally (supra), the Supreme Court observed
 that merely because a co-accused, who was released on bail, has not
 surrendered cannot be a germane factor to decline bail to another co-
 accused. 28. In the facts and circumstances of this case, I am inclined to grant bail
 to the Applicant. It is, therefore, directed that Applicant shall be released on
 bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.3 lacs with two
 sureties of the like amount, subject to the satisfaction of the Trial Court and
 further subject to the following conditions:- 29. It is made clear that nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to
 expression of an opinion on merits of the case. 30. Application stands disposed of. 31. Copy of the order be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent for
 information and necessary compliance. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MARCH 28, 2024/DU/shivam BAIL APPLN. 2576/2023 Page 21 of 21 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/03/2024 at 04:06:54