1. This is a suit filed for possession of property and damages. 2. One Smt. Bhagwanti filed the instant suit against two persons
namely Sh. Hari Chand and his son Sh. Om Prakash. The allegation
is that defendant Sh. Hari Chand was the owner of a property in the
village Wazirpur. He is the maternal uncle of Smt. Bhagwanti and
therefore, she had complete trust in him. Sh. Hari Chand sold the
property by way of registered sale deed dated 04.04.2007 to Smt.

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 2/12
 Bhagwanti for a sum of Rs. 13 lacs which was paid by way of a
cheque no. 424914 for Rs. 8 lacs whereas remaining Rs. 5 lacs was
paid in cash. After execution of the sale deed Smt. Bhagwanti
became the absolute owner and on the same date, possession of
property was also delivered to her. She also got mutation of the
property in her name subsequently. 3. There was another track on which the story was proceeding.
The mutation done by the plaintiff was not free from hurdle. It is the
claim of plaintiff that initially Sh. Hari Chand had taken a blank
signed cheque along with blank signed documents with an
assurance that he will get the mutation work but despite lapse of
time he did not do so. When the plaintiff Smt. Bhagwanti
approached the said Sh. Hari Chand, he avoided the matter and
ultimately informed her that the cheque was lost. Finally, the
plaintiff got the mutation done by herself. Defendant Sh. Hari
Chand also threatened her to re-transfer the property because there
was sufficient increase in the value and in case of refusal, Sh. Hari
Chand extended threat of dire consequence including the usage of
blank signed cheque and blank signed papers. The plaintiff initially
approached a Civil Judge for injunction but the defendant forcibly
occupied the property by break open the locks. Then the plaintiff
came up with the instant suit for recovery of possession and
damages. 4. The suit was filed before the Hon'ble High Court as per the
jurisdictional value and two preliminary issues along with four
substantive issues were framed therein vide order dated 20.01.2014. CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 3/12
 It was also directed that only after negative result of preliminary
issue, evidence would be permitted. Later on, the suit was
transferred to the District Courts and the Ld. Predecessor on
22.01.2019, recorded that the second preliminary issue was not
pressed for. Subsequently, another Ld. Predecessor vide order dated
29.04.2019 decided the first preliminary issue in favor of the
plaintiff and allowed evidence to be led. Vide order dated
20.08.2019, a Ld. Predecessor appointed LC for recording of
evidence. The Ld. LC recorded the evidence but in the meantime an
application for modification of issues was filed. Vide order dated
22.03.2024, an additional issue was framed. Now, all the pending
issues can be indicated as under: The defendant side examined Sh. Pankaj Arora as DW-1, Sh. Om
Prakash as DW-2, Sh. Rakesh Kumar Garg as DW-3, SI Bijender
Kadyan as DW-4, HC Jagdish Prasad as DW-5. All these witnesses
were cross-examined on behalf of the plaintiff. In rebuttal evidence,
the plaintiff, examined one Sh. Atul Kumar from Treasury Office.
After closure of evidence, final arguments were heard. Written
arguments perused. This judgment shall dispose of the suit. 6. Issue no. i & iv-A are taken up for consideration together.
There is no dispute between the parties that the sale deed dated
04.04.2007 was executed and registered. The basic dispute is that
the sale deed was creation of a fraud. We are therefore to see if the
defendant has been able to establish the fraud or not. 7. Registered sale deed carries presumption of authenticity and
unless and until very cogent reason is shown, the same cannot be
discarded. The plaintiff side has brought on record the sale deed
which is a registered document and therefore, the onus clearly lies
on the defendant side to establish contrary factual scenario. In the
present case, the defendant side wants to claim that the sale

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 5/12
 consideration was Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 13 lacs was only given as
earnest amount and that the balance amount of Rs. 87 lacs was to be
paid subsequently. Defendant side has relied upon certain
documents in support of this claim such as- memorandum of
understanding dated 04.04.2007, deed of agreement dated
04.10.2007, payment receipt dated 04.10.2007. Ld. Counsel for
defendants has argued that the memorandum of understanding
clearly shows the amount of consideration as Rs. 1 crore and that
the plaintiff has defrauded the defendant by getting the sale deed
executed on an amount of Rs 13 lacs. 8. I am unable to find any justification in the claim of the
defendants. The defendants are not clarifying as to why the
defendant Hari Chand had gone to the Sub-registrar office and got
the sale deed registered if he was not intending to sale his property
to the plaintiff for Rs. 13 lacs. The claim of the defendants is that
only agreement to sale was to be registered. This cannot be
believed. There is no circumstance brought on record by the
defendant side to indicate that any written agreement to sale was
executed between the parties. If there was no written agreement to
sale the same could not have been registered at all. Secondly, as per
the claim of defendants, the possession was to be handed over in
future at the time of execution of sale deed. If this was so, there
could not have been any question for registration of agreement to
sale because such an agreement even without registration would
have been valid (as the same would not have fallen under Section
53A of the Transfer of Property Act). It is therefore, unbelievable

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 6/12
 that the defendant Hari Chand had gone to the sub-registrar office
for registering an Agreement to Sell that too which was never
executed. 9. So far as the memorandum of understanding dated
04.04.2007 is concerned, there is no claim of defendant side that it
was an agreement to sell and the said document was to be registered
for which defendant Hari Chand had gone to the Sub-registrar
office. Even otherwise, even a lay man will notice the change of
document. If defendant side intends to claim that this MOU was the
agreement to sell, it has not been explained as to why the defendant
Hari Chand would have signed another document for the purpose of
registration. As such, this MOU cannot help the defendant. A
registered document cannot be explained by way of another
document which is un-registered whether it was executed or later in
time. 10. There is a deed of agreement dated 04.10.2007 which shows
that Bhagwanti has agreed to re-sell the said property for an amount
of Rs. 13 lacs. The premise is that initially there was a fraud played
by Bhagwanti. It is however, interesting to note that though this
document has been shown to be executed on 04.10.2007 but it has
come on record through official witness appearing from Treasury
Office that the stamp paper was issued in the year 2008. It is clear
that there was complete fraud in respect of this deed of agreement.
Since, it is the defendant side who is relying on this document, they
are liable to explain as to how this could have happened, moreso
when the document in their possession. Unfortunately, they have not

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 7/12
 brought any material on record to explain the same. The only
inference which can be raised is that the defendant side in the year
2008 or subsequent thereto prepared this document i.e. deed of
agreement in a back date. Therefore, this document cannot be relied
upon at all. In such circumstances, possibility of usage of blank
signed papers cannot be ruled out. 11. The entire basis of the defendant side to claim a fraud is the
fact that consideration amount was Rs. 1 crore but buyer had only
given Rs. 13 lacs. The defendant has relied upon a judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Keval Krishan Vs. Rajesh Kumar
AIR2022 SC564 to contained that in the absence of consideration
the sale deed will be void. I am of the view that the said judgment
does not have any applicability herein. It is not a case of absence of
consideration but simply a case of inadequacy thereof. Illustration
of Section 25 of Contract Act clarifies that inadequate consideration
will not render the contract void. 12. Ld. Counsel for defendant has also argued that sale deed
should be declared as void and for this Order 7 Rule 7 may be
invoked. I am of the view that such an argument cannot be accepted.
If the defendant wanted to get cancellation of the sale deed, he
ought to have filed counter claim in this respect. The only thing
which the defendant may be entitled on the ground of inadequacy is
to show any separate, oral or written agreement regarding higher
consideration amount and to claim the balance amount if any.
However, the defendant cannot plead inadequacy as a ground to

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 8/12
 avoid the registered sale deed. However, such an issue is not raised
in this case and therefore, no comment is required to be made.
Defendant may file appropriate suit for recovery of money from
Bhagwanti or her LRs and may in such case plead exemption from
limitation under Section 14 of Limitation Act. They however, cannot
be allowed to frustrate the registered sale deed in this suit without
any justification. Issue no. i & iv-A are therefore decided in favor of
plaintiff and against the defendants. 13. Issue no. ii is taken up for consideration. Once the registered
sale deed is accepted, the only consequence would be that the
plaintiff/buyer is entitled to possess the property. Two situations
may occur. Firstly, that the possession of property was not
transferred while executing the sale deed and secondly, it was
transferred initially but later on repossessed forcibly. In the first
situation, the seller is bound to deliver possession of property to the
buyer under Section 55 of Transfer of Property Act. If he does not
do so, a simple injunction will be sufficient. In the second situation
the buyer may ask for recovery of possession on the basis of
ownership. The only difference in both the situations would be of
court fee and nothing else. For recovery of possession the buyer has
to pay the court fee on the value of the property as on date of
institution of the suit. In the present case, the suit was instituted in
the year 2008 and valuation was shown to be Rs. 31,50,000/-
whereon the plaintiff provided proper court fee. However, the Ld.
Counsel for defendant argued that at that point of time circle rates
were notified by the government. Ld. Counsel for defendants argued

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 9/12
 that judicial notice can be taken. In such circumstances, this court is
of the opinion that it may be directed that the plaintiff shall make up
the deficiency of court fee and only thereafter, the decree shall
become executable. 14. Ld. Counsel for defendant has vehemently argued that
possession of property was never handed over to the plaintiff. He
has quoted a judgment of Orissa High Court in "Kulsum Bibi Vs.
Ananta Prasad Rana (1975) 41 CutLT 447" to argue that when
possession was not handed over, ownership will not pass. It seems
that the said case was basically related to absence of consideration
and therefore, will not be of any help for the defendant herein. Even
otherwise, if such claim of defendant is accepted, every seller will
avoid a sale deed simply by avoiding delivery of possession in time.
This cannot be accepted. I am of the view that such claim does not
hamper the case of plaintiff. As seen above, in either situation, the
plaintiff is entitled for possession and therefore, irrespective of
whether initially possession was not handed over or possession was
forcibly taken later on by the defendant, is immaterial. It is held that
plaintiff is entitled for possession of the suit property. The issue no.
2 is decided in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants. 15. Issue no. iii & iv are taken up for consideration together.
Normally, Order 20 Rule 12 CPC says that an inquiry may be
conducted. However, it appears that in the present case the plaintiff
has demanded use and occupation charges along with interest and
has provided specific figure of Rs. 50,000/- per month. Since,

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 10/12
 specific issues were framed and the parties were allowed to lead
evidence thereon, there cannot be any question of any further
inquiry. It was for the parties to bring evidence in support or against
the issues so framed. There cannot be repeated trials for issues
which have already been framed and opportunity has already been
given. 16. There is no evidence brought by the plaintiff side on record
which can justify any amount of use and occupation charges. There
is a bare claim in the evidence affidavit of PW-1 Bhim Singh
without any basis or supporting material. A guess work is not
permissible in air. Even for a guess work there ought to have been
some kind of material provided by the plaintiff. In the absence of
any such material, we cannot accept such higher claim of the
plaintiff for use and occupation charges. The plaintiff had invested
Rs. 13 lacs in the year 2007 in this property. The only reasonable
material is this amount. If the plaintiff had kept her amount of Rs.
13 lacs in the bank instead of purchasing the property, she would
have received interest. In such circumstances, at best the plaintiff
may be allowed a simple interest of 6% per annum from the date of
institution of the suit i.e. 22.10.2008 till the date of this decree. This
amount will come around Rs. 13 lacs as almost 16 years have
lapsed. The plaintiff shall be entitled to file a separate suit if she
wants to recover any higher amount as occupation charges for any
period beyond the date of decree. It is clarified that had the plaintiff
brought any cogent material to show a particular amount of use and
occupation charges, the same would have been allowed in favor of

CS DJ No. 77762/16 Bhagwanti Vs. Hari Chand And Anr. Page no. 11/12
 the plaintiff. The instant direction has been made only because no
material has been brought despite opportunity of evidence. The
issue no. iii & iv are decided accordingly. 17. In view of the aforesaid, the suit is partly decreed in favor of
the plaintiff and against the defendants with a decree of recovery of
possession of the suit property along with a money decree of Rs. 13
lacs. Cost of the suit is also awarded in favor of plaintiff. It is
however, directed that decree shall be executable only after payment
of deficient court fee in respect of possession and also in respect of
occupation charges. Decree be prepared accordingly.