the present appeal, we would assume that the various allegations of
fact which have been made in the complaint by the appellant are
correct. Even after making that allowance, we find that the
complaint does not disclose the commission of any offence on the
part of the respondents under Section 420 Penal Code, 1860. There
is nothing in the complaint to show that the respondents had
dishonest or fraudulent intention at the time the appellant parted
with Rs. 35.000/- There is also nothing to indicate that the
respondents induced the appellant to pay them Rs. 35,000/- by
deceiving him. It is further not the case of the appellant that a
representation was made, the respondents knew the same to be
false. The fact that the respondents subsequently did not abide by
their commitment that they would show the appellant to be the
proprietor of Drang Transport Corporation and would also render
accounts to him in the month of December might create civil liability
on the respondents for the offence of cheating." 29. To put it in other words, the case of cheating and dishonest
intention starts with the very inception of the transaction. But in the 16 case of criminal breach of trust, a person who comes into possession
of the movable property and receives it legally, but illegally retains it
or converts it to his own use against the terms of the contract, then
the question is, in a case like this, whether the retention is with
dishonest intention or not, whether the retention involves criminal
breach of trust or only a civil liability would depend upon the facts of
each case. 30. The distinction between mere breach of contract and the offence
of criminal breach of trust and cheating is a fine one. In case of
cheating, the intention of the accused at the time of inducement
should be looked into which may be judged by a subsequent
conduct, but for this, the subsequent conduct is not the sole test.
Mere breach of contract cannot give rise to a criminal prosecution for
cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown right from
the beginning of the transaction i.e. the time when the offence is said
to have been committed. Therefore, it is this intention, which is the
gist of the offence. Whereas, for the criminal breach of trust, the
property must have been entrusted to the accused or he must have
dominion over it. The property in respect of which the offence of
breach of trust has been committed must be either the property of
some person other than the accused or the beneficial interest in or
ownership' of it must be of some other person. The accused must
hold that property on trust of such other person. Although the
offence, i.e. the offence of breach of trust and cheating involve
dishonest intention, yet they are mutually exclusive and different in
basic concept. There is a distinction between criminal breach of trust
and cheating. For cheating, criminal intention is necessary at the
time of making a false or misleading representation i.e., since
inception. In criminal breach of trust, mere proof of entrustment is
sufficient. Thus, in case of criminal breach of trust, the offender is
lawfully entrusted with the property, and he dishonestly 17 misappropriated the same. Whereas, in case of cheating, the
offender fraudulently or dishonestly induces a person by deceiving
him to deliver any property. In such a situation, both the offences
cannot co-exist simultaneously. 31. At the most, the court of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate
could have issued process for the offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC i.e. cheating but in any circumstances no case
of criminal breach of trust is made out. The reason being that
indisputably there is no entrustment of any property in the case at
hand. It is not even the case of the complainant that any property
was lawfully entrusted to the appellants and that the same has
been dishonestly misappropriated. The case of the complainant is
plain and simple. He says that the price of the goods sold by him
has not been paid. Once there is a sale, Section 406 of the IPC goes
out of picture. According to the complainant, the invoices raised by
him were not cleared. No case worth the name of cheating is also
made out. 32. Even if the Magistrate would have issued process for the offence
punishable under Section 420 of the IPC, i.e., cheating the same
would have been liable to be quashed and set aside, as none of the
ingredients to constitute the offence of cheating are disclosed from
the materials on record. 33. It has been held in State of Gujarat v. Jaswantlal
Nathalal reported in (1968) 2 SCR 408, "The term "entrusted"
found in Section 405 IPC governs not only the words "with the
property" immediately following it but also the words "or with any
dominion over the property" occurring thereafter--see Velji Raghvaji
Patel v. State of Maharashtra [(1965) 2 SCR 429]. Before there can
be any entrustment there must be a trust meaning thereby an
obligation annexed to the ownership of property and a confidence
reposed in and accepted by the owner or declared and accepted by 18 him for the benefit of another or of another and the owner. But that
does not mean that such an entrustment need conform to all the
technicalities of the law of trust -- see Jaswantrai Manilal
Akhaney v. State of Bombay [1956 SCR 483]. The expression
"entrustment" carries with it the implication that the person handing
over any property or on whose behalf that property is handed over to
another, continues to be its owner. Further the person handing over
the property must have confidence in the person taking the property
so as to create a fiduciary relationship between them. A mere
transaction of sale cannot amount to an "entrustment"". 34. Similarly, in Central Bureau of Investigation, SPE, SIU(X), New
Delhi v. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd., Calcutta , (1996) 5 SCC
591 this Court held that the expression "entrusted with property" (Emphasis supplied)" 2 2024 SCC OnLine SC 54 20 33. The following was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Parveen v. State of

 Haryana3 :- 34. The petitioner working in the capacity of an administrative officer could not

 have dominated the management of the company to act perversely,

 motivatedly and illegally to cheat the employees of the same, being an

 employee himself. The petitioner had been inducted into the company

 following similar process like other rebellious colleagues including the

 opposite party no.2. The petitioner too was subjected to the same fate of

 being deprived of his salary like others who protested. The petitioner was not

 the receiver or the custodian of the fund of the company in his individual

 capacity dictating the disbursement of the same at his own whims and

 frenzy. 3 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1184 21 35. The defacto complainant acted according to the stipulations of the company,

 complying the formalities subject to payment of salary in lieu of his

 employment, where the petitioner did not have an iota of role to play or even

 be intrusive being similarly circumstanced. Presumption and or suspicion on

 the part of the defacto complainant of any proximity of the petitioner with

 the management of the company influencing the same to act to their

 financial detriment, discomposure and loss are utterly imaginative and

 figmantary, devoid of legal basis. 36. The contents of the complaint did not explicitly and categorically describe the

 action on the part of the petitioner to implicate him. The complaint should

 mention the role of the accused to the extent to satisfy the elements to

 constitute the offences alleged to have been committed. No casual connection

 exists in the relationship between the parties. The petitioner did not

 intentionally deceive the complainant at the inception to deposit money,

 devoid of any authority or capacity or position to accept the same as well as

 to deny grant of salary to other employees. 37. The Learned Advocate representing the State has placed the entire case diary

 for the perusal of this Court and submitted at the nascent stage the

 proceedings should not be quashed. Exercising its power under Section 482 of the CrPC, if the High Court does not find any ingredients of the alleged

 offense at a preliminary stage to convince the court, specifically in the

 instant case where apart from conjectures, surmises, presumptions and

 aberration, the allegations against the petitioner being indistinct, irrational, 22 illogical barring legality, the proceedings shall not be allowed to continue to

 result in the abuse of power. 38. In view of the above discussions, the proceedings being G.R. Case No. 531 of

 2009 pending before the Learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,

 Durgapur, Burdwan arising out of New Township Police Station Case No. 61

 of 2009 dated 28.05.2009 under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of the Indian Penal

 Code and all orders passed therein including the order dated 02.05.2012

 passed by the Learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Durgapur,

 Burdwan is quashed. 39. The criminal revisional application being CRR 1673 of 2013 is allowed. 40. Accordingly, CRR 1673 of 2013 stands disposed of. Connected application, if

 there be any, also stands disposed of. 41. There is no order as to costs. 42. Department is directed to return the case diary. 43. Let the copy of this judgment be sent to the Learned Trial Court as well as

 the police station concerned for necessary information and compliance. 44. All parties shall act on the server copy of this judgment duly downloaded

 from the official website of this court. (Ananya Bandyopadhyay, J.)