The petitioner, who is under incarceration from 27 th July, 2019,

 i.e. more than a year, for having been arrested for committing
 financial fraud has come up before this Court, seeking regular bail. 2. Based on a First Information Report (FIR), the police arrested the
 petitioner on 27.7.2019, in FIR No. 27/19, dated 16.03.2019, registered
 under Sections 420 , 406 , 409 , 467 , 468 & 120-B of Indian Penal Code,
 1860, ( IPC ), in Police Station, Talai, District Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh,
 disclosing cognizable and non-bailable offences. 3. Earlier, the petitioner filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before
 Sessions Judge, Bilaspur, HP. However, vide order dated 29.08.2020, the 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Court dismissed the petition, primarily because the amount involved is
 huge. 4. I have heard Mr. Prashant Sharma and Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned

 . Counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Ashwani K. Sharma, learned Additional
 Advocate General for the State. FACTS: 5. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner and other co-accused
 are forging of signatures and disbursing the loan to fictitious persons in
 connivance with other persons of the society. In all the police has filed

 the report under Section 173(2) Cr. P.C., against 13 persons including the
 petitioner herein. The petitioner allegedly misapprpriated the Society
 Money with his co-accused who was working as Secretary of Gram Sewa

 Sehkari Sabha Simit, Talai, District Bilaspur. During the audit report 2017-

 18, various financial irregularities were detected, which led in registration
 of FIR. PREVIOUS CRIMINAL HISTORY 6. As per the petitioner, the following case is pending against the
 petitioner: SUBMISSIONS: 7. The learned counsel for the bail petitioner submits that the

 allegations are false and concocted. He, on instructions, further contends
 that except three all other accused stand released on bail. 8. On the contrary, Mr. Ashwani K. Sharma, learned Additional
 Advocate General, contended that the Petitioner was the mastermind and
 Police has collected sufficient prima facie evidence. He further submits
 that if this Court is inclined to grant bail, then such a bond must be subject
 to very stringent conditions. ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 9. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending upon the heinous

 . nature of the offence, terms of the sentence prescribed in the statute for

 such a crime, probability of the accused fleeing from justice, hampering
 the investigation, and doing away with the victim(s) and witnesses. The

 Court is under an obligation to maintain a balance between all
 stakeholders and safeguard the interests of the victim, accused, society,
 and State. 10. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and others v. State of Punjab , 1980 (2)

 SCC 565, a Constitutional bench of Supreme Court holds in Para 30, as
 follows: 11. In State of Rajasthan, Jaipur v. Balchand , AIR 1977 SC 2447,
 Supreme Court holds, 2. The basic rule may perhaps be tersely put as bail,
 not jail, except where there are circumstances

 suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the
 course of justice or creating other troubles in the
 shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses

 and the like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement
 on bail from the court. We do not intend to be
 exhaustive but only illustrative. 3. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved is
 likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of
 justice and must weigh with us when considering the
 question of jail. So also the heinousness of the
 crime. 12. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of
 Andhra Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240, Supreme Court in Para 16, holds: . 15. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav ,
 2005 (2) SCC 42, a three-member bench of Supreme Court holds: 15. In Dataram Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22,
 Supreme Court holds, 1. A fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence
 is the presumption of innocence, meaning thereby
 that a person is believed to be innocent until found
 guilty. However, there are instances in our criminal
 law where a reverse onus has been placed on an
 accused with regard to some specific offences but ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2020 20:18:22 :::HCHP 5 that is another matter and does not detract from the
 fundamental postulate in respect of other offences.
 Yet another important facet of our criminal
 jurisprudence is that the grant of bail is the general

 . rule and putting a person in jail or in a prison or in a

 correction home (whichever expression one may
 wish to use) is an exception. 6. However, we should not be understood to mean

 that bail should be granted in every case. The grant
 or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the
 judge hearing the matter and though that discretion
 is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously and in
 a humane manner and compassionately. Also,

 conditions for the grant of bail ought not to be so
 strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby
 making the grant of bail illusory. 16. In the present case, out of 13, 10 accused stand released on bail and

 the petitioner and two other accused are still in judicial custody. One of
 the bail orders, passed by a coordinate Bench of this Court in Cr.MP(M
 Nos. 1761 & 1762 of 2019, is placed on record. According to the

 investigators, the petitioner is one of the main accused. Be that as it may,
 he has already suffered incarceration for more than a year. Moreover, the
 bail order does not stop the investigator to conduct further investigation

 and make recoveries. In case the petitioner does not cooperate, then it

 shall be open for the investigator to file application for cancellation of
 present bail. 17. Mr. Ashwani K. Sharma, learned Additional Advocate General

 contends that the investigation regarding recovery of money from the
 accounts from where it was illegally transferred and siphoned off, is still
 continuing. He further contends that the money has been illegally
 transferred out of India. 18. Given the above submissions, it is for the investigator to investigate
 the matter in the light of the provisions contained under Prevention of
 Money Laundering Act, 2002 and other statutory provisions. It shall also ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2020 20:18:22 :::HCHP 6 be open for the State to conduct Forensic audit in the affairs of the Society
 involved in the offence. 19. A bare perusal of the report under Section 173 Cr.PC reveals that

 . the investigation is incomplete qua these aspects. Needless to say that
 the State has all rights to conduct further investigation and the bail order
 does not stop the investigator to conduct investigation and make

 recoveries. The petitioner shall fully cooperate with the investigator
 about the fact that where the money has gone. If he fails to
 cooperate truthfully, the State shall be at liberty to seek cancellation

 of the bail granted on that account alone. 20. While deciding bail, this Court cannot discuss the evidence
 threadbare. Without commenting on the merits of the case, the fact that

 the investigation is almost complete and the accused is in jail for the last

 one year, coupled with the ongoing situation due to Covid-19 pandemic,
 would make out a case for bail. 21. The nature of the offence also does not restrict bail because of the

 prolonged custody. The possibility of his influencing the course of the
 investigation, or tampering with evidence (including intimidating
 witnesses), the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care of by

 imposing elaborative conditions. 22. The address of the petitioner is Ashwani Sharma alias Ashwani
 Gautam, aged 60 years, r/o Chungi, No. 6 behind Harijan Chattarwas Wali
 Gali, Hanumangarh, Rajashtan, therefore, his presence can be secured. 23. Further incarceration of the accused during the period of trial is
 neither warranted, nor justified, or going to achieve any significant
 purpose. 24. The report under Section 173(2) CrPC does not restrict the police's
 powers to investigate further by following the law. Needless to say, that
 the Prosecution has all the rights of further investigation under S. 173(8) CrPC, following the law. 25. To ensure that the petitioner does not get an opportunity to tamper
 with the evidence, while on bail and the Court is putting the stringent
 conditions and this bail shall be subject to the strict terms. . 26. Following the decision of this Court in Abhishek Kumar Singh v.
 State of HP, Cr.MP(M) No. 1017 of 2020, the petitioner shall be released
 on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to his furnishing a personal

 bond of Rs. Five Lacs only (INR 5,00,000/-), and shall either furnish two
 sureties of Rs. 25,00,000/- (Twenty Five lacs) amount to the satisfaction of
 the Chief Judicial Magistrate/Ilaqua Magistrate/Duty Magistrate/the Court

 exercising jurisdiction over the concerned Police Station where FIR is
 registered, or the aforesaid personal bond and fixed deposit(s) for Rs.
 Five Lacs only (INR 5,00,000/-), made in favour of Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Bilaspaur, H.P., from any of the banks where the stake of the

 State is more than 50%, or any of the stable private banks, e.g., HDFC
 Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, etc., with the clause of automatic
 renewal of principal, and liberty of the interest reverting to the linked

 account. Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the
 account of the petitioner. If such a fixed deposit is made manually, then
 the original receipt has to be deposited. If made online, then the copy

 attested by any Advocate has to be filed, and the depositor shall get the

 online liquidation disabled. It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to
 choose between surety bonds and fixed deposits. During the trial's
 pendency, it shall be open for the petitioner to apply for substitution of

 fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. Subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the entire amount of fixed deposit along with
 interest credited, if any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor(s).
 The Court shall have a lien over the deposits until discharged by
 substitution, and otherwise up to the expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973. The furnishing of bail bonds shall be deemed
 acceptance of all stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: account that even earlier, the Court had cautioned the accused not to
 do so. o) During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner commits any

 offence where the sentence prescribed is seven years or more, then
 the State may move an appropriate application for cancellation of this
 bail. p) In case of violation of any of the conditions as stipulated in this
 order, the State/Public Prosecutor may apply for cancellation of bail
 of the petitioner. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall continue to remain in

 force throughout the trial and also after that in terms of Section 437-A of the CrPC. q) The petitioner shall surrender all firearms along with
 ammunitions, if any, along with the arms license to the concerned

 authority within 30 days from today. However, subject to the
 provisions of the Indian Arms Act, 1959 , the petitioner shall be
 entitled to renew and take it back, in case of acquittal in this case. 27. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating

 fundamental, human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any
 situation, then for modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a
 reasoned application before this Court, and after taking cognizance, even

 before the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
 and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 28. The learned counsel representing the accused as well as the officer
 in whose presence the petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall
 explain all conditions of this bail order to the petitioner, in vernacular. 29. The petitioner undertakes to comply with all the directions given in
 this order. Furnishing of bail bonds by the petitioner is the acceptance of
 all such conditions. 30. Consequently, the petitioner shall be released on bail in the present
 case, in connection with the FIR mentioned above, on her/his furnishing
 bail bonds in the terms described above. . 31. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the
 Police or the investigating agency, from further investigation in accordance
 with law. 32. The present bail order is only for the FIR mentioned above. It shall
 not be a blanket order of bail in any other case(s) registered against the
 petitioner. 33. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of
 opinion on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these
 comments. 34.

 The Court Master shall handover an authenticated copy of this order

 to the Counsel for the Petitioner and the Learned Advocate General if they
 ask for the same. 35. In return for the freedom curtailed for breaking the law, the Court

 believes that the accused shall also reciprocate through desirable
 behavior. 36. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. All

 pending applications, if any, stand closed. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge. September 17 , 2020 (PK) ::: Downloaded on - 18/09/2020 20:18:22 :::HCHP