1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 22.07.2025 seeking information on
the following points: 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 27.08.2025 alleging that the information provided was incomplete, false
and misleading. The FAA vide order dated 23.09.2025 upheld the reply given by the
CPIO. 4. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated Nil. Hearing Proceedings & Decision: 5. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Dr. L.M. Pant, Scientist and CPIO,
attended the hearing through video conference; and Anushree Tomar, Additional
Director, New Delhi, attended the hearing in-person. 6. The appellant inter alia submitted that the information sought in the RTI
application pertained to recruitment scam in DRDO. However, the respondent had
deliberately concealed the information, despite his contention that the matter involved CIC/DRADO/A/2025/647871 Page 2 of 4 allegations of corruption. 7. The respondent while defending their case inter alia endorsed their initial reply
dated 05.08.2025. Further, the representatives from Dehradun Office submitted that the
averred complaint was not received at their end, hence, there was no information
available with them to be disclosed to the appellant. 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observes that the respondent replied to the appellant
on 05.08.2025 and declined the information. However, the respondent has taken
inconsistent stances, including exemption of Section 24 (1) as well as the plea that
information sought was not covered within ambit of Section 2 (f) of the RTI Act.
Keeping in view the above, the CPIO is advised to give a firm and clear reply in future
cases, without taking multiple grounds for denial of information in conjunction that
reflects self-contradiction and inconsistency. Further, during the course of hearing, the CPIO submitted that the information
sought in the RTI application, as a matter of fact, is not available under their custody. In
view of the above, the respondent is counselled to respond to RTI applications with
proper application of mind, taking into account the applicable provisions of the RTI Act as well as records available under their custody. Further, the CPIO having confirmed that
the information sought is not available under their custody, no further relief is warranted
in terms of merits of the case. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Anandi Ramalingam) (आनंदी रामल ंगम)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयुक्त)
 निनां क/Date: 12.02.2026 CIC/DRADO/A/2025/647871 Page 3 of 4 Authenticated true copy

O. P. Pokhriyal (ओ.पी. पोखररयाल)
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: