(i) to execute a mortgage or furnish any other security
for securing the repayment of any loan which the
borrower is not willing to repay at once: Provided that
where only a part of the loan has been advanced the
lendor is willing to advance the remaining part of the
loan in terms of the contract; or (ii) to take up and pay for any debentures of a
company; (b) where the suit is for,-- (i) the execution of a formal deed of partnership, the
parties having commenced to carry on the business of
the partnership; or (ii) the purchase of a share of a partner in a firm; (c) where the suit is for the enforcement of a contract
for the construction of any building or the execution of
any other work on land: Provided that the following
conditions are fulfilled, namely:-- performance of the contract is not an adequate relief;
and (iii) the defendant has, in persuance of the contract,
obtained possession of the whole or any part of the
land on which the building is to be constructed or
other work is to be executed." (62 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018] 55. Lastly, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents has

referred to a letter dated 27.09.2017 issued by the Indian Banks

Association and submitted that the present writ petitions have no

legs to stand. Moreover, as per learned Senior Counsel for the

respondents the said letter dated 27.09.2017, in no manner,

suggests that the Banks at any stage agreed that the employer-

employee relationship exists with the Business Correspondents. In

fact, the Banks always took the stand that no employer-employee

relationship existed. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents

also submitted that service of notice by the Employees Provident

Fund Organization is not a finding, whereas findings have already

been recorded by the Division Benches of Hon'ble Gujarat High

Court and Hon'ble Allahabad High Court, as aforementioned, which

were to the effect that no employer-employee relationship exists

between the Business Correspondents and the Banks. 56. The contentious pleadings and the assiduous

submissions founded thereon have been duly assayed, alongwith

the precedent laws cited at the Bar. 57. This Court finds that the order dated 16.11.2017

passed by this Hon'ble Court in S.B.Civil Writ Petition

No.6462/2017 ( Nitin Kumar Agrawal & Ors. Vs. The State Bank of

India & Ors. ), whereby the writ petitions were dismissed as having

become infructuous, however, with liberty to the petitioners to

take appropriate remedies against the future action, putting their

arrangement to peril, in accordance with law, as also the fact that
 (63 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

the adjudication in the earlier writ petition was not done on merits

of the case, the same cannot be said to operate as res judicata in

the present case. 58. In Noharlal Verma v. Distt. Coop. Central Bank

Ltd., reported in (2008) 14 SCC 445, the Hon'ble Apex Court

has held that the earlier application preferred by the appellant

therein became infructuous; the earlier application was not

decided on merits, and therefore, this does not operate as res

judicata. The relevant para of the said judgment reads as under: 59. The question pertains to the livelihood, and thus, the

rights of the petitioners to agitate the action, diminishing their

rights protected under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,
 (64 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

cannot be denied, while availing the remedy of writ, which

obviously is available to the petitioners in such circumstances. 60. In Olga Tellis & Ors. Vs. Bombay Municipal

Corporation & Ors. , reported in (1985) 3 SCC 545, the

Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down the following precedent law:- 61. In the present case, the respondents have denied the

employer-employee relationship; but by way of Scheme, the RBI,

which is the Apex Institution of Banking in this country, under a

common policy approach regarding banking services, has taken an

initiative, in the related exercise, for increasing the banking

outreach and ensuring greater financial inclusions, which has to be

followed by all Nationalized and Private Banks of the country. 62. The significant policy decisions were also taken and the

Banks were accordingly permitted to engage Business

Correspondents on certain terms and conditions, after adopting a

regular selection process, which includes an advertisement and

also laying down of the eligibility conditions therefor. (66 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018] 63. The Business Correspondents were of two types,

namely, (i) Corporate Business Correspondents and (ii) Individual

Business Correspondents, and the aim of having Individual

Business Correspondents was to reach to the far flung areas where

a branch or regular employee of the Bank may not prove to be

financially viable. The Individual Business Correspondents were

engaged by the Banks so as to target the rural folk and the

companies were permitted with the intention of further intensifying

the process of outreaching the banking services to the remotest

and unbankable areas. The terms and conditions for engaging the

petitioners clearly reveals employer-employee relationship

between the Business Correspondents and the Banks. 64. The eligibility of individuals like retired persons, owners

of kirana store/medical/Fair Price shops would not have any affect

on the nature of work performed by the petitioners being the

contractual appointees, as the various relevant documents indicate

that the petitioners have been given appointment on the

conditions, which have been stipulated by the Bank itself. 65. As far as entitlement of the Business Correspondents to

work in that capacity is concerned, the same is part of the

contractual condition to strengthen their hands for completing the

tasks of making inroads through the rung of citizens, who are

otherwise not accessible to the mainstream banking. 66. On a careful reading of the RBI Guidelines, it is

revealed that the same have been issued under Section 23 of the

Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and such Guidelines are supposed
 (67 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

to be a guiding factor to the Banks of this country, and thus, were

to be applied by the Banks without any violation thereof. 67. The national spectrum of Banking, which has a

statutory influence of the RBI, clearly reflects that the Business

Correspondents were required, in terms of the policy of Banking,

to reach the last line of the citizens, who may be inaccessible due

to rural existence, geographical conditions, economically under

developed clusters, far flung areas and other difficult to banking

zones. 68. The rising trend/pattern of the State functionaries

hiring and using contractual/ad hoc employees for carrying out

perennial jobs for years altogether and dispensing with their

services like completely disposable commodities, amounts to an

unfair dilution and negation of the precious constitutional

guarantees. No State can be allowed to violate inviolable

fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India. 69. The precedent laws cited by learned counsel for the

petitioners clearly indicate the settled legal proposition that one

set of contractual employees cannot be replaced by another set of

contractual employees, unless their conduct and performance is

under the cloud. Such contractual employees could be replaced by

regularly selected employees by the employer, and further, if the

scheme or project, in which such employees are working itself

comes to an end. 70. The precedent law laid down by the Division Bench of

this Hon'ble Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. Kusum Devi &
 (68 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

Ors. [D.B.Civil Special Appeal (Writ) No.1231/2017 decided

on 20.03.2018], which has been referred by this Court in the

judgment rendered in Mahendra Kumar & Anr. Vs. Union of

India & Ors. (supra) cited by learned counsel for the petitioners

and as reproduced hereinabove, throw much weight behind the

petitioners. 71. In the instant case, the employers falling under the

definition of 'State' under Article 12 of the Constitution of India

have clearly deployed a mechanism to exploit the masses of this

country by undermining their right to livelihood by imposing

conditions, which admittedly, do not provide for the protection and

strength of a regular appointment, but even take away the basic

protection available to contractual employees. The law is now well

settled that until the contractual appointment continues to fulfill

the task, for which such contractual appointees have been

appointed and the work is being done satisfactorily, the rights of

such contractual appointees normally need to be protected to this

extent, unless they are being sought to be replaced by regularly

selected employees, or the project/scheme under which they are

working itself comes to an end. 72. The present case in hand is not a case where the work

being discharged by the Business Correspondents has to come an

end, but the only thing is that they are being placed under the

corporates, which would only render them exposed to the

exploitative tendencies of a corporate entity, particularly in light of
 (69 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

the fact that the corporate entity itself would not have any stake

in the institution, and thus, the institutional welfare of its

employees would never be its prerogative. 73. The impugned action of the respondents also runs

contrary to the very purpose, for which the Business

Correspondents were employed. Admittedly, the accessibility and

reach of banking services is far from adequate in the rural and

remote areas. The push of government policies to expand the net

of banking services and dispensing benefits/grants/subsidies

through the banking channel, has given a new impetus to the

purpose and role of Business Correspondents. The reality and

challenges of rural/remote areas have not diminished in any

manner. The Corporates, who as a model operate on

considerations of profitability and commercial viability, cannot

even be expected to further the cause of banking access to all in

remote/rural areas. The States functionaries cannot be allowed to

shun their constitutional responsibilities and goals, while

continuing to operate as biggest players in a particular segment. 74. This Court also finds that the judgments cited by

learned Senior Counsel for the respondents do not apply in the

present facts and circumstances, as the writ jurisdiction is a wide

jurisdiction and cannot be ousted merely on the ground that

conditions, which have been laid down in respect of the

contractual appointment, were such that the employer Banks can

wash away their hands from their responsibility to take work from

the Business Correspondents in their direct supervision. Even if

there is a risk factor, then also the Banks have to find ways to
 (70 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

minimize those risks; however, they cannot ride over the

shoulders of the poor Business Correspondents to bring them in

the corporate arena, as the recent examples have shown that the

corporate houses are not fully risk proof and they have caused

fabric damage to the banking system of this country, more than

the one caused by the individuals. 75. Thus, the argument of learned Senior Counsel for the

respondents that to plug the loopholes and risks in the individual

Business Correspondents, the corporatization of the same is being

permitted, does not hold good, as it is common knowledge that

some of the corporate houses have caused huge damages to the

fabric of the banking structure of this country at the cost of a poor

man and the society at large. 76. The argument of learned Senior Counsel for the

respondents regarding non-existence of the employer-employee

relationship, in the precedent law so cited, would not hold good in

the present set of facts and circumstances, as in these cases the

Banks have admittedly issued advertisement and invited the

petitioners to work as Business Correspondents with the Banks on

particular terms and conditions, which include eligibility criteria as

well. 77. The petitioners in this case are not seeking

regularization in the public employment. The petitioners are

merely seeking that their services may not be transferred to the

corporate entities, as it would defeat the purpose of their

employment, create scope for exploitation and would render the
 (71 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

petitioners very weak and their right to livelihood would also be

denuded of fundamental protections. 78. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents has harped

upon the alternative remedy, but this Court has seen that there is

consistency in the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court from

time to time that every case where right to livelihood is at stake,

the same calls for intervention in the writ jurisdiction. 79. The judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Gujarat High

Court in Prabal Kumar Kulshrestha and 58 Others Vs. Bank

of India and 3 Others (supra), although reproduced

hereinabove, but reiteration of the relevant portion thereof would

be apposite, and the same reads as under:- 80. It would also be apt to reiterate the relevant portion of

the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in Gulamrasul Habibhai Badi & Ors.Vs. State Bank of India

(SBI) & Ors. (supra), and the same reads as under: The said judgments cannot be read against the present

petitioners, as it is clear that the petitioners do not fall under the
 (73 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

class of 'Service Provider', but have been specifically brought into

the contractual regime of employees to profess the banking

amongst the underprivileged and inaccessible class of economy,

and thus, they cannot be denied their right to continue as Business

Correspondents - until the project continues and until their

performance is found to be satisfactory or unless they are being

sought to be replaced by regular selected employees - simply on

the ground that they were only service providers. 81. We are in agreement with the learned counsel for the

petitioners to this extent that the Service Provider is a person,

who provide requisite services - lock, stock and barrel - on being

paid, whereas in this case, the employer is paying an amount to

the petitioners for getting several works done, which include

opening the accounts, financial transaction, getting FDRs, RDs

payment under the Atal Pension Yojana, recovery of loan amount,

payment with regard to the government project, opening of Jan

Dhan Accounts, etc., and thus, the same are the banking jobs,

which on behalf of the Banks, are being conducted by the

petitioners as Business Correspondents, and thus, it cannot be

said that the petitioners are merely service providers to the Bank,

as in fact, they are providing banking services to the customers on

behalf of the Banks. 82. The respondents have failed to show even a single

reason as to why the petitioners are being placed in the hands of

the corporate companies and as to what was the need of taking

such action so as to bring them under such arena, more
 (74 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

particularly, when the petitioners are providing satisfactory

services to the respondents. 83. It is not the case of the respondents that the

petitioners' services are not satisfactory and they are not able to

perform the tasks, which have been assigned to them by the

respondents. 84. The respondents have further failed to satisfy this

Court, on the strength of the relevant RBI Guidelines, as to the

function of the Business Correspondents, like the present

petitioners, which could be performed by the corporate entities in

a better way. 85. The individuals having the requisite skills and vast

experience in the related field were required to utilize their skills

and experience to outreach the banking services to those areas,

where the banking system would ordinarily not even be existing,

which is a daunting task, and the same is being performed by the

petitioners to the utmost satisfaction of the respondents, and thus,

when the petitioners are providing satisfactory services to the

respondents, they should not be saddled with the unfair practice of

putting them in the hands of corporates, which could be exploiting

these employees, as the corporates do not have direct stakes in

these employees, which would encourage them to provide

satisfactory remuneration and working conditions to them. 86. The network of Business Correspondents has been

created by the RBI Guidelines and circulars issued from time to

time. This Court finds that the constitutional mandate requires the
 (75 of 75)
 [CW-4304/2018]

relevance of the various communications and the policy in vogue

as reflected in the RBI circulars need to be strengthened, lessening

the gap between have and have nots, so as to achieve the desired

goals to outreach the banking services to the areas, where the

banking services do not even exist. 87. In light of the aforesaid observations and the

aforementioned precedential backdrop, the present petitioners

need to be protected, and therefore, the present writ petitions are

allowed to the extent that while quashing and setting aside the

action of the respondents of corporatization of the present

petitioners as Individual Business Correspondents, the

respondents are directed to continue the petitioners as Business

Correspondents directly with them, as they are continuing for last

many years and the respondents are also directed not to

terminate the services of the petitioners so as to replace them by

another set of contractual employees or Corporate Business

Correspondents, unless there is a performance deficit on the part

of the petitioners. (DR. PUSHPENDRA SINGH BHATI)J.

Skant/-