1. The petitioner has approached this Court seeking grant of regular bail in

 respect of a case registered vide FIR No.229 dated 19.11.2020 at Police

 Station Ding, District Sirsa under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of

 Indian Penal Code, wherein offence under Section 66-D of Information

 Technology Act, 2008 was added later on. 2. The FIR in question was lodged at the instance of SI Rajpal, wherein it is

 alleged that on 19.11.2020 when he alongwith other police officials were

 patrolling near Village Sherpura, then a secret informer informed that Sanjay

 Son of Dharambir, Ajay Kumar, Govind Singh, Vikas, Sanjay Son of Pritam,

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 04-06-2021 23:44:36 ::: (2) CRM-M-6003-2021 (O&M)

 Darshan and Harsh used to purchase activated SIMs of different companies

 on the basis of forged documents in huge numbers and used to insert the

 same in different mobiles phones and laptops and caused financial losses to

 various companies in an illegal manner. The information was further to the

 effect that the said persons at the given point of time were present at

 Sherpura Bus Stand. Pursuant to receipt of said information, a raid was

 conducted at the bus stand, where the aforesaid 7 persons were apprehended

 and their search led to recovery of mobile phones and a large number of

 SIMs from each of them. From one of the accused as many as 49 SIMs were

 recovered while from others 28 and 30 SIMs were recovered. Upon being

 questioned the said persons could not produce any document pertaining to

 ownership of the recovered mobile phones or SIMs. It is further the case of

 prosecution that during the course of interrogation some of the accused made

 disclosure statements including Sanjay Son of Pritam. The said statement is

 annexed as Annexure R-4, wherein Sanjay disclosed that a scheme had been

 floated by 'Dhani App' as per which upon deposit of `10,000/-, an amount of

 `100/- was given as cashback/bonus and that one person could avail of such

 scheme only twice a month. Sanjay stated that in order to avail of said

 cashback/bonus, they made transactions through fake SIMs and fake e-mail

 IDs and used to fleece the companies. He further disclosed that in order to

 avoid detection of their identity they used to get the 'root' of the mobile

 phones done, which was being got done through Vikramjit Singh from his

 shop situated at Ding Road, District Sirsa, who used to charge `800/- per

 mobile phone. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is

 nowhere named in the FIR and is sought to be nominated on the basis of a

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 04-06-2021 23:44:36 ::: (3) CRM-M-6003-2021 (O&M)

 disclosure statement made by co-accused, the authenticity and veracity of

 which would be debatable. Learned counsel has further submitted that, in any

 case, even as per the said disclosure statement, the petitioner cannot be said

 to be the beneficiary of the amounts siphoned off from various companies

 and that he at best can be said to have provided technical assistance, which

 he had provided as a matter of his business as he was running a mobile

 accessories shop. Learned counsel has further submitted that, in any case,

 since the petitioner has been behind bars since the last about 4 months and

 challan already stands presented, he deserves to be released on bail. 4. Opposing the petition, the learned State counsel has submitted that since it is

 with the help of the petitioner that the co-accused were able to commit the

 fraud in question and to cause huge loss running in crores to various

 companies including Dhani App, Amazon, Paytm and Payzapp, his

 complicity in the entire scam is clearly evident and, as such, he does not

 deserve the concession of bail. Learned State counsel has further submitted

 that it was on account of the change of 'root' that the same mobile phone and

 SIM could be used several times for the purpose of availing the

 cashback/bonus by way of several sham transactions and that but for the

 technical assistance of the petitioner, the entire fraud could not have been

 committed. Learned State counsel has, however, informed that the petitioner

 as on date has been behind bars since the last about 4 months and that he

 stands involved in one more case. It has been informed that challan already

 stands presented and charges are yet to be framed and that as many as 36

 PWs have been cited by the prosecution. 5. I have considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. 6. It is not in dispute that the petitioner is not named in the FIR and that his

 name surfaced during the course of interrogation when co-accused disclosed

 the modus operandi of the fraud and stated that it was by way of 'rooting' of

 mobile phones that the fraud was committed and that the said 'rooting' was

 being done by the petitioner. It will be debatable as to whether the petitioner

 was an actual beneficiary of the amount being siphoned off from various

 companies or as to whether he was only getting his professional fee for the

 purpose of 'rooting'. In any case, since the petitioner has already been behind

 bars for the last about 4 months and challan already stands presented, further

 detention of the petitioner will not serve any useful purpose. The petition, as

 such, is accepted and the petitioner is ordered to be released on regular bail

 on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction of learned Trial

 Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned. 7. It is, however, clarified that none of the observation made above shall be

 taken to be an expression on merits of the main case.