% 27.02.2025 1. The present writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, 1950 read with Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,1 is
 directed against order dated 24th February, 2025 passed by the Duty Judicial
 Magistrate First Class, Shahdara, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi in the
 proceedings emanating from FIR No. 60/2024 under Sections 66C/66D of 1 " CrPC " This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:10
 the Information Technology Act, 2000 , read with Sections 120-B , 170 , 384 , 419 , 420 , 465 , 467 , and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 registered at
 Cyber Police Station, Kolkata on 17th June, 2024. Through the said order,
 the Magistrate declined the request made by the Petitioner/State of West
 Bengal for transit remand of Respondent No. 2, and instead, granted
 Respondent No. 2 interim/transit bail to enable him to approach the
 competent court for seeking appropriate relief in accordance with law. 2. On 25th February, 2025, this Court, after extensive arguments, issued
 an interim order staying the directions in the impugned order. At that stage,
 although counsel for Respondent No. 2 was granted an opportunity to
 conclude their arguments, however, they sought a short accommodation to
 file a reply. Accordingly, the matter was listed for today, i.e., the next
 working day, considering the urgency of the issue at hand. 3. Today, Respondent No. 2 is represented by Mr. Hariharan, Senior
 Counsel, assisted by Mr. Vivek Aggarwal, Advocate. They could not file
 their vakalatnama today, as Respondent No. 2 is in custody, however, they
 have assured the Court that the same will be filed at the earliest possible
 opportunity. 4. Nonetheless, Mr. Hariharan, on instructions, has stated that no reply
 to the petition is necessary, and instead, he would make oral submissions. 5. Accordingly, the Court has proceeded to hear the matter. Petitioner's Case 6. In addition to the facts noted in the previous order, Mr. Tanveer
 Ahmed Mir, Senior Counsel for Petitioner, has filed a note highlighting the
 role of Respondent No. 2 in the alleged offence, with copy to the other side. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:10
 A copy of the said note has been handed over across the board and is taken
 on record. The note delineates the following: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:10
 in Delhi, with one Onkar Singh operating as their frontman. It was as per
 their directions that Chirag Kapoor sent all the bank account toolkits,
 including SIM cards, registered mobile numbers, and login credentials, to
 Onkar Singh. 6.6 Prior to this, Onkar Singh was also apprehended and had given a
 disclosure statement. Certain recoveries were made from Onkar, and he
 revealed he was acting under the directions of Respondent No. 2 and Aditya
 Dua. 6.7 The residences of Respondent No. 2 and Aditya Dua were raided, but
 they refused to provide access. Respondent No. 2 was issued investigation
 notices, which he failed to comply with, while Aditya Dua fled to the UAE.
 6.8 Further investigation revealed 500 similar complaints lodged on the
 National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal, thereby supporting the
 complainant's allegations. 6.9 Subsequently, Respondent No. 2 was arrested, and recoveries were
 made. Upon his arrest, it was discovered that he was still operating his
 mobile number, although he had wiped the contents off WhatsApp.
 Nevertheless, the mobile number and mobile device seized from Respondent
 No. 2 matched the WhatsApp conversations with Onkar Singh, in which
 most of the directions were issued to Onkar Singh by Respondent No. 2 and
 Aditya Dua. These directions pertained to the management of bank
 accounts, registered mobile numbers, changes in mobile numbers, and the
 inflow and outflow of funds in the bank accounts. 7. Based on the foregoing facts and circumstances, Mr. Mir submits that
 the arrest of Respondent No. 2 was fully justified, and that his custody upon
 a transitory remand is crucial in light of the large-scale cyberspace scam W.P.(CRL) 673/2025 Page 4 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:11
 being operated by these individuals. He submits that is not a case that can be
 thoroughly investigated without the custodial interrogation of Yogesh Dua.
 Therefore, he contends that the observations made by the Duty Magistrate in
 the impugned order are totally perverse and contrary to the record, as this
 was certainly not a case where the transit remand should have been denied. Respondent No. 2's Case 8. Mr. Hariharan, Senior Counsel for Respondent No. 2, on the other
 hand, strongly opposes the Petitioner's request for transit remand. He
 submits that the impugned order is well-balanced and does not prejudice the
 Petitioner in any manner. He makes the following submissions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:11
 8.5 The purpose of granting bail to Respondent No. 2 was solely to allow
 him to exercise his legal remedies and preserve his personal liberties. The
 impugned order merely enables him to approach the concerned court in
 Kolkata to seek appropriate orders under CrPC . The bail is for a short
 duration and serves this limited purpose. 8.6 In any event, the impugned order also enables the Prosecution to
 investigate the matter, as the bail includes a condition for Respondent No. 2
 to join the investigation, as and when required. 8.7 If the Petitioner were dissatisfied with the bail, their remedy was to
 file a petition for cancellation of bail, and not the present petition. In this
 regard, the Magistrate was obligated to accept the bail bonds furnished by
 Respondent No. 2. Therefore, the Petitioner could not have circumvented the
 proper procedure for seeking bail cancellation through this petition.
 8.8 Alternatively, once the Magistrate concluded that the transit remand
 was not warranted, Respondent No. 2 should have been released
 immediately. Therefore, his continued custody following the impugned
 order, was illegal. Analysis 9. The Court has duly considered the aforementioned contentions.
 Indeed, Respondent No. 2 was granted bail, as per the impugned order, but
 was taken into custody due to his inability to present the requisite bonds/
 sureties. However, whilst he was in judicial custody, the present petition
 under Article 226 of the Constitution was filed, seeking the intervention of
 this Court to challenge the merits of the decision rendered by the Magistrate
 in the impugned order. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:11 10. Upon finding a strong prima facie case in favour of the Petitioner, as
 noted in the previous order, the Court issued interim directions as a result
 whereof he continued to remain in judicial custody. 11. As regards the relief sought in the main petition, the Petitioner's
 emphasis is on the merits of the decision in the impugned order, particularly
 the grounds of refusal of their request for transit remand, which also resulted
 in the grant of transitory bail to Respondent No. 2, thereby enabling him to
 seek appropriate relief from the concerned Court. 12. At the outset, it is essential to emphasize that the primary objective of
 transit remand is to facilitate transfer of a person in custody from the place
 of arrest to a place where the investigation and trial can proceed. There may,
 however, be instances where the police and investigating authorities fail to
 exercise appropriate restraint while operating within their legal remit. For
 this reason, when the accused is presented before the Magistrate with a
 request for transit remand by the investigating agency, the Magistrate must
 carefully consider the facts of the case and should not grant the remand in a
 mechanical or automatic manner. The Magistrate is obligated to ensure that
 there is sufficient material, such as entries in the case diary, that justifies the
 request for transit remand. The decision to remand an accused is inherently
 judicial in nature, and the Magistrate acts in a judicial capacity rather than
 an executive one when ordering the detention of the accused.2 13. In the instant case, the Magistrate, while declining the request of the
 Petitioner, made the following observations: 14. The Magistrate has remarked that the investigating agencies have
 failed to demonstrate as to why Respondent No. 2 should be transported to
 Kolkata or what specific aspect of the investigation in the present FIR
 necessitates his transfer. Additionally, the Magistrate has made a strong
 observation that no "cogent evidence" has been presented to justify the grant
 of transit remand to the investigating agencies. 15. While this Court is not sitting as a court of appeal over the
 Magistrate's decision, however, the case diary produced reveals that the
 impugned decision has not been made objectively. Contrary to the decision
 rendered by the Magistrate, a review of the case diary submitted by the
 Petitioner, coupled with the submissions made by Mr. Mir, reveals that there
 is prima facie evidence to implicate Respondent No. 2. The threshold of
 "cogent evidence" applied by the Magistrate in this regard, is untenable, as
 the decision to grant transit remand must be based on a prima facie analysis
 of the case diaries, rather than on the submission of cogent evidence by the
 investigating agencies. 16. At this juncture, it is important to emphasize that this Court is not
 delving deeply into the material, as any observations made at this stage
 could potentially prejudice one party or the other. This concern was also
 highlighted by Mr. Hariharan during the course of arguments, and the Court
 acknowledges his contention. Therefore, while refraining from a detailed
 analysis of the case facts, yet the Court is firmly of the view that the material
 presented does not support the observations made in the impugned order. It W.P.(CRL) 673/2025 Page 9 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:13
 cannot be concluded that the entire evidence against Respondent No. 2 is
 speculative or unfounded. The reasonable inference drawn by this Court
 from the facts outlined in the case diary suggests that there is sufficient basis
 for the Prosecution to seek a transit remand. The allegations levelled against
 Respondent No. 2 pertain to serious offenses related to financial frauds, and
 the investigation in the case is still ongoing. The case diary, placed before
 this Court, contains screenshots of messages exchanged between the
 WhatsApp accounts of Respondent No. 2 and Onkar Singh. Upon a prima
 facie examination, these messages appear to have been exchanged in a
 coded manner, raising concerns regarding their potential relevance to the
 alleged offence. In light of these facts and circumstances, this Court is
 inclined to grant the Petitioner's request for transitory remand. 17. At this juncture, Mr. Hariharan points out that since the material
 seized by the prosecuting agency is in digital form, the Court should issue
 appropriate directions to prevent any tampering with such material during
 transit. 18. In light of the aforesaid discussion, the present petition is allowed
 with the following directions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:14
 18.4 The concerned Court / Duty JMFC, SHD shall ensure that the digital/
 electronic material recovered from Respondent No. 2 is property sealed. 19. Needless to state that the observations made above are only for the
 purpose of deciding the present petition and the concerned Court shall
 examine the request made by either party for further directions, on its own
 merits, uninfluenced by any observations made above. 20. In view of the foregoing, the present petition is disposed of, along
 with the pending application. 21. Dasti under the signatures of Court Master. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 FEBRUARY 27, 2025
 d.negi W.P.(CRL) 673/2025 Page 11 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/02/2025 at 22:25:16