% 05.05.2025 1. The present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
 1950 read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,1 seeks
 quashing of FIR No. RC2202023E0001 dated 17th January, 2023, registered
 at Police Station EO-II, Delhi under Sections 420 and 406 of Indian Penal
 Code, 18602 and Section 7(C) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,3
 and all the proceeding emanating therefrom. The chargesheet in this case has
 been filed, wherein the Petitioners have been charged with offences under
 Section 420 read with Section 120B of the IPC. 2. The request for quashing of FIR is made in light of the settlement
 reached between the Petitioners and the Respondent Bank (Respondent No. 1 " Cr.P.C ." This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49 2), as evidenced by the One-Time Settlement4 Sanction dated 4th October,
 2023. Pertinently, the OTS involved a composite settlement for two
 borrower companies, namely Ritzy Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. and Meghaaarika
 Impex Pvt. Ltd., for a total settlement amount of INR 25.50 Crores. The
 Petitioners acted as guarantors for the financial facilities availed by both of
 these companies. A copy of the OTS has been duly placed on record. 3. Briefly stated, the factual background, leading to the filing of the
 present petition is as follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49
 was also classified as fraud on 04th May, 2022 by the bank. It was further
 alleged in the FIR that the borrower company, acting through its directors,
 committed acts amounting to fraud, cheating, criminal breach of trust,
 misappropriation, and diversion of funds. 4. The Petitioners submit that they have resolved their dispute with the
 Respondent Bank, culminating in a One Time Settlement dated 4 th October,
 2023. Under the terms of the OTS, the Bank agreed to settle the outstanding
 dues (of Ritzy Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. and Meghaaarika Impex Pvt. Ltd.) for a
 total amount of INR 25.50 Crores, payable in accordance with the schedule
 outlined in the settlement agreement. The Petitioners confirm that the entire
 amount under the OTS has been duly paid, and in acknowledgment thereof,
 the Bank has issued a No Dues Certificate/ Settlement Letter on 19th
 February, 2024. In view of this settlement, the Petitioners have approached
 this Court seeking quashing of the FIR. 5. Counsel for the Respondent Bank has confirmed the factum of
 settlement, and submitted that the Bank leaves it to the discretion of this
 Court to pass appropriate orders in the present petition, thereby indicating
 that it does not oppose the prayer for quashing. The objection, however,
 arises from the Investigating Agency, Respondent No. 1, the Central Bureau
 of Investigation.5 Counsel for the CBI has drawn the attention of this Court
 to Clause 12 of the OTS agreement, which reads as follows: 6. The CBI has, in fact, filed a detailed reply opposing the plea for
 quashing of the FIR, raising the following key contentions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49
 6.1. The fraud committed against the Respondent Bank constitutes an
 offence not merely against a financial institution, but against society at large.
 Therefore, the petition seeking quashing of the FIR ought not to be
 entertained in the larger public interest. This principle has been affirmed by
 the Supreme Court in the case of Anil Bhavarlal Jain & Anr. vs. State of
 Maharashtra ;6 State of Maharashtra vs. Vikram Anantrai Doshi & Ors. ;7
 and CBI vs. Maninder Singh . 8
 6.2. The Bank conducted a forensic audit of the borrower company's loan
 account, which revealed that the company, acting through its directors and
 guarantors (i.e., the Petitioners), had engaged in the diversion and round-
 tripping of borrowed funds through group companies and related parties.
 Such actions amount to serious offences including fraud, cheating,
 misappropriation of funds, diversion of loan proceeds, and criminal breach
 of trust. 6.3. While the Bank had alleged a total loss of INR 132.12 Crores, the
 settlement amount under the OTS is limited to INR 25.50 Crores, which is
 grossly inadequate, raises serious doubts about the genuineness of the
 settlement, and is contrary to the principles laid down by the Supreme Court
 in the aforementioned judgments. 7. The Court has considered the aforenoted contentions. The present
 petition concerns quashing of the FIR arising out of the claims made by the
 Respondent Bank against Ritzy Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. The prayer for quashing
 the FIR in respect of the other borrower company, Meghaaarika Impex Pvt.
 Ltd., has been decided by a separate order passed today in W.P.(CRL) 6 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3823. (2014) 15 SCC 29. (2016) 1 SCC 389. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49
 3125/2023. 8. At the outset, it must be noted that the Supreme Court, in a catena of
 judgments, has outlined several factors to be considered by the High Court
 when deciding the question of quashing criminal proceedings, particularly in
 the exercise of its extraordinary powers under Article 226 of the
 Constitution or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.9 These
 include the nature of the disputes between the parties, the terms of
 compromise and whether the continuance of such criminal proceedings
 would be a futile exercise. The Supreme Court has consistently reiterated
 that criminal cases which are predominantly civil in nature, particularly
 those arising out of civil, commercial, financial or mercantile transactions,
 may, warrant quashing, if the dispute has been amicably resolved.10 In such
 cases, the High Court may, in the exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., quash the criminal proceedings to prevent abuse
 of the process of law, if it is of the opinion that the likelihood of conviction
 is remote and bleak, and that the continuation of the proceedings would
 result in undue oppression and prejudice to the accused. 9. The Court duly acknowledges and appreciates the concerns raised by
 the CBI, who opposes this petition. The CBI has relied on judgments of the
 Supreme Court that underscore instances where the Court, after examining
 the specific facts and circumstances, has declined to quash the FIR and
 chargesheet. However, at the same time, there is also a substantial array of
 judgments wherein the Supreme Court has upheld the quashing of criminal
 proceedings, particularly where the dispute is predominantly civil in nature. Gian Singh v. State of Punjab , 2012(10) SCC 303. Parbatbhai Aahir @ Prabatbhai vs. The State of Gujarat , (2017) 9 SCC 641; Nikhil Merchant v. CBI ,
 (2008) 9 SCC 677. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49
 In essence, there is no rigid straight-jacket formula for allowing or denying
 the quashing of an FIR. The fundamental principle is that the exercise of
 inherent powers under Section 482 of the CrPC to quash an FIR must be
 governed by a careful evaluation of the peculiar facts and circumstances of
 each individual case. In other words, Court's discretion to grant such relief
 is primarily contingent upon the unique nature of the dispute and the specific
 facts and circumstances of each case. 10. At this juncture, it is apposite to refer to the judgement of the
 Supreme Court in Tarina Sen v. Union of India & Anr.,11 wherein, after
 considering a series of precedents concerning the quashing of FIRs, the
 Court made the following observations: 11. In the present case, the dispute between the borrower company and
 the Respondent Bank has been resolved through a mutually agreed
 compromise evidenced by the OTS, pursuant to which the Bank's dues have
 been cleared, and there are no remaining claims against the borrower
 company. In view of this settlement and the absence of any surviving
 grievance, the Court is required to examine whether the nature of the
 dispute, though involving criminal allegations, has overtones of a civil
 dispute. In this regard, it becomes crucial to note that the chargesheet against 11 MANU/SC/1083/2024. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49
 the Petitioners has been filed only under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC,
 which pertain to allegations of cheating and criminal conspiracy. Such
 allegations, particularly in the context of financial and commercial
 transactions, carry a predominantly civil character and, warrant
 consideration for quashing in view of the settlement between the parties. 12. While the CBI has argued that the settlement amount of INR 25.50
 Crores is grossly inadequate compared to the alleged defrauded amount of
 INR 132.12 Crores, it is pertinent to note that the Respondent Bank, as the
 custodian of public funds, has, in its discretion, deemed it appropriate to
 settle the financial dispute for a composite settlement amount of INR 25.50
 Crores. It is the Respondent Bank that made the commercial decision to
 resolve the matter with the Petitioners and issued a No Dues Certificate/
 Settlement Letter to that effect. Furthermore, although the Petitioners were
 accused of manipulating funds, engaging in round-tripping, and violating the
 terms of the financial facilities, the Bank opted to settle the dispute. In fact,
 the Respondent Bank explicitly stated in the No Dues Certificate/ Settlement
 Letter as follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49 13. Pertinently, in CBI, ACB, Mumbai Vs. Narendra Lal Jain,12 the
 Supreme Court held that when the liability to compensate for the monetary
 loss suffered by the Bank has been mutually settled between the parties, the
 continuation of criminal proceedings may become oppressive or, in effect,
 amount to a futile prosecution. In such circumstances, the Court should
 exercise its extraordinary powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash the
 proceedings. 14. In view of the foregoing legal principles, and taking into
 consideration the facts and circumstances of this case, the Court is satisfied
 that this is a fit case for exercise of powers under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India and Section 482 to Cr.P.C . to quash the FIR, as the
 continuation of criminal proceedings would serve no purpose and would be
 a futile exercise. 15. Accordingly, FIR No. RC2202023E0001, registered at Police Station
 EO-II, Delhi, and all the consequent proceeding emanating therefrom are
 quashed. As the FIR itself has been quashed, the Look Out Circular issued
 against the Petitioners in relation to the subject FIR also stands quashed. 16. The petition is disposed of. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 MAY 5, 2025/ab 12 (2014) 5 SCC 364. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/06/2025 at 18:12:49