th
 9 February, 2024

SASHIKANTA MISHRA, J. Both these applications seeking pre-arrest bail

 arise out of the same case and involve identical facts for

 which both were heard together and are being disposed of by

 this common judgment. 2. The petitioners are apprehending their arrest in

 connection with EOW Bhubaneswar P.S. Case No. 19 of 2023

 corresponding to C.T. Case No. 5 of 2023 pending in the

 Court of learned Special Judge, OPID Court, Cuttack for the

 alleged commission of offence under Sections

 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of IPC read with Sections

 66(C) / 66(D) of IT Act and Section 6 of OPID Act, 2011. 3. The prosecution case is that one Sasmita Sahoo

 being the Inspector of Police, EOW CID-CB, Bhubaneswar

 lodged a written complaint before the Khordha EOW,

 Bhubaneswar on 13.06.2023 stating therein that in course of

 investigation into an allegation of online financial fraud in

 relation to a website called www.smsmvip.com, she found

 that several companies were involved in cheating and Page 2 of 15 misappropriating public money by inducing customers to

invest in their companies with assurance of higher returns.

One Bijay Kumar Nath of Puri had submitted a written report

on 25.04.2023 that being thus lured, he had invested some

money in the aforementioned website and initially got some

return but subsequently he suspected that some fraud had

been committed. On further investigation, huge amounts of

money were found to have been transacted by several

companies through gaming apps on mobile phones. It was

thus found that the creator of the website and developer of

the application and the Directors, proprietors of the

companies/firms named in the complaint, had committed

serious financial fraud. The present petitioners have not been

named in the FIR. Their apprehension of being arrested

stems from the fact that in course of investigation, one S.

Chitravel, an employee of Byrontec Solutions Pvt. Ltd. was

arrested. He was a colleague of petitioner-Sanjeev

Govindaswamy. Moreover, the bank accounts of Sanjeev

Govindaswamy held in IDFC Bank and IDBI Bank were

frozen. The other petitioner- Sathy Govindaswamy Page 3 of 15 apprehends arrest as he was a Director of Byrontec Solutions

Pvt. Ltd. 4. Heard Mr. S. Palit, learned Senior Counsel with Mr.

S.S. Pattanaik, learned counsel for the petitioner-Sanjeev

Govindaswamy; Mr. D. Panda, learned counsel for the

petitioner-Sathy Govindaswamy and Mr. B. Bhuyan, learned

counsel appearing for the State in OPID matters. 5. Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. S. Palit would argue

that the offence under Section 6 of the OPID Act is not made

out inasmuch as the ingredients necessary to constitute such

offence are nonexistent. Mr. Palit has referred to Section 6 of

the OPID Act to submit that unless money has been

deposited either in lump sum or by installments with the

financial establishment it would not partake the nature of

'deposit' as defined under Section 2(b) of the OPID Act. There

is absolutely no evidence in the present case to show that

either the initial complainant, Bijay Kumar Nath or any of

the so called complainants had ever made any such deposit

with any financial establishment much less with the

petitioners. According to Mr. Palit therefore, the very basis of

the case is misconceived and therefore, untenable. As regards Page 4 of 15 the offences under the Indian Penal Code alleged against the

petitioner, Mr. Palit would argue that even assuming the

prosecution allegations to be correct on their face value, then

also it is clearly borne out from the materials on record that

investment by a person in a gaming app cannot be construed

as deposit within the meaning of Section 2(b) of the OPID Act,

since the participant is required to exercise skill while playing

the game and winning is a precondition for getting returns.

Mr. Palit has relied upon the judgment of this court in the

case of Gajanan Property Dealer and Construction Pvt.

Ltd. v. State of Orissa, 2018 SCC OnLine Ori 387 and the

decision of the Madras High Court in D. Siluvai Venance v.

State , 2020 SCC OnLine Mad 1546 to argue that online

gaming apps like Rummy, Teen Pati, Poker etc. are games of

skill and chance where there is neither any assurance nor

commitment of returns on the investment made by a player.

Mr. Palit further argues that even otherwise the complainant,

Bijay Kumar Nath has not invested in any app owned by

Byrontec Solutions Pvt. Ltd. to which the petitioners are

connected. The investigation has so far not shown any link

whatsoever with the petitioners and other accused persons Page 5 of 15 named in the FIR. There is simply no proof of any money

having found its way to the personal accounts of the

petitioners being siphoned by them. Merely because some

amount is credited or transacted through the bank accounts

does not, per se, make it illegal. 6. Mr. D. Panda while supporting the arguments made

by Mr. Palit as noted above additionally contends that the so

called confession made by the co-accused, S. Chitravel has

no legal sanctity in view of the bar under Sections 24 to 27 of

the Indian Evidence Act read with Section 161(2) of Cr.P.C.

Mr. Panda further argues that pursuant to the direction of

this Court, the petitioners made themselves available for

interrogation by the I.O. on 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th and 31st of

December, 2023 but the I.O. was herself unavailable and

asked them to appear before here only on 29th December,

2023 on which date they appeared and answered all

questions put to them by her save and except those of which

they had no knowledge and those, the answers to which

would have incriminated them. Mr. Panda has relied upon

the celebrated judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Nandini Satpathy v. P.L. Dani , (1978) 2 SCC 424 in this Page 6 of 15 regard. Mr. Panda sums up his arguments by contending

that the petitioners having rendered necessary cooperation

with the investigation and charge sheet having already been

submitted, their liberty cannot be curbed on the ruse of

further custodial interrogation. 7. Mr. Bhuyan, learned State Counsel has vehemently

opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail. He would argue that

investigation has clearly revealed the involvement of a

Chinese national, Ethan @ Wang Guanhua and his

collaboration with both the petitioners. In fact, petitioner-

Sanjeev Govindaswamy had become one of the Directors of

Bettec Technologies Private Ltd. owned by said Chinese

national, wherein co-accused S. Chitravel was the authorized

signatory. The company was closed due to Covid pandemic

situation whereupon Ethan @ Wang Guanhua opened a new

company in March/April, 2021 named, Byrontec Solutions

Pvt. Ltd., which dealt with online gaming apps, like Rummy

etc. Sanjeev Govindaswamy became the Director and

subsequently, his brother Sathy Govindaswamy also became

a Director in the said company, while co-accused, S.

Chitravel became the authorized signatory of the accounts. Page 7 of 15 Ethan @ Wang Guanhua thereafter opened several such

companies and collected huge amounts of money from the

public solely with the intention of duping them. The modus

operandi of the culprits is, use of multiple layers of mule

bank accounts at lower levels, followed by current bank

accounts of the shell companies/hired firms and finally, use

of some dubious export-import firms and crypto traders to

siphon money out of India. Mr. Bhuyan adds that it is a huge

financial scam with the possibility of a complicated and large

money trail being involved. Since investigation is at nascent

stage, the petitioners should not be granted liberty. Mr.

Bhuyan further contends that economic offences have to be

viewed differently and anticipatory bail should not be allowed

in such cases. He relies on the decision of the Supreme Court

in the case of P. Chidambaram vs. Directorate of

Enforcement , reported on (2019) 9 SCC 24. 8. Having heard the rival submissions at length and

having perused the materials on record, this Court would at

the outset like to keep in perspective the principles governing

exercise of power under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. in considering

the prayer of the petitioners for grant of pre-arrest bail. For Page 8 of 15 immediate reference, sub-Section(1) of Section 438 of Cr.P.C.,

which is relevant, is quoted hereunder. 9. Coming to the facts of the case, this Court finds that

investigation appears to have been set into motion upon a Page 9 of 15 complaint lodged by one Bijay Kumar Nath of Puri district,

wherein he alleged that being lured by a particular website he

initially deposited Rs.150/- followed by Rs.1,000/- and again

followed by Rs.1,000/-. He also downloaded two other

gaming apps and invested a sum of Rs.900/- on three

occasions. Except for Rs.150/-, which was initially credited

to his account, the so called promised returns on further

amounts deposited by him did not come to his account for

which he suspected commission of some kind of financial

fraud. While investigating into his complaint, the I.O. found

that the amount of Rs.150/- credited to the account of Sri

Nath was from a company named, Redeem & Honour Pvt.

Ltd. Scrutiny of the account of the company revealed that the

total transactions therein amounted to Rs.2,01,80,006.16.

Further, the amount of Rs.1000/- deposited by Sri Nath was

found to have landed in an account belonging to one

Muhammad Ahsan N in the South Indian bank. In the said

account also a sum of Rs.14,88,604.00 was found to have

been transacted within a short time. Further investigation

led to evidence of transactions with several other companies

including Bettec and Byrontec Solutions Pvt. Ltd.. As such, Page 10 of 15 there is no clear cut material to show any link between the

amount invested by Bijay Kumar Nath directly or indirectly

with the petitioners either through the companies in which

they were involved or to their personal accounts. It has been

argued at length on behalf of the State that huge amount of

money running into crores was transacted fraudulently by

several companies including the companies of which the

petitioners were Directors. But then in the absence of a

proximal nexus showing that a definite fraud was committed

at the expense of any person much less the original

complainant, Bijay Kumar Nath, it becomes difficult to

impute any criminality to the petitioners. Merely because the

companies in question had transacted substantial amounts

of money, per se, does not make them illegal entities or label

such transactions as fraudulent or illegal. Unless the

prosecution comes up with a definite case to show that the

petitioners, acting either on other own or through the

companies in question had committed any specific act to

defraud any person, their complicity as projected by the

prosecution would remain in the realm of suspicion only. Page 11 of 15 10. It goes without saying that liberty as guaranteed

under Article 21 of the Constitution of India being one of the

cherished objects of our Constitutional ideals, cannot be

curbed on mere suspicion. This Court however, would hasten

to add that an order protecting liberty of a person does not

take away the right of the investigating agency to investigate

into the case, as was held by the Supreme Court in the

celebrated Constitution Bench judgment rendered in the case

of Shri Gurubaksh Singh Sibbia vs. State of Punjab , 1980

(2) SCC 565. 11. As to the grounds raised by learned State Counsel

that pre-arrest bail should not be granted in cases involving

economic offences, this Court feels persuaded to rely upon

the observations of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme

Court in its judgment rendered in the case of Sushila

Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and another ,

(2020) 5 SCC 1 that power under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. can

be exercised to grant pre-arrest bail in respect of all offences

unless there is statutory bar or restriction in respect of the

offences concerned. It is relevant to note that there is no Page 12 of 15 such bar in the OPID Act and/or in respect of the alleged

offences under the IPC . 12. It is further seen that charge sheet has been

submitted in this case though investigation has been kept

open in terms of Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. Under such

circumstances, it cannot by any stretch of imagination be

said that investigation is at a nascent stage as substantial

progress appears to have been made by the investigating

agency in the form of examination of witnesses,

collection/seizure of documents, freezing of bank accounts

etc. As regards the necessity of custodial interrogation, this

Court finds that in obedience to the direction of this Court,

the petitioners had appeared before the I.O. on 29th of

December, 2023 and spent a considerable period of time for

such purpose (11a.m. to 6 p.m.). It has been alleged that

such appearance was a sham as they remained silent to most

of the questions put to them. It has been submitted in

response that the petitioners refused to answer only those

questions, the answers to which they did not know and

secondly, the answers to those, which would have been self-

incriminating in nature. There is no gainsaying that the right Page 13 of 15 against self-incrimination is a fundamental right recognized

by the Constitution in the form of Article 20(3) of the

Constitution and Section 161 (2) of Cr.P.C. and has to be

respected at all costs as held in Nandini Satpathy (supra).

The exact questions put to the petitioners have not been

informed to the Court for which this Court is unable to form

any opinion as to if the petitioners were justified in refusing

to answer questions citing protection of Article 20(3). It would

however, suffice to note that the petitioners had appeared

and spent considerable time with the I.O. Only because they

may be required to be interrogated or examined further does

not necessarily mean that their liberty should be curbed. It

cannot be held as an inviolable rule that interrogation in

such cases must always be custodial in nature. 13. From what has been discussed hereinbefore, it is

clear that the prosecution has not been prima facie, able to

show a definite link with the alleged occurrence of financial

fraud and the petitioners. Under such circumstances, the

question whether the offence under the OPID Act is made out

against them or not need not be gone into in the present

case. Page 14 of 15 14. For the foregoing reasons therefore, this Court is

inclined to allow the prayer of the petitioners for grant of pre-

arrest bail. The anticipatory bail applications are disposed of

with the direction that in the event of arrest, the petitioners

shall be released by the arresting officer on such terms and

conditions as he may deem fit and proper to impose

including the following conditions; investigation, failing which it shall be open to

 the prosecution to seek cancellation of this

 order. (ii) They shall surrender their upassports, if any, in

 the Court having seisin over the matter within a

 period of two weeks from the date of receipt of

 certified copy of this order. ................................. Sashikanta Mishra,
 Judge
Orissa High Court, Cuttack. The 9th February, 2024/ A.K. Rana, P.A. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: AJAYA KUMAR RANA Designation: PERSONAL ASSISTANT Reason: Authentication Page 15 of 15 Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack
Date: 12-Feb-2024 13:23:38