1. The Information in Case No. 07 of 2020 was filed on 21.02.2020, under Section
 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (the 'Act') by XYZ (the 'Informant')
 against Alphabet Inc., Google LLC, Google Ireland Limited ('Google Ireland'),
 Google India Private Limited ('Google India') and Google India Digital Services
 Private Limited ('Google Digital Services') alleging contravention of various
 provisions of Section 4 of the Act. The opposite parties are hereinafter collectively
 referred to as 'Google/ Opposite Parties'. 2. The Information in Case No. 14 of 2021 was filed by Match Group, Inc. ('Match
 Group') under Section 19(1)(a) of the Act against the Opposite Parties alleging
 contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act. It was stated in the
 Information that Match Group, through a portfolio of companies it owns, is
 engaged in the provision of dating / companionship products, available in over 40
 languages to users in more than 190 countries, through apps and websites. Match
 Group is also stated to have one indirect, wholly owned subsidiary in India,
 MTCH India Services Private Limited ('Match India'). Match Group's brands
 stated to be operating in India are Tinder, Hinge, OkCupid, and Ablo. 3. The Information in Case No. 35 of 2021 was filed by Alliance of Digital India
 Foundation ('ADIF') under Section 19(1)(a) of the Act against the Opposite
 Parties alleging contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act. The
 Informant is stated to be an alliance of individuals which aims at improving the
 start-up ecosystem in India and actively helps in identifying and dealing with the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 3 Public Version

 issues concerning the growth and functioning of start-ups in India. It was further
 stated in the Information that ADIF as a body represents the interests of various
 stakeholders such as start-ups, app developers, etc. and espouses the objective of
 improving the start-up ecosystem of the country. About the OPs 4. Alphabet Inc. is a multinational technology conglomerate holding company. It
 was created through a restructuring of Google on 02.10.2015 and became the
 parent company of Google and several former Google subsidiaries. Google LLC
 is a Delaware (USA) limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of
 Alphabet Inc. It has been submitted by the Opposite Parties that Google's core
 products and services including Google Play and Android OS are developed,
 provided, and administered by Google LLC. In addition, all policies relevant to
 the Google products are framed, developed, and enforced by Google LLC. It has
 been further submitted that Google's core products and platforms include Chrome,
 Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Play, Android, Search, and YouTube. 5. Google Ireland Limited is a legal entity formed under the laws of Ireland. It has
 been submitted by the Opposite Parties that Google Ireland generates its revenue
 primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective, online advertising on Google
 properties and Google Network Members' properties. It is also stated to be
 responsible for providing most of Google's consumer services to users in the
 European Economic Area and Switzerland with effect from 22.0l.20l9. 6. Google India Private Limited ("Google India") is a company incorporated in the
 year 2003 under the Companies Act . It has been submitted by the Opposite Parties
 that since 01.04.2016, Google India has been appointed by Google Asia Pacific
 Pte Ltd, Singapore ("Google Singapore") as a non-exclusive authorised reseller
 of online advertisement space in India provided by Google Asia Pacific Pte Ltd
 through Google Ads program to advertisers in India (prior to that time it was the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 4 Public Version

 non-exclusive reseller of online advertising space appointed by Google Ireland
 Limited). Google India also acts as a non-exclusive reseller of standardized
 Google enterprise products (currently known as Google Workspace), to customers
 in India. In addition, it also provides a limited set of Information Technology
 Services ("IT services"), and Information Technology Enabled Services ("ITES")
 to other overseas group companies. 7. Google India Digital Services Private Limited ("Google Digital") is incorporated
 as a private limited company under the Companies Act . It has been submitted by
 the Opposite Parties Google Digital undertakes the commercial operation of the
 "Google Pay" (formerly known as "Tez") application in India. Facts as stated in the Information in Case No. 07 of 2020 8. The Informant averred that Google's business model is based on interaction
 between, the online products and services it offers free of charge to users on one
 hand and, on the other, its online advertising services, from which it derives
 majority of its revenues. The Informant further averred that other than Android
 and Google Search, Google's core products include, a web browser (Google
 Chrome), an online video streaming service (YouTube), a web-based e-mail
 service (Gmail), an online mapping, navigation and geolocation service (Google
 Maps), an app store (Play Store), etc. These services are part of Google Mobile
 Services (GMS) i.e., the bundle of Google apps and services that Google licenses
 to smartphone manufacturers/Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). 9. The Informant further stated that in addition to the core products of Google, on
 18.09.2017, Google launched a Unified Payment Interface (UPI) based payment
 app called Tez in India, which was rebranded as Google Pay on 28.08.2018 in
 order to unify Google's payment offerings globally under the 'Google Pay' brand. Public Version 10. The Informant gave a detailed background of the Android ecosystem w.r.t. smart
 mobile devices highlighting the importance of Play Store in the overall Android
 architecture. The Informant alleged that Google, through its control over the Play
 Store and Android Operating System (OS), is favouring Google Pay over other
 competing apps, to the disadvantage of both i.e. apps facilitating payment through
 UPI, as well as users. As per the Informant, this amounts to abuse of its dominant
 position by Google in violation of various provisions of Section 4 of the Act. 11. For the purpose the present matter, the Informant submitted that the following
 relevant markets should be considered: 12. In relation to market for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices, the
 Informant submitted that from a demand-side perspective, basic and feature phone
 OS cannot be installed on smart mobile devices because of their extremely
 reduced functionalities. Further, even from a supply-side perspective, the
 differences in functionalities mean that the development of a smart mobile OS
 requires significant time and resources, regardless of whether the OS developer
 in question has already developed a basic and feature phone OS. The Informant
 also averred that there is no substitutability between mobile OS for smart mobile
 devices and desktop/computer OS. Further, from the perspective of the OEM, a
 non-licensable mobile OS made by a vertically integrated developer for its own
 products, is not a substitute for a licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices.
 Therefore, non-licensable mobile OS are not part of the same market as that of
 licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices. The Informant also placed
 reliance on decision of the European Commission (EC)1 wherein the EC 1 European Commission (EC) decision in Case AT 40099 - Google Android (EC Android Decision) Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 6 Public Version

 recognised that the markets for smart mobile OS and basic and feature phone OS,
 are separate markets. The Informant has also placed reliance on the order of the
 Commission dated 16.04.2019 passed under Section 26(1) of the Act in Re: Umar
 Javeed & Othrs AND Google LLC & Othrs bearing Case No. 39 of 2018 (Google
 Android Order) for this market. 13. In relation to market for app stores for Android OS, the Informant submitted that
 app stores are digital distribution platforms that are dedicated to enabling smart
 mobile device users to download, install and manage a wide range of diverse apps
 from a single point in the interface of the smartphone. The Informant inter alia
 averred that sideloading and web apps (offered through browser) are not a
 substitute for apps offered through app stores and app stores form a separate
 platform for smart mobile device users to access apps as well as for app providers
 to reach an audience with their content or services. Further, there is no
 substitutability between app stores of other licensable and non-licensable mobile
 OS for smart mobile devices and Android App Stores. The Informant also placed
 reliance on EC Android Decision as well as Google Android Order of the
 Commission, for the same. Accordingly, the Informant averred that another
 relevant market in the present case should be the market for app stores for the
 Android mobile OS. 14. In relation to market for apps facilitating payment through UPI, the Informant
 submitted that users could conduct digital payment transactions from a variety of
 channels viz. internet banking, credit/debit cards, wallets, UPI enabled apps, etc.
 However, market for apps facilitating payments through UPI is separate from
 markets for all other modes of digital payment solutions like cards, wallets,
 internet banking, etc. For the said purpose, the Informant brought forward distinct
 features offered by apps facilitating payments through UPI as compared to the
 other modes of digital payment solutions. The Informant claimed that UPI based
 digital payment apps are more convenient, secured, economical, etc. over other Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 7 Public Version

 digital payment solutions. Based on such distinct features, the Informant averred
 that the market for apps facilitating payment through UPI is a separate relevant
 market as users do not regard apps facilitating payment through UPI as
 interchangeable or substitutable with other modes of digital payment. 15. In relation to relevant geographic market, the Informant submitted that the
 relevant geographic market for the markets mentioned above is national in scope
 and the same is evident from Google's own internal structuring, which created a
 separate entity to run India operations. The Informant also placed reliance on
 Google Android Order of the Commission for the same. The Informant also stated
 that even if the worldwide markets for licensable OS for smart mobile devices and
 app stores for Android are considered as the relevant geographic markets, there
 would be an insignificant to no change in the assessment of dominance of Google
 and therefore, detailed analysis of market definition is not necessary. 16. The Informant also averred that Google enjoys a dominant position in the relevant
 market(s) for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices in India, and the
 market for app stores for Android mobile OS in India. It was also averred that
 Google enjoys a position of strength in both of these markets which enables it to
 operate independently of competitive forces and to affect its competitors/
 consumers as well as these markets in its favour. 17. The Informant inter alia alleged that Google is abusing its dominant position in
 the markets for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices and app stores for
 Android OS by (a) mandating apps to use Play Store's payment system and
 Google Play In-App Billing for charging their users for purchase of apps on Play
 Store and In-App purchases (which privileges Google Pay over other apps
 facilitating payment through UPI and mobile wallets), if they want to be listed on
 the Play Store; (b) unfairly privileging Google Pay inter-alia by pre-installing and
 prominently placing Google Pay on Android smartphones at the time of initial set- Public Version

 up resulting in a "status-quo bias" to the detriment of other apps facilitating
 payments through UPI as well as other methods of payment; etc.

 Directions to the Director General (DG) 18. Based on the material available on record, the Commission, vide its order dated
 09.11.2020, formed a prima facie view that the Opposite Parties have contravened
 various provisions of Section 4 of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission directed
 the DG to cause an investigation to be made into the matter under the provisions
 of Section 26(1) of the Act. 19. Subsequently, the Commission received another Information bearing Case No. 14
 of 2021 against the Opposite Parties. The Commission considered the said
 Information in its ordinary meeting held on 13.07.2021 and noted that the subject
 matter of the allegations made in the instant Information was substantially same
 to Case No. 07 of 2020, which was under examination before the DG.
 Accordingly, in terms of proviso to Section 26(1) of the Act, the Commission,
 vide its order dated 13.07.2021, decided to club this case with Case No. 07 of
 2020. Resultantly, the DG was directed to investigate this case also along with
 Case No. 07 of 2020 and submit a consolidated investigation report in the matter. 20. Thereafter, the Commission received another Information bearing Case No. 35 of
 2021 against the Opposite Parties. The Commission considered the said
 Information in its ordinary meeting held on 02.11.2021 and noted that the subject
 matter of the allegations made in the instant Information also was substantially
 the same with the subject matter under examination before the DG in an ongoing
 investigation in Case No. 07 of 2020 and Case No. 14 of 2021. Accordingly, in
 terms of proviso to Section 26(1) of the Act, the Commission, vide its order dated
 02.11.2021, decided to club this case with Case Nos. 07 of 2020 and 14 of 2021.
 Resultantly, the DG was directed to investigate this case also along with Case No. Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 9 Public Version

 07 of 2020 (and Case No. 14 of 2021) and submit a consolidated investigation
 report in the matter. 21. Accordingly, the DG submitted confidential as well as non-confidential versions
 of its consolidated Investigation Report on 16.03.2022. Investigation by the DG 22. The investigation involved detailed information collection from the Informants,
 OPs and the third parties. Further, the Investigation also collected information/
 data/ market reports, which were available online, the same are referred/ annexed
 in the Investigation Report at appropriate places. 23. It is also noted that apart from the Opposite Parties, during the investigation the
 DG identified certain other parties which were concerned with the products of
 Google (like Google Play Store and Google Play Billing System) within the scope
 of the present investigation. These other parties related to Google are (a) Google
 Asia Pacific Pte Ltd., Singapore ("Google Singapore") which is responsible for

 ; and (b) Google Payments India Private Ltd ("GPIN") which
 is incorporated in India and responsible for 24. Based on the analysis of various factors mentioned in the Act, following relevant
 markets were delineated by the DG: Moreover, the DG found that Google is following discriminatory practices by not
 using GPBS for its own applications i.e., YouTube. Therefore, Google imposes
 unfair and discriminatory conditions in violation of the provisions of Section
 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. 27. The DG also found that service fee charged by Google is unfair and discriminatory
 as: 28. The DG also found that Google's restrictions for mandatorily using GPBS would
 have significant negative effect on the improvements and innovative solutions that
 third party payment processors / aggregators are able to bring to the market.
 Further, mandatory imposition of GPBS also discourages app developers from
 developing its own in-app payment processor. As per the DG, the same
 tantamount to limiting technical development in the market for in-app payment
 processing services in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(ii) of the Act. 29. Further, as per the DG, Google's Payments Policy requiring mandatory and
 exclusive use of GPBS denies the payment aggregators/ payment gateways access
 to the market for processing of payments and allied services availed by App
 developers who sell in-app contents. Thus, Google was found to be following the
 practices that results in denial of market access for payment aggregators in
 violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. Further, by forcing app
 developers to exclusively use GPBS, Google was found to be leveraging its
 dominance in market for licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android OS, to
 protect its position in the market for Android in-app payment processing in
 violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 30. The DG further concluded that Google has excluded other UPI apps as effective
 payment option on the Google play Store. As per the DG, Google follows a
 discriminatory approach towards other UPI apps, while making payment on
 Google play Store. Google Payments Platform enabled the intent flow with the
 Google Pay UPI App, whereas other UPIs were integrated with more cumbersome
 collect flow method for payment on Google Play. Therefore, Google was found
 to be imposing unfair and discriminatory conditions in violation of the provisions
 of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. Public Version 31. The DG also noted that Google's conduct is also resulting in denial of market
 access to competing UPI apps since the market for UPI enabled digital payment
 apps is multi-sided, and the network effects will lead to a situation where Google
 Pay's competitors will be completely excluded from the market in the long run.
 As per the DG, such conduct amounts to violation of the provisions of Section
 4(2)(c) of the Act. Further, being the gateway to Android smartphones due to
 dominance in the markets for licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android
 OS, Google was found to be uniquely placed to (and is) leveraging its dominance
 in favour of Google Pay UPI App in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 32. The DG also observed that Google Pay UPI app is preinstalled in around of
 mobiles sold in India in the year 2020. However, the facility of preinstalling their
 apps is also available to other competing UPI apps viz. PhonePe, Paytm, Amazon
 Pay, etc. As such, no exclusivity was observed by the DG in the agreements
 entered into by Google with Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) so far as
 pre installation of competing UPI apps is concerned. Thus, Investigation has not
 find sufficient evidence to indicate that Google has abused its dominant position
 so far as the issue pertaining to preinstallation of Google Pay UPI App is
 concerned. Consideration of the Investigation Report by the Commission 33. The Commission considered the Investigation Report(s) in its ordinary meeting
 held on 16.03.2022 and directed to forward an electronic copy of the non-
 confidential version of the Investigation Report to the parties i.e., the Informant(s)
 and Google, for filing their respective objections/ suggestions thereto, if any. The
 parties were also directed to mutually exchange copies of their respective
 objections/ suggestions in advance, before filing the same with the Commission. Public Version 34. The Commission received an application dated 24.03.2022 from the learned
 counsel representing the Informant in Case No. 07 of 2020. Vide the said
 application, the learned counsel intimated about the demise of the said Informant,
 which was stated to have taken place on 23.04.2021 on account of complications
 arising from COVID-19. It was further averred in the application that the spouse
 of the Informant wishes to pursue the captioned case as legal representative.
 Accordingly, it was requested that the spouse of the Informant be taken as the
 Confidential Informant on record in the captioned matter on account of the demise
 of the Informant. The Commission considered the said application in its meeting
 held on 04.04.2022 and for the reasons detailed therein, rejected the same. The
 Commission also ordered that no further communication shall be made with the
 Informant in Case No. 07 of 2020. 35. Further, the Commission, vide its order dated 18.04.2022, directed setting up of a
 Confidentiality Ring to grant access to the confidential case records, as prayed for
 by Google, subject to the stipulations made therein. Pursuant to setting up of the
 Confidentiality Ring, the Commission, vide its order dated 14.06.2022, inter alia
 directed to forward electronic copy of the confidential version of the Investigation
 Report to Google through one of its Confidentiality Ring Member (CRM), with
 the stipulation that the access thereto shall be limited only to the CRMs of Google,
 subject to the observations and directions of the Commission as contained in the
 order setting up Confidentiality Ring and subsequent orders as well as the
 observations detailed in the said Order. 36. Google was also given liberty to make its submissions on the quantum of penalty
 which may be levied by the Commission in the event Google is to be held in
 contravention of the provisions of the Act, during the oral hearing as also in the
 written objections. Public Version 37. The respective objections/ suggestions of the parties to the Investigation Report,
 have since been received and taken on record. 38. Subsequently, the matter was listed for final hearing 02.08.2022, 24.08.2022,
 25.08.2022 and 26.08.2022, through video conference. The learned senior
 counsel(s) appearing on behalf of Google as well as the Informant(s) in Case Nos.
 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 made their respective arguments and concluded the
 same. After conclusion of hearing, the Commission invited the learned senior
 counsel of Google to make arguments on the quantum of penalty which may be
 levied by the Commission in the event Google is to be held in contravention of
 the provisions of the Act. The learned senior counsel sought leave of the
 Commission to make written submissions on this aspect. The Commission
 allowed Google to make written submissions on this aspect, as prayed for, and
 granted time till 10.09.2022 to make the same. Further, as prayed, the parties were
 also allowed to file brief synopsis of their oral arguments, by 10.09.2022, if so
 desired. In view of the above, the Commission also decided to pass an appropriate
 order in due course. 39. Thereafter, all the parties filed a synopsis of their oral arguments with the
 Commission. In addition, Google also filed written submissions on quantum of
 penalty in the event it is found to be in contravention of the provisions of the Act,
 on 12.09.2022. The same has been taken on record. Replies/objections/suggestions by the Parties 40. The Informants in Case Nos. 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021, in their respective replies
 to the Investigation Report, concurs with the conclusions and findings of the DG. 41. Google filed its reply filed on 01.08.2022, which was refiled on 02.09.2022 after
 complying with the requirements laid down in the Competition Commission of Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 15 Public Version

 India (General) Regulations, 2009 and Practice Direction issued in this regard.
 Google in its reply has contested the findings of the DG. The averments made by
 Google as well as the Informant(s) would be referred to in this order and dealt
 with while analysing the matter on merit. Analysis and findings of the Commission

 Relevant Market and Assessment of Dominance 42. In terms of Section 2(r) of the Act, relevant market is defined as "the market which
 may be determined by the commission with reference to the relevant product
 market or the relevant geographic market or with reference to both the markets." 43. Further, Section 2(t) of the Act defines 'relevant product market' as "a market
 comprising all those products or services which are regarded as interchangeable
 or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of characteristics of the products or
 services, their prices and intended use." Moreover, Section l9(7) of the Act
 provides a list of factors to be considered by the Commission for determination
 of the relevant product market, which includes physical characteristics or end use
 of the goods, price of goods or services, consumer preferences, etc. 44. A relevant geographic market has been defined under Section 2(s) of the Act as
 "a market comprising the area in which the conditions of competition for supply
 of goods or provision of services or demand of goods or services are distinctly
 homogenous and can be distinguished from the conditions prevailing in the
 neighbouring areas". In this regard, Section l9(6) of the Act lists various factors
 which may be given due regard to by the Commission while determining the
 relevant geographic market viz. regulatory trade barriers, local specification
 requirements, language, transport costs, consumer preferences, etc. Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 16 Public Version 45. As observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in in Civil Appeal No. 6691
 of 2014 in the case of Competition Commission of India v. Co-ordination
 Committee of Artists and Technicians of WB. Film and Television and Ors. , market
 definition is a tool to identify and define the boundaries of competition between
 firms. It serves to establish the framework within which competition policy is
 applied by the Commission. The main purpose of market definition is to identify
 in a systematic way the competitive constraints that the undertakings involved
 face. Further, the objective of defining a market in both its product and geographic
 dimension is to identify those actual competitors of the undertakings involved that
 can constrain those undertakings behaviour and of preventing them from behaving
 independently of effective competitive pressure. 46. After delineation of the relevant market(s), the next step for assessing the alleged
 abuse of dominant position in terms of Section 4 of the Act, is to examine whether
 the concerned entity holds dominant position in the relevant market(s), so
 identified. The explanation to Section 4 of the Act provides that "dominant
 position" means a position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant
 market, which enables it to operate independently of competitive forces prevailing
 in the relevant market; or affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant
 market in its favor. Further, Section 19(4) of the Act lists out various factors which
 are be considered while determining, whether an enterprise enjoys a dominant
 position for the purposes of Section 4 of the Act 47. Based on its assessment of abovementioned statutory scheme, the DG in its
 investigation Report has delineated three relevant markets i.e.,

 a.) Market for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices in India,
 b.) Market for app stores for android OS in India, and
 c.) Market for apps facilitating payments through UPI in India. Public Version 48. The DG has also found Google to be dominant in the first two relevant markets
 i.e., market for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices in India and market
 for app stores for android OS in India. 49. The reasoning and findings of the DG, the submissions of the parties and the
 analysis of the Commission, in this regard, is given in succeeding paragraphs. A. Market for licensable OS for smart mobile devices in India 50. The Commission notes that Operating Systems (OSs) are complex software
 products that control the basic functions of the device on which it is installed and
 enable the users to make use of such device. Accordingly, smart mobile OS are
 designed to support the functioning of smart mobile devices and other compatible
 software applications (apps). It enables the user to make use of such mobile device
 and run application software on it. Mobile OS is a crucial part of any smart mobile
 device. Moreover, smart mobile OSs typically provide a graphical user interface
 ('GUI'), application programming interfaces ('APIs'), and other ancillary
 functions. These are required for the operation of a smart mobile device and
 enable new combinations of functions to offer richer usability and innovations.
 Further, the mobile OS comes pre-installed on mobile devices. Relevant Market 51. The DG has examined various aspects for the purpose of delineating relevant
 market related to mobile operating systems. Based on the analysis of the
 provisions of the Act and submissions of the parties, the DG has concluded that
 there is no substitutability between (a) basic feature phones OS and smart mobile
 OS, (b) smart mobile OS and desktop/computer OS, and (c) licensable smart
 mobile OS and non-licensable smart mobile OS. Accordingly, the first relevant
 market delineated by the DG, in the present case, is the 'market for licensable OS Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 18 Public Version

 for smart mobile devices in India'. The observations of the Commission in this
 respect are as follows: 52. The DG has observed that from a demand side perspective, a user buying a smart
 mobile device requires a smart mobile OS to activate the various enhanced
 functions of the device and OEMs cannot substitute a smart mobile OS with a
 feature phone OS, as they neither have the same characteristics nor do they serve
 the same intended use; and OEMs that manufacture feature phones cannot
 substitute feature phone OS with smart mobile OS for its feature phone handsets
 and vice versa. 53. Even from the perspective of an OS developer, i.e., a supply-side perspective, the
 development of a smart mobile OS requires significant time and resources, even
 if the OS developer in question has already developed a basic and feature phone
 OS, and therefore, it is evidently not easy to switch between the two OS. This is
 confirmed by the fact that no developer of a feature phone OS has successfully
 launched a smart mobile OS in the last five years, and the most successful smart
 mobile OS developers (Google and Apple) do not develop feature phone OS. 54. In this regard, it is apt to refer to the submissions made by following third parties: 54.2. Vivo Mobile India Private Limited (Vivo), an OEM has stated that,
 '... The user interface is different from the basic/feature mobile phone.
 The user can perform touch screen processing with fingers and
 gestures to issue various instructions... Users can access & install various applications through the
 smartphone OS, and the system provide users with unified
 management like process management, memory management, and
 authority management ... With higher-performance processor, the smartphone OS can help
 users meet entertainment needs through audio, video, and image
 frame rate analysis capabilities on the basis of functional machines
 meeting communication requirements... '

 54.3. Xiaomi Technology India Private Limited (Xiaomi) another OEM has stated
 that,
 "... Mobile OSs also differ on the features provided to its users such
 as user interface, security, software updates, application
 compatibility etc. Additionally, Mobile OSs for feature phones are
 generally limited in functionality and features as compared to Mobile
 OSs for smartphones... ". 55. On the other hand, Google has contended that Android OS faces significant
 competitive constraints from the OS for basic feature phones. It has been stated
 that modem basic feature phones are more intricate and support greater
 functionalities, which are traditionally supported only by smartphone devices.
 The relevant extracts from the submission are reproduced below: 56. The Commission notes that smart mobile device OS provide features of both a
 basic feature phone and computers. Further, smart mobile OS enables user to
 interact with touchscreen and voice rather than keyboard like the basic feature
 phones. The operating system for smart mobile devices is different from OS of
 feature phones as the latter is endowed with greater functionalities to support
 availability of APIs, cloud capabilities, advanced video and graphics processing,
 and more powerful and integrated third-party apps. Other than this, smart mobile
 devices have powerful hardware in terms of RAM, screen size and power
 requirements compared to basic feature phone devices. This further implies
 development of OS for smart mobile devices requires greater amount of time and
 resources compared to its counterpart for basic feature phones. Moreover, the
 smart mobile devices are expensive compared to basic feature phone due to these
 functionalities. 57. The Commission is of the view that due to these significant differences in the
 capability of the smart mobile devices vis-à-vis feature phones, an OEM cannot
 use feature phone OS on a smart mobile device and vice versa. 58. Further, from supply side perspective also, the suppliers of feature phone OS are
 different from smart phone OS suppliers as the development of a smart mobile
 OS requires significant time and resources. Even if the developer in question has
 already developed a basic and feature phone OS, it will take significant investment Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 21 Public Version

 both monetary and non-monetary to develop a smart phone OS. Thus, there are
 substantial barriers of entry associated with development of smart mobile OS. The
 Investigation has also not revealed any instance where a feature phone OS
 developer has launched a smart phone OS, on the other hand, some smart phone
 OS developers viz. Microsoft Windows Phone OS, have exited the market. 59. Based on the foregoing analysis, the Commission finds that basic or feature phone
 OSs are different from smart phone OSs and thus, are not substitutable. ii. Substitutability between mobile OS for smart mobile devices and desktop/
 computer OS 60. The DG has also examined the substitutability between mobile OS for smart
 mobile devices and desktop/ personal computer OS. The DG has noted that
 Computer operating systems are not designed for usage on mobile. Mobile OS are
 additionally optimized to run under minimal power & Random Access Memory
 (RAM) requirements and have feature to prevent energy loss. Furthermore, the
 development of OS for smart mobile devices requires considerable investment in
 R&D and lead time. The DG has further stated that in addition to the traditional
 features of a desktop, smart mobile devices also have other peculiar features
 which a smart mobile OS needs to factor in. 61. In this regard, it is apt to refer to the following submissions of third parties: based OS are portable nature of hardware, usage scenario and interactions
 methods of different OS. Mobile devices use more screen clicks, presses,
 and slides for execution of command whereas desktop OS rely on mouse
 and touch-based interaction for execution of the same. Furthermore, mobile
 OSs are endowed with capabilities for usage over wireless networks. In this
 perspective, Vivo has submitted that: 62. It is also noted that Google itself, has developed Chrome OS, for licensing to
 computer manufacturers to produce PCs/ laptops whereas, Android OS is licensed
 for smart mobile devices. Google does not license Chrome OS for smartphones.
 Further, smart mobile OSs, also require functionalities that are specific to smart
 mobile devices and are different from those of PC/ laptop OSs viz. in terms of
 touchscreen, processing capabilities, smaller screen sizes, memory, display, and
 power management, wireless functions, and apps that are better suited for simpler
 mobile devices rather than PC OSs which are designed for higher performance
 CPUs, larger screens and greater hard disc storage capabilities. Public Version 63. Based on the above, the Commission concurs with the finding of the DG that
 owing to technological differences and differences in intended usage and
 characteristics, there is no substitutability between smart mobile OS and desktop
 OS, and they form part of separate relevant markets. iii. Substitutability between licensable and non-licensable mobile OS for smart
 mobile devices 64. Before adverting to this issue, the Commission, based on the information
 available on record, notes that smart mobile device OSs can be broadly
 categorised into two groups viz. licensable and non-licensable. As the name
 suggests, licensable smart mobile device OSs are those which are available for
 licensing by the OS developer/ owner with or without a licensing fee. Google's
 Android OS is a licensable smart mobile device OS as it is made available by
 Google for licensing to third party device OEMs i.e., Samsung, Xiaomi, Vivo, etc.
 Few other licensable smart mobile device OSs are Windows Phone OS, Amazon's
 Fire OS, etc. The other category, i.e., non-licensable smart mobile device OSs,
 includes those that are not licensed by the OS owner and thus, are not available to
 third party OEMs for installation in their respective smart devices. The prime
 example of this category is iOS, which is developed by Apple Inc., a vertically
 integrated OEM, for captive use in their own smart mobile devices. In other
 words, Apple does not license its iOS to third party smart mobile device OEMs
 and uses the same in manufacturing its own smart mobile devices i.e., iPhone and
 iPad. Another example in this category was Blackberry OS which was used
 captively by Blackberry in its devices. 65. Google in its submission argued that licensable and non-licensable OSs compete
 to attract users and developers. Further, it was claimed that the intense rivalry for
 developers and users between Apple and Android has fuelled innovation and
 benefited consumers and developers. The DG has examined this issue in detail for Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 24 Public Version

 the purpose of delineation of relevant market and concluded that all licensable
 smart mobile OSs belong to the same product market, but non-licensable OS do
 not belong to the same relevant market. 66. In this regard, the DG has noted that out of the two prominent non-licensable
 operating systems for smart mobile devices i.e., Apple and BlackBerry, the latter
 has negligible market share of 0.01%. Therefore, iOS is the only significant non-
 licensable OS for smart mobile devices which is used by vertically integrated
 Apple, for captive use in their own smart mobile devices. In other words, Apple
 does not license its iOS to third party smart mobile device OEMs and uses the
 same in manufacturing its own smart mobile devices i.e., iPhone and iPad. In this
 relation, the Commission observes that from a demand side perspective, third
 party smart device OEMs viz. Xiaomi, Vivo, Oppo, Samsung, etc. can only install
 those smart mobile device OSs in their respective devices, which are available for
 license by the OS owner/ developer (viz. Google's Android, etc.). Such OEMs
 cannot obtain non-licensable OSs (viz. Apple's iOS and BlackBerry OS) as the
 same is not granted by the OS owner. Thus, from the perspective of the OEMs,
 switching to such non-licensable OSs is not an option and thus, cannot be
 considered as a potential substitute to licensable OSs. 67. In this context, it is important to note the following submissions of few third
 parties: 67.2. Oslabs Technologies (Indus OS) in its submission, has stated that: 86. Similarly, Amazon, another competitor in the relevant market stated that there are
 multiple factors affecting utility of an OS, out of which robust app and technology
 ecosystem is one of them. The relevant extracts are reproduced below: 87. Apart from design, functionality and features of Android OS, the main reason for
 its demand among the mobile users is rich app as compared to any other
 competing OS. Likewise, the significant numbers of the users of Android OS
 incentivises the app developers to write/ develop apps for Android OS as they can
 target a large audience by writing a single app. The large bouquet of apps thus
 reinforces demand for Android OS, augmenting Google's dominant position and
 thereby perpetuating app developers' incentives to write apps mainly for Android
 OS. This self - reinforcing cycle can also be referred to a 'positive feedback loop'. 88. Further, as depicted by the example of Amazon and Microsoft, the developer of a
 new OS would not only require the technology related capability to develop the
 OS from scratch but would have to overcome various other barriers to entry,
 particularly, the application barriers to entry discussed above. The OS developer
 have to convince the app developers to write apps for the new OS. However, app
 developers may find it prohibitively expensive to develop/ write apps for a new
 smart mobile OS, whose user base is not large enough. Moreover, due to variation
 in the architecture of various licensable OSs, the conversion of an app from one
 licensable OS to another OS would be resource intensive and the app developer Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 35 Public Version

 may not have incentive to do so without presence of adequate user base on the
 new OS. Likewise, the end users would not prefer to use the smart mobile OS
 which is having a limited number of apps available on its platform. Similarly,
 OEMs would also prefer a licensable OS which not only has sufficient user base
 but also sufficient app developer base. 89. Based on the above, it is noted that commercial success of an operating system is
 dependent on the willingness of mobile app developers to develop apps for the
 OS, willingness of OEMs to sell devices based on new OS and user preference
 for the new OS. The network effects operating in the relevant market operate as
 an entry barrier and makes it difficult for a new OS to enter the market and achieve
 a commercial and viable scale. 90. Accordingly, the Commission notes that the application barrier of entry associated
 with development of alternate OS, further consolidates Google's dominant
 position in the relevant market. d.) Switching Costs 91. The DG has also examined the switching costs associated with shifting onto a
 competing OS such as consumer inertia, satisfaction with the characteristics of
 Android devices and brand loyalty which may prevent any switching to the
 competing OS. It is noted that users face considerable switching cost while
 changing an operating system. This factor further adds to the hegemony of Google
 in the delineated relevant market for licensable OS for smart mobile in India. e.) Barriers to Entry in market for mobile OS 92. The Investigation has also revealed that development of mobile operating system
 requires significant amount of capital and investment in Research and
 Development both at stage of launch and further in marketing of OS. In addition, Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 36 Public Version

 periodic investments are also needed for maintenance, release of newer versions
 and development of updates and new functionalities. 93. Google has stated that has been spent in developing Android, and
 even more in the Android ecosystem as a whole (including the open-source OS
 and Google's proprietary Android apps). Further, it continues to incur significant
 costs annually in maintaining and updating the Android platform. 94. In this regard, it is also apposite to refer to submissions of following third parties: Public Version

 94.3. Vivo stated that,
 "... If new players need to build a new operating system that can
 benchmarking the market, they need to recruit a large number of
 professionals to carry out code development, platform, application
 functions and experience design... If new players use the Android
 open source system for secondary development and launch to the
 market, they need to obtain Google's core authorization, including
 but not limited to application pre-installation authorization, GMS
 authorization, capability authentication authorization, etc. ..." 94.4. Xiaomi indicated that,
 "... Developing a new OS for smartphones requires significant
 investment in research and development, in terms of time, effort,
 resources and capital. The extent of the time, effort, resources and
 capital required in the necessary engineering work would broadly
 depend on (a) the complexity of the smartphone for which the OS is
 being developed; and (b) the targeted user base. For example, Kai
 OS is a simpler and lighter OS than the Android OS, and hence
 requires lesser investment in research and development. For any new
 entrant with sufficient capital, time, and resources, developing an OS
 is not a significant challenge. However, the ecosystem of existing app
 developers may pose a greater challenge for a new player trying to
 develop a smartphone OS. App developers must be willing to develop
 apps compatible with the new OS to enable the new OS to compete
 with existing operating systems in the market. This requires time and
 effort on the part of the App developers, who would ordinarily
 prioritize developing and updating apps for a more popular OS than
 a new OS. Accordingly, a new OS may face a barrier to entry in the
 form of an unwillingness of App developers to develop apps for their
 OS." 94.5. Karbonn has explained the various entry barriers faced by a new entrant in
 market for mobile OS. The relevant extracts of his submission are
 reproduced below: 94.6. Oppo stated that,
 "... System ecology is the major entry barrier for a new player in
 the market of smart mobile Operating system as end users tend to
 choose system with more function and more third-party applications.
 There are less users, and third-party developers are unwilling to
 develop applications, resulting in users not having enough third-
 party applications to use. Moreover, main obstacle to the late
 comers of the system is the shortage of the third-party
 applications and new features." 95. Based on the above submissions, it is noted that development of a new operating
 system requires enormous amount of investment in terms of physical, financial
 and human capital along with overcoming the problem of ensuring wider
 acceptability of the new OS among the OEMs, app developers and specially users. 96. In the context of entry barriers in the relevant market, it is important to appreciate
 the impact of the restrictions imposed by Google on use of Android through its
 agreements with OEMs (i.e., MADA and Anti-fragmentation Agreement (AFA)/
 Android Compatibility Commitment (ACC)). In this regard, following
 submissions made by Amazon's Fire OS (which is based on Android source code
 AOSP) are important: 97. Therefore, the restrictions imposed on OEMs make it difficult for developers of
 Android forks in finding OEMs that are willing to install their operating system.
 This significantly reduces the viability of Android forks and therefore restricts
 what would otherwise be an alternative platform on which rivals provide apps and
 services that compete with Google's own apps and services. Thus, despite the free
 availability of AOSP license, requirement of complying with MADA and AFA
 for OEMs indicate that these Agreements foreclose the entry of new entrants thus,
 works as significant barriers to entry in the relevant market. 98. Amazon further contended that the APIs used by app developers for interacting
 with hardware and software layers in Android OS are not made available to
 competing Android forks and also Google has architected its APIs in a way that
 prevents interoperability and has made it impossible for Amazon to provide a
 solution that enables switching between Google APIs and Amazon APIs without
 additional work by app developers. Relevant extracts are reproduced below: 99. Thus, it is noted that there are significantly high entry barriers in the market for
 licensable smart mobile operating system in India. Further, Google's practices
 restrict interoperability of apps between Android OS and forked version of
 Android OS, and even between the versions of Android OS. Such conduct does
 enhance inability of new players to enter and sustain their presence in the market
 for licensable mobile OS for smart mobile devices in India. 100. It is further noted that despite free availability of AOSP license, a large number of
 OEMs have signed AFA/ ACC and MADA and obtained Google's APIs, which
 evidences that Google's Android is not constrained by instant and free availability
 of AOSP and the same is not a substitute of Google's Android. 101. Further, as revealed by the Investigation, no new OS developer has been able to
 enter the market of licensable smart mobile OS in the last five years. On the
 contrary, the exit of Microsoft's Windows Phone OS the market in 2016 and
 inability of Amazon's Fire OS to make any footprint in the Indian market has
 further consolidated the market power of Android OS thereby leaving the OEMs
 much more dependent on Google. This further evidence the existence of entry
 barriers in the relevant market. f.) Indirect Network effect Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 41 Public Version 102. As already stated, Operating Systems exhibit indirect network effects i.e., the
 benefit to users of an operating system increases with the volume and quality of
 native apps they can access on that operating system, and similarly the benefit
 to app developers increases with the number of users they can access on an
 operating system. The presence of indirect network effects is likely to act as a
 barrier to new entry and expansion as it creates a 'chicken and egg' problem i.e.,
 an operating system needs a critical mass of users to attract app developers, but
 also need a critical mass of app developers to attract users. g.) Lack of Countervailing buyer power 103. It is noted that OEMs are the direct customers for operating systems. The large
 established user base of Android devices, contributing to strong network
 effects, makes the ecosystem attractive to OEMs and App developers. Given the
 fact that Android OS enjoys significant consumer demand in India, OEMs are not
 able to develop/ identify alternatives to compete with Android OS. All major
 OEMs in Indian market with Android OS smartphone comply with MADA & AFA
 and Android Compatibility Program and are reliant on Google for Android OS
 and its new releases and along with Google Mobile Suite. Thus, the Commission
 concurs with DG that OEMs lack sufficient countervailing buying power vis-à-
 vis Google. As already elaborated, the relevant market has not seen any new entry,
 but rather encountered exits by the rivals of Google. This has left the OEMs much
 more dependent on Google. 104. From the perspective of smart mobile device users, it is noted that the only
 alternative available with them is iOS-based devices which is significantly high
 as compared to starting price at which Android based devices are available in the
 market. The users of smart mobile devices in India face considerable switching
 cost to shift to iOS primarily due to huge price difference between Android and
 iOS (and the need to download and purchase existing apps for the new smart Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 42 Public Version

 mobile OS). As such iOS, which otherwise also is not a part of the relevant market
 of licensable smart mobile device OS, do not exercise sufficient competitive
 constraints on Android. 105. Google has argued that instead of focusing on substitutability from the point of
 view of app developers and users (i.e., the relevant consumers), the DG
 improperly defined a market by focusing on OEMs. Thereafter, the alleged
 anticompetitive effects of Google's conduct were examined on completely
 different parties, i.e., app developers and users. Google further avers that from
 the point of view of developers, licensable and non-licensable OS are
 substitutable channels for distributing apps. In their responses to the DG,
 multiple developers confirmed that they make their apps available across both
 iOS and other OS such as Android OS. 106. The Commission is of the view that there is no dispute that from the mobile
 OEMs' viewpoint, only licensable mobile operating systems constitute the set of
 alternatives that they can rely on, for manufacturing mobile handsets. Thus, from
 the OEMs' perspective, licensable mobile operating systems is indispensable and
 cannot be substituted with non-licensable OSs. 107. Looking at situation from end user perspective, the Commission notes that smart
 device ecosystem of Apple (based on iOS) and Google (based on Android OS)
 have emerged as the two major mobile ecosystems, former being non-licensable
 and closed source whereas latter being licensable and open source. Some
 consumers may have preference for closed ecosystem like Apple and others may
 have a preference for open ecosystems like that of Google. Thus, in some limited
 sense, the end consumer may have the choice of a smart device based on an
 alternate OS (i.e., whether to buy iOS-based device or Android based device) and
 that too at the time of buying a smart device. Thereafter, the end consumer is Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 43 Public Version

 locked-in to the OS and faces substantial switching costs, primarily in terms of
 cost of new smart device. 108. In this regard, the Commission notes that price of the alternate device is an
 important parameter for switching decision by the users. There is no denial of the
 fact that users preferring low-priced devices would not switch to Apple devices
 due to considerable price differences. Users of high-priced devices may be in a
 position to switch to Apple devices, however, in that case user would need to learn
 the new interface, transfer the existing data on devices, the need to download and
 purchase existing apps for the new smart mobile OS, etc. In this regard, the
 Commission also notes that Apple markets its devices based on its privacy
 friendly policies. Thus, some degree of brand loyalty of the users towards the OS
 cannot be denied. All these will operate as switching costs for the users. Thus, the
 users of smart mobile devices in India face considerable switching cost to shift to
 iOS between Android and iOS (and the need to download and purchase existing
 apps for the new smart mobile OS). 109. In relation to understanding the extent of competition between Google's Android
 ecosystem and Apple's iOS ecosystem, it is also important to note the difference
 in the two business models which affect the underlying incentives of business
 decisions. Apple's business is primarily based on a vertically integrated smart
 device ecosystem which focuses on sale of high-end smart devices with state of
 the art software components. Whereas Google's business is found to be driven by
 the ultimate intent of increasing users on its platforms so that they interact with
 its various free services which is monetized through online advertising services
 by Google. The Commission further notes that competition between devices based
 on iOS and Android, from end users' perspective, is primarily a competition
 between OEMs, i.e., Apple for iOS based devices and numerous OEMs (viz.
 Samsung, Oppo, Xiaomi, Vivo, OnePlus, Google through pixel series, etc.)
 offering Android based devices. In the decision tree of the users, device OS is not Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 44 Public Version

 the sole criteria but a multitude of other parameters also viz. hardware
 configuration, price of the device, after sales services, etc. and OS is one of such
 criteria. Therefore, the competition between two ecosystems cannot be limited to
 OS alone. 110. For app developers, app stores have become a necessary medium for distribution
 of their apps to the end users. Now, availability of an app store is dependent on
 OS installed on a smart device i.e., an app developer cannot use Apple's App Store
 for distributing apps to Android users and vice versa. Thus, from the app
 developers' perspective, the app store available on Android OS (a licensable
 mobile operating systems) cannot be substituted with an app store available on
 iOS (a non-licensable OS). Google's assertion that from the point of view of
 developers, licensable and non-licensable OS are substitutable channels for
 distributing apps based on the fact that multiple developers make their apps
 available across both iOS and Android OS (i.e., multi-homing) is completely
 misdirected and reflect incorrect understanding of the market. Multi-homing by
 app developers should not be confused with demand side substitution. Even if app
 developers' multi-home across licensable and non-licensable mobile operating
 systems, such multi-homing does not tantamount to substitutability as they cannot
 substitute one operating system for the other. The Android users and iOS users are
 two different and distinct set of customers. The app developers, in order to
 maximise their reach to these set of consumers, would not like to confine their
 offerings exclusively to one of the ecosystems as it would imply losing a sizable
 portion of the potential consumers' revenue who are available on the other
 platform. Consequently, Google's claim that Apple iOS competes with Android
 to attract users and app developers cannot be accepted. Thus, the contentions
 raised by Google are rejected. This aspect from app developers' perspective is
 discussed in more detail while analysing the market for app stores and assessing
 Google's dominance. Public Version 111. As stated above, the app stores are important channels for distribution of apps
 and the availability of app store(s) is directly dependent on OS installed on a smart
 device. Therefore, it becomes important to define a market for smart mobile
 device OSs in order to set a context, to understand the nuances of the app store
 market. 112. An appreciation of the market dynamics in licensable mobile operating system in
 India makes it evident that Google's Android OS has successfully reaped the
 indirect network effects that characterize the market of operating systems, which
 essentially are multi-sided platforms. With its large user base, Android OS is the
 most preferred licensable OS for app developers and with a large universe of apps
 developed for the platform, it is the most valued licensable operating system for
 any new OEM. All relevant factors that define competition landscape, in unison,
 indicate that the relevant market of licensable mobile operating systems in India
 has tipped in favour of Google Android OS. 113. Thus, the Commission has no hesitation in concluding that Android OS and
 thereby, Google, enjoys a dominant position in the relevant market of licensable
 operating systems for smart mobile devices in India. B. Market for app stores for Android OS in India 114. Mobile app stores are digital marketplaces and are multisided platforms that
 connect app developers with device owners who are interested in those apps. Like
 any other marketplace, the viability of an app store is characterized by its capacity
 to attract enough app developers and app users while maintaining the platform's
 trust and integrity. A digital marketplace grows more desirable to customers as
 more high-quality vendors join. Similarly, a digital marketplace grows more
 desirable to vendors as it attracts more consumers. This property of digital Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 46 Public Version

 marketplaces is known as an "indirect network effect", which primarily governs
 the success of the marketplace. 115. Referring to a report published by The Netherlands Authority for Consumers &
 Markets6, the DG has also observed that a greater number of apps that are
 available for a particular OS also attracts users to that OS, which in turn further
 creates a larger audience for app developers to sell more apps. The number of apps
 available on a particular OS also incentivises OEMs to install such OS on their
 mobile handsets, since they are aware that this will attract a larger number of
 users; the more OEMs install an OS the more users run their smartphones on this
 mobile OS, and the larger the potential audience is for apps that are available for
 that OS. This virtuous cycle of scale can be demonstrated, by way of following
 image: 116. App stores can also be characterised as multisided platforms, consisting of
 different interdependent groups i.e., OEMs, users of smartphones and app
 developers. Referring to a report published by UK's Competition and Markets 6 The Report titled "Market study into mobile app stores" by the Netherlands Authority for Consumers
& Markets dated 11.04.2019 (hereinafter referred as "Market study into Mobile App Stores"),
https://www.acm.nl/sites/default/files/documents/market-study-into-mobile-app-stores.pdf Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 47 Public Version

 Authority (UK CMA),7 the DG has further observed that the benefit to users of an
 app store increases with the volume and quality of apps they can access through
 that app store and similarly the benefit to app developers increases with the
 number of users they can access through an app store. In other words, app stores
 are only attractive to users if they have enough developers and vice versa. 117. It is also noted that app stores also offer tools and services to support developers
 to build apps for the app store. Further, app stores have rules that govern the types
 of apps permitted in the app store, conduct of app developers, how users pay for
 apps, the distribution of revenue between the app and the app store, and other
 details regarding the relationship between the app store operator and the app
 developers that distribute apps through the app store. 118. Google Play Store is Google's app marketplace for Android devices. Google
 licenses Google Play as part of a suite of Google apps to device manufacturers to
 preinstall on their devices under MADA. The Investigation has revealed that
 Google Play Store has more than a billion active users in 190+ countries around
 the world. Users can find and install, through a single interface, from amongst
 millions of applications offered by hundreds of thousands of independent
 developers, which range in size and sophistication from individual developers to
 global corporations. Relevant Market 119. The DG has examined various aspects for the purpose of delineating relevant
 market related to app stores. Based on the its analysis and examination of the 7 Interim Report published by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) of UK, on Mobile
Ecosystems dated 14.12.2021 (hereinafter referred as CMA Interim Report) : 120. Google on the other hand has contested both the market delineation as well as
 determination of Google's dominance in the said market. Google claims that Play
 Store is one of numerous distribution channels where developers can distribute
 their apps and digital content and where users can access and/or purchase such
 content. 121. The Commission has perused the findings of the DG along with the evidence
 collected, objections filed by Google and other material on record. The
 observations of the Commission in respect of delineation of relevant market are
 as follows: 122. The Commission notes that apps are written/ developed for a particular OS and
 cannot be automatically ported to another OS due to various platforms'
 differentiating features which includes programming language, APIs and other
 technical parameters. Thus, app stores for non-licensable OS such as iOS and
 Blackberry cannot be run on Android as they have been specifically developed for
 these OSs. The OEMs who have installed Android OS on their respective smart
 mobile devices cannot provide an app store which is technically incompatible Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 49 Public Version

 with Android OS. In other words, availability of app store on a device is restricted
 to its compatibility to the OS. 123. Due to these technical differences between the different OSs and then resultant
 un-availability of the incompatible app store, the user's choice of the app store is
 also restricted to the alternative app store which is compatible with a specific OS.
 This implies users can only use an app store specifically developed for the OS for
 downloading the apps. Similarly, the app developer can only use app store
 specifically developed for the OS for distributing their apps to the users. 124. Further, from a supply side perspective also, the developers of app stores for other
 licensable or non-licensable smart mobile OSs are unlikely to switch to Android
 as the development of an app store for a particular OS requires considerable time
 and resources. Therefore, Microsoft which offered Windows Phone Store or
 Apple which offers App Store (for their respective OSs), are unlikely to start
 developing app store for Android OS. These players cannot be considered as a
 competitor of Google's Play Store which is developed and designed only for
 Android OS. In fact, neither Apple nor Microsoft have developed or announced
 any plan to develop and licence an app store for Android. Therefore, as rightly
 observed by the DG, the competition in the app store market is essentially
 confined to the alternative app stores for Android OS. 125. These assertions have been further corroborated from the submissions of the app
 developers, as extracted below: 125.2. InfoEdge, in its submission, stated that: 125.3. Zomato, in its submission has stated that: 126. Based on the submissions by App Store and App developers, it is noted that
 applications developed for one OS cannot be run on another OS because various
 platform differentiating factors, such as programming languages and APIs offered Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 51 Public Version

 by OS to app developers. In this regard, Zomato has stated that porting
 applications across OS is tiresome task and requires significant efforts. 127. In this regard, the DG has also referred to the CMA Interim Report and noted that
 "the App Store and Play Store do not represent strong competition for each other,
 as alternatives for users or app developers. The largest app developers are
 available on both app stores and see them as complements rather than substitutes
 due to their size and because most App Store users do not use the Play Store and
 vice versa...". Further, from the perspective of the end users, the CMA Interim
 Report further notes that: "...users generally do not have both iOS devices and
 Android devices. This means that an iOS user would need to purchase a new
 device in order to access the Play Store, and an Android user would need to
 purchase a new device in order to access the App Store ... such switching is limited
 in practice...". Thus, app store made for non-licensable OS are available within
 that ecosystem only and the same are not available for licensable OS. 128. Based on the above examination and analysis, the Commission concurs with the
 finding of the DG that there is no substitutability between app stores of non-
 licensable smart mobile OS (e.g., iOS) and app stores for Android OS. ii. Substitutability of sideloading of an app with downloading an app on
 Android OS app stores 129. Side-loading is the installation of apps on a smartphone without using the app's
 official distribution channel (i.e., an app store). However, the Investigation has
 revealed that it is an onerous process with several drawbacks. Sideloading from
 other sources requires several additional steps to be followed by users than is
 required for downloads from an app store. In addition, it is extremely difficult for
 side loaded apps to roll out updates, fix bugs, etc. Such automatic updates are
 important from both the users as well as the app developer's perspective, and
 therefore, this makes side loading a less viable option. Public Version 130. The Investigation has also revealed that Google tries to deter side loading through
 an array of technological hurdles, including a complicated multi-step process
 requiring the user to make changes to the device's default settings and manually
 granting various permissions, while encountering multiple security warnings that
 suggest side loading is unsafe. A user has to go through multiple steps and faces
 several warnings that are worded in a way that is likely to reduce the likelihood
 of users sideloading apps. This is further corroborated by submission of app
 developers, which are enumerated below. 130.1. 130.2. Oslabs Technology India Pvt Ltd (App Bazaar), in its submission, has
 stated that: 131. Google on the other hand vehemently opposed the findings of the DG and argued
 that objective data contradict the Investigation Report's conclusion that
 sideloading is not a viable substitute to Android app stores. Google has referred
 to few examples in support of its arguments. Whereas, both the Informants have
 supported the findings of the DG and have submitted that side-loading of third-
 party apps is a cumbersome process which may endanger the device's security and
 may lead to loss of user's personal data, which users may not be willing to do.
 Further, there are warnings which are displayed when users try to side load. It has
 also been explained during the oral hearing as well as through written submissions
 that sideloading in some cases, requires 16 or 17 steps or more, including
 requiring the user to make changes to the device's default settings and manually
 granting various permissions while being warned that doing so is dangerous.
 Google also admits that side-loading requires additional steps, though not 16-17,
 as claimed by the Informants. Google also states that devices that install apps from
 sources other than Google Play are more likely to be affected by Potentially
 Harmful Applications (PHAs), a risk that is recognised by industry commentators.
 In view of the above, the Commission has no doubt in holding that Google deters
 the users from side-loading the apps and thus, side-loading is not an effective
 constraint on Google. 132. The Commission notes that apps downloaded from the app stores (including
 Google Play Store) gets automatically updated and the users/ app developers are
 not required to undertake any significant efforts to achieve the same. Such
 automatic updates are important from both the users as well as the app
 developer's perspective. However, in relation to updating side-loaded apps, the
 investigation has revealed that such updation requires repeating the entire process Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 54 Public Version

 again, as updates for such apps are not rolled out by Google Play. Submissions by
 App Bazaar (a third-party app store) also indicate that these drawbacks pertaining
 to side loading applications on device makes third-party app stores less attractive
 to users and developers. 133. In this relation to Google claims that the Android 12 update (which was released
 in October 2021) allows the automatic updating of an app distributed outside of
 Google Play, where users have given the appropriate consent. Google avers that
 with this change, from a user's perspective, updating apps will be the same on and
 off Google Play. In this relation, the Commission notes that firstly, the
 Commission is examining the conduct of Google on ex-post basis i.e., where it
 was difficult to sideload the apps and users were not opting for side-loading.
 Secondly, Android 12 which has apparently allowed automatic update of side-
 loaded apps, was released only in October 2021. The impact of such change, if
 any, on the user behaviour and the app developers' option for distribution channels
 would manifest in future. There is no evidence as of now whether such change, as
 well as the manner in which such change would be implemented, will result in
 favour of the users and the app developers. 134. In this regard, the DG has also noted that the above finding is also confirmed from
 the Market study into Mobile App Stores by Netherlands Authority for Consumers
 & Market wherein it noted that only users who are already familiar with an app
 and are willing to look for it outside an app store (here it specifically considered
 the Play Store) will sideload it. In other words, whilst well known apps may still
 be actively searched for by users (such as apps for banks, etc.), this will not hold
 true for smaller, lesser well-known apps. 135. The app developers - especially smaller ones - do not have the resources and
 strategy to offer their app outside the Play Store successfully, because of the
 increased costs due to: (i) the need to develop its own download platform, and Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 55 Public Version

 host the app, and (ii) the need to create their own update regimes - which is a lot
 harder since updating sideloaded apps is only possible when users download a
 new APK file (and are not able to update through Google Play Services). 136. Google has also argued in favour of file sharing through apps like Dropbox,
 SHAREit, etc. is another alternative for users to download apps. However, the
 Commission do not find any merit in this argument. As submitted by Match
 Group, file sharing applications like SHAREit, are not intended to be used for app
 distribution and therefore are not substitutable with app stores by reason of
 consumer preference, intended use and characteristics. Such platforms necessarily
 require multiple devices i.e., they are mainly for cross-platform sharing across
 devices and do not allow direct downloads like the Play Store. They are peer-to-
 peer software distribution / file share platforms. It requires a user to first download
 the app from the app store, and only then can such apps be shared / uploaded /
 distributed through such fora. Further, the same security, malware, issues as in the
 case of sideloaded apps, would be faced by users from apps obtained from such
 fora. The Commission is of the view that developers cannot rely on these technical
 alternatives to distribute their apps. 137. Based on the above analysis, the Commission is of the view that sideloading is
 not a viable substitute for downloading apps as compared to app stores for
 Android OS. iii. Substitutability between web apps and apps downloadable from app stores
 for Android OS 138. It is noted that web applications are internet-enabled apps that may be accessed
 using the web browser on a mobile device. To use these online apps, users do not
 need to download and install the app on their devices. Moreover, web apps are
 considered to be less user friendly, have fewer options for unique functions.
 Further, there is no central store, where all the available web apps are displayed. Public Version

 Additionally, web apps aren't designed to work on smart phones. As a result, they
 function poorly and take longer to load in the form of websites in the browser, and
 they cannot be accessed offline. Content supplied to end user by such apps is static
 i.e., without any need to be modified, created and processed, thereby limiting user
 experience. 139. In this regard, the DG has referred to the findings of Interim Report of Australian
 Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) on Digital Platform Services
 Enquiry8, which infers that: 140. Further, performance of native apps (apps available on app stores) is better than
 the apps downloaded from the apps downloaded from web as former are better
 integrated with OS and device. Referring to the CMA Interim Report, the DG also
 noted that
 "...web apps, which in principle allow developers to offer their apps
 directly to users circumventing the app stores, are not currently a suitable
 alternative to native apps for most app developers. In particular, web apps
 do not currently provide the same features and functionalities as native
 apps... Overall, the evidence suggests that web apps are not currently a
 viable alternative to native Android apps for many app developers". Interim Report No. 2 - App marketplaces released by ACCC (ACCC Interim Report) as part of its
Digital Platform Services Enquiry: 141. Further, in its Market Study into Mobile App Stores, the Netherlands Authority
 for Consumers & Market found that several news apps, which tested browsers and
 web-apps as alternatives to their 'native apps' (i.e., the apps they offered on app
 stores), lost users when they switched to web apps, and as a result, reverted to
 offering their services through native apps. 142. Google claims that the DG was wrong to exclude web apps, particularly modern
 progressive web apps (PWAs), from the relevant market. Google avers that the
 Investigation Report disregarded evidence of substitutability between web apps
 and native apps from a user's perspective. Google also provided examples of such
 substitutability in its submissions. The Informants on the other hand supported the
 findings of the DG. 143. The Commission is of the view that compared to web apps, native apps i.e., the
 ones downloaded from app stores are better in performance and user experience,
 since such apps are more integrated with OS and hardware functionalities. This is
 also evident from the fact that very limited app developers have offered their apps
 through web apps and continue to be make their content available to users only
 through native apps. The Commission also find merit in the argument of the
 Informants in this regard that if PWAs were effective substitutes to native apps,
 all large app developers (Amazon, Uber, Ola, Zomato, Swiggy) would have
 changed their app-business model to PWAs. A web app developer needs
 significantly more resources to attract users on their platform as compared to easy
 access through an app store. Further, web apps do not have centralised distribution
 and discoverability as native apps. 144. Based on the above analysis, the Commission concurs with the findings of the DG
 that web apps are not an alternative to apps downloadable from app stores for
 Android OS. Public Version

 iv. Substitutability of pre-installed apps with apps downloaded from app stores 145. Pre-installation of the app on the smart devices by the OEMs is another possibility
 for app developers to reach out to the end users. In this regard, referring to the
 ACCC Interim Report, the DG has found that pre installation of apps is not
 considered any commercially viable option by app developers because the app
 developer would have to get into arrangements with a large number of OEMs in
 order to reach the same audience through pre-loading (as through an app store).
 This would be prohibitively expensive, since pre-loading often necessitates a
 commercial agreement between the app developer and the OEM, as well as a hefty
 price. 146. The Investigation has also revealed that once an app (including an app store) is
 loaded on an Android device, third-party app developers need a way to distribute
 updates to their apps, whether to add new features, fix bugs, or maintain
 compatibility with operating system changes. App updates are critical for the app's
 continuous operation and commercial sustainability, as well as for making
 continual enhancements. This renders option of pre installation of third-party apps
 less desirable to both users and app developers. 147. Similar inferences are drawn by the DG from the CMA Interim Report which
 stated that, "...pre-installation of third-party native apps on Android devices
 does not appear to be a viable alternative to the Play Store for the vast
 majority of app developers and thus does not constrain the Play Store...". 148. Google claims that pre-installation is a viable distribution channel as OEMs have
 an incentive to earn additional revenue through pre-installation agreements and
 developers do not need to contract with a large number of OEMs to reach a
 significant audience. Together, Xiaomi (26.4%), Samsung (17.5%) and Vivo
 (15.1%) account for nearly 60% of mobile devices sold in India. Entering into just Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 59 Public Version

 three agreements could therefore provide a developer with distribution across a
 significant majority of devices. 149. The Commission is of the view that given the limited space on the devices, OEMs
 generally prefer to pre-install only popular apps or its own apps or apps with
 which it has revenue sharing arrangements. Moreover, to reach a significant scale,
 the app developers have to sign agreements with all or majority of OEMs for
 preinstallation of their apps. The app developers with access to sufficient
 resources can attempt to take that route but, it is a not a commercially viable
 alternative for relatively smaller app developers. Moreover, given the presence of
 3 million apps, how many apps can secure pre-installation on the devices. The
 Commission is of the view that pre-installation as an alternative cannot be
 generalised and thus, cannot be considered as a substitute of access through app
 store. 150. Moreover, OEMs which use Android OS are required to assign prominent
 placement to Google's own application through MADA, thus, OEMs are less
 attracted to pre-install more apps. Additionally, allowing pre-installation of third-
 party apps occupies excessive disk space and memory, which is not liked by users
 as they are provided lesser space for their own preferred apps. v. Substitutability between different app stores for Android OS 151. The Commission notes that there are multiple app stores for Android OS which
 includes, Samsung Galaxy App Store, Xiaomi App Store, Huawei App Store,
 Oppo App Store, Amazon App Store, Aptoide App Store, etc. These other app
 stores are primarily OEM specific (with very few exceptions viz. Aptoide) and
 are pre-installed by the respective OEM only, alongside Google's Play Store on
 their smart device. E.g., Samsung Galaxy App Store is installed by Samsung in its
 devices only and is not installed by other OEMs. Thus, these other Android app
 stores though are substitutable with Google's Play Store individually, but in a Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 60 Public Version

 limited manner only. This aspect is further elaborated while examining the
 dominance of Google in this market. 152. The Commission is of the opinion that all these app stores belong to the same
 relevant market as an OEM, in principle, can choose to pre-install its own app
 store along with Google Play Store, on its Android devices. 153. Thus, based on the above analysis, the Commission is of the view that second
 relevant product market in this case can be defined as 'the market for app
 store for Android OS'. 154. Google argues that in defining the market as app stores for Android OS, the
 Investigation Report errs by focusing on substitutability from the perspective of
 OEMs and ignoring demand-side substitutability from users' and developers'
 points of view. Google avers that Google Play is one of numerous distribution
 channels where app developers can distribute their apps and digital content and
 where users can access and/or purchase such content. Google Play faces fierce
 competition from these different channels. The Commission is of the view that
 the boundaries of the relevant market in the instant matter i.e., the competitive
 constraints on Google Play Store remains the same irrespective as to whether the
 market is defined from the perspective of OEMs or app developers or for that
 matter, from the perspective of end users. Various other distribution channels,
 which are claimed to be a substitute with Google Play Store i.e., side-loading, web
 apps, file sharing, etc., have already been found to be only theoretical possibilities
 and without any significant usage for the app developers. Further, Apple's App
 Store is also found to be non-substitutable with Google Play Store. 155. When the market is defined from the perspective of OEMs, the nomenclature is
 the market for app stores for Android OS with all Android based app stores
 constituting the relevant market. When the market is defined from the perspective Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 61 Public Version

 of app developers, a possible nomenclature would be the market for distribution
 for apps through app stores for Android OS, again with all Android based app
 stores constituting the relevant market. Thus, even arguendo, Google's plea is
 accepted, the competitive constraints would remain same and resultantly,
 dominance assessment would not be different. 156. The Commission further notes that Google in its written as well as oral
 submissions has claimed that Google Play Store provides a host of services to app
 developers. Some of the extracts from Google's response are as follows: 157. Going by Google's own submissions, Google offers variety of services to app
 developers which would not be available if the apps are distributed through side-
 loading, web apps, file sharing, etc. In view of the unique services provided by
 the app stores, these options are not viable substitutes to Play Store. Accordingly,
 Google's arguments are rejected. Public Version 158. In respect of relevant geographic market, the DG has observed that from the
 standpoint of handset manufacturers, the terms and licence conditions of the OS
 for smart mobile devices are uniform across the country. Further, the number of
 applications that Google include in the GMS suite differs by country. Similarly,
 Google follow different criteria for licencing the Play store according on the legal
 demands of each location. It is also noted that consumer preferences, availability
 of mobile apps in local languages, and location-based applications and services,
 which largely drive the demand and popularity of App store for Android OS, are
 consistent across the Indian geographical region in terms of the relevant
 geographic market. As a result, in 'India,' the supply and demand of app stores for
 Android OS are both homogeneous and different. Accordingly, the Commission
 determines 'India' as the relevant geographic market for market for app store for
 Android OS. 159. Accordingly, the Commission delineates "market for app stores for Android OS
 in India" as the second relevant market for the instant matter. Assessment of Dominance of Google 160. The DG has concluded that the market for app stores for Android OS devices
 is characterized by a position of strength for Google given the fact the Google
 Play Store is largest app store in terms of users, availability of apps and
 developers compared to other app stores. Further, the DG noted that there are
 significant entry barriers in the market. Moreover, the DG found that the
 cumbersome process of side-loading of apps and pre-installation not being a
 viable alternative also works in favour of Google Play Store. Thus, as per the DG,
 Google Play Store is dominant in the relevant market for App Store for Android
 OS in India. Public Version 161. The observations of the Commission in this respect are as follows: 162. As already stated, there are various app stores store which have been developed
 for Android smart mobile OS which, in addition to Google's Play Store, includes
 Samsung Galaxy App Store, Xiaomi App Store (Mi-Store), OPPO App Store,
 Huawei App Store, Aptoid App Store, etc. 163. The Commission is of the view that market share is one of the primary though not
 determinative parameters to assess dominance in a relevant market. There are at-
 least two methods to disinter, the market share of Google in the relevant market.
 Firstly, calculating the share of smart mobile devices using Google Android on
 which a given app store is pre-installed. This method allows for an assessment
 of the economic strength of an Android app store at the level of OEMs, which
 pre-install app stores on their Android devices. Secondly, calculating the market
 share of a given Android app store on the basis of the number of apps available
 via that store. This method allows for an assessment of the economic strength of
 an Android App store at the level of app developers or the choice available to
 users of Android devices. Thus, using both these methods will help in holistic
 understanding as to dominant position of OPs in the market for App store for
 Android OS in India. 164. Google has stated that it does not make Google Play available to end users outside
 of its arrangements with device manufacturers under the MADA since allowing
 users to download Google Play would undermine the value of this licence and the
 efficiencies they derive from it. It means Play store comes pre-installed on all the
 devices which have pre-installed GMS under MADA. Subsequently, Google has
 provided the details of the smart mobile devices (brands) sold in India in which
 Google Play Store comes preinstalled. Google has stated that the submitted data
 pertains to the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 64 Public Version 165. Based on above submissions, the Commission notes that Google Play Store is pre- installed on 100% Android OS devices. Whereas the other app stores such as
 Samsung Galaxy App Store, OPPO App market, VIVO App Store, etc. are pre-
 installed only on the devices that are sold under their brand name (e.g., Samsung
 Galaxy Store was pre-installed on Android devices in 2020 as compared
 to 100% pre-installations secured by Google Play Store). Thus, these competing Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 65 Public Version

 app stores failed to offer any significant contest to the monopoly of Google Play
 Store. Thus, by listing its apps on the Play Store, an app developer can reach
 virtually the entire market as against the other app stores which have limited
 reach. 166. Based on the total number of Android devices, the Commission further notes that
 pre-installation of Google Play Store on various smart mobile handset continues
 to see upward growth trajectory since year 2011. In other words, in year 2011,
 Google Play Store was pre-installed on number of devices, but this
 figure in year 2020 zoomed to . 167. Google Play Store's dominant position is further manifested when a comparison
 is drawn between volume of smartphone shipments across India from the year
 2011 to 20209 with that of number of pre-installation of Google Play Store
 during 2011 to 2020 as submitted by Google. 9 https://www.statista.com/statistics/792767/india-smartphone-shipments-volume/ Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 66 Public Version

 Graph: Volume of smartphone shipments across India from the year
 2011 to 2020 168. Based on the above datasets, it becomes axiomatic that Google Play Store was
 pre-installed on approximately smartphones in the year 2020 out of
 the total 149 million smartphone shipped in India i.e., around of the
 smartphone shipped in India. This further add validation to the argument that
 Google is dominant in the relevant market for app store for android OS in India. 169. Google's position in the relevant market is reinforced by the number of Apps
 available on the Google Play Store. The Play Store is the app store with the largest
 quantity of apps.10 The same is reproduced in the form of graph as under: play-store/ Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 67 Public Version 170. This data is corroborated from the data submitted by Google in relation to
 numbers of Apps available on Google Play Store for Indian users. The same is
 reproduced herein under along with data pertaining to numbers of Apps
 downloaded in India: 171. The comparative analysis of the data regarding number of apps available on
 Google Play Store vis-à-vis other app stores on Android devices in India, is as
 follows: 172. This data can also be represented graphically, as follows: 173. It can be observed from the above Table that as of 2020, highest number of apps
 were available on Google Play followed by Amazon App Store and App Bazaar.
 Disparity in the number of Apps available among different App stores reveals the
 market power of Google Play store in this relevant market for app store for
 Android OS in India. 174. On basis of the above analysis and data, the Commission notes that Google
 enjoys a very strong position in the relevant market and the same is not upended
 by competition from third party app stores (which anyways is restricted to OEMs
 own devices only). Due to the network effects, the quantity and popularly of apps
 available on any app store becomes very crucial from the stakeholder's
 perspective. Based on the available data, the Commission notes that the Play Store
 is the app store with the largest quantity of apps. Based on the data available, the
 Commission notes that other app stores lagged way behind in terms of number of Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 70 Public Version

 apps available therein and seemed to provide to customers no choice or alternate
 to Google Play Store in the market for app store for Android OS. 175. From the data collected by the DG, the Commission further notes that the total
 number of active app developers on Google Play Store and Amazon App Store
 are as follows (as of January 2017)11: 176. Thus, it is noted that Google Play Store leads other app stores in terms of the
 number of developers in the market for app stores in Android OS. App developers
 prefer to support their apps for Google Play rather than other app stores because
 of its larger user base. b. Barriers to Entry 177. Based on the available information on record, the Commission notes that the
 relevant market for app store for Android OS is characterised by various entry
 barriers. The requirement of significant investment in developing, marketing, and
 updating an app store for Android OS is one of them. 178. In this context, it is pertinent to note the submission of Amazon: Public Version 179. Google has submitted that it invests heavily in Google Play to keep it competitive
 with other Android and non-Android app stores. In 2020 alone, for example,
 Google invested more than USD 1.56 billion in Play. 180. Thus, the Commission notes that the relevant market requires significant
 investment and thus act as a major entry barrier. 181. The Investigation has further revealed that the app store is a two-sided market in
 which Google has been able to attract a large number of Android users on one side
 (due to presence of large number of apps) and large number of app developers on
 the other side (due to potential to reach a large audience). Google thus enjoys a
 strong 'network effect' of large user base and apps developers in the market of
 app store for Android OS, which makes Google's position unassailable. This is
 further apparent from the submissions of parties who have developed/ involved
 in creation of App Stores. 181.1. Amazon stated that,
 "... In United States v. Microsoft, the US Court of Appeals upheld
 the District Court's observation that this "applications barrier
 to entry" stems from two characteristics of software markets: (1)
 most consumers prefer an OS for which a large number of
 applications have already been written; and (2) most developers
 prefer to create applications for an OS that already has a
 substantial user base. This "chicken-and-egg" situation arising out
 of the applications barrier to entry means that applications will
 continue to be written for existing OS, which in turn ensures that
 consumers will continue to prefer it over new entrant OSs..." 181.2. Vivo stated that,
 "... At present, in terms of market share and number of users, there
 is a big gap between Vivo and GP (Google Play), which makes it less Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 72 Public Version

 attractive to developers with greater circulation needs. The
 richness of content and the timeliness of version updates are not as
 attractive to new users as GP..." 181.3. Realme stated that,
 "... System ecology is the major entry barrier for a new player in the
 market of smart mobile Operating system as end users tend to
 choose system with more function and more third-party applications.
 There are less users, and third-party developers are unwilling to
 develop applications, resulting in users not having enough third-
 party applications to use. Moreover, main obstacle to the late
 comers of the system is the shortage of the third-party
 applications and new feature..." 181.4. Microsoft mentioned that,
 "... During the time it was operational, Windows Phone devices
 (having the in-built Microsoft App Store), potentially suffered
 because of the so-called "app gap." App developers did not find it
 economical to port and support their most popular apps for Windows
 Phone OS given its low market share compared to iOS and Android.
 As a result, the Windows Phone OS platform did not have many
 of the popular mobile apps on which consumers had come to rely.
 Without these apps, Windows Phone had trouble attracting and
 retaining users. In later years, Windows Phone OS (having the in-
 built Microsoft App Store) suffered from quality issues, due to
 Microsoft prioritizing other projects. Even at the height of its
 popularly, i.e., in the period from 2013 to 2015, Windows Phone
 OS never exceeded a market share of 2-3% on a worldwide basis..." 182. Based on the above, it is noted that both app developers and app users are
 immensely important in ensuring that app store goes off the ground i.e., grows
 larger in terms of size. Network effects results in entry barriers for new entrants
 and make it much more difficult to achieve a commercially viable scale. Further,
 a significant investment is also required in development, maintenance,
 functioning and updating of app store platform. It is further observed that other
 factors affecting desirability of an app store are its content available on the
 app store and regular version updates. Public Version 183. The above discussion regarding entry barriers also requires a look into the
 technical issues involved in establishing app store as claimed by Amazon, which
 arises from exclusion of forked versions of Android by Google from all critical
 aspects of Android Ecosystem. The relevant extracts from Amazon's
 submission pertaining to market for mobile operating system are reproduced
 below: 184. Google Play Service APIs is a software layer working in the background of
 Android that is used to update Google apps and other apps from Google Play.
 Most of the Android apps use Google Play Services API for their functioning and
 without access to same, these Android applications will simply fail to work.
 Google Play Services are provided along with Google Play and are not available
 separately. Moreover, any update to the Google Play Service is provided by
 Google automatically on all supported devices via the Google Play Store only.
 Whilst it is technically feasible to ship a phone without Google Play Services,
 OEMs who do so, will be at a significant disadvantage to OEMs that ship with
 Google Play Services. Android devices in which Google Play Store and Google
 Play Service is not pre-installed, may face difficulty in automatic software
 updates, new releases, bug fixes and enhancements included in the new versions
 of Android. Thus, the OEMs has to agree to take license of Google Play from
 Google, in order to have access to Google Play Services. Public Version 185. From the aforesaid reply, it is observed that Google does not provide access to its
 APIs to Fire OS (forked version of Android) devices, thereby making it difficult
 for app developers to port their apps from Android OS to Fire OS. Based on the
 above, the Commission notes that a competing app store has to offer not only the
 store but also develop its own APIs with similar functionalities as those of Google
 Play Services. Thus, the un-availability of Google Play services APIs also acts as
 an entry barrier in the relevant market. 186. In addition, the DG has also noted that MADA requires OEMs to preinstall
 'Google Applications' (including Google Play) to be prominently presented 'at
 least on the panel immediately adjacent to the Default Home Screen' and others
 'no more than one level below the Phone Top.' Some of the newer versions of
 MADA agreements even specify the sequence, from left to right and top to
 bottom, in which the Google apps must be presented. This prominence given to
 Google applications results in a status-quo bias of consumers. Further, many of
 the pre-installed apps cannot be deleted. These issues suggest that such pre-
 installation makes solving the 'chicken and egg' problem more difficult since it
 requires overcoming the status quo bias of consumers. This is further corroborated
 by submissions of App developers. 187. Map my India (an App developer), asserted that
 '... Most Android smartphones come pre-installed with Google Mobile
 Services, including Google Maps, Google Search, Google Play Store, etc.
 Google Play Store is the biggest mobile application store in the world and
 accounts for more than 90% of the total mobile applications downloaded
 on smartphones having an Android OS. It is important to note that till date,
 no Android app store developer has been able to replace Google Play
 Store as it requires the developer to not only develop an app store but
 also its own APIs and functionality similar to Google, i.e. in essence, to
 replicate the entire Google ecosystem. Since this requires substantial and
 indefinite investment, Google continues to remain dominant in the "app
 store" market as well. Due to this dominance, it can impose unilateral
 terms on competitive apps or suspend/ban them as per its own discretion.
 This is the biggest challenge for developers like MMI whose app are Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 75 Public Version

 available on the Play Store and continue to compete with Google's own
 product, i.e. Google maps....' 188. The Investigation has also revealed that Google is sharing significant quantum of
 money with the OEMs (HTC, Huawei, Lenovo, Motorola, OnePlus, Oppo,
 Samsung, Vivo, and Xiaomi etc.) under the RSAs in relation to devices used by
 users in India. As per the provisions of RSAs, OEMs are provided with
 the financial incentive for pre-installation of certain Google Applications. c. Side-loading, a cumbersome process: 189. It is noted that Google does not allow distribution of a competing app store
 through Play Store i.e., an app store is not available for download by the user
 through pre-installed Play Store. Thus, any competing Android app store may face
 barriers in terms of discoverability by users as such app store can only be
 downloaded from the website and not through Google Play Store, which is also
 referred to 'side loading'. As already discussed earlier, Google discourages users
 from side-loading apps as well as app stores from other sources. The default
 settings of Android OS device results in blocking of any such attempt, though
 these settings can be circumvented by end users and enabling downloads
 from unknown sources. However, it may be noted that doing so requires some
 basic technical knowledge. 190. In this regard, it is apposite to refer to submissions Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 76 Public Version 191. In this regard, the DG has also referred to the UK CMA Report which observed
 that 'the majority of app developers that responded to our request for information
 did not use side-loading as a distribution channel or identify it as an alternative
 to the Play Store. Reasons provided for this included the process users have to go
 through on Android devices to side-load apps ... side-loaded apps may lead to a
 suboptimal experience as features may break and because it requires users to turn
 off the security settings on their device.' 192. Based on the above, the Commission is of the view that side loading of an app
 store / app does not offer a competitive constraint on Google's position in the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 77 Public Version

 relevant market for App Store for Android OS based devices. Process of side
 loading apps involves a serious risk of malware which serves as an entry barriers
 for third party app stores. Moreover, the process of side loading requires reducing
 security settings of the mobile device, which users may not be interested in. The
 cumbersome process of side loading and security threats involved further
 enhances the dependence of Android users on Google Play Store. Moreover,
 sideloading of apps does not allow automatic update functionality for the apps,
 which deters the users as well as app developers, in general from relying on side-
 loading a viable option. 193. The Commission notes that Google' Play Store is significant from the point of
 view of smart mobile device users as well as app developers. Given the fact that
 Google's Play Store offers highest number of apps and also offers a greater quality
 of apps, the Android device user seems to have a preference for Google Play Store
 and consider it as a 'must have' app. The preference of the user/ app developers
 also reinforces the dominant position of Google in the relevant market for app
 stores for Android OS in India. 194. As already stated, Google in its submission has contested delineation of the
 market definition as well as determination of its dominance in the same. Many of
 the arguments of Google have already been considered and examined above.
 Google has further averred that the delineation of the relevant market fails to meet
 the requirements of the Act. To establish a "relevant product market", the
 substitutability of the products for consumers must be assessed by reference to the
 prices, characteristics, and intended use of the products. It has been further
 submitted that the Investigation Report relies on the reports of international
 competition authorities that have no relevance to app distribution and/or market
 conditions in India. Public Version 195. The Commission has perused and examined various submissions of Google as
 summarised above, however, the same is not convincing because of various
 reasons discussed in following paragraphs. 196. An app store is a specific kind of application, which offers marketplace services
 to connect apps/app developers with users. These app stores are specific to the OS
 for which it has been developed (as already discussed supra) and cannot be used
 interchangeably due to difference in source code and APIs. Apple's App Store can
 be used on iOS whereas, Google's Play Store can be used on Android OS. 197. The demand for the app stores on the other hand, come from three different sets
 of consumers i.e., (a) Smart device OEMs who wish to install an app store to make
 their smart devices commercially viable and marketable; (b) app developers, who
 want to offer their services to the end users; and (c) end users to wish to access
 app stores to access content or avail other services. For reasons already discussed
 above, an OEM can only choose to pre-install an app store which supports the OS
 being used by the OEM. Since, presently, there are only two smart device OSs
 prevailing in the mobile ecosystem i.e., Apple's iOS (which is a non-licensable
 OS) and Android OS, which is virtually and practically the only OS available to
 those OEMs who are dependent on third party OSs for their smart devices. Thus,
 once the OEM has chosen to manufacture smart devices using Android OS, they
 can only choose app stores which are written for Android OS (viz. Google's Play
 Store and other OEM specific app stores). For these OEMs, Apple's App Store is
 not an option at all and thus cannot be considered as a substitute. 198. Once the OEM has installed particular app store on its devices, the same becomes
 a door between app developers and the users. An app developer to reach the user
 base on a particular OS/ ecosystem (i.e., Android or iOS), must rely on the app
 store on that particular OS only. In other words, an app developer cannot reach an
 iOS user through Google's Play Store and an Android user through Apple's App Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 79 Public Version

 Store. Therefore, these two app stores cannot be considered as substitute by the
 app developers. The app developers, in order to expand their reach to maximum
 set of consumers, would not like to confine their offerings exclusively to one of
 the ecosystems as it would imply losing a sizable portion of the potential
 consumers' revenue who are available on the other platform. Therefore, they
 multi-home and offer apps on both the platforms. Further, recognising cross side
 network effects, app developers have to develop and innovate for each of the
 ecosystem to be able to maximise their revenue and provide a wider consumer
 choice. 199. Now, examining the substitutability between Google's Play Store and Apple's
 App Store from an end user perspective, the Commission notes that the natural
 corollary of the above-mentioned reasoning is that an Android user cannot use
 Apple App store for downloading apps on her device. Similarly, an Apple user
 cannot use an app store meant for Android OS to download apps. The end user
 does not multi-home across app stores on different operating systems/platforms
 for their requirements. Thus, from an end user perspective also, Google's Play
 Store and Apple's App Store are not substitutable. The Commission further notes
 that there might be some degree of competition between the two mobile
 ecosystems i.e., Android and Apple, however, that too is also limited at the time
 of deciding as to which device to buy. At that stage also, the Commission is of the
 considered view that the primary and the most significant factor in the mind of an
 end user is the hardware specification and the device price. The Commission find
 it hard to accept that the end user also considers the app store present in the
 respective OSs as the primary factor, while deciding as to which device to buy.
 Google has not presented any evidence let alone a convincing one to establish the
 same. 200. The Commission of the view that the limited competition between Android and
 Apple ecosystems (and not between the respective app stores per se) from the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 80 Public Version

 perspective of end user, is not sufficient to constrain the behaviour of Google
 while laying down policies for its app store. 201. Even from the two other constituents of the demand side of app stores i.e., app
 developers and the end users, the Commission find that there is no substitutability
 between Google's Play Store and Apple's App Store. Accordingly, the
 Commission is not convinced by the arguments of Google and notes that Apple's
 App Store cannot be considered to be the same relevant market as that of Google
 Play Store. Once Apple App Store is excluded from the relevant market for
 Google Play Store, there is no question of exercising any competitive constraints
 from Apple App Store. 202. Further, Google has attempted to use a literal interpretation of Section 2(t) of the
 Act, to claim similarity between Play Store and Apple's App Store based on
 characteristics, prices and intended use. After examining the averments of Google,
 the Commission is of the view that firstly, the interpretation of any statutory
 provision and specifically for economic legislations, cannot be divorced from the
 commercial reality and technical feasibility. For various reasons already discussed
 above which reflect the actual market outcomes, Google's Play Store and Apple's
 App Store cannot be considered as substitutes. Secondly, even the literal
 interpretation adopted by Google is also devoid of any merit and thus needs to be
 rejected. Section 2(t) provides that relevant product market comprises of all those
 products or services which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the
 consumer, by reason of characteristics of the products or services, their prices and
 intended use. In the present matter, none of the constituents of the demand side of
 app stores considers Google's Play Store and Apple's App Store as
 interchangeable or substitutable, as discussed supra. 203. The claim of Google that it competes with Apple's App Store is also demolished
 from a bare perusal of the fact that Google, as an app developer, offers its Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 81 Public Version

 proprietary apps viz. Google Search, Google Chrome, Google YouTube, Google
 Maps, etc. on Apple's App Store (or erstwhile Windows Store) but not on the other
 app stores for Android OS. Google realises that app stores are an important
 gateway to reach the users in each of such ecosystems. Google has secured access
 to 100% of the users on the Android platform by way of imposing pre-installation
 through MADA on all Android devices. However, in order to reach users on iOS
 platform, Google need to provide its apps available for download on Apple App
 Store. In pursuit of this objective, Google has also entered into an agreement with
 Apple for being the default search engine on Safari Browser. The Commission is
 of the view that like any other app developer, Google in order to maximise its
 consumer base, cannot afford to lose a sizable portion of the potential consumers
 available on iOS platform. This in itself, indicates that Google's Play Store and
 Apple's App Store are two different distribution channels for reaching out to two
 distinct set of customers. 204. Google has also argued that the Investigation Report relies on the reports of
 international competition authorities that have no relevance to app distribution
 and/or market conditions in India. The Commission is of the view that same is of
 no relevance as, firstly, the DG is a fact-finding body and has to gather evidence
 and forward the same to the Commission. The process of adjudication starts post-
 submission of Investigation Report. The propositions advanced by Google have
 no relevance in the present context and it needs no reiteration that an adjudicatory
 body has to return its findings independently in light of evidence and material
 available on record. As such, it is not necessary to delve into the aspect any further
 as the Commission has examined the evidence independently and findings have
 been arrived at on the basis of material on record. Having said that, it is clarified
 that nothing prevents the authorities from looking at the decisions given by
 counterpart agencies if the issues involved in the domestic proceedings are similar
 to those involved in other jurisdictions Secondly, Google itself admits that the
 development of its products as well as various agreements as well practices are Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 82 Public Version

 global in nature and therefore, it is futile to claim that the same are irrelevant. The
 reports of other agencies are not determinative but have persuasive value. The
 conclusions of the Commission are based on evidence available on record and
 after considering the specificities of the prevailing market conditions in India.
 Thirdly, acknowledging the similarity in issues, Google itself referred to decisions
 of foreign authorities in its submission. E.g., while contesting the market
 delineation, Google relied on Epic Games v. Apple (Epic Games v. Apple), United
 States District Court, Northern District of California, Case No. 4:20-cv-05640-
 YGR, September 10, 2021. 205. The Commission notes that Play Store is by far the most important app
 marketplace on the Android ecosystem. Play Store is significant from the point of
 view of smart mobile device users who consider this as a 'must have' app. The
 app developers perceive Play Store to be indispensable for reaching out to the
 entire spectrum of Android device users and the OEMs too perceive Play Store to
 be indispensable for the commercial success of their handsets. The dominance of
 Play Store inter alia stems from the strong indirect network effects that work in
 its favour, with its large user base on one side and a large number of app
 developers on the other side, who depend on Play Store to access these users and
 maximise their reach and revenue potential. These factors, in conjunction with
 Play Store's automatic update functionalities, its close integration with Google
 Play Services, lack of substitutability between android app store and other OS app
 stores, and high entry barriers lead to a reasonable conclusion that Google Play
 Store occupies a dominant position in the relevant market of app stores for
 Android OS in India. Even if the market definition nomenclature is considered
 from the app developer as well as user perspective i.e., as a distribution channel
 for apps, the Commission notes that listing apps on Google Play Store is
 indispensable for the app developers and they cannot afford to rely on any other
 mode of distribution to reach the entire spectrum of Android device users. Public Version

 C. Market for apps facilitating payments through UPI in India 206. Before adverting to the market concerning UPI, it would be apt to understand
 Unified Payments Interface ('UPI') in India. It is instructive to note here that the Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 ('PSS Act') has been enacted for the
 regulation and supervision of payment systems in India. Under the PSS Act, the
 RBI is the designated authority for authorizing various payment systems. The RBI
 has authorized various Payment System Operators to operate payment systems in
 the country, including the National Payments Corporation of India ('NPCI'),
 which is the umbrella organization that operates retail payment and settlement
 systems in India. 207. UPI was launched by the NPCI in 2016 and was promoted as an instant real-time
 payment system to facilitate inter-bank transactions on a mobile platform. UPI is
 a system that powers multiple bank accounts into a single mobile application (of
 any participating bank), merging several banking features, seamless fund routing
 & merchant payments into one hood. It also caters to the "Peer to Peer" collect
 request which can be scheduled and paid as per requirement and convenience.
 Furthermore, UPI offers a uniform architecture for enabling users with bank
 accounts to send and receive money instantaneously (through their mobile
 devices) by use of a single identifier (a UPI ID) and without having to share bank
 account details, while transferring money. The UPI ecosystem is designed for
 banks and only a banking entity can directly interact with the UPI switch.
 However, non-banking entities can also participate by partnering with a banking
 entity which is already on UPI platform, and developing their own APIs referred
 to as third party applications (apps) e.g., Paytm, PhonePe etc. Such entities who
 provide UPI services by partnering with banks, such as G-Pay, PhonePe, Amazon
 Pay, Paytm etc. are generally referred to as Third Party Application Providers
 ('TPAPs'). Public Version 208. In this relation, it is apt to mention here about the participant(s) in UPI ecosystem: 209. In relation to UPI, it is also noted that UPI transactions can be primarily done
 either in the push or pull form. In the push form, money is sent by the app user to
 a recipient and the process is initiated by the sender. Separately, under the pull
 form, money is requested by the recipient, who initiates the payment process. Relevant Market 210. The DG has examined substitutability between cash payment and digital payment
 as well as substitutability between UPI and other methods of digital payment
 (credit card, debit card, net banking, mobile wallet) for the delineation of relevant
 product market. Based on its examination, the DG has concluded that the relevant
 market in the instant case may be defined as 'market for apps facilitating payment
 through UPI in India'. 211. Google on the other hand has contested this market definition by the DG and
 claimed that this market is narrow and restrictive. It has been further averred that
 the market for digital payments ought to be broader which includes other forms
 of payments like credit & debit cards, mobile wallets, internet banking, etc.
 Google claims that its UPI app i.e., GPay competes with various other digital
 payment methods. As per Google, these services are substitutable when it comes
 to purchase of digital content on the Play Store. 212. The observations of the Commission in this respect are as follows: 213. As noted by the DG, cash-based payments are manual and prone to inefficiencies
 and fraud. Whereas digital payments with the development of information
 technology and the wide adoption of smart devices offer possibilities to simplify Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 86 Public Version

 the transactions. Digital payments are more secure as well as easier to handle as
 compared to cash payments. 214. Thus, the Commission concurs with the finding of the DG that digital payments
 and cash payments are not interchangeable. b) Substitutability between UPI and other methods of digital payment 215. The DG has succinctly brought on record the distinctive features of various digital
 payment methods vis-à-vis that of UPI apps. These are discussed below: 216. The differences between UPI and cards, as highlighted by the Investigation are
 summarised as: Public Version

 216.4. UPI permits the linking of multiple bank accounts into a single mobile app
 (of any participating bank or third party). In contrast, one credit and/or
 debit card is only linked to one bank account
 216.5. UPI payments are limited to India only, whereas card based payments can
 be used for payments globally. 217. In addition, the Commission notes that its relatively easier and almost
 instantaneous to register on UPI apps as compared to securing a credit card from
 bank. Further, it is very convenient for the users, to use UPI facility as compared
 to cards. Based on the foregoing reasoning, the Commission concurs with the DG
 that UPI enabled digital payments apps and debit/ credit card-based payments do
 not fall in the same market. UPI versus Net Banking 218. Net banking gives users electronic access to a variety of banking services. Money
 transfer services, access to fixed deposits/recurring deposits, online investment
 services, and administrative services including issuing of cheque books, lending
 facilities, debit and credit cards, and so on are among them. UPI-enabled digital
 payments, on the other hand, are distinct from net banking in that they do not offer
 a broad variety of banking services and are largely limited to conducting financial
 transfers. 219. There are various money transfer services through net banking e.g., National
 Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS),
 Immediate Payment Service (IMPS), etc. 220. A major difference revealed by the Investigation, between UPI and the money
 transfer services discussed above is the convenience and ease that UPI gives a Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 88 Public Version

 customer compared to the above. A short comparison between UPI and these
 money transfer services has been done below: UPI versus Mobile wallets: 225.2. Paytm also summarized the various benefits of UPI over other forms of
 digital payment in following words: 225.3. PhonePe described how the UPI is distinct from other modes of digital
 payment and listed its benefits. In its submission, detailed workflow
 adopted by users to make digital payment was elucidated along with
 limitations associated with each mode of digital payment in terms of funds
 transfer limits, frequency of transactions, disclosure of user data. The
 relevant extracts from the submission are reproduced below: • Unlike debit / credit cards, UPI payments do not require a
 physical card for making a payment at the merchant store.
 Further, no special equipment is needed at the merchant
 store for accepting UPI payments either. Payments
 through UPI can be made simply through mobile numbers
 or scanning a Quick Response ("QR") code at the
 merchant store, and there is no need to install any point of
 sale ("POS") terminal machinery, which can be fairly
 costly; credit / debit cards can only be linked to one bank account
 each. (26) UPI v. mobile wallets Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 93 Public Version

 • A 'mobile wallet' is a prepaid payment instrument which
 facilitates the purchase of goods and services from
 entities that accept that wallet. Mobile wallets require
 users to transfer money from their bank account into the
 wallet to be able to use it. UPI transfers happen directly
 between the banks; whereas wallet transactions are capped to (i) INR 10,000
 per month for non-KYC customers and (ii) INR 1 lakh per
 month for full KYC customers. portals / websites /mobile banking apps, whereas the UPI
 framework can also be accessed through third-party apps
 (i.e.,, TPAPs, as elaborated on below); • Net Banking facilitates a number of different payment
 methods such as Real Time Gross Settlement ("RTGS"),
 National Electronic Funds Transfer ("NEFT"), IMPS, etc.
 Whilst Net Banking provides a broader set of services /
 facilities, it takes more time to set up a new transaction
 than UPI; and
 • NEFT and RTGS transfers require the input of details of
 the payee's bank account number and other details, in
 comparison to UPI which works on the basis of a simple
 VPA. Additionally, transactions have a wait time of 30
 minutes for payments to new payees, which is not the case
 with UPI transfers. transaction requirement of INR 2 lakhs. This makes it very
 different and distinct as compared to UPI transactions;
 and Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 94 Public Version

 • UPI payments are much faster and can be utilised around
 the clock by users sending and receiving money, unlike
 RTGS which is routed through the RBI; transactions made through NEFT are settled in batches.
 Accordingly, in NEFT, any transaction initiated after a
 designated settlement/cut-off time would have to wait till
 the next designated settlement time. UPI, on the other
 hand, happens on a real time and continuous basis. Therefore, the two modes are not comparable. Net Banking IMPS: • To make a net banking IMPS transfer, one needs to have
 the particular app / website of the debiting bank account.
 In comparison, UPI is interoperable and multiple bank
 accounts can be linked to the same app; • Net Banking IMPS transactions work only if data on the
 Name, Bank Account, IFSC code, etc. of the payee are
 available, whereas UPI transactions can work only with
 VPAs; • Net Banking IMPS transactions have a wait time of 30
 minutes for payments to new payees, unlike UPI transfers
 which are instantaneous; and
 • Transaction fees / transfer charges for Net Banking IMPS
 transactions are higher than for UPI payments. (29) Therefore, as can be noted from above, UPI is distinct from
 other modes of digital payments from the perspective of users as
 well as other key stakeholders..." 225.4. Xiaomi differentiated UPI with other forms of digital payment in
 following table: 226. The Commission notes that UPI offers unique features viz. using virtual payment
 address compared to card payments, mobile wallets and net banking; functionality
 to interlink multiple bank accounts to single digital identity; UPI does not requires
 bank details of beneficiary but needs beneficiary's mobile number, QR code or
 VPA, etc. 227. In addition to the above, National Payments Corporation of India also enlisted
 benefits provided by UPI to different stakeholders i.e., banks, end-consumers and
 merchants. It was stated that UPI ecosystem enables more secure and quick Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 96 Public Version

 transactions through single click two factor authentication, no requirement to
 store consumer details, round the clock availability, quick grievance redressal
 mechanism, interoperability across platforms and feature to link multiple bank
 accounts to single digital identity. The relevant extracts from the submission are
 reproduced here under: 228. The Commission notes that Section 19(7) of the Act provides an indicative list of
 factors to determine the relevant product market, which include physical
 characteristics of the goods and services under consideration, amongst others. It
 is evident from the submissions of various parties as discussed in preceding
 paragraphs that though the intended use of different digital payment methods
 might be same, but the characteristics of UPI are different from that of other
 modes of digital payment. More specifically, it can be stated that payment through
 UPI Apps is not substitutable with other modes of digital payment because of
 following characteristics: In other words, if a customer has 2 bank accounts with 2 different banks,
 customer can register for UPI with any PSP bank and link all his bank
 accounts into one single UPI ID. In contrast, one credit/ debit card is only
 linked with one bank account. 228.3. Another important characteristic of UPI is presence of network effects. UPI
 is a multisided platform consisting of multiple stakeholders including end
 users, banks, merchants, UPI App developers etc. The user base of a UPI
 app determines the number of merchants which adopt it and offer payments
 through such an app, which conversely increases the number of users of the
 UPI app. This means that the activity and scale of one user group on the
 platform can influence the activity and scale of other user groups on the
 platform. 229. In relation to delineation of the relevant market and to understand the advantages
 offered by UPI over other digital payment methods, it is apt to refer to the
 exponential growth witnessed by UPI platform. To appreciate the same, it would
 be relevant to re-produce the related statistics: 230. The aforementioned graph13 shows that the value of UPI based digital payment
 from financial year 2017 to 2021 has seen a steep rise i.e., from INR 69.5 billion
 in FY 2017 to INR 41039.58 billion in FY 2021. Since April 2016, UPI has
 become synonymous to a rapid digital payment which has seen an exponential
 growth trajectory to cross over 200 cr transactions a month. This is further
 expected to grow 10x over the next 3 years14. In FY 2018-19, UPI accounted for
 17% of the total 31 billion digital transactions in the country. The next fiscal year
 saw UPI's share rising to more than 27% as it processed 12.5 billion transactions
 of the total 46 billion digital transactions. In FY 2020-21, UPI accounted for 40%
 of the total 55 billion digital transactions15. As of August 2021, UPI has 22+ crore
 users who did 3.5 billion financial transactions in August, aggregating to a
 settlement value of 6.39 lakh crore16. The same is represented graphically as
 under: 231. Based on the foregoing analysis, the Commission is of the view that relevant
 product market in the instant matter can be defined as 'market for apps facilitating
 payments through UPI', which is a unique relevant product market. 232. In relation to relevant geographic market, it is noted that conditions of competition
 for supply of UPI apps in homogenous across India including the regulatory
 framework. As a result, the Commission deems it appropriate to consider 'India'
 as the relevant geographic market for apps facilitating payments through UPI. 233. Therefore, in view of the above analysis it can be stated that the relevant market
 in the instant case may be defined as 'market for apps facilitating payment
 through UPI in India'. 234. To summarize, the Commission determines following five relevant markets in the
 present matter: 235. Further, the Commission also holds Google to be dominant in the first two
 relevant markets i.e., market for licensable OS for smart mobile devices in India
 and market for app store for Android smart mobile OS in India. 236. After delineation of the relevant market as well as determination of dominance of
 Google in these markets, the Commission now proceeds to examine the alleged
 conduct as to whether the same amounts to abuse of its dominant position by
 Google, in violation of Section 4 of the Act. Assessment of alleged abuse of dominant position by Google 237. The Commission notes that the instant case relates to the alleged abuse of
 dominant position by Google in its Play Store policies as well as its UPI app, in
 contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act. In terms of Section 4 of
 the Act, an enterprise or a group, enjoying a dominant position in a market, is
 prohibited from abusing its dominant position in the relevant market. Section 4(2) of the Act lists out various conducts which are stated to tantamount to abuse of
 dominant position. At this stage, it would be prudent to reiterate the provisions of
 Section 4(2), which reads as follows: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or
 discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or service referred
 to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale
 of goods (including predatory price) or service referred to in sub-clause (ii) shall not include such discriminatory condition or price which may be
 adopted to meet the competition; or Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 101 Public Version (b) limits or restricts-- (i) production of goods or provision of services or market therefor;
 or (ii) technical or scientific development relating to goods or services
 to the prejudice of consumers; or (c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market
 access in any manner; or (d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other
 parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or
 according to commercial usage, have no connection with the
 subject of such contracts; or (e) uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or
 protect, other relevant market. 238. Based on the allegations against Google, the DG has identified 3 different issues
 for determination i.e., whether Google has abused its dominant position or not in
 respect of each of such alleged conduct. Issue 1: Whether making the use of Google Play's billing system (GPBS),
 exclusive and mandatory by Google for App developers/owners for
 processing of payments for App and in-app purchases and charging 15-30%
 commission is violative of Section 4(2) of the Act? 239. The Informant in Case No. 07 of 2020 averred that Google's Payment Policy
 specifically provides that developers charging for apps and downloads from
 Google Play must use Google Play's payment system. The Payment Policy further
 provides that developers offering products within another category of app downloaded on Google Play must use Google Play In-app Billing as the method of payment. By making listing of an app on Play Store conditional on the app
 using Play Store's payment system and Google Play In-App Billing for charging
 their users, the Informant alleges that Google is imposing a "take it or leave it" 240. The Informant further averred that this condition has been "imposed" can be
 further demonstrated by the fact that the Play Store charges a 30% commission
 from app providers for allowing them to use the Play Store's payment system and
 Google Play In-App Billing. If the app providers had an option, they could have
 preferred using alternative payment aggregators which charge a much lower
 commission and are established and trusted names in the online payment universe.
 The Informant alleges that by making listing on Play Store conditional on the apps
 using Play Store's payment system and Google Play In-App Billing, Google has
 imposed an unfair condition on both sides of the platform, i.e., app providers as
 well as users. The condition imposed by Google is unfair to the app providers as
 it restricts their choice in terms of preferred payment partners and preferred modes
 of payment. The condition being imposed by Google is unfair to users as their
 choice regarding mode of payment is being restricted. 241. The Informants in Case Nos. 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 also made similar
 allegations i.e., (i) mandatory use of Google Play Billing System (GPBS); and (ii)
 charging high service fee of 15-30% from App developers. 242. The DG based on its investigation has concluded that conduct of Google amounts
 to violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i), Section 4(2)(a)(ii), Section
 4(2)(b), Section 4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. Google on the other hand
 has contested the findings of the DG. 243. The Commission has perused the Investigation Report, response of the Parties
 thereon and material available on record. The observations of the Commission on
 this issue are detailed in succeeding paragraphs. Public Version 244. At the outset, the Commission notes that for distributing an app through the
 Google Pay Store, an app developer is required to agree to the terms set out in the
 Developer Distribution Agreement (the DDA) and, under the DDA, the Developer
 Program Policies (the DPP). Further, if the app developers want to distribute paid
 apps or enable in-app purchases, they also need to agree with the Google
 Payments Terms of Service-Seller (IN). Therefore, following three main
 documents contain the terms and conditions which govern relationship between
 Google and App developers who want to distribute their paid Apps through
 Google Play Store or enable in-App purchases are: 245. The DDA is the principal agreement between the App developer and Google
 regarding distribution of Apps. Section 2 .1 of the DDA reads as under: 246. One of the primary allegations, in the present matter, is mandatory use of Google
 Play Billing System (GPBS) for distributing paid apps as well as in-app paid
 content by the app developers to the users. Google defines and describes the
 Google Play Billing System as: 247. GPBS is the proprietary billing system of Google. It is an App developer facing
 system whereby the App developers create account with Google. Further, Google
 remits App developers the payments collected from users of these Apps who (i)
 purchase the App from the Google Play Store; or (ii) make purchases of digital
 goods/services and/or subscriptions within the App. In the process, Google
 deducts its "service fee" or commission for facilitating this process of collecting
 payments from users and remitting to App developers. 248. The relevant extract of Google payment policy (DPP)18 for Google Play is as
 under: 249. Google Play's Payments Policy is a part of Google's mandatory Developer
 Program Policies and Developer Distribution Agreement which have to be agreed
 to by all app developers who want to list their app on the Play Store, without any
 scope for changes / negotiations. The DDA states that the agreement forms a
 legally binding contract between App developer and Google in relation to App
 developers to use of Google Play Store to distribute their Apps. The Google Play's
 Payment Policy sets out specific rules in relation to apps that are proposed to be
 distributed through the Play Store. As reproduced above, Google's Payment
 Policy specifically provides that, "developers charging for apps and downloads
 from Google Play must use Google Play's billing system...", (emphasis supplied).
 Thus, payments for all paid downloads and IAPs must be routed through GPBS,
 and alternative payment systems / processors cannot be used even if the app
 developer and the user would like to use an alternative payment system /
 processor. 250. Google's Payment Policy further states that IAPs include any payment for: (i)
 virtual game products, including coins, gems, extra lives or turns, special items or
 equipment, characters or avatars, additional levels or playtime; (ii) app
 functionality or content, such as the ad-free version of an app or new features not Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 106 Public Version

 available in the free version; (iii) subscription services, such as subscription for
 streaming music, videos, books, or other media services; digital publications,
 including when bundled with a physical edition; and social networking services;
 and (iv) cloud software products, including data storage services, business
 productivity software and financial management software.19 251. The Investigation has also revealed that Google strictly monitors compliance with
 the Developer Program Policies through a review process. At the time of
 submitting an app for review itself, app developers have to specify to Google
 whether they offer IAPs. 252. Thus, Google requires the App developers to exclusively and mandatorily use the
 Google Play's Billing System (GPBS) not only for receiving payments for Apps
 (and other digital products like audio, video, games) distributed/sold through the
 Google Play Store but also for certain in-app purchases i.e. purchases made by
 users of Apps after they have downloaded/purchased the App from the Play Store.
 Further, the mandatory and exclusive use of Google Play's Billing system has
 been clearly stated by Google in the page titled "Understanding Google Play's
 Payments Policy"20. The relevant part reads as under: etc.
 20 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10281818?hl=en
 21 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10281818#zippy Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 107 Public Version 253. Therefore, if app developers do not comply with Google's demand of using Play
 Store's payment system (i.e., Google's Play Store Billing and In-App Billing
 System), they are not permitted to list their apps on the Play Store, and therefore,
 will not be able to access potential customers using Android based smart devices,
 which is not a feasible option for any app developer. 254. Further, the app developers cannot not lead users to an alternative payment
 method other than GPBS within an app distributed on Google Play.22 In particular,
 (W)ithin an app, developers may not lead users to a payment method other than
 Google Play's billing system unless permitted by the Payments policy. This
 includes directly linking to a webpage that could lead to an alternate payment
 method or using language that encourages a user to purchase the digital item
 outside of the app.23 Relevant extracts of the Section 4 of Google Play's Payment
 Policy is reproduced hereunder: (Emphasis Supplied)

 22 Section 4 of Google Play's Payments policy, available at

 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9858738
 23 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10281818?hl=en. See Frequently asked

 questions and in particular 'Can I communicate with my users about alternative ways to pay?' Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 108 Public Version 255. Thus, the Investigation has revealed that in addition to imposing a mandatory
 obligation to use GPBS, Google also restricts the ability of app developers to
 inform consumers within an app of the ability to purchase in-app content
 elsewhere, such as on a website ('Anti-steering Provisions'). The Commission is
 of the view that app is the primary and, in most cases, only medium for the app
 developers to communicate with their users and as such, critical for app
 developers. The app developer should have freedom to choose their
 communication channel to interact with their users to promote and offer their
 services. Any restriction on app developers in this regard is an unfair imposition
 as it impede the ability of app developers to increase their usage/ membership. 256. After examining the various relevant clauses of the contractual arrangements
 between Google and app developers, the Investigation has thereafter examined
 the service fee charged by Google. The DG has noted that Google Play Store is
 working as an online marketplace platform for sale/distribution of Apps for end
 users of Android smartphones in India. In doing so, Google levies charges a
 onetime fee of $25 for onboarding/hosting Apps on its platform. It also charges
 the App developers fee on purchase of apps and in-app purchases ("Service Fee").
 Thus, hosting fee and Service Fee can essentially be seen as the price charged by
 Google Play Store for facilitating the sale/distribution on the platform. This
 Service Fee has been alleged to be unfair and discriminatory in the present case. 257. Service Fee is charged by Google from App developers who distribute either (a)
 paid Apps on the Google Play Store; and/or (b) charge for in-app purchases of
 digital goods or subscriptions. The Investigation has revealed that as on
 06.01.202224, this service fee is as under: However, w.e.f. 01.01.2022 - Google announced that from this date the
 service fee for all subscription products will be 15%. 258. Further, the policy update (announced on 16.03.2021 and applicable from
 01.07.2021), require App owners/developers to enroll in the 15% service fee tier
 in order to avail this discount of 15% on the 1st million dollars (USD) that they
 earn in a year.25 Also, the App developers are required to have an "Account
 Group" whereby all the Associated Developer Accounts will be notified to
 Google.26 Thus, if an App developer has more than one paid App or Apps
 containing in-app purchases, they will be considered to be part of one Account
 Group and accordingly the 1 million dollars (USD) will be calculated on the basis
 of the cumulative income of all the apps. 259. Google further reduced the service fee for apps with e-books and on demand
 music streaming services from 15% to 10%. However, in order to avail this
 discounted fee, the app owner has to fulfil the eligibility requirements as per "Play
 Media Experience Program".27

 25 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/112622?hl=en
 26 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10632485
 27 Sameer Samat (VP of Product Management, Android & Google Play), "Evolving our business model to

 address developer needs": https://blog.google/intl/en-in/products/evolving-our-business-model-address-
 developer-needs/ Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 110 Public Version 260. Therefore, the following points emerge with regards to service fee: Public Version

 S. Date of Relevant Issue and Remarks
 No Announceme
 . nt
 30.09.2021 and (ii) 30% service fee 2. 05.10.202029 Enforcement of mandatory use of GPBS extended
 till 31.03.2022 for developers based in India 3. 16.03.202130 Starting 01.07.2021, service fee reduced from
 30% to 15% for the first $1M (USD) revenue
 each developer earns every year. 4. 16.07.202131 (Overseas) Developers given an option to request

 to.html. Also, https://blog.google/intl/en-in/products/platforms/listening-to-developer-
 feedback-to/. Few extracts are as follows: Purnima Kochikar (Director of Business Development, Games & Applications, Google Play),
 "Google Play's billing system: Update": https://blog.google/intl/en-
 in/products/platforms/google-plays-billing-system-update/. Few relevant extracts are as follows: Sameer Samat (Vice President, Android and Google Play), "Boosting developer success on
 Google Play": https://blog.google/intl/en-in/products/platforms/boosting-developer-success-on-
 google/ . Few relevant extracts are as follows: Purnima Kochikar (VP, Play Partnerships), "Allowing developers to apply for more time to
 comply with Play Payments Policy": https://android- 6. 10.12.202133 Enforcement of mandatory use of GPBS extended
 till 31.10.2022 for Indian developers 262. Relevant excerpts from the announcement made on 10.12.2021 are as follows: Sameer Samat (VP of Product Management, Android & Google Play), "Evolving our business
 model to address developer needs": https://blog.google/intl/en-in/products/evolving-our-
 business-model-address-developer-needs/. Few relevant extracts are as follows: FAQs on payments policy page of Google,: https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-
 developer/answer/10281818#zippy=%2Cwhy-is-the-payments-policy-compliance-deadline-
 different-for-developers-in-india Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 113 Public Version

 grace period for any that needed to make changes to their apps. Based on
 developer feedback, we gave eligible developers the option to request
 an additional six months, giving them more than 18 months to bring their
 apps into compliance. We continue to work with developer partners to
 meet the evolving needs of our ecosystem. Starting June 1, 2022, any app that is still not compliant will be removed
 from Google Play. Developers in India have until October 31, 2022 to comply due to unique
 circumstances with the payments landscape in the country..." 263. Based on the above, the Commission notes that the payment policy of Google
 required app developers offering paid apps or in-app purchases (IAPs) to use
 GPBS mandatorily. However, the app developers who were using third party
 payment processors were given time till 31.10.2022 to shift to GPBS for these
 services. In other words, the app developers would not be allowed to use third
 party payment processors for paid apps or IAPs and they have to shift to GPBS
 compulsorily. 264. In this regard, it is pertinent to note that ADIF in its submissions stated that
 gaming apps are presently mandatorily required to use GPBS. ADIF also
 submitted a letter from an app developer in the gaming industry wherein the said
 app developer had stated that "...We use GPB as we have no other option but to
 use the same as we have been explicitly told by Google that we would be de-listed
 from the Play Store if we do not use their payment system as our apps are in the
 gaming category, and it is mandatory to use their billing system. Therefore, we
 have no option but to only have GPB as a payment method and thus, it is
 impossible for us to avoid the commission charged by Google on the GPB..."
 Google has also mentioned in its submissions that "...it had always been clear
 that gaming developers are required to use GPB for transactions on their Google
 Play-distributed games..." Google has also stated that "... ...". Based on these Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 114 Public Version

 statements, the Commission notes that though Google has extended the date for
 app developers to comply with its policy related to GPBS but gaming apps which
 represent significant portion of transactions on Play Store, were already required
 to mandatorily use GPBS. 265. The DG during its investigation has also examined changes introduced in the
 scope of its payment policy by Google over the years. For this purpose, the
 Investigation has examined all DDAs submitted by Google along with the
 Developer Program Policies (DPP) and transaction/Service Fee charged by
 Google prevalent at different points of time when Google revised the DDA. The
 Investigation has concluded that Google has gradually increased the scope of the
 mandatory requirement of use of its own payment/billing system (currently
 GPBS) by explicit additions in the policy. 266. The Commission notes that Google Play's Payments Policy which is a part of
 Google's mandatory Developer Program Policies, have to be agreed to by all App
 developers who want to list their app on the Play Store, without any scope for
 changes / negotiations. Google's Payment Policy specifically provides that
 developers charging for apps and downloads from Google Play must use Google
 Play's payment system, i.e., GPBS for both paid app downloads as well as IAPs.
 If App developers do not comply with Google's demand of using GPBS, they are
 not permitted to list their apps on the Play Store. 267. On account of the mandatory applicability of the GPBS, the App developers
 would not be able to use the payment processing system of their choice for
 facilitating app purchases and in-apps purchases of digital products. 268. As already noted, Google's Android is the most widely used smart device
 ecosystem in the country (with more than 90% coverage in terms of smart devices
 sold in a year) and Google's Play Store acts as the gatekeeper between app store Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 115 Public Version

 and the smart device user. As a result of its financial might and its control over
 the entire ecosystem, Google undoubtedly has a much stronger bargaining
 position vis-à-vis App developers. App developers and users have no bargaining
 power vis-à-vis Google and are forced to accept terms that deter legitimate
 competition and increase their costs of operation. The app developer has no choice
 but to agree to the terms and conditions unilaterally decided by Google, otherwise
 they will not be able to access a vast pool of potential Android users in India. The
 Commission is of the view that gatekeepers like Google should not use their un-
 assailable position to require the app developers, which are dependent on them,
 to use any of their additional or other service together with its core services viz.
 app store services. It detriments the app developers by reducing its ability to
 choose its business partners in respect of these additional or other services and
 also affects their ability to offer innovative solutions as they have to contend with
 what is being offered by the gatekeeper. 269. Further, the anti-steering provisions exacerbate the situation by prohibiting the
 app developers from directing the users towards third party payment processors
 or even to their own websites. The app developer by using third party payment
 processors may offer greater benefits and innovative features to the app users.
 Further, the app developers are also restrained from using language that
 encourages a user to purchase the digital item outside of the app by virtue of
 Anti-steering Provisions. The DG has also noted that the practices followed by
 Google, also results in restricting app users from benefiting from the discounts
 and cashbacks offered by banks and other financial institutions that could have
 been availed by users by using alternative payment processing systems. Thus, app
 developers which otherwise had option to use payment processor of their choice
 would have to use GPBS. Public Version

 Discriminatory Practices 270. The DG has also examined whether Google is also following discriminatory
 practices by not using GPBS and thus, the resultant service fee for its own
 applications. In this regard, relevant extracts form the submissions of Google are
 as follows: ... 11. As explained above, Google's own apps generally already use
 Google Play's billing system. Google will require those Google apps that
 do not already use Google Play's billing system to make the necessary
 updates. 271. In this regard, it is also relevant to note the submissions of ShareChat, the relevant
 extract of which is reproduced below: 272. Thus, ShareChat disclosed that Google discriminates by not implementing its
 policies for YouTube. In this regard, the Investigation has also examined
 agreements for availing their
 services for in-app purchases on . These agreements have been entered
 into between Google and the respective
 hus, instead of using GPBS, YouTube has directly engaged with third-
 party payment processors for processing the payments. It is further noted that
 YouTube is paying a fee of for processing payments as well as IAPs in
 respect of its own Apps, whereas by imposing a service fee of onto other
 apps, Google is putting its rivals at a disadvantage. Google in its submission has Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 118 Public Version

 also admitted that "... ..." Based on the same, it is noted that while YouTube has been given the liberty to
 use third party billing system and thereby, bypassing GPBS and the resulting
 applicable service fee of Google, the rivals are being continuously forced to use
 GPBS and pay a service fee of 15-30%. Thus, it is noted that Google has not
 subjected its own app to the conditions and service fee, as being forced upon the
 other apps. These discriminatory practices result in competitive disadvantage to
 the competitors of Google in the downstream market, by increasing their cost. 273. The discriminatory practices directly harms the app developers as it increases their
 costs and is exploitative for the App developers and App users in India. The App
 developers have two choices, either to absorb this increased cost or to pass on the
 increased cost on to the end users of their apps. If app developer absorbs the
 increased cost, it affects their margins and leaves lesser amount to be spent on
 research and development activity for improvement of the quality of their apps.
 Decrease in the quality of apps directly harms the consumers as they will get lower
 quality at same price. Moreover, lesser investment in innovation also affects the
 ability of App developers to effectively compete in the downstream markets. If
 the app developer chooses to pass-on the increased cost of apps to the app users
 that will directly harm the consumers as they have to pay higher price for the same
 services, consequently consumers will either reduce or stop using the apps. This
 may lead to exit of the apps from the market and thereby reduce competition in
 the Indian app economy. Access to Data 274. The Commission while directing the Investigation in the matter observed that
 "...it also needs to be seen whether Google would have access to data collected
 from the users of its downstream competitors which would enable it to improve its Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 119 Public Version

 own services. However, such competitors may not have access to this data for
 improvisation/innovation of their own app. This would result in a competitive
 advantage to Google over its competitors...". Accordingly, the DG has also
 examined as to whether access to data of downstream competitors by Google
 would give any competitive advantage to Google. 275. The DG during its Investigation has examined policies/ agreements which govern
 data collection and usage practices by Google. In this context, the Investigation
 has examined the payment processing services agreement executed between
 . It is noted that Google
 has access to different types of personal data of the users including the data related
 to

 ". 276. In this relation, it is also pertinent to refer to the relevant extract of the reply filed
 by Google, which is reproduced below: 17. Developers that distribute their apps on Play have access to the Play
 Console. This allows developers to easily upload their apps on Google Play
 (e.g., choosing distribution countries and distribution prices), and provides
 extensive analytics tools in real time around their app's performance,
 ratings, and how sales are developing. There is no restriction on the app
 analytics providers that developers can use to assess the performance of
 their apps. The majority of the data available to developers through the
 Play Console can be downloaded by the developer, and analysed using any Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 120 Public Version

 third party analytics provider of their choice, such as App Annie, or by the
 developer themselves. In addition, app developers can collect within their
 app user data for their own purposes and analyse that data on their own
 and/or outsource the analysis to third party providers. 18. Google collects certain statistics and data that are also shared in part
 with developers through the Play Console: 19. On the Play Console Policy Centre, Google publishes guidance for
 developers on the type of data they can access. As explained in this
 guidance, to protect users' privacy, the data made available to third party
 developers is typically made available on an aggregated or anonymized
 basis. 277. Google has further submitted that, 14. As explained on Google Play's support page "Share usage &
 diagnostics information with Google", if a user turns on usage and
 diagnostics, the device sends information to Google about what is working
 and what is not. For example, a device can send information like: 280.2. Relevant extract from the submission of Disney+hotstar, is as follows: 281. The Commission is of the view that by having control on the data, Google is in a
 position to put its competitors in a disadvantageous position in the downstream
 markets. An app developer who is selling its app through Google Play Store is not
 in a position to have access to the data generated by its own app. However, Google
 being in control of Android OS and Play Store is not only able to have control to
 the data which is primarily generated by a third-party app provider but also in a
 position to decide whether to share selectively or not to share the same with the
 App developers. The Commission is of the view that access to this user level
 transaction data would be useful for the app developers as they would be able to
 provide targeted offers and promotions based on this data. The Investigation has
 revealed that this data is not shared with the app developers in a transparent and
 equitable manner. The app developers can use this data to improve their offerings
 for the users. Whereas collection of transaction related data of another and
 competing apps, through GPBS, would enable Google to target users specifically
 for its own 'paid' apps. However, this would put other app developers (competing
 with Google's apps) at a significant disadvantage. Google would not have access
 to such payment data if IAPs and paid app downloads are processed through
 alternative payment solutions. The Commission also takes note of the submission
 made by ADIF that concerns get further exacerbated by Google's admission in the
 writ petition filed by it before the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court bearing WP No.
 9399/2022 wherein it states that some of the members of ADIF are its competitors. Public Version 282. The Commission is of the view that Google would not only have the ability to
 collect data but also incentive to use this data for its other verticals viz. creating
 consumer profiles and monetizing the same through search advertising services,
 other paid services offered by Google, identify and enter into new markets, etc.
 As pointed out by ADIF, Google uses this data to support its vast advertisement
 business by, among other things, selling access to the data back to the developers.
 The advertising revenue earned by Google through advertisements in Google Play
 is a testimony to the same. 283. Based on the foregoing analysis, the Commission notes that Google would have
 access to competitively significant data of various apps listed on Play Store. Usage
 of GPBS by these apps, further adds to collection of additional data points from
 the users. Access to this data set of the downstream competitors, will result in
 competitive advantage for Google's owned services. Google would be in a
 position to use this data to improve its services and better target the potential
 customers. On the other hand, the downstream competitors would not have access
 to the complete data set and thus, would suffer competitive harm. Settlement Period followed by Google 284. Another related issue examined by the DG is that of time taken by Google for
 settlement of payments to the App developers in India. The relevant extracts from
 the reply of Google, in this regard, are as follows: Public Version

 "...Q.2(xvi) In response to query 2(vi) sought vide notice dated
 24.06.2021 you have stated that the payout for Google Play developers
 are initiated on the 15th day of each month for previous month's
 sales. Please explain the rationale for the same. Also, provide copies
 of internal communication including emails, presentations, minutes
 of meetings related to the decision to use this timing for payment to
 app developers. Reply: 285. During investigation, various app developers have submitted in one form or the
 other that not only the commission rates charged by the other payment
 processor(s) in the range of 1-3% per transaction, but even the settlement period
 is shorter i.e., T+2 (and in some cases T+1). But when the same is compared with
 Google's terms and conditions, it becomes clear that settlement period is longer. 286. In this regard, the Investigation also examined the agreements of Google with
 payment aggregators in India, for processing of payments on Google Play. The
 Investigation has revealed that the payment aggregators are liable to settle
 payments to Google within from the date Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 127 Public Version

 of transaction. Further, 287. Thus, it is noted that the
 . However, Google
 makes the payments to the app developers only on 15th day of every month. It
 means, if a transaction for in-app purchase has taken place on an app on
 01.01.2022, then Google will make the payment to the app developer on
 15.02.2022 whereas the payment aggregator will process the payment and transfer
 the same to Google 288. Google contends that the developer facing billing system and the user facing
 infrastructure are two different products. However, the Commission notes that the
 GPBS as well as the payment infrastructure is being offered in an integrated
 manner through which money paid by the user reaches to the App developer after
 deductions by Google. By virtue of its conduct, Google retains control over the
 complete transaction as well as money involved in it and pays the App developers
 as per its own terms. The exercise of such control is noted to be detrimental to the
 App developers. 289. It is also noted from the submissions of various payment aggregators that as per
 the RBI guidelines, the payment settlement time period is generally T+1 to T+3
 days only. Thus, payment processing service providers take only 1 to 3 days for
 settlement of payments to App developers from the date of transaction the
 payment. The Investigation perused the RBI Guidelines dated 24.11.2009 for
 settlement of payments electronic payment transactions involving intermediaries.
 As per these guidelines, the payments to merchants which do not involve transfer
 of funds to nodal banks shall be effected within a maximum of T+2 settlement
 cycle (where T is defined as the day of intimation regarding the completion of Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 128 Public Version

 transaction). Further, all payments to merchants involving nodal banks shall be
 effected within a maximum of T+3 settlement cycle. 290. On the basis of foregoing analysis, it is noted that Google receives the payments
 within a shorter and strict deadline from the payment aggregators. However,
 Google fails to observe such strict timeline when it comes to making payment to
 app developers wherein the payments are released after a gap of 15 to 46 days
 from the day of the transaction. If the app developers would have freedom to
 choose a payment processor of their choice, they would be able to receive
 payments (after deducting payment processing charges) in much shorter time limit
 as prescribed by RBI. Notwithstanding, the Commission observes that Google has
 not offered any objective justification for its present practise of making payments
 to app developers on 15th of each month when Google itself get paid within 2-3
 days of the transaction. This unjust enrichment on the part of Google is found to
 be unfair for the app developers especially small app developers for whom regular
 and prompt cash flows from their users is critical. Google through its conduct is
 found to have unfairly benefitted at the expense of app developers. Denial of Market Access 291. The DG has also found that mandatory imposition of GPBS by Google for paid
 apps as well as IAPs amounts to denial of market access for other payment
 processors operating in the market and thus, violates Section 4(2)(c) of the Act.
 In this regard, the Commission notes that by virtue of imposition of GPBS, the
 app developers would be mandated to use Google's services for the processing of
 payment for paid apps and IAPs. Further, as already stated above, the anti-steering
 provisions of Google, forbid app developers from re-directing users to websites
 for payment outside the app environment. 292. In the absence of such policy of Google, the app developers can use other payment
 solutions or develop their own in-app payment processor to process such Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 129 Public Version

 transactions. There are various service providers (e.g., PayPal, JusPay and
 Razorpay, etc.) globally and in India, offering payment processing services to app
 developers. In absence of this mandatory requirement by Google, the App
 developers could have negotiated the terms and conditions with the payment
 service providers and benefitted through competition in the market for payment
 processing services for in-app payment transactions. 293. The Commission is of the view that the mandatory imposition of GPBS forecloses
 the opportunity for other payment processing service providers to serve the app
 developers in relation to the processing of payments for paid apps and IAPs. This
 would also discourage app developers from developing its own in-app payment
 processor. In this regard, it is apt to note the submission made by Disney Hotstar,
 which is extracted below: 294. In this context, it is important to note the submissions made by few payment
 aggregators, which are mentioned below: Therefore, if through this closed wall ecosystem wherein app
 developers are only allowed to process IAPs through the app store's
 own payments system and no other PGs, then PGs would lose all
 their app related business, as in any event in the case of paid app
 downloads, the engagement is between the app store and the user Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 130 Public Version

 wherein the app developer is not involved. While doing so, Google
 is benefitting from the hefty commissions that it earns from paid app
 downloads and IAPs (discussed in greater detail below)." (Emphasis Supplied)

 294.2. Razorpay has submitted that,
 "Google's policy change for Play Store, mandating that certain app
 categories would need to migrate to the Google Play billing system,
 would impact payment aggregators as online payment gateway
 aggregators would not be able to support such app developers, and
 transactions undertaken by them, affecting our revenue...". (Emphasis Supplied)

 294.3. Mobikwik has stated that,
 "Payments are collected from users of software applications (apps)
 via two modes namely; (a) payment collection system of the
 respective software application; and (b) Google Play's in-app
 billing system. We consider Google as a competitor for the payment
 mode described under sub point (a) as software applications have
 multiple payment partners...". (Emphasis Supplied)

 294.4. Infibeam Avenues has submitted that,
 "Yes, we consider Google (who collects payment from users of
 certain Apps) as our competitor.... Additionally we are processing
 UPI and Debit Cards on zero merchant discount rates (MDR) and
 Google in its billing policies has mentioned that it is charging 30%
 fees on transactions processed under play store; Google (who
 collects payment from users of certain Apps) has dominant position
 over Android OS and Google Play store; if fair competition isn't
 monitored in any industry it would lead to monopoly by one player
 and intern resulting to higher cost of digital products in India and
 all of the cost would be offloaded to the consumers.". (Emphasis Supplied) 295. Based on the data provided by Google, the Investigation has analyzed the impact
 of change in Google's policy on Indian app economy. It is noted that in the year
 2020, the number of apps which were using GPBS was only of the total
 apps which are either paid or contain in-app purchases. Therefore, around of Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 131 Public Version

 the apps which are either paid apps or contain in-app contents were either using
 an alternative third-party payment processing system or using their own
 proprietary systems. Google's decision of making GPBS mandatory, through
 enforcement of its policies, for app purchases and in-app purchases amounts to
 denial of market access to the third-party payment processing service providers
 as well as affect those apps which are using their own payment processing system.
 Further, these apps would also be deprived of commercial freedom to select
 payment processing partner of their choice. 296. Further, as already elaborated, Google's Play Store provides an un-parallel reach
 to the Android users, amongst all Android app store in India. The Play Store is
 thus a critical app distribution channel for app developers to reach to vast pool of
 Android users through a single window. It is the only viable distribution channel
 available to Android app developers in India. If a developer wants users to
 discover and download its app, that app must be on the Play Store. The Play
 Store's market share in combination with the network effects insulates it from
 competing Android app stores. In order to access this 'must have' distribution
 channel, the app developers would have to agree to the onerous conditions being
 imposed by Google viz. mandatory use of GPBS. Android app developers have
 no choice but to use this essential distribution channel to reach app users in India,
 giving Google the ability to impose restrictions and indulge in anti-competitive
 conduct such as requiring the exclusive use of GPBS. If the app developers do not
 agree to the policies of Google, they cannot list their apps on the Play Store and
 thus, denied access to the market. 297. The Investigation has further revealed that by virtue of various policy
 announcements by Google, various additional categories of apps will be required
 to only use the GPBS for IAPs (such as fitness, dating and education apps). This
 will further compound the harms caused to payment processing service providers
 because it further narrows the scope of the business that is available to them. In Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 132 Public Version

 this regard, the DG based on publicly available data has noted that fitness, dating,
 and education app markets in India are collectively valued at over USD 3 billion.
 Thus, with the mandatory imposition of GPBS, other payment processing service
 providers will lose out on this market opportunity, impacting their ability to carry
 out any innovations and product improvements, which can be catastrophic in such
 network-effect driven markets. Section 4(2)(c) must be interpreted broadly while
 keeping the Act's objectives and scheme in mind. Any action taken by a platform
 with a large network effect would have an impact on business users, preventing
 them from using other payment processors that offer better terms and conditions,
 thus constitutes an abuse. Market access is denied in any circumstance that denies
 a player the ability to participate effectively in the market so that competition is
 no longer decided on the basis of merit. 298. Google has persistently claimed that mandatory applicability of GPBS will affect
 only small number of apps in India. The relevant extract from the submission
 made by Google is as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 299. In this regard, it is noted that firstly, Google's above-mentioned statistic only
 includes impact on the apps distributed by Indian developers on Google Play
 Store. It does not include apps distributed by developers based outside India but
 offering their apps to Android users based in India. Secondly, on the basis of data
 provided by Google, the Investigation has revealed that in the year 2020, there
 were more than apps for which users transacted with Google play billing
 system in India. By no stretch of imagination, these many apps can be considered Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 133 Public Version

 to be insignificant. Millions of Indian users will be using these apps and
 transacting with them through GPBS. With the upcoming mandatory imposition
 of GPBS w.e.f. 01.11.2022, the said numbers are going to increase multi-fold.
 Thirdly, as already stated above, in the year 2020, the number of apps which were
 using GPBS was only of the total apps which are either paid or contain
 in-app purchases and thus, the remaining 80% of such apps, would be required to
 mandatorily use GPBS going forward. Averments of Google 300. Google has submitted that the requirement to use GPBS does not result in a denial
 of market access, limit technical development or amount to leveraging. The
 averments made by Google, while contesting the findings of the DG are
 summarized below: Google does not carry out payment processing in India. Google
 subcontracts with third parties to conduct the payment processing for
 payments made through Google Play. Further, payment processors can and
 do provide their services through Google Play. 300.4. Further, the Investigation Report errs as a legal matter because it fails to
 examine the relevant market for payment processors, which is much
 broader than the market for in-app purchases and paid apps. Rather, the
 Investigation Report simply proceeds on an unverified, unsupported
 assessment which artificially narrows the market. The relevant precedent
 also requires the DG to define the relevant market in which the denial is
 alleged in order to assess whether there has been any anti-competitive
 effect. Further, the requirement to use GPB for in-app purchases and paid
 apps cannot possibly deny market access to payment processors. In-app
 purchases and paid apps on Google Play would comprise an insignificant
 proportion of the total number and value of transactions on these surfaces. 300.5. There is no violation of Section 4(2)(b) of the Act because the requirement
 to use GPBS does not impact the developers' ability to improve their
 services and compete. Apart from unsubstantiated statements, the DG has
 not relied on any other evidence to support the allegations that competition
 has been distorted or innovation has been prevented by Google's collection
 and use of data from third party developers. The Report relies merely on
 speculative theories of what Google may do with data collected. 300.6. On Google Play, developers have access to all the necessary data to
 innovate and compete effectively. Google Play provides access tools,
 programs, and insights that helps developers reach and engage users so they
 can grow their apps and games. Google also provides information in Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 135 Public Version

 relation to user payment data. Google collects information regarding users'
 subscription cancellations, and developers are able to view summaries of
 this information - including their reasons for unsubscribing - through the
 Google Play Console. 300.7. There is no violation of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act because Google does not
 leverage its alleged dominance in the markets for licensable mobile OS and
 app stores for Android OS. As noted above, developers have several
 alternative options to distribute their apps on Android devices, if they do
 not agree with Google Play's policies and thus, do not wish to distribute
 through Google Play. 300.8. Google's link-out provisions contained in the Payments Policy do not
 operate as described in the Investigation Report. Google's link-out
 provisions contained in the Payments Policy, restrict apps' ability to "link-
 out" to payment systems other than GPBS, including by leading users from
 the app to other payment methods which serve several legitimate business
 purposes. However, the Investigation Report mischaracterizes these link-
 out provisions to suggest they prevent app developers from informing
 consumers of the ability to purchase in-app content elsewhere. 301. The Commission has perused various averments made by Google and its
 observations are elaborated in succeeding paragraphs. 302. The DG investigation brings out that Google Play's Payments Policy is a part of
 Google's mandatory Developer Program Policies and Developer Distribution
 Agreement, which have to be agreed to by all app developers who want to list
 their app on the Play Store, without any scope for changes/negotiations. Google
 strictly monitors compliance with the Developer Program Policies through a
 review process. At the time of submitting an app for the review itself, app Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 136 Public Version

 developers have to specify to Google whether they offer IAPs. Google requires
 the App developers to exclusively and mandatorily use Google Play's Billing
 System (GPBS) not only for receiving payments for Apps (and other digital
 products like audio, video, games) distributed/sold through the Google Play Store
 but also for certain in-app purchases i.e. purchases made by users of Apps after
 they have downloaded/purchased the App from the Play Store. Further, app
 developers cannot, within an app, provide users with a direct link to a webpage
 containing an alternative payment method or use language that encourages a user
 to purchase the digital item outside of the app. Further, by virtue of various policy
 announcements, additional categories of apps are required to only use the GPBS
 for IAPs (such as fitness, dating, and education apps). All IAPs on these apps
 would now be redirected to Google's own payment system. 303. Selling of in-app digital goods constitutes an important means for app developers
 to monetize their creations/innovations. However, for in-app digital goods to be
 distributed to purchasing users, developers must configure their apps so that all
 purchases of the digital goods go through Google's payment system, which
 processes the transactions. The imposed tying represents what the academic
 literature refers to as vertical integration in digital aftermarkets where
 monopolistic tech firms condition the use of their platform on the added use of
 other complementary software or services. Play Store constitutes the main
 distribution channel for apps on the Android mobile ecosystem, which allows its
 owners to capitalize on the apps brought to market. While there are other app
 stores that may be available on Android OS mobile devices, Play Store is by far
 the largest app marketplace connecting app developers with users on Android
 ecosystem. Google's control over Play Store, the critical gateway between app
 developers and users, gives it the power to dictate terms to app developers, and
 compel them to mandatorily use its own payment system. Public Version 304. Google claims that GPBS provides a safe billing system which helps Google to
 protect users. The Commission notes that these arguments of Google are
 completely devoid of merits primarily for two reasons. Firstly, various digital
 payment processing solution providers in the country, operating under the
 regulatory framework prescribed by Reserve Bank of India, are providing safe
 and secured channel for processing digital payments. Secondly, Google itself
 employs few of these payment processors at the backend to process payments in
 the Play Store and Google has not presented any evidence as to what additional
 security features are added by Google to make the systems more secure vis-à-vis
 that provided by the other payment processors. Thirdly, many app developers of
 physical goods/services are allowed by Google to use their own system for IAPs
 through these third-party payment processors. and in-fact prohibited from using
 GPBS. It clearly reflects the contradiction in the averments made by Google. 305. Besides, service fee imposed on apps that compete with Google's proprietary
 apps, disadvantages Google's rivals and distorts competition dynamic in the apps
 market. For instance, as the DG investigation brings out, the fee charged by
 Google on video distribution platforms like ShareChat has not been made
 applicable to YouTube, which materially and adversely affects the ability of video
 sharing platforms to compete with YouTube. Google claims that its developer
 policies are applicable to all apps on Google Play including its own apps.
 However, evidence on record, clearly establishes that YouTube is not following
 these policies and thus, not subjected to service fee of Google. 306. Google, thus, sets out rules for the Play Store that may implicitly exclude or
 discriminate against downstream competition. The delayed response of Google in
 introducing these billing rules which it "modestly" attributes it to its tardiness has
 a very self-serving motive. In the build up to the network effects Google required
 app developers to develop apps that will attract consumers to the app stores. Once
 Google also started developing these competing apps and entered into these Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 138 Public Version

 "complementor" markets, its incentives changed. Now Google and
 complementors became direct competitors, as explained above in the case of
 YouTube. Once the network effects became operational the Google's incentive
 was to squeeze maximum rents for itself from its direct competitors, drive their
 surplus to near zero. In case of single homing users, the complements are left with
 no bargaining power ex-post. The imposition of the use of GBPS is one such
 strategy to disadvantage those very complementors that who in the initial years
 added value to the platform and provided it a competitive edge prior to network
 effects and other barriers to entry kicked in. 307. In addition to making its rival apps less competitive through its discriminatory
 service fee regime, the tying policy unfairly adds to the competitive advantage of
 Google's own apps as by having its payment system process all in-app transaction,
 Google gets access to critical and competitively relevant transaction/consumer
 data of all its rival apps. Google being in control of Android OS and Play Store is
 not only able to have control to the data which is primarily generated by a third-
 party app provider but also in a position to decide whether to share selectively or
 not to share the same with the app developers. 308. ADIF in its submission states that Google uses its control of the Android Appstore
 ecosystem inter alia to confiscate the entire user relationship. This confiscation
 results in Google having access to a vast amount of extremely valuable user data
 that Google is then able to exploit. While, Google does get data on app downloads,
 but it does not get any financial data on transactions within the app done using
 non GBPS payment systems. With mandatory usage of GPBS, Google will get
 details of all transactions- amounts, frequency etc, across all apps, thus enhancing
 Google's ability to track, profile and target users and giving them an unfair
 advantage over all other companies. Public Version 309. Google claims that app developers have access to the necessary data to innovate
 and compete effectively. However, Google itself admitted that it collects
 information regarding users' subscription cancellations, and developers are able
 to view summaries of this information (emphasis added). Google further states
 that to protect users' privacy, individual payment information of users is not
 shared with developers. This includes information about the user's payment
 instruments, the user's name, and personal details such as their billing address,
 date of birth, etc. Google has submitted that when using Google Play to transact,
 users would not necessarily expect, or consent to, their private payment data being
 shared with third parties. However, the Commission notes that app developers are
 not third parties as is sought to be projected by Google as the users have already
 decided to transact with the concerned app developer. Google further states that
 specific data about individual users - is not necessary to compete. The
 Commission does not find any merit in this assertion of Google. In a data driven
 ecosystems, on the one hand, Google captures significant volume of data which
 can be potentially used for its various verticals (which has also not been denied
 by Google). However, at the same time, Google argues that this data is not
 necessary for the app developers to improve their products and compete
 effectively in the market. Thus, the assertion is contrary to its conduct. In any
 case, it is not for Google to unilaterally decide as to whether the data is required
 by app developers to improvise their services and offerings. Needless to add and
 reiterate, the obligations to protect privacy would apply to Google as well app
 developers. The privacy concerns can be adequately protected by suitable
 measures through contractual stipulations rather than blanket denial of access to
 data of their users. 310. As the DG investigation has brought out, since Google owns the Play store & also
 makes Google Play Billing as the default option to collect payments for
 subscription, now it has information of all Freemium & Premium users, Google
 has the ability and incentive to use this data to target the premium users with their Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 140 Public Version

 own product with a pricing aimed at attracting these users. The harm to
 competition can be two-fold, one disadvantaging rival apps with access to
 customer data that can allow it to outcompete them and second also further cement
 its position in the online target advertisement. 311. It is Google's argument that the fee charged is essentially the distribution
 fee/service fee for the services they provide to the apps for their in-app purchases
 and not as a transaction/bill processing fee. Therefore, the processing fee charged
 by the other payment gateways/ payment processing systems is not the right
 comparator to assess the reasonability of the fee charged by Google. It is observed
 that despite the service fee not being a bill payment processing fee, as claimed by
 Google, Google has started levying the fee simultaneously with the
 implementation of its policy of mandatory use of GPBS by the apps. It is only
 when the apps were asked to mandatorily use the GPBS is when the fee was also
 levied on them. The strategy to delink the two rather appears to be an afterthought
 in response to the regulatory developments in various jurisdictions. Be that as it
 may, if the commission/service fee is to be paid by the apps is indeed for the
 services that they avail from Google Play for in-app transactions, it was incumbent
 on Google to first provide a clear description of such services and the basis of
 determination of the fee amount to its users, i.e., the app developers. In the
 absence of the same, the sudden imposition of a commission which the users find
 exorbitant, appears to be an unfair imposition on them. Any deviation from a long-
 standing policy by a dominant platform which has attendant significant financial
 implication for its users and also the potential to distort competition in the
 downstream market ought to be objectively justified, which has not been done by
 Google in the instant case. Google has only provided a broad, vague and non-
 specific ground, i.e., the fee is charged for the bouquet of services that app
 developers get from Google for in-app purchases. On a holistic appreciation of
 the issue, the manner in which the policy of charging commission from apps has
 been implemented by Google appears to be an abuse of dominant position, which Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 141 Public Version

 was only possible owing to it being the indispensable trading partner for apps in
 the Android mobile ecosystem. 312. The Commission notes that Google has made the use of GPBS mandatory and
 exclusive for processing of payments for apps and in-app purchases. If the app
 developers do not comply with Google's demand of using GPBS, they are not
 permitted to list their apps on the Play Store and thus, would lose out the vast pool
 of potential customers in the form of Android users. Further, making access to the
 Play Store dependent on mandatory usage of GPBS for paid apps and in-app
 purchases is one sided and arbitrary and devoid of any legitimate business interest.
 The app developers are left bereft of the inherent choice to use payment processor
 of their liking from the open market. The Commission is of the view that the
 conduct of Google constitutes an imposition of unfair condition on app
 developers. It has also been found during investigation that Google is following
 discriminatory practices by not using GPBS for its own applications i.e.,
 YouTube. Therefore, the Commission concurs with the finding of the DG that
 Google has imposed unfair and discriminatory conditions in violation of the
 provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. This also amount to imposition of
 discriminatory pricing as Google's own apps i.e., YouTube is not paying the
 service fee as being imposed on other apps covered in the GPBS requirements.
 Thus, the Commission is of the view that Google has violated Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Act. 313. The Commission also concurs with the DG that Google's restrictions for
 mandatorily using GPBS also have significant negative effect on the
 improvements and innovative solutions that third party payment processors /
 aggregators would be able to bring to the market. It takes away the incentives and
 ability that such payment aggregators would have to innovate in payment
 solutions designed for IAPs, by restricting their entry into this market. Further,
 mandatory imposition of GPBS also discourages app developers from developing Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 142 Public Version

 its own in-app payment processor especially the free download apps that contain
 in app purchases in India. Moreover, as already elaborated earlier, Google
 provides a truncated access to the app developers to the trove of data collected
 from the apps/ Play Store, while retaining full control over such data for
 monetization on commercial basis. These practices distort competition and disturb
 innovation incentives as well as ability of the app developers to undertake
 technical development and innovate in their respective sphere of business
 activities. Thus, the Commission is of the view that the practices followed by
 Google tantamount to limiting technical development in the market for in-app
 payment processing services in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(ii) of the Act. 314. The Commission notes that Google's Payments Policy requiring mandatory and
 exclusive use of GPBS denies the payment aggregators/ payment gateways access
 to the market for processing of payments and allied services availed by app
 developers who sell in-app purchases and subscriptions of digital goods and
 services. Google claims that the DG has failed to examine the relevant market for
 payment processors, in which the denial is alleged in order to assess whether there
 has been any anti-competitive effect. Further, IAPs and paid apps on Google Play
 would comprise an insignificant proportion of the total number and value of
 transactions to establish any denial of market access. 315. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Competition Commission of India vs. Fast Way transmission Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 7215 of 2014), has interpreted
 denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c) widely, noting that denial of market
 access 'in any manner' would fall under its ambit, regardless of whether it is a
 denial of access to competitors or denial of access to players in vertically affected
 markets. The Commission notes that payment processors are placed vertically
 with Google in relation to providing Play Store services to the app developers and
 app users. In the present matter, the practices followed by Google, by virtue of its Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 143 Public Version

 dominant position in the app store for Android OS market, results in denial of
 market access to the payment processors in the vertically affected market. Google
 argues that DG has not defined the relevant market in which the denial is alleged
 in order to assess whether there has been any anti-competitive effect. In this
 regard, the Commission notes that there is no legal requirement to precisely define
 a separate relevant market where the impact of an abusive conduct takes place.
 Be that as it may, as already stated above, the dominant position in the app store
 market has been abused to cause denial to payment processors in general. This is
 sufficient to give a finding under Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. Further, as already
 stated, access to Play Store is dependent on agreeing to use GPBS and thus, app
 developer would lose access to market, if it does not agree to mandatory use of
 his GPBS. Thus, the Commission finds that the practices followed by Google
 results in denial of market access for payment aggregators as well as app
 developers, in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. 316. The Commission further notes that by charging high fee from the competing apps
 and not charging from its own apps Google is able to increase the cost of its
 competitors in the downstream markets. Further, by having control on the data,
 Google is in a position to put its competitors in a disadvantageous position in the
 downstream markets. Moreover, unlike the industry practice of making payment
 in 2-3 days, Google provide itself a leeway to make the payment to the App
 developers after a gap of 15 to 46 days from the date of the transaction. This
 conduct of Google also put the competing apps in the downstream market in
 disadvantageous position (as already discussed) 317. Google claims that app developers have several alternative options to distribute
 their apps on Android devices, if they do not agree with Google Play's policies
 and thus do not wish to distribute through Google Play. The Commission is of the
 view that these theoretical possibilities of alternative distribution channels for the
 app developers are not substitutable with app stores for various reasons, as Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 144 Public Version

 discussed supra. Therefore, the app developers are dependent to Google to access
 the users on its platform. Accordingly, there is no merit in the assertions made by
 Google in this regard. Accordingly, the Commission is of the view that the
 practices followed by Google results in leveraging its dominance in market for
 licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android OS, to protect its position in the
 downstream markets, in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 318. To summarize, the Commission finds that Google has violated the provisions of
 Section 4(2)(a)(i), Section 4(2)(a)(ii), Section 4(2)(b)(ii), Section 4(2)(c) and Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. Unfair/ Excessive Pricing 319. The DG after its Investigation has also found that Google imposes unfair price
 (i.e., 15-30% service fee), in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of
 the Act. The observations of the DG, in this regard, are summarized below: 319.4. As compared to Google, many payment service providers in India charge a
 fee within a range of 0-3% only which is levied on per transaction basis and
 the same varies as per the method/form of payment used. E.g., when the
 payment transaction is made through a credit card or debit card or net
 banking, the transaction fee charged by the Payment Service Providers
 differs in each case. In case of payments processed through UPI, the fee is
 0%. 319.5. Therefore, the service fee charged by Google for providing the payment
 processing services is exorbitantly higher than the fee charged by other
 players for the competing services in Indian market. 319.6. Google doesn't provide any additional service to App developers which
 have in-app purchase option. Thus, Google is charging service fee without
 providing any additional services to the App developers. 319.7. Service fee imposed on App developers by Google is not negotiated. 319.8. Google is able to charge exorbitantly high fee from App developers because
 of unavoidable dependence of App developers on Play Store for distribution
 of their apps to Android users in India. 319.9. Accordingly, the DG found that charging of 15%-30% fee by Google is
 excessive and therefore unfair in terms of Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Act. Public Version 320. Google on the other hand has contested the findings of the DG. The arguments
 advanced by Google are summarized below: Payment processors facilitate financial transactions between users and
 businesses through a variety of forms of payment. By contrast, Google Play
 offers payment processing as one among hundreds of services that help
 developers create, distribute, and monetize their apps. Payment processing
 costs account for only a small proportion of Google Play's service fee.
 Google Play is able to provide developers and users with its feature-rich
 distribution platform precisely because the service fee covers much more
 than mere payment processing. 320.2. As a digital storefront, Google Play provides space and support for
 developers to develop, optimize, and distribute their apps, alongside a
 checkout service to allow users to purchase, and developers to charge for,
 certain products. In turn, Google covers its investment in Google Play
 primarily by charging a service fee when developers sell apps, in-app
 content, or subscriptions for digital goods and services. Google Play
 charges, and is entitled to charge, for the hundreds of services and the value
 it provides. 320.3. Developers that are subject to a service fee pay a proportionate contribution
 to the maintenance of the platform and the services that Google Play
 provides. This in turn ensures that smaller developers are not disadvantaged
 by having to pay a proportionately higher amount than larger, established
 developers. Public Version

 320.4. Under competition law, unfair pricing is prohibited where the price charged
 is either excessive or predatory. Further, to establish excessive and
 predatory pricing, it must be shown that the fee has had an adverse effect
 on competition. The DG did not satisfy the relevant legal standard and
 failed to present sufficient evidence to establish that Google Play's service
 fee is excessive. 320.5. It would be highly inappropriate - and inconsistent with its previous
 decisions - if the Commission sought to override the service fee model
 determined by the market and substitute its own judgment as to what the
 Google Play service fee model ought to be. This would amount to the
 Commission acting as a price-setting regulator, which it has consistently
 found is not its role. 320.6. Google Play has adopted a fee structure that is fair, reasonable and
 competitive with other digital content distribution channels, and is intended
 to maximize the benefits to all stakeholders in the Google Play ecosystem.
 Under Google Play's fee structure, the overwhelming majority of
 developers (97%) pay only a nominal registration fee of USD 25 to access
 Google Play. 320.7. Google charges a service fee only when developers charge users a price for
 apps downloaded through Google Play or in-app purchases of digital
 content in apps downloaded through Google Play. This structure allows
 developers to avoid up-front costs when distributing their apps on Google
 Play, and aligns Google's success with the developers' success, in that
 Google only receives a fee when app developers generate revenue. Through
 this business model, the majority of developers (especially
 new developers trying to build a user base) can access Google Play's app Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 148 Public Version

 development tools, the distribution channel and the broader ecosystem for
 free. 320.8. Only 3% of developers on Google Play are subject to a service fee. Moreover, out of those 3%, 99% are eligible for a service fee of 15% or
 less. Even where it arises, the service fee represents a small percentage
 (between 10 and 30%) of the price the developer decides to charge. The
 only developers required to pay a fee of 30% earn more than USD 1 million
 per year, which based on Google's estimates, would be relevant for 321. Both the Informants have supported the abovementioned findings of the DG and
 have inter alia as under: 321.2. By relying on Google's arguments, it is expressly unfair and discriminatory
 that while Google claims to be charging a service fee for the services that it
 is rendering via Google Play Store, only 3% of the apps that provide digital
 goods and services are required to pay the excessive service fee of 30% of Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 149 Public Version

 the transaction value in order for Google to recover the costs it has incurred
 to develop and maintain the Play Store and for providing these very services. 321.3. The 97% of developers (including well-known applications like Uber, Ola,
 Zomato, Swiggy, and MMT, among others) have access to the same services
 and simply have to pay a one-time registration fee of USD 25 to host/list on
 Google's platform. The fact that these 97% of apps do not require GPBS in
 order to function and the remaining 3% of apps do, is the only distinction
 between them. 321.4. Google itself acknowledges in the Reply that only a very small proportion
 of the service fee for Google Play is ascribable towards the costs of
 processing payments. The other services offered by Google Play and GPBS
 account for the majority of the service fee. This alone demonstrates that (i)
 the other services provided by Google are unrelated to payment processing
 and are thus used by all developers; and (ii) the fee of 30% is ex facie
 unreasonable and excessive given that the cost of payment processing
 comprises a minor proportion of the total fee. 321.5. By requiring only 3% of apps to subsidize all other apps on the Play Store
 as well as Google's costs for operating the entire Play Store, Google imposes
 an unfair, discriminatory, and unlawful fee structure on app developers
 offering digital goods/services. 322. Another connected issue highlighted by Match Group in its submission is that of
 selection of category of apps on which service fee is imposed by Google. As
 already stated, service fee of Google is applicable on apps offering digital content.
 Match Group in this regard has submitted that Google's distinction between apps
 offering digital content in comparison to those offering physical goods or services
 is arbitrary. Ride sharing apps such as Uber and Ola, offer a digital platform Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 150 Public Version

 connecting two sets of users i.e., a rider and a driver. Google considers these as
 physical goods / services and permits them to use alternative payment solutions,
 although Uber or Ola themselves are not providing the cab service. Google
 however classifies dating services, such as those provided by the Match's
 portfolio brands, as digital goods / services. Both dating and ridesharing apps,
 however, share the same fundamental purpose, i.e., matching two people online
 to meet in the real world for an offline interaction. The distinction between the
 two is therefore inherently arbitrary. The Commission notes that there are multiple
 category of apps which are subjected to service fee. Further, within these apps,
 the service fee varies based on the type of service fee offered by the app. However,
 as alleged by the Informants, there seems to be ambiguity and not adequate
 transparency and justification for differential treatment accorded to apps by
 Google leaving it susceptible to discrimination. 323. The Commission has carefully perused the findings of the DG which are
 supported by the Informants as well as rival submission of Google. The
 Commission notes India has one of the most robust digital and start-up ecosystems
 in the world and the same has resulted in rapid digitalization of each and every
 aspect of the economy. Smart mobile devices have proved to be a gamechanger
 in this process wherein not only the business activities/ processes have been
 entirely overhauled but also the delivery of Government services has seen a
 revolutionary transformation. Any hindrance in this space, by technology players
 by virtue of their gatekeeper position, is likely to affect the state of competition,
 innovation incentives, and entrepreneurship. 324. Based on the information available on record, the Commission further notes that
 more than Indian app developers are currently using GPBS and with
 mandatory imposition of GPBS going forward, this number is only going to grow.
 Considering, the gatekeeper role played by Google in the Android ecosystem, any
 unfair and discriminatory conduct on its part can prove to be detrimental to the Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 151 Public Version

 growth of the small app developers as well as the flourishing digital economy in
 India. 325. Google has submitted that about 97% app developers pay only a nominal
 registration fee of USD 25 to access Google Play, whereas only 3% of developers
 on Google Play are subject to a service fee. Even with-in this 3%, a limited
 number of apps are subjected to a service fee of 30% and others pay a service fee
 of 10% of 15% depending on various parameters. Going by these assertions of
 Google, it is noted that the monetization model of Google is based on cross-
 subsidization by Google where the 3% of the apps offering paid apps or IAPs are
 made to bear the entire cost of the Play Store, even though all the apps are using
 similar services of the Play Store. Therefore, the question to be determined is
 whether it is reasonable and fair for these 3% of the apps to bear the 100% cost of
 the Play Store. In the same vein, the Commission also notes that amongst these
 97% are those apps also, which have significant business operations but are not
 contributing towards recoupment of Play Store costs, directly through service fee.
 The Commission also notes that Google has other revenue streams also from the
 'free apps' listed on Play Store, in the form of advertisement related revenue
 earned by Google from the apps hosted on Play Store and otherwise. These
 revenue streams are also contributing towards recoupment of the costs associated
 with Play Store and Android ecosystem, in addition to the service fee. The
 determination of issues at hand requires examination of all these aspects. 326. Be that as it may, the Commission is of the view that in general any conditions
 (including price related conditions) imposed on business users, by the gatekeepers
 or platform operators, should be fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory. The
 pricing and other general conditions should not grant any benefit on the
 gatekeeper which is disproportionate to the service provided by the gatekeeper to
 business users. Public Version 327. Based on the foregoing, the Commission is of the view that information available
 on record is not sufficient to give a finding on the monetization model, as sketched
 supra, followed by Google. Therefore, the Commission is not inclined to give any
 finding on this aspect, at this stage. Google is, however, directed, to ensure that
 its policies are in alignment with the aforesaid principles given the special
 responsibilities cast upon it being a dominant entity holding the position of a
 gatekeeper in the Android ecosystem. Issue 2: Whether exclusion of other UPI apps/mobile wallets as effective
 payment options on Play Store is unfair and/or discriminatory as per Section
 4(2) of the Act? 328. It was alleged that Google through its Play Store is differentiating between Google
 Pay and other apps facilitating payment through UPI, such as, BHIM, Paytm,
 PhonePe, etc. by only allowing its own payment offering i.e., Google Pay on its
 platform. It was averred by the Informant that UPI as a system allows
 interoperability between different apps which means that a person with a HDFC,
 Paytm or PhonePe UPI ID will also be able to pay through Google Pay for a
 transaction in the Play Store, but the transaction will be inconvenient as compared
 to transacting with a Google Pay UPI ID. 329. The Commission after examining the allegations of the Informant and rival
 submissions of Google, directed an investigation on this aspect as well. The
 relevant excerpts from the Order of the Commission passed under Section 26(1) of the Act in the instant matter, are as follows: (Emphasis added) 330. Thus, during the course of making a prima facie finding, it was revealed that
 Google Pay has been integrated with intent flow methodology whereas other UPI
 apps can be used through collect flow methodology. In this context, the DG
 formulated following issues for examination: 331. The DG based on its examination has concluded that Google has excluded other
 UPI apps as effective payment option on the Google play Store. Google follows
 a discriminatory approach towards other UPI apps, while making payment on
 Google play Store. Google Payments Platform enabled the intent flow with the
 Google Pay UPI App. Whereas, other UPIs were integrated with more Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 154 Public Version

 cumbersome collect flow method for payment on Google Play. The implication
 of the same was that Google favoured its own UPI App to the disadvantage of
 other competing UPI Apps. The preference to its own UPI App is evident from
 data that although Google Pay UPI App's market share in the overall market in
 India is not very high but so far as the UPI payment on Play Store is concerned
 the Google Pay UPI App has the largest market share. Therefore, Google is
 imposing unfair and discriminatory conditions in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. Moreover, Google's conduct was also found to be
 resulting in denial of market access to competing UPI apps since the market for
 UPI enabled digital payment apps is multi-sided, and the network effects will lead
 to a situation where Google Pay's competitors will be completely excluded from
 the market in the long run. Such conduct amounts to violation of the provisions
 of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. Further, being the gateway to Android smartphones
 due to dominance in the markets for licensable mobile OS and app stores for
 Android OS, Google is uniquely placed to (and is) leveraging its dominance in
 favour of Google Pay UPI App in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of
 the Act. Google on the other hand has contested the findings of the DG. 332. The Commission has considered the findings of the DG along with the rebuttals
 of the same by Google. The observations of the Commission are elaborated in
 succeeding paragraphs. 333. In order to assess the allegations in the matter, it is important to understand the
 differences between two methodologies used for integrating UPI apps in a
 payment platform. The DG has succinctly brought on record the differences
 between intent-flow and collect-flow methodology of payments on UPI. In this
 context, it would be useful to refer to reply filed by NPCI, wherein it has
 differentiated collect flow and intent flow technology. The relevant extracts of the
 reply of NPCI are reproduced below: 334. Further, the differences in the two methodologies can also be tabulated in the
 following manner (on the basis of Information provided by NPCI): Public Version

 Sr.
 Activity Intent Flow Collect Flow
 No. 3. 4. 5. 6. Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 157 Public Version 335. The Investigation has revealed that intent flow technology is far superior and user
 friendly than collect flow technology, with intent flow offering significant
 advantages to both customers and merchants. The customers need not remember
 or enter their lengthy, alphanumerical VPA; don't have to switch to push/SMS
 notifications; no longer have to shuffle between three apps/services (merchant
 app, SMS, UPI app) to complete a transaction. Thus, this ease of making payments
 results in an optimal user experience for the customer. 336. The DG has also observed that the success rate with the intent flow methodology
 is higher, largely on account of the benefits described above, but also because
 there is lower latency34 compared to the collect flow methodology. Here, it is
 relevant to mention that the collect flow is a broken chain of steps which requires
 that the customer actively engage with several, disconnected applications to
 manually complete a purchase. Further, the lack of integration of available UPI
 applications with the merchant's application/website means that there is a delay
 between when a customer enters their VPA, and a collect request is received on
 the corresponding UPI application. Often, this delay is exacerbated by the time it
 takes for the merchant's website/application to identify and process the entered
 VPA and for the Bank's Application Programming Interface (API) to validate the
 VPA before initiating the UPI collect payment. Whereas in intent flow, the latency
 is much lower because the transaction is processed as a seamless, unbroken chain
 of steps. The technological integrations and automatic redirections allow
 customers to complete the purchase faster. The integration of UPI applications
 into the merchant's application/website also means that the time between a

 34 Latency is the delay between a user's action and an application's response to that action. Latency
 is extremely determinative of consumer behaviour in that higher latency leads the consumer to
 abandon the internet related activity and lower latency, i.e., quicker response times encourages the
 consumer to follow through with the internet related activity. For example, an extra 0.5 seconds in
 search page generation time dropped traffic by 20%. A broker could lose $4 million in revenues
 per millisecond if their electronic trading platform is 5 milliseconds behind the competition.
 Available at https://razorpay.com/blog/upi-collect-razorpay-business-growth/. Public Version

 customer selecting their preferred UPI application and the redirection to that
 application to facilitate payment is only a few seconds. Thus, the intent flow
 method inherently has a lower latency and therefore, higher conversion rates for
 merchants. 337. The Investigation has also presented the difference between the two
 methodologies through following screenshots which portray the number of steps
 that are required to complete the purchase transaction on Google Play, while,
 using UPI app supporting intent flow i.e., Google Pay UPI app vis-à-vis an app
 supporting only collect function i.e., other UPI Apps. Intent Flow Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 159 Public Version
 Collect Flow 338. It is noted from the above screenshots that paying for an app on the Play Store's
 payment page with a non- Google Pay app is inconvenient, involves more steps,
 and the user also has to change forums/ apps (i.e., switch from Play Store to the
 other app (for instance Paytm app). Payment through a Google Pay UPI ID has
 deliberately been made much faster, simpler and does not require the user to
 switch between forums/apps. The Investigation has further revealed that this
 situation would be further aggravated in case of in-app purchases (IAPs) as the
 user will have to change three forums i.e., the app, the Play Store's payment page
 and the UPI app. 339. In this regard, it is noted that in the year 2019, of the UPI transactions in
 Play Store ware carried on through GPay UPI App, while and of
 such transaction were carried out using PhonePe and Paytm UPI Apps,
 respectively. Whereas, in year 2020, of the UPI transaction in Play Store
 in the year 2018 was carried on through GPay UPI App, while and
 of such transaction were carried out using PhonePe and Paytm UPI Apps,
 respectively. Whereas, in the overall market of UPI apps, PhonePe has the largest Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 160 Public Version

 market share with a market share of 46.04%, followed by Google Pay and Paytm
 having market share 34% and 11.63%, respectively (in terms of volume of
 transactions).35 340. From the above-mentioned comparative analysis, it is noted that although Google
 Pay UPI app does not have largest market share in overall UPI payment market
 in India but so far as the UPI Payment on Play Store is concerned, the Google Pay
 UPI app has the largest market share. Thus, Google Pay UPI app have a clear
 competitive advantage on the Play Store through use of intent-flow methodology
 for its own App and using collect-flow methodology for other UPI Apps. 341. The Investigation has further revealed that in 2019 and 2020, the role of UPI in
 the total payments processed on the Play Store has increased over the previous
 years. Thus, UPI platform
 is being increasingly used for transacting on Play Store. 342. Google has not contested that intent flow integration involves fewer steps but has
 contested the finding of violation of various provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act.
 Various averments of Google are summarised below: The Investigation Report is therefore
 wrong to allege Google discriminated against third party UPI apps by Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 162 Public Version

 actively refusing to support such apps on intent, or actively requiring
 such apps to use collect

 342.2. As per Google, in order to establish an infringement of the Act, the
 Investigation Report must have demonstrated that Google's alleged conduct
 had anticompetitive effects on rival UPI apps. The Report finds that GPay's
 share of UPI payments on Google Play was higher than its share of overall
 UPI payments, which the Report finds was "clearly arising from its
 [Google] giving preference to its own UPI App [in Google Play]". The
 Report is wrong to draw such a conclusion and the same is based on mere
 inference. There may have been many other reasons why GPay was more
 frequently used on Google Play than other UPI apps (e.g., users may have
 trusted that GPay would be as safe and secure as Google's other services in
 Google Play). The Report cannot assume that this was because of GPay's
 integration with the intent flow (without providing correlating evidence,
 which it does not). 342.3. The Investigation Report's conclusion (that GPay's integration with the
 intent flow in Google Play was driving more users to use GPay over rival
 UPI apps) is directly undermined by the evidence and data provided. 342.4. The Investigation Report fails to show that Google's conduct had an effect
 outside Google Play: Public Version

 342.4.2. The DG's case relies on the notion that network effects will drive
 switching to GPay and marginalise its rivals. However, Google claims
 that that there is no evidence of such network effects occurring in
 practice, or that GPay has derived any advantage over rivals from the
 conduct. GPay's share of overall UPI transactions has actually
 declined from 2020 to today (from around 44% to 35%), and other
 UPI apps are flourishing. Further, in any event, the architecture of the
 UPI system minimizes the potential for network effects. The
 interoperability specifications set out by the NPCI mean that any UPI
 user can transact with any other UPI user. This means that no one app
 will become more popular than others simply because it has more
 users. Therefore, even assuming that Google's conduct was to
 increase user adoption of GPay (which it has not), a given merchant
 using, for example, PhonePe could still accept a UPI payment from
 GPay - and would therefore have no incentive to switch to GPay to
 transact with those GPay users. 343. The Commission has perused the detailed submissions made by Google and the
 observations of the Commission are elaborated in succeeding paragraphs. 344. Google has asserted that
 The
 Commission is of the view that these assertions of Google are untenable and notes
 that all the UPI apps operating in the country are providing similar functionality
 and therefore, Google cannot apply different standards for its own app vis-à-vis
 other competing apps. The classifications criteria being advanced by Google i.e.,
 first party app and a third-party app is not a reasonable classification in terms of Section 4(2)(a) of the Act. Google being a dominant player in the app store for
 Android OS, has a special responsibility that access to its platform are available
 at non-discriminatory terms for all trading partners. Simply because, Google pay Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 164 Public Version

 UPI app is an in-house app, does not grant Google any right to self-preference and
 offer dissimilar treatment to other competing UPI apps. The Commission is of the
 view that the justification advanced by Google and the classification criterion for
 discrimination is wholly arbitrary, artificial and evasive. It only seems to be an
 afterthought on the part of Google. 345. Instead of relying on any evidence, Google has simply assumed
 Further reliance placed by Google on the
 fact that it was in compliance with NPCI guidelines by allowing integration to
 other competing UPI apps through collect flow is also misconceived. NPCI as the
 umbrella organization has prescribed certain norms for integration but it is not the
 case of Google that NPCI guidelines restricted Google from offering intent flow
 integration to the competing apps. Google could have very well provided
 integration following intent flow methodology in view of the better experience.
 However, Google followed differential treatment strategy to gain competitive
 edge over its rivals. Moreover, it is also futile to claim that
 The Commission is
 of the view that Google being a dominant player in the app store for Android OS,
 should exhibit a more responsible behaviour by providing a level playing field to
 all trading partners including its own applications and not to promote them at the
 expense of others. The competitive edge secured by Google's UPI app has been
 sufficiently demonstrated. 346. Google also claims that in order to establish an infringement of the Act, the
 Investigation Report must have demonstrated that Google's alleged conduct had
 anticompetitive effects on rival UPI apps. In this regard, the Commission notes
 that under the scheme of the Act, the Commission is, amongst others, obligated
 "to prevent" practices having adverse effect on competition. This is clearly borne
 out from the long title to the Act, which reads as under: 347. In view of the above regulatory framework as provided under the Act, the
 Commission has carefully perused the provisions of Section 4 of the Act and on a
 holistic consideration thereof, it is observed that "dominant position" under the
 Act has been defined as meaning a position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise,
 in the relevant market which enables it to operate independently of competitive
 forces or to affect its competitors or consumers in its favour. Thus, once an entity
 is found to be dominant in the relevant market, the Act recognizes its ability to
 adversely affect competition in the market unilaterally through its conducts. As
 such, the dominant enterprise is clothed with a special responsibility not to indulge
 in the conducts which are enumerated in Section 4(2) of the Act. Resultantly, once
 a dominant undertaking is found to have indulged in any of the acts provided in Section 4(2) of the Act, the contravention of the Act stands established. This is
 further evident from the phraseology used in Section 4(2) of the Act which, inter
 alia, provides that there shall be an abuse of dominant position if an enterprise
 directly or indirectly "imposes" unfair or discriminatory condition/ price in
 purchase or sale of goods or services. The moment there is any imposition of any
 unfair or discriminatory condition by a dominant player, the statutory prohibitions
 shall trigger. The same is true for other instances of abuse as enshrined in Section
 4(2) of the Act as well and the same also have to be read in this manner, which is
 consistent with the avowed objectives of the Act, as highlighted above. 348. The Commission also observes that Section 32 of the Act which deals with "Acts
 taking place outside India but having an effect on competition in India", clearly
 inter alia provides that the Commission shall notwithstanding that any enterprise Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 166 Public Version

 abusing the dominant position is outside India, have the power to inquire into
 abuse of dominant position by such player if such dominant position has or is
 likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India. That being
 the statutory scheme in respect of anti-competitive acts taking place outside India,
 there cannot be any higher threshold for examining the abusive conduct which has
 taken place within the municipal limits of India. 349. Furthermore, the statutory architecture is also in accord with the underlying
 objectives of the Act by empowering the Commission to issue peremptory interim
 orders when an act in contravention of the provisions of the Act is about to be
 committed. This is exemplified from a plain reading of the provisions of Section
 33 of the Act and for felicity of reference, the same are reproduced hereinbelow: Thus, the market outcome has evidenced the effect of the conduct on the part of
 Google in the market. Thus, it is unnecessary to dilate any further on this aspect. 351. Google also claimed that supporting the collect flow was in line with the industry
 practice. In this regard, the Commission notes that Section 4 of the Act places a Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 167 Public Version

 special responsibility on the dominant players that their conduct should not
 impinge on the competition on merits. Similar practices by non-dominant player
 may not fall within the ambit of Section 4 of the Act. Accordingly, a dominant
 player engaged in conduct proscribed under Section 4 of the Act cannot take the
 plea of standard industry practice. 352. Google also claims that it is inconceivable that Google's conduct on Google Play
 could affect competition in the wider UPI segment, which is highly dynamic and
 competitive. The Commission notes that UPI apps are meant for usage on smart
 mobile devices and Android OS has the widest coverage in the smart device
 segment with more than 90% market share in the smart mobile devices. Thus,
 Google becomes the gateway to Android smartphones due to dominance in the
 markets for licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android OS. Thus, by giving
 a better experience to users through intent follow integration for its own UPI app,
 Google is in a position to drive up its customer base. Given the interoperability
 offered by UPI ecosystem, generally the user does not multi-home and uses only
 one UPI app. Once the user starts using Google Pay UPI app for the Play Store,
 the natural tendency for the user is to stick to same app for other payments also.
 In this regard, it is pertinent to note that Google (with a market share of 34%)
 occupies the second position in the overall UPI market just behind PhonePe (with
 a market share of 46%) and Paytm is distant third at 11%. 353. To summarise, the Investigation has revealed that the intent flow technology is
 superior and user friendly than collect flow technology, with intent flow offering
 significant advantages to both customers and merchants and the success rate with
 the intent flow methodology being higher due to lower latency. Collect flow is a
 broken chain of steps, which requires that the customer actively engage with
 several, disconnected applications to manually complete a purchase. Payment
 through a Google Pay UPI is faster, simpler and does not require the user to switch
 between apps. This disincentivises a repeat user to use a non-Google UPI, which Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 168 Public Version

 is cumbersome and inconvenient. In terms of whether the difference in the two
 methodologies used to connect Google and non-Google apps can materially
 influence consumer choice and hence provide distinct competitive advantage to
 Google thereby distorting competition on the merits between Google and non-
 Google apps on Play Store, the data on market share collected by the DG provides
 useful insights. The data shows that Google Pay app enjoys the largest market
 share (around in UPI payments on Play Store, PhonePe is the distant second
 with around share. This does not represent the overall market share scenario
 in the UPI payment market in India, where PhonePe is the largest player with 46%
 market share, followed by Google Pay accounting for 34% of the market. 354. The Commission is of the view that Google has differentiated between Google
 Pay UPI app and other competing UPI apps such as, BHIM, Paytm, PhonePe, etc.
 by integrating its own payment offering using intent flow technology, while the
 other UPI apps have access to only the collect flow technology on the Play Store.
 In other word, Google has discriminated between developers of similarly placed
 apps, for equally placed transactions. 355. It is also noted that such discrimination has resulted in increasing the number of
 transactions being processed by Google Pay UPI app and also results in increased
 access to data and revenues by Google on Play Store. As payment through any
 other UPI app on Play Store's payment system is cumbersome, this resulted in
 more users shifting to Google Pay, thus increasing its popularity and value.
 Further, Google Pay being the only UPI app facilitating payments through intent
 flow methodology on the Play Store (which is a "must-have app"), lead to more
 users downloading Google Pay UPI app for the sake of convenience which would
 further increase the popularity and value of Google Pay UPI app and its usage
 outside the Play Store (and conversely decreasing the downloads and usage of
 other competing UPI apps). Public Version 356. The Commission also notes that Google's conduct is also resulting in denial of
 market access to competing UPI apps since the market for UPI enabled digital
 payment apps is multi-sided, and the network effects will lead to a situation where
 Google Pay's competitors are at a competitive disadvantage in the long run. When
 the usage and downloads of other UPI apps reduce, not only will such apps lose
 the incentive to innovate, but they will also lose the capability to innovate as they
 would not be able to collect user data to understand consumer preference, which
 would in the long term make the app irrelevant. 357. Further, being the gateway to Android smartphones due to dominance in the
 markets for licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android OS, Google is
 uniquely placed to (and is) leveraging this dominance in favour of Google Pay.
 These markets are closely related to each other as UPI is used as a method of
 payment (both for paid apps as well as IAPs on the Play Store). Accordingly,
 Google's imposition of collect flow technology on other UPI apps, while only
 allowing Google Pay to use intent flow technology for payments on the Play
 Store, amounts to leveraging of its position in the markets for the licensable of
 mobile OS and app stores for Android mobile to protect and promote its position
 in the market for UPI enabled digital payment apps. The situation is worsened by
 the fact that Google forces users to only use the Google Payment System for
 processing paid downloads and IAPs, and therefore, Google Pay essentially gets
 an advantage on every transaction on the Play Store. 358. Thus, the Investigation confirms the discriminatory treatment that is meted out by
 Google to its competing UPI apps for making payments on Play Store and its
 distortionary implications for competition within Play Store, which is the largest
 app marketplace on Android ecosystem. This discrimination has not been
 explained or justified by Google on any objective and rational basis, such as any
 technical constraints limiting seamless integration of third-party apps. It is now
 well known how dominant platforms that operate within multiproduct/multi- Public Version

 platform ecosystems, through even small actions, can leverage and extend their
 dominance in related markets. Platforms with gatekeeper power can engage in
 'self-preferencing' to leverage their position into vertically related markets. Their
 ability to do this may be enhanced by consumer behavioural biases, which
 increase the ability of platforms to guide their activity towards their own vertically
 related services, through carefully designed choice architecture. The Commission
 is of the view that conduct of Google undoubtedly amounts to leverage its position
 in the app store market to confer competitive advantage to its own product. 359. In view of the foregoing, the Commission holds Google to be in violation of Sections 4(2)(a)(ii) , 4(2)(c) and 4(2)(e) of the Act. 360. Google also claims that intervention of the Commission in this area is
 unnecessary, for the following reasons: Public Version 361. In relation to above averments of Google, the Commission notes that any
 regulatory action taken by NPCI would not absolve Google of the anti-
 competitive practices adopted by it. The competition should be allowed to flourish
 on merits. Issue 3: Whether pre-installation and prominence of Google Pay UPI App
 (GPay) by Google is in violation of Section 4(2) of the Act? 362. As per the Informant, Google encourages pre-installation and opting of Google
 Pay as the default payment option on new smart mobile devices using the Android
 OS at the time of initial set up. This will encourage the users to use Google Pay
 over other apps facilitating payment through UPI. Such preferential placement of
 Google Pay on Play Store drive the users to exclusively use Google Pay instead
 of looking for alternatives due to a "status quo bias". As per the Informant, given
 the dominance of Android and Play Store, the OEMs have no choice but to agree
 to the terms and conditions imposed by Google. The Informant alleged that the
 preinstallation and prominence of Google Pay amounts to the imposition of an
 unfair and discriminatory condition in contravention of Section 4(2)(a)(i), limits
 technical and scientific development in contravention of Section 4(2)(b), can
 result in the exclusion of competing apps from the market in contravention of
 Section 4(2)(c) and amounts to leveraging of Google's position in the markets for
 the licensing of smart mobile OS and app stores for Android OS to protect its
 position in the market for facilitating payment through UPI, in contravention of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 363. On the other hand, Google inter alia submitted that the GPay app (Tez) is not
 preinstalled on all Android devices and is not the default payment app. Google Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 172 Public Version

 licenses Play to OEMs as part of a suite of apps under its Mobile Application
 Distribution Agreement ("MADA"). The MADA does not require OEMs to
 preinstall the GPay app (Tez) and the GPay app (Tez) is not part of the suite of
 apps that OEMs must preinstall with Play. However, 364. The DG has examined the allegations made by the Informant and its findings are
 summarised below: Public Version

 364.3. 364.4. 364.5. In addition to Revenue sharing Agreement, Google also uses the second
 tool i.e., financial incentive through Placement Bonus Agreement for pre-
 installation of G-Pay App on qualified devices. Accordingly, Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 174 Public Version

 364.6. 364.7. Based on replies of few third parties, the DG observed that some other UPI
 Apps such as PhonePe and Paytm have also signed the pre-installation
 Agreement with the various OEMs. 364.8. Google has submitted that the Google Pay UPI App was pre-installed on
 less than of the total mobile devices sold in India, in the year 2020. 364.9. None of the competing UPI apps have submitted any evidence to
 corroborate denial by OEMs for pre-installation of their Apps. 365. Based on the foregoing, the Investigation has concluded that: Public Version

 365.3. Other UPI Apps such as PhonePe, Paytm, Amazon Pay etc. also have
 Agreements with OEMs for pre-installation of their UPI Apps and the same
 are pre-installed on mobile devices. These UPI apps also provides financial
 incentives to the OEMs for pre-installation of their Apps. 366. Accordingly, the Investigation did not find sufficient evidence to indicate that
 Google has abused its dominant position so far as the issue pertaining to pre-
 installation of Google Pay UPI App is concerned. 367. The Commission has perused the evidence collected by the DG and its findings. Investigation has revealed that Google enters into Revenue Sharing Agreements
 with OEMs for preinstallation of GPay app, typically along with some other
 Google proprietary apps. It also offers financial incentive through Placement
 Bonus Agreement for pre-installation of G-Pay app on qualified devices for
 premium placement of GPay. For premier devices, pre-installation of the GPay
 app is required to be on the Default Home Screen. Further, Google Pay is to be
 set as the default payment service for Premier devices. It is also observed that the
 clause associated with Google Pay
 for all three kinds of devices, i.e., Basic, Tier 2 and Premier devices.
 However, the Investigation has not examined the aspect of default status of GPay.
 The Commission is of the view that setting Goole Pay UPI app as the default
 payment application can outweigh, or even nullify, the benefits of having multiple
 payment applications pre-installed. Viewed in light of the remarkable growth in
 number of mobiles/tablets with GPay pre-installed in 2020, such incentivisation
 of default status through revenue sharing agreements appears to have the potential
 to interfere with competition on the merits. Further, the DG has not examined the
 implication of tying Google Pay UPI app with the other apps/ services of Google
 under the RSAs. Accordingly, the Commission is not inclined to give any finding
 on this aspect as well, and the same is left open to be examined appropriately. Public Version

 Procedural Errors 368. Before concluding, the Commission deems it appropriate to deal with some
 alleged procedural errors highlighted by Google in its response. 369. Google has averred that the DG has disregarded critical evidence submitted by it,
 which includes fundamental factual information underlying many of the core
 issues under investigation such as Play's service fee, GPBS, collect flow and
 intent flow integration. Further, the DG confined itself only to consider the
 evidence gathered during investigation against Google. Rather, the DG ought to
 have considered the explanations and evidence provided by Google in conducting
 a fair, independent, judicious and accurate investigation. Google claims that the
 DG's decision to ignore evidence submitted by Google has resulted in a
 fundamental misunderstanding of Google's products and their functioning which,
 in turn, is reflected in the DG's faulty conclusions in the Report. 370. Google further claims that the Investigation Report selectively relies on the
 responses of biased third parties that ostensibly confirm the Informants'
 allegations and, at the same time, ignores the responses of other objective third
 parties whose evidence demonstrates that Google's conduct is not anti-
 competitive. 371. In this regard, the Commission notes that the assertions made by Google do not
 appear to be validated from perusal of the Investigation Report. Not only has DG
 incorporated the response of Google in the Investigation Report but has also
 forwarded the entire submissions made by Google before it to the Commission
 while forwarding the Investigation Report. It cannot be gainsaid that the role of
 the DG in the investigation process is that of fact-finding nature and at the stage
 of the investigation, the DG is not expected to embark upon any adjudicatory
 process. Be that as it may, the Commission has independently examined the entire Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 177 Public Version

 material collected by the DG during the course of investigation, as detailed in the
 earlier part of this order while examining the merit of the case and in these
 circumstances, the Commission finds no merit in the submissions made by Google
 alleging procedural bias. 372. As already shown in this order, the Commission has also examined and dealt with
 such submissions of Google at appropriate places. In sum, findings of the
 Commission, as detailed in this order, are based on holistic assessment of all the
 evidence presented by the DG, third parties, the Informants and response of
 Google thereon. 373. Google has further contended that the DG has failed to discharge its obligation
 and ascertain the facts and circumstances and collect evidence in the matter. The
 DG is vested with the power of a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, including the power to receive evidence on affidavit, require discovery and
 production of documents, summon and enforce attendance of any person, and
 examine him on oath. However, the DG did not consult Google regarding the
 crucial and complex factual background surrounding the allegations or clarify the
 unsupported evidence submitted by biased third parties. Further, the DG failed to
 consult Apple, which is one of Google's primary competitors, to assess, verify and
 understand the claims made by Google, especially in relation to the competitive
 constraints exercised by iOS on Android and Apple's App Store on the Play Store. 374. Also, it was alleged that the DG failed to consult a representative cross-section of
 allegedly affected or interested participants. Investigation Report does not clarify
 how the DG identified the participants for market consultations and why the
 evidence of only some of them was relied upon in the DG Report. 375. The Commission has considered the aforesaid submissions made by Google and
 is of the opinion that the same are misconceived. No doubt, the DG has been Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 178 Public Version

 vested with the limited powers of Civil Court as also the power to conduct search
 and seizure operations, however, it is for the DG to exercise such powers in the
 manner as deemed appropriate in the facts and circumstances of each case. No
 party, much less a party under investigation, can dictate as to the mode and manner
 of investigation to be undertaken by the DG. As previously pointed out, the role
 of DG during investigation is essentially fact finding in nature by collecting
 documents and evidence and to present its recommendations to the Commission
 based on their analysis. While conducting the investigation, it is neither
 requirement of the law nor any obligation of the investigator to consult each and
 every affected or interested participant. On careful perusal of the Investigation
 Report, the Commission is satisfied that the DG has contacted a cross-section of
 stakeholders including third parties and in this view of the matter, the allegations,
 and suggestions of bias in investigation as attributed by Google to the DG lack
 merit and are rejected. The Commission notes the submission of the Google that
 the DG has not consulted it "regarding the crucial and complex factual
 background surrounding the allegations", as thoroughly misconceived. It is on
 record that the DG has issued multiple probe letters to Google and the
 Commission is satisfied that Google was given sufficient and ample opportunities
 to present case during investigation. Even after investigation, Google has been
 provided with enough opportunities to present its objections and suggestions in
 the matter. 376. Google has further contended that the DG was unduly swayed by prior
 observations of the Commission, in breach of the order passed by the Commission
 under Section 26(1) the Act directing investigation. It was argued that an order
 passed under Section 26(1) of the Act, directing the DG to cause an investigation,
 is an "administrative direction" and no reliance can be placed upon it.
 Recognising this position, the Commission in each order passed under Section
 26(1) of the Act notes that, "nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to a
 final expression of opinion on the merits of the case". However, the DG continues Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 179 Public Version

 to place reliance on such prima facie orders, which were passed not only in the
 present case, but also in other cases as well. Such non-application of mind vitiates
 the findings in the Investigation Report on relevant market and dominance. 377. In this regard, the Commission notes that there can be no dispute with the legal
 propositions that the orders directing investigations are administrative in nature,
 which delineate the scope of investigation. At the same time, the investigation is
 an independent process to collect evidence within the framework of investigation
 as provided in the administrative orders directing inquiry. Antitrust investigations
 require deep understanding of markets and for undertaking such exercise, the
 investigators review literature on the subject matter of inquiry which include not
 only the orders passed by the Commission, but even the orders passed by
 Competition Agencies and market study reports. 378. For the reasons already mentioned, in antitrust investigations, which are market
 centric and inquisitorial in nature, the traditional tools and approaches of
 adversarial set up are not only inapplicable but are unsuitable with such inquiries.
 Thus, no fault can be found with the DG in referring orders passed by the
 Commission in understanding the background and issues involved in the matter.
 Having said that, the Commission is of the considered opinion that the
 recommendation of the DG cannot be based upon such orders and the same have
 to be arrived at independently after gathering documents and evidence in
 accordance with law. Having perused the investigation report, the Commission is
 satisfied that while analyzing the allegations and reaching its recommendations,
 the DG has not relied upon such orders and the same are based upon the
 documents and evidence gathered during the course of investigation. The
 reference to the prima facie order as made by the DG in the Investigation Report
 is only to understand the scope of investigation and such reference, by no stretch
 of arguments, be construed as swaying the independence of the recommendations
 made by the DG. In fact, if the argument of Google is taken to its logical Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 180 Public Version

 conclusion, there can be no independent adjudication by the authority also (in this
 case, the Commission) after making a prima facie opinion while ordering
 investigation. 379. Google has also contended that that the DG posed leading questions to third
 parties in violation of various order of Courts which have held that a leading
 question to be one which "suggests the answer which the interrogator wishes or
 expects to receive, or which embodying a material fact admits of a conclusive
 answer by a simple negative or affirmative."36 Reference was also made to the
 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Varkey Joseph case37 and averred that
 leading questions violate the right to a fair trial enshrined under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. Google claimed that the DG disregarded the fundamental
 principle and asked leading questions that encouraged "acquiescence bias" in
 favour of finding Google guilty of violating the provisions of the Act. While the
 fact of the leading questions alone invalidates the Investigation Report, the
 conclusions therein are further undermined by the fact that the DG relied
 extensively on responses received to such leading questions. 380. The aforesaid plea is based on wrong understanding of the nature of the
 proceedings before the Commission. As a market regulator, proceedings before
 the Commission are inquisitorial and in rem in nature. The Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India in the case of Competition Commission of India v. Steel Authority
 of India Limited, CIVIL APPEAL NO.7779 OF 2010 decided on 09.09.2010 has
 expressly noted that the Commission performs various functions including
 regulatory, inquisitorial and adjudicatory. In this view of the matter, the plea raised
 by Google and the judgments relied in the context of adversarial setting are of no
 assistance. The inquisitorial proceedings by very nature require the authority to
 actively involved in inquiry unlike the case of an adversarial or accusatory system, 36 Dobariya & others v. State of Gujarat , 2015 Cri LJ 3807, 17 April 2015 37 Varkey Joseph v. State of Kerala, 1993 AIR 1892, April 27 1993 Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 181 Public Version

 in which the role of the authority is primarily that of an impartial referee between
 the competing parties. Google has not been established to show any prejudice
 much less any miscarriage due to the procedure adopted by the DG. Google has
 been given sufficient opportunity to rebut the evidence gathered by the DG and to
 file its objections and suggestions to the investigation report prepared by the DG. 381. Google also avers that Investigation Report places heavy reliance on a draft
 working paper and often interim market study reports from other competition
 authorities. Google avers that the DG's reliance on foreign documentation of a
 preliminary nature and without analyzing the Indian market is wholly
 inappropriate. Further, the majority of these sources are non-final. The DG also
 categorically disregarded any observations made in these interim reports which
 favored Google. 382. As previously noted, antitrust investigation is complex in nature and require
 greater understanding of the subject and so long as the recommendations are made
 in an independent manner based on material and evidence gathered during
 investigation, mere reference to such reports for the limited purpose of
 understanding the issues in itself cannot be said to sway, much less vitiate, the
 conclusions arrived at by the DG. 383. Next, Google contended that the DG committed numerous contraventions of the
 principles of natural justice and failed to comply with the processes established
 under the Act. The DG did not grant Google the right to cross-examine witness
 testimony in the investigation process. The DG's denial of cross-examination on
 the ground that the findings are based on "analysis of written replies/submissions
 of various parties" is inconsistent with the accepted legal position. Google has
 been deprived of the right to test the veracity of the claims/ assertions made by
 the Informants and the third parties, including on such important issues as impact
 of Play's service fee. Public Version 384. Google has averred that Regulation 41(5) of the Competition Commission of
 India (General) Regulations, 2009 (General Regulations) provides that when a
 witness leads evidence, the other party (Google in the present case) should be
 afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the said witness giving such evidence.
 Further, right to cross-examination is not restricted to oral statements, but extends
 to the allegations, statements, and evidence contained in each of the
 Information(s) as well as responses provided by third parties. Unless such
 allegations, statements, or evidence are admitted or subject to cross-examination,
 they are unverified and cannot be relied upon. 385. The Commission is afraid that the submissions of Google are contrary to the
 express provisions of General Regulations. Unlike civil courts where cross-
 examination is a matter of course, cross-examination before the DG or the
 Commission is highly circumscribed by regulatory framework and can be granted
 on fulfilling requirements of Regulation 41(5) of the General Regulations. 386. In this regard, reference may be made to the provisions contained in Regulation
 41 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 which
 deals with the procedure for taking evidence including cross-examination of the
 persons giving evidence. The same is quoted below. Taking of Evidence
 Regulation 4l(1)... (2)... (3)... (4) The Commission or the Director General, as the case
 may be, may call for the parties to lead evidence by way of
 affidavit or lead oral evidence in the matter. (5) if the Commission or the Director General, as the case
 may be, directs evidence by a party to be led by way of oral
 submission, the Commission or the Director General, as the
 case may be, if considered necessary or expedient, grant an
 opportunity to the other party or parties as the case may be,
 to cross-examine the person giving the evidence. Public Version

 (6)... (7)... (emphasis supplied) 387. It is, thus, evident that the Commission or the DG has the discretion to take
 evidence either by way of Affidavit or by directing the parties to lead oral
 evidence in the matter. However, if the Commission or the DG, as the case may
 be, directs evidence by a party to be led by way of oral submissions, the
 Commission or the DG, as the case may be, if considers necessary or expedient,
 may grant an opportunity to the other party or parties, as the case may be, to cross-
 examine the person giving the evidence. Thus, it is only when the evidence is
 directed to be led by way of oral submissions that the Commission or the DG may
 grant an opportunity to the other party or parties to cross-examine the person
 giving the evidence, if considered necessary or expedient. Hence, even when the
 evidence is led by oral submissions, the Commission or the DG retains the
 discretion to consider the request for grant of opportunity to the other party or
 parties to cross-examine the person giving the evidence if the same is considered
 necessary or expedient. Thus, the only issue which needs to be examined is when
 it would be necessary and expedient to grant an opportunity to the other party or
 parties to cross-examine the person giving evidence by way of oral submissions.
 It is not the case of Google that it is seeking cross-examination of a witness whose
 oral testimony has been recorded by the Google. As such, the request of Google
 for seeking cross-examination is not maintainable as per the statutory scheme.
 Google has been given ample opportunities to controvert the findings of the DG
 and accordingly, the Commission finds no substance in the grievance made by
 Google on this count as well. 388. Google further contended that under Regulation 20(4) of the General Regulations,
 the DG is under a strict obligation to include in the report all documents it has
 collected during its investigation. However, when the non-confidential version of
 the Report was provided to the parties on 16.03.2022, it did not include the full Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 184 Public Version

 information/ evidence/ documents collected by the DG. In order to obtain access
 to these documents, Google had to file multiple requests for file inspection.
 Thereafter, Google filed applications seeking certified copies of these documents,
 which were granted on 12.05.2022. 389. The plea is thoroughly misconceived. In the instant case, Google has been given
 full and complete access to the entire case records including confidential
 documents and in fact, the same has not even been disputed by Google. Moreover,
 Google has been given sufficient time to respond to the Investigation Report both
 trough written submissions as well as during oral hearing. In these circumstances,
 it is not understood as to on what basis such plea has been raised at this stage. 390. Google next argued that the DG unjustifiably cloaked third party-submissions in
 confidentiality, improperly shielding them from Google's scrutiny and challenge.
 It was averred that before granting a confidentiality request, the DG is required to
 assess it to confirm that it fulfils the criteria laid down under the erstwhile
 Regulations 35(3) and 35(9) of the General Regulations. However, in this case,
 the DG completely ignored both the letter and spirit of Regulation 35 and
 impermissibly granted confidentiality over submissions by third parties. As per
 Google, the DG did not apply its mind and instead indiscriminately, and arbitrarily
 granted confidentiality for information that is generic and in the public domain.
 Such cavalier and unreasoned grants of confidentiality by the DG not only
 contravene the regulatory scheme, but they also ignore their profound impact on
 Google's rights of defence. 391. As already noted, Google has been given complete and unfettered access to even
 the confidential information of the third party(ies) and in this view of the matter,
 nothing survives in the point raised by the Google. 392. The Commission concluded that, Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 185 Public Version

 392.1. making access to the Play Store, for app developers, dependent on
 mandatory usage of GPBS for paid apps and in-app purchases constitutes
 an imposition of unfair condition on app developers. Thus, Google is found
 to be in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act.
 392.2. Google is found to be following discriminatory practices by not using
 GPBS for its own applications i.e., YouTube. This also amount to
 imposition of discriminatory conditions as well as pricing as YouTube is
 not paying the service fee as being imposed on other apps covered in the
 GPBS requirements. Thus, Google is found to be in violation of Section
 4(2)(a)(i) and 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Act. 392.3. mandatory imposition of GPBS disturbs innovation incentives and the
 ability of both the payment processors as well as app developers to
 undertake technical development and innovate and thus, tantamount to
 limiting technical development in the market for in-app payment
 processing services. Thus, Google is found to be in violation of the
 provisions of Section 4(2)(b)(ii) of the Act. 392.4. mandatory imposition of GPBS by Google, also results in denial of market
 access for payment aggregators as well as app developers, in violation of
 the provisions of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act. 392.5. practices followed by Google results in leveraging its dominance in market
 for licensable mobile OS and app stores for Android OS, to protect its
 position in the downstream markets, in violation of the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 392.6. different methodologies used by Google to integrate its own UPI app vis- à-vis other rival UPI apps with the Play Store results in violation of Sections 4(2)(a)(ii) , 4(2)(c) and 4(2)(e) of the Act. Public Version

 ORDER 393. In view of the foregoing analysis, the Commission delineates the following
 relevant market(s) in the present matter: 394. The Commission holds Google to be dominant in in the first two relevant markets
 i.e., market for licensable OS for smart mobile devices in India and market for
 app store for Android smart mobile OS in India. Further, Google is also found to
 have abused its dominant position in contravention of the provisions of Section
 4(2)(a)(i), Section 4(2)(a)(ii), Section 4(2)(b)(ii), Section 4(2)(c) and Section
 4(2)(e) of the Act, as already discussed in the earlier part of this order. Remedies 395. Accordingly, in terms of the provisions of Section 27 of the Act, the Commission
 hereby directs Google to cease and desist from indulging in anti-competitive
 practices that have been found to be in contravention of the provisions of Section
 4 of the Act, as detailed in this order. Some of the measures, in this regard, are
 indicated below: party billing/ payment processing services, either for in-app purchases or
 for purchasing apps. Google shall also not discriminate or otherwise take
 any adverse measures against such apps using third party billing/ payment
 processing services, in any manner. Public Version

 395.2. Google shall not impose any Anti-steering Provisions on app developers
 and shall not restrict them from communicating with their users to promote
 their apps and offerings, in any manner. 395.3. Google shall not restrict end users, in any manner, to access and use within
 apps, the features and services offered by app developers. 395.4. Google shall set out a clear and transparent policy on data that is collected
 on its platform, use of such data by the platform and also the potential and
 actual sharing of such data with app developers or other entities, including
 related entities. 395.5. The competitively relevant transaction/ consumer data of apps generated
 and acquired through GPBS, shall not be leveraged by Google to further
 its competitive advantage. Google shall also provide access to the app
 developer of the data that has been generated through the concerned app,
 subject to adequate safeguards, as highlighted in this order. 395.6. Google shall not impose any condition (including price related condition)
 on app developers, which is unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory or
 disproportionate to the services provided to the app developers. 395.7. Google shall ensure complete transparency in communicating to app
 developers, services provided, and corresponding fee charged. Google
 shall also publish in an unambiguous manner the payment policy and
 criteria for applicability of the fee(s). 395.8. Google shall not discriminate against other apps facilitating payment
 through UPI in India vis-à-vis its own UPI app, in any manner. Public Version 396. The anti-competitive clauses of different policies of Google, as identified in this
 order, shall not be enforced by Google, with immediate effect. 397. Google, however, is allowed three months from the date of receipt of this order to
 implement necessary changes in its practices and/or modify the applicable
 agreements/ policies and to submit a compliance report to the Commission in this
 regard. Imposition of Penalty 398. The Commission has also considered the issue of imposition of monetary penalty
 upon Google and has given it a thoughtful consideration thereon. It is evident that
 the legislature has conferred wide discretion upon the Commission in the matter
 of imposition of penalty. Under the provisions contained in Section 27(b) of the
 Act, the Commission may impose such penalty upon the contravening parties as
 it may deem fit which shall be not more than ten per cent of the average of the
 turnover for the last three preceding financial years, upon each of such person or
 enterprises which are parties to such agreement or abuse. 399. Google in its submissions has also averred that several factors mitigate against the
 imposition of any penalty i.e., (a) the benefits to app developers and users arising
 from Google's conduct; (b) the absence of any evidence of harm to app developers
 and consumers; (c) matter being first of its kind globally and involves novel
 theories of harm; (d) the lack of any evidence of anti-competitive intent; (e) the
 fact that the potential concerns regarding GPay have been addressed; and (f)
 Google's beneficial contribution to the Indian market, especially its pro-
 competitive business model. Accordingly, Google has requested that even if an
 infringement is found, the Commission ought to exercise its discretion and refrain
 from imposing any penalty. Google has also submitted that any potential concerns
 relating to GPay have already been addressed by its decision to move all UPI apps
 on the intent flow in Google Play. Google in its submissions have also referred to Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 189 Public Version

 user choice billing pilot which allows eligible and participating developers to offer
 an additional billing option next to Google Play's billing system. The pilot
 program has also been stated to extended to developers serving users in select
 countries, including India. 400. The Commission has carefully perused various averments of Google in relation
 to imposition of penalty. The Commission notes the two measures referred to by
 Google in relation to Issue 1 and Issue 2, as mentioned above, have been adopted
 very recently in 2022. In relation to allowing non-Google UPI apps to be
 integrated as per intent flow methodology, Google vide its submissions dated
 01.08.2022, has stated that "...Google currently expects the integration of all
 transactions with the intent flow to be completed in the coming weeks...".
 Similarly, the pilot project for allowing user choice billing pilot for eligible and
 participating developers has been launched on a limited basis and the same has
 been extended to India w.e.f. 01.09.2022 i.e., after the receipt of the Investigation
 Report and oral hearing in the matter. 401. Further, the Commission notes that the objective behind imposition of penalties
 is: (a) to reflect the seriousness of the contravention; and (b) to ensure that the
 threat of penalties will deter the parties concerned from violating the provisions
 of the Act. Therefore, the quantum of penalties imposed must correspond with the
 gravity of the offence and the same must be determined after having due regard
 to the mitigating and aggravating circumstances of the case. Considering the
 totality of factors, the Commission does not find any reason to refrain from
 imposing penalty in the matter. 402. The plea related to lack of any anticompetitive intent as well as that of novelty of
 the issues is a clear misrepresentation and hence not acceptable. The present
 conduct of Google is a continuation of its vertical integration strategy based on
 data collection and monetization. Since, the enforcement of provisions of Section Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 190 Public Version

 4 of the Act in the year 2009, every dominant entity is required to adhere to the
 law of the land and ensure its conduct remains in compliance of the same. The
 prohibitions laid down in the Act are straight forward and any abuse of dominant
 position in terms of imposition of unfair conditions, denial of market access,
 leveraging, imposition of supplementary obligations etc., is prohibited. Google,
 after imposing unfair conditions as well as undertaking other conducts found
 violative of Section 4 of the Act, cannot take a plea that it lacked anti-competitive
 intent. The dominant undertakings are expected to ensure their conduct in comport
 with the provisions of the Act. Thus, the pleas raised by Google are devoid of any
 merit and the same are rejected. 403. In relation to computation of penalty, it would also be apposite to refer to the
 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Excel Crop Care Limited v.
 Competition Commission of India & Anr., Civil Appeal No. 2480 of 2014 wherein
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered the issue as to whether penalty under Section 27(b) of the Act should be imposed on the total/ entire turnover of the
 offending company or only on "relevant turnover". The Hon'ble Supreme Court
 opined that adopting the criteria of 'relevant turnover' for the purpose of
 imposition of penalty will be more in tune with the ethos of the Act and the legal
 principles which surround matters pertaining to imposition of penalties. While
 reaching this conclusion, the Hon'ble Supreme Court recorded the following
 reasons: 404. Following the parameters set by the Hon'ble Supreme Court's as mentioned
 supra, the Commission now proceeds to determine relevant turnover and
 thereafter, would calculate appropriate percentage of penalty based on facts and
 circumstances of case. 405. Google filed written submissions dated 12.09.2022 on quantum of penalty which
 may be levied by the Commission in the event it is held to be in contravention of
 the provisions of the Act. Having considered the submissions made by Google on
 the potential penalties, the Commission vide its order dated 14.09.2022, directed
 Google to submit details of its turnover and profit generated or arising/accruing
 from India (including any of its group entities), from various revenue streams
 associated with Play Store (including advertising whether delivered/displayed in-
 app or otherwise from apps hosted on Play Store, paid apps and in-app purchases,
 developer fees, etc.) along with break-up thereof, for three preceding financial
 years. Google was also directed to submit details of its turnover and profit
 generated or arising/accruing from its entire business operations in India
 (including any of its group entities), for three preceding financial years. It was
 also clarified that the details requisitioned should include revenue and profit
 generated or arising/accruing from India or attributable to services delivered in
 India irrespective of the global nature of the underlying agreements/transactions
 or jurisdiction where the turnover is booked. Google filed its reply to the said
 order of the Commission on 06.10.2022. In this regard, Google was also granted
 extension of time by 14 days, as prayed. Public Version 406. In its submissions, Google has inter alia averred that "...if any penalty is
 imposed..........it should be based only on turnover from Google Play's service fee
 when Google Play's billing system is used in India for purchases of paid apps, in-
 app purchases and subscription purchases...". 407. The Commission notes that to determine relevant turnover in relation to
 technology platforms, such as one operated by Google, it is important to
 appreciate the business model, incentives of the platforms and their revenue
 streams. Various products of Google work on the basis of network effects i.e., with
 the increase in numbers of users on its platform, the attractiveness of the platform/
 products for the advertisers increases multi-fold. In such platforms, not only two/
 multi sides are intricately intertwined and interwoven with each other, but the
 products/ services offered by the platform operator (Google in this case) derive
 strength from each other due to economies of scope and scale. Replicating such
 an ecosystem becomes extremely difficult for a new entrant. Competition in such
 a scenario is amongst ecosystems and not just the verticals or independent
 services. In such a case, the entire platform has to be taken as one unit to account
 for the cross-market externalities between platform sides, and revenue generated
 therefrom has to be seen as a whole. 408. In this regard, the Commission has also perused the Alphabet Inc.'s Annual
 Reports and specifically the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
 Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein, which was submitted by
 Google on 04.05.2022. Some of the important observations from the same re as
 follows: Public Version

 "We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from different
 channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats" 409. Google also states that "...Google Services' core products and platforms include
 Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google
 Play, Search, and YouTube, each with broad and growing adoption by users
 around the world...". The Commission notes that most of these products are
 offered for free to users and primarily monetized through advertising revenue for
 Google. The foregoing analysis as well as financial details clearly reflect the
 singularity and focus of Google on advertising, in its business operations. Google
 Play is also an important cog in this wheel where it generates more revenues
 through advertising rather than through service fee (discussed below). In this
 complex web of various products which are mostly offered free to users in return
 for collecting user data for monetization through advertisement, it would be
 completely inappropriate to consider only service fee as relevant turnover. 410. The Commission notes that there are inter alia two other major advertisement- based revenue streams directly associated with the Play Store i.e., Revenue from
 Advertisements displayed on Google Play and Revenue from In-app
 Advertisements. As per the revenue data submitted by Google, for the FY 2020- 411. The Commission further notes that these data sets are subject to various
 disclaimers & caveats and because of which they are claimed to be not comparable
 and thus, cannot be summed up. 412. Even the data in respect of revenue generated or arising/ accruing from their entire
 business operations in India, has been caveated with the following: 413. In this regard, it is apposite to note that the Commission has given an
 unambiguous direction to Google that the data should be supported by certificates
 of Chartered Accountants. However, Google has not provided the same and rather
 has provided certificates of its own officers. 414. The Commission takes a serious note of such glaring inconsistencies and wide
 disclaimers in presenting various data points by Google. The Commission is
 constrained to observe that despite commanding enormous resources, Google has
 failed to provide the data in the manner sought by the Commission despite grant
 of sufficient time, as sought by it. Be that as it may, in the interest of justice and
 with an intent of ensuring necessary market correction at the earliest, the
 Commission decides to proceed to quantify the provisional monetary penalties on
 the basis of the data presented by Google. Accordingly, the Commission decides
 to take the revenue data of Google's business operations in India, as submitted by
 it vide submission dated 06.10.2022, as relevant turnover for computation of
 quantum of penalty. 415. Now, coming to determination of an appropriate amount of penalty to be imposed,
 the Commission has given a thoughtful consideration to the same including the
 averments and submissions made by Google. The Commission has taken a note
 of measures announced/ adopted by Google related to issues under investigation.
 The Commission also notes that it can impose penalty on average of the turnover
 for the last three preceding financial years i.e., effectively restricted to one-year
 turnover of the infringing entity. However, the conduct of Google is going on for
 many years. In this regard, it is pertinent to note the submission of Google wherein
 it states that, "...The scope of the Payments Policy has largely remained consistent Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 196 Public Version

 since 2011. Developers selling apps or distributing apps with in-app purchases
 have always been required to use GPB..." Also, that "...Developers have always
 been required to use GPB for in-app purchases and paid apps...". 416. On a holistic appreciation of the facts and circumstances of the case and the
 mitigating factors put forth by the OPs, the Commission is of the view that the
 ends of justice would be met if a penalty of 7 % of the relevant turnover.
 Accordingly, the Commission imposes a penalty on Google @ 7 % of its average
 of the average of relevant turnover for the last three preceding financial years
 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21, as provided by Google. Accordingly, the
 computation of the quantum of penalty imposed on Google is set out below: 417. Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of Rs. 936.44 crore (Rupees
 Nine Hundred Thirty-Six crore and forty-four lakhs only) upon Google for
 violating Section 4 of the Act. Google is directed to deposit the penalty amount
 within 60 days of the receipt of this order. 418. It is made clear that the aforesaid penalty is provisional and subject to revision on
 Google furnishing the requisite financial details and supporting documents as
 sought by the Commission vide order dated 14.09.2022. Google is directed to do Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 197 Public Version

 the needful within a period of 30 days from the receipt of this order. It is further
 clarified that the basis of determination of penalty i.e., relevant turnover as well
 as appropriate percentage thereof has already been decided vide this order.
 However, the actual quantum of penalty may undergo a revision based on revenue
 data to be submitted by Google and to that extent only, the present penalty is
 provisional. 419. Before parting, the Commission deems it appropriate to deal with the request of
 the parties seeking confidentiality over certain documents / data / information
 filed by them under Regulation 35 of the General Regulations, 2009 (as amended).
 Considering the grounds given by the parties for the grant of confidential
 treatment, the Commission grants confidentiality to such documents / data /
 information in terms of Regulation 35 of the General Regulations, 2009, subject
 to Section 57 of the Act, for a period of three years from the passing of this order.
 It is, however, made clear that nothing disclosed in the public version of this order
 shall be deemed to be confidential or deemed to have been granted confidentiality,
 as the same have been used and disclosed for purposes of the Act in terms of the
 provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. Accordingly, the Commission directs
 that two versions of the present order may be issued i.e., public version shall be
 served upon the parties and a confidential version shall be shared with Google
 through members of the confidentiality ring. The public version of the order shall
 be prepared keeping in mind the confidentiality requests and the provisions of Section 57 of the Act read with Regulation 35 of the CCI General Regulations,
 2009 (as amended). For convenience, it is directed that the confidential version of
 this order may be provided to such ring members/ individuals through one of the
 ring members, who may then share the same with the other ring members
 nominated by Google. Public Version 420. The Secretary is directed to forward certified copies of the present order to the
 parties, in terms of the directions above. Sd/- (Ashok Kumar Gupta)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Sangeeta Verma)
 Member

 Sd- (Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi)
 Member

New Delhi
Date: 25 / 10 /2022 Case Nos. 07 of 2020, 14 of 2021 and 35 of 2021 199