% 27.02.2026
 I.A. 5487/2026 (Pre-Institution Mediation) 1. This is an application filed by the plaintiff seeking exemption from
 instituting pre-litigation Mediation under Section 12A of the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015 (' CC Act '). 2. As the present matter contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar vs. T.K.D. Keerthi : 3. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 5488/2026 (Additional Documents) 4. The present application has been filed on behalf of the plaintiff under
 Order XI Rule 1(4) of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (' CPC ') as applicable
 to commercial suits under the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 (' CC Act ') seeking
 leave to place on record additional documents. 5. The plaintiff is permitted to file additional documents in accordance with
 the provisions of the CC Act and the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 1 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 2018 within thirty (30) days. 6. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of. I.A. 5489/2026 (Seeking leave to place on record an infringing reel in a pen
 drive/compact disc) 7. This is an application filed on behalf of the plaintiff under Section 151 of
 CPC seeking to place on record an infringing reel in a pen drive/compact disc. 8. The plaintiff is permitted to place on record an infringing reel in a pen
 drive/compact disc within four weeks. 9. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 5490/2026 (Order XXXIX Rules 1& 2, CPC ) 10. Present application has been filed on behalf of the plaintiff under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 of CPC , 1908 seeking ex-parte ad-interim injunction
 against the defendant. 11. Plaintiff is a company organised and existing under the laws of France
 with the registered office at Paris, France. "LOUIS VUITTON" mark was
 adopted in Paris in the year 1854 and used as the corporate name of the
 plaintiff. It is stated that in 1896, Mr. Georges Vuitton created a distinctive

 'LV' Monogram on canvas . It is stated that over the years, the plaintiff
 has risen to an iconic status in the world of luxury leather, fashion and lifestyle
 brands, and in the year 1987, the plaintiff merged with Moët Hennessy S.A. to
 form Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy ("LVMH"), a French conglomerate.
 LVMH claims to own a portfolio of 75 prestigious luxurious brands in the
 world including Louis Vuitton amongst others. 12. Plaintiff claims that the standalone letters 'L' and 'V' as the core
 components of the interlocked logo, have gained significant recognition that
 evoke an immediate connection with the plaintiff's products. LV has CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 2 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 transcended its function as an acronym, and has become a distinctive identifier
 of the plaintiff's brand. The said interlocked logo are prominently and
 independently featured in association with plaintiff's luxury products,
 including leather goods, apparel, footwear, watches and accessories. 13. Plaintiff opened its first exclusive retail store at the Oberoi Hotel in New
 Delhi in the year 2003, followed by similar stores in Bangalore and Mumbai,
 which are authorised to sell plaintiff's products in India. Plaintiff claims to
 have spent substantial time, money and resources towards sales, promotion and
 advertisement expenses, and products featuring LV marks worldwide, and in
 India, through leading fashion magazines such as Elle, Vogue and Vanity Fair.
 The famous fashion photographer Annie Leibovitz is claimed to have filmed
 several prestigious celebrities such Steffi Graf, Andre Agassi and others for the
 plaintiff's advertisement. Plaintiff's products are also endorsed routinely by
 famous celebrities such Madonna, Sean Connery, Michelle Williams, Angelina
 Jolie etc. Plaintiff claims to have a brand values of approximately USD 48.4
 billion as on date and regularly features in the list of ten top fashion brands
 which are detailed below: 14. Plaintiff has obtained registration for the LV mark including the

 interlocked LV logo as far back as on 08.08.1985 in Class 18. The list of CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 4 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 such registrations obtained subsequently are detailed in para 22 of the plaint.
 The plaintiff claims to have zero tolerance towards infringement,
 counterfeiting and imitation of its marks by competitors or third party traders
 plaintiff claims to have been vigilant in protecting its intellectual property
 rights to preserve its goodwill, reputation, prestige and exclusivity of its
 designs. Plaintiff claims to sell its products only through standalone boutiques
 or e-commerce website. In para 24 of the plaint, the plaintiff has referred to
 some of the decisions passed in its favour in this Court wherein the word mark

 LOUIS VUITTON, the interlocked LV logo , string of letters L and V,

 and the Toile monogram design as well-known trademarks in
 India. Subsequently, the word mark LOUIS VUITTON also is included in the
 list of well-known trademarks maintained by the Trade Mark Registry.
 Supporting documents are filed in the list of documents accompanying the
 plaint. 15. Around late September, 2025, plaintiff discovered that defendant no.2/
 Bric-X Infra Private Limited on its Instagram handle namely
 'luxurypropertyofficials' had posted an infringing advertisement for a real
 estate offering using the plaintiff's LOUIS VUITTON mark in the description
 while misspelling 'LOIUS'. The defendant no.2 falsely claimed that people can
 buy shares in the plaintiff which is offering real estate investment opportunities
 in a project. The advertisement intended to misrepresent that the plaintiff is
 offering a wealth building asset and opening a store in the said project thereby
 defrauding the public by promising financial gains, luring them into investing
 their hard earned money by promising them multiplies returns. Plaintiff
 apprehends that defendant no.2 may have committed financial scams and
 losses to the public as well. One such Instagram screenshot is reproduced CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 5 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 hereunder: 16. Further investigation revealed that the impugned projects 'M3M Route
 65' and 'M3M Jewel' unauthorizedly used plaintiff's mark LOUIS VUITTON CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 6 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 to create a false association with plaintiff and misrepresent as if it is launching a
 Louis Vuitton showroom. The investigations also revealed that the defendant
 nos.1 and 2 are also using the impugned marks for the promotion and sale of the
 aforesaid impugned projects. It is stated that when the investigator expressed
 interest in investing in the said project, a director of defendant no.2 made a
 false claim that the Louis Vuitton Company has procured units on lease in the
 said project, which was false to the knowledge of the defendant nos.1 and 2. No
 such units or any investment has been initiated by the plaintiff at all. 17. Similar investigations with defendant no.1 also disclosed the prolific
 unauthorised use of the plaintiff's LV marks by purposely misspelling the
 trademark "LOUIS VUITTON" with "LOIS VUTTON", screenshots of such
 infringement are extracted hereunder: 18. The investigations and search conducted by the investigator and the
 plaintiff also revealed extensive infringement of its LV marks on several third
 party real estate listing platforms such as M3M IFC Gurgaon: The Ultimate
 Commercial Destination, M3M Jewel Boutique Luxury Retail MG Road
 Sector 25 Gurgaon | Settlers India, and M3M Urbana Premium, Sector 67,
 Gurgaon is in sector 68 Gurgaon. In support of the aforesaid, the relevant
 extracts of the infringing third party websites, blogs and reels are filed as
 Document-17 and the Investigator's affidavit dated 27.01.2026 is placed on
 record as Document 18. 19. Plaintiff has also sent cease and desist notices via WhatsApp while a
 physical copy of the same was sent to defendant no.1 through speed post, which
 was received back with the endorsement 'refused to accept', however, the
 tracking report erroneously mentions 'returned to sender-insufficient address'.
 None of the defendants have complied with the demands raised in the cease and
 desist notice, and are stated to continue the infringing activities narrated above. 20. Based on the above, the plaintiff seeks an ex-parte ad-interim injunction
 apart from other urgent reliefs. 21. This Court has heard the arguments of Mr. Anuraj Tirthankar, learned
 counsel for the plaintiff, perused the plaint, and examined the documents
 placed on record alongwith the plaint. 22. The plaintiff has been able to demonstrate that it is a registered
 proprietor of not only the word mark LOUIS VUITTON worldwide but also
 registered in India as far back as in the year 1985, including the LV marks, and

 the interlocked LV logo . The plaintiff claims to have a brand value of
 USD 48.4 billion, and clearly enjoys tremendous goodwill and reputation in
 India too, which is evident on account of the revenue of around €39.8 billion in
 the first half of the year 2025. That apart, the plaintiff has clearly been vigilant CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 8 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 in taking immediate steps to protect any kind of an infringement regarding its
 registered trademarks in India, and its registered trademarks/logos have been
 declared to be well-known trademarks by this Court in the lawsuits mentioned
 in para 24 of the plaint. Even the Trade Marks Registry has enlisted the mark
 LOUIS VUITTON of the plaintiff in the list of well-known trademarks in the
 years 2006 and 2014. The said mark was declared as a well-known trademark
 vide the judgments passed by this Court in CS(OS) 90/2006 and CS(OS)
 270/2014. 23. The infringing advertisements and listings clearly evidence that the
 defendants are either using the identical LOUIS VUITTON trademark or
 deceptively similar mark and appear to dishonestly but intentionally misspell
 the mark as 'LOIS VUTTON' to mislead the general public into believing as if
 the projects of which such listings and advertisements are found, to be
 somehow associated with the plaintiff or invested into by the plaintiffs. Both of
 which are asserted to be completely false and fictitious. Prima facie, it appears
 to be a case of abject infringement by the defendants leading also to dilution of

 the trademark LOUIS VUITTON and the LV logo of the plaintiff.
 Evidently, the plaintiff has a prima facie strong case. Having regard to the
 aforesaid, balance of convenience is tilted in the favour of plaintiff and in case
 immediate and urgent ex-parte ad-interim injunction is not granted in favour of
 plaintiff, loss and injury which may not be adequately compensated in
 monetary terms may be suffered by the plaintiff. In view thereof, ex-parte
 ad-interim injunction and other urgent reliefs as sought would be in order. 24. Accordingly, the following directions are passed:- 25. Issue notice. 26. Mr. Rohin K, learned counsel appears and accepts notice on behalf of
 defendant no.1 by virtue of advance service. Learned counsel stated that the
 infringement alleged against the defendant no.1 shall be removed/taken down
 forthwith by the defendant no.1 which according to him, was not intentional. 27. Having regard to the statement made on behalf of the defendant no.1, the
 defendant no.1 is directed to comply with directions mentioned in para 24
 above forthwith, and file an affidavit of compliance within 15 days from date.
 An advance copy thereof shall be furnished to the learned counsel for the
 plaintiff. 28. Let a reply to this application be filed by remaining defendants within
 four weeks from service. Rejoinder, thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 10 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50
 thereafter. 29. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of CPC shall be done within ten
 days from date. CS(COMM) 198/2026 30. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 31. Upon filing of the process fee, issue summons of the suit to the
 defendants through all permissible modes. 32. The summons shall state that the Written Statement shall be filed by the
 defendants within 30 days from the date of the receipt of summons. Alongwith
 the Written Statement, the defendants shall also file Affidavit of
 Admission/Denial of the documents of the plaintiff, without which the Written
 Statement shall not be taken on record. 33. Liberty is granted to the plaintiff to file Replication, if any, within 30
 days from the receipt of the Written Statement. Along with the Replication
 filed by the plaintiff, an Affidavit of Admission/Denial of the documents of
 defendants be filed by the plaintiff, without which the Replication shall not be
 taken on record. 34. In case any party is placing reliance on a document, which is not in their
 power and possession, its details and source shall be mentioned in the list of
 reliance, which shall also be filed with the pleadings. 35. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the same
 shall be sought and given within the prescribed timelines. 36. List before the Joint Registrar (Judicial) on 05.05.2026 for completion of
 service and pleadings. 37. List before the Court on 03.09.2026. TUSHAR RAO GEDELA, J
 FEBRUARY 27, 2026
 Sumit/rl CS(COMM) 198/2026 Page 11 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/03/2026 at 20:45:50