SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. The instant Public Interest Litigation has been filed for a Writ of

 Mandamus forbearing the respondents from any manner putting up

 construction or altering the nature of water body in S.No.645/5, measuring

 19 acres, Ward No.14, Thirumullaivaayal Village, Avadi Taluk, Tiruvallur

 District. 2. The petitioner would contend that the property in S.No.645/5

 measuring 19 acres Ward No.14, Thirumullaivaayal Village, Avadi Taluk,

 Tiruvallur District, is classified as “Ambattur Aeri Ulvai”. According to him,

 the respondents are taking steps to construct a public waste dumping yard,

 which is contrary to law. The petitioner has contended that the public

 waste dumping yard is on the tank bed. The petitioner has submitted that if
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 the water bodies are encroached or converted for any other purpose,

 storage of water would be affected and also the environment. 3. The 4th respondent, the Commissioner of Land Administration,

 Ezhilagam Building, Chepauk, Chennai, filed a Counter Affidavit. According

 to the 4th respondent, the proposed yard is not on the tank bed. It is only in

 Aeri Ulvai, which is not a tank bed. The construction is not under the water

 body. In any event, it is submitted that 75% of the Aeri Uluvai has various

 structures. The relevant portion of the Counter reads as under:- 4. Heard the learned counsel appearing for both parties and perused

 the materials available on record. 5. Having a proper waste management is one of the biggest challenges

 which is being faced by any Municipality. Courts can take judicial notice of

 the increase in the industrial, commercial and residential waste. Due to

 rapid urbanization, virtually no space is available for dumping waste. Similar

 issues have been raised before this Court in Writ Petitions challenging

 conversion of the park to micro compost yard. This Court, by its order dated

 08.11.2017 in W.P.No.26704, 25653 and 26720 of 2017 in the case of

 Janakar Vs. The Commissioner, Hosur Municipality, Hosur, has observed

 as under:- contained to prevent any spread of decaying matter or
 leachate into the surrounding environment.
http://www.judis.nic.in 12 17. Private lawns or public parks are not a
 luxury, as they were considered in the past. Public Park is
 a gift of modern civilization and that reservation of vacant
 land as an open land is in conformity with the rules and
 regulations for formation of the layout and is meant for
 public use and enjoyment and it cannot be disputed that
 Open Space Reserve is treated as lung space. 18. The Apex Court has categorically held that
 where open space is preserved and earmarked in the plan
 for development of a planned town, the authorities cannot
 ignore the public interest and allot the same for
 construction of godowns, thereby causing environmental
 hazards. Ecology has been completely destroyed by human
 beings by encroaching OSR, playgrounds, river bunds,
 lakes, etc. But the official respondents must ensure that
 the waste has to be disposed of in a scientific manner. In a
 developing country, technicalities should not be a bar for
 development. 19. When a public park is a gift of modern
 civilization, Open Space Reserve is the lung space and
 setbacks are for the purpose of rain harvest, Micro
 Compost Yards are essential for disposal of the waste, so
 that it will not endanger the health of the citizens, more
 particularly, children, who are likely to be affected on
 account of mosquitoes, flies, etc, which cause air borne
 and water-borne diseases. When citizens want
 development, certainly, they will have to co-operate for
 the betterment of the environment and ensure that no
 pollution is caused on account of their attitude in
 disposing of the waste from their respective residence.
 Though, strictly speaking, Development Rules have come
 into effect in 1975 and that the layout in question was
 approved in 1972, there is no hard and fast rule that there
 cannot be any development at all. 20. Residents/citizens cannot expect the
 authorities to identify a different place far away from the
 place of residence to have a Compost Yard and that there
 is a possibility of the residents of that area to object for
 setting up of a Compost Yard for disposal of the waste

http://www.judis.nic.in 13 which are not generated from their residence. 21. Now that the Government has come up with
 effective policies in segregation of wastes of all kinds,
 people are expected to welcome such measures and must
 co-operate with the authorities in maintaining a healthy
 environment. Even though garbage bins are set up in every
 street, it is painful to see people throw garbage near the
 bin and not into the bin. From stone-age, we have come
 to the modern era. Certainly development is required for
 our betterment and hence, technicalities should not come
 in the way that may be detrimental to the development of
 the Society. 22. In view of the above and taking into account
 the submissions of the 1st respondent/Municipality that
 the Micro Compost Yard, that is to be set up in the
 Playground in question, will be neatly maintained without
 any pollution and that only a meagre portion of the
 Playground is required for setting up of Micro Compost
 Yard, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the
 impugned tender notice published by the 1st
 respondent/Municipality. 23. It is made clear that if the Micro Compost Yard
 that is to be set up in the Playground in question is not
 maintained properly, the officials, who are in-charge of
 that place during the relevant period shall be dismissed
 from service, on the ground that the Officer has failed to
 maintain absolute integrity, devotion to duty and that he
 has done the work of unbecoming of a member of his
 service. 8. The cause of construction of the compost yard is for a valid

 public purpose. It is for the Municipality to decide where the compost yard

 should be situated. There is nothing on record to indicate that it is on the

 tank bed. There is nothing to show that Aeri Uluvai is classified as a part of

 tank bed and therefore, no construction is permitted. The Counter
http://www.judis.nic.in 14 specifically stated that even railway bridges and railway lines have been

 constructed on the area. The area, therefore, cannot be classified as tank

 bed. The Court cannot run the Government. 9. The issue of disposal of the solid waste and garbage is taking

 enormous proportions. The available land is shrinking fast and no land is

 available. The Municipality cannot dump garbage into another Municipality. In view of the shrinking space, it is for the Municipality to earmark/locate

 proper area for the purposes for establishing such places for dumping. The

 Court cannot close its eyes to the fact that wherever there is no proposal to

 establish Solid Waste Management Plant, residents of the area raised

 disputes. The construction of the Solid Waste Management Plant is for a

 public purpose. It is for the benefit of the locality. The Counter quoted

 supra categorically brings out the scientific method, which is being put to

 use for construction of such plants. The Solid Waste Management Rules,

 2016, in detail explain as to how areas are demarcated and how this Plants

 have to be maintained. The Pollution Control Board monitors the functioning

 of such plant. It is not for the Court to decide as to which area should be

 used or not, for the purpose of establishing Plants, if there is no violation. The facts stated in the counter that the proposed Plant is not on the tank

http://www.judis.nic.in 15 bed, are not controverted in the rejoinder. 10. In the Public Interest Litigation, we are not inclined to

 interfere with the establishment of the Solid Waste Management Plant,

 which is for public purpose. In the result, this Writ Petition is dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous

 petition is closed. Thiruvallur District, Thiruvallur – 602 001. 2. The Commissioner,
 Avadi Municipality, Avadi, Chennai – 54. 3. The Thasildar, Avadi Taluk, Avadi. 4. The Commissioner of Land Administration,
 Ezhilagam Building, Chepauk, Chennai – 5. http://www.judis.nic.in 16 S.MANIKUMAR, J. and
 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. asi/pkn W.P.No.18569 of 2018 W.M.P.21914 of 2018

 10.12.2018

http://www.judis.nic.in