1. This is an action for infringement of trade mark and for passing

 off. 2. The case of the Plaintiff is that the Plaintiff had applied for

 registration of its trade mark on 3 rd January, 2018 on proposed to be

 Shubham 1 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

used basis and had secured registration on 2 nd November, 2019 of the

word mark "TRACKON" in Class 1 in respect of "Fertilizers, Plant

Nutrients, Organic Manures, Manures, Organic Fertilizers, Biofertilizers,

Compost, Biochemical Catalyst, Plant Growth regulating preparations,

chemicals used in Industry, Agriculture, Horticulture and Fertilizers." 3. On 7th May, 2021, the Plaintiff applied for registration of the

trade mark "TRACKON GOLD" in Class 1 and was granted registration

on 2nd November, 2021. At the time of filing the applications for

registrations, the name of the Plaintiff Company was "Sulphur Mills

Limited" and w.e.f. 18th October, 2022 the Plaintiff's Company name

was changed to "SML Limited". Accordingly the Plaintiff filed Form TM-

P for recording the name change and the registration of the word

marks are thereafter reflected in the name of "SML Limited". 4. In the last week of November-2024, the Plaintiff came across the

Defendant's application for registration of the impugned word mark

"TRACKON" in Class 5 in respect of "Pesticides, insecticides, fungicides,

herbicides, vermicides, rodenticides, weedicides, Preparations for

killing weeds and destroying vermin, disinfectants and poisons" with a

user claim of 16th August, 2020, upon its publication in the Trade Mark

Journal No. 2167 on 29th July, 2024. On 27th November, 2024, the

Plaintiff filed its Opposition No. 1363130 to the grant of registration of

impugned mark in favour of the Defendant. 5. It is submitted that the Plaintiff conducted market search to

procure the Defendant's goods bearing the impugned mark after the

filing of opposition on 27th November, 2024, however, the Plaintiff did

not come across any impugned goods bearing the impugned mark. The

Plaintiff was therefore under bona fide belief that in view of the

Opposition the Defendant's must have stopped use of impugned mark

and did not adopt any immediate action. 6. The Registrar of Trade Marks vide its notice dated 18 th March,

2025 forwarded to the Plaintiff, the copy of the Defendant's counter

statement dated 28th January, 2025, asserting its right to the impugned

mark. It is submitted that the Plaintiff once again conducted search in

market and in April-2025, the Plaintiff for the first time came across

the Defendant's product i.e. a Selective Insecticide sold under the

impugned mark "TRACKON". On 8th April, 2025, the Plaintiff procured a

sample of the infringing product from M/s. Fasal Suraksha Kender, New

gain Market Shop No. 73A Mandi Dabwali, Haryana - 125104. It is

submitted that upon general search of the internet the Plaintiff came

across the Defendant's website however the infringing product

bearing the impugned mark is not listed on the Defendant's website

and is listed on 3rd party website i.e. www.indiamart.com. 7. It is submitted that in the past, action for infringement was

instituted by the Plaintiff against the Defendant in respect of the

Shubham 3 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

Plaintiff's another registered mark "PEARL" , in which the Defendant

submitted to a decree on admission. It is submitted that the Defendant

is habitual infringer of several other marks of third parties and is

suffering injunction in those proceedings. 8. The Defendant by its affidavit-in-reply dated 27 th May, 2025 has

set out that its incorporation is of the year 1991 and it is in the

business of marketing various agrochemicals including herbicides,

weedicides, fungicides, and insecticides, boasting of product line of

over 120+ goods. The Defendant conceived and adopted the mark

"TRACKON" in the year 2020, and has been continuously, extensively

and uninterruptedly using the same since its adoption. Prior to the

adoption of the mark, the Defendant had conducted a search and had

not found any such mark existing in the market. The Defendant is an

honest and concurrent user of the mark and bonafide adopter of the

trade mark since past 5 years and to demonstrate the goodwill and

reputation enjoyed by the Defendant, the sales figure and expenses

incurred towards the packaging have been set out. 9. The defence is that the Defendant's use of its trade mark is in

respect of products different from the Plaintiff's products. It is

submitted that there is no likelihood of confusion in view of the vast

price difference and the difference in the trade dress, product getup &

colour combination of the rival products. 10. It is further submitted that the Plaintiff has suppressed its stand

taken before the trade mark registry in the examination report citing

the mark "TRICON" that the trademark "TRACKON" and the cited mark

"TRICON" are not visually, phonetically, and structurally similar and

that the goods for which the cited marks are registered are dissimilar

ruling out any likelihood of confusion amongst the public. The further

defence taken is of delay and acquiescence contending that the

Plaintiff had knowledge about the Defendant since atleast 2024. 11. In the rejoinder Affidavit, it is contended that there is no case of

suppression or estoppel as the cited mark "TRICON" does not belong

to the Defendant and is not the same as the impugned mark i. e. 12. By an additional affidavit-in-reply of Defendant, the invoices filed

Shubham 5 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

by the Plaintiff are assailed as false and fabricated as the invoices of

the year 2018 onwards bears the name "SML Limited (formerly Sulphur

Mills Limited)" as it is Plaintiff's own case that the Plaintiff's name was

changed to SML Limited only on 18th October, 2022. 13. The Plaintiff's additional affidavit-in-rejoinder annexes the user

affidavit filed in support of its trade mark application with the

illustrative sales invoices of the year 2018. An explanation has been

tendered about the use of an ERP software which results in the re-

generated invoices bearing the changed template. To demonstrate

genuineness of the invoices, it is submitted that the re-generated

invoices bears the unique IRN number generated while making

payment of GST. In addition, the respective ledger accounts for the

relevant periods maintained by the Plaintiff are also annexed to the

additional affidavit-in-rejoinder. SUBMISSIONS: 14. Mr. Kamod, learned Counsel for the Plaintiff points out the

registration certificates, the invoices, the sales and promotional figures

to substantiate the Plaintiff's claim of being prior user and registered

proprietor of the trade mark "TRACKON". He submits that the

Defendant's application for registration is subsequent on 3 rd February,

2023 with the user claim since 16th August, 2020, which has not been

substantiated as the invoices annexed are from September, 2022. He

Shubham 6 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

submits that the Defendant's mark has been duly opposed. He submits

that the Defendant is aware of the Plaintiff's existence since in the

earlier infringement proceedings, the Defendant has submitted to

decree on admission. He submits that there is no question of any delay

or acquiescence as there is no positive act on part of the Plaintiff and it

is well settled the delay by itself is no defence in infringement action.

He submits that in any event it is only in the last week of November-

2024 that the Plaintiff came across the Defendant's trade mark

registration and the suit has been filed in April-2025. 15. He submits that the Defendant has not tendered any explanation

for adoption of the identical mark "TRACKON" which is an arbitrary

mark. He submits that there was no search conducted by the

Defendant in the trade mark registry before adopting the mark, which

is at the Defendant's own peril. He submits that there is no question of

estoppel or suppression as the conflicting mark cited at the time of

Plaintiff's registration was "TRICON" whereas in the present case the

marks are identical. 16. He would submit that the marks are identical, the consumer

base are farmers and rival products are likely to be sold through the

same trade channels. He submits that under the provisions of Section

29(2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 ("T. M. Act"), even if there is

likelihood of association with the Plaintiff's mark, a case of

Shubham 7 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

infringement is established. He submits that the difference in the

packaging is immaterial in case of infringement of the trade mark. He

submits that there is no question of any honest and concurrent user

firstly as Section 12 of T.M. Act is not a defence in infringement action

and secondly the the Defendant's documents shows user since

September, 2022 and there is no honesty in adoption. In support he

relies upon following decisions: 17. Per contra, Mr. Vutts, learned Counsel for the Defendant would

submit that the word "TRACKON" is an arbitrary word coined and

adopted by the Defendant. He submits that the Defendant is not fly by

night operator and has been incorporated in the year 1991 having

product line of over 120+ goods. He submits that in August-2020, the

1 2002 SCC OnLine Bom 1138
2 1992 SCC OnLine Bom 490. Defendant adopted the mark and points out to the user affidavit at

page 197 of the Plaint and the invoice at Page 198 of August, 2020. 18. He submits that the Plaintiff's claim of user since the year 2018 is

doubtful as the invoices annexed bears the name of "SML Limited" 19. He would further submit that there is suppression as the stand

taken in the examination report is not part of the plaint. He submits

that the Defendant had conducted a search in respect of Class 5 goods

and the Plaintiff's mark was not found. He would further submit that

the products are packaged differently and there is huge price

difference between the two products and there is no question of any

confusion. He further submits that the comparison of the rival goods

would indicate that the labels, trade dress, product, getup & colour

Shubham 9 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

combination are entirely different. He submits that there is no

confusion as the Plaintiff's products are fertilizers whereas the

Defendant's products are insecticides. He submits that by reason of the

earlier decree on admission, it cannot be accepted that the Defendant

is habitual infringer. He submits that there is no equity in Plaintiff's

favour and considering the use of the mark by the Defendant since the

year 2020, the balance of convenience is not in favour of the Plaintiff.

In support, he relies upon following decisions: 20. In rejoinder, Mr Kamod would submit that the Plaintiff has

submitted a valid explanation in respect of the invoices bearing the

mark "SML Limited" and there is no fabrication. He submits that the

Defendant's dishonesty is evident from the fact that the Defendant's

other marks except "TRACKON" are placed on its website and there is

no denial to the said fact in the replies. He submits that the

rectification application by the third parties have been disclosed and

there is no challenge to the validity of the Plaintiff's mark. He submits

as the word marks are identical, passing off is established. He submits

that question of balance of convenience is to be considered only in

exceptional cases. REASONS AND ANALYSIS:- 21. There is no debate that the rival marks are phonetically,

structurally and visually identical i.e. "TRACKON" and "TRACKON

GOLD" vs. "TRACKON". The mark "TRACKON GOLD" comprises of the

word "TRACKON" as its leading essential and prominent feature and

the Defendant's impugned mark copies the essential feature of the

Plaintiff's registered mark. The Plaintiff had applied for registration of

its trademark "TRACKON" in Class 1 on 3rd January, 2018 with user

claim of proposed to be used and secured registration on 2 nd

November, 2019 and "TRACKON GOLD" on 2nd November, 2021. The

Shubham 11 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

Defendant applied for registration of its trade mark "TRACKON" in

Class 5 on 3rd February, 2023 with user claim since 16th August, 2020,

which registration is opposed by the Plaintiff. 22. Section 29 of T.M. Act, 1999 governs the infringement of the

trade mark and sub section (2) of Section 29 covers infringement

involving allied/cognate goods and services and reads as under: 23. For an injunction to follow by reason of Section 29(2)(a) of T.M.

Act, 1999, it is necessary to decide the aspect of similarity of goods

before turning to the issue of likelihood of confusion or likely

association with the registered trade mark. To put it simply, the

threshold question to be decided is whether the Plaintiff's and the

Defendant's goods are allied and cognate. The dictionary meaning of

the word "allied" is "relating in subject or kind" and "cognate" as having

Shubham 12 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

common ancestor or origin. In the case of Corn Products Refining Co.,

vs. Shangrila Food Products Ltd.,17 it has been held that cognate

goods/services can be described inter alia as goods or service which

have trade connection as in glucose and biscuits which were the rival

products in that case . Allied and cognate goods are those goods which

are intended for the same consumer base as they are complementary

to each other. 24. The Defendant seeks to raise the defence of classification of the

rival goods in different classes to avoid liability of infringement. The

position in law qua the classification list is well settled. In case of Allied

Auto Accessories Ltd. vs. Allied Motors Pvt. Ltd (supra), the Learned

Single Judge of this Court held that the well settled position is that the

guidelines or classification lists which are published by the Trade Mark

Registry are only administrative guidelines and do not constitute

binding determinations on the proper classification of goods. 25. British Sugar Plc. v. James Robertson & Sons Ltd 18 identified

the following objective tests to be applied for deciding whether the

goods are of the same description: 17 AIR 1960 SC 142
18 [1996] R. P. C. 281

Shubham 13 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc (d) The respective trade channels through which the goods

 or services reach the market; (e) In the case of self-serve consumer items, where in

 practice they are respectively found or likely to be found in

 supermarkets and in particular whether they are, or are

 likely to be, found on the same or different shelves; and (f) The extent to which the respective goods and services

 are in competition with each other : that inquiry may take

 into account how those in trade classify goods, for instance

 whether market research companies, who of course act for

 industry, put goods or services in the same or different

 sectors." 26. Closer home, in Indchemie Health Specialities (P) Ltd vs Intas

Pharmaceuticals Ltd19 the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court held

that it is not sufficient to go merely by the classification against which

registration may have obtained. The classification may be one of the

considerations, but it cannot be the sole consideration. It held that the

usual criteria for determining whether the rival products are of similar

description include the nature and composition of the product, their

respective uses and functions and the trade channels through which

they are generally traded. The three need not even concurrently co- 27. Applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case

the following position would emerge: Summarized in common parlance, the Plaintiff's products are

 fertilizers used in plant growth whereas the Defendant's

 products are utilized for eliminating pests which harm plant

 growth. Fertilizers enhance the plant growth by providing

 essential nutrients whereas the pesticides control or

 eliminate pests that harm crops. (b) Respective Uses: Fertilizers and pesticides are both

 agrochemicals used in agricultural sector for improving the

 crop yield; one by supplying nutrients to the soil and plants to

 improve growth and yield and the other to eliminate pests for

 purpose of enhanced crop yield. In that respect, the rival

 products are complementary in the agricultural sector. (c) Respective Users and trade channel: The relevant

 consumer base are farmers and usually fertilizers and

 pesticides are retailed at common shop which cater to

 comprehensive farmers needs and are sold through the same

 trade channels. It is settled that the one of the considerations for examination of

similarity of goods is from the business and commercial point of view.

The commonality of purpose of fertilizers and insecticides

demonstrates a strong trade connection and apparent similarity and

association between the Plaintiff's products and Defendant's products. 28. Having passed the threshold test of similarity of the goods, the

aspect of likelihood of confusion on part of the public and likely

association with the Plaintiff's goods requires consideration. The issue

of likelihood of association with the Plaintiff's registered trade mark

would have a nexus with the reputation acquired by the Plaintiff as the

continued long user by the Plaintiff of its registered mark in respect of

Plaintiff's product would result in achieving certain degree of

distinctiveness. Prima facie, the use of an identical mark by the

Defendant would naturally result in an association with the Plaintiff's

goods mark by an average consumer with imperfect recollection. 29. In order to demonstrate its reputation and goodwill the Plaintiff

has annexed Chartered Accountant Certificate which certifies that the

total turn over of the Plaintiff's product "TRACKON" for the financial

year 2018-2019 to 2024-2025 is in the range of Rs. 6,37,52,869/-.

Considering the sales figure which has been placed on record prima

Shubham 16 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

facie the Plaintiff's trademark has acquired reputation and goodwill in

the market and the cumulative effect of the identical mark and the

commercial trade connection between the Plaintiff's and the

Defendant's goods is likely to lead the average customers to mistake

the Defendant's goods as that of the Plaintiff. Even if the difference in

packaging of the rival products might mitigate the likelihood of

confusion, the likely association with the Plaintiff's registered trade

mark is prima facie satisfied. In the present case the Plaintiff is an early

entrant in the market and the relevant consumer base are farmers who

are likely to get confused when confronted with the Defendants

product which also relates to the agricultural sector and prima facie

would associate the Defendant's product with that of the Plaintiff

considering the identical mark. It cannot be said to be an uncommon

phenomenon that an entity dealing in fertilizers would foray into the

pesticide sector being agrochemicals. 30. The trademark "TRACKON" coined by the Plaintiff is an arbitrary

mark which is an inherently distinctive mark and by reason of the

continuous and uninterrupted use since the year 2018 is prima facie

associated with the Plaintiff's products. Prima facie, the goods of the

Plaintiff and the Defendant being commercially connected are similar

in nature and there is identity of trade making out a case of

infringement is under Section 29 (2) of the T.M. Act. The aspect of

Shubham 17 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

difference in trade-dress pricing are irrelevant considerations in

infringement action. 31. Coming to the defences, one of the defence is of prior user and

to substantiate the same, the contention raised is that the invoices

annexed to the plaint are fabricated. The Plaintiff in order to

substantiate the use of its mark since the year 2018 has relied upon the

sales invoices for the period from April-2018 at Exhibit- A-1 to A-31 of

the plaint. The Defendant has assailed the claim of user of the mark by

the Plaintiff since the year 2018 by contending that the invoices

annexed to the plaint have been fabricated for the purpose of filing

the suit. The contention is that the invoices of the year 2018 bears the

name"SML LTD (Formerly-Sulphur Mills Limited) whereas the admitted

position is that the name of the Plaintiff was changed from "Sulphur

Mills Limited" to "SML Limited" only on 18th October, 2022 and

subsequently in the year 2023 the Plaintiff filed form TM-P for

recording the name change which registrations thereafter reflects the

name of "SML Limited". To respond to the said contention, the Plaintiff

has submitted an explanation in its rejoinder affidavit that in the year

2018, the Plaintiff was using ERP Software called "SAP ECC module",

for generating invoices and under this software the Plaintiff could

change the format/template of the invoices generated by the Plaintiff.

Pursuant to the change in the name in October-2022, the template of

Shubham 18 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

the invoice was changed as appearing Exhibit A-1 to A-19 and after the

change of name, invoices if generated or reprinted for the period prior

to October-2022 would be in the template set out in Exhibit A-1 to A- 19. It is further explained that the Plaintiff upgraded its software

version in January-2023 and modified the invoice template to reflect

the format as shown in Exhibit A-21 to A-31. The averments prima facie

explains the reason for the changed template of invoices and the

conclusive finding about the genuineness of the invoices can be arrived

at only after evidence is led. 32. The Plaintiff has however not based its contention of

genuineness of invoices only on the explanation and has further

annexed the invoices filed along with the user affidavit while applying

for registration of its mark which invoices are of the year 2018. In order

to demonstrate the sample invoice, if regenerated today, by using the

earlier software, the same invoices which were annexed along with

affidavit user would reflect the changed template after change of the

name. Prima facie it appears that due to the use of the software, upon

regeneration of the invoice of prior period, the invoice would be

printed in the template used upon the change of the name. 33. Further Mr. Kamod, has also pointed out that upon the

registration of invoice on the GST website portal a unique invoice

reference number is embedded with each invoice and when the said

Shubham 19 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

number is juxtaposed with the invoice at page 81 which is invoice of

29th June, 2021, though the invoice at page 81 reflects the changed

name the IRN number is the same. The Plaintiff has also produced the

respective ledger account for the relevant period referring to the

respective invoices. The material which has been brought on record by

the Plaintiff is sufficient at this stage to prima facie demonstrate the

use of the mark since the year April-2018. 34. To escape the liability of infringement, the prior use by the

Defendant is required to be demonstrated from a date prior to the use

of the first mentioned trade mark or date of registration of the first

mentioned trade mark, whichever is earlier. It is the Defendant's own

stand of user since the year 2020 and even if the Plaintiff's registration

date is considered, the Plaintiff's adoption is prior in point of time. The

defence of Section 34 of T.M. Act, 1999 is not available to the

Defendant. 35. Dealing next with the issue of suppression by the Plaintiff of the

examination report issued by the Registrar of Trade Mark at the time

of the registration of Plaintiff's mark, the cited mark in that case is

"TRICON" whereas in the present case the mark is identical i.e.

"TRACKON". The cited mark "TRICON" is not identical to the impugned

mark and therefore the stand taken by the Plaintiff in the examination

report was not a material fact to be pleaded. The non disclosure of the

Shubham 20 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

examination report does not amount to suppression so as to disentitle

the Plaintiff to the interim relief. It needs to be noted that the Plaintiff

has disclosed the application filed by a third party for rectification of

the Plaintiff's registered trade mark. 36. On the aspect of delay, the contention of Mr. Vutts is that the

Plaintiff was aware of the use of the Defendants mark since atleast

November-2024. It is well settled the delay by itself is not ground in an

action for infringement. In Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. v. Sudhir

Bhatia 20 the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that in case of infringement

either of trade mark or copyright, normally injunction must follow and

mere delay in bringing the action is not sufficient to decline the grant

of injunction in such cases. In Jagdish Gopal Kamath v. Lime & Chilli

Hospitality Services21 , this Court in the context of infringement of

trade mark considered the submissions of delay and balance of

convenience. The Co-ordinate bench held that in such cases, delay on

its own, unaccompanied by acquiescence, is no answer to an

application for an injunction in an action in infringement and passing

off. The Co-ordinate bench noted the decision of Delhi High Court in Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. India Stationery Products 22 in paragraph

33 as under : : AIR 1990 Delhi 19 has also held that delay by itself is not a
 sufficient defence to such an action especially where the use by
 the defendants is fraudulent. ... ... .................In Hindustan
 Pencils, the Delhi High Court considered the question of
 acquiescence and held that, in law, the question arises where the
 proprietor of a mark, being aware of his rights, and being aware
 that the infringer may be ignorant of them, does some
 affirmative act to encourage the infringer's misapprehension so
 that the infringer worsens his position and acts to his detriment.
 A mere failure to sue without a positive act of encouragement is
 no defence and is no acquiescence. A defendant who infringes
 the plaintiffs' mark with knowledge of that mark can hardly be
 heard to complain if he is later sued upon it. A defendant who
 begins an infringement without searching the trade marks
 register is in no better a position. One who does take a search,
 finds the plaintiffs' mark and nonetheless continues his act of
 infringement is, however, certainly much worse off. Certainly he
 cannot allege acquiescence. That door is closed to him." 37. The doctrine of delay was held by itself not to be sufficient

defence to an action for infringement especially where the use by

Defendant is fraudulent. The Plaintiff has specifically pleaded that the

infringing product is not listed on the Defendant's website, which is

not disputed. There is no explanation for the clandestine manner in

which the Defendant is dealing with its product bearing the impugned

mark. The pleading is that the Plaintiff became aware of the

Defendant's existence in last week of November, 2024 and on 27 th

November, 2024, the Plaintiff filed its opposition to the registration.

The suit has been filed on 16 th April, 2025. It is settled that mere failure

to sue without a positive act of encouragement is no defence and is no

Shubham 22 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

acquiescence. The Defendant was well aware of Plaintiff's existence as

there was prior action initiated for infringement of trade mark and

having infringed the registered trade mark with full knowledge the

Defendant cannot be heard on the question of delay. There is no

defence of acquiescence available and delay by itself without

acquiescence cannot constitute valid defence in an action for

infringement. 38. The contention of honest and concurrent use does not assist the

case of the Defendant as Section 12 of the T. M. Act, 1999 dealing with

honest and concurrent use permits registration of the mark by more

than one proprietor. Section 12 of T.M. Act, 1999 cannot constitute a

defence in an action for infringement. In any event there is no

concurrent use as the Plaintiff had adopted the trade mark in the year

2018 whereas the Defendant had adopted mark in the year 2020.

Pertinently the Defendant was aware of the existence of the Plaintiff

and in the earlier round of litigation had submitted to decree on

admission which imposed an added responsibility on the Defendant to

ensure that the mark adopted by the Defendant does not in any

manner infringe on the Plaintiff's registered mark. It is not shown that

such caution was exercised by the Defendant before adopting the mark

in the year 2020. There is no explanation tendered in the affidavit-in-

reply for adoption of an identical arbitrary mark which is unconnected

Shubham 23 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

with the product of the Defendant. In such circumstances it cannot be

said that the adoption of the mark is bonafide or honest. The reliance

on Section 12 of T.M. Act, 1999, if permitted, would strengthen the

Plaintiff's case as registration of identical/similar mark is permitted in

such case in respect of same or similar goods or services and would

thus constitute an admission that the Plaintiff's and Defendant's goods

are similar. In my view, the Plaintiff has prima facie made out case of

infringement of its registered trade mark and where there is

infringement of registered mark, injunction must follow. (See Ruston &

Hornsby Ltd vs Zamindra Engineering Company ) (supra). 39. The Plaintiff had commenced the use of the mark in the year

2018 whereas the Defendant has adopted the mark in the year 2020.

There is no justification for adoption of an identical mark by the

Defendant despite being aware of the Plaintiff's existence in light of

the prior litigation. In case of registered trade mark, a statutory

protection is afforded under the T.M. Act, 1999 . As it has been held

that prima facie the consumers may identify the Defendant's goods as

that of the Plaintiff, in event the injunction is not granted, the Plaintiff

will suffer irreparable loss by way of damage to the reputation and

goodwill. The subsequent adoption of the identical trade mark by the

Defendant in the year 2020 was at the Defendant's own peril. The

balance of convenience therefore tilts in favour of the Plaintiff. 40. The Plaintiff also seeks injunction against the Defendant from

passing off its goods as that of the Plaintiff. It is probable that even if

the rival marks are identical, there is difference in the trade dress that

no passing off could be alleged. It is settled that the intent of the

Defendant is not necessary and it is enough for the Plaintiff to satisfy

the trinity test of goodwill, misrepresentation and damage. The

relevant date to consider the reputation and goodwill acquired by the

Plaintiff in respect of its mark is the date of adoption by the Defendant

i.e. in the year 2020 and it has to be shown that the Plaintiff's mark has

acquired such distinctiveness that the consumers identify the

registered mark with the Plaintiff's product. The sales turnover duly

certified by the Chartered Accountant for the year 2020-2021 is Rs

1,66,59,110/- and there is no further material to demonstrate the

distinctiveness achieved by the Plaintiff's registered mark. 41. In case of Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna

Pharmaceuticals Laboratories,23 the Hon'ble Apex Court held in

paragraph 28 as under: 42. The contention of the Defendant is that the goods are packaged

in a manner which sets apart the Defendant's goods from that of the

Plaintiff and therefore there is no likelihood of causing confusion. The

Defendant has tendered a comparative chart showing the Plaintiff's

and Defendant's use of the mark "TRACKON". The rival products are

reproduced herein below. Comparison of the Plaintiff's and Defendant's Products

Shubham 27 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc 43. The comparison of the rival products would show that the

Plaintiff uses the mark "TRACKON" and "TRACKON GOLD" along with

pictorial representation of the crops in a circular shape whereas the

Defendant's product bears a different pictorial representation in

rectangle label shape. The colour combination and the depiction of the

mark "TRACKON" in the rival products is completely different. There is

difference in the physical appearance as there is no similarity of

general get-up/trade dress/colour scheme of the products. The

question to be asked as set out in Ruston & Hornsby Ltd. vs.

Zamindara Engineering Co. , (supra) is whether the Defendant is

selling the goods so marked as to be designed or calculated to lead

purchasers to believe that they are the Plaintiff's goods. Upon overall

comparison of the rival packaging/trade dress/layout, the consequence

of the apparent dissimilarity in the packaging/trade dress of the rival

products is that no prima facie case of passing off is made out. Prima

facie it cannot be said that the Defendant has designed its product in a

manner so as to pass off its goods as that of the Plaintiff. The added

material are sufficient to distinguish the goods of the Defendant from

that of the Plaintiff. In my view, there is no prima facie case of

misrepresentation made out by the Plaintiff and therefore prima facie

case of passing off is not made out. 44. Coming now to the decisions cited by Mr. Vutts, in case of Mandali Ranganna vs. T. Ramachandra (supra) the Hon'ble Apex

Court set out the tests to be satisfied while granting injunction laying

emphasis on the conduct of the parties. There is no quarrel with the

said proposition and in the present case in my view the conduct of the

Plaintiff would not disentitle the Plaintiff to grant of interim relief. 45. The next decision in the case of S. P. Chengalvaraya Naidu

(Dead) by Lrs. vs. Jagannath (Dead) by Lrs (supra) is landmark

decision laying down that fraud vitiates all acts. The decision of Chandra Shashi vs. Anil Kumar Verma (supra) is again on the issue of

fraud. Once this Court has come to prima facie conclusion that the

invoices produced by the Plaintiff are not forged or fabricated the said

decisions are inapplicable to the facts of the present case. 46. The next decision of Rubaljit Singh vs. M/s. Kanz Overseas

(supra) was rendered by the Delhi High Court in an infringement

action. It is in the facts of that case, the Court came to finding that the

documents relied upon by the Plaintiff have been fabricated. In the

present case, the discussion above would indicate that sufficient

explanation has been tendered by the Plaintiff in respect of the

invoices produced on record and the said decision does not assist the

case of the Defendant. 47. The decision in the case of Poly Medicure Limited vs. Polybond

Shubham 29 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

India Pvt. Ltd. , (supra) was relied upon to support the contention that

there was suppression by Plaintiff and that being so the Plaintiff would

not be entitled to any relief. In that case, the stand taken by the

Plaintiff before the Registrar of Trade Mark in response to the

examination report was as regards the comparison of the marks as a

whole and not in parts. The Plaintiff acquired registration of series of

mark with the prefix 'poly' and sought to restrain the Defendant from

using the word 'poly' as prefix to its mark. Before the Registrar of

Trademark, the stand taken by the Plaintiff was that the marks were

required to be compared as a whole which was in variance with the

stand taken by the Plaintiff in the plaint. In the present case the marks

are identical i.e. "TRACKON" and the reply to the examination report by

the Plaintiff was in respect of mark "TRICON" and therefore there was

no suppression. 48. The next decision in the case of Phonepe Pvt Ltd vs. Resilient

Innovations Pvt. Ltd (supra) dealt with the prosecution history

estoppel. The Plaintiff's mark was 'PhonePe' whereas the Defendant's

mark was 'BharatPe'. The Court took into consideration the shifting

stands adopted by the Plaintiff therein as the Plaintiff claimed

exclusivity in 'Pe' and also claimed that the suffix 'Pe' had acquired

distinctiveness and secondary meaning and in the suit the Plaintiff had

taken a contrary stand. It is in that context that this Court denied the

Shubham 30 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

interim injunction by applying the principle of prosecution history

estoppel. As noted above, the mark cited as conflicting with that of the

Plaintiff's mark was "TRICON" and the said decision is distinguishable

on facts. 49. In the case of Unichem Laboratories Ltd vs. Ipca Laboratories

(supra) the learned Single Judge of this Court also applied principle of

prosecution history estoppel to deny the interim relief. 50. The decision in the case of Wander Ltd & Anr. vs. Antox India P.

Ltd (supra) lays down the test which are required to be satisfied before

grant of interim injunction. There is no quarrel with the said

proposition. 51. The decision in the case of Nandhini Deluxe vs. Karnataka

Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited (supra) arose out of

rectification proceeding. In that case the Respondent adopted the

mark Nandini for selling milk and milk product and got registration

under Class 29 and 30 whereas the Appellant was in business of

running restaurant and adopted the mark Nandhini for its restaurant.

The Hon'ble Apex Court considered that the goods of the Appellant are

different from that of the Respondent and that the word 'Nandhini' is

generic term and not an invented or coined word. The Hon'ble Apex

Court further found that the manner in which they are trading by the

parties respectively, it was difficult to imagine that the average man of

Shubham 31 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

ordinary intelligence would associate the goods of the Appellant as

that of the Defendant. In the present case this Court has come to prima

facie finding that the goods of the Plaintiff and the Defendant are

traded through the same trade channel and that there is likelihood of

association of the Defendant's goods with that of the Plaintiff. 52. In the case of AMPM Designs, vs. Intellectual Property

Appellate Board (supra), the proceedings arose out of the rectification

application. The learned Single Judge in that case considered the

decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Nandhini Deluxe vs.

Karnataka Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited (supra)

and held that there is no principle of law that once trade mark is

registered in respect of goods/services falling in one class it would be

impermissible to have the registration of trademark, where there is

prior user of the trademark though the nature of goods and services is

different. The learned Single Judge has upheld that the registration of

similar trade mark in case of different goods or services where a prior

user of the trade mark is shown. In the present case the admitted

position is that the Defendant adopted its mark in the year 2020 by

which time the Plaintiff had obtained registration of its mark and

defence of prior user is not available. 53. In the case of Cadila Health Care Ltd vs. Cadila Pharmaceuticals

Ltd (supra) the Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down the test to be

Shubham 32 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

applied in an action for passing off for deciding the question of

deceptive similarity. There is no quarrel with the said proposition. 54. In the case of Star Bazaar Pvt. Ltd. vs. Trent Ltd (supra) the

Delhi High Court considered the case of the Appellant seeking

injunction against use of the same trade marks "Star Bazaar" was of

prior user. The Delhi High Court declined to grant injunction on the

ground that both are bonafide concurrent users of the mark Star

Bazaar. In that case the Delhi High Court was considering the

requirement for grant of temporary injunction in case of passing off. 55. The principle of law which are laid down in the quoted decisions

cannot be debated, however, in the case of an infringement of trade

mark and passing off by applying well settled test, each case has to be

decided on its own merits. Applying well settled test to the facts of the

present case, in my view the Plaintiff has made out prima facie case for

grant of injunction restraining the Defendant from use of the

registered mark "TRACKON". In so far as the passing off action is

concerned the added material is sufficient to distinguish the goods of

the Defendant from that of the Plaintiff and no case for passing off is

made out. 56. In light of the above discussion, on the aspect of infringement,

use of identical trade mark by the Defendant prima facie infringes the

Plaintiff's registered trade mark. In so far as the aspect of passing off is

Shubham 33 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 ::: final IA-2515-2025.doc

concerned, the Plaintiff has failed to make out a prima facie case. It

cannot be accepted prima facie that by use of the identical mark with a

different trade dress, the Defendant is attempting to pass off its

product as that of the Plaintiff. The Interim Application is hence

allowed in terms of prayer clause (a)(i) which reads as under: [Sharmila U. Deshmukh, J.]

Shubham 34 of 34 ::: Uploaded on - 22/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 22/09/2025 21:33:53 :::