% 26.07.2024
 I.A. No. 34465/2024 (Exemption from filing certified copies) 1. The present is an application under Section 151 of the Code of Civil CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 1 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:30
 Procedure, 1908 (" CPC ") seeking exemption from filing original/certified
 copies, documents in vernacular/clear copies and permission to file
 copies/dim documents without translated documents and documents without
 prescribed margin. 2. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 3. Applicant shall file legible, clear, and original copies of the
 documents on which the plaintiff may seek to place reliance, within four
 weeks from today or before the next date of hearing, whichever is earlier. 4. Accordingly, the present application is disposed of.
 I.A. No. 34467/2024 (Application to file additional documents) 5. The present application has been filed on behalf of the plaintiffs under
 Order XI Rule 1(4) of the CPC , 1908 as amended by Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , read with Section 151 CPC, seeking liberty to file additional
 documents at the appropriate stage. 6. The plaintiffs, if they wish to file additional documents at a later
 stage, shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 and the DHC (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 7. Accordingly, the present application is disposed of.
 I.A. No. 34468/2024 (Exemption from advance service to defendant no. 8. The present is an application under Section 151 CPC seeking
 exemption from service to defendant no. 1. 9. Since there is an urgency in the matter, and the same is being heard
 today, plaintiffs are exempted from serving advance notice on the defendant
 no. 1. 10. For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed and CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 2 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:30
 disposed of. I.A. No. 34469/2024 (seeking permission to file electronic
 documents/evidence in form of CD(s)) 11. The present is an application under Section 151 CPC seeking
 permission to file electronic documents/evidence in form of CD(s)
 containing videos. 12. Rule 24 of Chapter XI of the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules,
 2018, makes it clear that electronic records can be received in
 CD/DVD/medium encrypted with a hash value. 13. Accordingly, Registry may receive electronic record on CD-
 ROM/DVD, so long as it is encrypted with a hash value or in any other non-
 editable format. The video recording contained in CD-ROM be placed in the
 electronic record of the present suit in a format which is non-editable, so that
 the same can be viewed by the Court during hearing. 14. The application is allowed and the plaintiff is granted liberty to file
 the CD(s) with the registry after supplying copies to the parties. 15. Application is disposed of accordingly. I.A. No. 34470/2024 (Exemption from service to defendant nos. 10, 11
 and 14) 16. The present is an application under Section 80(2) read with Section
 151 CPC seeking exemption from service to defendant nos. 10, 11 and 14. 17. Learned counsels appearing for the defendant nos. 10, 11 and 14 have
 put in appearance. 18. As such, the present application is rendered infructuous, and
 accordingly is disposed of. I.A. No. 34466/2024 (seeking exemption from undergoing Pre- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:31
 Institution Mediation) 19. The present is an application under Section 12A of the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015 read with Section 151 of CPC for exemption from
 undergoing Pre-Institution Mediation. 20. Having regard to the facts of the present case and in the light of the
 judgment of Supreme Court in the case of Yamini Manohar versus T.K.D.
 Keerthi , 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1382, and Division Bench of this Court in
 Chandra Kishore Chaurasia Versus RA Perfumery Works Private Ltd.,
 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3529, exemption from undergoing Pre-Institution
 Mediation, is granted. 21. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of.
 CS(COMM) 613/2024 22. Let the plaint be registered as suit. 23. Issue summons. 24. Summons are accepted, by learned counsels appearing for defendant
 nos. 5, 10, 11 and 14. 25. Upon filing of the process fee, issue summons to the other defendants
 by all permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written statement be
 filed by the defendants within thirty days from the date of receipt of
 summons. Along with the written statement, the defendants shall also file
 affidavit of admission/denial of the plaintiffs‟ documents, without which, the
 written statement shall not be taken on record. 26. Liberty is given to the plaintiffs to file replication within thirty days
 from the date of receipt of the written statement. Further, along with the
 replication, if any, filed by the plaintiffs, an affidavit of admission/denial of
 documents of the defendants, be filed by the plaintiffs, without which, the CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 4 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:31
 replication shall not be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek
 inspection of the documents, the same shall be sought and given within the
 timelines. 27. List before the Joint Registrar (Judicial) for marking of exhibits on
 18th September, 2024. 28. List before the Court on 06th November, 2024. I.A. No. 34464/2024 (Application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC ) 29. The present suit has been filed for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement of trademark, infringement of copyright, passing off, dilution,
 rendition of accounts, act of unfair competition, misrepresentation, fraud,
 damages etc. 30. Learned counsel appearing for the plaintiffs submits that the plaintiffs
 had filed the present suit being aggrieved by the fraudulent, fake and illegal
 investment schemes being floated by unknown persons/defendant no. 1 on
 the internet, under the registered and well-known trademark/trade name of

 the plaintiffs being "HAVELLS",
 and their variants. 31. It is submitted that the plaintiffs became aware of the about the same
 only on or around 03rd July, 2024, when plaintiff no.1 received a complaint
 from its customer in respect of an amount deposited by him in purported
 money making scheme of HAVELLS. The plaintiffs, while being surprised
 and shocked by such news, duly clarified that they have no association
 whatsoever with such schemes. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:31 32. It is submitted that in order to gather more information in this regard,
 the plaintiffs conducted a thorough online search and were shocked to learn
 that certain unknown persons are using the name of the plaintiffs to lure the
 members of public, to invest a substantial sum of monies in the above illegal
 investment scheme. 33. It is submitted that by impersonating the plaintiffs in running such
 fraudulent, fake and illegal investment schemes, these unknown persons are
 inviting monetary investments from general public, with a promise to
 provide an assured positive return within a specified period of time, nearing
 to almost double the invested amount. 34. Thus, it is submitted that having regard to the enormous goodwill and
 reputation earned by the plaintiffs, especially on account of the fact that the
 plaintiffs, through their predecessor, have been in the business of electrical
 goods since the year 1942, the members of public believe that these illegal
 investments schemes are being directly floated and managed by the
 plaintiffs. 35. Thus, the members of public have been investing substantial amount
 of their hard earned money, with an expectation to get higher returns.
 However, the said public is falling victim to the scams of these fraudsters
 and the money they have invested is only unlawfully enriching these
 unknown persons, with no prospective of any return at all, nor even refund
 of the money deposited. 36. It is submitted that these fraudsters are soliciting payment of money
 from the public in the wake of investments and before the maturity date.
 Further, the defendant no. 1, after making the website/mobile application
 dysfunctional, may initiate the same illegal scheme through a different CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 6 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:31
 domain name/website/mobile application thereby, making themselves
 invisible, to be caught. 37. It is submitted that the defendant no. 1 on 25 th June, 2024 had
 obtained registration for an infringing domain name being www.havells-
 share.com (https://m.havells-share.com), whereby, the said fraudulent
 investment scheme has been made accessible to the users/investors. The
 WHOIS data of the offending domain name's registrant details shows
 "Registrant State/Province as HAVELLS". Further, the website/domain
 name can also be used to download a mobile application namely, „Havells‟/
 „Havells Earning App‟ for the customers to manage and control their
 purported investments. 38. It is submitted that perusal of the infringing website as also the mobile
 application, makes it evident that the fraudsters are encashing upon the
 goodwill and reputation of the plaintiffs, by prominently adopting and
 displaying the trademark, trade name and logo of the plaintiffs

 "HAVELLS", . 39. Attention of this Court has been drawn to the document to show the
 screenshots of the infringing website and various mobile
 applications/websites being used by defendant no. 1 to dupe the public, the
 same are reproduced as below:- 40. It is submitted that in addition to the said websites and mobile
 applications, defendant no. 1 is also actively and openly promoting the said
 fake and illegal investment schemes through multiple social media platforms
 such as YouTube, which is defendant no. 5, Telegram-defendant no. 6,
 WhatsApp-defendant no. 7, Facebook-defendant no. 8. These fraudsters are
 creating various groups/channels on these platforms for dissemination of
 false and incorrect information in respect of these scams, to mislead and lure
 the public to invest their hard earned money in such scams. 41. It is submitted that defendant no. 1 in order to give an impression to CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 10 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 the public that the groups/channels on social media platforms are genuine
 and owned by the plaintiffs, have in a prominent manner, also adopted the
 name and logo of the plaintiffs. The screenshots of the activity of defendant
 no. 1 on Telegram, Facebook and other websites, are reproduced as under:- 42. Attention of this Court has been drawn to the screenshots of the
 infringing videos, as occurring on YouTube. 43. It is submitted that these imposters in order to attract more eye-balls
 and lure different sections of the society, are also engaging the services of
 various social media influencers and marketers, with significant
 followers/subscribers, for promotion of their illegal investment schemes. 44. It is also submitted that the plaintiff contacted one of the content
 creators who informed that one person with mobile number +91-
 8698896664 approached him for uploading the video content in respect of
 the illegal schemes and the impugned website/mobile Application. It is CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 16 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 submitted that as a result of large scale advertisements and promotion of the
 subject matter of fraudulent and illegal investment schemes by defendant
 no.1, through the platforms of defendant nos. 5-8, various third parties,
 including content creators, have been uploading multiple videos/posts on
 YouTube and X, whereby, the viewers are being tutored with respect to the
 use and working of the said investment schemes. 45. It is submitted that the trademark „HAVELLS‟ is invented/coined
 word which in fact, has also been declared as a well-known mark. Therefore,
 the mark of the plaintiffs is entitled to the highest degree of protection. The
 trade mark/name „HAVELLS‟ is a unique trademark, which has been coined
 from the first five letters of the first name of the plaintiffs predecessor Late
 Sh. Haveli Ram Gandhi, in the year 1942 and has been extensively used as a
 trade mark ever since. 46. The various websites used by the defendant no. 1 are anonymous in
 nature i.e., it is virtually impossible for the plaintiffs to locate the owners of
 such websites or contact details of such owners, as the information available
 in the public domain is either incomplete, incorrect and/or protected behind
 a veil of secrecy. Many of such websites hide behind domain privacy
 services offered by various organizations. Thus, it is submitted that unless
 the domain registrars and domain privacy services of the respective websites
 are directed to disclose the details of the owners of said websites, impleaded
 as defendant no.1, it is impossible to get the address, location and contact
 details of the owners of the impugned websites. 47. It is submitted that since the plaintiffs are unable to police each and
 every act of the infringers/fraudsters, therefore, the present suit has been
 filed against the impugned website and mobile application, whereby, illegal CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 17 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 investment schemes, are being floated by defendant no.1. 48. It is submitted that the acts of defendants in illegally and in an
 unauthorized manner, adopting the plaintiffs‟ trademark and incorporating
 the same as part of their infringing website and mobile application for
 promoting their illegal investment schemes, is blatantly a dishonest act of
 passing off. The public at large being extremely familiar with the mark of
 the plaintiffs „HAVELLS‟ is bound to be confused and deceived into
 believing that the illegal investment schemes are being floated by the
 plaintiffs. Thus, it is submitted that the purpose of these scheme is to cheat
 the general public and extract their hard earned money. Therefore, the acts
 of the defendant no.1 are causing/likely to cause irreparable damage to the
 reputation of the plaintiffs and the negative repercussions of the same could
 be enormous. 49. Thus, in view of the above, considering the submissions made before
 this Court, the plaintiffs have established a prima facie case in their favour.
 The balance of convenience also lies in their favour and against defendant
 no. 1, in as much as the defendant no. 1 has blatantly copied the name and
 trademark of the plaintiffs, with an ulterior motive to dupe the members of
 the general public to invest their hard earned money in fake, fraudulent and
 illegal investment schemes. 50. Further, considering the submissions made before this Court and
 perusing the documents on record, this Court is of the view that grave and
 irreparable injury will be caused to the plaintiffs, as the action of the
 defendant no. 1, undoubtedly would lead the general public to believe that
 the illegal investment schemes are controlled by the plaintiffs 51. Considering the aforesaid, the following directions are passed:- and/or any other identical/deceptively similar mark, either as domain
 names/website/mobile applications/trademark/logo or otherwise in relation
 to any illegal investment/promotional/marketing scheme, so as to result in
 infringement/passing off of the plaintiffs‟ registered trademarks and
 copyrights and intellectual property rights. 47.3 Defendant no. 1 (and such other entities/individuals which are
 discovered during the course of the proceedings to have been engaging in
 infringing the plaintiffs intellectual property rights) are directed to
 immediately delete all the groups/posts, uploaded on the platforms of
 defendant nos. 5-9, wherein information is being disseminated by it or/and
 by others acting in concert with it, about the illegal investment schemes and
 impugned website/mobile application using the impugned mark/name logo/ CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 19 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 device HAVELLS, of the
 plaintiffs. 47.4 Defendant nos. 6 and 7, are directed to provide complete disclosure of
 account information (Identification, Name, Phone Number, e-mail, address
 etc.) of person/entity who/which are the creator/administrator and/or are part
 of the impugned groups/chats/channels, as detailed in the list of impugned
 URLs, reproduced in paragraph 41 of the present application.
 47.5 Defendant nos. 6 and 7 are directed to immediately take down/remove
 from their platforms all instances of the groups, posts, videos, links, etc.
 posted by the defendant no. 1 and the other third parties, including, the
 content creators containing any information about the impugned website/
 mobile application using the impugned mark/name logo/device HAVELLS,

 of the plaintiffs, as detailed in the
 list of impugned URLs, reproduced in paragraph 41 of the present
 application. 47.6 Defendant nos. 8 and 9, are directed to immediately take down/
 remove from their platforms all instances of the groups, posts, videos, links,
 etc. posted by the defendant no. 1 and the other third parties, including, the
 content creators containing any information about the impugned website/
 mobile application using the impugned mark/ name logo/device HAVELLS, CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 20 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 of the plaintiffs, as detailed in the
 list of impugned URLs, reproduced in paragraph 41 of the present
 application. Further, directions are issued to defendant no. 5 to inform the
 uploaders of the various YouTube channels, the details of which are
 provided in para 41 of the present application, to take down/remove all the
 infringing videos/links which are provided in para 41 of the application
 within 48 hours from 27th July, 2024. In case, the said videos, links are not
 taken down/removed by the respective uploaders, then, defendant no. 5 shall
 take appropriate steps in that regard. In case, the said posts/videos/links are
 not taken down/removed by the respective uploaders, the same shall be
 removed by the defendant no. 5, immediatly after intimation from the
 plaintiffs in this regard. 47.7 Defendant nos. 10 and 11 are directed to issue a notification calling
 upon the various internet and telecom service providers registered under it,
 to block access to the website www.havells-share.com (https://m.havells-
 share.com), or such other websites that may subsequently be notified by the
 plaintiffs, to be infringing. 47.8 Defendant no. 12, their directors, partners, proprietors, officers,
 affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or
 agent, acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or
 under it, is directed to provide complete disclosure/block/freeze of the KYC
 details of the accounts/UPI-ID-maksund668@sbi or any other account
 number/UPI ID, that may be subsequently provided by the plaintiffs and/or
 the defendants, being used by the defendant no. 1 for receiving money in CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 21 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32
 respect to illegal investment schemes. 47.9 Defendant No.13 and their directors, partners, proprietors, officers,
 affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of principal or
 agent, acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone claiming through, by or
 under it, is directed to provide complete disclosure/immediately block, the
 KYC details of the phone number +91-8698896664 used by the defendant
 no. 1 imposters or any other number provided by the plaintiffs and/or the
 defendants being used by the defendant no. 1, for their activities infringing
 the plaintiffs‟ exclusive rights. 52. Issue notice to the defendants by all permissible modes, upon filing of
 process fees, returnable on the next date of hearing. 53. Reply, if any, be filed within a period of four weeks from the date of
 service. 54. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within a period of two weeks,
 thereafter. 55. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC , be done, within a period
 of 10 days, from today. 56. List on 06th November, 2024. MINI PUSHKARNA, J
 JULY 26, 2024
 c CS(COMM) 613/2024 Page 22 of 22 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 30/07/2024 at 00:55:32