02.12.2025 1. All the three applications arising out of the same case FIR bearing No.

 0135/2025 of Police Station, Ramnagar are taken up together for passing of
 2 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 common order for the sake of convenience. The matters are, accordingly,

 clubbed together. 2. Objections have been filed by the respondents in all the three matters. The

 Investigating Officer of the case is also present along with Case Diary file

 concerned. 3. Through the medium of these applications having been filed in terms of the

 provisions of Section 482 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023

 (hereinafter referred to as 'BNSS' for short), pre-arrest bail in favour of the

 petitioners in the aforementioned case FIR No. 0135/2025 of Police

 Station, Ramnagar under Sections 316(5), 318(4), 336(2), 338, 336(3),

 340(2), 61 BNS, has been sought almost on the identical grounds to the

 effect that they are law abiding citizens of the India and domiciles of Union

 Territory of J&K commanding great respect in the society. That the

 petitioner Parshotam Kumar Joshi has already retired as Executive

 Engineer from PWD(R&B) Division, Ramnagar when the other petitioners

 Bishan Dass Malhotra and Sansar Singh are still in Government service

 discharging their functions as Accounts Officer and Executive Engineer

 PWD (R&B) respectively. That they are innocent having no criminal

 antecedents and are being unjustly harassed by the Investigating Agency

 with a view to falsely implicate them in the case FIR and to cause their

 unnecessary arrest. That their unnecessary and unjustified arrest in the case

 is likely to violate their personal liberty and to humiliate and disrepute

 them in the estimation of the public in general and their respective

 departments in particular. That the FIR in question bearing No. 0135/2025

 dated 25.08.2025 under Sections 316(5), 318(4), 336(2), 338, 336(3),
 3 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

340(2), 61 BNS has been registered by the respondent No.2 against one

Akhil Singh MTS on the complaint of the Executive Engineer PWD (R&B)

Ramnagar, Udhampur with the allegations of the embezzlement of money

from the complainant's division. That the petitioners are being harassed in

one way or the other despite the fact that they have been attending all the

verbal directions being made at the behest of respondent No.2/I.O. That

they have not been accused as per the complaint/FIR as there is no question

of their involvement in the case FIR. That the complainant Executive

Engineer PWD (R&B), Division, Ramnagar has already communicated to

respondent No.2/I.O, that as per his initial enquiry, the aforesaid Akhil

Singh MTS was found to have forged the invoice in the name of his

relative who upon being caught led to the reverse entry of the amount

involved in the complainant's official account. That the said accused Akhil

Singh MTS upon being arrested confessed during the investigation that he

has been doing such fraudulent practices within last two years by

replacing/forging the names of the payees. That the petitioners are innocent

as they have been defrauded by the said Akhil Singh MTS and some other

office bearers who were needed to be believed in good faith for smooth

functioning of the official work. That the internal departmental enquiry has

not also pointed towards any culpable role of the petitioners. That they

were already on the interim pre-arrest bail passed by the Court of learned

Principal Sessions Judge, Udhampur vide his order dated 15.11.2025. That

they were fully cooperating with the Investigating Officer while being on

the interim pre-arrest bail. That unfortunately the learned Principal

Sessions Judge, Udhampur dismissed their anticipatory applications
 4 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

through a common order dated 26.11.2025 upon being influenced by the

gravity of the offences without appreciating the real fact that there is no

money trail directly or indirectly linked to the petitioners. That the whole

family of the petitioner Parshotam Kumar Joshi who has retired as

Executive Engineer PWD (R&B), Ramnagar in May this year has been

suffering from a great mental trauma on account of his continued

harassment. That the respondents have seized all the related records which

were not otherwise in custody or possession of the petitioner and as such,

there is no necessity of any custodial questioning of the petitioners. That

the petitioners have no control or access over the official record which is

lying in the department of the complainant, treasury and the bank

concerned. That the petitioner Bishan Dass Malhotra, who was in fact posted

as Assistant Accounts Officer in BDO Office, Udhampur was having

additional charge of JKPCC Unit, Udhampur as also of R&B Division,

Ramnagar. That besides he was also appointed as liaison officer relating to

the Court cases in the High Court and CAT. That the said petitioner Bishan

Dass Malhotra assumed his additional charge as Accounts Officer (R&B)

Division, Ramnagar on 22.12.2023 when on 29.01.2024 he had informed

the then Executive Engineer regarding non-maintenance of the office

record/accounts books which information he repeated by the remainders

dated 16.05.2024 and 18.10.2024. That the said petitioner Bishan Dass

Malhotra was required as per order dated 18.03.2025 of Executive

Engineer PWD, Division Ramnagar to attend his office every day which

was immediately on 19.03.2025 objected by him on the grounds mentioned
 5 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

in the aforedated communication. That it is the said petitioner Bishan Dass

Malhotra who in essence brought the matter of financial irregularities into

the knowledge of the concerned Executive Engineer. That the trail of entire

money which has been embezzled was traced as the same had been after

fraudulent withdrawals deposited/transferred into different accounts of the

persons who had been found involved in the first instance and put under

suspension. That out of the total number of 76 invoices, twelve invoices

which were made use of in the name of petitioner Bishan Dass Malhotra

were forged and his signatures thereon were also forged as the said

petitioner was not present on the said date in the R&B Division Ramnagar

which fact is evidenced by the attendance sheet itself. That the rest 64

invoices do not bear the signatures of the said petitioner Bishan Dass

Malhotra. That the petitioner Bishan Dass Malhotra is still in Government

service and any unnecessary arrest of the said petitioner will have

catastrophic consequences for him and his family. That the seriousness of

the crime committed is to be seen in the light of any role attributed to the

said petitioner. That the petitioner Sansar Singh is still in Government service

posted as Executive Engineer PWD (R&B), who has a long unblemished

career at his credit. That there is no mala fide involvement of the said

petitioner in the alleged crime. That he along with his entire family shall

suffer an irreparable loss in terms of his reputation and service career in

case of his unnecessary and unjustified arrest. That the petitioners shall

fully cooperate with the Investigating Agency as and how directed and

shall abide by any conditions that may be imposed by this Court. 6 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 4. The respondents have filed their objections in all the three bail petitions

 and have resisted the same on the grounds that the case FIR in question

 bearing No. 0135/2025 of Police Station Ramnagar pertains to large scale

 embezzlement in the office of the Executive Engineer, PWD (R&B),

 Division Ramnagar during the periods, the present petitioners were posted

 at the responsible positions of Executive Engineers and Accounts Officer

 and their involvement in the case FIR is well founded. That the prime

 accused Akhil Singh MTS of the concerned office has stated in his written

 representation to the Chief Engineer PWD R&B concerned that the role of

 the present petitioners who were mainly associated with the work of

 authorization, approval and passing of vouchers cannot be under estimated.

 That the chain of the embezzled amount is under investigation and it is yet

 to be ascertained where the embezzled amount has finally gone. That the

 criminal conspiracy having been shared by the present petitioners is clearly

 evident in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case as the

 embezzlement does not pertain to a solitary or some rare incidents. That the

 embezzlement of more than one Crore of public money during a period of

 two years cannot be without the active participation and involvement of the

 present petitioners who were at the helm of affairs during the relevant

 period. That the documents regarding the embezzled payments were in the

 first instance authorized and scrutinized by the petitioners against the

 genuine liabilities with their signatures thereon and after passing of the

 vouchers, the authority letters regarding payment of money from the

 official account of the Executive Engineer, PWD (R&B) Division,

 Ramnagar were forged under conspiracy with the replacement of the names
 7 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

and account numbers of the payees. That no financial records had been

maintained in the office of the complainant for the last two years which

created suspicion and led to the unearthing of the embezzlement scam. That

a detailed enquiry by the complainant i.e Executive Engineer, PWD (R&B)

Division, Ramnagar and later by a committee constituted by the Chief

Engineer and Superintending Engineer revealed that Akhil Singh MTS had

forged around 70 invoices over two years diverting more than ₹1.20 Crore

to unknown accounts instead of actual contractors. That Akhil Singh MTS

also admitted this fraud before the committee. That the Chief Engineer

suspended the Akhil Singh MTS, Kushal Singh and Rahul Sharma Junior

Assistants. That as per the statements recorded and the official record

recovered, seized and obtained during the investigation, it has clearly

emerged that the record was intentionally not maintained and was also not

properly checked by the concerned DDOs with the purpose of benefiting

themselves and others through wrongful means. That the conduct of the

petitioners in sleeping over the maintenance of the financial records clearly

depicts a major criminal conspiracy for embezzlement of the Government

funds. That the co-accused namely Anshuwal Singh S/o Ajeet Singh R/o

Amroh, Ramnagar, Nitin Abrol S/o Ramesh Kumar R/o Dhanwalt,

Ramnagar, Aryan Sharma S/o Romesh Kumar R/o H.No. 186, Ward No.

01, near SBI, Udhampur, Shreyas S/o Yog Raj R/o Satyalta, Ramnagar and

Vikas Sharma S/o Pritam Kumar R/o Kanah, Tehsil Ramnagar, District

Udhampur, were arrested in the case FIR after completing the legal

formalities. 8 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 That during the course of investigation, it has been established that

the present petitioners and the co-accused in their respective official

capacities in PWD R&B Division, Ramnagar acted in furtherance of

criminal conspiracy to facilitate large scale embezzlement of Government

funds by deliberately preparing fake invoices, executing fraudulent

transactions, and intentionally failing to maintain or verify mandatory

financial records. It has been found that the accused Sansar Singh, during

his tenure as Executive Engineer, had prepared and signed 22 fake

invoices, while accused Parshotam Kumar Joshi, also during his tenure as

Executive Engineer, had prepared and signed 47 fake invoices, thereby

causing wrongful loss to the Government of the Union Territory of Jammu

& Kashmir. That being Drawing and Disbursing Officers, both were solely

responsible for all financial transactions carried out under their authority;

however, as per the accountant's statement, the account records were not

maintained at all, clearly establishing intentional manipulation of the

financial system to commit fraud. The investigation further reveals that

accused Bishan Dass, serving as AAO, and accused Kushal Singh and

Rahul Sharma, serving as Junior Assistants (Bill Clerk/Record Keeper and

Cashier respectively), deliberately failed to maintain the official records

entrusted to them, thereby facilitating the creation, processing, and

execution of fraudulent transactions which were subsequently transferred

into multiple unknown accounts. That the scrutiny of the bank accounts of

the accused persons shows that numerous indirect and layered transactions

were executed from channels used for fake entries, raising a strong prima

facie apprehension that the embezzled funds were routed through hawala- 9 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

type networks using multiple bank accounts and UPI IDs, whose details are

yet to be fully ascertained. That the accused Akhil Singh, though appointed

as an MTS worker but assigned duties in the Accounts Section as a

computer operator, has been found involved in diverting a substantial

portion of the embezzled amount into the accounts of his friends and his

own brother, from which large sums were subsequently received back into

his accounts, including two direct transactions of ₹2,64,070/- from the

official account of the Executive Engineer. That he has also transferred

these amounts into multiple unknown accounts and received funds back

from such channels. That all the accused persons, whose anticipatory bail

has been cancelled, are required to be arrested as they have been

absconding since the cancellation of their anticipatory bail by the Hon'ble

Court Principal Sessions Judge, Udhampur, and are presently not

cooperating with the investigation, thereby obstructing further fact-funding.

That all the accused persons acted jointly and intentionally to obtain

wrongful gain from the embezzled government funds by manipulating

records, preparing fake invoices, executing fraudulent bank transfers, and

diverting the funds into multiple suspicious accounts. That considering the

sensitivity and enormity of the financial fraud, the volume of funds

embezzled, the multi-layered suspicious transactions indicative hawala

activity, and the requirement of a thorough, comprehensive, and

uninterrupted investigation to trace the complete money trial, it is

respectively submitted that granting bail to any of the accused at this stage

would seriously hamper the investigation, enable them to tamper with

evidence, influence witnesses, or frustrate the recovery of diverted funds. 10 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 That the petitioners being involved in serious embezzlement case

 do not deserve the concession of pre-arrest bail. That their custodial

 questioning is imperative in the facts and circumstances of the case for the

 logical investigation of the case. 5. I have heard the learned counsels for both the parties in respect of interim

 applications CrlM No. 2325/2025, CrlM No. 2324/2025, CrlM No.

 2326/2025. 6. The learned counsels for the petitioners in all the three cases submitted that

 the petitioners are innocent who have not committed the alleged offences.

 That their signatures in respect of some of the documents have been forged

 and the final authorization letters addressed to the bank have been forged

 by replacing the names and account numbers of the payees by the office

 bearers of the complainant's office including Mr. Akhil Singh MTS,

 Kushal Singh and Rahul Sharma, Junior Assistants. That the petitioners are

 in no way involved in the alleged offences because the embezzlements

 have taken place as a result of forging and fabrication of false documents. The learned counsels submitted that it is evident during the

 investigation of the case that Akhil Singh MTS was found to have forged

 the invoice and the authority slip who was also made to reverse the

 amounts. That the Investigating Officer has also ascertained the chain of

 the transaction and the present petitioners have not been found to have

 received any portion of the embezzled amounts in their own accounts or in

 the accounts of any of their relatives. The learned counsels contended that

 the Akhil Singh MTS who has confessed his guilt has not pointed any
 11 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 finger towards the involvement of the petitioners. It was further submitted

 by the learned counsels that the Investigating Officer so far has not been

 able to collect any iota of evidence pointing towards the culpability of the

 petitioners. The learned counsels contended that catching of the accused Akhil

 Singh MTS while forging the authority slip, lastly when the present

 petitioners had already left the complainant's division/office is clearly

 indicative of the innocence of the petitioners ruling out any alleged

 conspiracy on their part. The learned counsels submitted that in case of any

 connivance of the present petitioners in the matter, the Akhil Singh could

 not have repeated the fraud after the leaving of the petitioners from the

 R&B division, Ramnagar. 7. They contended that the petitioners are deeply rooted in the society and

 there is no question of their misusing the concession of bail. That they were

 already on anticipatory bail in the case FIR upto 26.11.2025. That the

 learned Principal Sessions Judge Udhampur dismissed the anticipatory bail

 applications of the petitioners on the ground of serious allegations against

 them warranting their arrest for finalization of the investigation. They

 submitted that the petitioners shall fully cooperate with the Investigating

 Officer as and how directed. They also submitted that the relevant record to

 be ascertained and scrutinized stand already seized by the Investigating

 Officer and there is not any kind of record in the possession of the

 petitioners. 12 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 8. The learned counsel further contended that since the petitioners were

 already on anticipatory bail and were associating with the Investigating

 Officer, therefore, there was no justification for dismissal of their bail

 applications. It was further contended by the learned counsel for the

 petitioners that in case the petitioners will be found involved in the

 offences, they shall face the trial, but as of now there is no inevitable need

 for their formal arrest. The learned counsels for the petitioners in support of

 their arguments placed reliance on the authoritative judgments of the

 Hon'ble Apex Court cited as " Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia & Ors vs State of

 Punjab ", 1980 Legal Eagle (SC) 178, Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs

 State of Maharashtra & Ors," 2010 Legal Eagle (SC) 976. 9. Per Contra, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the

 petitioners do not deserve the concession of pre-arrest bail as they are

 involved in serious financial offences. That the petitioners being posted at

 the positions of Executive Engineer and Accounts Officer have conspired

 to occasion large scale embezzlement of the public money of more than

 Rupees One Crore from the PWD (R&B) Division, Ramnagar Udhampur.

 He submitted that the guiding considerations already laid down by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court and various other Courts of the Country including this

 Court regarding consideration of an Anticipatory bail viz seriousness of the

 crime, impact of the crime on the society and the State, position of the

 accused, circumstances under which the crime is committed, nature of

 evidence, likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice do not favour the

 grant of bail. 13 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 10. The learned counsel for the respondents/UT further contended that pre-

 arrest bail is intended to protect those who genuinely apprehend their

 involvement in case of false and frivolous allegations. That the petitioners

 have been absconding after the dismissal of their anticipatory bail

 applications from the learned Sessions Judge, Udhampur. That the non-

 cooperation of the petitioners with the Investigating Officer is obstructing

 further fact finding. The learned state counsel in support of his arguments

 placed reliance on the authoritative judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court

 cited as " P. Chidambaram vs Directorate of Enforcement ", AIR 2019 SC

 4198, "Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy vs Central Bureau of Investigation ", AIR 2013 SC 1933, "Serious Fraud Investigation Office vs Nittin Johari

 & Anr ", AIR 2019 SC 4380, "State of Jharkhand vs Dhananjay Gupta @

 Dhananjay Prasad Gupta", (2024) 1 CriCC 524. He has also placed

 reliance on the order passed by a learned Coordinate Bench of this Court in

 Bail App No. 31/2024 titled "Ishvinder Singh Ranyal vs UT of J&K &

 Anr", decided on 02.03.2024. 11. Keeping in view the perusal of the applications in hand, objections filed in

 rebuttal and the consideration of the rival arguments advanced on both the

 sides, this Court in the facts and circumstances of the case is of the opinion

 that it may meet the ends of justice in case the petitioners are granted

 interim pre-arrest bail subject to some reasonable terms and conditions. 12. In view of the investigation so far conducted, the present petitioners have

 not been found to have received directly or indirectly any portion of the

 embezzled amount. No direct incriminating evidence has so far surfaced as

 against the present petitioners. The petitioners were already on
 14 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 Anticipatory bail for sometime during which period they are reported to

 have cooperated with the Investigating Officer. No official record is

 reported to be in the custody or possession of the petitioners. The

 petitioners are not presently posted in the complainant's Division as one of

 the petitioners namely Parshotam Kumar Joshi is reported to have retired

 when the other two petitioners are reported to be presently posted at

 different places. However, it is very needful to mention that there is

 evidence on record to the effect that the financial records were not being

 maintained properly and as per the procedure in the complainant's division

 during the tenure of the present petitioners. The Investigating Officer, who

 was present in the Court submitted that the investigation in the case is

 going on smoothly and he has to ascertain the trail of the entire embezzled

 money in connection whereof he has to collect the details from various

 banks regarding the transfer of the embezzled amount. 13. Of course, the role of each accused including the petitioners is needed to be

 ascertained during the investigation of the case, however, in the facts and

 circumstances of the case there appears to be no inevitable and compelling

 need for petitioners in custody. 14. The Hon'ble Apex Court in its Judgments cited as Siddharam Satlingappa

 Mhetre Vs State of Maharashtra decided on 02/12/2010, AIR 2011 SC 312

 and Sushila Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and Another

 decided on January 29, 2020 by a larger Bench 2020 SC online 98 has

 interpreted law on the subject of anticipatory bail with a very wide outlook

 and while interpreting the concept of liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of

 the Constitution of our country in a flexible and broader sense. The
 15 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 Hon'ble Apex Court has admittedly, in the Judgment cited as Siddharam

 Satlingappa Mhetre Vs State of Maharashtra , held the earlier law on the

 subject laid down in Chain Lal Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (1976) 4 SCC

 572; Salau-uddin Abdul Samad Heikh vs State of Maharastra AIR 1996 SC

 1042; K.L, Verma vs state and another 1996 (7) SCALE 20; Sunita Devi vs

 State of Bihar and another AIR 2005 SC 498; 2005 AIR (Criminal) 112; Adri Dharan Das vs State of West Bengal AIR 2005 SC 1057 and Naresh

 Kumar Yadoo vs Ravinder Kumar and others 2008 AIR (SC 218) decided

 on 23rd October 2007, as per incuriam. 15. It was held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the said Judgments that purpose

 of anticipatory bail is to uphold cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence

 that an accused person is presumed to be innocent till he/she is proved to be

 guilty and that Section 438 of Code (corresponding to Section 482 of

 BNSS) need not be invoked only in exceptional or rare cases. Discretion

 must be exercised on the basis of available material and facts of particular

 case. It has also been held in the said case that anticipatory bail cannot be

 granted for a limited period. Accused released on anticipatory bail cannot

 be compelled to surrender before trial Court and again apply for regular

 bail. It is contrary to the spirit of section 438 and also amounts to

 deprivation of personal liberty. Ordinarily, benefit of grant of anticipatory

 bail should continue till end of trial of that case unless bail is cancelled on

 fresh circumstances. That grant or refusal of bail should necessarily depend

 on facts and circumstances of the each case. 16. The following factors and parameters have been laid down for

 consideration while dealing with anticipatory bail. 16 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 (a) The nature and gravity of the accusation and the exact role of
 the accused must be properly comprehended before arrest is made; (b)The antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether
 the accused has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction
 by a court in respect of any cognizable offence; (c) The possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; (d)The possibility of the accused's likelihood to repeat similar or
 the other offences. (e) Whether the accusations have been made only with the object of
 injuring or humiliating the applicant by arresting him or her; (f) Impact of grant of anticipatory bail particularly in cases of large
 magnitude affecting a very large number of people; (g)The courts must evaluate the entire available material against
 the accused very carefully. The court must also clearly comprehend
 the exact role of the accused in the case. The cases in which
 accused is implicated with the help of section 34 and 149 of the
 Indian Penal Code, the court should consider with even greater
 care and caution because over implication in the cases is a matter
 of common knowledge and concern; (h)While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail, a
 balance has to be struck between two factors namely, no prejudice
 should be caused to the free, fair and full investigation and there
 should be prevention of harassment, humiliation and unjustified
 detention of the accused; (i) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering of
 the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; (j) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is
 only the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in
 the matter of grant of bail and in the event of there being some
 doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution in the normal course
 of events, the accused is entitled to an order of bail.
It is profitable to reproduce a relevant complex extract from the said
judgment as under:- 17 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 "....The inner urge for freedom is a natural phenomenon of every
 human being. Respect for life and property is not merely a norm or a
 policy of the state but an essential requirement of any civilized
 society. Just as the liberty is precious to an individual, so is the
 society's interest in maintenance of peace, law and order." 17. In another judgment of Sushila Aggarwal and others vs. State (NCT of

 Delhi) and another decided on 29th, January 2020 a larger bench of

 Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to inter-alia lay down the following

 guiding principles for consideration of the pre-arrest bail applications by

 the Courts: 18 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025

 tampering with evidence (including intimidating witnesses),
 likelihood of fleeing justice (such as leaving the country), etc.
 The Courts would be justified and ought to impose conditions
 spelt out in Section 437 (3) , Cr.PC [by virtue of Section 438 ]. (ii) The need to impose other restrictive conditions, would have to
 be judged on a case by case basis, and depending upon the
 materials produced by the State or the investigating agency.
 Such special or other restrictive conditions may be imposed if
 the case or cases warrant, but should not be imposed in a
 routine manner, in all cases. Likewise, conditions which limit
 the grant of anticipatory bail may be granted, if they are
 required in the facts of any case or cases; however, such
 limiting conditions may not be invariably imposed. (iii) Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as
 the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the
 applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether
 to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to grant or
 note is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if so, what
 kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed)
 are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the
 discretion of the court. (iv) Anticipatory bail granted can, depending on the conduct and
 behaviour of the accused, continue after filing of the charge
 sheet till end of trial. An order of anticipatory bail should not
 be blanket in the sense that it should not enable the accused to
 commit further offences and claim relief of indefinite
 protection from arrest. It should be confined to the offence or
 incident, for which apprehension of arrest is sought, in
 relation to a specific incident. It cannot operate in respect of a
 future incident that involves commission of an offence. (v) An order of anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or
 restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating
 agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who
 seeks and is granted pre-arrest bail. 19 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 18. List on 12.12.2025, for arguments in the main petitions and perusal of the

 CD file. 19. The Investigating Officer of the case shall submit a latest status report of

 the investigation in the case positively by the next date of hearing and shall

 also produce the CD file for perusal. 20. In the meantime, subject to any vacation/modification upon the

 consideration of objections/arguments and till next date of hearing before

 the Bench, SHO Police Station, Ramnagar/Investigating Officer of the case

 is directed that he shall in the event of the arrest of the

 applicants/petitioners namely Parshotam Kumar Joshi, Bishan Dass

 Malhotra and Sansar Singh in connection with the investigation in the case

 FIR No. 0135/2025 of his Police Station, release them from custody,

 subject to their furnishing of surety and personal bonds in the amounts of

 ₹2.00 lacs each (surety bonds to be furnished for each petitioner/accused

 by two persons from among their near relatives each liable in the amount of

 ₹1.00 lac), to his satisfaction for assuring the compliance of the following

 conditions:- 20 Bail Apps 342, 341 & 343/2025 iv) In case of any recovery from or at the instance of the
 petitioners/accused or any one of them, they or he shall be deemed to
 be in custody for the purposes of Section 23(2) of Bharatiya Sakshya
 Adhiniyam, 2023. (Mohd. Yousuf Wani)
 Judge
 Jammu
 02.12.2025
 Vijay Vijay Kumar 2025.11.01 03:31 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document