1. Relief sought

 The jurisdiction of this Court has been invoked under Section 482 of

The Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, seeking anticipatory bail to the petitioner

in case FIR No. 43, dated 13.03.2025, under Sections 318(4), 316(2), 336, 338,

336(2), 340, 61(2), 305 of BNS, registered at Police Station Lehra, District

Sangrur. 2. Prosecution story setup in the present case as per the version in the

FIR as under:- 3. Contention On behalf of the petitioner

 Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner has been

falsely implicated in the present case as there is no legal evidence against the

petitioner and the case is being given the colour of criminal activity. He further

contends that petitioner is at parity with his co-accused namely Avtar Krishan

Singh who has already been granted the concession of anticipatory bail by this

Court vide order dated 09.04.2025 (Annexure P-2). He also submits that the

petitioner is ready to join and cooperate in the investigation. On behalf of the State

 Mr. Jastej Singh, DAG, Punjab appearing on advance notice, on instructions

 7 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 17-04-2025 23:21:00 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:050136

CRM-M-20571-2025 - 8-

from the Investigating Officer, vehemently opposes prayer for grant of concession

of anticipatory bail stating that a fraud of Rs.25,47,925/- has been committed with

the complainant company as he alongwith others has duly participated in the

commission of the offence, and had sold the chicks of the company and

misappropriated the amount, therefore, prays for dismissal of the petition. 4. Analysis

 Be that as it may, after given a thoughtful consideration to the

submissions as made, by the counsel for both the parties, particularly to the effect

that petitioner as there is no legal evidence against the petitioner and the case is

being given the colour of criminal activity, the State Counsel is unable to produce

any incriminating material against him, hence, this Court finds no reason to deny

the petitioner the concession of anticipatory bail, wherein the petitioner has bona

fide intentions and is willing to join the investigation and cooperate for furtherance

of the same so that the final report can be submitted by the Investigating Agency

within the stipulated time period. 5. Relief

 In the light of above, the petitioner is directed to be released on

anticipatory bail subject to him joining investigation with the Investigating Officer

concerned within a period of one week from today, on furnishing of

personal/surety bonds to his satisfaction for the reason that custodial interrogation

of the petitioner is not required as it would be of no fruitful purpose to put the

petitioner behind the bars. The petitioner shall also abide by the terms and

conditions as envisaged under Section 482(2) of BNSS, which are reproduced

below:- 'When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction
 under sub-section (1), it may include such conditions in such
 directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may
 think fit, including- In the aforesaid terms, the present petition stands allowed.