The Private Complaint filed by the Complainant under Section 200 of Cr.P.C. against the accused alleging that they

have committed the offence punishable under Section 138 of

Negotiable Instruments Act. 2. The brief facts of the complaint are as follows: 3. Based on the complaint, the sworn statement affidavit,

and documents etc., took cognizance of an offence punishable

Under Section 138 of N.I. Act by following the guidelines of

Apex Court issued in Indian Bank Association case and ordered

to be registered a criminal case against the accused persons for

the offence punishable Under Section 138 of N.I. Act. 4. After issuance of summons, accused appeared before

the court and enlarged themselves on bail. Plea was recorded, 4 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 read over and explained to the accused persons, who pleads not

guilty and claims to be tried. Hence, the case is posted for

complainant's evidence. 5. The Complainant got examined himself as PW-1 and

got marked documents Ex.P.1 to Ex.P.6 and closed his side. 6. Accused were examined U/S 313 of Cr.P.C .

Incriminating evidence appearing in the complainant's evidence

was read over and explained to the accused who denies the

same. The 1st Accused got examined himself as DW1 and got

marked documents Ex.D.1 and 2 and closed his side. 7. Heard both sides. The learned Counsel for Complainant has placed the

following citation; 2023(5) KCCR Page 1084 Para 28 in the case of
 Boregowda V/s. Sri Subeda Bhanu 8. Upon hearing the arguments and on perusal of the

materials placed on record, the following points arise for my

consideration. 9. My findings on the above points is: 10. Existence of legally recoverable debt is a sine qua non

for prosecuting the case under Section 138 of Negotiable

Instruments Act. For convenient purpose the essential

ingredients to constitute offence under section 138 of N.I.Act is

summarized as below: 11. It is the core contention of the complainant that,

the first Accused was his friend and for his urgent need and

necessity, he had approached the Complainant to oblige him a

handloan of Rs.5 lakhs. Considering the request of the

Accused, he advanced handloan of Rs.5 lakhs to him. In order

to return the said amount, the Accused has issued his Cheque

bearing No.003896 dtd.18.8.2018 for Rs.5,00,000/- drawn on

ICICI Bank, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru in favour of

Complainant to discharge his legal debt and liability and the

said is maintained by the Complainant are in joint names of the

Accused persons, which came to be dishonoured with

endorsement "other reasons" on 30.8.2018. Thereafter the

Complainant got issued legal notice issued to both the

addresses of the Accused by RPAD on 5.9.2018, for demanding

payment to the value of Cheque within 15 days from the receipt

of notice and the same was served on the Accused on

12.9.2018. Despite receipt of the notice, the Accused have not

paid the Cheque amount. Hence, the Complainant has filed

present complaint against the Accused persons for the offence

punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I. Act. 12. In order to bring home the guilt of the accused,

Complainant got examined himself as PW1 and reiterated the

contents of complaint in his examination-in-chief. He has also

placed original Cheque bearing No.003896 dtd.18.8.2018,

bank endorsement at Ex.P2, office copy of legal notice issued

by the Complainant to the Accused on 5.9.2018 at Ex.P3,

postal receipt at Ex.P4, Ex.P5 is the postal track and Ex.P6 is

the postal acknowledgement. 13. The documents produced by the complainant of

course established that complainant meets out the procedural

requirements of Section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, but

it is to be considered whether all these documents establish the

offence committed by the accused. 14. The Negotiable Instruments Act raises two

presumptions. One contained in Section 118 and the other in Sec. 139 thereof. For the sake of convenience Sec 118(1) of the N.I. Act is extracted here below: Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made ;-- 1. To (g) . . . . . . . . . . . . Provided that where the instrument has been
 obtained from its lawful owner, or from an person in
 lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence of fraud,
 or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor
 thereof by means of an offence of fraud, or for unlawful
 consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is
 a holder in due course lies upon him". 15. Further Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act

reads as under: Scope and ambit and function of the presumption
 U/s 118(a) and Sec 139 of NI Act came to be considered
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court of Indian in Krishna
 Janardhan Bhat Vs Dattatraya G.Hegde (2008 9 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 AIAR (Criminal 151) The Supreme Court has laid
 down the law in the following phraseology. 16. Further, said decision was followed by Hon'ble High

Court of Karnataka in Kempanarasimhaiah Vs P.Rangaraju

& Others (2008 (5) KCCR 3371). Relevant paragraph of the

said judgment reads as under: - He may discharge his burden on the basis of the
 materials already brought on records (para 23) (iv) Standard of proof on the part of an accused and that of
 the prosecution in a criminal case is different. Further
 more where as prosecution must prove the guilt of an
 accused beyond all reasonable doubt, the standard of
 proof so as to prove a defence on the part of an
 accused is "preponderance of probabilities"(para 23 & 25) (v) Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be
 drawn not only from the materials brought on records
 by the parties but also by reference to the
 circumstances upon which he relies ( para 25) (vi) Other important principles of legal jurisprudence,
 namely presumption of innocence as human rights
 and the doctrine of reverse burden introduced by Section 139 should be deliberately balanced (para 34) 17. Thus from the observations extracted above, it is

clear that presumption Under Section 139 of the N.I. Act is only

to the extent that the cheque was drawn for discharge in full or 11 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 in part of any debt or other liability and the said presumption

do not relate to the existence of legally enforceable debt or

liability. Therefore, before drawing the presumption under Section 139 of the N.I.Act, it is the duty of the Court to see

whether or not the complainant has discharged his initial

burden as to existence of legally enforceable debt. No doubt, as

per Section 118(a) of the Act, there is a rebuttable presumption

that every negotiable instrument, is accepted, endorsed,

negotiated or transferred was accepted, endorsed, negotiated or

transferred for consideration." 18. Factual matrix of the case is required to be tested on

the anvil of principles emerging from the above-referred

decisions. 19. The defence taken by the Accused is that, towards

security purpose he issued cheque to the Complainant and

after repayment of amount, the Complainant has not returned

the cheque to him and misused the same. 20. To substantiate his claim the Complainant examined

himself as PW1. In the evidence he deposed that, Accused is

his friend and approached him for handloan of Rs.5 lakhs for 12 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 his urgent need and necessity. It is further deposed that,

considering the request of the Accused, Complainant had paid

Rs.5 lakhs to the Accused in which Rs.4,70,000/- transferred

to his account and Rs.30,000/- by way of cash. It is further

deposed that, to return of said amount, the Accused has issued

Ex.P1 cheque in his favour towards discharge of legally

recoverable debt. It is further deposed that, Ex.P1 cheque was

joint names of the Accused persons maintained by the Accused

in ICICI Bank. It is further deposed that, the Complainant has

been presented the cheque for encashment which was

dishonoured with reason "other reasons" as per Ex.P2. It is

further deposed that, thereafter the Complainant got issued

demand notice to the Accused as per Ex.P3 which was duly

served upon the Accused as per Ex.P 6. It is further deposed

that, despite of receipt of notice, neither the Accused has paid

the cheque amount nor reply the notice. 21. Considering the oral and documentary evidence

placed by the Complainant, prima facie presumed that, Ex.P1

was issued by the Accused towards discharge of legally

enforceable debt. To rebut the presumption, the learned 13 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 Counsel for Accused cross examined the PW1 in full length. In

cross examination he stated that, he is a Software Engineer and

getting annual income of Rs.14 lakhs. He further stated that

when he was at Sahakarnagar he oftenly visited the house of

Accused. He further stated that the transaction between

himself and Accused No.1 was made through common friend

Mr. Thyagaraju. He further stated that Mr. Thyagaraju is

working in Margadarshi Chits. He further stated that he was

subscriber in Margadarshi Chits. He further stated that he

does not know Accused No.1 also one of the subscriber in the

said chits. He further stated that in the month of August 2016

Accused approached him for the handloan and Ex.P1 cheque

also issued in the year 2016. He further stated that he received

Rs.50,000/- from the Accused after filing of this case for the

purpose of expenses. He further stated that for that

Rs.50,000/- agreement executed between himself and Accused.

He denied that the said agreement was executed in the police

station. He further stated that that agreement was signed by

Accused No.2 also and it is not produced before the court. He

further admits that on Ex.P1 Accused No.1 only was signed

and also admits that Ex.P1 cheque date is 18.8.2016. He 14 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 further stated that he was presented the cheque in the year

2018. He denied that in the real estate business of the

Accused, he invested the amount in the mediation of

Mr. Thyaragaraju and profit sharing agreement between himself

and Accused. He further denied that the Accused was paid

every month profit share to him through Mr. Thyagaraju. He

further denied that after one year, Mr. Thyagaraju was paid

Rs.5 lakhs by receiving Rs.5 lakhs from Accused. He further

denied that the Accused was issued security cheque to

Mr.Thyagaraju. He further denied that he was mused the

cheque which issued to Mr.Thyagaraju. 22. To rebut the presumption the Accused examined

himself as DW1. He deposed that in the year 2016 he was

doing real estate business and also subscriber for chit amount

of Rs.10 lakhs with Mr. Thyagaraju. He further deposed that

Mr. Thyagaraju was invested Rs.5 lakhs in his business for

profit sharing. He further deposed that 5-6 months he was

received profit share and thereafter Mr. Thyagaraju was insisted

to return his Rs.5 lakahs to him. He further deposed that for

that Rs.5 lakhs amount he was issued security cheque to

Mr. Thyagaraju. He further deposed that the said cheque was 15 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 belongs to joint account of himself and his wife and his wife

was not signed on the cheque. He further deposed that Rs.5

lakhs amount was returned by him to Mr. Thyagaraju and

Mr.Thyagaraju was misused the cheque. He further deposed

that he say the Complainant first time in the court only, before

that he was not seen the Complainant. He further deposed that

on 11.3.2024 Ulsoor police was brought to him to the police

station and forcibly taking undertaking letter from him that, he

is to be paid Rs.6 lakhs amount to the Complainant. He further

deposed that in the police station by Phonepe Complainant

took Rs.50,000/-. He further deposed that the said undertaking

letter was with the Complainant and only copy of that letter is

with him as per Ex.D2. He further produced bank account

statement which show that the was paid Rs.50,000/- to the

Complainant. He further deposed that on Ex.D2 Complainant

came to his house and took signature of his wife. 23. In the cross-examination he admits that Ex.P1

cheque belongs to him and also admits his signature on the

cheque. He further admits that he received notice from the

Complainant and he told his counsel to reply the notice. 16 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 24. Considering the oral and documentary evidence

placed by both parties, it is clear that Ex.P1 cheque belongs to

the joint account of Accused and his wife. Further, it is

admitted that, signature on Ex.P1 is belongs to Accused No.1.

The defence taken by the Accused in cross-examination of

Complainant that, the Complainant invested Rs.5 lakhs

amount in his real estate business on profit sharing. On the

other hand, the defence taken in his defence evidence that,

Mr.Thyagaraju was invested Rs.5 lakhs amount in his real

estate business on profit share and cheque was issued for the

purpose of security to Mr. Thyagaraju and Mr. Thyagaraju was

misused the cheque. On perusal of both defence

Mr.Thyagaraju is the common friend of Complainant and

Accused. In the cross-examination as well as in the defence

evidence the Accused stated that, cheque was issued to Mr.

Thyagaraju and Complainant colluding with Mr. Thyagaraju

were misused his cheque by filing of this complaint. It is

pertaining to note that, neither the Accused has produced any

document to show that either Mr. Thyagaraju or Complainant

was invested Rs.5 lakhs amount in his real estate business nor

he examined Mr. Thyagaraju before this court to show that, 17 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 cheque was issued to Mr.Thyagaraju. Further, the Accused

after receipt of legal notice has not taken any legal action

against Mr.Thyagaraju and Complainant for misusing of his

cheque. Ex.D1 is the account statement wherein it discloses

that Rs.50,000/- amount was transferred to the Complainant,

which is also admitted by the Complainant in his cross-

examination but, the Complainant further stated that, it is

expenses amount. 25. The learned counsel for Accused argued that the

cheque was issued to Mr.Thyagaraju for security purpose and

said cheque was misused by the Complainant colluding with

Mr.Thyagaraju. On the other hand, the learned counsel for

Complainant relied on 2023(5) KCCR Page 1084 Para 28 in

the case of Boregowda V/s. Sri Subeda Bhanu wherein the

Hon'ble High Court held that; 26. In the case of Basalingappa V/s. Mudibasappa, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held that in order to rebut the

presumption, u/ Sec.139 of N.I. Act, the standard of proof

required is on preponderance of probabilities. Though the

Accused is required to prove his defence on preponderance of

probabilities, however, his defence must be plausible and

believable. The Accused has no explanation as to how a cheque

belongs to him has reached the hands of the Complainant.

From the manner in which the Accused has chosen to send

reply and also failed to provide a plausible explanation for

cheque belonging to him going into the hands of the

Complainant, this court has no hesitation to hold that he has

taken a false defence. Even on preponderance of probabilities

also, he has failed to prove his defence. 27. In the present case also the Accused has not

explained that how the cheque was in the possession of

Complainant. He only stated that Complainant and

Mr. Thyagaraju were misused the cheque. But he has not

explained that why they have misused his cheque. Therefore, it 19 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 presumed that, for clearance of debt borrowed by him from the

Complainant Ex.P1 cheque was issued by him. 28. As discussed above, it has to be presumed that the

cheque in question was issued by the accused to discharge the

legally recoverable debt or liability. The accused can place

rebuttal evidence so as to show that the cheque was not issued

for consideration. As appreciated supra, accused has failed to

put acceptable and satisfactory evidence to probabilise the

defence. Therefore, there is no question of saying that the

cheque was not issued for liability. Therefore, complainant has

discharged his initial onus laid on him. When he has

discharged his initial onus, it raises presumption U/s 118(a)

and 139 of Negotiable Instruments Act . Accused has failed to

rebut the presumption either in the cross-examination of PW-1

or in his evidence. 29. So, far as sentence and compensation is concern, an

offence punishable under Section 138 of N.I. Act, is a civil

wrong and compensatory in nature, punitive is secondary,

considering, the above settled principle of law with facts and

circumstances of the case, which clearly reveals that, towards

discharge of loan amount, the cheque in question of issued by 20 C.C.No.50177 of 2019 the accused to the complainant. Therefore, considering the

nature of transaction, duration of pendency, litigation

expenses, I am opinion that, if sentence of fine of

Rs.7,25,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs and Twenty-five

Thousand only) is imposed that would meet the ends of

justice, accordingly, the accused is hereby sentenced to pay a

fine of Rs.7,25,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs and Twenty-five

Thousand only) out of that, the complainant is entitled for a

sum of Rs.7,20,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs and Twenty

Thousand only) as a compensation as per U/Sec.395(1) of

B.N.S.S., remaining amount of Rs.5,000/-, is to be

appropriated to the state, in case of default the accused shall

undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 6 months.

Accordingly, the Point No.1 is answered in Affirmative. 30. POINT No.2: In view of discussion held in Point No.1,
I proceed to pass the following: five Thousand only) in default to undergo simple
 imprisonment for 6 months. Further, it is made
 clear that out of fine amount, Rs.7,20,000/-
 (Rupees Seven Lakhs and Twenty Thousand only)
 is to be paid to the complainant as compensation as
 per the provision U/Sec.395(1) of B.N.S.S. and
 Rs.5,000/- is ordered to be remitted to the State.

 Bail bond stands cancelled. Supply the free copy of this judgement to
 the Accused forthwith. (Dictated to the stenographer, transcribed by her, corrected by me
and then pronounced in the open court on this 3rd January, 2026) Digitally signed PARVEEN by PARVEEN A
 A BANKAPUR
 (PARVEEN A BANKAPUR)
 Date: 2026.01.03
 BANKAPUR XXXIV ACJM, BENGALURU. 17:44:16 +0530

 ANNEXURE 1. Witnesses examined on behalf of Complainant: P.W.1 Mr. Srinivasa Rao Kattragadda 2. Documents marked on behalf of complainant: 3. Witnesses examined on behalf of Accused: D.W.1 Mr. V.Vishwanath 4. Documents marked on behalf of Accused: