1. This is a bail application U/S.483 of BNSS
 by the petitioner for grant of bail in connection with
 Cyber Crime PS Case No.15 of 2025 corresponding to
 CT Case No.6 of 2025 pending in the file of learned
 Presiding Officer, Designated Court under OPID Act ,
 Cuttack, for commission of offences punishable
 U/Ss.318(2)/318(4)/3(5) of BNS r/w Sections 4 / 5 / 6 of
 Prize Chits & Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act
 and Section 6 of OPID Act and Section 66-D of IT Act. 2. The short facts involved in this case are
 that co-accused Jyoti Prakash Pallai was promoting
 online betting and, accordingly, for betting purpose, the BLAPL No.7241 of 2025 Page 1 of 6 complainant Sashibrata Swain contacted the co-
 accused Jyoti Prakash Pallai, who provided him two
 online URLs, such as www.dream444.com and
 www.dream666.com and being induced, the
 complainant Sashibrata Swain transferred total sum of
 Rs.1,66,25,003/- to the account of co-accused Jyoti
 Prakash Pallai on various dates w.e.f. 26.08.2022 to
 10.01.2025 through online mode and the complainant
 being addicted to betting, also transferred money to the
 account of the co-accused Jyoti Prakash Pallai through
 the Phonepe number of his staffs and wife, however, in
 order to get trust of the petitioner, co-accused Jyoti
 Prakash Pallai refunded a sum of Rs.57,45,583/- from
 his account and through the account of Rohan
 Enterprises, however, the complainant has lost
 Rs.1,08,79,420/- in the process. Accordingly, on the
 FIR of the complainant Sashibrata Swain, Crime Branch
 Cyber Crime PS Case No.15 of 2025 was registered
 against the co-accused Jyoti Prakash Pallai and Rohan,
 but later it was ascertained that the present petitioner
 is the proprietor of the Rohan Enterprises and he,
 thereby, has been taken into custody in this case. The
 petitioner being unsuccessful in securing his liberty
 before the learned trial Court is ultimately before this
 Court in this bail application. 3. In the course of hearing, Mr. Bishnu Prasad
 Pradhan, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that
 the petitioner is no way connected in this case, rather BLAPL No.7241 of 2025 Page 2 of 6 the petitioner has invested and transferred money to
 the co-accused, but the present petitioner has never
 instigated or induced the complainant to invest money
 in online betting or received any direct investment from
 him and, thereby, the petitioner being innocent person
 and charge-sheet having already been submitted, he
 may kindly be granted bail. 3.1. On the other hand, Mr. Anupam Rath,
 learned counsel for the informant, however, strongly
 opposes the bail application of the petitioner by
 contending inter-alia that not only the present
 petitioner has definite role, but also he has refunded
 money and made direct transaction with the
 complainant and the CDR analysis of the phone
 numbers of the petitioner and the complainant reveals
 frequent talk between them and the money of the
 petitioner having been transferred to the account of the
 petitioner, he is prima facie involved in this case and
 the complainant having lost his hard earned money of
 crores rupees due to the fraud committed by the
 petitioner and co-accused, the bail application of the
 petitioner may kindly be rejected. 3.2. On the other hand, Mr. Anil Kumar Nayak,
 learned counsel for the OPID, however, by producing
 the written instruction received from the DSP, Cyber
 PS-cum-IO submits that there was frequent transaction
 between the petitioner and the complainant through BLAPL No.7241 of 2025 Page 3 of 6 their accounts and a sum of Rs.57,45,583/- has been
 refunded from the account of co-accused and the
 petitioner and the petitioner being prima facie found to
 be involved in this case, his bail application may kindly
 be rejected. 4. After having considered the rival
 submissions upon perusal of record, there appears
 allegation against the petitioner and the co-accused for
 cheating the informant for a sum of Rs.1,08,79,420/-
 through online betting App, but fact remains that the
 complainant in his FIR has stated that he has contacted
 the co-accused for online betting App and, accordingly,
 transferred money to the account of co-accused Jyoti
 Prakash Pallai, however, there was no direct allegation
 leveled by the informant against the petitioner for
 inciting or inducing him to transfer money for online
 betting. Right now, preliminary charge-sheet has
 already been submitted in this case and the IO has
 seized incriminating materials from the petitioner and
 co-accused persons. Further, the petitioner is in
 custody since 27.05.2025 and, thereby, no custodial
 interrogation is presumed to be required at such length
 of time. Besides, no material has been collected to
 indicate that the petitioner would avoid the process of
 law. 5. No doubt, there is allegation against the
 petitioner for cheating the informant for a huge amount BLAPL No.7241 of 2025 Page 4 of 6 along with co-accused persons, but the same is subject
 of trial. It is also not in dispute that bail should not be
 withheld as a pre trial punishment, since bail is the
 rule, but jail is the exception. In the aforesaid facts and
 circumstance and taking into account the nature and
 gravity of the offences as alleged against the petitioner
 vis-à-vis the allegation sought to be brought against
 him and regard being had to the pre trial detention of
 the petitioner in custody with submission of preliminary
 charge-sheet in the meantime and there being no
 custodial interrogation of the petitioner required in this
 case and keeping in view the other circumstances on
 record in entirety including the grant of bail to co-
 accused Sugata Majumder in BLAPL No.11864 of 2025,
 this Court without expressing any view on merits
 admits the petitioner to bail. 6. Hence, the bail application of the petitioner
 stands allowed and the petitioner is allowed to go on
 bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees
 Two Lakh) only with two solvent sureties each for the
 like amount to the satisfaction of the learned Court in
 seisin of the case on such terms and conditions as
 deem fit and proper by it with following conditions:- 7. Accordingly, the BLAPL stands disposed of.
 Issue urgent certified copy of the order as per Rules. (G. Satapathy)
 Judge

 Orissa High Court, Cuttack,
 Dated the 4th day of February, 2026/Subhasmita Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SUBHASMITA DAS Designation: Sr. Stenographer Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa Date: 05-Feb-2026 14:34:15 BLAPL No.7241 of 2025 Page 6 of 6