JYOTI SINGH, J. I.A. 2379/2022 (under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC , by Plaintiff) 1. Present judgment shall dispose of an application filed on behalf
 of the Plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC seeking
 interim injunction restraining the Defendants and others acting on
 their behalf from infringing Plaintiff's registered 'KHILADI'
 trademarks in relation to cinematographic films/movies/motion
 pictures, including the release of the film bearing an identical or Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 1 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 deceptively similar title/name KHILADI in any format i.e. cinema
 hall, DVD/VCD, OTT Platforms etc. 2. As per the averments in the plaint, Plaintiff is a Company
 incorporated in 1988 under the Companies Act, 1956 and is a large
 production house engaged in producing and distributing
 cinematographic films/movies across India. Plaintiff claims to have
 produced several blockbuster movies under its banner for over 30
 years which include iconic films such as Baazigar, Main Hoon Na,
 Dhadkan etc. 3. It is averred that the first film produced by the Plaintiff was a
 film titled 'KHILADI' in the year 1992, which was the first hit movie
 of Mr. Akshay Kumar and which gave him the epithet 'Khiladi'. The
 movie is remembered over the years for its immense success since it
 broke all traditional barriers of Indian film making, being one of its
 kind in the genre of 'action thriller' and 'murder mystery'. 4. It is averred that the success of the film 'KHILADI' triggered a
 series of films bearing the word 'Khiladi' in some form or manner viz.
 Main Khiladi Tu Anari (1994), Sabse Bada Khiladi (1995),
 Khiladiyon Ka Khiladi (1996), Mr. and Mrs. Khiladi (1997),
 International Khiladi (1999), Khiladi 420 (2000) and Khiladi 786
 (2012). The first two movies from these i.e. 'KHILADI' and 'Main
 Khiladi Tu Anari', were produced by the Plaintiff. Plaintiff acquired
 all rights, title and interest in the film 'KHILADI' through an
 Assignment Agreement dated 14.05.1997, between M/s. United Seven
 and M/s. Venus Records and Tapes Pvt. Ltd. (Plaintiff's predecessor).
 The rights assigned in the movie were in perpetuity and included the
 territory of India. The assignment granted television, satellite and free Signature Not Verifiedtelevision rights and under Clause 2.3 of the Agreement, rights to use Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 2 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 the name, tradename and trademark were specifically conveyed. Thus,
 Plaintiff is the sole and exclusive proprietor of the title/mark/name
 'KHILADI' in respect of cinematographic films/movies/motion
 pictures. 5. It is averred that Plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the
 trademark 'KHILADI' and its formative trademarks. Registrations are
 across Classes 9 and 41 and are valid and subsisting. It is stated that
 trademark 'KHILADI' has acquired a secondary meaning and any
 reference to or use of the mark by a third party, without Plaintiff's
 license or consent, would result in confusion as to the source of origin
 of goods and services. The secondary meaning garnered by the
 said trademark is a result of various factors such as: (a) immense
 popularity of the film released in 1992, which achieved cult status; (b) film had a worldwide collection of Rs. 6 Crores despite the budget
 being Rs. 1.8 Crores and was the 10th highest grossing film of 1992;
 and (c) film led to a series of subsequent movies adopting the word
 'KHILADI'. 6. It is stated that the word 'KHILADI' as a film title is inherently
 distinctive having no discernible meaning being arbitrary in respect of
 film. Even assuming that it is a suggestive trademark, it is still
 inherently distinctive and worthy of high degree of protection without
 even proof of secondary meaning. In any event, due to immense
 success of the movie the trademark 'KHILADI' even when used on its
 own, has acquired a secondary meaning as emanating from the
 Plaintiff. Plaintiff's trademark 'KHILADI' has garnered extensive
 goodwill and reputation and the trademark has become easily
 identifiable by members of the public and trade, as originating from Signature Not Verifiedthe Plaintiff. The affinity is so close that if another movie producer Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 3 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 uses the mark 'KHILADI' as a name/title of its movie, it would
 undoubtedly lead to blurring of distinctiveness and exclusivity
 attached to the 'KHILADI' trademark. 7. It is averred that Defendant No. 1 is an Indian Film and
 Distribution Company established in the year 1987 and is involved in
 production and distribution of cinematographic films in Hindi, Telugu
 and Tamil languages while Defendant No. 2 appears to be a producer
 of the forthcoming film 'Khiladi' in Telugu along with Defendant
 No. 1, as is apparent from its name appearing on the promotional
 banner available in public domain. 8. It is stated that the present suit was triggered by the fact that on
 07.02.2022, Plaintiff learnt of the forthcoming release of the film titled
 'Khiladi' (hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned film') by the
 Defendants on 11.02.2022, in Telugu language, purportedly an action-
 thriller albeit it was likely to be available in Hindi language also. 9. It bears relevance to state that the suit was first listed on
 10.02.2022 when summons were issued to the Defendants and were
 accepted on their behalf. The order records that the impugned film
 was to be released in cinemas on 11.02.2022 and therefore, after some
 arguments, Mr. Pravin Anand, counsel for the Plaintiff, on
 instructions, did not press for an ex parte order qua the theatrical
 release. He, however, informed the Court that the movie was likely to
 be released on a later date on Digital/OTT Platforms and across other
 technological media viz. DVD/VCD and sought interim orders qua the
 imminent launch. Upon hearing the parties, Court directed the counsel
 for the Defendants to take instructions if the slogan/tagline 'Play
 Smart' on the Posters, could be changed for the release across other Signature Not Verifiedplatforms, so as to address Plaintiff's concern. The matter was Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 4 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 adjourned to 17.02.2022 on which date Plaintiff sought time for filing
 rejoinder to the reply filed by the Defendants to the present application
 and the application was re-notified for 25.02.2022 and thereafter listed
 on various dates. Before the application could come up on 21.03.2022,
 Plaintiff filed an application being I.A. 4083/2022 seeking restraint
 against the Defendants from taking further steps or making further
 commitments that would irretrievably change the balance of
 convenience. In the alternative, a prayer was made to list the
 application before 21.03.2022 on account of the imminent release of
 the impugned movie on Disney-Hotstar OTT Platform. It is on this
 date that the Defendants informed the Court that their film
 'KHILADI' had already been released on Disney-Hotstar OTT
 Platform on 11.03.2022 and application had become infructuous. The
 application was disposed of as not pressed with liberty to the Plaintiff
 to seek appropriate remedy as the grievance of the Plaintiff was that
 the release of the impugned film by the Defendants on 11.03.2022 was
 an overreach. Sum and substance is that no relief was granted to the
 Plaintiff at that stage and the present application was thereafter argued
 on merits. CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF: 11. Plaintiff is thus entitled to enforcement and protection of its
 proprietary rights under Section 28 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999
 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act'). Present case satisfies the triple
 identity test: (a) competing marks are identical; (b) products/services
 with which the trademark is associated i.e. cinematographic films and
 entertainment services, are identical; and (c) territory is identical i.e.
 India. Case of the Plaintiff therefore squarely falls under Section
 29(2)(c) of the Act and by virtue of Section 29(3) likelihood of
 confusion is to be presumed, being a statutory presumption. Even if it
 is assumed that there is no confusion as to the source of service, at the
 very least, there is likelihood of confusion as regards association,
 sponsorship, endorsement etc. This has become extremely significant
 in today's day and time where films are co-produced by various
 production houses, enhancing the possibility of confusion. Reliance is
 placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai and Others , 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 61. 12. Plaintiff's film 'KHILADI' was a blockbuster film known in
 every household in India. The film launched Mr. Akshay Kumar as a
 star and earned him the sobriquet of 'Bollywood's Mr. Khiladi' or
 'Khiladi Kumar'. Plaintiff's trademark 'KHILADI' by dint of
 commercial success of the movie, widespread popularity and
 recognition gained through extensive promotion and advertising, is
 exclusively associated with the Plaintiff and no one else. The film
 released in 1992 has created an indelible association between the Signature Not Verifiedtrademark 'KHILADI' and the Plaintiff in the minds of general public. Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 6 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 13. It was obligatory upon the Defendants to conduct a trademark
 search before adopting an identical mark/name for its cinematographic
 film and had they done so, they would have learnt of the Plaintiff's
 registrations under multiple classes including Classes 9 and 41.
 Reliance is placed on the judgments in Jagdish Gopal Kamath and
 Others v. Lime & Chilli Hospitality Services , 2015 SCC OnLine Bom
 531 and Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. and Another v. Sudhir
 Bhatia and Others , (2004) 3 SCC 90. 14. Conduct of the Defendants is totally dishonest, which is also
 evident from the fact that apart from using Plaintiff's trademark in
 entirety, they have also adopted and used the silhouette of a man
 folding his legs apart, as a part of one of the alphabets, similar to the
 Plaintiff's depiction of a man on its 'KHILADI' trademark. Therefore,
 there is complete visual and conceptual similarity in the competing
 marks apart from phonetic similarity. 15. It is a settled law that titles of cinematographic films are worthy
 of protection as strong trademarks so long as the film title has
 achieved a secondary meaning. Some film titles that uniquely connote
 the film in question like Sholay, Zanjeer, Deewar like the Plaintiff's
 'Khiladi' need to be protected. Reliance is placed on the judgments in Anil Kapoor Film Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Make My Day Entertainment and
 Another , 2017 SCC OnLine Bom 8119 and Kanungo Media (P) Ltd.
 v. RGV Film Factory & Others, 2007 SCC OnLine Del 314. 16. The impugned film was released in theatres, both in Telugu and
 Hindi dubbed version, on 11.02.2022 and is, in fact, no longer running Signature Not Verifiedon theatres. The film was made available on OTT/Satellite Platforms Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 7 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 on 11.03.2022 and 14.03.2022, respectively. Accordingly, no interim
 injunction should be granted as that would amount to the impugned
 film being permanently removed from being accessible to the public
 since the film is different from a packaged good. While the latter can
 be simply recalled and released after being repacked, the same is not
 possible in case of a film. 17. Plaintiff has no registration for the word mark 'KHILADI' and
 a bare perusal of the registration being T.M. No. 3491374 would show
 that it is a device mark for a poster having several features and the
 word 'KHILADI' is only one part of the device mark. Plaintiff has
 itself claimed exclusivity and distinctiveness in the device mark as a
 whole before the Registrar of Trade Marks in its reply dated
 15.09.2017 and therefore, it is not open to the Plaintiff to claim
 distinctiveness in the word 'KHILADI', as this would amount to
 achieving indirectly what it could not achieve directly before the
 Registrar. Reliance was placed on the judgments in Registrar of Trade
 Marks v. Ashok Chandra Rakhit Ltd. , AIR 1955 SC 558 and
 Vardhman Buildtech Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Vardhman Properties Ltd. ,
 2016 SCC OnLine Del 4738, to support the argument that where a
 distinctive label is registered as a whole, such registration cannot give
 any exclusive statutory right to the proprietor to the use of any
 particular word or name contained as a part of the mark. Thus, no case
 of infringement is made out by the Plaintiff. 18. Plaintiff is guilty of material suppression inasmuch as it has not
 filed before this Court the documents pertaining to registration filed
 before the Registrar of Trade Marks and has deliberately concealed in
 the plaint that registrations are with respect to device marks and the Signature Not Verifiednarrative in the plaint is malafidely crafted to portray as if the Plaintiff Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 8 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 has exclusive proprietary rights over the word mark 'KHILADI',
 which is wholly incorrect. For the proposition that suppression of
 material facts is fatal for grant of temporary injunction, reliance was
 placed on the judgment in Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. & Anr.
 v. Harinder Kohli & Ors., 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1081. 19. The word 'KHILADI' is a generic word which translates into
 'Player' in English language and has been widely used in a number of
 films and shows across the Indian film industry and is common to
 trade. There are more than 40 films and/or shows in various languages
 which have been produced with the name 'KHILADI' and out of this
 only two are to the credit of the Plaintiff. In fact, in 2013 a film titled
 'KHILADI' was released in Bengali language. The word 'KHILADI'
 is a descriptive word of a non-distinctive character and not a coined or
 an arbitrary word as alleged by the Plaintiff. This is also fortified by
 the fact that an application for registration of the word 'KHILADI' by
 Mr. Akshay Kumar was refused by the Registrar of Trade Marks. 20. Plaintiff's film 'KHILADI' was released in the year 1992 i.e. 30
 years ago. No announcement of a proposed release of a film with the
 Title 'KHILADI' has been pleaded by the Plaintiff, which would show
 that there is possibility of confusion in the minds of the consumers. In
 any case, Plaintiff has been unable to show that the word 'KHILADI'
 is synonymous with Plaintiff's work and that the general public
 identifies the word 'KHILADI' only with the Plaintiff. No prima facie
 case of likelihood of confusion or passing off of the Plaintiff's film
 has been made out against the Defendants. Since the impugned film is
 already out of the theatres and is only running on OTT/Satellite
 Platforms, the likelihood of confusion in any event in the minds of the Signature Not Verifiedpublic is close to zero as any person who wishes to watch a film on an Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 9 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 OTT Platform will view the entire poster of the film, which includes
 photograph of the actors, title of the film and other details like the
 producer, director etc. and make a choice accordingly. In the present
 case, the cast of the impugned film includes Sh. Ravi Teja as against
 Sh. Akshay Kumar in the Plaintiff's film and there can be no cause for
 confusion in the photographs of two actors. Thus, no prima facie case
 is made out by the Plaintiff for grant of injunction. 21. No case of balance of convenience or irreparable harm and
 injury has also been made out by the Plaintiff. Plaintiff is also guilty
 of gross delay inasmuch as the impugned film was announced way
 back on 18.10.2020 and the Plaintiff approached this Court after a
 delay of almost two years i.e. on 10.02.2022, which was one day prior
 to scheduled release date of the said film. The film of the Defendants
 was announced on 18.10.2020 and since then Defendants promoted
 the film in public domain incurring huge expenditure. Defendant No.2
 has made investment in production of the film, which has a stellar star
 cast. Defendants have entered into several service agreements,
 supplier agreements and agreements with owners of OTT Platforms
 and if the film is interdicted at this stage, breach of agreements would
 attract various penalties and legal complications. If Defendants are
 directed to change the title of the film, it would entail changing the
 posters, designs, marketing campaigns and in turn incurring expenses
 running into several crores. Reliance was placed on the judgments in John Hart Jr. and Another v. Mukul Deora and Others , 2021 SCC
 OnLine Del 3499; Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited v. Eros
 International Media Limited and Another , 2021 SCC OnLine Del
 1298 and Biswaroop Roy Choudhary v. Karan Johar, 2006 SCC Signature Not VerifiedOnLine Del 828, for the proposition that delay in approaching the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 10 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 Court has been held to be fatal for grant of temporary injunction in
 relation to movies. 22. Plaintiff was fully aware of the release of the film as on
 18.10.2020, when the lead actor of the impugned film posted the
 announcement of the film on his official Twitter handle. On
 19.10.2020, knowledge of commencement of the film and the pooja
 ceremony was also in public domain. The first glimpse of the
 impugned film was released on 26.01.2021, followed by a teaser on
 12.04.2021. On 31.03.2021, articles were published in leading
 newspapers confirming the release of the upcoming film though later
 the release was postponed on account of Pandemic COVID-19. On
 25.01.2022, an article was available in the public domain, announcing
 Hindi debut of Ravi Teja with 'KHILADI' on the Valentine's day
 weekend. 23. Defendant No. 2 possesses a Censor Certificate issued by
 Central Board of Film Certification ('CBFC') under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 issued on 09.02.2022 and 11.02.2022 for
 Telugu language and Hindi (dubbed) language, respectively. It also
 has a title registration for the film titled 'KHILADI' issued by
 Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce on 12.11.2019. There is
 no provision for change of title of the film in the Bye-laws and Rules
 and Regulations of CBFC and once the film is certified by CBFC
 under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 or commercially exhibited/
 released in theatres, then the title or any part thereof cannot be
 changed by anyone including the film's producer. This is evident
 from the answer given by CBFC to one of the FAQs, which is as
 follows:- CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF IN
 REJOINDER 24. There is no delay in approaching the Court disentitling the
 Plaintiff to an injunction inasmuch as Plaintiff learnt for the first time
 of Defendants' infringing activities i.e. forthcoming release of
 impugned film only on 08.02.2022. This fact is stated on oath in
 Mr. Ratan Jain's affidavit who is Director of the Plaintiff Company.
 The knowledge was through a Hindi trailer of the original Telugu film
 made by the Defendants. Immediate steps were taken to draft the
 plaint and the suit was listed on 10.02.2022 on urgent mentioning i.e.
 before the release of the impugned film. As a matter of fact, the Indian
 film industry produces around 1800 films annually in 41 languages
 and it would be unreasonable to expect the Plaintiff to be aware of
 release of every upcoming film, especially those in regional
 languages, such as the impugned film. In fact, the dishonesty of
 Defendants is apparent from the fact that Defendants admittedly
 registered the title of their film with Telangana State Film Chamber of
 Commerce and not with one of the four main film associations which
 are well-recognized and pervasive in Hindi film industry. Registration Signature Not Verifiedof the Hindi dubbed version of the film with the said Chamber of Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 12 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 Commerce was only on 08.02.2022 and no delay can thus be
 attributed to the Plaintiff. The CBFC certification of the Telugu
 version of the impugned film was given on 09.02.2022 while that for
 the Hindi dubbed version was granted only on 11.02.2022. It was
 dishonesty on the part of the Defendants in not informing the Court on
 10.02.2022 that it was still to receive CBFC certification for the Hindi
 dubbed version. In fact, the impression given was that all formalities
 were completed and the movie was slated for release on 11.02.2022.
 This misrepresentation and suppression led to non-grant of relief to
 the Plaintiff as the impression given was that Plaintiff had approached
 the Court at the last minute. 25. Contentions of the Defendants that it is not possible to change
 the title having obtained CBFC certification, particularly, once the
 film has been released is misconceived and contrary to the decision in Shri Babuji Rawji Shah v. S. Hussain Zaidi & Ors., SLP(C)
 No.15711/2021 , decided on 24.02.2022, wherein the Supreme Court
 has held that an injunction action can be initiated even after a
 certificate is issued under the Cinematograph Act . In any event, it is a
 matter of common knowledge that in the film industry CBFC
 certification only relates to theatrical release of the films. Ministry of
 Information and Broadcasting, in an RTI reply has clarified that CBFC
 primarily certifies films for theatrical release and the Ministry has no
 control over films appearing online. In fact, in Mr. Shivaji Rao
 Gaikwad v. M/s. Varsha Productions, 2015 SCC OnLine Mad 158,
 the Madras High Court had granted an injunction in respect of a film
 despite CBFC certification. 26. Defendants have vehemently contended that there are various Signature Not Verifiedthird parties who have trademark registrations for the mark Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 13 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 'KHILADI' and according to the Defendants, Plaintiff has itself
 admitted in the plaint that six such films containing the word
 'KHILADI' have been released. The contention is baseless for
 manifold reasons. Firstly, none of the third-party trademark
 registrations cited by the Defendants are for 'KHILADI' word per se.
 Each of them have a suffix or a prefix with the word 'KHILADI'.
 Secondly, when Mr. Akshay Kumar sought to register the trademark
 'KHILADI' it was the Plaintiff who had opposed and the application
 was abandoned which only supports the stand of exclusivity of
 Plaintiff's proprietorship over the mark 'KHILADI'. Thirdly, each of
 the six films mentioned by the Defendants have a prominent prefix or
 suffix and till date no film has been released with the word
 'KHILADI' alone, save and except, that of the Plaintiff. Even
 assuming for the sake of arguments that there are others who are using
 'KHILADI' word per se, it is a settled law that Plaintiff is not
 expected to chase every infringer as held in Pankaj Goel v. Dabur
 India Ltd. , 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1744. It is also settled that there is
 a distinction between 'common to the register' and 'common to the
 trade' and mere presence of the mark on the Register does not prove
 its use as held in Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. , 1977
 SCC OnLine Del 50. Lastly, for the plea of 'common to the trade' to
 succeed, use by third parties should be substantial as held in Express
 Bottlers Services Private Ltd. v. Pepsico Inc. & Ors. , 1988 SCC
 OnLine Cal 62, which in the present case Defendants have been
 unable to substantiate. 27. Defendants have contended that Plaintiff can only assert rights
 over the device mark as a whole and in the absence of registration in Signature Not Verifiedthe word 'KHILADI', Plaintiff cannot dissect the device mark and Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 14 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 assert a separate right over the word 'KHILADI'. The contention
 deserves to be rejected as it is a settled law that even in respect of
 device marks, test is to identify and compare the essential and
 dominant elements of the mark, since it is these elements that create a
 commercial impression in the minds of the public. The dominant and
 essential part of the device mark is 'KHILADI' and the Plaintiff can
 assert its rights both under the Statute and common law for its
 protection. Reliance was placed on the judgment in Shambhu Nath &
 Brothers & Ors. v. Imran Khan , 2018 SCC OnLine Cal 7145 and
 Ramdev Food Products (P) Ltd. v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel and
 Others , (2006) 8 SCC 726. 28. It is wrong for the Defendants to contend that balance of
 convenience is in favour of the Defendants only because the film has
 been released and they have entered into various commercial
 arrangements. Plaintiff is a registered proprietor of the trademark
 'KHILADI' which has been extensively associated with the Plaintiff.
 If the interim injunction is not granted Plaintiff will be deprived of its
 right and opportunity to come out with a subsequent franchise
 'KHILADI' film and would also be deprived of potential
 merchandising opportunities in relation to 'KHILADI' trademarks and
 movie. Moreover, the present suit is for vindication of Plaintiff's
 statutory rights and no amount of monetary damages can be a
 substitute for grant of injunction at this stage, particularly, when
 Plaintiff has made out a prima facie case of infringement against the
 Defendants. Irreparable harm and injury in the present case continue
 to persist since Defendants' film under the infringing title is
 continuing to remain on the OTT Platforms. Plaintiff is thus entitled to Signature Not Verifiedgrant of injunction restraining the Defendants from continuing the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 15 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 impugned film on the various platforms under the infringing title.
 Defendants cannot raise a plea of estoppel as there is no estoppel
 against a statutory right and once the Plaintiff's trademark is
 registered, statement made before the Trade Marks Office cannot be
 read out of context to deny protection to the Plaintiff. [Ref. H&M
 Hennes & Maurtiz AB and Anr. v. HM Megabrands Pvt. Ltd. &
 Ors. , 2018 SCC OnLine Del 9369 and KEI Industries Limited v.
 Raman Kwatra and Another, 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1459]. 29. I have heard learned counsel for the Plaintiff and learned Senior
 Counsel for the Defendants. 30. Present application has been filed by the Plaintiff seeking
 injunction restraining the Defendants and their agents etc. from using
 Plaintiff's registered 'KHILADI' trademarks or deceptively similar
 marks/title/name of any cinematographic films, motion pictures etc.
 on cinema halls, DVD/VCDs and OTT Platforms amounting to
 infringement as well as passing off. 31. When the suit was filed, Plaintiff had averred in the plaint that it
 was on 07.02.2022 that it learnt of the forthcoming release of the film
 titled 'KHILADI' by the Defendants and although the film was stated
 to be released in Telugu language, it would also be available in Hindi
 language to be released in cinemas on 11.02.2022. It is averred in
 paragraph 22 that Plaintiff was shocked to learn of this unlawful
 activity through a newspaper article originally published on
 05.02.2022. Paragraph 23 contains an averment that Plaintiff
 thereafter learnt that there were other news articles and dedicated
 Wikipedia pages regarding the upcoming impugned film, which was
 initially to be released in April, 2021, but was postponed due to Signature Not VerifiedPandemic COVID-19. Therefore, when the suit was filed, according to Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 16 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 the Plaintiff, the movie of the Defendants was yet to be released and in
 this backdrop an injunction was sought. 32. Summons were issued in the suit on 10.02.2022 when the suit
 was listed on urgent mentioning. The order records that parties were
 heard for over an hour till 05.00 pm. It is also recorded in the order
 that the movie was scheduled to be released in cinemas on 11.02.2022
 and on this count, Mr. Pravin Anand, counsel for the Plaintiff, on
 instructions, stated that he would not press for an ex parte order qua
 the theatrical release. As noted above, the impugned movie was also
 released on OTT/Satellite platforms on 11.03.2022 and hence, no
 interim injunction was granted to the Plaintiff at that stage. 33. Defendants have taken an objection against grant of injunction
 after the release of the movie on all platforms, on the ground that an
 interim order would amount to Defendants' film being permanently
 removed from being accessible by public after it has been released
 which would be extremely detrimental to its reputation. Objection is
 also raised on the ground that there is gross delay on the part of the
 Plaintiff in approaching the Court which disentitles the Plaintiff from
 seeking a temporary injunction. While it is the case of the Plaintiff, as
 pleaded in the plaint, that it learnt of the forthcoming release on
 07.02.2022, Defendants plead and urge that the film was announced
 on 18.10.2020, after which the film was extensively promoted, which
 is evident from promotional materials in the public domain. Reliance
 is placed on the official Twitter handle posting the announcement of
 the film on 18.10.2020; advertisement as well as articles in public
 domain on 19.10.2020 announcing the commencement of the film and
 Pooja Ceremony; first glimpse of the film on 26.01.2021; release of Signature Not Verifiedthe teaser on 12.04.2021; articles in leading newspapers on Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 17 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 31.03.2021; postponement of the film due to Pandemic COVID-19
 announced on 05.05.2021; film teasers in August, 2021 on public
 domain on the YouTube Platform, followed by an article in the public
 domain announcing the debut of Sh. Ravi Teja in a Hindi movie set
 for release on Valentine's Day weekend. Interestingly, while the
 Plaintiff has pleaded the date of knowledge as 07.02.2022 in the
 plaint, in the written submissions filed subsequently it is stated that it
 gained knowledge on 08.02.2022, when Plaintiff came across the
 Hindi trailer of the original Telugu film. The question that thus arises
 is if delay defeats the grant of temporary injunction which is an
 equitable relief. 34. It is trite that delay by itself cannot defeat the claim of a party if
 it is able to establish infringement/passing off. However, while
 considering grant of interlocutory injunctions in relation to release of
 movies, Courts have ordinarily declined to grant interim relief where
 parties have approached belatedly or on the eve of the release of the
 films by the opposite parties. Judicial precedents show that a thin
 distinction has been drawn between 'goods' and 'films', when it
 comes to delay in approaching the Court and in this context, I may
 allude to the judgment of this Court in Kanungo Media (P) Ltd.
 (supra), where one of the questions before this Court was 'what would
 be the effect of delay in bringing the cause to the Court'? The question
 was answered as follows:- 35. In Biswaroop Roy Choudhary (supra), Plaintiff had sought an
 interim injunction restraining the Defendant from using the
 trademark/title 'KABHI ALVIDA NAA KEHNA'. Defendant had
 contested the grant of interim injunction on the ground of delay
 amongst other objections and had also placed material on record to
 show that Plaintiff had knowledge of Defendant's proposed activities.
 In this context, this Court held as follows:- 36. Similar situation came before this Court in John Hart Jr. and
 Another (supra), where the Plaintiffs sought to injunct release of the
 film 'THE WHITE TIGER' by Defendant No. 1 therein and an
 objection was taken by the said Defendant that the claim asserted by
 the Plaintiffs was highly belated. Relying on the aforementioned
 judgments as well as the judgment in Warner Bros. Entertainment
 Inc. & Anr. (supra), Court declined to grant injunction on the sole
 ground of unquestionable delay in approaching the Court. Relevant
 paragraphs of John Hart Jr. and Another (supra) are as follows:- (Emphasis supplied)
 (from Biswaroop Roy Choudhary)
 "34. In International Film Service Co. Ltd. v. Associated producers Inc. 273 F. 585 (D.C.N.Y. 1921), it was held that
 "The plaintiff succeeds as soon as he shows an audience
 educated to understand that the title means his play". I am
 conscious of the argument of the learned counsel for the plaintiff
 that only because the plaintiff is a small time producer and,
 therefore, could not commercially release the film earlier,
 though he intends to do it now, title of his film should not be
 hijacked by those who consider themselves mighty and have
 reach in the film industry. There is a lot of substance in this
 argument. However, it is stated at the cost of repetition that such
 an argument would have been worth its weight had the plaintiff
 approached the court earlier and taken action to nip in the bud
 the attempt of the defendants in choosing this title for their
 film. In fact, knowing his limitations viz. if he allows the
 defendants to publicise their film with title 'Nishabd' he would
 lose out, should have made him more vigilant in promptly
 approaching the court. By delay it has allowed the damage to be Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 22 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 caused to itself inasmuch as, today overwhelming section of
 public associate this title with the defendants' film. 35. In this context, it would be apt to quote from the judgment of
 the Supreme Court in the case of Ramdev Food Products (P)
 Ltd. v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel (2006) 8 SCC 726 where it is
 held as under:-- **** 37. Learned counsel for the plaintiff had referred to the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Midas Hygiene
 Industries (P) Ltd. v. Sudhir Bhatia , (2004) 3 SCC 90 and of this
 court in Glaxo Group Ltd. v. Vipin Gupta, (2006) 7 AD (Delhi)
 688 to contend that injunction could not be refused only on the
 ground of delay and laches. It has to be borne in mind, in the
 first place, that it would be a principle applicable in the case of
 registered trade mark. Secondly and more important, is the
 distinction between the cases of passing off action in
 goods/trading and passing off action in literary works. In the
 former case one product is competing with the other and there
 are two competitors. However, as far as literary work is
 concerned, as has been pointed out above, it is a specific,
 separate and unique commercial item and not as one product
 among many competing products. Each book, movie, play or
 record is an economic market in and of itself, not in competition
 with other similar literary works. Thus, in fact, this is the
 genesis for the adoption of the test of secondary meaning of title
 of a literary work. Therefore, it would be difficult to hold that
 delay is not fatal in such cases. 38. Consequently, I am therefore, of the view that injunction of
 the nature pressed by the plaintiff cannot be granted to the
 plaintiff at this stage when it approached the court barely 10
 days before the proposed release of the defendants' film with the
 same title. This injunction application is, therefore, dismissed. It
 is made clear that entire discussion in the order is on the prima
 facie view of the mater and observations made in this order are
 only tentative." (Emphasis supplied)
 (from Kanungo Media (P) Ltd.)
 "34. Viewed from any angle, the plaintiffs have failed to Signature Not Verified establish a prima facie case for the grant of an ad interim Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 23 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 injunction in their favour. The balance of convenience also tilts
 heavily in favour of the defendants, who have invested huge
 sums of money, apart from entering into copious agreements
 and business tie ups with various third parties, including
 Britania, McDonalds, etc. In a manner of speaking, the plaintiffs
 have sat on the garden fence and allowed the defendants to
 traverse the whole of the garden path, before attempting to
 throw a spanner in the release of the film at the eleventh hour. If
 the plaintiffs were so keen and so wary of protecting their rights,
 it was incumbent upon them to vigilantly guard the same. This,
 the plaintiffs have failed to do and, as a matter of fact, the
 conclusion to the contrary clearly emerges from a reading of the
 documentary evidence on record. The plaintiffs have equally
 failed to establish that any irreparable loss or injury will result
 to them on the release of the film" (Emphasis supplied)
 (from Vinay Vats)
 Even on the sole ground of unconscionable delay in
 approaching this Court, therefore, the plaintiffs stand disentitled
 from seeking any interlocutory injunction against release of the
 film. xxx xxx xxx iii) In a case such as this, it is also not possible to hold, prima
 facie, that the prejudice that would result to the plaintiffs, were
 interlocutory injunction, as sought, not granted, is greater than
 that which would result to the defendants, were such injunction
 to be granted. The financial stakes, on both sides, are
 considerable. In case the defendants, as they assert, have been
 acting on the basis of rights validly assigned to them, there can
 obviously be no ground to injunct the release of the film. The
 release of a film is merely the culmination of a protracted
 exercise involving production, promotion and publicity, and I
 am, prima facie, inclined to agree with Mr. Sethi that if, at this
 point of time, release of the film is stayed, it will result in serious
 and irreparable repercussions to the defendants. iv) Further, it is a well-settled principle that, where the loss
 occasioned to the plaintiff is capable of being adequately
 compensated in monetary terms, an injunction, especially of
 release of a cinematographic film, ought not to be granted5.
 Plaintiff No. 1 is, admittedly, not the original creator of the
 artistic work "The White Tiger". He, even as per his own
 showing, claim to have been assigned the right to film the said
 novel, under a Literary Option Agreement dated 4th March,
 2009. In view thereof, even if the defendants are allowed to
 release the film, and the plaintiffs ultimately succeed in the suit,
 I am of the opinion that it would be possible to recompense them
 monetarily, even in respect of the emotional trauma, which,
 according to Mr. Sankhla, Plaintiff No. 1 would suffer, as a
 result of his not being able to be the first to film "The White
 Tiger". 28. On a holistic consideration of the facts, the extant legal
 position and especially as the plaintiffs have chosen to move this
 Court less than 24 hours before the release of the subject film, I am
 of the opinion that the plaintiffs are not entitled to any interim
 injunction, staying the release of the film. The prayer for interim
 injunction is, therefore, rejected." 37. In Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited (supra), Plaintiff sought
 interlocutory injunction restraining the release of a film named 'Hathi
 Mere Sathi', titled 'Kaadan' in Tamil and 'Aranya' in Telugu, through
 various media platforms. On the question of delay in approaching the
 Court, it was held as follows:- 38. Returning back to the facts of the present case, there is a
 categorical averment by the Defendants that the announcement of their
 film was in the public domain way back on 18.10.2020 when Sh. Ravi
 Teja posted the announcement of the film 'KHILADI' on his official
 twitter handle. In rejoinder to the reply, Plaintiff has stated that it
 learnt of the trailer of the film in Hindi on 08.02.2022 when the same
 was released on YouTube and Facebook handles of Defendant No. 1
 and also saw the poster of the Hindi version of the film on Instagram
 handle of Defendant No. 1, mentioning the release date as 11.02.2022. released on 07.02.2022 on YouTube handle of Aditya Music. The suit
 was prepared in a day on 09.02.2022 and filed and listed on
 10.02.2022 on urgent mentioning. It is also stated that Indian film
 industry produces large number of films approximately 1800 films in
 a year in 41 languages and it is impossible to keep a track and in any
 case delay cannot come in the way of grant of injunction if the action
 of the Defendants amounts to infringement of Plaintiff's registered
 trademark. Significantly, there is no denial to the dates and events
 given by the Defendants, save and except, general and evasive denials.
 From the pleadings of the Defendants and the documents placed on
 record, it is prima facie evident that there was enough material in the
 public domain since October, 2020 to put the Plaintiff to notice of the
 upcoming movie. The film teasers were also available in the public
 domain in July-August, 2021 albeit the release was postponed on
 account of Pandemic COVID-19. Leading newspapers carried articles
 confirming the release of the film in March, 2021 including an article
 published on 25.01.2022 announcing the debut of Sh. Ravi Teja in a
 Hindi film. Being in the same industry and having access to all social
 and media platforms, it is unbelievable that Plaintiff was unaware of
 the making and proposed release of Defendants' movie 'KHILADI'.
 Yet, Plaintiff waited to approach Court on the eve of the release at its
 own risk and peril. This delay to my mind is fatal to the case of the
 Plaintiff apart from the fact that Plaintiff has been unable to make out
 a prima facie case of infringement and passing off for reasons I shall
 advert to in the later part of the judgment. Plaintiff has placed reliance
 on the affidavit of Mr. Ratan Jain, Director of the Plaintiff Company
 to substantiate that there was no delay. The statements made in the Signature Not Verifiedaffidavit can only be tested during the trial and will not further the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 29 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 case of the Plaintiff at this stage, in view of plethora of documents
 filed by the Defendants to show information of the impugned film in
 public domain since 2020. 39. There are two other objections which were pressed by the
 Defendants with vehemence, which according to them, disentitle the
 Plaintiff to any interim injunction. It is stated in the written statement
 filed by Defendant No. 2 that Plaintiff is: (a) guilty of suppressio veri
 suggestio falsi for deliberately and wilfully suppressing material
 documents from the Court wherein it is acknowledged that the word
 'KHILADI' is of non-distinctive character; and (b) misrepresenting
 and portraying as if Plaintiff has registration in the word 'KHILADI',
 deliberately omitting to state that registration is in the device marks.
 False declaration has been given in the Statement of Truth that all
 relevant documents have been filed while the most crucial document
 i.e. the Legal Proceedings Certificate has not been filed. 40. Reading of the plaint shows that Plaintiff has oversimplified
 and overstated its case. A holistic reading of the plaint shows that
 Plaintiff is seeking exclusive proprietary rights over the word
 'KHILADI' and this is the foundation of the allegations of
 infringement and passing off against the Defendants. This is amply
 clear from paragraph 26 of the plaint as an illustration, wherein the
 comparative table shows that only a portion of the device mark
 containing the word 'KHILADI' has been carefully extracted, instead
 of comparing the device mark as a whole. This is perhaps due to the
 realisation that the device mark of the Plaintiff and the rival mark are
 incomparable. For ready reference, paragraph 26 is extracted
 hereunder:- 41. At this stage, it would be relevant to refer to a comparative of
 the rival marks of the parties, which prima facie shows not only
 dissimilarity in the rival marks, but also supports the contention of the
 Defendants that an impression is created as though Plaintiff has
 statutory enforceable right in the word KHILADI. Comparative of the
 rival marks is as follows:- 42. There is prima facie also merit in the contention of the
 Defendants that Plaintiff has suppressed material documents from this
 Court, more particularly, its own stand before the Registrar of Trade
 Marks. It is stated in the written statement filed by Defendant No. 2
 that Plaintiff had applied for registration of the device mark
 'KHILADI' bearing TM No. 3491374 on 24.02.2017. On 11.03.2017,
 the Registrar of Trade Marks issued the First Examination Report,
 objecting to the registration of its device mark 'KHILADI' in view of Section 11 of the Act and cited conflicting marks ' ',

 'KHILADI' and ' '. Response of the Plaintiff to the First
 Examination Report vide letter dated 15.09.2017 is important and is
 extracted hereunder:- 43. It is clear that Plaintiff sought registration in the device mark as
 a whole and it is thus not open to the Plaintiff to claim exclusivity on
 part of the mark i.e. word 'KHILADI' in view of the well accepted Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 32 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 and recognised doctrine of prosecution history estoppel and law of
 anti-dissection, which admits of only one exception where the
 Plaintiff's asserted mark is the dominant part of a composite/label/
 device mark. 44. It needs no reiteration that a party who suppresses material facts
 is not entitled to claim interim injunction, which is an equitable relief.
 In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) By LRs. v. Jagnnath (Dead) By
 LRs. and Others, (1994) 1 SCC 1, the Supreme Court has observed
 that it is legal duty cast upon the Plaintiff to come to Court with true
 case and prove it by true evidence. Courts of law are meant for
 imparting justice between the parties and one who comes to the Court
 must come with clean hands. It was observed that 'we have no
 hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has
 no right to approach the Court. He can be summarily thrown out at
 any stage of the litigation.' It was also observed that where a party
 withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other
 side, he would be guilty of playing fraud on the Court as well as on
 the opposite party. In Mohan Devi v. Daljeet Singh & Ors. , 2007
 SCC OnLine Del 1344, this Court held that injunction is a
 discretionary relief and a party which suppresses material facts is not
 entitled to the relief. [Ref. Kent RO System Limited and Another v.
 Gattubhai and Others , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 791]. Plaintiff is thus
 disentitled to an interim injunction on both these counts. 45. Plaintiff has placed reliance on the judgments in H&M Hennes
 & Maurtiz AB and Anr. (supra) and KEI Industries Limited (supra),
 to contend that there is no estoppel against a statutory right and once
 Plaintiff's trademark is registered, statements made before the Trade Signature Not VerifiedMarks registry cannot be read out of context to deny protection to the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 33 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 Plaintiff. In my view, none of these judgments would inure to the
 advantage of the Plaintiff on account of the observations of the
 Division Bench of this Court in Raman Kwatra and Another v. KEI
 Industries Limited , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 38, relevant paragraphs of
 which are as follows:- 46. I may also allude to a recent judgment of the Bombay High
 Court in PhonePe Private Limited v. Resilient Innovations Private
 Limited , 2023 SCC OnLine Bom 764, relevant paragraphs of which
 are as follows:- 29. In a similar situation, in the case of S. K. Sachdeva v. Shri.
 Educare Limited (supra), the Division Bench of Delhi High Court
 found that discretion ought not to be exercised in favour of a person,
 who approaches the Court with unclean hands. That was in the
 backdrop of the plaintiff therein having suppressed its own stand
 taken before the Registrar of Trademarks during consideration of its
 application for registration of the trademark. The interim injunction
 granted by the learned Single Judge was set aside on this ground,
 indicating that the principle of prosecution history estoppel can
 certainly be invoked by the Court. The relevant portion of the Delhi
 High Court judgment reads as follows:-- 30. In the present case, it is an admitted position that the plaintiff
 did not place before this Court its own stand when the Registrar of
 Trademarks in the examination report had observed that there were
 earlier similar trademarks such as, 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe
 Store', 'Phone Pe Crore', 'pe', 'pay' etc. The plaintiff had taken a
 stand that such cited marks were not similar to its mark 'PhonePe'
 for the reason that the mark 'PhonePe', taken as a whole, was
 distinct from such marks viz. 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe Store',
 'Phone Pe Crore' etc. 31. Having taken such a stand, it was a factor relevant to the
 controversy in the present case, for the reason that the trademark of
 the defendant is 'postpe'. This Court is of the opinion that by not
 placing its own stand taken before the Registrar of Trademarks in
 respect of cited marks like 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe Store',
 'Phone Pe Crore', etc., the plaintiff dis-entitled itself to grant of
 discretionary reliefs under Order XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC .
 The test in such cases is that if the defendant is likely to suffer
 prejudice due to such suppression on the part of the plaintiff,
 discretionary relief ought not to be granted. In the present case, this
 Court is of the opinion that prejudice was certainly caused to the
 defendant, but for the defendant itself making enquiries and bringing
 the material before this Court as regards the stand taken by the
 plaintiff in the proceedings before the Registrar of Trademarks.
 When the plaintiff had claimed before the Registrar of Trademarks
 that its mark 'PhonePe', taken as a whole, cannot be said to be the
 similar to marks like 'Phone Pe Deal', 'Phone Pe Store', 'Phone Pe
 Crore' etc., it was clearly relevant for the stand taken in the present
 case that the mark of the defendant 'postpe', taken as a whole, can
 be said to be deceptively similar to the registered trademark of the
 plaintiff 'PhonePe', taken as a whole. 32. Hence, this Court is of the opinion that the principle of
 prosecution history estoppel is correctly invoked by the defendant in
 the present case. The plaintiff cannot successfully claim
 discretionary reliefs in the backdrop of such conduct." 47. Plaintiff has not filed replication to the written statement of
 Defendant No. 2 and therefore insofar as pleadings are concerned, at
 this stage, the pleas of the Defendants are uncontroverted and
 unrebutted. In the written submissions, however, Plaintiff has sought
 to defend its response to the First Examination Report by emphasising
 on the words "essentially consisting of the word 'KHILADI'". This
 Court is unable to fathom how the inclusion of these words can take
 the Plaintiff out of its clear stand that registration was sought in the
 device mark as a whole. Interestingly, in the reply to the First
 Examination Report, Plaintiff has stated that on comparing the applied
 mark with the cited marks, as a whole, there is absolutely no similarity
 whatsoever and being distinctive, there would be no confusion in the
 minds of the consumer between the Applicant's mark and cited marks.
 Two things flow out of this response. If the Plaintiff was emphasising
 that there is no similarity referring to the device mark, then clearly it
 can claim no monopoly on the word 'KHILADI'. However, if the
 Plaintiff was referring to the word 'KHILADI' then it is estopped
 from now contending that the Title 'KHILADI' given by the
 Defendants to their film is similar and would cause confusion. 48. This Court cannot subscribe to the argument that prosecution
 history is irrelevant while suing for infringement, since it is now more
 than well-settled that once a party obtains registration for its
 trademark, the stand taken in the proceedings leading upto the grant of
 registration will haunt the Plaintiff in all subsequent legal proceedings. 49. Plaintiff has also urged that the word 'KHILADI' is the
 dominant part of its registered device mark and thus the anti-
 dissection law would not apply to claim infringement. This argument Signature Not Verifiedneeds to be tested in light of the provisions of the Act and judicial Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 37 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 precedents on the subject. Registration of a trademark, if valid, gives a
 registered proprietor of the trademark the exclusive right to use the
 trademark in relation to goods or services in respect of which the
 trademark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement
 of the trademark, in the manner provided by the Act, by virtue of
 Section 28 of the said Act. Section 29 of the Act lays down the regime
 under which infringement can be claimed by a registered proprietor of
 a trademark. In order to prove and establish infringement, even at the
 prima facie stage, registered proprietor will have to show that the
 registered trademark is infringed by a person who not being a
 registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use, uses
 in the course of trade a mark which because of (a) identity with the
 registered trademark and similarity of goods/services covered by the
 trademark or (b) similarity to the registered trademark and identity/
 similarity of goods/services or identity with the registered trademark
 or (c) identity of the goods/services is likely to cause confusion in the
 public or have an association with the registered trademark. 50. Indisputably, most of the registered trademarks of the Plaintiff
 are 'device marks' and Plaintiff does not have registration in the word
 'KHILADI'. TM No. 3491381 is the only word mark registration in
 favour of the Plaintiff for the mark 'Main Khiladi Tu Anari' and is not
 similar to the impugned mark when seen as a hole. TM Nos. 2424449
 and 2424448 for 'Khiladi 2' are also device marks. In Ashok Chandra
 Rakhit Ltd. (supra), it was held by the Supreme Court that where a
 distinctive label is registered as a whole such registration cannot
 possibly give any exclusive statutory right to the proprietor of the
 trademark to use of any particular word or name contained therein Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 38 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 apart from the mark as a whole. Paragraph 14 from the judgment is as
 follows:- Observations to the same effect will be found also in In re
 Apollinaris Company's Trade Marks [LR (1891) 2 Ch 186] , In
 re Smokeless Powder Co., In re Clement and Cie [LR (1900) 1
 Ch 114] and In re Albert Baker & Company and finally in
 the Tudor case referred to above which was decided by Sargant,
 J. This circumstance, however, does not necessarily mean that in
 such a case disclaimer will always be unnecessary. It is
 significant that one of the facts which give rise to the
 jurisdiction of the tribunal to impose disclaimer is that the trade
 mark contains parts which are not separately registered. It is,
 therefore, clear that the section itself contemplates that there
 may be a disclaimer in respect of parts contained in a trade
 mark registered as a whole although the registration of the mark
 as a whole does not confer any statutory right with respect to
 that part." 51. On this aspect, I may also refer to the judgment of this Court in Vardhman Buildtech Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. (supra), relevant passages
 from which are as follows:- 52. Since the Plaintiff has registrations only in the device marks, it
 cannot claim exclusivity or monopoly over the word 'KHILADI' as
 that would amount to achieving something indirectly which the
 Plaintiff was unable to achieve directly. Even otherwise, in trademark
 law jurisprudence, protection to a trademark depends on whether the
 mark is generic, descriptive, suggestive, arbitrary or fanciful. Marks
 which are generic, descriptive or suggestive have a low level of
 protection while those which are arbitrary have a high degree of
 protection. If a person adopts the mark which is generic or descriptive,
 he runs the risk of the mark having low threshold of protection in
 which case the Plaintiff would be required to show that the mark
 adopted has acquired distinctiveness on account of extensive user, by
 leading secondary evidence and establishing that the mark is
 identifiable only with his goods and also that the Defendant has
 adopted an identical or deceptively similar mark. [Ref. M/s. Three-N-
 Products Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. Kairali Exports and Anr., 2018 SCC
 OnLine Del 6397]. In the referred case, this Court held that Plaintiff
 has adopted the word 'AYUR' and thus runs the risk of lesser level of
 legal protectability. Therefore, by adopting the word 'KHILADI' as a
 part of the device mark assuming that it is open to the Plaintiff to
 claim its exclusive use, Plaintiff ran the risk of a third party using the
 same mark. It needs no gainsaying that the word 'KHILADI' is a
 generic word of non-distinctive character and means 'Player' in
 English language. It is not a coined term which would have enabled it Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 41 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 a high degree of protection, besides the fact that it is common to trade
 as far as the film industry itself is concerned and as pointed out by the
 Defendants there are over 40 films/TV shows by this name. 53. The position adopted by the Plaintiff that 'KHILADI' is the
 dominant part of its registered trademark and entitles the Plaintiff to
 claim infringement on the ground that it is similar to the Defendants'
 movie title, is prima facie misconceived. In M/s. South India
 Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. General Mills Marketing Inc. & Anr. , 2014
 SCC OnLine Del 1953, the Division Bench of this Court held that the
 rule of anti-dissection mandates that the Courts while dealing with
 cases of trademark infringement involving composite marks, must
 consider the marks in their entirety as an indivisible whole rather than
 truncating or dissecting them into the component parts and make
 comparison with the corresponding parts of the rival marks to
 determine the likelihood of confusion. The raison d' tre underscoring
 the said principle is that the commercial impression of a composite
 trademark on an ordinary prospective buyer is created by the mark as
 a whole and not by its component parts. The Division Bench also
 delineated the parameters of identifying the dominant part of the mark.
 It was also held that dominant features are significant because they
 attract attention and consumers are more likely to remember and rely
 on them for purposes of identification of the product. The question
 therefore is whether the word 'KHILADI' is a dominant part of the
 device mark of the Plaintiff and prima facie the answer is in the
 negative. 54. Court has arrived at this prima facie conclusion for two-fold
 reasons. First and foremost, a bare perusal of the device mark shows Signature Not Verifiedthat the word 'KHILADI' is not the dominant part of the mark as Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 42 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 substantial portion of the device mark comprises of several
 features/elements such as the picture of the star cast of the movie and
 the word 'KHILADI' with a little silhouette of a man is inscribed at
 the bottom over the names of the producer, director, musician and
 cinematographer. Secondly, the word 'KHILADI' does not qualify as
 a dominant portion of a device mark in view of the observations of the
 Division Bench in M/s. South India Beverages Pvt. Ltd. (supra). In the said judgment , the Court has held that usually, the dominant
 portion of a mark is that which has the greater strength or carries more
 weight. Descriptive or generic components, having little or no source
 identifying significance are generally less significant in the analysis.
 However, words that are arbitrary and distinct possess greater strength
 and accorded greater protection. In the said case, the mark of the
 Plaintiff 'HAGGEN-DAZS' was a unique combination of Danish-
 sounding words which have no recognized meaning whatsoever in any
 language or etymology and are arbitrary. In view of this judgment of
 the Division Bench which binds this Court, the inexorable conclusion
 albeit prima facie that can be drawn is that 'KHILADI' is not the
 dominant part of Plaintiff's device mark, being generic and non-
 distinctive. 55. This leads the Court to the next step of comparison between the
 rival marks as a whole to examine if a case of infringement is made
 out. In order to prove infringement, Plaintiff would have to establish
 similarity/identity of the rival trademarks which is one of the crucial
 and essential ingredients under Section 29(2) of the Act. Comparative
 table of the two rival marks is extracted in the earlier part of the
 judgment and in my prima facie view there is no deceptive similarity Signature Not Verifiedleast of all identity. Before proceeding to deal further with this issue it Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 43 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 would be relevant to refer to the judgment of this Court in Kanungo
 Media (P) Ltd. (supra). In the said case, Plaintiff had brought a suit
 for injunction against the Defendants for adopting the title 'Nishabd'
 for their movie since the Plaintiff had produced a film with a title
 'Nisshabd'. The claim was predicated on statutory rights of copyright
 and infringement as well as common law right of passing off.
 Relevant it is to note that the case related to an alleged appropriation
 of title and as in the present case, it was not a case where there were
 any allegations of usurpation of the work of the Plaintiff by the
 Defendants and admittedly the plot and storyline of the two films was
 completely different with not an iota of semblance of similarity
 between the two on this aspect. Court agreed with the Plaintiff that
 legal protection for literary titles lies in the field of trademark and
 unfair competition but significantly observed that in case of titles of
 single literary work, to claim protection it is necessary to prove that
 such a title has acquired secondary meaning. Underlying assumption
 behind the rule is that only if such title has acquired such a secondary
 meaning that it is capable of associating itself with the particular work
 or source, question of likelihood of confusion of source, affiliation,
 sponsorship or connection in the mind of potential buyers/users would
 arise. The Court also laid down the test of secondary meaning in
 respect of literary titles as explained by McCarthy on Trademarks and
 Unfair Competition, Third Edition (1995) Vol. I. Following
 paragraphs would be relevant in this context:- 16. Underlying assumption behind this rule is that only if such
 title has acquired the secondary meaning and is capable of
 associating itself with the particular work or source, the question of
 likelihood of confusion of source, affiliation, sponsorship or
 connection in the minds of potential buyers/users would arise. This
 aspect shall be considered in some detail later in the discussion. xxx xxx xxx 19. The test of secondary meaning in respect of literary titles is
 explained in the following manner by McCarthy (supra):-- 56. The judgment is particularly important for the present case
 since the Court also laid down what could be the relevant evidence
 from which secondary meaning for a literary title may be inferred as a
 question of fact. Insofar as the test of likelihood of confusion of
 literary titles is concerned, the Court observed that it was the same as
 applied to trademarks in general. The ratio of the judgment is that the
 total visual impression of the whole item reaching consumers is to be
 seen to ascertain the likelihood of confusion and little assistance can
 be taken from a meticulous comparison of the words, letter-by-letter
 and syllable-by-syllable. Relevant paragraphs are as under:- 57. In this context, it will be useful to refer to the judgment of the
 Division Bench in Vasundhara Jewellers Pvt. Ltd. v. Kirat Vinodbhai
 Jadvani and Another , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3370, where the Court
 while examining the composite marks held as follows:- 33. Having stated the above, it is also necessary to bear in mind
 that examining the dominant part of the trademark for comparing it
 with the conflicting mark is solely for the purpose of determining
 whether competing marks are deceptively similar when viewed as a
 whole. It is, thus, not permissible to hold that two competing marks
 are deceptively similar by examining a portion of one mark and
 comparing it with the portion of another mark, if the composite
 marks viewed as a whole are dissimilar. It is relevant to refer to the
 text from McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition, which
 explains the said principle as under:-- [Underlined for Emphasis] 34. In the facts of the present case, the learned Single Judge had
 found that the appellant held registration of the device
 marks/composite marks that contain the word 'Vasundhra' but it did
 not have any registration of the word mark 'VASUNDHRA'. It is
 material to note that the appellant had applied for registration of the
 word mark but the same has not been granted to it as yet. The Court
 had, thus, found that the appellant did not have an exclusive right to
 use the word 'Vasundhra' except as part of its device trademarks." 58. With the observations of the Court in this judgment in the
 backdrop, it is clear that the Court is not required to examine the rival
 composite device marks by a meticulous comparison of each feature Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 48 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 and the mark as a whole has to be seen to ascertain any similarity
 which could lead to likelihood of confusion in the mind of public.
 Plaintiff does not have registration in the word KHILADI and has no
 exclusive right to use it except as part of device mark and when the
 latter is compared with the impugned mark, there is prima facie no
 similarity. Plaintiff's mark contains prominently displayed pictures of
 the star cast i.e. Sh. Akshay Kumar, Ms. Ayesha Julka, Sh. Deepak
 Tijori and Ms. Sabeeha. On the other hand, mark of the Defendants is
 primarily the picture of Sh. Ravi Teja with the word KHILADI
 appearing at the bottom and applying the first impression test one
 cannot be confused with the other. The sine qua non of an action for
 infringement i.e. deceptive similarity and confusion is prima facie
 missing in the present case and sans evidence of confusion or
 deceptive similarity in the device marks, at this stage a finding of
 infringement cannot be rendered in favour of the Plaintiff, in the
 absence of registration in the word 'KHILADI'. 59. Additionally, it is not the case of the Plaintiff that the storyline
 or the plot of the movie of the Defendants is similar to the Plaintiff's
 film 'KHILADI'. The lead cast in the two movies is different and
 while the Plaintiff's movie was in Hindi language, the movie of the
 Defendants is in Telugu as well as a Hindi-dubbed version of Telugu.
 It cannot be lost sight of the fact that the viewership of a Telugu film
 will be substantially different and perhaps lesser as compared to a
 Hindi movie. The two lead actors in the respective movies are well-
 known and celebrated actors and no confusion can possibly arise
 between the two, particularly looking at the fact that the posters of the
 movies are different on a holistic ocular comparison and the movie of Signature Not Verifiedthe Defendants is only on OTT/Satellite platforms where a viewer is in Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 49 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 a position to make a choice to watch the movie by first looking at the
 posters and the other details of the director, production house etc.
 These details are clearly found mentioned on the mark/poster of the
 Defendants' film. No doubt that the movie 'KHILADI' was a huge
 success and also gave a pedestal to the lead actor and earned him the
 sobriquet of 'Khiladi Kumar', as rightly stated by the Plaintiff, but it is
 settled that whether or not a trademark has acquired a secondary
 meaning is a matter of trial and secondly, this factor cannot give
 monopoly to the Plaintiff over the word 'KHILADI' for the purpose of
 claiming infringement, in the absence of registration in the word
 'KHILADI', which the Plaintiff was entitled to apply for, but
 consciously chose not to do so, perhaps in view of the non-distinctive
 nature of the said word. 60. It was also asserted by the Defendants and not denied by the
 Plaintiff that as many as 40 films/shows have been produced in
 various languages with the name 'KHILADI' out of which only two
 were produced by the Plaintiff. The argument of the Plaintiff that most
 of the films were released with a title with prefix/suffix to the word
 'KHILADI' cannot inure to its advantage considering that Plaintiff
 does not have any registration in the word 'KHILADI' and as held
 above can claim no monopoly or proprietary right on it. Making and
 release of as many as 40 movies/shows also supports the case of the
 Defendants that the word 'KHILADI' is common to trade and it
 makes no difference if the titles were with/without suffix/prefix as this
 goes to show how frequent the word has been used in the film
 industry. Defendants have also stated that in 2013 a film was released
 under the Title 'KHILADI' in Bengali language, which is unrebutted. ago and from then till now if 40 film/shows under the name
 'KHILADI' with or without prefix/suffix have been released, at this
 stage, Plaintiff cannot assert likelihood of confusion. 61. Next is the claim of passing off, which is a tortious liability and
 rights flow from the common law unlike infringement which has its
 genesis in a Statute. The foundation and ethos of an action of
 passing off lies in misrepresentation and deceit. The three ingredients
 of an action of passing off are: (a) goodwill and reputation; (b) misrepresentation; and (c) loss and injury to the goodwill and
 reputation arising out of likelihood of confusion amongst members of
 the public with imperfect recollection and average intelligence.
 Therefore, to succeed in an action for passing off, Plaintiff will have
 to show that each of the three ingredients exist. 62. Plaintiff contends that he has an insurmountable reputation in
 the registered trademark 'KHILADI' and Defendants have adopted an
 identical mark with a dishonest intention to ride on the Plaintiff's
 reputation. It is asserted that Plaintiff's 'KHILADI' trademark is
 distinctive and has acquired secondary meaning for myriad reasons
 such as extensive use of the mark, promotion and advertising,
 humongous success of the films and substantial revenue generated. It
 is claimed that the film is an iconic movie like Sholay, Zanjeer,
 Deewar and the only reason why Defendants have chosen to use
 'KHILADI' as a title of their movie is to misrepresent and confuse
 people into believing that the impugned movie is from Plaintiff's
 production. This is leading to dilution of the mark and damage and
 injury to the reputation of the Plaintiff. Defendants, on the other hand,
 have countered the submissions by urging that Plaintiff's first film Signature Not Verifiedwas released in 1992 and the second one in 1994 and since then no Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 51 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 film has been produced by the Plaintiff with the word 'KHILADI'
 while several others have been produced and released worldwide. On
 OTT Platforms there can be no confusion even otherwise as anyone
 who wants to watch a film will first view the poster of the film and
 then make a choice. 63. A similar issue arose before the Bombay High Court in K.M.
 Multani v. Paramount Talkies of India, Ltd., and Others , 1942 SCC
 OnLine Bom 86, where a suit was filed alleging passing off in respect
 of a film produced by the Plaintiff titled 'Virginia'. Defendant No. 1
 imported an American film into India called 'Virginia' and restraint
 was sought by the Plaintiff with damages as an alternative claim.
 Plaintiff alleged that law of passing off is a species of unfair
 competition by which one person attempts to obtain by deceptive
 devices the benefit of reputation which another has established for
 himself in any particular trade or business. The action is intended to
 enforce the well-known equity, namely, to prevent a Defendant from
 doing that which is calculated to mislead the public and to lead them
 to think that which belongs to the Defendant is a thing which belongs
 to the Plaintiff. There must, however, be a strong probability of
 confusion in the usual course of trade to prove passing off. Defendants
 contested the claim by arguing that there is no resemblance
 whatsoever between the two rival films except for the name. The
 storyline, plot, the incidences depicted etc. were different. Learned
 Single Bench of the Bombay High Court dismissed the suit and the
 appeal was also dismissed by the Division Bench. I may pen down
 that being very old judgements, both judgements are reported in
 continuity in the Reporter. Para 15 onwards are the views of the Signature Not VerifiedDivision Bench as follows:- Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 52 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 "9. The question therefore which arises in this case is whether
 the name Virginia has become associated to such a considerable
 extent with the plaintiff that the Court would allow him a monopoly
 of the name by declaring that no one else can use it as the title of his
 film. The word 'Virginia, as I have said before, is a geographical
 name, and the tendency of the Courts at present is to restrict the
 monopoly of the use of geographical names as business or trade
 names. Apart from that the plaintiff must, in order to succeed, prove
 that by reason of the defendants' Action his business has suffered, or
 that there is a tangible risk or probability of its suffering damage.
 The probability must be a strong one. In (1899) A.C. 83 [(1899)
 1899 A.C. 83 : 68 L.J. Ch. 74 : 79 L.T. 645 : 15 T.L.R. 110, North
 Cheshire and Manchester Brewery Co. v. Manchester Brewery Co..]
 the Manchester Brewery Co. Ltd., was carrying on business under
 that name for years. The appellants bought an old business called
 "The North Cheshire Brewery Co. Ltd.," and then (without
 intending to deceive) got themselves incorporated and registered
 under the name "The North Cheshire and Manchester Brewery Co.
 Ltd." It was held upon the evidence that as a matter of fact the name
 of the appellant company was calculated to deceive, and that
 therefore the appellants must be restrained by injunction in the usual
 way. In all these cases the question really, is not one of law but a
 question of fact to be decided upon the evidence in the case, if any.
 In deciding such question the Court has to consider not merely the
 similarity of name, but the similarity in the make-up, the similarity in
 the subject-matter and other surrounding circumstances. In (1940)
 A.C. 112 [('40) 27 A.I.R. 1940 P.C. 55 : 187 I.C. 449 : 1940 A.C.
 112 : 109 L.J.P.C. 11 : 161 L.T. 396 : 83 S.J. 796 : 56 T.L.R. 9 : 10. In this particular case the surrounding circumstances, the
 difference in the get up, in the language, in the plot and cast, do not
 lead to the necessary result that there would be a strong probability
 of confusion of the two pictures in the mind of the public, and
 therefore a strong probability of deception, There is no doubt a
 similarity or rather sameness in the title. The fact that both films are Signature Not Verified motion pictures is not an additional circumstance calculated to lead Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 53 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 to any confusion. The fact that both are films and the fact that both
 are called Virginia do not in my opinion make up a prima facie case
 for the plaintiff. It has not been proved but merely conjectured that
 the identity of the names might lead to confusion between the two
 films. As I have said before, the one is an Indian and the other a
 foreign film. The subject-matter of the two films and the get-up are
 different. The difference in the get-up does form an element in
 considering the question of the probability of the deception. Plaintiff
 has not led any evidence of actual deception as the alleged
 infringement was recent, nor has he led any evidence of members of
 the public that they themselves would be deceived. Such evidence,
 though not strictly necessary, is often useful as a guide to the Court
 in determining the question of the probability of the deception. The
 want of such evidence cannot be got over by calling an expert
 witness and asking him generally what effect the sameness in the
 names of the two films would have on the public. It was pointed out
 in 67 I.A. 212 [('40) 27 A.I.R. 1940 P.C. 86 : 187 I.C. 658 : I.L.R.
 (1940) Kar. P.C. 171 : 67 I.A. 212 : I.L.R. (1940) All. 446 ( P.C.),
 Thomas Bear & Sons (India) v. Prayag Narain .] , that the vital
 element in a passing off action was the probability of deception
 which might depend on a number of matters as well as the question
 of similarity or the marks or of the get-up. Viscount Maugham
 observed at p. 217 that there was no such person as "an expert in
 human nature," and it was now well settled that a witness could not
 be called to say that it was likely that purchasers of the goods would
 be deceived. It is equally futile in my opinion to call an expert and to
 ask him what percentage of the cinema-going public go merely by
 the title of the film, unless there is a basis for any calculation made
 by him, and there can be none in the case of a calculation which is
 based partly on experience and partly on guess-work. The Court,
 moreover, can draw its own inference, for the matter does not
 depend entirely upon any evidence of confusion by sameness or
 similarity in the names resulting in an injury. 11. Plaintiff was at some pains to describe that section of the
 public who in his opinion were most likely to be misled by the
 sameness of the name of the two films. He said it was the section of
 the public consisting of those who patronize both English and Indian
 films; they were the persons who were most likely to be misled. He
 said that they were the majority of the cinema-goers, but on what
 basis he says so is not dear. He further stated that a large portion of
 that majority went only by title and never cared to read the
 advertisements or posters to find out whether it was a foreign or an
 Indian picture. Now the section of the public who patronize both
 foreign and Indian films would generally consist of educated or
 fairly educated persons, and it is not clear on what grounds it could
 be said that they would go only by reading the name of the film or on
 the recommendation of others without the slightest inquiry as to Signature Not Verified what the film was about or whether it was Indian or foreign. In the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 54 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 same case in (1940) A.C. 112 [('40) 27 A.I.R. 1940 P.C. 55 : 187
 I.C. 449 : 1940 A.C. 112 : 109 L.J.P.C. 11 : 161 L.T. 396 : 83 S.J.
 796 : 56 T.L.R. 9 : (1939) 4 All. E.R. 192, Francis Day and Hunter,
 Ltd. v. Twentieth Century Fox Corporation, Ltd.] , it was stated at p.
 126 that the member of the public, who is supposed to be likely to be
 deceived, must, to start with, be assumed to know what he was
 wanting to see or hear. If he was presumed to be wanting to know
 whether what he was about to hear or see was a song or a film, I see
 no reason why he should not also be presumed to know, which he
 can know without much effort, whether the film which he was about
 to see was a foreign or an Indian production. It is not sufficient to
 say that any thoughtless person might unwarrantably jump to the
 conclusion that the two films were the same. Anyone who took some
 trouble would certainly find out the difference between the two.
 Counsel referred to the recent judgment in 42 Bom. L.R. 924 [('41)
 28 A.I.R. 1941 Bom. 3 : 193 I.C. 392 : 42 Bom. L.R. 924, J.C. Eno. Ltd. v. Vishnu Chemical Co. ] , but that case really does not apply. In
 that case the plaintiffs had acquired a right to the exclusive use of
 the words "Fruit Salt," and it was held that the defendants had no
 right to use the words in any other language in connexion with
 similar goods. xxx xxx xxx 15. The plaintiff must therefore prove that the action of the
 defendant has infringed some proprietary right of his own. It is not
 necessary to prove any fraudulent intention on the part of the
 defendant, although, if a fraudulent intention can be proved, that
 usually assists the plaintiff's case. It follows, in my judgment, that
 two issues must always arise in a passing-off action: First, has the
 name or description or make-up, or whatever it may be, of the
 wrongful user of which the plaintiff complains, come to be
 associated in the public mind with the goods, business, or works of
 the plaintiff; secondly, is the defendant so describing, or getting up,
 his goods or whatever it may be, as to be likely to mislead the public
 into believing that they are acquiring the plaintiff's goods, when in
 fact they are acquiring the defendants' goods. As Lord Halsbury put
 it in (1896) A.C. 199 [(1896) 1896 A.C. 199 : 65 L.J.Q.B. 381 : 74
 L.T. 289 : 44 W.R. 638, Reddaway v. Banham.] the foundation of a
 pas-sing-off action is that nobody is entitled to represent his goods
 as the goods of somebody else. There is, of course, a great variety in
 the nature of passing-off actions. Sometimes the plaintiff's goods are
 described by purely fancy names, sometimes by names which are
 descriptive or their nature, or they may be referred to merely by the
 name of the plaintiff, and sometimes the defendant may bear the
 same name. The issues in each case have to be framed with reference
 to the facts of that case, but, in my judgment, the plaintiff has always
 to succeed substantially on two issues of the nature above Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 55 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 mentioned, the first founding the plaintiff's right to sue, the second
 the defendant's liability to be sued. 16. The film industry is comparatively modern, and apparently
 the only case of a passing-off action relating in any way to a film is
 the recent decision of the Privy Council in (1940) A.C. 112 [('40) 27
 A.I.R. 1940 P.C. 55 : 187 I.C. 449 : 1940 A.C. 112 : 109 L.J.P.C. 11
 : 161 L.T. 396 : 83 S.J. 796 : 56 T.L.R. 9 : (1939) 4 All. E.R.
 192, Francis Day and Hunter, Ltd. v. Twentieth Century Fox
 Corporation, Ltd.] where the complaint was that a film was being
 produced by the defendants under the same name as a song the
 copyright in which belonged to the plaintiffs. The Privy Council held
 that there could be no possibility of deception of the public by
 producing of film under the name of a well-known song. Courts
 frequently have to adapt old established principles to new conditions
 of life, and it is quite possible that in relation to the film industry
 some developments may take place in the law relating to passing-off.
 The evidence in this case is that the title of a film is very important;
 and another peculiarity of a film is that its life is comparatively
 short. It is not like a book which may be in circulation for years. It
 might be very difficult to establish the reputation of a film under a
 particular title, and its association in the public mind with the
 plaintiff, by evidence of the actual production of the film. I can
 imagine a case in which the advent of a film under a particular title
 had been very extensively advertised, and arrangements made for
 the booking of the film, and in which some other person produced a
 film under the same title shortly before the advertised film arrived. It
 is quite possible that in a case of that nature a passing-off action
 would succeed, although generally the plaintiff must establish the
 reputation of his property by actual results. See the case in (1888) 38
 Ch. D. 139 [(1888) 38 Ch. D. 189 : 58 L.J. Ch. 36 : 59 L.T. 187 : 36
 W.R. 433, Licensed Victuallers' Newspaper Co. v. Bingham.] in
 which the plaintiffs sued to restrain the defendants from publishing a
 newspaper under the same title as the plaintiffs' newspaper and
 failed on the ground that the plaintiffs' newspaper had only been
 published for three days before the date of action, and the Court held
 that sufficient reputation could not be acquired is that time to found
 a passing-off action. xxx xxx xxx 18. In my opinion, there can be no possibility of deception
 between two things so essentially different. It is, no doubt,
 unfortunate that two films should have exactly the same title, and the
 fact may lead to some confusion and inconvenience in the booking
 and production of the films. But the inconvenience to the plaintiff is
 no greater than the inconvenience to the defendants. Both parties
 have without any intention to deceive taken the same title for their
 films, and the plaintiff has no right to restrain the defendants from Signature Not Verified using the title, unless he can show that it has become associated in Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 56 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 the minds of the public with his film and nobody else's. He has called
 virtually no evidence at all." 64. In this context, I may usefully allude to a judgment of this Court
 in Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. & Anr. (supra), where the Court
 has carved out a thin but an important distinction between consumer
 goods or product and a movie and held as follows:- 65. Applying the observations and principles laid down in the
 aforesaid judgments, in my prima facie view, Plaintiff has been unable
 to make out a case for passing off. The plot of the two movies, the
 lead cast, difference in the language leading to a different class of
 viewers etc. are distinguishing factors and it is difficult to accept that
 merely on account of commonality of the word 'KHILADI', the
 moviegoers are likely to be deceived or confused. Confusion and
 deception caused by misrepresentation are vital elements in a passing
 off action. As rightly canvassed by the Defendants, Plaintiff has not
 made a movie with the title 'KHILADI' post 1994 and nor it is the
 case of the Plaintiff that it intends to do so in the near future. This
 Court also agrees with the Defendants that the movie is out of theatres
 and is only on the OTT/Satellite platforms and any viewer would first
 carefully look through the entire poster of the film, including actors,
 film Title, storyline, director etc. before making a choice to watch the
 film and in this context, the pictures of the actors would be enough to
 enable the viewer to make a choice and understand that Defendants'
 film has no relation to the Plaintiff's 'KHILADI'. It was observed by
 this Court in Biswaroop Roy Choudhary (supra) that when words or
 phrases are used which are in the common parlance, the risk is
 inevitable and normally, proprietary or exclusive use of a common
 word should not be given jural imprimatur. 66. Arguments were canvassed on behalf of the parties on whether
 titles of movies can be changed post release and if so, the procedure. argued that even post release of a film, the title can be changed,
 Defendants argued to the contrary and added that even assuming they
 can be changed, it entails change of campaigns, designs etc. involving
 huge expenditure. However, this Court need not detain itself on this
 controversy for the reason that Court is not directing the Defendants to
 change the title or the get up of the poster in view of the prima facie
 finding that Plaintiff has not established infringement/passing off
 against the Defendants. The argument that Defendants ought to have
 conducted a search before adopting the mark/title for the impugned
 movie has no legs to stand in the present case as Plaintiff does not
 have registration in the word KHILADI. In respect of the title
 registration certificate from Telangana State Film Chamber of
 Commerce, Defendant has explained that there is no legal requirement
 to approach any particular association or body for the title certificate
 and he approached this authority because the film is originally in
 Telugu language and because Defendant No.2, the producer operates
 from Telangana. There is no material on record to rebut this stand and
 in any case, this is irrelevant to the issue of alleged infringement/
 passing off at least at this stage. 67. The judgments relied upon by the Plaintiff no doubt lay down
 various propositions of law, which are beyond any debate, however,
 the same do not aid the Plaintiff. Renaissance Hotel Holdings Inc. (supra), deals with infringement of the registered word mark
 'Renaissance', which the Supreme Court found was infringed by the
 Defendants' mark 'Sai Renaissance' on ground of visual, phonetic and
 structural similarity as also because use of the impugned mark by the
 Defendant as a trade name was hit by Section 29(5) of the Act. word 'KHILADI' and comparison of the registered device mark with
 the Defendants' mark shows no similarity. In Ahmed Oomerbhoy &
 Anr. v. Gautam Tank & Ors. , 2007 SCC OnLine Del 1685, relied
 upon by the Plaintiff, there was registration in the word 'Postman' as
 well as the device mark 'Postman' and in that context, this Court held
 that since the impugned mark 'Super Postman' was similar, goods
 were the same and the area in trade is also common, triple identity rule
 was satisfied, infringement and passing off were made out. Judgment
 in M/s. Hindustan Pencils Private Limited v. M/s. India Stationery
 Products Co. & Another, 1989 SCC OnLine Del 34, was also relied
 on by the Plaintiff to contend that delay cannot come in the way of
 grant of interim injunction if the Plaintiff is able to make out a case of
 infringement. There can be no quarrel with the proposition. However,
 as aforementioned, in cases relating to movies, Courts have ordinarily
 denied injunction where the Plaintiff approaches the Court close to the
 scheduled date of the release of the movie. For the same reason, the
 judgment in Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. and Another (supra)
 will not inure to the advantage of the Plaintiff. The judgment in Anil
 Kapoor Film Co. Pvt. Ltd. (supra) in fact favours the Defendants
 where it is observed that a moviegoer is not gullible to not know what
 he/she wants to see, hear or read and that the title of the movie,
 without any content similarity cannot warrant interim injunction. The
 judgment in Kanungo Media (P) Ltd. (supra) also does not help the
 Plaintiff as the Plaintiff has not been able to establish that 'KHILADI'
 has acquired secondary meaning and/or association to its movie. 68. Reliance on Mr. Shivaji Rao Gaikwad (supra) is also
 misplaced as the case does not deal with infringement of a registered Signature Not Verifiedtrademark but is predicated on using the celebrity personality of Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 60 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 Mr. Rajnikant using his caricature. Plaintiff relied on the judgment
 passed by the Supreme Court in the case of Shri Babuji Rawji Shah (supra), for the proposition that an injunction can be granted even
 after CBFC Certificate has been issued to a movie for its Title.
 However , the said judgment does not inure to the benefit of the
 Plaintiff as in the said case, Petitioner approached the Court before
 release of the movie 'Gangubai Kathiawadi' alleging defamation and
 the question in the case was about morality/defamation vis-a-vis
 CBFC certification and even then the Court refused to grant injunction
 on three factors i.e. (i) phenomenal expenses incurred in producing the
 film; (ii) film was scheduled to release on the next day; and (iii)
 balance of convenience was in favour of the Respondent therein.
 Argument on CBFC certification even otherwise is irrelevant at this
 stage for the reasons stated above. 69. The judgments in Shambhu Nath & Brothers & Ors. (supra)
 and Ramdev Food Products (P) Ltd. (supra) also do not help the
 Plaintiff, as in both the cases the Courts had come to a conclusion that
 the words 'Toofan' and 'Ramdev' respectively were essential/
 dominant part of the Plaintiffs' registered marks. 70. For the aforesaid reasons, this Court is of the view that the
 Plaintiff has failed to make out a prima facie case in its favour and
 balance of convenience also does not lie in favour of the Plaintiff.
 Rather, the balance of convenience tilts in favour of the Defendants
 and it is the Defendants who will suffer irreparable loss and injury if
 the injunction is granted. 71. The application is accordingly dismissed. 72. Needless to state that the observations and opinion of the Court Signature Not Verifiedexpressed in the present judgment are only tentative and prima facie Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 61 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54 and will have no bearing on the final adjudication of the suit on
 merits. CS(COMM) 100/2022 & CCP(O) 18/2022, I.A. 4359/2022 73. List before the Roster Bench on 12.09.2023, subject to orders of
 Hon'ble Judge In-charge (Original Side). JYOTI SINGH, J
 AUGUST 17 , 2023/Shivam Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 100/2022 Page 62 of 62 Signing Date:20.08.2023 20:58:54