Heard. Rule in all these matters. Rule is made returnable

forthwith. 2. This is a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure seeking quashment of Crime No.121/2022 registered with

Kotwali Police Station, Ahmednagar and subsequently transferred to the

Economic Offences Wing, Ahmednagar, for the offences punishable under Section 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal

Code and also under Section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest

of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999 (herein after the MPID Act ). 3. The substance of the allegations as can be deduced are to the

effect that respondent No.2 is a Cooperative Bank registered under the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (herein after the Cooperative Societies Act ). The Reserved Bank of India (RBI) issued

licence to it for banking business by order dated 10.12.1986. The

petitioner was elected as a Director on the Board of Directors for the

tenure from November 2014 to November 2019. The RBI appointed an

administrator to manage the affairs of the bank with effect from

01.08.2019. After the tenure of the Administrator was over, the

petitioner was elected as a Chairman of the Board of Directors for the

tenure 02.12.2021 to December 2026. He is stated to have resigned on 4/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

06.07.2022 after noticing the irregularities in the administration of the

bank by other directors and the staff. 4. Noticing loss suffered by respondent No.2 - Bank resulting in

negative net worth, the RBI by order dated 06.12.2021 put restrictions on

the bank and thereafter by the order dated 04.10.2023 it cancelled the

bank's licence and a liquidator was appointed on 08.11.2023. 5. The respondent No.3 lodged a complaint with the Economic

Offences Wing , Ahmednagar (EOW) alleging fraud having been practised

while distributing loans. The Administrator was directed by the EOW

and conducted an inquiry. 6. The Administrator on inquiry concluded that irregularities

were committed in respect of disbursement of loan in eight loan accounts

holding one Dilip Gandhi, a borrower and guarantor as well as the valuer

responsible for it. 7. Simultaneously, respondent No.3 filed a complaint with

Kotwali Police Station in the year 2019, however, since nothing was

transpiring, Criminal Writ Petition No.1224/2020 was filed in this Court

and pursuant to the directions of the Court the present crime was

registered at Kotwali Police Station and subsequently it was transferred to

the EOW. 8. It is alleged in the FIR that respondent No.3 is the member

and account holder of respondent No.2 - bank. He was also a director

between 2008 and 2014 and having personal knowledge about the 5/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

statutory audit that was being conducted every year. He alleges that after

having gone through the audit reports for the period between 2015-2016

and 2020-2021 he realized that there was rampant mismanagement and

even misappropriation committed in connivance by the directors, officers

and the borrowers causing huge loss to the Bank. He has given several

details in respect of the specific loans disbursed to various entities and

the manner in which misappropriation was committed. 9. The learned advocate Mr. Thorat for the petitioner at the

outset would submit that the petitioner does not have any objection for

allowing the applications for intervention. He would also submit that

even he has not been objecting to the prosecution and is not putting up

any challenge to the offences being invoked against him under the Indian

Penal Code under different sections. He submits that he is merely putting

up a challenge to the petitioner's prosecution under the provisions of the MPID Act . 10. He would submit that the object for which MPID Act was

brought into the statute book was to monitor functioning of the Financial

Establishments in the State and to protect the interest of the depositors

who are assured of attractive interest but fail to keep the promise

resulting in public resentment since they are duped by the unscrupulous

activities. 11. He would submit that Section 3 of the MPID Act makes any

fraudulent default in repayment of deposit by a financial establishment a 6/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

crime. Section 2(d) defines "Financial Establishment" and though it

expressly excludes a co-operative society owned or controlled by any

State or Central Government, his emphasis is on the fact that even this

definition of "Financial Establishment" expressly excludes a "Banking

Company" as defined under Clause (c) of Section 5 of the Banking

Regulation Act, 1949 (the BR Act ). He would submit that though

respondent No.2 - bank is neither owned and controlled by the State

Government or the Central Government, it would still be a "banking

company" as defined under Section 5(c) of the BR Act by implication. He

would advert our attention to the provision of Section 5(c) of the BR Act

which defines a 'Banking Company' to mean any company which

transacts the business of banking in India. He would submit that Section

56 of the BR Act expressly lays down the extent to which its provisions

would apply to the Co-operative Societies. He would submit that by

virtue of amendment in Section 56 by the Act 39 of 2020, it has now

been converted as a non-obstante clause and expressly states that

notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the provisions of

the BR Act would apply to or in relation to co-operative societies as they

apply to the banking companies subject to certain modifications. He

would submit that by Sub-Clause (cci) of Clause (c) of Section 56 ,

definition of Co-operative Bank and by a similar Sub-Clause (ccii-a) Co-

operative Societies have been defined to be a Co-operative Bank or a

Central Co-operative Bank and a society registered under Co-operative 7/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt Societies Act . He would, therefore, submit that since by virtue of such

amendment effected in the year 2021, Section 56 expressly declares that

the provisions of the BR Act would have primacy over any Act in respect

of a co-operative society, the whole purpose of promulgating MPID Act as

declared in the objective stands subserved. He would submit that the

very object which led the State legislature to bring into the statute book

the MPID Act stands sub-served by implication since even a Co-operative

Bank would have to be compliant with the provisions of the BR Act having perineal supervision of the RBI. 12. Mr. Thorat would then submit that "Financial Establishment" 13. Mr. Thorat would refer to and rely upon the decision in the

matter of Pandurang Ganpati Chaugule Vs. Vishwasrao Patil Murgud

Sahakari Bank Ltd. ; (2020) 9 SCC 215 and particularly the conclusion 8/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

drawn therein based on the interpretation of the provisions of the BR Act and the amendment effected therein in Section 56(a) which came into

being on 01.03.1966. He would precisely advert our attention to the

paragraph No.103 of the judgment, wherein, it has been observed that as

a consequence of inclusion of Section 56(a) in the BR Act with effect

from 01.03.1966, the category of banking companies as defined under Section 5(c) of the BR Act would encompass co-operative banks

registered under the State Co-operative Laws and Multi-State Co-

operative Banks registered under the Multi-State Co-operative Societies

Act, 2002 . 14. Per contra, the learned APP, the learned advocate for

respondent No.2, the learned advocate for respondent No.3 and that of

the intervenors would submit that the very stand of the petitioner that

any co-operative bank registered under the Co-operative Societies Act would stand excluded from the ambit of MPID Act that too relying upon

the decision in the matter of Pandurang Ganpati Chaugule (supra) is

fallacious. A division bench of this Court in the matter of Shridhar S/o

Udhav Kolpe V. State of Maharashtra (Criminal Application No.5130 OF

2017 dated 03.09.2018) has held that the provisions of the MPID Act would apply to the co-operative banks except those have been expressly

excluded by virtue of they being owned and controlled by the State

Government in accordance with definition of "Financial Establishment" 15. They would submit that in view of the decision in the matter

of New Horizon Sugar Mills Ltd. Vs. Government of Pondicherry ; (2012)

10 SCC 575, State legislatures have been declared to have the authority

to enact laws concerning the financial establishments to safeguard the

interest of the investors. They would refer to the decisions in the

following matters : 16. On facts, they would argue that it is a matter of fraud

exceeding Rs.100 crore and the offence being cognizable, the prosecution

should be extended an opportunity to substantiate the charge. 17. It is necessary to reiterate that as has been submitted by the

learned advocate Mr. Thorat, the petitioner has not been seriously

objecting to invocation of the provisions under the Indian Penal Code and

is merely interested in putting up a challenge to invocation of Section 3 of the MPID Act. Consequently, the inquiry before us is limited in

ascertaining as to if a co-operative bank registered under the Maharashtra

Co-operative Societies Act stands excluded from the net of the MPID Act ,

by virtue of implication, in view of amendment w.e.f. 01.04.2021 to Section 56 of the BR Act making it applicable to the co-operative banks

registered under the Central or State legislation. 18. At the outset, it is necessary to bear in mind that as far as

power of the state legislature in enacting MPID Act is concerned, the 10/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

issue has been authoritatively put to rest by the observations of the

Supreme Court in the matter of New Horizon Sugar Mills Ltd. (supra). 19. Obviously, the object of enacting MPID Act is to secure the

interest of the investors in the wake of mushrooming growth of the

financial establishments. Section 3 of the MPID Act inter alia provides

for punishment for any financial misdeeds as contemplated therein. It

uses the word "Financial Establishments" which has been defined under Section 2(d) of the MPID Act and reads thus : 20. As can be seen, the State Legislature in its wisdom has

excluded the Co-operative Societies owned and controlled by the State

Government, it also excludes the 'banking companies' as defined under Section 5(c) of the BR Act. 21. At the first blush, the erudite submission of the learned

advocate Mr. Thorat relying upon Pandurang Ganpati Chaugule (supra) is

indeed attractive. However, it overlooks the fact that Pandurang Ganpati

Chaugule (supra) is a matter, wherein, the Supreme Court was called

upon to decide as to if the provisions of the Securitisation and

Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest

Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act ) are applicable to the Co-operative Banks 11/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

registered under the State legislation. It is in this context that Pandurang

Ganpati Chaugule (supra) will have to be understood. The issue before

us was not germane to the decision in the matter of Pandurang Ganpati

Chaugule (supra). With respect, a co-operative bank by virtue of Section

56(a) having been included in the BR Act with effect from 01.03.1966,

would be a banking company as defined under Section 5(c) of the BR

Act. However, the issue before us presents a peculiar state of affairs,

which is in the context of MPID Act which makes certain acts punishable

precisely for the object of securing interest of the investors. Even if a co-

operative bank for the purpose of the provisions of SARFAESI Act would

be a banking company as has been held in Pandurang Ganpati Chaugule (supra), the definition of "Financial Establishment" contained in Section

2(d) of the MPID Act would be decisive. 22. The State Legislature in its wisdom, while defining "Financial

Establishment" has consciously excluded only the Co-operative Societies

owned and controlled by the State Government as a distinct and separate

category, as distinguished from a "Banking Company" as defined under Section 5(c) of the BR Act. If this be so, harmonious interpretation will

have to be resorted to in gathering the intention of the legislature. Had it

really intended to exclude the provisions of MPID Act qua any

establishment governed by the BR Act , it could have expressly stated so. 23. Bearing in mind the fact that Section 56(a) was inserted in BR Act on 01.03.1966 one will have to proceed on the premise that the 12/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

State legislature was aware that even a co-operative bank registered

under the Co-operative Societies Act would be governed by the BR Act .

If, still, it has defined 'Financial Establishment' by expressly making

distinction between a 'co-operative society' owned and controlled by the

State Government and a 'Banking Company' as defined under Section

5(c) of the BR Act, in our considered view, 'Financial Establishment' as

defined under Section 2(d) would include a co-operative bank, not

owned and controlled by the Central Government or the State

Government. The issue considered and decided by the Supreme Court in

the matter of Pandurang Ganpati Chaugule (supra) will have to be

understood in the backdrop of these factors, which in our considered

view are important. 24. Conversely, merely because a co-operative bank to which the

provisions of the BR Act are applicable by virtue of insertion of Section

56(a) with effect from 01.03.1966 or by virtue of amendment coming

into effect from 01.04.2021 thereby transforming into a non-obstante

clause, cannot be said to have been excluded by implication from the

ambit of the MPID Act , in view of the definition of 'Financial

Establishment' contained in Section 2(d) of the MPID Act. 25. True it is that any co-operative bank registered under the

Central or State legislature to which provisions of BR Act are applicable,

would be under supervision of the RBI. However, one cannot lose site of

the fact that the BR Act merely seeks to have a control over the 13/14 969.Cri.WP.157.2024+.odt

functioning of all the banking companies or the co-operative banks,

however, it does not contain any specific provision defining any act or

provide for any punishment for the offences which are punishable under

Section 409, 420, 467, 468 and 471 read with Section 34 of the Indian

Penal Code. Only some acts have been made punishable by making the

offences cognizable as mentioned in Section 47 . 26. Consequently, it cannot be said that the purpose for which MPID Act has been brought in the statute book stands served by bringing

the co-operative banks registered under the State legislature within the

sweep of the BR Act . Both these enactments operate in different spheres. 27. With respect, the line of reasoning we have resorted to gets

corroboration from a similar view taken by the Supreme Court in the

matter of Soma Suresh Kumar Vs. Govt. of A.P. ; (2013) 10 SCC 677. 28. In view of the above, the Criminal Writ Petition is dismissed.

Pending criminal applications are disposed of. Rule is discharged.