1. The present appeal is directed against a judgment and order
dated 09.03.2018 of a learned Single Judge of this court. The LPA No.160/2018 Page 1 of 63 impugned judgment upheld the orders dated 16.01.2018 and
17.01.2018 passed by the first Respondent i.e. Competition
Commission of India (hereinafter "CCI"). The CCI's orders were
passed on the two review/recall applications and application for cross
examination filed by the first Appellant (hereafter "Cadila"). The
applications filed by Cadila sought recall of the CCI's order dated
17.11.2015 under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 ("the
Act" hereafter). Those directions regard were that ―in the course of
investigation, if involvement of any other party is found, the DG shall
investigate the conduct of such other parties who may have indulged
in such contravention". 2. Cadila's review/recall application was preferred on 8th
September 2017. Two subsequent reminder applications were also
filed by Cadila on 08.11.2017 and 29.11.2017. By the CCI's order of
12.12.2017, Cadila was directed to urge on the merits of the
review/recall application at the time of the final hearing on
16.01.2018. The opposite parties directed to file their responses to the
DG report by 05.01.2018. Hearing was deferred from 12.12.2017 to
16.01.2018 and 17.01.2018 in terms of the CCI's order dated
21.11.2017. Cadila filed its common reply to the investigation report
submitted by the respondent Director General ("DG" hereafter), on
08.01.2018 before the CCI. It specifically requested that its
application for Review/Recall be heard separately and urged CCI to
pass a separate order in this regard since - in case the same were
allowed-it may not have to undergo the proceedings under the Competition Act . 3. The CCI delivered its orders on 16.01.2018 and 17.01.2018,
rejecting Cadila's review/recall application, Cadila urges that these
orders were dispatched on or after 09.02.2018 and received on
(13)14.02.2018. The impugned judgment upheld CCI's orders dated
16-17.01.2018. Necessary Facts 4. Three information petitions/complaints were preferred by - a) M/s Alis Medical Agency ("AMA"), b) M/s Stockwell Pharma,
Surat ("SP") and c) M/s Apna Dawa Bazar, Vadodara ("ADB") before
the CCI. Those three entities alleged that they were denied supplies of
medicines, when they approached certain pharmaceutical companies,
or their clearing and forwarding agents, on the alleged directions of
the Federation of Gujarat State Chemist and Druggists Association
("the federation" hereafter) in the State of Gujarat. One Dayabhai
Patel was a partner in both ADB and Reliance Medical Agency
("RMA"). It was alleged that Dayabhai Patel had filed another case -in
the CCI- on a similar issue through another firm Reliance Agency
("RA" hereafter). One Nayan Raval, the Authorized Signatory of the
third respondent RMA was also a partner in ADB and RA. 5. Cadila alleged that RMA prepared a pay order bearing
No.371845 dated 09.07.2015 for `50,000/- in favour of CCI for filing
the information. By letter dated 09.07.2015 RMA approached Cadila
through its C&F Agent i.e. the second petitioner, seeking supply of
certain pharmaceutical products. On 03.08.2015, the second
information petition dated 27.07.2015 was filed by RMA (Case No. LPA No.160/2018 Page 3 of 63 68/2015 before the CCI) against the Chemist & Druggist Association,
Vadodara and certain pharmaceutical companies including Cadila,
alleging limiting and control supply of drugs in Vadodara by requiring
"No Objection Certificate" for appointment of stockists. It was alleged
that Dayabhai Patel a partner in Apna Dawa Bazar, is also partner in
RMA. 6. On 26.08.2015, CCI took cognizance of the information, by an
order and called upon RMA to explain its case on 30.09.2015. It is
alleged that none of the writ petitioners were informed about this or
called for hearing. Cadila alleged that it received balance payment of
`3,25,000/- (for the order dated 09.07.2015) on 24.09.2015. Cadila
stated that it fulfilled the order by supplying the drugs needed to RMA
between 26-29.09.2015. On 30.09.2015, RMA appeared before the
CCI. The CCI passed an order dated 17.11.2015 under Section 26
(1) of the Act directing the DG to investigate the role of certain
opposite parties for the alleged contravention (of the Act).
Consequently, the DG issued notice to Cadila under Section 36
(2) read with Section 41 (2) of the Act with direction to furnish certain
information on or before 29.01.2016. Cadila, after seeking some
extension, submitted a partial reply to the DG's notice on 05.02.2016
providing all the information and documents (except one, which was
submitted on 11.02.2016). A further notice was issued by DG on
25.04.2016. Cadila filed a response to this notice as well. 7. Cadila alleges that that it had placed on record the facts relating
to RMA and the order dated 09.07.2015. It also averred that even
after the order dated 09.07.2015, the RMA used to place orders on LPA No.160/2018 Page 4 of 63 regular basis with it and goods were duly supplied. It was also alleged
that RMA submitted three CDs containing certain material. Cadila
argues that these CDs were supplied in earlier cases and therefore
could not be relied upon. The DG issued summons on 05.05.2016
under Section 36(2) read with Section 41(2) of the Act. 8. On 05.07.2016 on the request of the DG, the Federation was
made an opposite party in Case no. 68/2015 by the CCI. The DG filed
an investigation report with the CCI on 01.05.2017. On 20.06.2017
CCI considered the DG's report and passed an order forwarding their
electronic copies to RMA; it also forwarded electronic copies of the
report to Cadila's CMD and other functionaries of DG as well. On
22.06.2017, CCI forwarded its order of 20.06.2017 and directed
Cadila to submit its reply to the DG's report by 20.07.2017. The letter
also stated that the case would be listed for final hearing on the DG's
report on 08.08.2017. Cadila urges that after receiving the DG's
report, it became aware that it was an opposite party in that case. It
therefore, appointed legal counsel for conducting the inspection and
reviewing documents forming the basis of the said case.
On 20.07.2017, Cadila sought a request for extension of time for
review of documents and filing appropriate reply to the DG report
along with photocopy of the authorization letter in favour of his
counsel. On 24.07.2017, the first inspection application was rejected.
The second inspection application was filed by Cadila on 27.07.2017. 9. Cadila was granted inspection of the records which it conducted
on 31.07.2017. It (Cadila) filed another, a third inspection application
in view of the voluminous record and time constraint. On 02.08.2017 LPA No.160/2018 Page 5 of 63 an application for obtaining certified copies of certain documents filed
with CCI. On 04.08.2017 inspection was granted to Cadila, which
conducted the inspection of certain files pursuant to the permission
granted by the CCI. On 08.08.2017 first hearing was held before the
CCI. 10. Cadila argued that it was awaiting receipt of certain copies of
the documents from the CCI and on the basis of which proposed to file
an appropriate application/submissions before the respondent CCI. On
11.08.2017 Cadila received certified true copies of the documents. In
these circumstances, on 08.09.2017 it filed the application seeking
review/recall of the order under Section 26(1) order. On 12.12.2017
the hearing of the matter was rescheduled by the CCI to
16-17.01.2018. On 08.01.2018, Cadila moved an application before
CCI under Section 36 (2) read with Section 41 (2) of the Act and the
CCI General Regulations, 2009 seeking cross examination of Nayan
Raval Dayabhai Patel (both partners of RMA) and Jashvant P Patel,
President of the Federation. On 08.01.2018 Cadila filed a common
reply to the investigation report submitted by the DG to the CCI
complying with this direction. On 16.01.2018 Cadila appeared before
CCI and made oral submissions with respect to its review/recall
application and the application seeking cross examination. 11. Under cover of letter dated 08.02.2018, Cadila received CCI's
orders dated 16-17.01.2018 rejecting its applications for review/recall
and rejection of the application seeking cross examination. Cadila
approached this court, under Article 226 of the Constitution. Its writ
petition alleged that without a separate order under Section 26 (1) of LPA No.160/2018 Page 6 of 63 the Act, authorizing investigation against it, the DG could not have
proceeded against it on the strength of a previous order which was not
based on any material or allegation with respect to complicity of
Cadila; consequently the investigation and report against it was a
nullity. 12. Cadila's position was that since the issue went into the root of
its jurisdiction, CCI was bound to review its order, in the light of this
court's ruling in Google Inc v Competition Commission of India 2015
(150) DRJ 192. Since it virtually abdicated its duty to review the
material collected by DG, and review its order, the CCI's order had to
be interfered with. It was also argued that the CCI further erred
inasmuch as it ignored the submission that RMA and its partners'
complaints were premised on blatant falsehoods; besides, having
benefitted from the supply of the contracted pharmaceuticals, they had
no locus to complain that Cadila was indulging in any anti-
competitive practice. As such the information and complaints were
mala fides. Any proceeding, based on false premises and allegations,
could be closed or terminated at any time and the CCI, in refusing to
do so, fell into grave error. 13. The third ground argued by Cadila was that the CCI could not
have invoked Section 48 against its officers, at the preliminary stage.
It was alleged that the initiation and continuance of proceedings under
Section 48 against its officers and executives was inconsistent with the
intent of the statue and binding orders regarding the same laid down
by the Competition Appellate Tribunal ("COMPAT"). The LPA No.160/2018 Page 7 of 63 investigation and proceeding against officers and employees of an
enterprise and the fixing of their liability despite the inconclusiveness
of the enterprise's liability was contrary to the letter and spirit of Section 48 of the Competition Act. It was urged that in the present
case, no affirmative finding against Cadila existed. Absent such
finding no proceeding could be initiated against Cadila's officers,
partners and executives. In terms of the settled rules of interpretation,
a provision enacting an offence or imposing a penalty is to be strictly
construed. It was argued that the COMPAT in numerous cases
unequivocally held that in the absence of a determination by CCI
about the contravention of the Act by the company proceedings
against officers or executives of such a company cannot be initiated.
All the grounds urged by Cadila were rejected by the learned single
judge, who dismissed its writ petition. Cadila has therefore appealed
to this court. Contention of parties 14. Cadila's learned senior counsel Mr. Krishnan Venugopal argued
that the order by CCI regarding prima facie satisfaction under Section
26(1) is unsustainable and not in accordance with the provisions of the Competition Act and the various decisions of the Supreme Court and
this Court. The exercise of excessive jurisdiction by the DG vitiates
the entire proceedings. Given that CCI rejected the application for
'review/ recall', those issues have to be adjudicated by this Court (and
not the CCI or the Appellate Court). Drawing heavily from
observations of the Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care Ltd v
Competition Commission of India 2017 (8) SCC 47, it was argued that LPA No.160/2018 Page 8 of 63 there is sufficient basis in that decision to say that whereas an initial
order covering a few issues relating to anti-competitive practices of a
particular period against one party can lead to valid investigation into
similar, later actions against the same authority, there is no legal
sanction for investigation into acts or omissions of another party, by
the DG, in the absence of express authorization regarding its or their
role, by the CCI, in a separate and subsequent prima facie order under
Section 26 (1). Learned senior counsel highlighted that the danger of
permitting CCI and the DG to proceed without such express sanction
is that it would amount to an open warrant, to carry out roving
inquiries against unrelated parties, based on entirely untruthful and
baseless allegations. He highlighted that the initial prima facie order is
premised on assessment of a certain preliminary standard of proof
regarding the materials discernable at that stage; however the same
yardstick would not be applied if the DG is authorized to carry out
investigation into the conduct of other parties. Learned counsel relied
on Grasim Industries Ltd v Competition Commission of India 206
(214) DLT 42, where it was held that without an order by the CCI into
the matter with respect to a particular party, it is not competent for the
DG to investigate into allegations. Counsel further argued that
permitting the DG to proceed further in the absence of any material,
which is overseen by the CCI would be to permit to it a roving
inquiry, which can be interdicted by the courts in judicial review. 15. It is argued that questions of jurisdiction or those issues that go
to the root of jurisdiction and exercise of power where CCI acts
beyond the provisions of the Competition Act cannot be decided by LPA No.160/2018 Page 9 of 63 the CCI at the time of final arguments or later by the appellate
tribunal. It is submitted that the same has to be looked into by this
Court. It is argued that CCI is required under the law to form a prima
facie opinion on each allegation in the information. The CCI cannot
abdicate that function and pass an open-ended order under Section
26(1) without forming any opinion on the allegations as contained in
the information. It is argued that the manner in which the order under
Section 26(1) is phrased by the CCI, i.e. by not including
pharmaceutical companies as proper opposite parties, the commission
tried to circumvent the Google order (as arguably parties may not have
any right for review/ recall). 16. It is contended that basic unsustainability and formation of the
order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act can only be argued
before this Court and not before CCI (at the time of final hearing) or
Appellate Court (even at a later stage). The DG's notice dated
19.01.2016 (received on 27.01.2016) - to supply information is
vitiated. It is also clarified that CCI, by its order had not formed a
prima facie opinion (and consequently not passed a prima facie order
under 26(1) of the Competition Act ) against Cadila. Thus, DG's action
in proceeding to investigate and go beyond the order under Section
26(1) of the Competition Act, if accepted by the CCI (as a
routine/correct practice), would be foreclosed before CCI during the
final arguments. 17. Emphasizing that the impugned orders of the CCI amount to
negating this court's judgment in Google which authorized a
substantive right to seek 'review/ recall', counsel submitted that unless LPA No.160/2018 Page 10 of 63 it is interfered with, Cadila would be seriously prejudiced. It is
submitted that the said judgment confers valuable rights on a party
arrayed as subject to investigation and proceedings under the Act and
entitles it to approach the CCI to take a "second look" and recall its
order under Section 26 (1) if needed, in the following circumstances: It is submitted that the aggrieved party can approach this court
for 'review/recall' of order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act,
if any of the said parameters are met. In the present case more than
two parameters are established; but rejected by the CCI. Learned
counsel relied on the judgment in T.K. Musaliar v Venkatachalam
AIR 1956 SC 246. Underlining that the DG initiated investigations
into its conduct, Cadila argues that the order violates the mandate of
the Competition Act and Sections 41 (2) and 36 (2). In such event, the
essential jurisdiction of the body is without authority of law, which
renders fatal its entire proceeding: counsel cited Coal India v Ananta
Saha 2011 (5) SCC 142; V.D. Roy v State of Kerala 2000 (8) SCC 590
and of the South African Supreme Court, reported as Woodlands LPA No.160/2018 Page 11 of 63 Dairy v Milkwood Dairy [2010] ZASCA 104, to say that proceeding
without the primary jurisdictional facts, strikes at the root of a
competition commission's authority, which is liable to be quashed. Reliance is also placed on Kothamasu Kanakarathnamma v State of
Andhra Pradesh AIR 1965 SC 304. Further, reliance is placed on
Rohtas Industries v SD Agarwal 1969 ( 1) SCC 325 and Barium
Chemicals v Company Law Board AIR 1967 SC 295, to urge that the
purpose underlying exercise of jurisdiction in any proceeding, should
be to further statutory objectives and not to result in abuse of law. In
the present case, since CCI's jurisdiction was invoked in a mala fide
manner, the order made by the commission was liable to be reviewed;
CCI's refusal to do so, vitiated the entire proceeding 18. It is submitted that the Competition Appellate Tribunal
(COMPAT) has consistently taken a view that if the fraud/malafide
was brought to the notice of the CCI prior to passing of order under
Section 26(1), then it would not have even passed the said prima facie
order. Further, the COMPAT held that political rivalry/ business fights
cannot be overlooked in competition law cases. The COMPAT also
held that in the cases relating to chemist and druggists' associations
and pharma companies (for allegations relating to non-supply of
medicines), there cannot be a violation of Section 3(1) of the
Competition Act. 19. It is submitted that Nayan Raval and Dayabhai Patel are or were
one-time partners in RA, ADC and RMA. It was submitted that the
informant failed to disclose the said facts to the CCI and that they
have filed information (with same allegations) in Case Nos.97/2013 LPA No.160/2018 Page 12 of 63 and 72/2014 with the CCI earlier. It is clear that these individuals
(Nayan Raval and Dahyabhai Patel) are using different entities to
indulge in frivolous, vexatious litigation against the same set of
parties. 20. Learned senior counsel argued that the CCI wholly disregarded
that these individuals are abusing the process of law and using the
form of the partnership firm to play around with its jurisdiction
without any regard to truth and fair play. In this context, it is urged
that suppression of material facts amounts to fraud on the CCI.
Elaborating on this aspect, it was argued that RMA's mala fides was
amplified by the fact that it misled the CCI. It obtained a demand draft
for filing information with the CCI on the same date when it placed an
order for medicines with Cadila. RMA did not disclose to CCI that it
made balance payment on 24.09.2015 through RTGS and that Cadila
had already supplied the drugs (between 26-29.09.2015). Counsel
relied on decisions of COMPACT in Lupin Limited & Others v.
Competition Commission of India & Ors (COMPAT), (Appeal No. 40
of 2016, decided on 7th December, 2016) and Schott Glass India Pvt.
Ltd. v. Competition Commission of India &Anr. (COMPAT), (A.No.
91 of 2012, dated 02.04.2014) and urged that complaints or
information provided by business rivalry or fraud can vitiate the
proceedings before CCI. 21. It is submitted that the order under Section 26(1), as regards
Cadila was induced by fraud. It is a settled principle laid down by the
Supreme Court that suppression of material facts/documents amounts
to fraud. Therefore, urged senior counsel, if the initial action is not in LPA No.160/2018 Page 13 of 63 consonance with law, subsequent proceedings would not sanctify it.
Thus, once the basis of a proceeding is gone (as in this case), all
consequential acts, actions, orders would fail, automatically.
Therefore, all the consequential actions arising from the information
vis-à-vis Cadila including the DG's report, are vitiated by fraud. It is
submitted that in terms of the Google judgment, this Court should
exercise its power to recall/review the order under Section 26(1) of the
Competition Act- insofar as it extends to Cadila. 22. Mr. Venugopal urged that there is a settled principle in
competition law that for applicability of Section 3(1) of the
Competition Act the alleged 'agreement' should be between
competitors (existing or potential) or between enterprises upstream or
downstream in any production chain. In the present case, Federation of
Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists Association and Petitioners are
not engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or services, which is
an essential condition for applicability of Section 3(3) of the
Competition Act. Furthermore, associations/Federation and Cadila is
also not placed at different stages of the production chain in different
markets, which is an essential condition for applicability of Section
3(4) of the Competition Act. Therefore, even if the alleged agreement
between Association/ Federation and Cadila is assumed to exist
(which it does not), the same would neither fall within Section 3(3) or Section 3(4) of the Competition Act (and not constitute a
contravention of the Competition Act ). 23. It was next argued by learned senior counsel that it is clear that
the individuals (Nayan Raval and Dayabhai Patel) were using different LPA No.160/2018 Page 14 of 63 entities to indulge in frivolous, vexatious litigation against the same
set of parties (pharmaceutical companies and associations of chemists
and druggists in Gujarat). The present case satisfies all the ingredients
of res judicata as revealed by the following: Therefore, urged counsel, in accordance with the above
principles, the proceedings in the present case would lead to CCI LPA No.160/2018 Page 15 of 63 dealing with successive information (by essentially the same
informant) filed for the same conduct against the same enterprise by a
separate order. 24. Senior counsel argued that the initiation and continuance of the
proceedings under Section 48 against Cadila's officers and executives
are inconsistent with the intent of the statute and binding orders
regarding the same laid down by the COMPAT. This approach
followed by CCI whereby the officers and executives of an enterprise
are investigated and their liabilities fixed. Despite the liability of the
enterprise itself being undecided is contrary to the letter and spirit of Section 48 of the Competition Act to proceed against officers and
employees of Cadila. In the present case, no affirmative finding
against Cadila exists at the present stage. Unless such a finding is
rendered, no proceeding can be initiated against its officers, partners
and executives. Urging that in terms of settled rules of interpretation, a
provision enacting an offence or imposing a penalty is to be strictly
construed. COMPAT in numerous cases has unequivocally held that
in the absence of a determination by the CCI that the company has
committed contravention of any of the provisions of the Competition
Act or any rule, regulation etc., proceedings against officers or
executives of such a company cannot be initiated. It is stated that the
COMPAT's conclusion is also supported by the fact that Section 48(1)
as well as Section 48(2) of the Competition Act uses the term
'contravention' and not 'alleged contravention' which makes it clear
that Section 48 can be only invoked after it is proved that a
contravention has been committed by a company. 25. Counsel submitted that CCI also arbitrarily declined Cadila's
plea for opportunity of cross-examination of certain witnesses (Mr.
Nayan Raval, Mr.Dayabhai Patel and Mr.Jasvant Patel) who gave oral
testimony against it. The CCI's reasoning is inconsistent with the
recognized purpose of cross-examination and its importance as
acknowledged by the Supreme Court, this court and the COMPAT
(whose directions are binding on CCI). In this context, it is highlighted
that it is a settled principle that any subordinate court is required to
follow the law as laid-down by the superior court, and not following
the law as settled by the superior court amounts to judicial
impropriety. The same has also been decided by Supreme Court in the Competition Commission of India v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. 2010
(10) SCC 744. 26. Mr. Samar Bansal, counsel for CCI argues that the impugned
judgment is sound and does not call for interference. Opposing
Cadila's pleas that CCI should have first formed a prima facie opinion
against it under Section 26(1) as a precursor for directing the DG to
investigate the parties including it and that CCI could not have
abdicated that said power to the DG and lastly, as far as the matters
which goes to the root of CCI's jurisdiction and acts beyond the
provisions of the Competition Act need to be decided by this Court are
concerned, counsel stated that such submissions are contrary to the
judgment of the Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care Limited v.
Competition Commission of India & Anr. (2017) 8 SCC 47. It was
argued that the Supreme Court dealt with an identical argument and
rejected it. It was stated that the court referred to the judgment of LPA No.160/2018 Page 17 of 63 COMPAT (Appellate Tribunal), which was in appeal before the
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, Mr.Bansal submitted, observed
that if the arguments of the appellants there (Excel Cropcare), were
accepted, it would render the entire purpose of investigation nugatory.
It was argued that CCI, by issuing a general direction to the DG to
investigate the conduct of such other parties, who may have indulged
in the said contravention, had authorized the DG to carry out
investigation against all of them, including Cadila as well. 27. Counsel urged that while carrying out the investigation, if the
facts are revealed and bring to light information about concerns and
organizations or individuals who enter into agreements or
arrangements, prohibited by Section 3 of the Act, the DG acts within
his power to include them in the report that he may furnish to the CCI. 28. CCI's counsel submitted that reliance placed on the judgment in Google Inc. (supra), by Cadila is incorrect as the ratio of that
judgment is inapplicable to the facts of this case. It was emphasized
that - in that case , the appellant i.e. Google Inc. had approached this
Court during the investigation and not after a report was submitted by
the DG. According to him, it was under those circumstances, this
Court had held that CCI had the jurisdiction to review/recall without
entering into any factual controversy. According to him, the Court
should not interfere with the CCI's order dated 17.11.2015, or the
subsequent orders and relegate Cadila to CCI, to enable it to argue that
the report submitted by the DG both on facts/law was defective or
illegal. 29. Mr. Bansal states that Cadila submitted to the jurisdiction of the
DG, pointing out that on 17.11.2015 CCI made the prima facie order
under Section 26(1); on 19.01.2016 the DG notice was issued to
Cadila under Section 36(2) read with Section 41(2) of the Competition
Act. The second notice was issued to Cadila by the DG on 25 April
2016. It was submitted that on 05.5.2016, DG issued summons under
Section 36(2) read with Section 41(2) of the Competition Act for
personal appearance to (1) Mr.Suryakant Dwivedi,
Dy.GM-Distribution of Zydus Cadila (2) Mr. Dilesh Gajjar, Manager
(Warehouse), Rimi. It was stated that on 26.05.2016, Dilesh Gajjar,
(employee of Rimi) deposed before the DG. On 6.6.2016
Mr.Suryakant Dwivedi (Manager OP-30/Cadila) was deposed by the
DG. Mr.Bansal submitted that on 08.08.2017, first hearing took place
before the CCI. Cadila was granted time to file reply to DG's report
(by 08.09.2017). On the next date, i.e. 08.09.2017 Cadila filed its
application for review/recall of order under section 26(1). The CCI
under these circumstances, by its order of 12.12.2017, directed that the
review/recall application shall be taken up at the time of final
arguments. On 08.01.2018 Cadila filed its reply to the DG's report
along with application for cross examination. Submissions were made
on 16.01.2018 on the review/recall application as well as application
for cross examination. It is emphasized that at no time, did Cadila
challenge DG's jurisdiction to carry on investigation on the basis of
the CCI's order. 30. CCI further argues, through its counsel, that the plea with
respect to mala fides of the informant Cadila's argument that there LPA No.160/2018 Page 19 of 63 was no violation of Section 3(1) of the Act, on res judicata; and that
arguments under Section 48 of the Competition Act could be made
before the CCI as it had not rendered any findings on any of the
factual submissions can made before it while arguing both the
applications. The CCI has granted liberty to Cadila to argue these
before it during arguments. Similarly, he stated, even Cadila's plea
regarding denial of cross examination is not tenable in the facts of this
case. It is argued that Cadila never requested for cross examination of
the witnesses till 08.01.2018. Consequently, CCI had no occasion to
grant the request. Further, CCI's counsel highlighted that those
individuals whose cross examination was sought by Cadila are
instances whose affidavits were not relied upon by the DG during
investigation to form an opinion against the Cadila in his report. Mr.
Bansal submitted that Cadila can yet argue the relevance of cross
examination and also the effect of denial of cross examination before
the Commission. In sum, CCI's submission is that Cadila's right to
agitate all the grounds except on Section 26(1) are available before the
Commission and this court should desist from deciding these issues to
interdict the CCI's proceedings. The CCI is exercising its jurisdiction
under a defined parameters in terms of the provisions of the Competition Act . Points of Controversy 1) Whether the DG's investigation in the absence of a specific order
 under Section 26(1) by CCI having formed a prima facie opinion,
 is vitiated; 2) Is the impugned judgment correct in upholding as sound CCI's
 finding rejecting the recall application, (based on grounds of fraud,
 res judicata and/or no cause of action). 3) Whether there was denial of principles of natural justice in the
 rejection of Cadila's request for cross examination; 4) Whether DG could have issued notice to Cadila's officials under
 Section 48 5)
Analysis and Findings 31. The relevant provisions of the Competition Act and Regulations
framed there under read as follows: (1) The Commission shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5
 of1908), but shall be guided by the principles of natural
 justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act and
 of any rules made by the Central Government, the
 Commission shall have powers to regulate its own
 procedure including the places at which they shall have
 their sittings, duration of oral hearings when granted,
 and times of its inquiry. (2) The Commission shall have, for the purposes of
 discharging its functions under this Act, the same powers
 as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908 (5 of1908), while trying a suit/in respect
 of the following matters, namely:- Explanation.-- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that the Commission shall not, while rectifying
 any mistake apparent from record, amend substantive
 part of its order passed under the provisions of this Act. ************** ************** Section 41 - Director-General to investigate
 contraventions LPA No.160/2018 Page 25 of 63 (1) The Director General shall, when so directed by the
 Commission, assist the Commission in investigating into
 any contravention of the provisions of this Act or any
 rules or regulations made thereunder. (2) The Director General shall have all the powers as are
 conferred upon the Commission under sub-section (2) of
 section 36. (3) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (2), sections 240 and 240A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
 1956), so far as may be, shall apply to an investigation
 made by the Director General or any other person
 investigating under his authority, as they apply to an
 inspector appointed under that Act. Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, (a) the words "the Central Government" under section
 240 of the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956) shall be
 construed as "the Commission"; (b) the word "Magistrate" under section 240A of the
 Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956) shall be construed as
 "the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi‖

 The powers of the CCI and DG, which are co-extensive, with
respect to matters that are the subject matter of investigation, are spelt
out in Regulation 41 of the Competition Commission of India
(General) Regulations, 2009 ("the 2009 regulations"), which reads as
follows: may be applicable for the purpose of inquiry or
 investigation, by the Commission or the Director
 General, as the case may be. (4) The Commission or the Director General, as the case
 may be, may call for the parties to lead evidence by way
 of affidavit or lead oral evidence in the matter. (5) If the Commission or the Director General, as the
 case may be, directs evidence by a party to be led by way
 of oral submission, the Commission or the Director
 General, as the case may be, if considered necessary or
 expedient, grant an opportunity to the other party or
 parties, as the case may be, to cross examine the person
 giving the evidence. (6) The Commission or the Director General, as the case
 may be, may, if considered necessary or expedient, direct
 that the evidence of any of the parties to be recorded by
 an officer or person designated for the said purpose. (7) The Commission may direct the parties to file written
 note of arguments or submissions in the matter.‖ 32. The court accepts that jurisdictional issues can be the subject
matter of judicial review. The dispute here, however, is whether CCI -
and later, the single judge - erred in the appreciation of any fact or
provision of law, with respect to the exercise of jurisdiction in
proceeding with the inquiry, through the DG, in the overall context of
the case, where the earlier general complaint did not specifically
pinpoint any behaviour on Cadila's part. 33. A plain reading of Section 26(1) shows that at the opinion
formation stage regarding existence of a prima facie case needing
investigation, CCI should consider the contents of inter alia,
information supplied under Section 19(1)(a) and the documents, if
any, received with the reference or information. This is a sine qua non
for a direction to the DG to investigate into the matter. Consequently
while exercising power under Section 26(1), CCI cannot adjudicate
upon the merits and de-merits of the allegations in the information. If LPA No.160/2018 Page 30 of 63 after examining the contents of the reference or information, the
Commission finds that the material produced along with it is not
sufficient for forming an opinion about the existence or otherwise of a
prima facie case or it wants some clarification on any particular aspect
of the matter/issue, it seeks a preliminary conference and invites the
complainant/information or other person as is considered necessary for
the preliminary conference (Regulation 17 of the 2009 regulations).
Thereafter, CCI can pass an order under Section 26(1) briefly stating
the reasons for forming an opinion regarding existence of a prima
facie case warranting DG's investigation. 34. In this case, the complaints were Case No.97/2103, Case No.
68/2015, Case No.68/2014, Case No.71/2014 and Case No.72/2014.
The first order under Section 26 (1) was issued on 28.02.2014 in Case
No.97/13 (by RA). This resulted in an order holding the respondents
guilty of abuse of dominant power, by order dated 04.01.2018. The
complainant in this case was Nayan Raval - as ex-partner of RA.
A common prima facie order was made for Case Nos.66/14, 71/14 and
72/2014, on 29 December, 2014 (the complainants here were RMA,
ADB, Stockwell Pharma and AMS). Nayan Raval signed on behalf of
RMA, Dayabhai Patel signed for ADB; Nayan Raval made a
statement in the course of proceedings; Stockwell Pharma's complaint
was signed by Pankaj Shethna and Yogesh Patel signed the complaint
for AMA. Interestingly by order (in RMA's complaint, i.e. Case No.
68/2015) the CCI made the impugned order on 30.11.2015, which
inter alia, is as follows: charge of and responsible for the conduct of business of
 the contravening entity.‖ 35. It is essential now to view the objectives underlining
competition law in India; these were spelt out in the following manner
in Competition Commission of India vs. Steel Authority of India Ltd. &
Ors. 2010 (10) SCC 744 (hereafter ―SAIL‖): 36. In Grasim Industries (supra) a single judge had held that
investigation by the DG without an authorization in respect of a party
to be incompetent, observing as follows: 37. The next decision pertinent to this appeal is the one cited by
both parties, i.e. Excel Crop Care Ltd. (supra). ―35. The CCI had entrusted the task to DG after it
 received representation/complaint from the FCI vide its
 communication dated February 04, 2011. Argument of
 the Appellants is that since this communication did not
 mention about the 2011 tender of the FCI, which was in
 fact even floated after the aforesaid communication,
 there could not be any investigation in respect of this
 tender. It is more so when there was no specific direction
 in the CCI's order dated February 24, 2011 passed
 Under Section 26(1) of the Act and, therefore, the 2011
 tender could not be the subject matter of inquiry when it
 was not referred to in the communication of the FCI or LPA No.160/2018 Page 36 of 63 order of the CCI. The COMPAT has rejected this
 contention holding that Section 26(1) is wide enough to
 cover the investigation by the DG, with the following
 discussion: Everything would depend upon the language of the
 order passed by the CCI on the basis of
 information and the directions issued therein. If
 the language of the order of Section 26(1) is
 considered, it is broad enough. At this juncture, we LPA No.160/2018 Page 38 of 63 must refer to the letter written by Chairman and
 Managing Director of FCI, providing information
 to the CCI. The language of the letter is clear
 enough to show that the complaint was not in
 respect of a particular event or a particular
 tender. It was generally complained that
 Appellants had engaged themselves in carteling.
 The learned Counsel Shri Virmani as well as Shri
 Balaji Subramanian are undoubtedly correct in
 putting forth the argument that this information
 did not pertain to a particular tender, but it was
 generally complained that the Appellants had
 engaged in the anticompetitive behaviour. When
 we consider the language of the order passed by
 the CCI under Section 26(1) dated 23.04.2012 the
 things becomes all the more clear to us. The
 language of that order is clearly broad enough to
 hold, that the Director General was empowered
 and duty bound to look into all the facts till the
 investigation was completed. If in the course of
 investigation, it came to the light that the parties
 had boycotted the tender in 2011 with pre- concerted agreement, there was no question of the
 DG not going into it. We must view this on the
 background that when the information was led, the
 Commission had material only to form a prima
 facie view. The said prima-facie view could not
 restrict the Director General, if he was duty bound
 to carry out a comprehensive investigation in
 keeping with the direction by CCI. In fact the DG
 has also taken into 30 account the tenders by some
 other corporations floated in 2010 and 2011 and
 we have already held that the DG did nothing
 wrong in that. In our opinion, therefore, the
 argument fails and must be rejected.‖
 We entirely agree with the aforesaid view taken by the
 COMPAT. 36. If the contention of the Appellants is accepted, it
 would render the entire purpose of investigation
 nugatory. The entire purpose of such an investigation is
 to cover all necessary facts and evidence in order to see
 as to whether there are any anti-competitive practices
 adopted by the persons complained against. For this
 purpose, no doubt, the starting point of inquiry would be
 the allegations contained in the complaint. However,
 while carrying out this investigation, if other facts also
 get revealed and are brought to light, revealing that the
 'persons' or 'enterprises' had entered into an agreement
 that is prohibited by Section 3 which had appreciable
 adverse effect on the competition, the DG would be well
 within his powers to include those as well in his report.
 Even when the CCI forms prima facie opinion on receipt
 of a complaint which is recorded in the order passed
 Under Section 26(1) of the Act and directs the DG to
 conduct the investigation, at the said initial stage, it
 cannot foresee and predict whether any violation of the
 Act would be found upon investigation and what would
 be the nature of the violation revealed through
 investigation. If the investigation process is to be
 restricted in the manner projected by the Appellants, it
 would defeat the very purpose of the Act which is to
 prevent practices having appreciable adverse effect on
 the competition. We, therefore, reject this argument of
 the Appellants as well touching upon the jurisdiction of
 the DG.‖ 38. Cadila's argument, that in Excel Crop Care the issue was
inclusion of more than one instance or incident within the ambit of
investigation (given that the complaint was in respect of one tender
only) is distinguishable, is in this court's opinion, insubstantial and
needs to be rejected. Its reliance on Grasim Industries, is no longer
apt. At the stage when the CCI takes cognizance of information, based
on a complaint, and requires investigation, it does not necessarily have LPA No.160/2018 Page 40 of 63 complete information or facts relating to the pattern of behaviour that
infects the marketplace. Its only window is the information given to it.
Based on it, the DG is asked to look into the matter. During the course
of that inquiry, based on that solitary complaint or information, facts
leading to pervasive practises that amount to abuse of dominant
position on the part of one or more individuals or entities might
unfold. At this stage, the investigation is quasi inquisitorial, to the
extent that the report given is inconclusive of the rights of the parties;
however, to the extent that evidence is gathered, the material can be
final. Neither is the DG's power limited by a remand or restricted to
the matters that fall within the complaint and nothing else. Or else, the
Excel Crop Care would not have explained the DG's powers in broad
terms: (―if other facts also get revealed and are brought to light,
revealing that the 'persons' or 'enterprises' had entered into an
agreement that is prohibited by Section 3 which had appreciable
adverse effect on the competition, the DG would be well within his
powers to include those as well in his report....If the investigation
process is to be restricted in the manner projected by the Appellants, it
would defeat the very purpose of the Act which is to prevent practices
having appreciable adverse effect on the competition‖). The trigger
for assumption of jurisdiction of the CCI is receipt of complaint or
information, when the ―Commission is of the opinion that there exists
a prima facie case‖ exists (per Section 26 (1)). The succeeding order
is administrative (per SAIL); however that order should disclose
application of mind and should be reasoned (per SAIL). Upto this
stage, with that enunciation of law, no doubt arguably Cadila could LPA No.160/2018 Page 41 of 63 have said that absent a specific order as regards its role, by CCI, the
DG could not have inquired into its conduct. However, with Excel
Crop Care specifically dealing with the question of alleged "subject
matter" expansion (in the absence of any specific order under Section
26 (1)) and the Supreme Court clarifying that the subject matter
included not only the one alleged, but other allied and unenumerated
ones, involving others (i.e. third parties), the issue is no longer
untouched; Cadila, in the opinion of this court, is precluded from
stating that a specific order authorizing transactions by it, was a
necessary condition for DG's inquiry into its conduct. This court is
further reinforced in its conclusion in this regard by the express terms
of the statute: Section 26 (1) talks of action by CCI directing the DG
to inquire into "the matter". At this stage, there is no individual; the
scope of inquiry is the tendency of market behaviour, of the kind
frowned upon in Sections 3 and 4. The stage at which it CCI can call
upon parties to react is when it receives a report from DG stating there
is no material calling for action, it has to issue notice to the concerned
parties (i.e. the complainant) before it proceeds to close the case
(Sections 26 (5) and (6)). On the other hand, if the DG's report
recommends otherwise, it is obliged to proceed and investigate further
(Sections 26 (7) and (8)). Again Section 27 talks of different "parties"
[―enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of
persons‖- per Section 27 (a) ]. Likewise, the steps outlined in
Section 26 are amplified in the procedure mandated by Regulation 20 and 21 , which requires participation by "the parties" in the event a
report after DG's inquiry, which is likely to result in an adverse order, LPA No.160/2018 Page 42 of 63 under Sections 27-34 of the Act. Consequently Cadila's argument that
a specific order by CCI applying its mind into the role played by it
was essential before the DG could have proceeded with the inquiry, is
rejected. 39. The next question relating to a facet of the same issue is
whether given that an order requiring production of materials or co-
operate in the inquiry is of such a nature that some form of fair
procedure in the nature of hearing is necessary. Cadila's reliance on
Rohtas Industries and Barium Chemicals is, in the opinion of this
court, irrelevant given the facts of this case. Granted, administrative
orders should be reasoned; however, where they trigger investigative
processes that are not conclusive, having regard to the clear
enunciation in SAIL, that notice is inessential, accepting the argument,
that inquiry would harm the market or commercial reputation of a
concern, would be glossing over the law in SAIL. Moreover, the
Rohtas Industries related to the affairs of a company, which
implicated its internal management. Allowing inquiry, even an
innocuous one, without application of mind, is a different proposition
altogether from acting on the information of someone who alleges
either direct or indirect or tacit dominance in the market place in the
course of one's business. The latter is regulatory of the marketplace
rather than the core management of the concern; it is akin to
adjudicating a tax or commercial dispute, or a regulatory dispute. As
stated by Justice Brennan, natural justice in such instances should not
―unlock the gate which shuts the court out of review on the merits."
(in this case, preclude or chill the exercise of jurisdiction by the DG LPA No.160/2018 Page 43 of 63 into a potential abuse of dominant position of a commercial entity).
Therefore, this court finds no merit in the argument that the procedure
adopted by the DG in going ahead with the inquiry and investigating
into the market behaviour of Cadila in anyway affects it so
prejudicially as to tarnish its reputation. The CCI has not as yet
examined the investigation report in the light of Cadila's contentions;
all rights available to it, to argue on the merits are open. Point No 2: Rejection of the recall application 40. Cadila's grievances, articulated during the hearing of this
appeal, was that the single judge fell into error in upholding CCI's
argument that the application for recall in terms of Google Inc could
not be entertained and more importantly that its application disclosed
fraud on the part of the informants, as well as the fact that the issue
was hit by the doctrine of res judicata. 41. The Google decision was in the context of refusal by the CCI to
entertain an application for recall of the earlier Section 26 (1) order on
the ground of lack of power. The court held that such power exists: 20. Such a power has to be exercised on the well
 recognized parameters of the power of review/recall and
 without lengthy arguments and without the investigation
 already ordered being stalled indefinitely. In fact, it is up
 to the CCI to also upon being so called upon to
 recall/review its order under Section 26(1) of the Act to
 decide whether to, pending the said decision, stall the
 investigation or not, as observed hereinabove also. The
 jurisdiction of review/recall would be exercised only if
 without entering into any factual controversy, CCI finds
 no merit in the complaint/reference on which
 investigation had been ordered. The application for
 review/recall of the order under Section 26(1) of the Act
 is not to become the Section 26(8) stage of the Act. 21. We therefore answer the question framed
 hereinabove for adjudication in affirmative and hold that
 respondent No. 1 CCI has the power to recall/review the
 order under Section 26(1) of the Act but within the LPA No.160/2018 Page 45 of 63 parameters and subject to the restrictions discussed
 above.‖
 This court has misgivings about the correctness of the Google
decision, for the reason that the substantive review power which
existed with the CCI ( Section 37 ) earlier, was repealed. This repeal
was Parliamentary expression that such power was not admissible. A
cardinal rule of interpretation is that the power of review is expressly
granted. In Patel Narshi Thakershi & Ors v Shri Pradyuman Singhji
Arun Singhji AIR 1970 SC 1273 the Supreme Court held that:―It is
well settled that the power to review is not an inherent power. It must
be conferred by law either specifically or by necessary implication. No
provision in the Act was brought to our notice from which it could be
gathered that the Government had power to review its own
order.‖Honda Siel Power Products Ltd. Vs. Commissioner of Income
Tax, Delhi (2007) 12 SCC 596 likewise, is an authority for the
proposition that where a specific power to rectify exists, the tribunal
has no authority to review a previous order. It was observed that ―the
purpose behind enactment of Section 254 (2) is based on the
fundamental principle that no party appearing before the Tribunal, be
it an assessee or the Department, should suffer on account of any
mistake committed by the Tribunal. This fundamental principle has
nothing to do with the inherent powers of the Tribunal‖. The power
under Section 254 is to rectify (akin to Section 38 in the Competition
Act ). 42. The distinction between a tribunal (which has powers
circumscribed by statute) and a court (which has inherent powers) is LPA No.160/2018 Page 46 of 63 well known. Where a specific procedural provision (which enabled the
court to entertain and accept documents after the trial commenced)
was deleted; the Supreme Court held that such legislative interdict did
not affect the inherent powers. Sometimes, the court has adverted to
other provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure being manifestations
of the inherent power (Ref. Budhia Swain Vs. Gopinath Deb (1999) 4
SCC 396). Vinod Kumar (supra) cited in Google was a case where the
original power was exercised plainly and manifestly contrary to the
rules (an adverse confidential report of which review was sought after
over 9 years, was entertained by an officer incompetent to do so; the
Government set it at naught). That was a case of nullity of the original
order. Similarly, the cases cited in Google ( R.R.Verma v Union of
India 1980 ( 3) SCC 402 and S. Nagaraj v State of Karnataka 1993
(Supp 4) SCC 595) cannot be read divorced from their context. In RR
Verma the court had stated
 ―We do not think that the principle that the power to
 review must be conferred by statute either specifically or
 by necessary implication is applicable to decisions purely
 of an administrative nature. To extend the principle to
 pure administrative decisions would indeed lead to
 untoward and startling results.‖
 The court was then concerned with Rule 3 of the All India
Services (Conditions of Service Residuary matters) Rules, which
empowered the Government to by ―order, dispense with or relax the
requirements of that rule or regulation, as the case may be, to such
extent and subject to such exceptions and conditions, as it may
consider necessary for dealing with the case in a just and equitable LPA No.160/2018 Page 47 of 63 manner.‖ This meant necessarily that the authority was conferred with
wide discretion to relieve the rigors of extant rules, but not to exercise
the power whimsically: 43. It is pertinent to note that in Adalat Prasad v Rooplal Jindal 2004 (7) SCC 338, the Supreme Court had occasion to revisit the
correctness of its previous decision, which had held that a Magistrate
can recall an order issuing process, in a complaint case initiated for an
offence alleged under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,
1881, despite absence of a specific power of review. Despite the
consequence of a wrong order adversely dragging a party to criminal
proceedings, the court ruled that there was no remedy of recall by the
same court, i.e. the magistrate. The Court held: Therefore, we are of the opinion, that the view of this
 Court in Mathew's case (supra) that no specific provision
 is required for recalling an erroneous order, amounting
 to one without jurisdiction, does not lay down the correct
 law.‖ 44. In the Google decision, the court had relied on several other
decisions which dealt with pure administrative power, or power which
was statutory for which no specific power was conferred, to recall (or
review). In the latter category, the Supreme Court had consistently
ruled that Section 21 of the General Clauses Act 1897 applied. That
provision specifically states that where a statute does not enable the
recall of an order or notification, or bye law (note that all are
legislative or quasi legislative statutory powers) the power to recall
those exists, provided it is exercised in the same manner as in the case
of the exercise of original power. This power is quasi legislative; for
instance it was held in Kamla Prasad Khetan v Union of India [1957]
SCR 1052, this Court considered the scope of Section 21 of the
General Clause Act. At page 1068, the Court observed thus: 45. The decisions relied on in Google in the context of exercise of
power under Article 226 (of judicial review by the High Courts) or
under Section 482 (inherent power of the High Court) in the opinion
of this court again are inapt, because they talk of the power of High
Courts and not of the same tribunal or forum which is divested of the
power of substantive review or recall of its orders. 46. This court is of the opinion that though there are serious
concerns which should caution exercise of power by the CCI in terms
of the Google Inc, it cannot be termed as per incurium. It would be
sufficient to remember that these serious limitations exist with respect
to exercise of a substantive power of recall, which can be justifiably
used in rare circumstances where the fraud is egregious and does not
involve a detailed hearing or where the mistake is of the kind covered
by Section 38. The power of judicial review exists where the authority
or tribunal acts in excess of its power (illegality) or transgresses
procedural regulations, is unfair or tainted with mala fides. Therefore
this court holds that the impugned order which held that Google has
no application to the facts of this case because in Google the DG had
not filed any report; the investigation was ongoing when the petitioner
applied for recall and when this court was approached. Here, the recall
application was filed after the DG's report to CCI. The finding in the LPA No.160/2018 Page 51 of 63 impugned judgment therefore is unexceptionable; it was held by the
Single Judge that the - ―conclusion of this Court in Google (supra) has to be
 read/understood to mean a recall/review application can
 be filed during investigation and not after the submission
 of the report by the DG. This I say so once report is
 submitted, then an action/procedure under Section 26(5)
 or 26(8) gets triggered, taking the case out of the realm
 of 26(1) or 26(2) of the Act, [which was the position in Google (supra)]. The only remedy for the parties is to
 argue the report before the Commission and not on the
 order u/s. 26(1) as was sought to be done in the case in
 hand. The same is impermissible in law, inasmuch as
 procedure as contemplated/provided must be allowed to
 be gone through.‖ 47. The next question is whether CCI erred in holding that the
question of investigating into its conduct, was as a result of fraud or
misrepresentation by any party. The conduct of some complainants, in
approaching the CCI with complaint, without disclosing that the
alleged abusive behaviour of Cadila or its distributor, i.e. not
supplying the formulation, was in fact false, amounts to playing a
fraud on that tribunal, necessitating recall of the orders of DG which
were premised on a general prima facie order. The conclusions of the
CCI, which rejected the recall application (after noticing its previous
order, which had directed the DG to inquire into conduct of the
opposite parties as well as other parties) pertinently, is as follows: 48. This court notices that in the present case, Cadila filed a 110
page, 216 paragraph recall application which not only dealt with
complicated questions of law, but called for analysis of detailed facts.
Therefore, the rejection on the merits of Cadila's recall application is
not erroneous. 49. The last point on this issue is the question of res judicata. Here,
the court notices that Grasim Industries was a case where the court
had ruled that even though there might be an infirmity in the CCI's
approach regarding the initiation of proceedings, the material gathered
by DG can be treated as information. Therefore, that in a given case, a
decision is rendered may not be conclusive of the matter in entirety;
complaints and grievances regarding abuse of dominance have an
inherently anti-competitive effect, which pervade the marketplace and
tend to stifle competition or create barriers to a free trade in goods and
services. Conclusions of one or two specific complaints may not LPA No.160/2018 Page 55 of 63 always be determinative of an entity's behaviour in the market place;
they tend to cover a larger canvas, influencing the outcomes in terms
of price, access to articles goods and services, within the commercial
stream and their deleterious effects are felt by the general public.
Settlement or disposal of individual or some cases might not be
determinative of the matter which pertains to abuse of dominance, for
the reason that it affects the wider public, just as a crime does. It is
like saying that a builder or other service provider who indulges in
widespread malpractice that amounts to cheating investors or flat
buyers, which is exposed by one complaint, that results in a first
information report (FIR) and consequent investigation, that unearths
that several other consumers are like preys can be quashed on the
ground that the errant service provider settles with the
complainant/informant. In such event, the High Court would never
exercise its discretion to quash the proceeding emanating from the
FIR. Therefore, the CCI or an expert body should ordinarily not be
crippled or hamstrung in their efforts by application of technical rules
of procedure. Point No.3 50. The CCI rejected Cadila's application for permission to cross
examine three witnesses who had deposed before the DG. This
application was made on 08.01.2018. The relevant discussion in its
impugned order, is as follows: 51. Cadila's argument that its request was turned down without
adequate reasons, in this court's opinion is justified. Regulation 41(5) of the 2009 regulations provides as follows: This court is of the opinion that the discretion, which is
undoubtedly vested with the CCI to permit or refuse cross LPA No.160/2018 Page 57 of 63 examination of a witness, is to be exercised judiciously. The reason
for denial of the request for cross examination is that the justification
given by Cadila is not "satisfactory" and that the testimony of
witnesses who have deposed and whose cross examination is sought,
are not relied upon in the DG's report. This court is of the opinion that
such reasons are not germane; mere "dissatisfaction" does not imply
judicious exercise of discretion. As regards the reliance by the DG in
his report is concerned, the grounds of cross examination are
necessarily wider; it is avowedly to establish whether the witnesses
were credible and whether any part of their statements could be relied
on; furthermore they can be cross examined on relevant facts, which
are not necessarily confined to what they depose about. Therefore, it is
held that CCI erred in refusing to grant cross examination (to Cadila)
of the three witnesses who had deposed before the DG. Point No.4 52. Cadila's argument on this aspect is that without first recording
the complicity or otherwise of a company, its directors or
employees/officials cannot be issued notice for contravention of the
Act. In other words, according to Cadila, the CCI has to first record
that the company is guilty of an abusive act, after which it can proceed
against its director, etc. The relevant provision is as follows: (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
 (1), where a contravention of any of the provisions of this
 Act or of any rule, regulation, order made or direction
 issued thereunder has been committed by a company and
 it is proved that the contravention has taken place with
 the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any
 neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
 or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
 secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
 guilty of that contravention and shall be liable to be
 proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section,-- a) ―company‖ means a body corporate and includes a
 firm or other association of individuals; and b) ―director‖, in relation to a firm, means a partner in
 the firm.‖ 53. The question sought to be agitated was urged before another
single judge in Pran Mehra vs. Competition Commission of India and
Another (Writ Petitions No. 6258/ 2014, 6259/ 2014 and 6669/ 2014)
when the court held as follows: 54. Aneeta Hada set at rest the controversy whether in one
proceeding, against the company, its director ("person in-charge") can
also be prosecuted or proceeded against on the principle of vicarious
liability. Before Aneeta Hada, there existed a dichotomy of opinions -
on the one hand, in State of Madras vs. C.V. Parekh and Another (1970) 3 SCC 491 held that without prosecuting the company, the
director could not be prosecuted. Sheoratan Agarwal and Another vs.
State of Madhya Pradesh (1984) 4 SCC 352(on the other hand),
explained the decision in C.V. Parekh (supra) by a two judge bench of
the Court which held that the company alone or the person in-charge
of and responsible for the conduct of business of the company alone,
may be prosecuted for the acts of the company as there is no statutory
requirement that such person cannot be prosecuted unless the
company is also arraigned as an accused with him. In Aneeta Hada
(supra) it was held, inter alia, as follows: 55. In view of the above reasoning, it is held that the procedure
adopted by the DG, who investigated the complaint as a matter,
without the CCI recording its prima facie opinion against the
appellant/Cadila cannot be termed an illegality. Likewise, the rejection
of the recall application (by the CCI) does not call for interference. On
the third point, i.e. the issue of cross examination, this appeal has to
succeed; however on the last issue, i.e. notice and proceedings in a
composite manner against the directors and Cadila, cannot be termed
an illegality or irregularity; it was in accordance with law. 56. In view of the discussion, the appeal succeeds in part and is
allowed to the extent that CCI shall afford opportunity to cross
examine the three individuals named by Cadila in its application LPA No.160/2018 Page 62 of 63 (dated 08.01.2018) by issuing a notice to all concerned. On all other
aspects the appeal, i.e. as to rejection of the recall application and the
other points discussed above, has to fail and is dismissed. The appeal
is dismissed, but subject to the above directions. Dasti under signatures of Court Master to counsel for the
parties. S. RAVINDRA BHAT
 (JUDGE)

 A.K.CHAWLA
 (JUDGE)
SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 LPA No.160/2018 Page 63 of 63