The requisition filed by I.O. dated 31-8-
 2021 is allowed. The I.O. is permitted to seize
 the aforesaid amount of Rs.1,12,15,884/-,
 bearing account No.0009102000081360 of
 IDBI Bank, C.G. road, Gujrat branch belonging
 to Mahi Enterprise, by strictly complying
 provisions of Sec. 102 of Cr.P.C. Sd/- 01/09/2021
 I ACMM, Bengaluru." 10. Two applications are filed, one by the complainant and

another by M/s. Mahi Enterprises - the petitioner herein. The

application filed by the complainant under Sections 451 and 457 of

the Cr.P.C. seeking interim custody of the amount seized by the

Investigating Officer, reads as follows: No response from anybody. In fact it relevant to mention that,
the above said M/s. Sagar Enterprises has 'contravened to the
agreed terms between the Petitioner and it and in fact on
05-08-2021 an amount of Rs. 30,00,000/- and Rs.27,00,000/-
have been paid on two occasion, totally Rs. 57,00,000/-, On 10-
08-2021 an amount of Rs. 27,00,000/- and 30,00,000/- has
also paid. As such totally 1,14,00,000/-has been paid by the
Petitioner. In fact the said amount was for 40 liters, but on
opening the product sent by M/s. Sagar Enterprises, it is noticed
that, there is only 20 liters contrary to the agreed terms of 50%
advance. On questioning the same with M/s. Sagar Enterprises,
they told that, recently they have suffered loss due to short
payments so they have sent only the quantity equal to the price
paid. In fact same is contrary to the agreed terms. On
continuous approach, the M/s. Sagar Enterprises informed the
Petitioner that, they will make refund the said amount of
Rs.1,14,00,000/- shortly by 23-08-2021, but not refunded. As
such on trying to call them, again the phones are switched off,
but for the mail, they have replied that, they will refund the said
amount of Rs.1,14,00,000/- on 07-09-2021, but till date no
payment has been made. In view of the above said act of
cheating by M/s. Sagar Enterprises through online and thereby
cheated the Petitioner to the tune of Rs.1,14,00,000/- as
mentioned below. 4. It is submitted that, In fact, all the above said amount has
been transferred to the respective bank accounts shown above
as per the instructions and directions given by the M/s. Sagar
Enterprises. In fact, the Petitioner is having the bank statement
to show the above facts. In fact on 04-08-2021 at 01.34.43 p.m 19 p.m, M/s. Sagar Enterprises have sent an e-mail to the
petitioner herein by attaching the proforma invoice and also the
retails of the 3 bank accounts wherein the Petitioner has to
make the payment. Then the on same day at 03:24 another
mail has been sent to the Petitioner for making payment to the
bank accounts given by them. In fact the complainant has
already sent the amount of Rs. 57,00,000/- to the bank account
of the M/s. Sagar Enterprises only. Hence, the Petitioner herein
has specifically replied that, "As we would get invoice from
one entity, we want to transfer money to one bank
account only pertaining to that entity". Again on same
day, at 3:24, M/s. Sagar Enterprises has sent a mail by giving
two bank accounts belonging to M/s. Sagar Enterprises only.
Later also regarding business transactions and supply of fluid,
there were several e-mail communications have been taken
place. As such on 10-08-2021 at 03:40 p.m, the above said
M/s. Sagar Enterprises have sent an e-mail stating that, the
amount to be paid to DBS Bank Account of M/s. Sagar
Enterprises to the tune of Rs. 30,00,000/-, and IDBI Bank
account of MAHI ENTERPRISE to the tune of Rs. 27,00,000/-. It
is also mentioned in the said mail that, the payment instructions
to be strictly adhered. In other words, it is mentioned that,
"ADHERE STRICTLY TO PAYMENT INSTRUCTION". Hence in
view of the same, having no option in order to continue the
deal, the Petitioner herein has sent the amount to the said
account i.e., MAHI ENTERPRISE. 5. It is submitted that, in fact now by filing a memo, the
Investigating Officer has added the names of the accused
persons in the above case, i.e., A1) Sagar Enterprises, A2)
Ray Pilip A3) Mahi Enterprises. The above said M/s. Sagar
Enterprises has instructed the Petitioner to deposit the amount
to the above said MAHI ENTERPRISE, it is nothing but the
conspiracy between M/s. Sagar Enterprises and MAHI
ENTERPRISE. Hence the quantity of the amount deposited to a
particular account is immaterial in view of the fact that, the
proceeds of the crime has been distributed between the
accounts maintained by the above said M/s. Sagar Enterprises
and Mahi Enterprises. By considering the said aspects, the
Investigating officer has seized the said amount. Hence the
Petitioner herein is entitled to the release of the above said
amount in his favour. 6. It is submitted that, it is the specific case of the Petitioner
that, in view of the above said business transactions, the above
said M/s. Sagar Enterprises has committed cheating on the
Petitioner and thereby Petitioner has suffered severe loss. Later
during the investigation, the concerned investigating officer has
found that the amount concerned to the above offence is lying
in the bank account and as such, the investigating officer has
filed a requisition on 01.09.2021 before this Hon'ble Court
requesting and prayed to give permission to seize the amount
lying in the bank account of the accused. This Hon'ble Court
has considered the case on record and passed an order
on: 01.09.2021 itself permitting the concerned
investigating officer to seize the aforesaid amount of Rs,
1,12,15,884/- of IDBI Bank, C.G.Road, Gujarat Branch
belonging to Mahi Enterprises. 7. It is submitted that, after passing the order by this
Hon'ble Court, the concerned Investigating Officer has
seized the said amount and after seizing the said amount
he had filed one more requisition seeking permission to
deposit the seized amount to the account of this Hon'ble
Court i.e., C.M.M Court vide D.D. No.086305 in CRCD
along with PF No.14/21. Later, this Hon'ble Court was
pleased to hear the matter and after hearing this Hon'ble
Court was pleased to pass an order by permitting the
investigating officer to deposit the said D.D. amount in
CRCD and directed the office to accept the same. Now,
the above said amount of Rs.1,12,15,884/- is lying in the
account of this Hon'ble Court as stated supra. 8. It is submitted that, as stated supra, the concerned
investigating officer has seized the amount from the
accused company and said amount is belonging to the
Petitioner herein. The concerned investigating officer is
also mentioned in his report before this Hon'ble Court
that, the above said amount is pertaining to the
Petitioner herein i.e., transacted amount as stated in the
complaint. Hence, there is no legal embargo for this
Hon'ble Court to release the above said amount in favour
of the Petitioner herein. 9. It is submitted that, the above said M/s. Sagar
Enterprises has received the amount from the Petitioner 21 herein, to the account of itself and to the account of one
M/s Mahi Enterprises, who is also hand in glove with the
M/s. Sagar Enterprises. The instructions given by M/s.
Sagar Enterprises to the Petitioner herein, directing the
Petitioner to deposit the amount to the above account to
M/s Mahi Enterprises itself shows that, M/s. Sagar
Enterprises has received the above said amount of
Rs.1,14,00,000/- from the Petitioner herein through
M/s.Mahi Enterprises illegal and hence the said amount
may be released in favour of the Petitioner herein. 10. It is submitted that, the petitioner is very much in
need of the above said amount lying in the accounts of
the accused which amount actually belongs to the
petitioner. The above said amount is very much
necessary for the petitioner herein to do his day today
business transactions. It will not serve any useful
purpose if it is idle. 11. It is submitted that, the petitioner is the absolute
owner for an amount of Rs.1,12,15,884/- as stated supra
and petitioner is the complainant before the police
regarding cheating of the said amount by the accused
persons. In fact there is no any counter/ rival claim from
anybody regarding the above said amount and hence,
petitioner is entitled for the possession of the same.
Moreover there are no any other rival claims for the said
amount. 12. It is submitted that, the petitioner is ready to execute
the necessary Bond and undertakes to abide by all the
conditions that may be imposed by this Hon'ble court in
the event of allowing this application. Wherefore, the Petitioner in the above case most
respectfully prays that, this Hon'ble Court be pleased to
pass an interim order to release the amount of
Rs.1,12,15,884/- (Rupees One Crore Twelve lakhs Fifteen
Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty Four only) which is
subjected by the Petitioner police in the P.F. No.14/2021
in the above case, which is deposited by the investigating
officer to the account of this Hon'ble Court (CMM Court)
vide D.D. No.086305 in CRCD, as per the order passed by 22 this Hon'ble Court on 01.09.2021, in favour of the
 Petitioner herein, pending disposal of the above case to
 meet the justice and equity. Petitioner's bank Account details: Thereafter, the petitioner files an application seeking for a

direction for defreezement of the account and to afford access to 23 the account for performance of his business activities, which reads

as follows: The applicant is adutiful and law-abiding citizen engaged in
 his lawful business activities and duly complying with all
 applicable laws and also ensuring due compliance with all
 tax liabilities in respect of his business transactions. The
 copy of the Pan Card, the copy of the Aadhaar Card is
 produced herewith as Document No.2 & 3, respectively. 7. The applicant's business activities include supply of goods
 procured by him to his customers in Amdavad as well to his
 customers in other states. The applicant submits that there
 are no averments against the applicant in either the
 complainant's statement or the FIR for having involved with
 M/s Sagar Enterprises. Further, the Applicant has
 absolutely no connection or business transactions with the
 said M/s Sagar Enterprises. 8. For the purposes of his lawful business transactions, the
 applicant has been using and operating a current account
 with IDBI Bank, C G Road Branch, Amdavad, Gujarat
 bearing A/c No. 0009102000081360. 9. The applicant received a letter from his banker
 stating that there was a communication received by
 the applicant's bank from the Cyber Crime Police
 Station Bengaluru regarding registration of Crime
 No.413/2021 against the applicant and also direction
 of this Hon'ble Court i.e., I ACMM Court Bengaluru in
 the said proceedings directing freezing relation to
 transactions pertaining to M/s Sagar Enterprises.
 Aggrieved by the directions of this Hon'ble Court, the
 applicant is filing the present application. 10. The applicant submits that he has not involved in any
 fraudulent transaction with any of the accused in the
 present proceedings. The complainant police at the
 time of investigation have arrayed him as accused
 No.3 in the above case and proceeded to freeze the
 current account pertaining to the applicant i.e.,
 accused No.03 and seized the amount of
 Rs.1,12,15,884/- vide PF No.14/2021 which belongs
 to the accused No.3 11. The applicant submits that he is unaware of the
 business transaction held between the complainant
 and M/s Sagar Enterprises. The complainant police
 without freezing the Bank Account pertaining to M/s
 Sagar Enterprises has straight away proceeded to
 freeze the current account pertaining to the applicant
 and deposited the amount of Rs.1,12,15,884/- before
 this Hon'ble Court. 12. The applicant/accused No.3 submits that he has not
 illegally gained money by transferring an amount of
 Rs.1.17 crores from complainant. 13. The applicant/accused no.3 submits that he has not
 assured the complainant to supply any particular fluid nor
 directed the complainant to deposit the money in the name 26 of the applicant. Thereby he has not cheated the
 complainant in any manner or played any fraud. 14. The complaint does not disclose any involvement of the
 applicant with the accused M/s Sagar Enterprises or other
 parties who are arrayed as the accused. 15. The applicant submits that the complainant police
 without intimating the same to the applicant has filed
 an application and obtained the order for freezing of
 the abovementioned bank account of the applicant,
 which has caused great hardship to the applicant;
 and the applicant also suffered huge losses as he has
 not been able to carry on his business without being
 able to access the funds in his bank account. 16. The applicant submits that the applicant undertakes to abide
 by any condition that may imposed by this Hon'ble court. 17. The applicant submits that the applicant undertakes to
 execute an indemnity bond for a sum of Rs.1,12,15,884/-
 to the satisfaction of this Hon'ble Court. 18. The applicant undertakes to give surety to the satisfaction of
 this Hon'ble court. 19. The applicant shall not tamper with the bank accounts
 belonging to the applicant and agrees to be bound by any
 future order of this Hon'ble Court in this regard. PRAYER

Wherefore the Applicant most respectfully prays that this
Hon'ble court be pleased to direct the complainant police
to de-freeze the account pertaining to the applicant and
release the amount of Rs.1,12,15,884/- as mentioned in
the current account bearing No.0009102000081360
which is held in IDBI Bank CG Road Branch, Amdavad,
Gujarat and permit the Applicant to carry on his business
activities, in the interest of justice and equity." The order of the concerned Court on the afore-quoted

application of the petitioner reads as follows: These two afore-quoted orders are called in question by the

petitioner before the revisional Court in Crl.R.P.Nos.34/2024 and

475/2022 respectively. The revisional Court by its orders dated

11.11.2024, rejects both the petitions filed by the petitioner and

affirmed the orders passed by the concerned Court. It directs

release of the amount in favour of the complainant with certain

conditions. The orders passed in Crl.P.Nos.34/2024 reads as

follows: 11. On perusal of the above aspect I find no malafide
intention on the part of the appellant for the delay in preferring
the appeal. However in order to meet the ends of justice it is
just and proper to condone the delay as sought for. However,
inconvenienced caused to the respondent may be met with by
imposing cost on the appellant. Under the circumstances the
situation of the appellant is worthy of protection under section 5 of Limitation Act, in view of her illness. Therefore point No.1 is
answered in the Affirmative. 12. POINT No.2: The petitioner has filed this revision
petition challenging the order dated 27/09/2021 in Crime
No.413/2013 (C.C.No.27075/2023) on the file of I ACMM,
Bengaluru passed on application under Section 451 and 457 of
Cr.P.C by the defacto complainant. 13. The counsel for respondent No.2 has vehemently
argued regarding the maintainability of the revision petition
before this Court. He has categorically stated that since the
application is made for interim custody of the amount before the
trial Court, the revision petition is not maintainable. Though I 31 find some force in the arguments advanced by the counsel for
respondent, it is to be noted that the counsel for petitioner has
relied upon a ruling reported in Criminal Revision Petition
100268/2023 in the case of Mustafa vs State of
Karnataka wherein the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka relying
upon various judgments that when the revision petition is
decided against the petitioner, he has got a right to prefer
revision petition against that order which cannot be construed
as an interlocutory order for the purpose of Section 397 of
Cr.P.C. In view of the finding in the above said judgment, it is to
be considered that the revision petition of this nature is not
maintainable. 14. The petitioner has challenged the order of the learned
Magistrate in allowing the application filed by the defacto
complainant under Section 451 and 457 of Cr.P.C for release of
the amount seized by the police to the tune of Rs.1,12,15,884/-
under PF No.14/21 of CEN Police Station. The contention of the
petitioner is that the defacto complainant transferred a sum of
Rs.27,00,000/- in favour of the petitioner company. The rest of
the amount seized by the police is the hard earned money of the
petitioner and therefore the learned Magistrate ought not to
have rejected the application filed by the petitioner. Though I
find some force in the arguments advanced by the counsel for
petitioner, it is to be noted that the available materials on
record indicates that the petitioner is none other than the
associate of the accused No.1 who entered into agreement with
the defacto complainant and to whom the amount was
transferred from the defacto complainant. 15. I have perused the materials placed before the
Court wherein it indicates that on the basis of the request
of Sagar Enterprises along with whom the defacto
complainant had transaction, the amount was transferred
to the account of Mahi Enterprises. The email
communication to that effect placed on record clearly
indicates the said fact. Apart from the above the
objections filed by the learned Public Prosecutor indicates
that the case came to be registered against the petitioner
by Bhopal Police in connection with similar offence.
Therefore, it has to be ascertained whether the petitioner
is jointly operating with Sagar Enterprises. This can be 32 ascertained only after a full fledged trial. At this stage the
available material on record indicates that the defacto
complainant has transferred the amount to the account of
Sagar Enterprises and Mahi Enterprises. Therefore the
fact that the amount which is deposited in the account of
the petitioner being proceeds of the crime cannot be
ruled out. Further same can be ascertained after a full
fledged trial. It is also not in dispute that the complainant
has lost a sum of Rs.1,17,00,000/- by transferring it to
the account of the petitioner and Sagar Enterprises. Since
there is every possibility that the amount deposited in the
account of the petitioner being proceeds of the crime, I
find no fault in the order of the learned Magistrate in
releasing the amount seized under PF No.14/2021 in
favour of the defacto complainant who actually lost the
amount due to the fraudulent act of the Sagar Enterprises
as well as the petitioner. 16. The learned counsel for the petitioner has
vehemently argued that before freeing of account and
deposits of the amount standing in his account before the
trial Court and prior to release of the same to the defacto
complainant, notice has not been issued to the petitioner. 17. I have gone through the materials produced by
the petitioner himself before the Court which indicates
that CEN Police, Central Division have issued notice under Section 41(a) of Cr.P.C to the proprietor of M/s. Mahi
Enterprises on 14/9/2021, 23/9/2021, 25/9/2021, but
the petitioner has not responded to the said notice issued
by the IO. When the petitioner has not responded to the
notice issued to him by the IO, he is estopped from taking
a plea that notice was not issued to him before release of
the amount in favour of the defacto complainant. In
support of his contention the counsel for petitioner has relied
upon a judgment passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka
in WP No.2865/2022 (GM-RES) in the case of Sri. Rahul
Chari and another vs State of Karnataka and others ,
wherein the order of the learned Magistrate in releasing the
amount to the complainant was set aside. 18. I have gone through the findings given in the said
judgment wherein it indicates that in the said case the petitioner
was not an accused. He was not aware of the registration of the
case. Without he being the accused his account was freezed and
amount was released in favour of the defacto complainant. 19. In the said case, the petitioner was only an account holder
and not an accused. Under the said circumstances the Hon'ble
High Court passed an order to issue notice to the account holder
and set aside the order of the learned Magistrate. The relevant
portion of the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court is extracted
below: But unlike the said case in this case the account does not belong
to third party, but account belong to the petitioner and the said
amount was ordered to be released in favour of the defacto
complainant. Under these circumstances, the ruling relied upon
by the learned counsel for petitioner is not applicable to the
facts and circumstances of this case. 20. The learned counsel for respondent No.2 has argued
to the effect that the order passed by the learned Magistrate is
proper. He has argued that the petitioner is none other than the
accused in this case. Under these circumstances the order
passed by the learned Magistrate is just and proper. In support
of his contention, the learned counsel for respondent No.2 has
relied upon judgment reported in ILR 1984 Karnataka 923 in
the case of Mangharam and sons vs. R.C.Morzaria and
another wherein it is held that : 21. The learned counsel for respondent has relied upon
the following rulings: The above citations relied by the counsel for respondent No.2 is
passed by other High Courts. They have got persuasive value.
But the counsel for the petitioner has relied upon a judgment of
the Hon'ble High Court in Criminal Revision Petition
No.100268/2023 dated 18/07/2023, wherein relying upon
various judgments Hon'ble High Court observed that the
revision petition against the order under Section 451 of Cr.P.C is
maintainable. Therefore, the rulings relied upon by the counsel
for respondent cannot be taken into consideration. 22. I have perused the orders passed by the learned
Magistrate wherein it is stated that the petitioner who is
accused No.3 has not appeared before the IO despite 35 issuance repeated notices nor he has put-forth any
documents to show his accumulation of aforesaid huge
amount by lawful means by producing amounts of his
firm. It further shows that he has not co-operated with
investigation and all these aspects raises doubt regarding
his claim towards aforesaid freezed amount. The learned
Magistrate also held that the online copy of GST status,
wherein the GST number of petitioner shown in email of
the complainant is shown as invalid. He has also
discussed regarding the involvement of the petitioner in
this case. Considering all the above aspects the learned
Magistrate has rightly rejected the application filed by the
petitioner and I find no ground to interfere with the
orders passed by the learned Magistrate. 23. On perusal of the materials placed before the
Court and orders passed by the learned Magistrate there
is nothing on record to come to a conclusion that
correctness, legality or proprietary of the findings
recorded by the trial Court suffers from all the infirmities.
It is to be noted that the amount was released to the
interim custody of the defacto complainant. There are all
the opportunities for the petitioner to put forward his
claim during the conclusion of the trial. Therefore I find
no reason to interfere with the finding of the learned trial
Court. Therefore, the point No.2 is answered in the
negative. 24. Point No.3:- In the result I proceed to pass the
following:- But unlike the said case in this case the account does not belong
to third party, but account belong to the petitioner and the said
amount was ordered to be released in favour of the defacto
complainant. Under these circumstances, the ruling relied upon
by the learned counsel for petitioner is not applicable to the
facts and circumstances of this case. 20. The learned counsel for respondent No.2 has argued
to the effect that the order passed by the learned Magistrate is
proper. He has argued that the petitioner is none other than the
accused in this case. Under these circumstances the order
passed by the learned Magistrate is just and proper. In support
of his contention, the learned counsel for respondent No.2 has
relied upon judgment reported in ILR 1984 Karnataka 923 in
the case of Mangharam and sons vs. R.C.Morzaria and
another wherein it is held that : 21. I have perused the orders passed by the learned
Magistrate wherein it is stated that the petitioner who is
accused No.3 has not appeared before the IO despite
issuance of repeated notices nor he has put-forth any
documents to show his accumulation of aforesaid huge
amount by lawful means by producing amounts of his
firm. It further shows that he has not co-operated with
investigation and all these aspects raises doubt regarding
his claim towards aforesaid freezed amount. The learned
Magistrate also held that the online copy of GST status,
wherein the GST number of petitioner shown in email of
the complainant is shown as invalid. He has also
discussed regarding the involvement of the petitioner in
this case. Considering all the above aspects the learned
Magistrate has rightly rejected the application filed by the
petitioner and I find no ground to interfere with the
orders passed by the learned Magistrate. 22. On perusal of the materials placed before the
Court and orders passed by the learned Magistrate there
is nothing on record to come to a conclusion that
correctness, legality or proprietary of the findings
recorded by the trial Court suffers from all the infirmities.
It is to be noted that the amount was released to the
interim custody of the defacto complainant. There are all
the opportunities for the petitioner to put forward his
claim during the conclusion of the trial. Therefore I find
no reason to interfere with the finding of the learned trial
Court. Therefore, the point No. 1 is answered in the
negative. 23. Point No.2:- In the result I proceed to pass the
following:- accused No.2 and in turn to accused No.1 and has rightly directed

to release the amount in favour of the complainant. 11. It is apposite to quote the judgment of the Apex Court in

the case of BIR SINGH v. MUKESH KUMAR1 , wherein it is held as

follows: ".... .... .... 15. The appellate court affirmed the aforesaid factual
 findings. The trial court and the appellate court arrived at the
 specific concurrent factual finding that the cheque had 1 (2019) 4 SCC 197 42 admittedly been signed by the respondent-accused. The trial
 court and the appellate court rejected the plea of the
 respondent-accused that the appellant complainant had
 misused a blank signed cheque made over by the respondent-
 accused to the appellant complainant for deposit of income
 tax, in view of the admission of the respondent-accused that
 taxes were paid in cash for which the appellant complainant
 used to take payment from the respondent in cash. 16. It is well settled that in exercise of revisional
 jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code, the High Court does not, in the
 absence of perversity, upset concurrent factual
 findings. It is not for the Revisional Court to re-analyse
 and re-interpret the evidence on record. 17. As held by this Court in Southern Sales &
 Services v. Sauermilch Design and Handels
 GmbH [Southern Sales & Services v. Sauermilch Design
 and Handels GmbH , (2008) 14 SCC 457] , it is a well-
 established principle of law that the Revisional Court
 will not interfere even if a wrong order is passed by a
 court having jurisdiction, in the absence of a
 jurisdictional error. The answer to the first question is
 therefore, in the negative." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court in terms of the afore-quoted judgment holds

that the High Courts are not the Revisional Courts to re-analyse and

re-interpret the evidence on record and upset the concurrent

findings rendered by the trial Courts. In that light, no fault can be

found at the hands of the concerned Courts, as the concerned

Courts have imposed certain conditions that in the event of the 43 complainant losing the case, he shall re-deposit the entire amount

before the concerned Court. In the light of such prediction and

respondent No.2 - complainant prima facie, who has lost the

aforesaid amount and more, with the ploy of accused Nos.1 and 2

and he proving that he is entitled to the said amount, there is no

warrant of interference with the orders which are rendered on

cogent reasons. 12. Finding no merit in these petitions, the petitions stand

rejected. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

nvj
CT:MJ/SS