1.	Heard Shri Manish Tiwary, learned Senior Counsel assisted by S/Shri Syed Imran Ibrahim and Azad Khan, learned counsel appearing for the applicant, Shri Manish Goyal, learned Additional Advocate General assisted by Shri Syed Ali Murtaza, learned A.G.A. appearing for the State. 2.	Present anticipatory bail application under Section 438 CrPC has been filed by the applicant seeking bail in Case Crime No. 353 of 2019 under Sections 420 and 406 IPC, P.S. Dadari, District Gautam Budh Nagar. 3.	Prosecution case, in nutshell, as unfolded by the informant Smt. Kitab Kaur in the First Information Report (in short 'FIR') is that she was the permanent resident of Hisar (Hariyana). Her husband late Dashrath Singh was Captain in Army. A well known lady 'Smt. Veena' wife of Narendra Singh and her brother Ishwar Dayal alongwith one Sanjay Bhati came to her house and told that Sanjay Bhati had launched a Company, namely, Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited' having its registered office at Gautam Budh Nagar, U.P.. It was also told that the said Company was registered under the Companies Act . They also stated that they have launched a scheme in the name of 'Bike Boat' and impressed her to invest amount in the said scheme. They also assured that on investment in the Company, certain EMI shall be returned monthly alongwith bonus. Informant also disclosed in the FIR that she paid / invested Rs. 34,15,500/- through bank transaction i.e. RTGS/Net on different dates in the account number given by the aforesaid persons in the year 2018. No amount, as assured by the aforesaid persons, was credited /returned in the account of informant, despite repeated request. Informant named nine persons in the FIR as accused including the present applicant as wife of Sanjay Bhati. Thereafter, one post dated cheque amounting to Rs. 50,10,056/- on 5.12.2019 signed by one Karan Pal Singh was sent at the address of the informant. It was also mentioned that the said cheque appears to be forged. Thus, prayer was made for legal action against accused persons as they committed fraud and cheating against the informant. 4.	At this stage it is note-worthy to mention that applicant is wife of Sanjay Bhati and she was Director in the said Company till February, 2017. She is also shareholder of 3.8% shares of the said Company. It also appears that looking to the lucrative proposal propagated by the Company more than two lakhs investors invested huge amount i.e. near about 3500 crores under the Bike Boat Scheme. A perusal of the affidavit annexed with the application shows that applicant herself has admitted that Company has paid Rupees Forty Crores as tax to the Government since its inception and has returned Rs. 1522 Crores to 1.5 lakhs investors. 5.	It was submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant that applicant is not named in the FIR. No active role has been assigned against her. She was non-executive Director of the Company in question, which was run by her husband and she resigned from the Company on 14.2.2017. She was Professor in Chaudhary Charan Singh University and was also Principal of different Colleges affiliated with the said University. Referring to FIR and other documents annexed with the bail application and also the documents furnished by the State it was also submitted that none of the ingredients of the offence under Sections 420 and 406 IPC are available in the present matter against the present applicant. At no point of time she did any act in the Company. It was also submitted that she is being prosecuted in this matter only on the basis that she is shareholder of 3.8% of the Company. It was further submitted that in similar nature case parties have settled the dispute in Delhi High Court and criminal proceeding has been quashed. In another matter in the State of Hariyana, parties have agreed to settle the dispute on the basis of compromise. It was further submitted that in this matter since the applicant has resigned the Company in the month of February, 2017 from the post of non-executive Director, no active role has been assigned against her in commission of present offence, vicarious liability cannot be fastened upon her only on the basis of shareholder of the Company in question. No prima facie case is made out against the applicant. It was further submitted that it is not necessary to the applicant to make out a special or exceptional case for anticipatory bail. If offences levelled in the matter are not attracted, anticipatory bail should be granted. Applicant will cooperate with the investigating agency and conditions imposed upon her by the Court shall be adhered to. In support of his submissions, learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance on the following case laws: 6.	On the other hand, learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State submitted that though applicant resigned from the post of Director of the Company in the month of February, 2017 yet she was having control over the day-to-day affairs of the Company. She was having share of 3.8% in the said Company and has access to the record, as is clear from the affidavit filed in support of the bail application itself. She is named in the FIR as wife of Sanjay Bhati. She has also threatened to the investors when they raised their grievances before her, as is clear from the statement of the witnesses recorded during investigation. More than 2.5 lakhs investors have invested money with the Company in which mostly are Ex-servicemen but the agreement entered into between them and the assurance given by the Company were not implemented/acted upon. EMI and other benefits including bonus were not returned to the investors, instead, Company invested the said money in different business i.e. real estate etc.. Since applicant is one of the shareholders of the Company, bike boat scheme was launched by the Company, huge money of the investors have been invested in other different schemes and applicant has access to record of the Company and threatened to the investors, it shall be presumed that she was in actual control over the day-to-day affairs of the Company. It is a scam of multi-thousand crores. It was also submitted that settlement arrived at between one of the investors and the Company at Delhi will not be a ground to grant anticipatory bail to the applicant. A reward of Rs. 50,000/- has been declared upon the applicant and also non-bailable warrant has been issued against her. She is not cooperating in investigation. It was also submitted that applicant has prayed for anticipatory bail in this crime only for the offence under Sections 420 and 406 IPC but now the case has been converted into the offence under Sections 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B and 201 IPC read with Section 58-A of the Indian Companies Act and sub- section 4-A of Section 58-B of the R.B.I. Act. It was further submitted that though financial business was being done by the Company in question yet no approval, as required under the R.B.I. Act, was obtained from the Reserve Bank of India. Present matter relates to economic offences and huge amount of investors have been embezzled. A prima facie case is made out against the applicant. It was further submitted that a number of FIRs have been lodged against the applicant, as is clear from Annexure-13 to the bail application. Interrogation is necessary in the matter. If applicant is granted anticipatory bail, there is every chance for destroying the evidence. She is also not cooperating to the Investigating Officer. At this juncture, learned Additional Advocate General has also referred to attachment order issued by the Directorate of Enforcement and also the various other documents / papers. Lastly, in support of his case, he has also placed reliance on the following case laws: 7.	I have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the entire record including the case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for the parties carefully. 8.	Before dealing with the submissions raised by the learned counsel for the parties, it is pertinent to quote relevant paragraphs of relevant cases relied upon by the learned counsel for the parties, which are as under: 9. In Sushila Aggarwal case (supra), the Apex Court held as under (paragraphs 52,85 and 92 of the said decision ): 52.2.	 Grant of an order under Section 438 (1) does not per se hamper investigation of an offence; Section 438 (1)(i) and (ii) enjoin that an accused/applicant should co-operate with investigation. Sibbia (supra) also stated that courts can fashion appropriate conditions governing bail, as well. One condition can be that if the police make out a case of likely recovery of objects or discovery of facts under Section 27 (of the Evidence Act, 1872 ), the accused may be taken into custody. Given that there is no formal method prescribed by Section 46 of the Code if recovery is made during a statement (to the police) and pursuant to the accused volunteering the fact, it would be a case of recovery during "deemed arrest" (Para 19 of Sibbia). 52.3.	The accused is not obliged to make out a special case for grant of anticipatory bail; reading an otherwise wide power would fetter the court's discretion. Whenever an application (for relief under Section 438 ) is moved, discretion has to be always exercised judiciously, and with caution, having regard to the facts of every case. (Para 21, Sibbia). 52.4.	While the power of granting anticipatory bail is not ordinary, at the same time, its use is not confined to exceptional cases (Para 22, Sibbia). 52.5.	It is not justified to require courts to only grant anticipatory bail in special cases made out by accused, since the power is extraordinary, or that several considerations - spelt out in Section 437 or other considerations, are to be kept in mind. (Para 24-25, Sibbia). 52.6.	Overgenerous introduction (or reading into) of constraints on the power to grant anticipatory bail would render it Constitutionally vulnerable. Since fair procedure is part of Article 21 , the court should not throw the provision (i.e. Section 438 ) open to challenge "by reading words in it which are not to be found therein." (Para 26). 52.7.	There is no "inexorable rule" that anticipatory bail cannot be granted unless the applicant is the target of mala fides. There are several relevant considerations to be factored in, by the court, while considering whether to grant or refuse anticipatory bail. Nature and seriousness of the proposed charges, the context of the events likely to lead to the making of the charges, a reasonable possibility of the accused's presence not being secured during trial; a reasonable apprehension that the witnesses might be tampered with, and "the larger interests of the public or the state" are some of the considerations. A person seeking relief (of anticipatory bail) continues to be a man presumed to be innocent. (Para 31, Sibbia). 52.8.	There can be no presumption that any class of accused- i.e. those accused of particular crimes, or those belonging to the poorer sections, are likely to abscond. (Para 32, Sibbia). 52.9.	Courts should exercise their discretion while considering applications for anticipatory bail (as they do in the case of bail). It would be unwise to divest or limit their discretion by prescribing "inflexible rules of general application.". (Para 33, Sibbia). 52.10.	The apprehension of an applicant, who seeks anticipatory bail (about his imminent or possible arrest) should be based on reasonable grounds, and rooted on objective facts or materials, capable of examination and evaluation, by the court, and not based on vague un-spelt apprehensions. (Para 35, Sibbia). 52.11.	The grounds for seeking anticipatory bail should be examined by the High Court or Court of Session, which should not leave the question for decision by the concerned Magistrate. (Para 36, Sibbia). 52.12.	Filing of FIR is not a condition precedent for exercising power under Section 438 ; it can be done on a showing of reasonable belief of imminent arrest (of the applicant). (Para 37, Sibbia). 52.13.	Anticipatory bail can be granted even after filing of an FIR- as long as the applicant is not arrested. However, after arrest, an application for anticipatory bail is not maintainable. (Para 38-39, Sibbia). 52.14.	A blanket order under Section 438 , directing the police to not arrest the applicant, "wherever arrested and for whatever offence" should not be issued. An order based on reasonable apprehension relating to specific facts (though not spelt out with exactness) can be made. A blanket order would seriously interfere with the duties of the police to enforce the law and prevent commission of offences in the future. (Para 40-41, Sibbia). 52.15.	The public prosecutor should be issued notice, upon considering an application under Section 438 ; an ad interim order can be made. The application "should be re-examined in the light of the respective contentions of the parties." The ad interim order too must conform to the requirements of the section and suitable conditions should be imposed on the applicant even at that stage. "Should the operation of an order passed under Section 438 (1) be limited in point of time? Not necessarily. The court may, if there are reasons for doing so, limit the operation of the order to a short period until after the filing of an FIR in respect of the matter covered by the order. The applicant may in such cases be directed to obtain an order of bail under Section 437 or 439 of the Code within a reasonably short period after the filing of the FIR as aforesaid. But this need not be followed as an invariable rule. The normal rule should be not to limit the operation of the order in relation to a period of time." (Para 42, Sibbia)." 85.8.	It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move the court concerned, which granted anticipatory bail, in the first instance, for a direction under Section 439(2) to arrest the accused, in the event of violation of any term, such as absconding, non-cooperating during investigation, evasion, intimidation or inducement to witnesses with a view to influence outcome of the investigation or trial, etc. The court - in this context is the court which grants anticipatory bail, in the first instance, according to prevailing authorities. 85.9.	The correctness of an order granting bail, can be considered by the appellate or superior court at the behest of the state or investigating agency, and set aside on the ground that the court granting it did not consider material facts or crucial circumstances. (See Prakash Kadam v. Ramprasad Vishwanath Gupta , Jai Prakash Singh and State of U.P. vs. Amarmani Tripathi). This does not amount to "cancellation" in terms of Section 439 (2), Cr. PC. 85.10.	The judgment in Mhetre (and other similar decisions) restrictive conditions cannot be imposed at all, at the time of granting anticipatory bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the decision in Salauddin and subsequent decisions (including K.L. Verma, Nirmal Jeet Kaur) which state that such restrictive conditions, or terms limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a period of time are hereby overruled." 92.9.	It is open to the police or the investigating agency to move the court concerned, which grants anticipatory bail, for a direction under Section 439 (2) to arrest the accused, in the event of violation of any term, such as absconding, non - cooperating during investigation, evasion, intimidation or inducement to witnesses with a view to influence outcome of the investigation or trial, etc.. 92.10.	The court referred to in para (9) above is the court which grants anticipatory bail, in the first instance, according to prevailing authorities. 92.11.	The correctness of an order granting bail, can be considered by the appellate or superior court at the behest of the state or investigating agency, and set aside on the ground that the court granting it did not consider material facts or crucial circumstances. (See Prakash Kadam v. Ramprasad Vishwanath Gupta ; Jai Prakash Singh (supra) State of U.P. v. Amarmani Tripathi). This does not amount to "cancellation" in terms of Section 439 (2), Cr. PC. 92.12.	The observations in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhere v. State of Maharashtra , (and other similar judgments) that no restrictive conditions at all can be imposed, while granting anticipatory bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the decision in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra and subsequent decisions (including K.L. Verma v. State , Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar , Adri Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal , Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. , HDFC Bank Limited v. J.J. Mannan ; Satpal Singh v. State of Punjab and Naresh Kumar Yadav v Ravindra Kumar ) which lay down such restrictive conditions, or terms limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a period of time are hereby overruled." 10. In N.K. Wahi case (supra), the Apex Court held as under (paragraphs 2,8 and 13 of the said decision ): 11. In Ajay Mitra case (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under (paragraph 18 of the said decision ): 12.	In this matter, as is evident from the record, applicant is named in the FIR as the wife of Sanjay Bhati. She herself has admitted that she was the Director of the Company in question till February, 2017. Thereafter, she resigned from the said post. She remains shareholder of 3.8% shares till today. It is also evident from the record that a huge money of the investors invested in Bike Boat Scheme of the Company has been diverted / reinvested in different other Schemes. It is also evident that EMI and other benefits, assured / agreed upon between the investors and the Company, have not been returned / paid to them. A number of criminal cases have been lodged against the applicant, as is clear from the rejection orders of the anticipatory bail annexed with the bail application as Annexure-13. It is also evident that at the time of diversion of the money in different other schemes invested by the investors against the agreement entered into between the investors and the Company, applicant was also having share of 3.8% in the Company. Affidavit filed in support of the anticipatory bail application also reveals that she has access to the record of the Company, meaning thereby she was having control over the day-to-day affairs of the Company. Non-bailable warrant has also been issued against her. A reward of Rs. 50,000/-is also against her, as applicant is not cooperating the investigating agency. It is true that there is no need to make out a special or exceptional case for anticipatory bail but during investigation in this case evidence under Section 409 IPC and other offences, as disclosed here-in-above, have also been added; number of investors (more than 2.5 lakhs) have invested their money in the Company; invested amount is also over and above 3500 crores and they are still waiting for return of the money invested by them in the Company, hence, having regard to the entire facts and circumstances of the case and the law laid down by the Apex Court in Lavesh case (supra) and also considering the submissions of learned counsel for the parties and keeping in view the nature and gravity of offence, money invested by the investors with the Company, modus operandi adopted by the Company diverting the investors' amount in other different Scheme against the agreement, criminal cases lodged against the applicant, issuance of non-bailable warrant and reward of Rs. 50,000/- and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has not made out a case for anticipatory bail. The anticipatory bail application is rejected. Order Date :- 05.01.2021
 
safi