(Cause title taken from Case Information System)

 For Applicant(s) : Mr. Kishor Bhaduri, Senior Advocate with
 Mr. Mohit Kumar, Advocate. For Respondent(s)/ED : Dr. Saurabh Pande, Advocate. Hon'ble Shri Justice Ravindra Kumar Agrawal

 C.A.V. Order 1. This is first bail application filed by the applicant under Section 483 of

 the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (in short "BNSS"), read

 with Section 45 and 65 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002 (hereinafter called as 'the PMLA, 2002) for grant of regular bail to
VEDPRAKASH
DEWANGAN the applicant who has been arrested on 06-12-2024 for the offence Digitally signed by VEDPRAKASH DEWANGAN Date: 2025.08.05 20:15:22 +0530 2 under Section 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002. 2. The brief facts of the case are that an ECIR bearing No. RPZO/10/2022

 has been registered on 02-09-2023 under Sections 3 and 4 of the

 PMLA, 2002 against various accused persons by the Enforcement

 Directorate (in short 'the ED'). Initially, the name of the present

 applicant was not there in the ECIR dated 06-10-2022 and the

 amended ECIR dated 02-09-2023 as the accused. As many as 6 FIRs

 have been registered against various accused persons for the offence

 of cheating and criminal conspiracy, which relates to the Online betting

 App by the name of Mahadev App. On 08-09-2023 and 10-09-2023,

 the residential house and office of the applicant was searched and

 DEMAT Account of the applicant and his family members were frozen.

 The applicant appeared before ED on their summons and his

 statement under Section 50 of the PMLA 2002 was recorded on

 10-09-2023 itself. He again appeared on 11-09-2023, 12-09-2023,

 27-09-2023, 28-09-2023 and 29-09-2023 and his statement were

 recorded by ED under Section 50 of PMLA 2002. The final reports/FIRs have been annexed by the ED along with

 its complaint dated 20-10-2023 in its first prosecution complaint. It is

 alleged that Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal are shown to be

 promoters of the said Mahadev Online betting App, and Vikas

 Chhapariya has a strong link with the said promoters, Sourabh

 Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal. At the time when Sourabh Chandrakar got

 married outside India, the said Vikas Chhapariya had made payments

 to the vendors of the wedding; therefore, Vikas Chhapariya had a 3 strong link with the promoters. When the premises of Govind Kediya

were searched, from his laptop it was found that certain information

was shared by him with Vikas Chhapariya. It is also found that among

many other account details, Govind Kediya was sharing account

details of Nitin Tibrewal with Vikas Chhapariya, and thereafter the

statement of Govind Kediya was recorded by the ED on 08-09-2023

and 10-09-2023. On 20-10-2023, the ED had filed its first prosecution complaint

under Section 44 read with Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 for the

offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against 14 accused

persons, but in that complaint, the present applicant was not arrayed

as an accused. On 01-01-2024, the ED filed its first supplementary

prosecution complaint, in which the applicant was not arrayed as an

accused. On 11-03-2024, the ED had filed its second supplementary

prosecution complaint in the present ECIR under Sections 44 and 45 of

the PMLA, 2002, for the offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA,

2002, against three accused persons, and in this supplementary

prosecution complaint also, the applicant is not arrayed as an accused. On 30-04-2024, the ED has filed the third supplementary

prosecution complaint against 7 additional accused persons and 16

companies. On 08-11-2024, 29-11-2024 and 06-12-2024, the applicant

was again summoned by ED and ultimately, he was arrested on

06-12-2024. The allegation against the present applicant is that he is

well known to Mr. Hari Shankar Tibrewal, who is engaged in the 4 "skyexchange" betting app. The present applicant is also engaged in

illegal operation of the "skyexchange" and he is a panel operator as

well as a distributor of "skyexchange". From the Excel sheet recovered

from the laptop of the applicant, the calculations of illegal betting in

"skyexchange" are found. The Excel sheet recovered from the

applicant is corroborated by the statements of Mr. Pawan Marodia @

Bunty, and Mr. Rupesh Kumar Singh, in which they admitted to having

an ID for "skyexchange" and using it to play through the applicant and

cash transactions. It is also the allegation against the present applicant

that the office of the applicant was used to collect cash from the illegal

betting app of "skyexchange", which is also corroborated by the

statement of Mr. Nitin Sharma and Mr. Anurag Kedia (relative of the

applicant). His staff, including Mr. Shekhar Ghosh, Mr. Biswajit Ghosh,

Mr. Raju, and others, were involved in cash dealings. From the detailed

calculation of the proceeds of crime from the "skyexchange" betting

app between September 2020 to September 2023, i.e. on the date of

the search of the premises of the applicant, he approximately earned

Rs. 5.15 Crore, which is the proceeds of crime under Section 2(i)(u) of

the PMLA 2002. It is also the allegation against the applicant that one Mr. Vikas

Chhaparia is a close associate of the promoters of Mahadev Book, and

he is handling the funds of Mahadev Online Book. present applicant

through various investments. From the digital data recovered from the

laptop of the applicant, and from his statement recorded under Section

50 of PMLA 2002, it comes that the applicant invested about Rs. 42.91 5 Crore in the share market through a DMAT account with the

association of Mr. Vikas Chhaparia. Thus, the trade related to Mr. Vikas

Chhaparia were settled by the applicant, knowing fully well that he was

in possession of proceeds of crime. The applicant is engaged in

dealing with the proceeds of crime, layering it, and also benefited from

the same. The investigation also reveals that the applicant received

bank entries of Rs. 1.51 Crore against cash from M/s Kaalka Jewels in

the bank account run at Kotak Mahindra Bank in the name of his wife,

Smt. Pooja Kedia, which is also corroborated by the statement of Mr.

Shubhankar Jaria (prop. of M/s Kaalka Jewels). The applicant also

utilised the services of his associates Mr. Sandip Fogla, Mr. Sanjay

Fogla, Mr. Pawan Marodia @ Bunty and Mr. Bineet Agrawal, for

layering of the proceeds of crime generated from "skyexchange" and

"Mahadev Book". From the present applicant, who was a friend of Nitin Tibrewal,

digital devices were seized from him which also revealed that he was

sharing an Excel account statement related to the present applicant's

investment with Vikas Chhapariya. It is also alleged in the prosecution

complaint that the present applicant is also found to be associated with

"skyexchange" which is also an illegal betting website and associated

with the persons at the highest level of "skyexchange" and thus, the

applicant enjoyed the proceeds of crime and is involved in the

concealment, layering and use of proceeds of crime and has

committed the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 which is punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA, 6 2002. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit that the applicant is not

 an accused in the predicate offence as per Public Gambling (C.G.

 Amendment) Act, 1976 . The alleged offence is not a scheduled

 offence. In reply filed by the ED, they have admitted that the proceeds

 of crime are only the money generated from the bogus/benami

 accounts used by "skyexchange". He would also submit that the knowledge and mens rea is an

 essential ingredients to establish the offence of money laundering

 punishable under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 and the same is

 missing in the present case that the applicant had any knowledge or

 mens rea that "skyexchange" was using some bogus bank account for

 transactions. To link the applicant with the "skyexchange" betting App,

 the statements of Mr.Nitin Sharma, Mr. Anurag Kedia, Mr. Shubhankar

 Jaria (owner of M/s Kaalka Jewels), Mr. Vikas Chhaparia, are there

 which are recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002. Mr. Vikas

 chhaparia is a co-accused in the present case and his statements was

 recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 since he is accomplish

 his statement is not admissible and is not qualified as evidence under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act. Further, the applicant has

 retracted his statement by filing his affidavit before the learned Special

 Judge, PMLA, 2002, Raipur and thus, the retracted statement cannot

 be considered to be evidence against the applicant. There is no reference to any scheduled offence committed by the

 applicant. Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002 defines the proceeds of 7 crime and Section 3 defines money laundering, therefore, there has to

be a criminal activity that is connected with the scheduled offence and

if any person generates some money which will come under the

definition of proceed of crime which is defined under Section 2(1)(u) of

the PMLA, 2002, therefore, the sine qua non is the existence of

scheduled offence and the existence of proceeds of crime generated

from the scheduled offence. The allegation against the present

applicant is that he received proceeds of crime, but the ED could not

identify the proceeds of crime. The applicant is involved in the fourth prosecution complaint. He

would further submit that not a single player or a person who is playing

in the game is the victim of the offence and no complaint has been

made by them, no person is saying that they have been cheated. The

ED unilaterally stated that it is cheating and illegal. He would further

submit that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Vijay Madan Lal

Choudhary Vs. Union of India, (2022) SCC Online SC 929 has held

that the foundational facts to establish money laundering criminal

activity related to scheduled offence has been committed, property in

question has been derived or obtained directly or indirectly, by any

person as a result of criminal activity and the person concerned is

directly or indirectly involved in a process or activity connected with the

said property being proceeds of crime. He would rely upon para 343 of

the Vijay Madan Lal Choudhari's case (supra). ED has failed to

demonstrate that the property in question has been derived or obtained

directly or indirectly by the present applicant as result of that criminal 8 activity as they have failed to prove any nexus between such proceeds

of crime and the applicant. There is no evidence on record to show that

the proceeds of crime generated through predicated offence have been

concealed, possessed, acquired or used and claimed as untainted

property by the applicant. The ED has made some vague allegations

against the applicant that he is in association with "skyexchange"

betting app. However, there is no evidence on record that the applicant

actually has a nexus with "skyexchange". Learned counsel for the applicant would further argue that the

culpability of the applicant is based on an Excel sheet that was

retrieved from the digital device owned by the applicant and the said

Excel sheet was shared by the applicant to Vikas Chhapariya which

purportedly contained financial documents relating to the applicant.

There is nothing to show that these financial transactions were actually

carried out. Further, it is not the case of the ED that such financial

transactions were the proceeds of crime. The ED is in a hypothetical

assumption that since the present applicant shared the financial

transactions with Vikas Chhapariya, therefore, these were the part of

Benami investment of Vikas Chhapariya. The ED has miserably failed

to connect the applicant with the investment along with Vikas

Chhapariya and therefore, a concocted story was developed by the ED

that the applicant is involved in another betting App namely

"skyexchange". None of the predicate offences are related to any

transaction of "skyexchange". It is also part of the argument of learned counsel for the applicant 9 that against the applicant the statement of two persons are there in the

case, i.e., Vikas Chhaparia and Shubhankar Jaria of M/s Kaalka

Jewels. Their statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002

have been considered as substantive evidence against the present

applicant, whereas, in the matter of " Amit Agrawal Vs. Directorate of

Enforcement " reported in 2024 SCC Online Delhi 141, the Hon'ble

Delhi High Court has held that the statements made by

co-accused/witness under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002, their

evidentiary value can be tested at the stage of trial. The bail application

of the applicant in that case was allowed. The ED has miserably failed to prima facie demonstrate the

requisite mens rea in the alleged act of the applicant to exhibit his

knowledge or active participation in any act with proceeds of crime with

respect to the scheduled offence. The allegation against the present

applicant does not indicate any involvement in the predicate offence or

even his knowledge to constitute the alleged offence, therefore, there

are reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not guilty of an

offence under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. It is also submitted that the arrest of the applicant is illegal and

malafide as the statement of the applicant has been recorded many

times before the filing of fourth supplementary prosecution complaint

dated 04-02-2025 and till that day the applicant was not made as an

accused. The statement of the applicant has been recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 after his arrest which hit by Section 25 of

the Evidence Act and Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India. 10 It is further argued by the learned counsel for the applicant that

ED cannot proceed with the pick and choose method in arraying the

applicant as accused in the present case. in the original prosecution

complaint, first supplementary prosecution complaint, second

supplementary prosecution complaint, the applicant was not named

and has not been arrayed as an accused and has not been arrested.

The similarly situated accused persons in the case namely Prashant

Bagdi and Anil Saraogi have not been arrested by the prosecution and

he has been benefited by Section 88 of the Criminal Procedure Code,

1973, and released on their personal bond, after about more than one

year of his initial investigation, he has been arrested, he repeatedly

called by ED and he was cooperated with the investigation and

appeared before ED whenever they called him, all the accused

persons are on bail and the case of the present applicant is also similar

to the case of other accused persons and the allegation are almost

same that they are engaged in operating illegal batting app and

generated the proceeds of crime, there are about 195 witnesses and till

date, even the charges have not been framed and there is every

possibility of delay of trial. The applicant is in jail since 06-12-2024. It is

also submitted by him that recently, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

granted bail to the other similarly situated co-accused persons in S.L.P

(Crl.) No. 14286 of 2024 (Nitin Tibrewal v. Directorate of

Enforcement), and other batch of S.L.P. (Crl.), vide its order dated

23-07-2025, and the case of the present applicant is also similar to

them, therefore the present applicant may also be released on bail. 11 The applicant cooperates at every stage of the investigation and

 appears before the ED on multiple occasions as and when they are

 required for investigation. There is reasonable grounds to believe that

 the applicant is not guilty of such an offence of money laundering. The

 applicant is a well-reputed individual with having good reputation in the

 society and community. He does not have any criminal antecedent.

 The applicant is the sole breadwinner of his family and has to take care

 of his family. The appellant is to abide by all the conditions which may

 imposed by the Hon'ble Court while granting bail to him with the

 undertaking that he will not tamper with any evidence or to influence

 any witness of the case. The investigation against the present applicant

 has been completed. Therefore, the applicant may be enlarged on

 regular bail. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/ED, apart from the reply

 in writing submitted to the application by them has opposed the

 arguments made by learned counsel for the applicant and submitted

 that an ECIR bearing No. RPZO/10/2022 is recorded against Mahadev

 Online book to investigate the matter under the PMLA, Act 2002 on the

 basis of charge sheet No.157/2022 dated 29-07-2022 filed by police

 station Mohan Nagar, District Durg against Alok Singh Rajput,

 Rampravesh Sahu, Kharag @ Raja Singh and others for the offence

 under Section 120B and 420 of the IPC alleging in it that the accused

 persons are involved in online betting in live ludo, football, casino game

 and amass through Mahadev book. On being secret information, the raid

 was conducted and aforesaid accused persons were taken into custody 12 who had prepared a set-up with laptops by which they collected money

by creating an Online ID and then the said money was put in bet for

others through Mahadev Online book on online cricket match, horse

racing, greyhound racing and Kabaddi etc. Various laptops, mobile

phones, passbooks of various banks, debit/credit cards, sim cards,

cheque books and cash were seized from the premises and an

investigation under the PMLA, 2002 was undertaken after recording of

the ECIR. During the course of the investigation, it came into

knowledge that various FIRs have also been registered all over the

country for illegal online betting through Mahadev book and one of the

FIRs of Crime No.206/2023 dated 02-06-2023 was registered by

Andhra Pradesh police, P.S. Cyber Crime, Vishakhapatnam

Commissionerate for the offence under Section 419, 420, 467, 468,

471, 120 read with Section 34 of the IPC, 66C, 66 D of Information

Technology Act, 2000 and Section 3 and 4 of Andhra Pradesh

Gambling Act. The Andhra Pradesh Police has further come to the knowledge

that 21 persons were running call centres for the operation of the

Mahadev App. and they were collecting money from punters who

intended to put bets and deposited the money in bank accounts shared

through WhatsApp groups. Those persons put their bets on websites

like Tiger Exchange, Gold 365, Lesser 247, Cricket Buzz.com, and

Play 247.win, skyexchange.com and Cricket Bet Nine.com. The money

made from the said app was transferred to different bank accounts till it

was siphoned to a person named Sourabh Chandrakar who lives in 13 Dubai. The Govt. has blocked the illegal betting website Mahadev

Book. It also comes into knowledge that Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi

Uppal, Kapil Chelani and Satish Kumar who are also residing in Dubai,

are known to operate close to 60 illegal offshore gambling websites

such as Lotus 365, Fair Play, Reddy Anna, Lesser Book, Tiger

Exchange, Bad book 247 and Gold 365. Several cases relating to fraud

and illegal activities have been registered against Sourabh

Chandrakar. Various FIRs have been registered against various

individuals for being involved in illegal betting operations through the

Mahadev book app and those FIRs are at P.S. Gudhiyari, Raipur, P.S.

Bhilai Bhatthi, District Durg, P.S. Khamtarai, Raipur etc. The FIR of

Crime No.6/2024 registered by EOW, Raipur C.G. for the offence under Section 120B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the IPC and Section 7 and 11 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended on 2018)

registered against Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Shubham Soni,

Harishankar Tibrewal and others for being involved in betting

operations through Mahadev Online book, Sky Exchange and other

betting apps. The FIR No.206/2020 registered in the Burtola P.S.,

Kolkata, West Bengal for the offence under Section 120B and 420 of

the IPC and Section 3 and 4 of the West Bengal Gambling and Prize

Competition Act, has also been registered against Harishankar

Tibrewal, Suraj Chokhani and others for being engaged in online

betting. He would further submit that Mahadev's online book provides an

online platform for illegal betting in different live games like cricket, 14 badminton, tennis, football etc. and also provides facilities for playing a

number of card games like teen patti, poker, dragon tiger, virtual cricket

game etc.

 To create an appearance of genuineness for this illegal betting

racket Mahadev Online Book the promoters have a company

registered in the name M/s Mahadev Book Market Limited in the

country of Sent Vincent and the Grenadines under the directorship in

the name of Shubham Soni who is part of top management of

Mahadev Online book. Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal are the

main promoters and beneficiary owners of this betting syndicate. The

Mahadev online book operates from abroad and provides WhatsApp

contact numbers on the websites. Once a user contacts the number, he

will be provided two separate contact numbers. One contact number is

to be utilized for depositing money and collecting points in IDs and the

second number is for contacting the website to encash points

accumulated in the designated IDs. The IDs are generally created on

multiple websites depending on the needs and preferences of the

betters. The betting app is operated by various panels/branches which

are sold by the promoters and they keep 70-75% of the profit of the

panel operations. A panel has an owner and workers normally four in

number. One person can own multiple panels. The office of promoters

in Dubai is commonly known as the head office by the panel owners

and the said panel owners can create user profiles of players/punters.

The panel operators are allotted fixed credits which can be transferred

to any player/punter and credits are allocated to the players against 15 payments in designated bank accounts. The players/punters who want

to play online betting through Mahadev Book via WhatsApp number

given on the website of Mahadev Book then head office refers these

players/punters to the panel. After receiving the details of the panel the

players/punters deposit a minimum amount of Rs.100/- with no

maximum amount for online betting. The panel owners receive the

funds from customers into benami bank accounts which are arranged

by the panel owners. These bank accounts are either opened

fraudulently or loaned for commission. Thousands of employees are

working in the call centre in Dubai which operates multiple WhatsApp

groups for each panel. Weekly account sheets are shared with the

panel owners by head office which contain statements of all bets, total

profit or total loss. The panel owners are supposed to remit the shares

of the Mahadev head office via hawala routs on a regular basis. During the course of the investigation, the bank account

statements of various bank accounts gathered through intelligence

were called for. After analysing the said bank accounts trends of funds

have led ED to the doorstep of multiple entities that either remit money

outside India or withdraw it as cash. It is suspected that thousands of

crores of illegal betting proceeds which are nothing but proceeds of

crime have been remitted outside India. The promoters of the Mahadev

online book have also set up mini-companies in Dubai to route money

and also to facilitate Visa services to the staff of the Mahadev online

book working there. It was also found that one Harishankar Tibrewal,

who hails from Kolkata and currently residing in Dubai is the partner of 16 promoters of Mahadev Online Book on being search of his premises in

Kolkata, it was found that Harishankar Tibrewal owned and operated

one of the illegal betting website i.e. "skyexchange". He would further submit that from the applicant, his laptop has

been seized and from the date recovered from his laptop, his

connection with the "skyexchange" betting app is discovered. It also

discovered that he is having close connection with Mr. Hari Shankar

Tibrewal, who is one of the owners/promoters of "skyexchange" and

the applicant is one of the panel operators as well as distributor of said

"skyexchange". From the Excel sheet discovered from the laptop of the

applicant, certain calculation have also been detected which is

corroborated with the statement of Mr. Rupesh Kumar Singh and Mr.

Pawan Marodia @ Bunty, who admitted that they are having IDs of

"skyexchange" and used to place illegal betting at "skyexchange"

through the present applicant. The said Ids are also matched with the

IDs found in the Excel sheet of the laptop of the applicant. It is also

found during the investigation that the office of the present applicant

was used to be a hub of collecting cash generated from "skyexchange".

There is a statement of Mr. Nitin Sharma and Mr. Anurag Kedia, who

stated that they have purchased points from Govind Kedia by paying

cash at his office and other persons have also dropping cash there in

relation to "skyexchange". From the material available with the

prosecution, a detailed calculation is done and it is found that in

between September 2020 to September 2023, the applicant earned

amount of Rs. 5.15 Crore (approx.) from "skyexchange", which is 17 proceeds of crime. During the investigation, it also reveals that Mr.

Vikas Chhaparia, whose name is in first prosecution complaint, is a

close associate of promotors of "Mahadev Book" and he was handling

the funds of Mahadev Online Book for investment purpose and

involved in the offence of money laundering. From the digital date

recovered from the laptop of the applicant, and from his statement, it

reveals that he invested huge amount of Rs. 42.91 Crore in share

market through his DMAT account under the instructions of Mr. Vikas

Chhaparia. The trades related to Mr. Vikas Chhaparia was settled by

the present applicant by way of cash knowing fully well that Mr. Vikas

Chhaparia was in possession of proceeds of crime. The present

applicant knowingly dealt with proceeds of crime and benefited out of

the same and assisted Mr. Vikas Chhaparia in use, layering and

earning profit on the proceeds of crime generated from criminal

activities. He would also submit that the present applicant received bank

entry of Rs. 1.51 Crore against cash from M/s Kaalka Jewels in the

bank account at Kotak Mahindra Bank in the name of his wife Smt.

Pooja Kedia, which has also been corroborated from the statement of

Mr. Shubhankar Jaria (owner of M/s Kaalka Jewels). There exists a

prima facie case against the applicant and non-fulfillment of the twin

conditions enumerated in Section 45(1) of the PMLA 2002. Charge

sheet/prosecution complaint has already been filed against the present

applicant. Although, the other co-accused have been granted bail by

the Hon'ble Apex Court, however, the matter cannot be equated with 18 that case of co-accused persons. He would rely upon the judgement

passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Tarun Kumar v. Assistant

Director, Directorate of Enforcement ", 2023 SCC Online SC 1486,

and submits that the parity is not the law and the allegation against the

accused persons are to be examined. there should be no blanket order

that only because another accused was released on bail, should not be

passed. Considering the role played by the present applicant Govind

Kedia in commission of offence of money laundering under Section 3 of

the PMLA, 2002, he was arrested on 06-12-2024. The prosecution

complaint has already been filed against the present application at

Special Court, PMLA Raipur. It is further submitted by learned counsel

for the respondent that the ED has identified the proceeds of crime and

its realization by the betting syndicate. The proceeds in question were

being generated by the Mahadev Online Book/skyexchange. From the

material collected during the investigation, it has also been identified

that the amount generated from illegal betting app has been utilized in

investing in the Indian share market, etc. from the statement of Mr.

Pawan Marodia @ Bunty, Mr. Bineet Agarwal, Mr. Sandeep Fogla and

Mr. Sanjay Fogla, the involvement of the applicant in the offence in

question is prima facie appeared. Further, the applicant was one of the

admins of another illegal betting website "skyexchange" and the admin

can create a master ID which further creates a player ID for betting.

Therefore, he was under the knowledge that the betting operations of

"skyexchange" are illegal and funds generated from it would come 19 under the ambit of proceeds of crime. Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002, says the reasonable ground for

believing which prima facie means that the Court has to see whether

there is genuine case against the accused or not. The prosecution is

not required to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt at this stage.

There is sufficient evidence against the present applicant involving him

in the offence in question. He would also submit that the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Vijay Madan Lal Choudhary's case (supra) upheld

the validity of Section 45(1) of the PMLA, 2002. He would further

submit that in " Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy Vs. CBI ", reported in (2013)

7 SCC 439 that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the economic

offences constitute clause apart and need to be visited with a different

approach in the matter of bail. The economic offences having deep

routed conspiracy and involving huge loss of public funds need to be

viewed seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the

economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat

to the financial health of the country. It is further submitted that all the key persons involved in the

scam are relocated to the UAE. There is every chance of the applicant

seeking to defeat the process of law in India. There is every possibility

of tempering with the witnesses and evidence of the case. Further

relying upon the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

" Gurvinder Singh Vs. State of Punjab " in the order dated 07-02-2024

passed in CRA No.704/2024 submitted that the trial proceeding of the

case will take time and cannot be a ground to grant bail. He would 20 further submit that there is sufficient evidence against the present

 applicant which prima facie establishes his involvement in the offence

 in question and in view of the nature of the offence, the applicant is not

 entitled to grant of bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

 available on record. 6. For consideration of the bail application under PMLA, 2002 the Court

 need not go deep inside the merits of the case but should consider the

 prima facie material against the accused in the case. The Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary's case

 (supra) has observed in para 401 of its judgment that:- 7. In the case of " Satish Jaggi Vs. State of Chhattisgarh ", (2007) 11

 SCC 195, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "at the stage of

 granting of bail, the Court can only go into the question of prima facie

 case established for granting bail, it cannot go into the question of

 credibility and reliability of witnesses put up by the prosecution. The

 question of credibility and reliability of prosecution witnesses can only

 be tested during trial." 8. The Delhi High Court in its order dated 07-03-2024 passed in Bail

 Application No. 3807/2022 ( Sanjay Jain Vs. Enforcement

 Directorate ) after relying upon the observations made in the case of

 "Vijay Madanlal Choudhary" (Supra) has observed in para 49 that:- 9. In the present case, in the statement of Pawan Marodia @ Bunty

 recorded under Section 50 of PMLA 2002, he admitted that the present

 applicant gave him the cash of Rs. 1.50 Crore for taking bank entries

 against cash on commission basis and invested it in the share market.

 He also admitted that under the instruction of the present applicant, he

 paid the salary to Mr. Arpit (employee of Mr. Anand Rathi) from the

 bank account of his wife Smt. Neelam Marodia, which was paid to him

 in cash by the present applicant. The credit IDs and password of

 "skyexchange" and password of trade account of Mr. Pawan Marodia

 was maintained by the applicant. There is close connection between

 Pawan Marodia and the applicant with respect to transaction of huge

 money. From the statement of Mr. Sandip Fogla, it also comes that

 they were paying salaries to Mr. Anurag Kedia and Mr. Abhishek Kedia,

 who are the employee of the present applicant and engaged in

 managing all the accounts. It is also found from the analysis of digital

 data that Mr. Sandip Fogla was having ID of "skyexchange" and used

 to place illegal bet. The client IDs and password of all trading accounts

 of Mr. Sandip Fogla, Mr. Sanjay Fogla and their family members were 23 maintained by the applicant in his laptop. He was having complete

 control on all the trading accounts of Fogla family and to invested the

 huge amount in share market. From the statement of Mr. Bineet

 Agarwal, it also reveals that he has taken Rs. 10 Crore cash from the

 present applicant which was utilized for receiving bank entries for Mr.

 Amit Saraogi, who is one of the accused in the case. the present

 applicant is also using trading account of his entity M/s Good View

 Trading, and he is maintaining the ID and password of the same. The

 investment made by M/s Good View Trading belongs to the present

 applicant having full control of said entity. The present applicant gave

 the amount in cash to Mr. Bineet Agarwal and he invested in the share

 market by using the bank account of his entities. From the statements of Mr. Nitin Sharma, Mr. Anurag Kedia,

 Shubhankar Jaria, Mr. Pawan Marodia @ Bunty, Mr. Sandip Fogla and

 from the analysis of digital data recovered from the laptop of the

 present applicant, there is sufficient prima facie evidence against the

 applicant that he is involved in the commission of the offence of money

 laundering. 10. The criminal activity of operating of "skyexchange", illegal online betting

 app and generating the proceeds of crime, transferred through the

 bogus bank account is the proceeds of crime as defined under Section

 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002. The digital record seized in the case and from

 the statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 clearly

 establishes the link of the present applicant with the illegal betting

 website "skyexchange" and the generation of proceeds of crime 24 through it. 11. The proceeds of crime have been defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the

 PMLA, 2002 which reads as under:- 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of " Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy

 Vs. CBI ", reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439, has held in para 34 and 35 of

 its judgment that- 13. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of "Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary" 14. in the matter of " Tarun Kumar v. Assistant Director, Directorate of

 Enforcement ", 2023 SCC Online SC 1486, the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has held that:- 15. Having considered the rival submissions made by the respective

 parties and also from the material produced in the present case, it is

 not acceptable that the present applicant did not know about the

 transaction. Denial by the accused itself is not sufficient to consider

 prima facie that there is no mens rea of the applicant for the said

 offence under the PMLA, 2002. Although the statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 is required to be tested at the time of

 trial, for the purpose of consideration of bail application the statement

 recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 can be considered

 against the applicant. 16. Considering the nature of allegation against the present applicant and 27 also the material collected during the investigation and further the

 gravity of the offence, the benefit of the judgments cited by the learned

 counsel for the applicant cannot be extended to him for releasing him

 on bail at this stage, as the facts and circumstances of the present

 case and the allegation against the applicant is different than the facts

 and circumstances of the cases cited by learned counsel for the

 applicant. 17. As has been discussed hereinabove, it cannot be said that there is no

 involvement of the applicant in the offence in question. Considering the

 role of the applicant in the ensuing money laundering case of proceeds

 of crime in Mahadev Book App/skyexchange, it is found that there is

 sufficient evidence collected by the respondent/ED to prima facie show

 the involvement of the applicant in the offence of money laundering as

 defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. It is an organized crime

 having various facets of its complexion, therefore, further considering

 the provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 this Court is satisfied

 that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant is

 involved in the offence and he is likely to commit any other offence

 while on bail, I am not inclined to grant bail to the applicant. 18. Consequently, the present bail application filed by the applicant

 Govind Kumar Kedia is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge
ved