1. The brief facts of the case as stated in the plaint are that plaintiff

is a law abiding senior citizen, resides with his wife, son and daughter-

in-law in their ancestral home i.e House No.1, Shahpur Jat, New

Delhi-110049. All the defendants are blood relatives of the plaintiff.

The defendant No.1 is the brother and the remaining are nephews of

the plaintiff. The defendants are also residing with their families in

the adjoining house i.e House No.1, Shahpur Jat, New Delhi-110049.

The houses of the plaintiff and the defendants are built up on their

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 2 of 33
 own share of one single bigger piece of their ancestral land. The

plaintiff and the defendants have constructed their houses on the

pieces of land which were given as per their share in the ancestral land

and this share separation was done long time back, which is around 35

years ago. After this share separation, the plaintiff and the defendants

have constructed their floors time to time according to their need on

their own piece of land and since then, plaintiff and the defendants are

peacefully residing and are in possession of their own share. Since the

devision took place, the plaintiff and the defendants have common

passage of their houses. In other words, the plaintiff and the

defendants have not yet decided their separate ways but they all are

having single common way/opening, which are commonly being used

for going in and for coming out. The space which is used as common

passage is in addition to their separate share which is in outside area

of the houses which was left common for the plaintiff and the

defendants. 2. The plaintiff and the defendants are commonly using the space

left for common passage and also are in common possession. The

plaintiff and the defendants have their electricity meters fixed on the

wall of the common passage. Further, the defendants have been using

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 3 of 33
 some portion of the common passage for parking bikes. The

defendants had constructed two toilets in the common passage for

their own use and the plaintiff had also constructed one room at the

first floor of the common passage, which have already being

demolished on 07.01.2013 in order to make and clear the three

separate ways of the common passage. In the past few years, some

differences arose between the plaintiff and the defendants, one of the

dispute is in respect of use and possession of the common passage of

their houses. On 28.12.2012, the defendant No.4 fought with the

defendant No.5 for the electricity meter on the wall of the common

passage, following this fight on 29.12.2012 both of them

compromised the matter. During compromise, the defendants No.2, 4

& 6 collected some people of the vicinity and raised the issue of

common passage and insisted to divide the separate ways. The

defendants have insisted the plaintiff to approach the Village

Panchayat along with them to resolve the issues of common passage.

In furtherance of long debate and talks, the plaintiff and the

defendants have approached the Panchayat and unanimously agreed to

resolve the issue by making three separate, their own ways/passage for

their houses. Consequently, they settled the issue by entering into an

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 4 of 33
 agreement, and the terms and the conditions of the said division were

also reduced into writing. The said settlement was made in the

presence of the witnesses who have witnessed the execution of the

said agreement dated 01.01.2013. Thereafter, the plaintiff and the

defendants appeared before the Notary Public at Mehrauli Court on

07.01.2013 and got the document notarized. The said agreement is

written in Hindi on an e-stamp paper of Rs. 10/- and is titled as

'Rajinama' dated 01.01.2013 under the signatures and with

photographs of the plaintiff, his son and the defendant No.1 to 6. The

plaintiff and the defendants have agreed to make three separate

passage/ways for their own, and in doing so some partitions or

structures as constructed by the plaintiff and the defendants were

required and was also agreed to be demolished for clearing the three

passages. As per the first para of the 'Rajinama' the following

structures were agreed to be demolished:- 3. The plaintiff and the defendants were agreed to demolish their

constructed portions, as described under the previous para, to clear the

passages with a time bound non-expendable period of three months

from the date of execution of the 'Rajinama'. Further, as per the

second para of the 'Rajinama', it was agreed that in case any

party/parties fails to comply with his commitment, he/they shall be

liable to a fine of Rs. 5,00,000/-. It was also agreed that in case of

default in paying the fine by the failing party, he shall have to face a

legal action before a competent court and the expenditures shall also

be paid by him only. It is further stated that the defendants together

insisted plaintiff to demolish the room and poly first. They assured

that when the plaintiff will demolish his agreed portion then it would

be convenient for them to demolish their portions. Accordingly, on

07.01.2013, the plaintiff demolished his room and poly at his cost and

expenditures of Rs. 50,000/-, after the assurance and under the

influence of the defendants that after such demolition, the defendants

shall demolish their own portions. Thereafter, the defendants have

kept silence and the given time period has already expired. The

plaintiff has time and again been requesting the defendants but they

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 6 of 33
 turned out to be deaf ears. 4. The plaintiff has gone before the Panchayat, requesting them to

insist the defendants to perform their premises but the defendants are

not demolishing their agreed portions and not clearing the passage,

which is causing the serious problems for the plaintiff. Afterwards,

the plaintiff wrote a formal request letter and this was sent on

14.05.2013 to the Panchayat because said Rajinama was executed

before Panchayat. But even after that, the defendants deliberately not

fulfilling their promises. The 'Rajinama' was executed on the request

of the defendants and who firstly insisted the plaintiff to demolish the

agreed portion. The plaintiff, in good faith, demolished his room and

now the defendants are playing claver game. The defendant No.2 is

the prime player who is willfully not fulfilling his promise and also

influencing other defendants for such default and dragging the

plaintiff into other legal proceedings to divert the attention from the

real issue. The defendants have mischievously and intentionally failed

to perform their duties as agreed by them in the 'Rajinama'. For this

deliberate act or their failing in their obligation to demolish the said

portions/structures, has made them liable for legal action and claims

and also the fine of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lacs Only) as

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 7 of 33
 stipulate in the 'Rajinama'. In view of the above fact, the plaintiff

served upon the defendants a legal notice dated 27.03.2013 and called

upon them to comply with their agreed obligation. 5. The plaintiff received a joint reply dated 07.06.2013 of the

defendant No.2 & 4 to the legal notice dated 27.05.2013. Defendants

instead of complying with the agreed terms and conditions of the

Rajinama, made false and baseless allegations on the plaintiff and

questioned the sanctity of the Rajinama. Hence, plaintiff filed the

present suit. 6. Written statement was filed on behalf of defendant No.1 and 3

wherein the defendants disputed and denied the contents of plaint. It

is stated that the plaintiff and the defendants have blood relation and

the property in which they have been living for years, is an ancestral

property. The subject property was thereon devolved amongst the

legal heirs of Late Sh. Charan Singh i.e. plaintiff, defendant no.1 and

Late Sh. Ram Kisan, who died intestate. The said property was

equally partitioned amongst the legal heirs of Late Sh. Charan Singh.

The construction on the partitioned share of property was constructed

by the plaintiff, defendant No.1 and Late Sh. Ram Kishan

respectively out of their own expense. It is further stated that the said

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 8 of 33
 ancestral property had a common passage for ingress and egress of all

the parties to the suit. 7. There are some additional constructions made by the plaintiff

and defendants which has become a cause of discord amongst the

parties. 8. In order to settle the dispute regarding the said property, the

plaintiff and all the defendants reached an understanding whereby all

of them agreed to demolish their respective disputed portion and to

solve the dispute amicably. In this regard, an agreement was entered

into amongst the parties by way of 'Rajinama' dated 01.01.2013

whereby the parties had to demolish their respective disputed portion

at the earliest in as much as no further inconvenience and/or problem

may be caused to the other parties. In pursuance of the said

'Rajinama', the plaintiff demolished the said disputed portion in his

property within 10-12 days from the date of said 'Rajinama'. The

defendant No.1 & 3 also wanted to demolish the portion falling under

their possession but the defendant No.2 had stopped them from

demolishing that portion as the defendant No.2 is in the occupation of

2nd and 3rd floor and unless the structure on the first floor is

demolished, the structure on the 2 nd & 3rd floor cannot be demolished.

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 9 of 33
 The defendant No.1 and 3 are in the occupation of ground floor and

First Floor jointly whereas the defendant No.2 is in the possession of

2nd floor and 3rd floor. It is admitted and submitted that on 28.12.2012,

the defendant No.4 has fought with the defendant No.5 for the

electricity meter on the wall of the common passage. During the said

fight between the defendant No.4 & 5, defendant no.1 intercepted and

tried to pacify both the parties to enable them to end the fight, the

defendant No.1 sustained injuries in his left hand. Thereafter, an MLC

for the injury of the defendant No.1 was done in Jai Prakash Narayan

Apex Trauma Center. After the said fight, a Panchayat in this regard

was called and the Panchayat unanimously decided to have a

'Rajinama' executed amongst the parties to settle the dispute amicably.

The decision of the Panchayat was agreeable to the plaintiff as well as

all the defendants. Therefore, the 'Rajinama' dated 01.01.2013 was

entered into and /or executed amongst the parties. 9. Written statement was also filed on behalf of defendant No. 2, 4

& 6 wherein defendants disputed and denied the contents of plaint. It

is submitted in the Written Statement that the present suit is not

maintainable and has been filed by the plaintiff only to harass the

defendants and to force them to withdraw the FIR dated 02.05.2013

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 10 of 33
 bearing No. 157/2013 got registered by the defendant no.2 under Section 325 / 34 of IPC against the plaintiff, his wife Smt. Chand Kaur

and their son Sh. Govind Singh. No 'Rajinama' dated 01.01.2013 ever

got executed between the plaintiff and the defendants, the enforcement

of which is sought by the plaintiff by way of the present suit; and as

such the suit deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone. The

portion in possession of the defendants sought to be demolished by

way of this suit does not fall within the area of the common passage

and as such there is no need to demolish the same. 10. The plaintiff has clearly admitted in Para 3 of the plaint that the

houses of the defendants are built upon their self owned shares given

to them about 35 years ago and as such the plaintiff has no business to

seek demolition of the portion rightfully built up by the defendants on

their respective shares. There is only one common passage which is

used for ingress and egress by the plaintiff as well as the defendants

but the plaintiff has deliberately not mentioned the measurement of

the common passage which is 8 feet 8 inches and it is highly

impractical to divide it into three parts; as each part would measure 2

feet 5 inches (approximately) which would result in practical

difficulties which the defendants as well as the plaintiff would face on

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 11 of 33
 day to day basis. There would hardly be any space for two people to

pass the passage abreast and in the event of any casualty, death or any

family function, the space required for such eventualities would not be

available to the defendants. Further, after raising walls in the passage,

each divided portion would measure 2 feet 1 inch. The stairs and

pillar constructed in the portion of defendant No.4 and 6 does not fall

within the common passage and thus causes no obstruction in the

common passage. Moreover, the defendant No.4 & 5 reside on the

first floor and second floor of the property and the said stairs are the

only means of egress and ingress for the defendant No. 4 & 5. There

is no alternate entry or exit to the portions of defendant No.4 & 5 and

as such demolition of the pillar and the staircase built on it would

cause serious hardship to the defendant No. 4 & 5. The bathroom and

Kitchen owned by defendant No.2 is admittedly on the second floor

and by no stretch of imagination, it can cause an obstruction in the

common passage which is located on the ground floor. The

performance of the alleged 'Rajinama' is not possible, not feasible and

will be a nuisance to the defendants and to the public at large because

the structure of the property is more than 80 years old and demolition

of the portion of the property as sought by the plaintiff would result in

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 12 of 33
 collapsing of the whole property. The suit is bad for non-joinder of

necessary parties as Sh. Govind Singh, son of the plaintiff was also a

signatory to the alleged 'Raajinama' but he has not been impleaded as

party in the suit. The plaintiff in the garb of a 'Raajinama' wants to

partition the common passage and in place of a settlement-deed, the

plaintiff got executed a 'Raajinama' which is insufficiently stamped

and has no legal sanctity in the eyes of law. The defendants had never

approached the plaintiff for any settlement and the real fact is that

there had been a misunderstanding between the defendant No.4 and

the defendant No.5 regarding payment of the electricity bill, due to

which reason some members of the society gathered and sorted out

the issue. There was no dispute regarding the common passage

between defendant No.4 and 5. The common passage as well as the

Room and the Poly were commonly being used by the plaintiff as well

as all the defendants and it was not in exclusive possession or

ownership of the plaintiff. The common passage has lot of electric

meters, bare electric wires and water pipes due to which the plaintiff

as well as the defendants and their families had received physical

injuries on numerous occasions and they are hazardous to both the

plaintiff and the defendants. Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 13 of 33 11. On 30.12.2012, the plaintiff alongwith the defendant No.1, 3 &

5 and his son Sh. Govind Singh had approached the defendants stating

that the plaintiff feared some fatal injury due to the cluster of electric

wires and water pipes and he requested the defendants to get their

respective electric meters removed from the wall of the common

passage and installed in their own portions of the property. The

plaintiff himself offered to get the Room and Poly constructed in the

common passage demolished at his cost and expenses; so that the

plaintiff as well as the defendants will have a better ingress and egress

through the common passage and in order to facilitate easy removal of

the electric meters, wires and pipes. The plaintiff, defendant No.1 and

defendant No.3 further suggested that the defendant No. 1, 2 and 3

may have their electricity meters installed in the bathroom, kitchen

constructed in the portion on the First and Second Floors respectively;

and defendant No.4, 5 & 6 may have their electricity meters installed

on the pillar adjoining the staircase. The defendants readily agreed to

the arrangement proposed by the plaintiff, defendant No.1, 3 and 5

having considered the old age of the plaintiff who is their real uncle. 12. On 07.01.2013, the plaintiff alongwith Sh. Govind Singh,

defendant No.1, 3 & 5 again approached the defendants and asked the

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 14 of 33
 defendants to accompany them with a photograph to the office of a

notary public for executing a written agreement for demolition of the

room and poly and shifting of the electric meters in the respective

portions of the defendants; so that the same can be submitted with an

application in the office of BSES, Delhi. The defendants having no

reason to disbelieve the plaintiff accompanied the plaintiff and signed

wherever they were told to sign. On 07.01.2013 itself the plaintiff and

the defendants got the room and poly demolished. On 08.01.2013, the

defendant no.2 asked the plaintiff to provide him a copy of the

Agreement dated 07.01.2013 so that he could take steps for getting the

electric meter shifted to his portion of the property but the plaintiff

avoided the topic and told defendant No.2 that his friend works in

BSES and that he himself would go the BSES office for filing the

application and the agreement. On various occasions, the defendants

asked the plaintiff to provide them with a copy of the said Agreement

dated 07.01.2013, but the plaintiff always avoided the topic and did

not provide the copy to the defendants. The ancestors of the

defendants had rightly left the area of common passage undivided, in

order to provide free egress and ingress to the residents of the property

and the common passage is being used for more than 50 years without

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 15 of 33
 any interruption and the electric meters are rightly installed on the

wall of the common passage. The defendants have an easementary

right to use the common passage as it is without any division. 13. On 29.05.2013, the defendants were received a Legal Notice

dated 27.05.2013 from the Counsel of the plaintiff whereby calling

upon the defendants to demolish their portion of the property. Upon

perusal of the alleged 'Raajinama', the defendants learnt that the

plaintiff in connivance with the defendants No.1, 3 & 5 had played

fraud upon them and got them to sign the alleged 'Raajinama'. The

defendant No.2 & 4 replied the legal notice through their Counsel

thereby denying the validity of the alleged 'Raajinama' and any

consent being given for demolition of the portion of the property of

the defendants. The consent of the defendants was obtained by

misrepresentation and fraud by the plaintiff and as such the suit

deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone. There was no meeting

of minds at the time of signing of the alleged 'Raajinama' , therefore,

the same is voidable at the option of the defendants and as such the

suit deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone. The defendants had

never give their consent to demolish their portion of the property and

as such the whole story of the plaintif is false and fabricated.

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 16 of 33 14. Written statement was also filed on behalf of defendant No. 5

wherein defendant no.5 disputed and denied the contents of plaint. It

is submitted in the Written Statement that the present suit is not

maintainable in the eyes of law and purely abuse of process of law.

The present suit is liable to be rejected under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC as

the same has not been valued properly and the court fee also not paid

accordingly. The present suit is also barred by Section 41 (h) of

Specific Relief Act as the plaintiff ought to have filed a suit for

recovery, damages and partition. Whereas he is seeking all the relief

in the present suit which is not permissible in law. The plaintiff has

available other efficacious remedy other than to filing present suit.

Raajinama dated 01.01.2013 is not a legal document and does not bear

any force of law. The signatures have been obtained under duress and

under threat and also no witnesses were present. No appropriate

stamp duty was paid and stamp paper was purchased on 02.01.2013. 15. In Replication, the plaintiff has denied the contents of the

Written Statement filed by the defendant No. 2, 4 & 6. Plaintiff has

reiterated & reaffirmed the contents of the plaint. 16. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were

framed on 07.08.2014 by Ld. Predecessor of this Court.

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 17 of 33
 ISSUES: 17. In support of his evidence, the plaintiff examined himself only

as PW1. PW-1/ Sh. Bhim Singh tendered his evidence by way of

affidavit Ex.PW1/A. He has relied upon following documents: 18. No other witness was examined by the plaintiff and PE was

closed vide order dated 07.11.2014. 19. In their defence, the defendants examined only three witnesses

in all. 20. Defendant no.2/ Sh. Dharam Pal examined himself as DW1

and tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.DW1/A and

reiterated and reaffirmed the contents of his Written Statement. He

has relied upon following documents: 21. Defendant no.4/ Sh. Mahender Singh examined himself as

DW2 and tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.DW2/A and

reiterated and reaffirmed the contents of his Written Statement. 22. Defendant no.6/ Sh. Sunder Singh examined himself as DW3

and tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.DW3/A and

reiterated and reaffirmed the contents of his Written Statement. 23. No other witness was examined on behalf of defendant no.2, 4

& 6 and DE was closed qua defendants No. 2, 4 & 6 vide order dated

23.02.2017. Defendant no.1, 3 & 5 have not led their evidence.

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 19 of 33 24. This Court has considered the arguments advanced by Ld.

Counsel for parties and perused the record carefully. 25. Issue wise findings are as under: [(e) non-testamentary instruments transferring or
 assigning any decree or order of a Court or any award
 when such decree or order or award purports or operates to
 create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in
 present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether
 vested or contingent, of the value of one hundred rupees
 and upwards, to or in immovable property:] Provided that
 the [State Government] may, by order published in the

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 21 of 33
 [Official Gazette], exempt from the operation of this sub-
 section any lease executed in any district, or part of a
 district, the terms granted by which do not exceed five years
 and the annual rents reserved by which do not exceed fifty
 rupees. [(1A) The documents containing contracts to transfer for
 consideration, any immovable property for the purpose of section 53A of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of
 1882) shall be registered if they have been executed on or
 after the commencement of the Registration and Other
 Related laws (Amendment) Act, 2001 and if such documents
 are not registered on or after such commencement, then,
 they shall have no effect for the purposes of the said section
 53A.]
 (2) Nothing in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (l)
 applies to-- (i) any composition deed; or (ii) any instrument relating to shares in a joint
 stock Company, notwithstanding that the assets of such
 Company consist in whole or in part of immovable
 property; or (iii) any debenture issued by any such Company
 and not creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or
 extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in immovable
 property except in so far as it entitles the holder to the
 security afforded by a registered instrument whereby the
 Company has mortgaged, conveyed or otherwise
 transferred the whole or part of its immovable property or
 any interest therein to trustees upon trust for the benefit of
 the holders of such debentures; or (iv) any endorsement upon or transfer of any
 debenture issued by any such Company; or (v) [any document other than the documents specified in
 sub-section (1A)] not itself creating, declaring, assigning,
 limiting or extinguishing any right, title or

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 22 of 33
 interest of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards to
 or in immovable property, but merely creating a right to
 obtain another document which will, when executed, create,
 declare, assign, limit or extinguish any such right, title or
 interest; or (vi) any decree or order of a Court [except a decree or
 order expressed to be made on a compromise and
 comprising immovable property other than that which is the
 subject-matter of the suit or proceeding]; or (vii) any grant of immovable property by
 [Government]; or (viii) any instrument of partition made by a
 Revenue-Officer; or (ix) any order granting a loan or instrument of
 collateral security granted under the Land Improvement
 Act, 1871, or the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883; or (x) any order granting a loan under the
 Agriculturists, Loans Act, 1884, or instrument for securing
 the repayment of a loan made under that Act; or
 [(xa) any order made under the Charitable
 Endowments Act, 1890, (6 of 1890) vesting any property in
 a Treasurer of Charitable Endowments or divesting any
 such Treasurer of any property; or] (xi) any endorsement on a mortgage-deed
 acknowledging the payment of the whole or any part of the
 mortgage-money, and any other receipt for payment of
 money due under a mortgage when the receipt does not
 purport to extinguish the mortgage; or (xii) any certificate of sale granted to the
 purchaser of any property sold by public auction by a Civil
 or Revenue-Officer. [Explanation.--A document purporting or operating to
 effect a contract for the sale of immovable property shall

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 23 of 33
 not be deemed to require or ever to have required
 registration by reason only of the fact that such document
 contains a recital of the payment of any earnest money or of
 the whole or any part of the purchase money.]
 (3) Authorities to adopt a son, executed after the 1st day of
 January, 1872, and not conferred by a will, shall also be
 registered. Section 49: Effect of non-registration of documents required
 to be registered
 No document required by section 17 [or by any
 provision of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 ] to be
 registered shall- (a) affect any immovable property comprised therein,
 or (b) confer any power to adopt, or (c) be received as evidence of any transaction affecting
 such property or conferring such power, unless it has
 been registered: ISSUE No.2: ISSUE No.3: 5,00,000/-. It was also agreed that in case of default in paying the fine

by the failing party, he shall have to face a legal action before a

competent court and the expenditures shall also be paid by him only.

Plaintiff in his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A neither

deposed regarding abovesaid facts/ pleas nor he has led any evidence

as to how defendants owed a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- to him. Plaintiff

admitted during his cross-examination that he has not filed any bills

showing the money spent upon demolition of room & poly. Plaintiff

has also not led any evidence how he is entitled for Rs.1,50,000/- as

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 26 of 33
 compensation for demolishing room & poly and for mental

harassment, agony suffered by him as well as litigation expenses of

Rs.50,000/-. b). In view of the aforesaid discussion, plaintiff has failed to prove

Issue No. 3. Hence, it is decided against the plaintiff. Issue No.4 : Defendant no.2 Sh. Dharmpal examined himself as DW1, defendant

no.4/ Mahender Singh examined himself as DW2 and defendant no.6/

Sunder Singh examined himself as DW3. They tendered their

evidence by way of affidavit as Ex.DW1/A, Ex.DW2/A & Ex.DW3/A

respectively. They deposed in their affidavits that on 07.01.2013

plaintiff along with Govind Singh, defendant no.1, 3 & 5 approached

defendant no.2, 4 & 6 and asked them to accompany with a

photograph to the office of Notary Public for executing a written

agreement for demolition of the room & poly and shifting of the

electric meters in the respective portions of the defendants so that

same can be submitted with an application of BSES and they having

no reason to disbelieve the plaintiff accompanied him and signed

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 27 of 33
 wherever they were told to sign. They further deposed that plaintiff in

connivance with the defendants No.1, 3 & 5 had played fraud upon

them and got them to sign the alleged 'Raajinama' which is an

insignificant piece of paper. DW1 during his cross-examination

deposed that there was disagreement between Mahesh and Mahender

over the electricity meter regarding payment of bills and also for the

reason that meters were placed adjacent to each other. On and around

28.05.2012 plaintiff approached all the family members stating that

they should not fight over the electricity meters and the electricity

meters should be shifted in their area of possession. Thereafter, all the

family members along with their senior members of the village arrived

at a family settlement. There was no issue regarding the room and

poly and its demolition. The feud was only regarding payment of

electricity bill and shifting of meters. He further deposed that he has

become aware of the contents of Rajinama Ex.PW1/1 in the evening

of 07.01.2013 when the room and poly were being demolished. He

further deposed that he has signed the Rajinama Ex.PW1/1 without

reading it under the faith that it would be as per terms of settlement.

He further deposed that plaintiff has already sold his share therefore

he cannot enforce the Rajinama Ex.PW1/1. Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 28 of 33 b). DW2 during cross-examination admitted that Mahesh/

defendant no.5 and he got into a dispute in the year 2015 and the

dispute was regarding electricity. The DESU had changed the cable

and the bill which came under his name was for Rs.5,000/-. This will

kept increasing from Rs.5,000/- to 32,000/-. In order to solve the

dispute he got his electricity meter disconnected due to this reason the

electricity supply of Mahesh was also disconnected and the meter

which was in his name was removed by DESU and the dispute ended

when Mahesh was paid Rs.32,000/- to the DESU and their dispute got

resolved. He further deposed that no such Rajinama Ex.PW1/1 was

ever executed on 07.01.2013 and there had never been any settlement

between plaintiff and defendants as mentioned in the Ex.PW1/1. DW3

in his cross-examination admitted that he has signed Ex.PW1/1. He

further deposed that he had not asked anyone to read-over the contents

of Ex.PW1/1 before signing. According to him Ex.PW1/1 was

regarding shifting of meter. c). Record shows that defendant no.2, 4 & 6 have not examined

any other witness to prove that plaintiff, defendant no.1, 3 & 5 have

played fraud upon them to execute Rajinama Ex.PW1/1. Record

further shows that they have not filed any criminal complaint against

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 29 of 33
 plaintiff, defendant no.1, 3 & 5 regarding the fact that their signatures

on Ex.PW1/1 was taken fraudulently by plaintiff, defendant no.1, 3 & 5. Moreover, Rajinama dated 01.01.2013 is an unregistered document.

Therefore, same cannot be received as an evidence of any transaction

affecting such property or conferring any such power. Hence, the same

is not legally admissible/ valid document to show partition of the

common passage between the plaintiff and defendants. d). In view of the aforesaid discussion, this issue does not survive. ISSUE No.5: Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 30 of 33
 examination that Rajinama was executed for seeking partition of

common passage into three portions. He further admitted during cross-

examination that he and defendant no.2 has already sold their portion

of the property. He further admitted that he has filed the present suit

for seeking partition of the common passage. In view of the fact that

plaintiff has sold his portion of the property and the fact that Rajinama

dated 01.01.2013 Ex.PW1/1 is an unregistered document, this Court is

of the opinion that this issue does not survive. ISSUE No.6: Hence they failed to prove this issue. This issue is decided against the

Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 31 of 33
 defendants. ISSUE No.7: ISSSUE No.8: ISSUE No.9: Civil Suit No. 6011/16 Bhim Singh vs. Sube Singh & Ors. Page no. 32 of 33
 Defendant no.2, 4 & 6 in their written statement has taken the plea

that present suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary party as Sh.

Govind Singh son of plaintiff was also a signatory to the alleged

Rajinama but he has not been impleaded as party in the present suit.

Defendant no.2, 4 & 6 in their evidence by way of affidavits

Ex.DW1/A, Ex.DW2/A & Ex.DW3/A neither deposed regarding

abovesaid plea nor they have led any evidence. Hence this issue is

decided against the defendant no.2, 4 & 6. 26. RELIEF

 Plaintiff has failed to prove issue no.1 to 3, therefore he is not

entitled for any relief claimed in the plaint. Hence present suit is

dismissed. No order to cost. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to the Record Room.