A.K.SIKRI, CHIEF JUSTICE

 The appellant was working with respondent No.2 herein,

namely, Stock Holding Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the

Corporation'). He joined the corporation as Junior Executive on 22.03.1999

and after earning few promotions reached to the rank of Assistant Manager.

While working in that capacity, his services were terminated by the

Corporation on 26.10.1999. This order of termination alleged that a

complaint was received from Ms. Sonia Bansal, Assistant Manager,

Panchkula alleging sexual harassment at work place by the appellant and the

allegation was found to be true after investigation. Treating this conduct as

serious violation of the service Manual of the Corporation, his services were

terminated in terms of Clause 4(A), Section-1 Conduct, Discipline and

Penalties of the Service Manual, with immediate effect. LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -2- 2. The appellant filed writ petition under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India questioning the validity of the aforesaid order primarily

on the ground that even when the order was stigmatic in nature which was

passed without following the procedure established by law and violating the

principles of natural justice, inasmuch as no departmental enquiry was held. 3. The Corporation in its reply took a preliminary objection to the

maintainability of the writ petition on the ground that it was a private body

and not an authority or instrumentality or agency of the State under Article

12 of the Constitution of India. This contention is accepted by the learned

Single Judge while dismissing the writ petition stating that the appellant

cannot enforce the contract of service which was admissible only under three

situations and the case of the appellant was not covered by any of those

categories which are as follow:- 4. The learned Single Judge did not decide the issue as to whether

the Corporation could be treated as instrumentality of the State or that a writ

petition could be filed under Article 226 of the Constitution. A perusal of the

impugned order would show that it is essentially dismissed on the ground

that the service of the appellant is not regulated through statutory service

conditions and since the appellant was holding a managerial cadre in the LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -3- corporation, the case does not fall in any of three exceptions to the general

proposition of law that the contract of personal service is not enforceable

and the remedy is only to seek damages. Operative portion of the impugned

order reads as under:- 5. When this appeal came up for hearing on 10.10.2010, we made

prima-facie observations that the findings of the learned Single Judge to the

effect that the appellant was enforcing contractual rights may not be correct

and directed the counsel for the parties to address the arguments on the

question as to whether the Corporation is instrumentality of the 'State' under Article 12 of the Constitution of India or not. 6. The counsel for the parties addressed their arguments on this

aspect and the judgment was reserved on 31.01.2013. However, while

dictating the judgment, it was felt that the issue relating to the enforcement

of contract of personal services also needed full attention. For this purpose

matter was listed on 05.03.2013 and learned counsel for both the parties

have made elaborate submissions on this aspect as well. 7. To sum up, in this appeal, we called upon to decide the

following two issues:- Whether the writ petition filed by the appellant was not
 maintainable as the appellant was seeking enforcement of
 contract of personal service? 8. There is no quarrel about the general proposition of law that

the contract of personal service cannot be enforced. This is, however, a

principle of common law that there are exceptions to this general rule which

have been noted by the learned Single Judge as well and we have already

extracted these three exceptions in para No.3 of our judgment. We are

concerned herewith to Exception No. (iii), which is reproduced herein again,

for the sake of continuity:- 9. What needs to be determined is as to whether this exception

has to be read only when there is violation of statutory Regulations and

Rules and further that the employment has to be in a Corporation which is

established by a specific legislation of the parliament or the State legislation. 10. We have to remind ourselves that the aforesaid exception was

dealt with in the case of Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College,

Shamli and Ors. Vs. Lakshmi Narain and others AIR 1976 Supreme

Court 888. -6- 11. The provisions of Article 12 of the Constitution were

considered narrowly and only those Corporations which are creature of

Statute were brought within the ambit of Article 12 of the Constitution. Corporation Employees Associations Vs. Bhagat Ram, Association of

Clause II Officers, Shyam Lal, Industrial Finance Corporation , 1975(1)

SCC 421. 12. However, over a period of time, the Supreme Court gave a very

broad expression to an 'Authority' and/or instrumentality and agency of the

'State' as occurring in Article 12 of the Constitution. Though this aspect is

considered in detail while discussing issue No. (ii) framed above, at this

juncture, we may point out that even a society registered under the Societies

Act or a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act can come

within the ambit of Article 12 of the Constitution. Therefore, it is not

necessary that the employment has to be in a Corporation established by the

specific legislation of the Parliament or the State legislation. 13. The next facet is as to whether there has to be violation of

statutory regulations to provide exception to the general rule of enforcement

of contract of personal service. Infact, answer to this follows from the first

aspect highlighted above. Naturally, if a particular society or a company can

be 'State' under Article 12 of the Constitution, the Rules framed by it would

not have a statutory character. That would not mean that even when the

employees of such a society or a corporation which is 'State' under Article

12 of the Constitution, are in a position to maintain the writ petition under LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -7- Article 226 of the Constitution and the right is still denied by holding that

the rules are not of statutory character. 14. It is not necessary to delve into this discussion more

elaborately. Inasmuch as in a recent judgment in the case of Gridco Ltd.

and another Vs. Sri Sadananda Doloi and others AIR 2012 Supreme

Court 729, this very aspect has been elaborately dealt with and answered. A

specific question which was formulated therein as question No. (2) was to

the following effect:- 15. After extensively quoting from Shrilekha Vidyarthi Vs. State

of U.P. 1991( 1) S.C.C. 212, Assistant Excise Commissioner and others

Vs. Issac Peter and others 1994(4) SCC 104 and State of Orissa Vs.

Chandra Sekhar Mishra 2002(1) SCC 583 and few other judgments, the

Apex Court summed up the position in the following manner:- 16. From the aforesaid, it becomes clear that the impugned order of

the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition on the ground that the

matter was in the realm of pure contract is not correct. It was necessary for

the learned Single Judge to go into the issue as to whether the Corporation is

a 'State' under Article 12 of the Constitution or not and examine the issue of

maintainability of the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution

from that angle. 17. Thus we proceed to examine the second issue "whether the

Corporation is 'State' under Article 12 of the Constitution or not". 18. Test for determining this issue are now well ingrained by catena

of judgments of the Apex Court. It is now well settled that for the purpose of Article 12 of the Constitution, the body need not only be a statutory body

created by a statute, even a company incorporated under the Companies Act or Society registered under the Societies Registration Act or a trust etc. can

also be covered as a 'State' within the meaning of Article 12 of the LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -9- Constitution. The requirement of law in this respect is that such a company

must be under 'deep' and 'pervasive' control of the Government. 19. A Seven-Judge Bench of the Apex Court in Pradeep Kumar

Biswas v. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology & Others (2002) 5 SCC

111 held, that while examining such an issue, the court must bear in mind

whether in the light of the cumulative facts as established, the body is

financially, functionally and administratively, dominated by, or is under the

control of the Government. Such control must be particular to the body in

question, and must be pervasive. If it is found to be so, then the body comes

within the purview of State within the meaning of Article 12 of the

Constitution. On the other hand, when the control exercised is merely

regulatory, whether under a statute or otherwise, the same would not be

adequate, to render the body a 'State'. 20. The entire law discussed in the aforesaid judgment is

beautifully summed up by the Supreme Court in a recent case titled as Balmer Lawrie and Co. Ltd. and Ors. Vs. Partha Sarathi Sen Roy and

Ors. Civil Appeal Nos . 419-426 of 2004 and Civil Appeal No. 926 of

2013 decided on 20.02.2013. Therefore, we need no more than to find out

from the said judgment narrating as to what Pradeep Kumar Biswas 's case

(supra) decide. 21. The Apex Court, while deciding the said issue placed reliance

upon its earlier judgments in Rajasthan State Electricity Board Jaipur Vs.

Mohan Lal and others , AIR 1967 SC 1857; and Sukhdev Singh and

others Vs. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi and Anr. AIR 1975 LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -10- SC 1331, wherein it was held that such a body must perform certain public

or statutory duties and those duties must be carried out for the benefit of the

public, and not for private profit. Furthermore, it was also laid down that

such an authority is not precluded from making a profit for pubic benefit.

The Court came to the conclusion, that although the employees of the

Corporation may not be servants of either the Union, or of the State, at the

same time, such a company/corporation must not represent the "voice and

hands" of the government. Therefore, this Court in Pradeep Kumar Biswas case (supra), held that financial support of the State, coupled with an unusual

degree of control over the management and policies of a body, may lead to

an inference that it is a State. Additionally, other factors such as, whether the

company/corporation performs important public functions; whether such

public function (s) are closely related to governmental function; and whether

such function (s) are carried out for the benefit of the public, etc. are also

considered. The Apex Court also considered the case of Ramana Dayaram

Shetty Vs. International Airport Authority of India and others AIR

1979 SC 1628, wherein it was held that a corporation can be said to be an

instrumentality or agency of the government therein under certain

conditions, and the same are summarized below: 2. Where the financial assistance of the State is so much as
 to meet almost entire expenditure of the corporation, it
 would afford some indication of the corporation being
 impregnated with governmental character. -11- 3. It may also be a relevant factor ... whether the
 corporation enjoys monopoly status which is State-
 conferred or State-protected. 4. Existence of deep and pervasive State control may afford
 an indication that the Corporation is a State agency or
 instrumentality. 5. If the functions of the corporation are of public
 importance and closely related to governmental
 functions, it would be a relevant factor in classifying the
 corporation as an instrumentality or agency of
 Government. 6. 'Specifically, if a department of Government is
 transferred to a corporation, it would be a strong factor
 supportive of this inference' of the corporation being an
 instrumentality or agency of Government." 22. Two things follow from the above, namely:- 23. Dictionary meaning of word 'pervasive' as per 'Black's

Law Dictionary (9th Edition)-2009 is as under:- 24. Thus, in order to determine the issue, this Court is supposed to

carry out an in depth examination of who has administrative, financial and

functional control over the Corporation and then assess whether the State in

such a case is only a regulatory authority or it has deep and pervasive control

over the Corporation; whether such company is receiving full financial

support from the Government; whether the administrative control over it has

been retained by the State and its authorities; and whether it is supervised,

controlled and watched over by various departmental authorities of the State,

even with respect to its day-to-day functioning. If it is so, then the

Corporation can be held to be an instrumentality of the State under Article

12 of the Constitution (See Virendra Kumar Srivastava v. U.P. Rajya

Karmachari Kalyan Nigam and Anr. AIR 2005 SC 411). 25. Keeping in view the aforesaid test in mind, we proceed to

discuss the structure of the respondent-corporation. 26. It was argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the

respondent-corporation is a Government Company as it was promoted by

public financial institutions like Industrial Development Bank of India, Life

Insurance Corporation of India Ltd., General Insurance Company, IFCI, Unit

Trust of India etc. that too at the initiative of the Government of India. It is

also submitted that 83% of the equity shares of the respondent corporation

are held by the aforesaid government companies/bodies in the following

manner:- -13- IDBI : 18.95%
 IFCI Ltd. : 16.96%
 UTI : 16.96%
 LIC : 14.97% and
 General Insurance Corporation; New India Assurance Corp. Ltd. United India Insurance Company,
 Oriental Insurance Company and
 National Insurance Company : 2.99% each. 27. It was further argued that the respondent corporation is also

controlled by the aforesaid public sector company inasmuch as the Board of

Governors of the Corporation consists of members nominated by the Central

Government amongst the high ranking officers of the aforesaid public sector

undertakings. The Chairman-cum-Chief Managing Director is always

nominated by the Central Government from Industrial Development Bank of

India. The Managing Director-cum-Chief Executive Officer is also taken on

deputation from Industrial Development Bank of India. 28. Learned counsel for the appellants further argued that the

respondent company is even discharging public functions and duties for and

on behalf of the Government of India, inasmuch as it is set up specifically

for E-stamping which is in the nature of Government meant. Referring to

22nd Annual report of the respondent-corporation for the year 2008-09,

Mr. Bajwa pointed out that it is mentioned therein that the respondent

corporation is "Central Record Keeping Agency" for the State Government

for e-stamping and it has implemented infrastructure, security system and

application system for the same". -14- 29. He further pointed out E-stamping website of the respondent-

corporation which has national emblem over it. This website also gives the

following information about the respondent corporation:- 30. It was further submitted that the respondent corporation has

even adopted the Central Government Rules regarding gratuity i.e. Payment

of Gratuity (Central) Rules 1972 for its own employees. Therefore, it has all

trappings of the Government functionary. 31. Mr. Bajwa also referred to Object Clause 26 of the

Memorandum of Association of the respondent-corporation which reads as

under:- 32. It was thus argued that the respondent corporation was set up by

the Government Companies and was discharging government function and

the Government had also deep pervasive control over the functioning of the

respondent corporation as the employees of the IDBI were sent on

deputation to the managerial post of Chairman as well as Managing

Director. 33. Mr. Bajwa further submitted that from the aforesaid functions

of the respondent corporation, in any case, it was clear that it was public

function being discharged by the respondent corporation and therefore,

petition under Article 226 of the Constitution was maintainable against such

a body. For this purpose, he referred to the judgment of the Apex Court in

case Zee Telefilms Limited & another Vs. Union of India and others ,

2005 (4) SCC 649, extensively. 34. Mr. Bajwa also submitted that Calcutta High Court has already

held the respondent-Corporation to be State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution in case Kamal Parekh and another Vs. State of West

Bengal and others 2007(3) CALLT 251. -16- 35. Per-contra, Mr. Patwalia, learned counsel appearing for the

respondents per-contra argued that the tests laid down to decide whether a

particular body is other authority and or instrumentality of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution are not satisfied in the instant case. His

submission was that neither the share capital of respondent No.2 was held by

the Government nor the Government was giving any financial assistance to

the respondent Corporation nor it was enjoying any monopoly status which

is State conferred or State protected nor there was any deep and pervasive

control. He also challenged the statement of the appellant that function of the

Government was public function and closely related to Government

function. Submission of Mr. Patwalia in this behalf was that it was a Public

Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act and regulated by

the provisions of the said Act. No doubt, promoters of the respondent-

corporation were some public sector undertakings but that would not mean

that the respondent corporation also became public sector undertaking. He

pointed out that the Board of Directors was constituted in accordance with

the provisions of the Companies Act . The Managing Director was whole

time Director as per Article 158 of the Articles of Association who was to

hold office for a term not exceeding five years at a time. He further

submitted that the share holding pattern has been changed and present

pattern is as under:- 36. From the arguments noted above, the admitted position which

appears on record is as follows:- 37. In so far as the position stated in sub paras (a) and (b) is

concerned, that by itself would not be sufficient to confer upon the

'Corporation' status of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution. At the

most it suggests that some Public Sector Undertakings and few banks in

private sector like IDBI Bank Ltd., and I.C.I.C.I. Bank Ltd. joined together

to form the 'Corporation'. It was decided to give the entity of a company by

incorporating it under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and

each of these promoters subscribed to the share capital in the Corporation.

Apart from the contribution given by the P.S.Us., in the form of share

capital, there is no financial assistance or aid given either by the Government

at all either directly or even through the said P.S.Us. The Corporation is

administering its affairs in accordance with the provisions of the Indian

Companies Act through its Board of Directors. In any case, no documents

are produced on record to show that the Government is having any control

over the functioning of this Corporation muchless deep and pervasive. In

case General Manager, Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Ltd. Sultanpur, U.P.

Vs. Satrughan Nishad and others 2003(8) Supreme Court Cases 369, the

question arose as to whether Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Ltd. which is a

Cooperative Society registered under the U.P. Cooperative Societies Act,

1965 , would come within the ambit of Article 12 of the Constitution.

Holding that none of the tests applied in that case , the Court entailed the

following discussion:- 38. The submission that this Corporation is only a Central Record

Keeping Agency of the State Governments for e-Stamping and it is a

Government functionary needs to be dealt with some elaboration. In the first

place, it is required to be noted that this is not the only function of the

Corporation and the respondent-corporation is providing financial and LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -21- technical services to its clients. It is generating income from such operations.

E-stamping is only one of the operations. Annual reports and final accounts

for the years 2008-09 placed on record show that the respondent-

Corporation has income from custodial services, depository services,

Commission and brokerage (net) Derivatives clearing services and other

services. The other source of income is interest from government securities

and bonds as well as deposits with banks etc. The Mission Statement of the

respondent-Corporation appearing in the said annual report reads as under:- 39. In this background, let us understand the agency business of

e-stamping assigned to the respondent corporation. E-stamping of property

is an advance method of putting stamps on the documents in contrast with

the conventional stamping. Such stamp papers are obtained from the treasury

by depositing the amount keeping in view the denomination of the stamp

paper which is required on a particular document to be executed. The stamp

papers upto the particular values are sold through stamp vendors as well. It

is a matter of common knowledge that few years ago a scam relating to such

stamp papers was unearthed. Finding that huge quantity of forged stamp

papers was in circulation, it is in order to curb this menace that e-stamping is

evolved as an alternative mode of stamping. Thus, e-Stamping is the

'Revenue's latest On-line and file-service in 'Revenue's On-line Services'

(ROS). Any person registered to use the ROS can use e-stamping to file

stamp duty returns electronically by making on-line payments to Revenue

and to receive a stamping certificate. The methodology adopted is to submit LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -22- an electronic stamping application via the Internet instead of presenting the

original instrument to the Stamp Office. After payment of stamp duty, a

stamp certificate is issued and the instrument is stamped. It is this job which

is outsourced to the respondent-corporation by appointing it as an Agent. 40. The respondent-corporation is thus only an agent for e-

Stamping and it cannot be said that thereby it is discharging any

governmental function or sovereign function. In essence, the respondent-

Corporation is using its information technology to cater to the aforesaid

function and merely because the respondent corporation is appointed as a

'Central Record Keeping Agency' for the State Government for e-Stamping

would not mean that it becomes the instrumentality of the State. 41. The position would have been different had it been a wholly

government enterprise or it was under the administrative control of the State

Government or all the Directors were appointed by the State Government or

from Government Services. No such feature is available here. It is also not a

case that the State Government or the Governor is entitled to issue directives

or instructions from time to time. It also does not meet the test of a

government company defined under Sections 15 and 17 of the Companies

Act, 1956. No matters of policy regarding the corporation or the

management issues are decided by or even the control of the State

Government. As emphasized above, day-to-day business and operations and

decisions in this behalf are taken by the Board of Directors in a totally

independent manner. 42. In the case of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi and others Vs.

V.K.Sodhi and others 2007(15) Supreme Court Cases 136 while holding LPA No. 1308 of 2012 -23- that SCERT is not the State under Article 12 of the Constitution, the Apex

Court made the following observations:- So considered, the Apex Court found that the Government does

not have deep and pervasive control over the working of the SCERT and it

does not have financial control in the sense that once the finances are made

available to it, the administration of those finances was left to SCERT and

there was no further governmental control. The Apex Court held that

SCERT was not State or 'other authority' within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and the very formation of an independent society

under the Societies Registration Act would also suggest that the intention

was not to make the body a mere appendage of the State. 43. As far as the judgment of Calcutta High Court in case Kamal

Parekh 's case (supra) is concerned, it would be relevant to point out that the

question as to whether the respondent-corporation is a State or not never fell

for discussion. The Court proceeded on the premise that the respondent-

corporation is a Government Organization or State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. Therefore, this judgment cannot be cited as a

precedent to decide the issue at hand. -24- 44. It is further argued by Mr. Bajwa, learned counsel for the

appellant that even if it is so the writ petition under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India shall still be maintainable having regard to the

judgment of the Supreme Court in Zee Telefilms Ltd. case (supra).

However, as rightly pointed out by the learned Single Judge, the filing of the

writ petition itself is not the issue. The poser is whether the enforcement of

contract of personal service through the writ petition is possible. Once it is

held that the respondent-Corporation is not a 'State' under Article 12 of the

Constitution, even if it is assumed that this private body is discharging

public duty, the writ petition for enforcing of contract of personal service

would not be maintainable. In Parag Tools Corporation Vs. Shri

C.A.Imanual and others , 1969 IILLJ 479 Supreme Court, the Apex

Court made the following pertinent observations in this behalf:- 36. It was held that appellant company being a non- statutory body and neither a statutory nor a public
 duty was imposed on it by a Statute in respect of
 which enforcement was sought, Therefore, neither was
 the writ petition maintainable, nor could the
 declaration granted by the Division Bench be granted.
 Appeal was allowed." To the same effect is the judgment of the Apex Court in Vaish

Degree College 's case (supra). 45. The issue also arose in the case of Shri Anandi Mukta

Sadguru Vs. V.R.Rudani and others 1989 IILLJ 324 Supreme Court

wherein the Apex Court has held as under:- Technicalities should not come in the way of
 granting that relief under Article 226." 46. Legal position is tersely summed up by Delhi High Court in Vinay Kumar Tyagi Vs. Harijan Sevak Sangh and others 2005(1) S.L.J.

326 (Delhi) in the following manner:- 47. In view of our aforesaid discussion, we hold that the

respondent-corporation is not a State under Article 12 of the Constitution.

Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.