The petitioners are aggrieved of the order dated

 11.02.2014 vide which their application under Order 21 Rule 29 CPC pleading for stay of the proceedings in execution was declined. The facts may be noticed in brief. The respondent-Sanatan Dharam Sabha, Guru

 Daronacharya Mandir, Bhim Nagar, Gurgaon which is a registered

 Society filed a suit for declaration, permanent injunction and

 possession alleging that the predecessor-in-interest of the present

 petitioners (arrayed as defendants in the suit) were unauthorized

 occupants thereof on the basis of collusive decree suffered in their

 favour in the year 1994. It was pleaded that the suit property fell

 within the municipal limits of Gurgaon and decree dated 04.01.1994

 in Civil Suit No. 481 of 1994 passed in favour of defendant No. 1-

 Prabhu Dayal was illegal, null and void. As a consequential relief, Reena 2014.03.18 12:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document chandigarh C.R. No. 1436 of 2014 2 they sought a restraint upon the defendants from raising further

 construction in the suit property and from alienating it. They also

 pleaded for possession. The property was described both on the

 strength of a site plan and revenue record and was stated to be a

 part and parcel of Khasra No. 1318 and 1319 in village Gurgaon. It was pleaded that initially this area which fell in the

 village was now within the municipal limits of Gurgaon and part of

 Bhim Nagar and a temple with ancient idols existed there. It was

 also stated that there was a Dharamshala, a Pond, a School, a Piao

 and some shops. The petitioners who contested the suit as defendants

 stated that Moti Ram son of Bihari Lal, one of the defendants was in

 possession of the property for the last 30 years and had, thus,

 acquired ownership on the basis of adverse possession. After the collusive decree of 1994 suffered by Moti Ram in

 favour of defendant No. 1 i.e. Prabhu Dayal, he proclaimed himself

 as the owner. It was denied that Sanatan Dharam Sabha was a

 registered body, although the existence of temple was admitted. It

 was denied by the petitioners that a temple existed in Khasra No.

 1318 and 1319 and similarly existence of Dharamshala on the suit

 property was also denied but it was admitted that a School was being

 run by one Sh. Ishwar Chand Jhamb, who had filed the civil suit and

 that the income derived from the monthly rent of the shop was being

 used by him for his own benefit. Similarly the allegations of more

 area and construction as alleged in the plaint were also denied. It

 was reasserted that Moti Ram was continuously in possession for the Reena 2014.03.18 12:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document chandigarh C.R. No. 1436 of 2014 3 last 30 years and upon becoming owner by adverse possession, a

 collusive decree was suffered in favour of defendant No. 1-Prabhu

 Dayal. The decree of 1994 was pleaded to be valid and it was also

 stated that the suit is barred under the provisions of Order 2 Rule 2

 and Section 11 CPC. The counter claim was also filed seeking

 injunction to restrain the plaintiffs in the suit from demolishing the

 property. Learned trial Court framed the following issues:- The parties went to trial and the suit was decreed with a

 specific negation of the pleas set up by the defendants. The decree

 of 1994 was held to be bad on account of non-registration and, thus,

 invalidated. The plea of adverse possession was also negated as

 Moti Ram (defendant No. 1) could not disclose as to how and when

 he entered upon the property as claimed by him. Similarly the plea

 of family settlement taken by the present petitioners was also

 negated. If Moti Ram was not the owner as held by the Civil Court,

 then where was the question of his suffering a decree in favour of

 Prabhu Dayal. The judgment of the leaned trial Court was tested upto

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court and was upheld, which led to the filing of Reena 2014.03.18 12:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document chandigarh C.R. No. 1436 of 2014 5 execution by the decree holder. The petitioners who are the legal representatives of

 Prabhu Dayal (since deceased) then filed a civil suit for declaration,

 permanent and mandatory injunction against the Sanatan Dharam

 Sabha, as also with the prayer that the decree passed by the learned

 trial Court affirmed upto the Hon'ble Supreme Court be declared null

 and void and a result of fraud and misrepresentation by not

 disclosing the material facts. Before the Executing Court an application under Order 21

 Rule 29 CPC was also moved praying for stay of the proceedings in

 execution on account of the pendency of the civil suit preferred by

 the present petitioners seeking nullification of the decree in

 execution. The Executing Court has declined the instant application

 where the learned counsel for the petitioners contended that a

 decree obtained by fraud is a nullity and, therefore, such a plea can

 be raised at any point of time, even by filing a subsequent suit. Learned counsel for the petitioners has placed reliance

 on a decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Kiran

 Singh and others vs. Chaman Paswan and others , 1954 AIR (SC)

 340, wherein it has been observed in para 6 as follows:- I have heard learned counsel for the petitioners and have

 perused the material on record. The Court is clearly of the view that the subsequent suit

 filed by the petitioners is obstructive to the cause of justice. Once the

 respondents have a hard earned decree in their favour, which has

 been upheld upto the Hon'ble Supreme Court, there was absolutely

 no occasion for the present petitioners to resort to the filing of the

 suit. Evidently, it is a result of ill advised remedy for which only the

 counsel can be blamed. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shamsher Singh Bedi

 vs. High Court of Punjab & Haryana, (1996) 7 SCC 99 while relying

 upon M.Y. Shareef (AIR 1955 SC 19) had held that a counsel who

 drafts the pleading can not escape his responsibility of the contents

 pleaded therein. A natural corollary is that a counsel who drafts

 pleadings would be aware of the facts of the earlier litigation, which in Reena 2014.03.18 12:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document chandigarh C.R. No. 1436 of 2014 7 this case is evident from the nature of the prayer made in the

 subsequent suit. Even otherwise as per Order 7 Rule 1(j) CPC , it is

 obligatory upon a party filing the pleadings to disclose the factum of

 the earlier litigation between the parties. If the pleas taken up by the present petitioners in the civil

 suit are to be considered, then these were objections which were

 available to them when they were contesting the suit. They did not

 take up the plea of fraud or misrepresentation and the plea that the

 land was shamlat as is being done now. No plea of any allotment in

 family of Moti Ram was ever made but only adverse possession was

 pleaded. They were conscious of the pleadings that the suit

 property originally existed in Khasra No. 1318 and 1319, which was

 specifically set up by the plaintiffs-respondents themselves with a

 further qualification that now the land fell within the municipal limits of

 Gurgaon and was a part of area known as Bhim Nagar. Having

 failed to take up such pleas which the petitioners now urge before the

 Civil Court, maintainability of the subsequent suit would be seriously

 a debatable issue and the only inference that can be derived is that

 the petitioners are interested in obstructing the execution of the

 decree, the consequences of which are deprivation of the property

 which has been in possession of the petitioners since long. This Court in Chander Bhushan Anand vs. Devinder

 Kumar Singla (C.R. No. 582 of 2014) decided on 30.01.2014 has

 also opined that in case the Court concludes upon a perception that

 the filing of the suit and objections is frivolous and obstructive to the

 cause of justice, then in such an eventuality not only the Court will Reena 2014.03.18 12:21 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document chandigarh C.R. No. 1436 of 2014 8 step in to restore the possession of the original claimants/decree

 holder but would also not hesitate to take action against the counsel

 who has given such ill conceived advice and the litigant who

 obstructs the execution of decree on flimsy grounds. The Court has

 also opined that in case such attempts are not thwarted it will lead to

 great unrest in the Society as hard earned decrees would be reduced

 to a mere scrap of paper and it would even erode the confidence of

 the persons in the judicial dispensation system, which would be

 perceived to be unable to deliver and sub serve the cause for which it

 exists. For the purpose of reference the relevant portion of the

 observations made in Chander Bhushan Anand 's case (supra) are

 extracted herein below:- Keeping in view the above observations, the Court directs

 the Executing Court to forthwith execute the decree and restore the

 possession of the suit property to the respondents decree holders by

 ordering police help, but before doing so one opportunity be given to

 the petitioners, if they are willing to restore the possession voluntarily. Issue notice of contempt to Sh. Gopal Sharma, Advocate,

 District Court Gurgaon for 31.03.2014 to show cause as to why the

 proceeding under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against

 him and as to why this matter should not be referred to the Bar

 Council of Punjab and Haryana for taking appropriate action against

 him for giving completely unethical advice, which runs contrary to the

 higher standards of the profession intended to be maintained by the

 counsel. The petition is dismissed. Office is directed to prepare a separate file of Contempt

 Petition and list the same on 31.03.2014.