SB: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Parth Prateem Sahu

 C A V Order 1. Petitioner has filed this writ petition seeking an order

 restraining respondent No.1 from either invoking or encashing

 the bank guarantees. 2. Facts of the case, in brief, are that petitioner on becoming

 successful was awarded contract by respondent No.1 and 2 pursuant thereto two separate Letter of Awards (LOA) bearing

No.03-05/ Marwa/ BOP/T-01/09/2087 dated 25.8.2009 and

No. 03-05/Marwa/BOP/T-01/09/2088 dated 25.8.2009 were

issued to petitioner. LOAs were for the purpose of design,

engineering, manufacturing, shop fabrication, assembly,

inspection and testing at supplier's / sub-contractor's works,

packing, forwarding to site of all equipments / materials for

Balance of Plant (BOP) Package for 2x500 MW Marwa

Thermal Power Project. Total cost of both the works was

Rs.941.8498 Crores and Rs. 691.86 Crores respectively.

Period for completion of work of contract, as per LOAs, was

30 months from the date of LOA. Petitioner could not able to

complete the works awarded within stipulated period and

therefore, on the request of petitioner, time for completion of

work mentioned in LOAs was extended from time to time with

conditions. Trial operation certificate was issued by

respondent No.1 in favour of petitioner in the year 2018.

Thereafter, petitioner entered into supplementary agreement

for Balance of Plant Packages to supply, erect and trial

operate the balance equipments / systems and to provide

services. On 24.1.2023 petitioner wrote letter to respondent

No.1 and requested for release of amount of Rs.129.37

Crores payable to petitioner as also for release of

performance bank guarantees. On 6.3.2023 respondent No.1

wrote letter for invocation of bank guarantees amounting to

Rs.163.37 crores. After getting knowledge of action on the

part of respondent No.1 of invocation of bank guarantees, 3 petitioner filed writ petition before the High Court of Madras

 and obtained an interim order on 27.4.2023, but later on that

 writ petition was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Petitioner

 thereafter filed this writ petition seeking following reliefs:-. 3. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner would submit that

 petitioner company inter alia carries on the power project

 business which provides turnkey EPC and BOP services for

 coal-based Thermal Power Plants and Gas-based Combined

 Cycle Power Plants typically over 100 MW. The company

 executes Turnkey Contracts to supply Balance of Plant

 ("BOP") Equipment, Services and Civil works for Power 4 Generation projects, in which it supply, from a single source,

the Balance of the plant, i.e. items other than the Boiler,

Turbine and Generator. Respondent No.1 issued two separate

LOAs in favour of petitioner for Balance of Plant Package for

2x500 Marwa Thermal Power Project, civil works, coal

handling plant and water. Total cost of project was Rs.941.84

Crore and Rs.691.86 Crores and as per condition of contract,

petitioner submitted two bank guarantees (equivalent to 10%

of total contract value of each contract) in favour of

respondent No.1, total value of which was Rs.163,37,09,800/-

(Rupees One Hundred Sixty Three Crores Thirty Seven Lakhs

Nine Thousand Eight Hundred only). Project got delayed for

the reasons beyond control of petitioner, in particular

attributable to respondent No.1. Respondent No.1 granted

several extensions for completing the works of BOP. After

completion of work, trial operation certificate was issued on

7.8.2018 by respondent No.1. Performance test clearance

certificate certifying flawless performance was also issued.

From the date of issuance of aforementioned certificates, no

dispute was raised nor any notice of actual levy of liquidated

damages or breach of contract was ever sent by respondent

No.1. Commercial operation of both the units of plant was

commenced in the year 2016 (1st Unit from 31.3.2016 and 2nd

Unit from 31.7.2011). Defect liability period, as specified

under Clause 1.30 of the General Conditions of Contract

(GCC) also came to an end. Punch points were attended to.

On 24.1.2023 petitioner sent a notice seeking contract closure 5 and release of bank guarantees as also release of outstanding

 amount which respondent No.1 was liable to pay to petitioner

 against the works done by petitioner under two LOAs issued in

 favour. Outstanding amount is to the tune of Rs.127.29 Crore.

 Respondent No.1 without intimating petitioner, issued letter

 dated 6.3.2023 to respondent No.2 for invocation of bank

 guarantee. Letter is issued without quantifying damages

 allegedly suffered by respondent No.1. Absolutely no reason

 was given for invoking bank guarantees for the contract which

 had been fulfilled and satisfactorily performed. After getting

 knowledge of steps taken by respondent No.1 for invocation of

 bank guarantee, petitioner submitted original application

 before the High Court of Madras. Considering the facts and

 circumstances of case, submission of counsel for petitioner

 therein, the High Court granted interim relief in favour of

 petitioner, however, eventually said original application came

 to be dismissed on the ground that High Court is not having

 jurisdiction to entertain that application. Thereafter petitioner

 filed instant writ petition along with application for grant of

 interim relief and after hearing the parties, this Court granted

 interim relief vide order dated 28.4.2023. 4. It is contention of learned Senior Counsel for petitioner that

 since trial operation certificate was issued, defect liability

 period was over and the contract was deemed to have been

 completed under Clause 13 of GCC, therefore, there was no

 reason or justification on the part of respondent No.1 for 6 invocation of bank guarantees. Bank guarantees issued in

 favour of respondent No.1 by petitioner were performance

 guarantee for faithful performance of entire contract, which the

 petitioner has completed, and therefore, action on the part of

 respondent No.1 in issuing letter to respondent No.2 for

 invocation of bank guarantees is per se illegal and arbitrary. 5. During the course of arguments, learned Senior Counsel for

 petitioner fairly submitted that petitioner has not approached

 this Court making allegation of practice of 'fraud' for invocation

 of bank guarantees, but filed this writ petition on the ground

 that invocation of bank guarantees would cause irretrievable

 injury to petitioner. He contended that petitioner along with

 writ petition has filed profit & loss account to show that

 petitioner company is suffering losses in the business in past

 and if bank guarantees are permitted to be invoked, petitioner

 would not be able to stand and may face huge challenges

 including proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy

 Code, 2016 (for short 'IBC') because respondent No.2-Bank

 will immediately debit account of petitioner by Rs.163 Crore as

 a result of which net worth of petitioner company will become

 negative. 6. He also submitted that action of respondent No.1 is under

 challenge in the proceeding initiated by petitioner under the

 Chhattisgarh Madhyastham Adhikaran Adhiniyam,1983 (for

 short 'the Adhiniyam, 1983') before the Arbitral Tribunal. It is

 yet to be decided as to whether delay in completion of contract 7 is attributable to petitioner or petitioner is entitled for the

 amount of works which petitioner has completed and claimed

 i.e. Rs.129.29 Crore. Permitting invocation of bank guarantees

 pending proceeding before the Arbitral Tribunal will cause

 serious loss to petitioner and therefore, illegal and unjust

 invocation of bank guarantees by respondent No.1 be stayed

 till pending consideration of dispute between the parties

 before the Arbitral Tribunal. He placed reliance on the

 decisions in the case of Gangotri Enterprises Ltd. vs. Union

 of India , reported in (2016) 11 SCC 720; Standard Chartered

 Bank vs. Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd. , reported in

 (2020) 13 SCC 574; Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. Vs.

 Transtonnelstroy Afcons (JV) & ors , reported in 2021 SCC

 Online Mad 5637; KSE Electrical Pvt. Ltd. vs. Project

 Director, Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board , reported

 in 2021 SCC Online Cal 2986; S.S. Chhatwal & Company

 (Contractor) Private Ltd. vs. National Thermal Power

 Corporation Limited (NTPC ), reported in 2022 SCC Online

 Chh 72; Order dated 13.5.2022 in SLP (C) No.855/2022

 ( Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. vs Transtonnelstroy Afcons (JV ); Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. vs. National Hydro

 Electric Power Corpon. , reported in 2023 SCC Online Del. 819. 7. Learned Senior Counsel for respondent No.1 vehemently

 opposed submissions of learned Senior Counsel for petitioner

 and argued that as per contract agreement, petitioner has to 8 complete the awarded works within 30 months from the date

of execution of LOAs. Petitioner failed to complete the works

and accordingly, time was extended from time to time for

completion of works. Extension of time was conditional

specifying that extension of period to complete remaining

contract work is without prejudice to right of respondent No.1

to levy liquidated damages as per provisions of contract.

Extension of time was granted on several occasions and

letters in this regard were also issued based on the

correspondences exchanged between the parties. Letters of

extension of time were issued in the year 2012, 2013, 2014,

2015. Even after grant of extension, the works awarded to

petitioner in the year 2009 pursuant to two separate LOA, is

not completed. In all extension letters, respondent No.1 has

specifically mentioned that extension to complete remaining

works of BOP in the scope is without prejudice to the right of

respondent No.1 to levy liquidated damages, which was never

objected to, by petitioner. Respondent No.1 constituted a four

members Committee for submission of report as to whom

delay is attributable and to determine liquidated damages. Said Committee submitted report mentioning that delay is

attributable to petitioner and amount of liquidated damages is

also shown to be Rs.180.705 Crore, which is more than 10%

of difference amount. He submitted that grant of injunction

against the proceeding of invocation of bank guarantee arising

out of contract is ordinarily not permissible. Interference must

be only in exceptional circumstances, as explained by Hon'ble 9 Supreme Court and discussed in its various decisions.

 Referring to decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of UP

 State Sugar Corporation vs. Sumac International , reported

 in (1997) 1 SCC 568, he submits that Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has considered two grounds/reasons for interfering with

 proceeding of invocation of bank guarantee, which are 'fraud',

 and 'irretrievable injury/irretrievable injustice'. It is also

 contended that mere reference of a company under the Sick

 Industrial Companies Acts (SICA) will not amount to

 irretrievable injustice. In case of Dwarikesh Sugar Industries

 Ltd. vs. Prem Heavy Engineering Works (P) Ltd. , reported

 in (1997) 6 SCC 450, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that

 the Court should restrain from granting injunction in routine

 practice. He next contended that petitioner is having remedy

 under the Adhiniyam, 1983 which petitioner has already

 invoked by filing an application and therefore, no relief, as

 claimed in this writ petition, can be granted to petitioner. 8. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

 documents placed in record. 9. From perusal of pleadings and documents available in record,

 it is appearing that two separate LOAs bearing Nos.03-

 05/Marwa/BOP/T-01/09/2087 and No.03-05/ Marwa/ BOP/T-

 01/09/2088, were issued in favour of petitioner on 25.8.2009.

 Under Clause-5 of LOA, the time for completion of complete

 BOP packages is mentioned as 'thirty months from the date of

 letter of award'. Under Clause 5 (v) it is mentioned that for 10 performance security, as per clause (3) of Section 0.1 (ITB)

 and Clause (34) of GCC, a bank guarantee from any national /

 scheduled Indian bank will be submitted in favour of the

 Owner. Security amount shall be equal to 10% of the value of

 contract, for due and faithful performance of complete

 contract. Under clause 5 (vi), 'liquidated damage' is specified,

 which is in two parts; (a) for delay; (b) for failure to meet

 performance guarantee. Under Clause 5 (vi) (a), value for

 liquidated damages is also mentioned as 'a sum of half

 percentage of price of the packages responsible for delay in

 providing facility indicated in work schedule or half percentage

 per week delay beyond contractual completion of trial

 operation for the complete BOP package, whichever is more

 subject to 10% of total contract price as per clause 2.1 of

 Special Conditions of Contract (SCC). Claim of respondent

 No.1 for invocation of bank guarantee, as submitted before

 this Court, is against liquidated damages for not completing

 the work within time prescribed and also in extended period. 10. Clause 34 of the GCC deals with contract performance

 security. Letters issued by respondent No.1 extending time

 period for completion of contract works by petitioner are

 annexed with reply to writ petition as Annexure R-2. First

 letter was issued in the year 2012 extending period of six

 months from 25.2.2012. Another letter of extension of time is

 dated 4.9.2012. Further extensions were granted vide letters

 dated 22.3.2013, 26.9.2013, 14.9.2014, 01.12.2014, 11 12.05.2015, 14.01.2016, 23.04.2020, 15.07.2020, 06.02.2021

 & 26.06.2021. In all the aforementioned letters, extending

 period of contract, it is mentioned in categorical terms that

 provisional time extension for a period (as mentioned in each

 letter) is hereby granted to complete all the remaining works,

 without prejudice to the right of respondent No.1 to levy

 liquidated damages as per provisions contained in the

 contract. 11. Supplementary agreement, to the contract executed on

 30.9.2009 for the Balance of Plant Package (BOP), was

 executed between the petitioner and respondent No.1 on

 7.8.2018. Clause 'C' of the supplementary agreement deals

 with security for delay and unsatisfactory performance. Sub-

 clause (2) & (3) of Clause 'C' of the Supplementary Agreement

 are relevant and the same are reproduced herein below:- 12. From perusal of the above it is clear that under the

 Supplementary Agreement, petitioner agreed to extend validity

 of existing bank guarantees and together with the

 supplemental bank guarantees. The parties further agreed

 that the owner shall be entitled to recover any damage that it

 may suffer as a consequence of the Contractor's failure to

 perform the contract, liquidated or otherwise, from such bank

 guarantees. It is further mentioned that such encashment of

 bank guarantees shall at no time be construed as limiting the

 damages stipulated in the contract in any manner whatsoever.

 Thus, from the clauses of supplementary agreement it is

 appearing that petitioner entered into agreement with

 respondent No.1 for extending existing bank guarantees and

 further entitling respondent No.1 to recover any damage, from

 such bank guarantees. 13. In view of the above facts of the case, submission of learned

 Senior Counsel for petitioner that the bank guarantees are

 executed for performance of the entire contract only, is not

 sustainable. 14. Coming to next submission of learned Senior Counsel for the

 petitioner that petitioner will suffer irretrievable injury / harm if

 the respondent No.1 is permitted to encash the bank

 guarantees executed by petitioner. 15. Case of the petitioner is that petitioner has filed proceeding

 before the Arbitral Tribunal under the Adhiniyam, 1983, which

 is pending consideration. Claim for damages is still to be

 adjudicated by the Arbitral Tribunal. Perusal of bank

 guarantees which are executed by petitioner and placed on

 record, would show that petitioner guaranteed and undertook

 to pay the Owner, on demand, any and all monies payable by

 the Contractor to the extent of amount mentioned thereunder

 without any demur or protest and /or without any reference to

 the Contractor. Any such demand made by the Owner on the

 bank shall be conclusive and binding notwithstanding any

 difference between the Owner and the Contractor or any

 dispute pending before any Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator or any

 other authority. Meaning thereby, pendency of dispute

 between the parties before any Court, Tribunal, Arbitrator or

 any other authority will not come in the way of respondent

 No.1 to invoke/encash bank guarantees. 16. As discussed above, there is clear mention in the letters

 written by respondent No.1 extending time for completion of

 contract works that the contract executed in the year 2009

 could not be completed, many works were got done on the

 risk and cost etc. upon the petitioner-contractor by respondent

 No.1 engaging third party/person. 17. The law with respect to invocation/encashment of bank

 guarantee is well settled. Interference by the Courts

 restraining the employer to invoke bank guarantee is only in 14 exceptional circumstances, which are (i) fraud; (ii) irretrievable

injury/harm. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of UP Sugar

Corporation (supra) while dealing with invocation of bank

guarantee submitted by company which was already rendered

sick under the Sick Industrial Company Act, held that mere

reference to Sick Industrial Companies Act will not amount to

irretrievable injustice, and observed thus:- 17.Before us, however, in the course of argument,
learned advocate for the respondent urged for the first
time that in this case there would be irretrievable
injustice to the respondent if the bank guarantees are
allowed to be realised because the appellant is a sick
industrial company in respect of which a reference is
pending before the Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction under The Sick Industrial Companies
(Special Provisions) Act, 1985 . The respondent
contends that even if it succeeds before the Arbitrator
it will not be able to realise its claim from the
appellant. The mere fact that a reference under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act,
1985 is pending before the Board, is, in our view, not
sufficient to bring the case in the ambit of the
"irretrievable injustice" exception. Under the scheme
of the said Act the Board is required to make such
inquiry as it may deem fit for determining whether any
industrial company has become a sick industrial
company. Under Section 16 (4) where the Board
deems it fit to make an inquiry or to cause and inquiry
to be made in this connection, it may appoint one or
more person to be special directors for safeguarding
the financial and other interests of the company or in
the public interest. Under Section 17 after making an 16 inquiry, if the Board is satisfied that a company has
become a sick industrial company, the Board may
then decide, by an order in writing, whether it is
practicable for the company to make its net worth
exceed the accumulated losses within a reasonable
time. If this is practicable, then the Board shall give
such company the opportunity to make its net worth
exceed the accumulated losses. Under sub-section
(3) of Section 17 if the Board decides that this is not
practicable within a reasonable time, it may adopt
measures specified in Section 18 and provide for a
scheme for appropriate measures in relation to that
company. There can, therefore, be no presumption
that the company will, in no circumstance, be able to
discharge its obligations. 18.Under Section 22 on which the respondent relies,
where in respect of an industrial company, an inquiry
under Section 16 is pending, or any scheme under Section 17 is under preparation or a sanctioned
scheme is under implementation or when an appeal
under Section 25 is pending, then no proceedings for
the winding up of the industrial company or for
execution, distress or the like against any of the
properties of the industrial company or the
appointment of a receiver in respect thereof can be
proceeded with; and no suit for the recovery of money
or for the enforcement of any security against the
industrial company shall lie or be proceeded with
except with the consent of the Board or, as the case
may be, the Appellate Authority. The respondent
contends that its right to realise its claim, if
established, would be affected by reason of Section
22 of the said Act. There is no material before us to
show that the appellant-company cannot make its net
worth positive. No scheme has been framed under 17 the said Act so far. Even under Section 22 there is no
 absolute bar against any suit for the recovery of
 money. The suit cannot be proceeded with except
 with the consent of the Board or the Appellate
 Authority. Therefore, in an appropriate case, the
 Board or the Appellate Authority is entitled to give its
 consent to such a claim being proceeded with. This is
 not a situation of the kind envisaged in the case of Itek Corporation (supra) where there was no
 possibility whatsoever of recovery of any amount from
 the purchaser. In the present case, there is a good
 possibility of such recovery. In any case, learned
 counsel for the appellant has, on instructions, very
 fairly stated that the appellant- company undertakes
 to earmark the amounts realised from the bank
 guarantees in question for the purpose of recovery of
 claims, if any, which the respondent may ultimately be
 found to be entitled to recover from the appellant. Any
 scheme which the Board may frame under the said
 Act will be subject to this undertaking given by the
 appellant to set apart the amounts realised under the
 bank guarantees in question for meeting any validly
 adjudicated claims of the respondent against the
 appellant under or arising from the said contract. If
 any scheme is required to be framed, the Board shall
 take into account this undertaking, while framing the
 scheme." 18. In case of Dwarikesh Sugar (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has observed as under:- Dealing with the question of fraud it has been held that
fraud has to be an established fraud. The following
observation of sir John Donaldson, M.R. in Bolivinter oil SA
V. Chase Manhattan Bank (1984) 1 All ER 351, are
apposite: (Emphasis supplied)

The aforesaid passage was approved and followed by this
court in U.P. Co-operative Federation Ltd. Vs. Singh consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. [(1988) 1 SCC 174]. 22. The secondly exception to the rule of granting
injunction, i.e., the resulting of irretrievable injury, has to be
such a circumstance which would make it impossible for
the guarantor to reimburse himself, if he ultimately
succeeds. This will have to be decisively established and it
must be proved to the satisfaction of due Court that there
would be no possibility whatsoever of the recovery of the
amount from the beneficiary, by way of restitution. 29. It is unfortunate that the High Court did not consider it
necessary to refer to various judicial pronouncements of
this Court in which the principles which have to be followed
while examining an application for grant of interim relief
have been clearly laid down. The observation of the High 20 Court that reference to judicial decisions will not be of
 much importance was clearly a method adopted by it in
 avoiding to follow and apply the law as laid down by this
 Court. Yet another serious for which was committed by the
 High Court, in the present case, was not to examine the
 terms of the bank guarantee and consider the letters of
 invocation which had been written by the appellant. If the
 High Court had trail the trouble of examining the
 documents on record, which had been referred to bv the
 trial court, in its order refusing to grant injunction, the court
 would not have granted the interim injunction. We also do
 not find any justification for the High Court in invoking the
 alleged principle of unjust enrichment to the facts of the
 present case and then deny the appellant the right to
 encash the bank guarantee. If the High Court had taken
 the trouble to see the law on the point it would have been
 clear that in encashment of bank guarantee the
 applicability of the principle of undue enrichment has no
 application. 32. When a position, in law, is well settled as a result of
 judicial pronouncement of this Court, it would amount to
 judicial impropriety to say the least, for the subordinate
 courts including the High Courts to ignore the settled
 decisions and then to pass a judicial order which is clearly
 contrary to the settled legal position. Such judicial
 adventurism cannot be permitted and we strongly
 deprecate the tendency of the subordinate courts in not
 applying the settled principles and in passing whimsical
 orders which necessarily has the effect of granting
 wrongful and unwarranted relief to one of the parties. It is
 time that this tendency stops." 19. In case of Vintech Electronics vs. HCL Infosystems Ltd.,

 reported in (2008) 1 SCC 544, Hon'ble Supreme Court while 21 considering plea of irretrievable injury or irretrievable injustice

to appellant therein, has observed thus:- 29.There is no dispute that arbitral proceedings are
 pending. The appellant can always get the relief
 provided he makes his case before the Arbitral
 Tribunal. There is no allegation that it would be difficult
 to realize the amounts from the respondent in case the
 appellant succeeds before the Arbitral Tribunal." 20. In the case at hand, the learned Senior Counsel for petitioner

 submitted based on copies of accounts that petitioner

 company suffered losses in past, however, it is not the case of

 petitioner that petitioner will not be in a position to recover the

 amount of bank guarantees if petitioner succeeds in arbitral

 proceeding. Respondent No.1 is the State owned power

 generation company and before taking steps for invocation of

 bank guarantees furnished by petitioner, constituted a four

 members committee to submit delay analysis report and the

 said Committee based on the clauses of agreement and the

 entire facts and circumstances, had held petitioner company

 liable for delay in completion of all BOP packages; assessed

 liquidated damages to the tune of Rs.180.705 Crores relying

 on Clause 2 & 2.6 of SCC. The Committee has also made

 tentative calculation of liquidated damages suffered by

 respondent No.1 due to delay in completion of project / entire

 works. 21. Supplementary agreement between petitioner and respondent

 No.1 was executed on 7.8.2018 in which under Clause 3 the

 parties to agreement agreed that owner shall be entitled to 23 recover any damage that may suffer as a consequence of

 contractor's failure to perform the contract, liquidated or

 otherwise from such bank guarantees. In case of UP Sugar

 Corporation (supra), the arguments raised before the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court that appellant company therein is a

 sick industrial company of which a reference is pending before

 the Board of Industrial Financial and Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 ,

 Hon'ble Supreme Court has not acceded to such a prayer

 discussing the provisions under the Act of 1985. In the case

 at hand, petitioner only on the basis of accounts made

 submission that petitioner company suffered losses. 22. Judgment rendered in case of Gangotri Enterprises (supra),

 which is relied upon by learned Senior Counsel for the

 petitioner, is on different facts. In that case, the bank

 guarantee furnished by appellant therein in relation to contract

 dated 14.7.2006 was sought to be encashed for not

 completing the work of other contract dated 22.8.2005; the

 contract against which bank guarantee was furnished was

 completed well within time, completion certificate was also

 issued and further, the bank guarantee issued was in the

 nature of performance guarantee for due execution of contract

 dated 14.7.2006. In those circumstances, Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has passed the judgment. 23. Reliance placed by learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner

 on the decision in case of SS Chhatwal (supra), is also on 24 different facts, as the Court considering Covid-19 pandemic

 period during which default was committed and taking it to be

 an exceptional circumstance, has passed the order. 24. In the case of Standard Chartered Bank (supra), the point

 for consideration was whether the bank can determine that

 invocation of bank guarantee was justified or not. In such

 circumstance, it was held that once the demand was made in

 due compliance with bank guarantees, it was not open for the

 appellant bank to determine as to whether invocation of bank

 guarantee was justified so long as the invocation was in terms

 of the bank guarantee. Demand once made would oblige the

 bank to pay under the terms of the bank guarantee and it is

 not the case of the appellant Bank that its defence falls in any

 of the exception to the rule of case of fraud, irretrievable

 injustice and special equities. 25. In case of Hindustan Construction Company ltd. (supra),

 the Court considering the arbitral award in favour of petitioner

 therein, counter claim of respondent therein was dismissed

 and consequentially bank guarantees given during the

 contract cannot be said to have been given in perpetuity even

 for the period after the completion of project and adjudication

 of claims / counter claims between the parties. Further, no

 prima facie case made out in light of the awards passed in

 favour of the Petitioner therein and in the said facts of the

 case, the order was passed restraining the respondent from

 invoking / encashing bank guarantees. 26. Other decisions relied upon by learned Senior Counsel for

 petitioner i.e. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (supra) and KSE

 Electrical Pvt. Ltd. (supra), are also on different facts.

 Hence, all the decisions relied upon by learned counsel for

 petitioner being distinguishable on facts are of no help to the

 petitioner. 27. For the foregoing discussions and in light of the law laid down

 by Hon'ble Supreme Court, I do not find any good ground to

 grant relief, as prayed for by petitioner in this writ petition. The

 writ petition lacks merit and is accordingly dismissed. No order

 as to costs. Sd/- (Parth Prateem Sahu)
 Judge

roshan/-