1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No.187 of 2021
 Reserved on: Feb 3, 2021. . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Judge

 Whether approved for reporting?1NO
 ____________________________________________________________________
 For the petitioner: Mr. Vipin Pandit, Advocate.
 For the respondent: Mr. Rajinder Dogra, Sr. Addl. Advocate
 r General, with Mr. Anil Jaswal, Additional
 Advocate General and Mr. Vikrant

 Chandel, Deputy Advocate General. For the allegations of fraud and cheating, the petitioner is

 apprehending arrest came up before this Court under Section 438 CrPC, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. Earlier, the petitioner had filed a petition under Section

 438 CrPC before the concerned Sessions Court. However, vide order

 dated 15.01.2021 Ld. Additional Sessions Judge-I, Shimla, HP,

 dismissed the petition on the ground that there are chances of the 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the
 judgment? petitioner being absconding and that the petitioner is a habitual

 offender. . 3. Para 9 of the bail petition and status report mentions the

 following criminal history: f) FIR No.264 dated nil, registered under Sections 420 , 406 of
 IPC at police station Ambala City. 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner are that the

 police officials of SV and ACB Khalini, Shimla has received complaint

 from complainant Kamal Kishor to the effect that the bail petitioner

 alongwith other co-accused, Aman Kumar, Subey Singh Chaudhary,

 Sohan Lal, Pradeep @ Hunny Vimal Kalra @ Sukhbir, Ranjeet Singh

 Kang cheated the complainant and got purchased vehicle in his name

 by saying that they will engage his vehicle in a company and

 dishonestly got the said vehicle financed in the name of complainant. It is averred that at the time of delivery of the vehicle from the

 company the petitioner alongwith aforesaid co-accused came to Solan

 and Shimla in their own vehicle and told the owner of the vehicle to

 engage his vehicle in the company and also paid some money to the ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:53 :::HCHP 3 owner of the vehicle to make the payment of installment and also

 paid the margin money to the company of the vehicle and took the

 . vehicle with them. Thereafter, the said vehicles were sold in Punjab

 and Haryana to some other persons through co-accused Vimal Kalra

 and Ranjit Singh Kang by hatching conspiracy in order to cheat the

 complainant, committed forgery for the purpose of cheating the

 complainant. Based on these allegations, the Police registered the

 FIR mentioned above. 5. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that during

 interim bail, the petitioner joined the investigation, and the

 investigator has recovered majority of the amount attributed to him. He further argues that one of the complainants has agreed to settle

 disputes, and thus, the custodial investigation would serve no

 purpose whatsoever. The incarceration before the proof of guilt would

 cause grave injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. While opposing the bail, Mr. Rajinder Dogra, Ld. Sr.

 Additional Advocate General says that although some recovery has

 taken place, but the accused is a habitual offender. The alternative

 contention on behalf of the State is that if this Court is inclined to

 grant bail, such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 7. The investigator has recovered some of the money and

 the accused has made some kind of settlement with one of the

 victims. This shows that accused is willing to make up the loss of the

 money. The conduct of the accused, coupled with the facts and ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:53 :::HCHP 4 circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner makes out a case

 for release on bail. . 8. The possibility of the accused influencing the

 investigation, tampering with evidence, intimidating witnesses, and

 the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care of by imposing

 elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal, (2020) 5

 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually,

 subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive

 conditions. In Sumit Mehta v. State of N.C.T. of Delhi , (2013)15

 SCC 570, Para 11, Supreme Court holds that while exercising power

 Under Section 438 of the Code, the Court is duty-bound to strike a

 balance between the individual's right to personal freedom and the

 right of investigation of the police. While exercising utmost restraint,

 the Court can impose conditions countenancing its object as

 permissible under the law to ensure an uninterrupted and

 unhampered investigation. 9. In Sunny Kapoor v State of HP, CrMPM 2168 of 2020,

 (Para 30 & 31), this Court after considering the relevant judicial

 precedents observed that in reckoning the number of cases as

 criminal history, the prosecutions resulting in acquittal or discharge; or when Courts quashed the FIR; the prosecution stands withdrawn,

 or Prosecution filed a closure report; cannot be included. The

 criminal history must be of cases where the accused was convicted,

 including the suspended sentences and all pending First Information ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:53 :::HCHP 5 Reports, wherein the bail petitioner stands arraigned as an accused. While considering each bail petition of the accused with a criminal

 . history, it throws an onerous responsibility upon the Courts to act

 judiciously with reasonableness because arbitrariness is the

 antithesis of law. Although crime is to be despised and not the

 criminal, yet for a recidivist, the contours of a playing field are

 marshy, and graver the criminal history, slushier the puddles. 10. Reasons for superseding criminal history are the effort of

 the accused to settle the matter with the victims. 11. Given the above reasoning, coupled with the peculiar

 facts and circumstances of the case, the Court is granting bail to the

 petitioner, subject to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over

 and above and irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in

 chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal

 Pradesh, CrMPM No. 1734 of 2020, after analysing judicial

 precedents, this Court observed that any Court granting bail with

 sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish surety

 bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to

 another. 13. Given above, the petitioner shall be released on bail in

 the FIR mentioned above, subject to his furnishing a personal bond of

 Rs. Twenty-five thousand (INR 25,000/-), and shall furnish two

 sureties of a similar amount, to the satisfaction of the Investigator. Before accepting the sureties, the Attesting Officer must satisfy that

 in case the accused fails to appear in Court, then such sureties are

 . capable to produce the accused before the Court, keeping in mind the

 Jurisprudence behind the sureties, which is to secure the presence of

 the accused. 14. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid

 personal bond and fixed deposit(s) for Rs. Twenty-five thousand only

 (INR 25,000/-), made in favour of "Chief Judicial Magistrate, District

 Shimla, H.P.," r a) The arresting Officer shall give a time of ten working days to

 enable the accused to prepare a fixed deposit. b) Such Fixed deposits may be made from any of the banks
 where the stake of the State is more than 50%, or any of the
 stable private banks, e.g., HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak

 Mahindra Bank, etc., with the clause of automatic renewal of
 principal, and liberty of the interest reverting to the linked
 account. c) Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the
 account of the petitioner and need not be a single fixed deposit. d) If such a fixed deposit is made in physical form, i.e., on
 paper, then the original receipt shall be handed over to the
 concerned Court. e) If made online, then its printout, attested by any Advocate,
 and if possible, countersigned by the accused, shall be filed, and
 the depositor shall get the online liquidation disabled. f) The petitioner or his Advocate shall inform at the earliest to
 the concerned branch of the bank, that it has been tendered as
 surety. Such information be sent either by e-mail or by
 post/courier, about the fixed deposit, whether made on paper or
 in any other mode, along with its number as well as FIR
 number. g) After that, the petitioner shall hand over such proof along
 with endorsement to the concerned Court. h) It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to choose
 between surety bonds and fixed deposits. It shall also be open
 for the petitioner to apply for substitution of fixed deposit with
 surety bonds and vice-versa. . i) Subject to the proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the
 entire amount of fixed deposit along with interest credited, if
 any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor(s). Such Court
 shall have a lien over the deposits up to the expiry of the period

 mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, or until discharged by
 substitution as the case may be. 15. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed

 acceptance of the following and all other stipulations, terms, and

 conditions of this bail order: 16. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or

 commits any offence where the sentence prescribed is more than

 seven years or violates any condition as stipulated in this order, the

 State may move an appropriate application before this Court, seeking

 cancellation of this bail. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall continue to

 remain in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section

 437-A of the CrPC. 17. Any advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose

 presence the petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall

 explain all conditions of this bail order, in vernacular and if not

 feasible, in Hindi. 18. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:53 :::HCHP 9 violating fundamental, human, or other rights, or causing difficulty

 due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s), the

 . petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after

 taking cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial

 Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to

 modify or delete any condition. 19. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the

 rights of the Police or the investigating agency from further

 investigation per law. r 20. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an

 expression of opinion on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial

 Court advert to these comments. 21. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court

 believes that the accused shall also reciprocate through desirable

 behavior. 22. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order
 for furnishing bonds, and any Advocate for the Petitioner can
 download this order along with case status from the official web page
 of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer

 wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its
 authenticity and may download and use the downloaded copy for
 attesting bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned
 above. Anoop Chitkara,
 Vacation Judge. February 04, 2021
 (R. Atal) ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:53 :::HCHP