SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. (ORAL) 1. The instant application under Section 438 read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been filed on
 behalf of applicant seeking grant of anticipatory bail in case arising out
 of FIR bearing No. RC221-2023-E0005 registered by Police Station
 E.O. III, Central Bureau of Investigation ('CBI') , New Delhi for
 offences punishable under Sections 120B / 420 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860 (' IPC ') and Sections 66C / 66D of the Information Technology
 Act, 2000 (' IT Act '). 2. Briefly stated, it is the case of the prosecution that a written
 complaint dated 08.02.2023 was received from one Shri Kuldeep
 Kumar Hemrom, working in CBI, Head Office, New Delhi as constable
 alleging that on 03.02.2023 he had booked a courier from DSK Xpress
 Services (authorised associates of Blue Dart and DHL), New Delhi for
 Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh in the name of one Archana Lakara and he had
 been further handed over a receipt of the alleged courier bearing
 Shipment Number as 81124210963. It is further alleged that since the
 complainant had booked the courier, he had been checking its status
 regularly using the shipment number given to him. However, it is
 alleged that on 05.02.2023, when the complainant had checked the
 status on the website i.e., 'www.trackcourier.io', he had seen that the
 status of the courier was marked as 'mislocate'. So, the complainant
 had tried to find out Blue Dart's customer care number online. After
 that, he had found a mobile number bearing no. 8*******71, listed as
 Blue Dart's customer care number. It is further alleged that the
 complainant had then called on the said number and the person who had
 answered his call had said he was from Blue Dart and that his senior
 would get in touch to help and assist the complainant to resolve the said
 issue. Later, the complainant had got a phone call from another mobile
 number i.e., 9*******7, claiming to be from Blue Dart, who had
 addressed complainant's issue about the mislocated courier. The said
 person had asked the complainant to pay Rs. 2 to locate the said courier,
 but the complainant did not make any transaction for the same. After
 that, the complainant had received a call from mobile number
 8********4 and the caller had introduced himself as one Sanjay Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 2 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 Kumar, allegedly a Senior Executive Officer from Blue Dart, who had
 informed the complainant that he would be sending a link via SMS to
 him and had further asked him to enter his details after clicking on it.
 Thereafter, he had received a link from 'https://courierpay.buzz/', via
 SMS and as instructed by the senior executive officer he had clicked on
 the said link and had further filled out the form wherein had given his
 bank name, mobile number, an amount of Rs. 2, and a UPI PIN for his
 SBI account number. Upon enquiry from the alleged officer i.e. Sanjay
 he had said that the said payment was under the name Ashok Ram and
 after the payment went through, Sanjay had further sent the
 complainant a message and had asked him to forward it to a number he
 had provided. Then, the complainant was further told that he had
 located the alleged courier. Further as alleged, to double check the same
 the complainant had again tracked his courier using the shipment
 number. However, on checking it still showed as 'mislocate'. So, the
 complainant had again called Sanjay Kumar on mobile number
 8*******4 and had told him that his courier was still mislocated and
 the same had not been found yet, reverting to the said call Sanjay
 Kumar had assured the complainant that it would be delivered by
 evening itself. It is further alleged that on 08.02.2023, when the
 complainant had checked his SBI bank account statement using the
 YONO app, he had discovered that on 06.02.2023 an amount of Rs.
 99,963/-, and on 07.02.2023, an amount of Rs. 98,965/- had been
 debited from his account. The said transactions were not authorized by
 him and it is alleged that the said individuals who pretended to be Blue
 Dart representatives and used the mobile numbers are responsible for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 3 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 these transactions. Thereafter, the present RC/FIR was registered by the
 CBI. Further during investigation, it has been revealed from analysis of
 the call data records ('CDRs') of the mobile numbers given by the
 complainant that the said communication was between the complainant
 and the accused persons and the location of the accused persons was
 from Bihar. Further, upon analysing the bank accounts to which the said
 amount was transferred the same had revealed that the said amount was
 withdrawn from HDFC Bank ATM located in Bihar. Based on the
 information from a reliable source, the CBI team had arrived at the
 HDFC Bank ATM in Nawada and apprehended co-accused Amit
 Kumar in the act of withdrawing money from an account that wasn't his
 own. 3. Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant/accused
 argues that the present applicant was not named in the FIR and that he
 has no role in the commission of the said offence. It is argued that the
 present applicant/accused has been falsely implicated in the present
 case and that he is not even a beneficiary in the alleged cheated amount.
 It is further argued that the applicant has no criminal antecedents.
 Moreover, the main accused i.e., Amit Kumar has been granted bail by
 the learned Trial Court vide order dated 04.07.2023. It is further stated
 that the only role attributed to the present applicant is that he had
 exchanged calls with the main accused Amit Kumar and that the present
 applicant has been made an accused only after the disclosure statement
 of co-accused Amit Kumar. It is also submitted that the present
 applicant is ready to join investigation and fully cooperate with the
 investigation as and when called by the investigating agency. Thus, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 4 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 applicant be enlarged on pre-arrest bail. 4. Per Contra, Learned Special Public Prosecutor for the CBI,
 strongly opposes the present bail application and submits that during
 further investigation it has been revealed that the present
 applicant/accused used to provide ATM cards along with PINs to the
 main accused Amit Kumar so that he could then withdraw money from
 various ATMs including the ATM from where the main accused had
 been apprehended by the CBI. It is submitted that the investigation into
 the present matter is at a very early stage and it is important to unearth
 the modus operandi and the individual roles of each accused.
 Furthermore, there exists an organized syndicate of cyber criminals, of
 which the present applicant is a participant and if he is enlarged on pre-
 arrest bail, he may further commit cybercrimes and can potentially
 target more individuals. Thus, in order to effectively investigate the
 case, the investigating officer requires his custodial interrogation.
 Therefore, the present bail application of the applicant/accused be
 dismissed. 5. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of both the
 parties and has perused the material placed on record. 6. This Court notes that the prosecution's case revolves around a
 series of fraudulent activities involving the booking of an alleged
 courier and unauthorized transactions from the complainant's bank
 account. The said events were unfolded when Shri Kuldeep Kumar
 Hemrom, a constable at the CBI Head Office in New Delhi, had lodged
 a written complaint dated 08.02.2023, alleging that on 03.02.2023, he
 had booked a courier through DSK Xpress Services, an associate of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 5 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 Blue Dart and DHL, from New Delhi to Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, in the
 name of one Archana Lakara. He had then received a receipt with a
 shipment number i.e., 81124210963, for the said courier. Upon
 regularly checking the status of the courier online, the complainant had
 found it marked as 'mislocate' on 05.02.2023. Attempting to resolve the
 issue, the complainant had sought Blue Dart's customer care number
 and had called a mobile number allegedly belonging to Blue Dart's
 customer service. Subsequently, he had then received a call from
 another number, also claiming to be from Blue Dart, asking for a
 payment of Rs. 2 to locate his courier. However, the complainant did
 not make any transaction. Later, he had again received a call from a
 person identifying as Sanjay Kumar, allegedly a Senior Executive
 Officer from Blue Dart, who instructed him to click on a link sent via
 SMS and provide his details. Following Sanjay's instructions, the
 complainant had filled a form on the website 'https://courierpay.buzz/'
 and had also made a payment of Rs. 2 using his SBI account. Despite
 the payment, when the complainant had checked the courier's status
 again, it still showed as 'mislocate'. The complainant had then
 contacted Sanjay Kumar, who assured him that the parcel will be
 delivered through courier by evening. However, on 08.02.2023, the
 complainant had discovered unauthorized debits of Rs. 99,963/- and Rs.
 98,965/- from his SBI bank account. Subsequently, the CBI had
 registered a case based on the written complaint received and upon
 investigation it had been revealed that these transactions were traced to
 Bihar through CRD analysis and bank account analysis. It was further
 revealed that the communication between the complainant and the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 6 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 accused originated from Bihar. The CBI team had then located an
 HDFC Bank ATM in Nawada, Bihar, where co-accused Amit Kumar
 was caught withdrawing money from an account not belonging to him.
 As far as the role of present applicant/accused is concerned it has been
 alleged that upon interrogating, the co-accused Amit Kumar had
 revealed that the present applicant/accused is his associate and that the
 present applicant/accused had provided him with various ATM cards
 and PINs to facilitate cash withdrawals from the said accounts including
 the one at HDFC Nawada Branch, Bihar. Further the said version
 corroborates the CDRs of the present applicant and co-accused Amit
 Kumar as the same indicate continued communications between the
 applicant and the co-accused during the relevant period of time. 7. In this Court's opinion granting bail to the present
 applicant/accused could jeopardize the ongoing investigation which is
 still in its nascent stage. If the present applicant is enlarged on pre-arrest
 bail there is a possibility that the same might hinder the investigation as
 crucial evidence is being collected and to uncover the entire scam. To
 sum up, the prosecution's case entails a chain of events starting from
 the booking of a courier, fraudulent communication with impersonators
 posing as Blue Dart representatives, unauthorized transactions from the
 complainant's bank account which needs investigation including
 unearthing the involvement of organized cybercriminals in perpetrating
 these crimes. Custodial interrogation of accused will be required for
 abovementioned purposes. 8. Given the intricate nature of the fraudulent activities involved
 and the possibility of a wider network, this Court is not inclined to grant Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 7 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51 pre-arrest bail to the present applicant/accused. Thus, the present bail
 application is dismissed. 9. However, nothing expressed herein above shall tantamount to
 opinion expressed on merits of the case during trial. 10. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J

 MAY 2, 2024/ns
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed BAIL APPLN.1496/2024 Page 8 of 8 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.05.2024 15:20:51