The aforesaid appeal has been filed by the assessee
against the impugned order dated 18th May, 2018 passed by
Ld. CIT(Appeals) Meerut for the quantum of assessment
passed u/s 143(3) for the Assessment Year 2015-16. The
assessee is mainly aggrieved by addition of Rs.1918892/-
which was claimed as Long-Term Capital Gain by the
assessee on sale of shares holding it to be a bogus
transaction. 2. The facts in brief are that assessee is an individual
carrying on business of handloom clothes and also received
salary income from M/s. Ashlar Commodities Pvt. Ltd, Noida.
In the return of income, assessee has shown long-term capital I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 2 gain of Rs.19,18,892/- on sale of shares of M/s. ALPS Motor
Finance Limited which was claimed as exempt u/s.10(38).
The Ld. Assessing Officer, first of all, observed that Director of
Investigation, Kolkata had unearthed racket of bogus entries
of Long-Term Capital Gain and has discussed in detail the
modus operandi operated by the operators in penny stock.
The entire general modus operandi has been discussed from
pages 1 to 6 of the assessment order and from there he
deduced that, since assessee had also shown long term
capital gain, therefore, she is also one of such beneficiary of
accommodation entry. Vide order sheet entry, AO required the
assessee to submit various documents to prove the
genuineness of the purchase and sale of shares, in response
to which assessee filed the following details: - 19,18,892.68 as Long-Term Capital Gain on the sales of36000
 shares which are exempted from tax. 2. As far as purchase / investment in above shares is
 concerned, it is stated that a cheque no-545679 was given
 from PNB, Khair Nagar Branch, Meerut for Rs. 1,25,000/- on
 03.07.2013 which can also be seen from the transaction
 statement. 3. That the assessee maintains Saving Bank Account no-
 0320000109282245 with PNB, Khari Nagar, Branch, Meerut. Photocopy of the same is being enclosed herewith. As far as
 details of debit /credit entries are concerned, it is stated that
 the narrations given in the statement are self explanatory and
 needs no further explanation. However, the details of a
 particular entry, if required by your good self shall be very
 gladly." 3. Thereafter, Assessing Officer asked detailed queries (as
incorporated in pages 6 and 8 of the assessment order) and in
compliance thereof, assessee submitted as under: - Ltd. certifying the sale of shares. (v) Payment of sates consideration received by the assessee
 through account payee cheques. (vi) STT has been duty paid on the sale transaction in the sum of Rs.
 19240/- (vii) Assessee's Demat Account reflecting the inflow of shares in
 Demat account and outflow thereon pursuant to sale. (viii) The purchase /sale of shares has been made as per the rules
 framed by SEBI and others. 3. Computation of Taxable Income showing the actual amount of
 LTCG exempted u/s.10(36) amounting to Rs. 18,82,892/. 4. Photocopy of purchase bills (u/s. 44AD) for the year under
 review. In view of the above facts and circumstances, it is requested to your
 kind honour that the proceeds from the sale of shares is a Long-Term
 Capital Gain which is also exempted from tax and should be treated
 as exempted income of the assessee. The same view has also been
 expressed by ITAT "D" BENCH; KOLKATA in case of Sh. Dolarrai
 Hentani V/s Income Tax Officer, Ward-34(3), Kolkata has also been
 submitted to your kind honour which also has similar and
 circumstances." 3.1. Assessee has also relied upon catena of judgements
which has been noted by the Assessing Officer at page 9 of
the assessment order. 4. However, the Assessing Officer rejected the assessee's
contention and held that assessee has not furnished the bank
statement of the sellers from whose shares of ALPS Motor
Finance Limited were purchased from the period 1st April
2013 to 13th January, 2014; and assessee could not provide
the identity of the person to whom shares were sold and their
copies of bank statement. He also referred to statement of
one, Shri Sanjay Vora, who was Regional Director of East
zone of M/s. Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers Ltd., which I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 5 was one of the entities utilized for providing entry of bogus
long-term capital gain of M/s. ALPS Motor Finance Limited.
From this statement which runs from pages 10 to 21 of the
assessment order, in question no. 60, AO has incorporated a
list of several companies including the ALPS Motor Finance
Limited, whether the scrips of these companies were in the
nature of Penny stock for bogus long-term capital gain, to
which he affirmed. Again, the assessee rebutted the Assessing
Officer's observation in the following manner: - (iii) We have sold 36000 shares of ALPS Motor Finance Ltd. It is not
justified to conclude that our 36000 shares are included in 62350
bogus LTCG shares trading out of total trading of 2,66,55,451
shares. Bogus LTCG trading is merely 0.23% out of total trading of
shares (Report of 5 Months taken) of ALPS Motor Finance Ltd. (iv) It is also pertinent to note that Sh. Sanjay Vohra has not
mentioned name of assessee anywhere in his statement. (v) Statement of Sanjay Vohra has not mentioned the period of
trading of Bogus LTCG. Shares of M/s ALPS Motor Finance Ltd. are
also doing trade in Bombay Stock Exchange as on date. Copy of
BSE trading is enclosed as Annexure 'B'. Assessee has no I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 7 connection with Anand Rathi shares & Stock brokers Ltd/Sh.
 Sanjay Vohra. 3. It is not justified in disallowing the assessee's claim of exemption
 under section 10(38) of the Act by concluding that the transactions
 of the assessee resulting in LTCG on sale of shares were bogus
 relying on the statements of any person recorded by Investigation
 Wing wherein that person accepted to have provided
 accommodation entries of various natures including LTCG. No
 adverse inference should be taken against the assessee on the
 basis of untested statements without allowing opportunity of cross
 examination." 5. However, Assessing Officer treated the long-term capital
gain as bogus and unexplained and added the same under
the deeming provisions of section 68. He has also referred to
various decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, including
judgement of CIT vs Durga Prasad More , 82 ITR 540 and
Sumati Dayal vs. CIT , (1995) 214 ITR 801 (SC) and catena of
other judgements. 6. Ld. CIT (A) after incorporating the entire assessment
order and reiterating the same reasoning adopted by the
Assessing Officer, held that not only the purchase of share is
questionable but also the long-term capital gain claimed by
the assessee is not genuine and same has rightly been added
u/s 68. 7. I have heard the rival submissions, perused the relevant
findings given in the impugned orders as well as materials
and evidences referred to at the time of hearing. The assessee I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 8 had purchased 12500 equity shares of Rs.10/- each of 'ALP
Motor Finance Ltd.' for sum of Rs.1,25,000/-, directly from
ALPS Motor Finance Ltd. The shares were purchased vide
cheque no.545679 dated 3rd July, 2013 and the said shares
were allotted vide certificate no. 3075096, bearing distinctive
nos. 5583421 - 5595920. This is evident from pages 70 to 71
of the paper book, which is acknowledgement slip for
purchase and letter of allotment issued by ALPS Motor
Finance Ltd. Thereafter, the assessee got the shares
dematerialized in his Demat account with National Security
Depository Limited (NSDL) on 3rd July, 2014. It is evident
from the NSDL statement appearing at pages 73 onwards,
that assessee had sold these shares through BSE through
registered broker, M/s Ashlar Securities Pvt. Ltd. on 26th
August, 2014 at a market value of Rs. 53.40 - 53.45, after
deducting service tax and other charges. Net payment of Rs.
19,21,573.67/- was credited to the bank account of the
assessee. As per the contract note and the transaction details,
it is seen that assessee's shares were sold on different lots
and the trade time for sale was 14:22 to 14:25. The
transaction of sale of shares is further evidenced from
contract note appearing at pages 82 to 83 of the paper book
and also the statement of Demat account of NSDL. Apart from
that, from the perusal of the bank statement, it is seen that
assessee has paid amount of Rs.1,25,000/- on 3rd July, 2013
for purchase of shares and the sale proceeds have been
received on various dates. Not only that, from the perusal of I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 9 the Demat account, it is seen that the assessee was a regular
investor in shares. Ld. Counsel for the assessee before us
submitted that, following documents and evidence goes to
prove the genuineness and transaction of the sale and
purchase of the shares which are as under: - nor there is any probe or material relating to bank account of
entities involved that purchase or sale by assessee has been
done through cash deposits; or there is any order from
SEBI/BSE where genuineness of the scrip has been doubted.
When no such inquiry or material has been found or gathered
that assessee is beneficiary or was involved in any such scam
of accommodation entry, then it is very difficult to discard the
assessee's explanation and documents. 11. Here, in this case, the shares have been directly
allotted by the company and the payment has been made
through account payee cheque duly disclosed by the assessee
in the earlier year and said purchase of shares is evidenced
not only from the bank statement but also by the allotment of
shares. Thus, possession of the shares is not in doubt at all
because same is also reflected in Demat account maintained
with NSDL. Not only that, the sale of shares is also evidenced
from transaction undertaken through registered stock at a
specific trade time in BSE and after the sale of shares, the net
receipts have been credited to the assessee's bank account.
Hence, the nature of the transaction is clearly purchase and I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 12 sale of shares and the source of the credit, from the material
facts on record are quite evident that it is from the sale of
shares. Once, no material information has been brought on
record to convert these transactions then it is very difficult to
treat the sale proceeds of the shares as unexplained cash
credit to be added under deeming provisions of section 68.
There is no finding or any whisper in the impugned orders
that some unaccounted money has been routed through some
accommodation entry provider for getting the bogus long-term
capital gain. 12. One very important fact brought on record by the ld.
counsel is that, in the case of assessee's husband, Shri
Vishal Kumar Vijay, this Tribunal on precisely similar facts
and scrip and identical reasoning given by the Assessing
Officer and ld. CIT (A) had deleted the said addition, vide
order dated 28th November, 2018 passed in ITA
No.1714/Del/2018. The Tribunal after examining the
transaction statement of stock broker, contract note for sale
of shares, transactions statement of Demat account,
statement of account from the brokers, and also most of other
documentary evidences had held that the transaction was
genuine. The Tribunal had also rejected the reliance placed by
the AO on the statement of Shri Sanjay Vohra holding that no
opportunity to cross-examination was given which is in
violation of the principle and ratio laid down by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timbers Industries
Ltd. vs Commissioner of Central Excise , in Civil Appeal I.T.A. No.5025/DEL/2018 13 No.4228 of 2016. Thus, when there is a concurrent finding on
 similar set of facts in the case of assessee's husband, then as
 a matter of precedent same needs to be followed. In any case,
 independently also in view of the material facts on record as
 discussed above, I do not find any reason to sustain the
 action of the AO without any contrary material brought on
 record by the Assessing Officer to hold that the said
 transaction is not genuine. Accordingly, the addition made by
 the Assessing Officer u/s 68 is directed to be deleted and
 assessee's claim for exemption u/s 10(38) on long term
 capital gain is allowed. 13. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 8th February,
 2019. sd/- [AMIT SHUKLA]
 JUDICIAL MEMBER
DATED: 8th February, 2019
Pkk
Copy forwarded to: