% 13.03.2024

 CM APPL. 15397/2024 (For Exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to just exceptions. 2. Application is disposed of. W.P.(C) 3733/2024 & CM APPL. 15396/2024 3. The present petition has been filed seeking setting aside of the Show
 Cause Notice dated 3rd February, 2024 along with letter dated 29th February,
 2024 issued by the respondent no. 1- IDBI Bank Limited to the petitioners
 who are the Suspended Board Directors of the company in question, i.e.,
 Twenty First Century Wire Rods Ltd.- respondent no. 3. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/03/2024 at 22:46:07 4. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that by
 way of the aforesaid communications, the respondent bank has sought to
 classify the account of respondent no. 3- company as 'Fraud' and take
 subsequent actions under the Reserve Bank of India ("Frauds Classification
 and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select FIS") Directions, 2016
 ("Master Directions"). 5. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner has drawn the
 attention of this Court to the Show Cause Notice dated 3rd February, 2024, to
 submit that the said Show Cause Notice is only a procedural formality, as
 the same is devoid of any accompanying supporting documents. 6. Learned Senior Counsel submits that earlier by order dated 15th May,
 2023 passed in W.P.(C) 7614/2022, the declaration of 'Fraud' was set aside
 in the earlier proceedings. He submits that subsequent thereto, the aforesaid
 Show Cause Notice dated 3rd February, 2024 has been issued. He submits
 that in response to the Show Cause Notice dated 3rd February, 2024, reply
 dated 18th February, 2024 was submitted by the petitioners wherein, it was
 stated as follows: 7. Learned Senior Counsel further draws the attention of this Court to
 the reply dated 5th March, 2024 written by the petitioners to the respondent- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/03/2024 at 22:46:07
 bank, wherein following documents have been requested by the petitioners: 8. The Bank is hereby formally requested to provide the following
 documents, among others, without limitation: 1. Sanction Letters along with related terms and conditions. 2. List of documents and terms and conditions of disbursement
 to be complied pre and post sanction. 3. Copy of Third Party Agreement retained with Bank created
 at the time of mortgage Taloja land 4. Copy of the original title document retained by the Bank. 5. Mortgage deed of the Property with the Bank 6. Title clearance certificate/report conducted by Bank at the
 time of the mortgage 7. Report of valuers for valuation conducted by the Bank time
 to time 8. Copy of the Site inspection reports conducted by Bank
 officials pre and post sanction 9. Site inspection report conducted by Bank officials from time
 to time till SARFESI notice issued by the Bank 10. Correspondence of Bank with MIDC before Mortgage 11. Consent letter issued by MIDC to Bank on August 17, 2012
 and August 12, 2013 to M/s Nikhil Alloys for creation of
 mortgage. 12. Letters submitted Bank to MIDC for confirmation of title and
 creation of mortgage, 13. Reply Letters of MIDC addressed to Bank before creation of
 Mortgage 14. Loan Documentation Vetting Report by Bank advocate /
 lawyer at the time of disbursement of loan. 15. Alleged MoU- Sale deed and Power of Attorney of Mr. Ilyas
 Patel 16. MoU/Offer Letter - Settlement with Noble Marine Metals
 Company WLL, Resolution Applicant and approvals by
 Competent Authority including Board of Directors regarding
 the same. Valuation report of property determining fair
 market value and stressed sale value 17. Sale Deed registered between M/s Nikhil Alloys and M/s
 Platinum Properties 18. Subsequent Title Investigation Report by banks empanelled
 Advocate obtained from time to time. 19. Copy of mandatory visit reports by bank officials conducted

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/03/2024 at 22:46:08
 from time to time post creation of mortgage. 20. Copy of Stamp duty Paid/Challan during the time of creating
 mortgage. In consideration of the aforementioned principles and in strict adherence
 to the Circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India, we emphatically
 demand the Bank, in conformity with the binding judgment of the
 Honourable Supreme Court in Rajesh Agarwal (supra), to expeditiously
 furnish all pertinent documents, books of accounts, or any other
 relevant records that form the basis for identifying alleged instances of
 Fraud including but not limited to the documents as enumerated above.
 This demand is made to the Bank with the expectation that it complies
 promptly and comprehensively. This provision of essential documents is imperative to afford the
 Suspended Board of Directors an unequivocal opportunity to respond
 effectively. The Suspended Board of Directors anticipates receiving these
 documents without delay, allowing them a reasonable four (4) weeks to
 thoroughly scrutinize and prepare their detailed response. Furthermore,
 the provision of a personal hearing is sought, providing a platform to
 articulate detailed objections and present their defence against the
 allegations post receipt of all the documents relied upon by the Bank.
 This request is made with the firm expectation of full cooperation from
 the Bank to uphold the principles of fairness, transparency, and due
 process of law. It is explicitly communicated that no adverse actions or decisions should
 be pursued by the Bank until the Suspended Board of Directors of the
 Company has been afforded a fair and meaningful opportunity to be
 heard and present their case. The Suspended Board of Directors
 emphasizes their intent to forcefully defend their case with extreme vigor,
 aiming to ensure a just and unbiased resolution to this matter.
 A copy of this reply has been retained by our offices for record.
 xxx xxx xxx"