1. First Bail Application under Section 483 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha
 Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter referred to as 'BNSS'), seeking Regular Bail in
 FIR No. 57/2023 under Section 409 , 420 and 120B Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (hereinafter referred to as ' IPC '), PS Economic Offence Wing, Delhi has
 been filed on behalf of the Applicant. 2. Briefly stated, a joint Complaint was filed by Mrs. Rakhi Anand, w/o
 Mr. Mukesh Kumar Anand, r/o SE-256 Shastri Nagar, Ghaziabad, Uttar Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 1 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 Pradesh and other complainants. Pursuant thereto, FIR No. 57/2023 was
 registered Section 409 , 420 and 120B IPC at PS Economic Offence Wing,
 Delhi. 3. As per the Complaint, it was alleged that agents/ business leaders of
 M/s Axis E-Corp Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter 'M/s Axis') approached and
 induced Complainants to invest in Grocery Stores under the brand name "E-
 Store India" promising that the Company would provide material for the
 stores and assured lucrative returns and commissions. 4. It was further alleged that M/s Axis was operated through several
 sister concerns, including M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. The Applicant,
 Shamshad Ahmad, alleged to be a Director and shareholder in M/s Vedic
 Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd., was accused of alluring and inducing victims by making
 false promises and portraying a picture of high returns on investments. 5. The Applicant was arrested on 11.06.2024 on the allegation that he
 had not cooperated with the investigation and was allegedly evading the
 process. The Applicant has submitted that the initial summons had been
 issued at an old address. Upon valid service at his current address, he fully
 cooperated with the authorities and was taken into custody during the course
 of investigation. 6. The Chargesheet was filed on 29.08.2024, followed by the filing of a
 Supplementary Chargesheet on 25.11.2024. 7. The Applicant was granted Regular Bail by the learned ACJM, Delhi
 vide Order dated 24.01.2025, observing that the case was based primarily on
 documentary evidence already secured and that there was no material to
 suggest any risk of flight, tampering with evidence or previous criminal Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 2 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 antecedents. It was further observed that the Applicant had remained in
 custody for a considerable period and had strong roots in society. 8. Thereafter, the Complainant, Mrs. Rakhi Anand, filed an Application
 seeking cancellation of bail before the learned ASJ and the bail was
 cancelled vide Order dated 23.04.2025. 9. The Applicant has filed the present Regular Bail Application on the
 ground that the learned ASJ had failed to appreciate facts and position of
 law and had erroneously passed the Order based on conjectures and
 surmises, while material aspects had not been considered. 10. Further, the learned ASJ had erred in cancelling the bail on
 speculative grounds, without any material change in circumstances, and
 contrary to the settled legal principles, i.e. that bail once granted ought not to
 be cancelled unless there is a misuse of liberty, violation of conditions,
 tampering with evidence, influencing of witnesses, or any act prejudicial to
 fair trial. 11. The Applicant has complied with all the conditions while he was
 enlarged on Bail. There has been no allegation of breach, tampering or
 obstruction of justice against him. 12. The Applicant had a limited and non-operational role in M/s Vedic
 Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. confined solely to overseeing procurement of stocks
 related to medicines and cosmetics. He had no involvement in the
 management, financial affairs, or investor dealings of the Company, which
 were exclusively handled by other Directors. The Investors' Agreements
 were executed solely with M/s Axis, with which the Applicant had no
 association, ownership, or managerial role. 13. Further, the figure of Rs. 118 crores, as mentioned in the
 supplementary Reply of the Investigating Officer and relied upon by the
 learned ASJ, is an unverified and unsupported claim. 14. As per the Chargesheet, the alleged financial involvement specifically
 attributable to M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. with which the Applicant is
 associated, is only Rs. 2.85 crores. The Complainants and the prosecuting
 Agency have projected arbitrary and inconsistent figures ranging from Rs.
 50 crores to Rs. 500 crores, without placing any credible, substantiated, or
 verifiable evidence on record. Further, no forensic audit, expert financial
 assessment has been filed to support the said allegations. Thus, the reliance
 placed on such uncorroborated assertions of Complainants without any
 documentary or forensic basis, would be legally untenable. 15. Further, the learned ASJ has erroneously observed that "several shell
 companies were created wherein the amount procured from victims was
 systematically transferred and withdrawn/ utilized." However, as per the
 Chargesheet, the said Companies had ongoing commercial dealings with
 M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. These include legitimate business transactions
 for the supply of goods and services. 16. The learned ASJ had further observed that the possibility of the
 Applicant being complicit in the GDS Coin Scheme in Dubai, could not be
 ruled out. The said observation is speculative and unsupported by direct
 evidence. The allegations pertaining to the GDS Coin Scheme concerned the
 co-accused Mr. Faizan Ali Khan and there is no material on record linking
 the Applicant to the said Scheme. The Applicant cannot be held vicariously
 liable for the independent actions of the co-accused. 17. The learned ASJ failed to consider the limited role of the Applicant,
 the documentary nature of the evidence, and the overarching constitutional
 guarantee of personal liberty. Further, of the 493 complainants identified,
 only 152 have come forward thus far, and despite the lapse of nearly two
 years, only a main Chargesheet and one Supplementary chargesheet, have
 been filed. It is an admitted position of the prosecution that any further
 evidence, if recovered, was documentary in nature and already stood
 secured. 18. The learned ASJ failed to record any specific or compelling purpose
 for the Applicant's continued detention. It is a settled principle of law that
 judicial custody must serve a legitimate and defined purpose. 19. The Applicant has already undergone more than ten months of
 judicial custody and continued incarceration in a case based primarily on
 documentary evidence where investigation as against the applicant stands
 substantially completed, would serve no valid legal purpose and is an
 arbitrary curtailment of liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 20. Significantly, that bail granted to similarly situated co-accused
 persons, has not been cancelled. No Application for cancellation has been
 filed against them, and they continue to remain on bail despite facing
 identical allegations and being at the same stage of trial. 21. The learned ASJ has erroneously observed that the co-accused who
 were granted bail, were not the Directors of either of the Companies and the
 role alleged qua them was different than that of the Applicant. It is
 submitted that the mere fact of designation as 'Director' cannot, in the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 5 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 absence of specific evidence of managerial control or financial decision-
 making, constitute a valid ground to deny parity. 22. The Applicant has been granted bail in other connected cases arising
 from similar allegations, including bail granted by the Hon'ble Uttarakhand
 High Court and by the learned CJMs in Bangalore and Hyderabad,
 demonstrating that he does not pose any risk of absconding, tampering with
 evidence, or committing any further offence. 23. Chargesheet has not been filed against either Mr. Faizan or M/s Axis
 E-Corp Solutions Pvt. Ltd., which amounts to non-prosecution of the
 principal accused. Further, no investigation has been conducted into the
 alleged erasure or removal of records or digital data. Thus, the learned ASJ
 has erred in observing that the possibility of tampering with evidence cannot
 be ruled out. 24. The Applicant had continued to comply with all bail conditions,
 however, the learned ASJ had erroneously proceeded to cancel the bail
 granted to the applicant vide Order dated 23.04.2025. 25. Status Report has been filed on behalf of the State. It is stated that
 M/s Vedic Ayurcare Health & Retail Pvt. Ltd. was involved in business of
 medicine and supplied their products in grocery stores maintained by M/s
 Axis. 26. It is stated that the two Companies had common Directors. In M/s
 Axis, the Directors are Mohd. Faizan Khan, Nazima Khan (wife of Mohd.
 Faizan Khan), Mukesh Kumar Tyagi, while in M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health &
 Retail Pvt. Ltd., the Directors are Mukesh Tyagi, Mohd. Faizan Khan, Urooj
 Ali Khan and Shamshad Ahmad, the Applicant. 27. During the investigation, it was found that 493
 Complaints/Agreements from victims/complainants from different part of
 India, had been received. Statements of 230 complainants have been
 recorded so far containing similar allegations against the alleged Directors
 of M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd and M/s Axis. 28. On 11.06.2024, the Petitioner, who is a Director of M/s Vedic
 Ayurcure Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd., having 26% shareholding in this
 Company, was arrested. 29. During his interrogation, he informed that the Directors of the alleged
 Companies, i.e., Faizan Khan, Mukesh Kumar Tyagi, Urooj Ali Khan and
 Nazima Khan had collected amounts/funds from victims/Complainants on
 the pretext of a Multilevel Marketing Scheme, with M/s Axis for opening
 Grocery Store and M/s Vedic Ayurcare Health & Retail Pvt. Ltd for
 medicine. They failed to fulfill their promises of good returns and fled from
 their available addresses after closing their business. Applicant Shamshad
 Ahemad further disclosed the names of agents i.e. Zafar Maqsood Khan,
 Sharfarj, Gopal Singh Rawat, Ashfaq Ali, Rohit Jain, Dhyan Singh Bhangari
 and Sanjay Singh Bholey who were working as main/active agents in the
 said Companies. 30. Thereafter, 03 more accused persons namely Zafar Maqsood Khan,
 Ashfaq Ali and Gopal Singh Rawat were arrested in the case and
 Chargesheet against them, was filed in the Ld. Trial Court. 31. Further raids were conducted on the houses and known addresses of
 accused persons namely Rohit Jain, Sharfraj, Sanjay Singh Bholey and
 Dhyan Singh Bhangari. Non-Bailable Warrants were issued against the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 7 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 aforementioned accused persons by the learned Trial Court. Accused Rohit
 Jain, Sharfraj and Sanjay Singh got anticipatory bail from this Court. 32. M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Axis, being
 run by Mohd. Faizan Khan, had the same registered address. 33. M/s Axis was running the Multilevel Marketing Scheme for grocery
 stores, with the minimum investment starting from 25 lakhs. In return, they
 would open a store in the investor's city in the name of E-Store India
 wherein goods worth Rs. 25 lakhs of rack product etc., were given. The
 investors would get returns of Rs. 1 lakh per month till 36 months and 5% of
 the sales of that store was given to the investors, and discounts were
 available for those who used Vedic Ayur Cure IDs. 34. The Applicant had provided IDs to customers in a different scheme on
 their investment by inducing them with promise of higher returns and
 incentives, as per the chain system. Users of the ID could show anyone to
 doctors who camped weekly at the outlets and same IDs could be used for
 the purchase of medicines for a certain amount and any balance amount
 would be deposited in the wallet of the ID holder. Similarly, there were
 other schemes in which investments would be deposited in the wallet and
 discount coupons would be issued. 35. Certain leaders and agents in these Companies, would sit in the
 Company office, and posed as company employees in order to mislead
 people regarding the Scheme. They allegedly lured people to join the
 Company by making false promises, and in return, received a hefty
 commission in cash, gifts, and bank accounts from the Company. 36. It was alleged that these persons were aware that the Companies did
 not have the necessary permission to run the Multilevel Marketing Scheme,
 and in collusion with others, intentionally and falsely induced many people
 to invest in the company. 37. In order to divert funds from both Companies, several other
 Companies had been formed, where the Authorized Signatory was either one
 of these persons or someone close to accused persons. Some of the
 Companies which were used to divert funds are M/s Wonder Style India
 Private Limited, (hereinafter 'M/s Wonder Style') M/s Colourzone Media
 Private Limited, and M/s Cyber Valley India Private Limited (hereinafter
 'M/s Cyber Valley'). 38. As per the disclosure statement of the Applicant, he was also the
 director of M/s Wonder Style and M/s Cyber Valley, and got the amounts
 from M/s Vedic Ayurcare Health & Retail Pvt. Ltd. 39. During investigation, it was revealed that M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health
 & Retails Pvt. Ltd., operated through its director i.e. the Applicant, who was
 a majority shareholder and main Director and Authorized Signatory in M/s
 Wonder Style and M/s Cyber Valley. Notices under Section 91 / 160 Cr.P.C.
 were issued to the Directors of the said Companies. The Directors stated that
 they were working as employees and received salaries in their accounts. 40. M/s Wonder Style was related to Cloth Store, which would
 manufacture and sell in E-Store, being run by M/s Axis E-Corp Solutions
 Pvt. Ltd. It is stated that Rs. 21.5 Lakhs had been transferred to A/c No.
 921020030804524 in the name M/s Wonder Style. Bank account No.
 921020030804524 of M/s Wonder Style was also frozen. 41. M/s Cyber Valley is related to IT work. During the course of
 investigation, it was revealed that Rs. 70,75,000/- were transferred to the
 account of M/s Cyber Valley. Bank accounts bearing No. 921020030804500
 and 164005001040 of M/ s Cyber Valley, were frozen. 42. It is stated that there is documentary evidence that the Applicant had
 visited Dubai along with all other leaders of the Company on the expenses
 of the alleged Company. 43. The Applicant was arrested on 11.06.2024. It is stated that 14 FIRs
 had been registered against these two Companies, namely M/s Axis and M/s
 Vedic Ayurcure Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd. and their Directors including the
 Applicant. 44. The other accused Directors of the companies, being Urooj Ali Khan,
 Mukesh Kumar Tyagi, and Nazima Khan have been declared absconders by
 the learned Trial Court. Proceedings under Section 82 C.r.PC have been
 initiated against the absconding Director, accused Mohd. Faizan Khan.
 Further, during the course of investigation, Red Corner Notices ('RCN')
 have been issued against above alleged directors. 45. The State has strongly opposed the grant of bail to the Applicant on
 the ground that the Applicant, Director/shareholder of M/s Vedic Ayurcure
 Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd. collected huge amounts from
 Complainant/victims through the Multilevel Marketing Scheme. 46. The Applicant was directly associated with the day-to-day business
 activity of the alleged Companies. Further, during the investigation, a total
 of 494 complainants/victims have been identified so far. Notices were issued
 to all victims out of which 147 victims have been examined. 47. The total amount collected from these Complainants/victims come to
 be more than Rs. 119 Crore. Further, more Complaints are still being
 received in the case. 48. It is stated that M/s Axis and M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health & Retails
 Pvt. Ltd. had more than 82 bank accounts to collect the public money, and
 all the bank accounts have been frozen. 49. Further, during investigation the Applicant fled from India to Dubai
 with other accused Directors of the M/s Axis and M/s Vedic Ayurcure Health
 & Retails Pvt. Ltd. Subsequently he returned to India and was arrested in the
 case. 50. The other co-accused and Directors of the alleged Companies are still
 at large and presently in Dubai, against whom RCN proceedings have been
 initiated. 51. The Main Chargesheet has been filed against the Applicant before the
 learned Trial Court and Supplementary Chargesheet in respect of
 siphoning/diverted and misappropriation of funds from alleged M/s Vedic
 Ayurcure Health & Retails Pvt. Ltd. to their sister Companies. 52. The Applicant may influence witnesses, if he is released on bail. He
 may even travel abroad and jump the bail. 53. In view of aforesaid grounds, the bail application of the Applicant/
 Shamshad Ahmad is strongly opposed. 54. The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the ten Complainants,
 has placed reliance on the Status Report filed by the State and the
 Application for Cancellation of Bail, which form part of the record. She Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 11 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 submitted that the role of the Applicant had been adequately stated in the
 Status Report. 55. She further submitted that there were arbitration and mediation
 proceedings which took place between some of the Complainants and the
 accused persons, and the cheques so issued to the Complainants, have been
 dishonored. She further submitted that the two Companies, i.e. M/s Axis and
 M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. had been operating out of the same office
 space. 56. Further, the Applicant had been operating two accounts, which were
 used to transfer amounts from M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. to the tune of
 Rs.1.85 crores and Rs. 25 lakhs, the latter amount having been allegedly
 transferred to his wife's account. She further submitted that M/s Vedic
 Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. was concerned with the Marketing Schemes in the
 Multilevel Marketing Scheme. 57. In response, the learned Counsel for the Applicant has submitted that
 the settlements had been made through the authorised Representative Zafar
 Khan. He submitted that M/s Axis and M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. were
 not sister concerns and further, M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. was not
 concerned with the Marketing Schemes. 58. He further submitted that co-accused Mohd. Faizan Khan, was the
 Authorised Signatory. Further, it was denied that the transfer of amount was
 made to his wife's account. The said amount was salary being credited to the
 account, which was a joint account of himself and his wife. 59. He further submitted that the Applicant was not a flight risk. He had
 already submitted his passport and had never threatened any witness. Submissions heard and record perused. 60. Essentially, the Applicant has filed the present Regular Bail
 Application under Section 483 BNSS, seeking regular bail in FIR No.
 57/2023 under Section 409 , 420 and 120B IPC, PS Economic Offence
 Wing, Delhi. 61. The Applicant had been granted bail by the learned CJM on
 24.01.2025. Thereafter, the Complainant had filed an Application seeking
 cancellation of bail before the learned ASJ, which was allowed on
 23.04.2025. 62. Evidently, the factors that weighed with the Ld. ASJ to cancel the Bail
 was the number of complainants, who were cheated and the involvement of
 about Rs.118 crores. It was noted that the relevant material had not been
 considered and even if only a handful of complainants had appeared before
 the learned Trial Court, the Court ought to have considered all the 493
 affected persons. 63. Further, the learned ASJ had observed that the actual quantum was yet
 to be identified, which was calculated at Rs. 118 crores. Further, the learned
 ASJ has observed that investments had even been made in cash, and the
 same had not been considered by the Investigating Officer. 64. Pertinently, the factual situation of the Complainants had not changed,
 and no further circumstances were deciphered so as show any further need
 for arrest. The enormity of the financial fraud and cheating has been duly
 examined. Though more than 400 Complainants who have been identified,
 around 152 have joined the investigation in nearly 2 years. 65. It was observed by the Ld. ASJ that there was allegation regarding the
 alleged erasure or removal of records or digital data. However, Main
 Chargesheet, and the Supplementary Chargesheet do not contain any
 allegation suggesting that the Applicant destroyed, concealed, or caused the
 disappearance of material evidence, and the Applicant has not been charged
 under Section 201 IPC. 66. The allegations against the Applicant are in regard to his operational
 role in M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. and his involvement in the
 management, financial affairs, or investor dealings of the Company.
 However, the investors' Agreements were executed solely with M/s Axis, in
 which the applicant had denied his association, ownership, or managerial
 role. 67. The finding of the learned ASJ that the Applicant and co-accused are
 not similarly placed since the co-accused persons were not Directors, is not
 sustainable. In State of Haryana v. Brij Lal Mittal and Others , (1998) 5 SCC
 343, it has been held that "Simply because a person is a director of the
 company it does not necessarily mean that he fulfils both the above
 requirements so as to make him liable. Conversely, without being a director
 a person can be in charge of and responsible to the company for the
 conduct of its business." 68. Thus, it would not be correct to hold that the co-accused who were
 granted bail, had a different role as was alleged qua them, merely on the
 basis of the fact that they were not Directors in either of the Companies
 without specific evidence regarding their role. This again, would be a matter
 of trial. Further, the bail granted to the co-accused persons has not been Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 14 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30 cancelled, and no application for cancellation of bail has been filed against
 them. There are no circumstances demonstrated, which justify cancellation
 of Bail of the Applicant. 69. Even the submissions regarding the figure of Rs. 118 crores which
 was mentioned in the Supplementary Reply filed by the Investigating
 Officer, would be a matter of trial and cannot be considered at this stage.
 The contention regarding other Companies having ongoing commercial
 dealings with M/s Vedic Ayurcure Pvt. Ltd. and having legitimate business
 transactions for the supply of goods and services, would also face the same
 fate. 70. There is no assertion that the Applicant had violated any bail
 conditions imposed by the learned CJM. Further, the Applicant has been
 granted bail in other connected cases arising from similar allegations,
 including bail granted by the Hon'ble Uttarakhand High Court and by the
 learned CJMs in Bangalore and Hyderabad, which allegations pertain to the
 same business activities and period, as in the present case. 71. In the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in P vs. State of M.P. ,
 (2022) 15 SCC 211, it has been observed that, "in ordinary circumstances,
 this Court would be loathe to interfere with an order passed by the court
 below granting bail but if such an order is found to be illegal or perverse or
 premised on material that is irrelevant, then such an order is susceptible to
 scrutiny and interference by the appellate court." 72. In the recent case of Ajwar vs. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC 768, the
 factors for recalling a Bail once granted, were enumerated thus: 73. However, the present matter pertains to offences under Section 409 , 420 and 120B , and any further evidence, if any, would be primarily
 documentary in nature. Furthermore, the bail once granted ought not to be
 cancelled. 74. In view of the aforesaid, it is observed that the conduct of the
 Applicant was not one that warranted the cancellation of bail without any
 material change in circumstances, misuse of liberty, violation of conditions,
 tampering of evidence, influencing of witnesses or any act prejudicial to fair
 trial. 75. The Applicant has undergone more than ten months of judicial
 custody. Further, Chargesheet and Supplementary Chargesheet have been
 filed. The continued incarceration of the Applicant would serve no valid
 legal purpose and amounts to an arbitrary curtailment of liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 76. Considering the totality of circumstances, the Applicant/Shamshad
 Ahmad is admitted to Regular Bail on his furnishing a Personal Bond in the
 sum of Rs.1,00,000 (Rupees one lac Only) with one surety in the like
 amount to the satisfaction of learned Trial Court and on the following
 conditions: 77. Accordingly, the Bail Application along with pending Applications, if
 any, is disposed of. (NEENA BANSAL KRISHNA)
 JUDGE
 NOVEMBER 14, 2025
 RS Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 1879/2025 Page 18 of 18 Signed By:VIKAS ARORA Signing Date:14.11.2025 18:14:30