In this appeal filed by the assessee, it assails an order dated

29.09.2017 of ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions), Chennai,

denying it the registration sought u/s.12AA of the Income Tax Act,

1961 (in short ''the Act''). :- 2 -: ITA No.2565/2017. 2. Grounds taken by the assessee are reproduced hereunder:- 3. Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that main object of

the assessee was to impart financial education and awareness

amongst the investor community. As per the ld. Authorised
 :- 3 -: ITA No.2565/2017. Representative, ld. CIT erroneously concluded that assessee's activity

would fall only under ''education''. Further, as per the ld. Authorised

Representative, though the ld. CIT examined various limbs of

u/s.2(15) of the Act, he did not accept the contention of the assessee

that it was an organization pursuing activities which advanced

objects of general public utility. Submission of the ld. Authorised

Representative, was that ld. CIT came to a wrong conclusion on the

nature of assessee's activities. According to him, ld. Commissioner of

Income Tax erroneously took a view that assessee was imparting

financial education/awareness for a price, when in reality it was not

collecting any fees from any of the participants of various programmes

conducted by it. As per the ld. Authorised Representative, assessee

was conducting investor meets across Tier II cities in India and was

imparting education for developing fundamental skills in investing.

Further, as per the ld. Authorised Representative, assessee had

conducted 25 to 30 investor awareness programmes in association

with M/s. Nanayam Vikatan, a leading financial magazine of South. 4. Continuing his submissions, ld. Authorised Representative,

pointed out that many mutual funds and life insurance companies like

Goldman Sachs, Tata Life Insurance, Reliance Life Insurance, Bharti

AXA Life Insurance, etc. were sponsoring programmes, which
 :- 4 -: ITA No.2565/2017. assessee was conducting for the benefit of public. Ld. Authorised

Representative sought to bring to our attention the investor education

material published on a periodic basis, and similar articles published

in a fortnightly magazine. According to the ld Authorised

Representative, assessee was conducting E-courses for imparting basic

skills for making investment, to common people and had also

developed a mobile app for this purpose. As per the ld. Authorised

Representative, assessee was accredited by National Institute of

Securities Market (NISM) as a provider of continuing professional

education. Further, as per the ld. Authorised Representative, assessee

had future plans to pursue educational courses to school children and

college students and training of school teachers for this purpose. 5. Adverting to the definition of ''charitable purpose'' given in Section 2(15) of the Act, ld. Authorised Representative submitted that

assessee was eligible for registration u/s.12AA of the Act. According to

him assessee was recognized as a charitable association by Ministry of

Company Affairs, since it was registered u/s.25 of the Companies Act,

1956. As per the ld. Authorised Representative, there was a clause in

its Memorandum of Association, which mandated utilization of its

income and property solely for the promotion of its objects. Ld.

Authorised Representative also pointed out that similar institutions
 :- 5 -: ITA No.2565/2017. which were imparting financial education to general public like Vijaya

Financial Literacy Trust, Jnana Jyothi Financial Literacy and Credit

Counseling Trust, Indian Institute of Financial Services, Insurance

Research and Education Foundation, National Insurance Academy,

and ITM University were given registration u/s.12A of the Act and

assessee could not be singled out for a different treatment. Reliance

was placed on Government's policy, strategy and road map for

financial literacy. Submission of the ld. Authorised Representative was

that assessee was pursuing objects of general public utility, and was

eligible for registration u/s.12AA of the Act. According to the ld.

Authorised Representative, question of applying proviso to Section

2(15) of the Act was something which was to be considered by the ld.

Assessing Officer at the time of assessment and not relevant while

considering an application for registration u/s.12AA of the Act. As per

the ld. Authorised Representative, assessee did not promote any

financial product or any specific institution through its activities. Thus,

as per the ld. Authorised Representative, assessee was unjustly denied

registration sought u/s.12AA of the Act. 6. Per contra, ld. Departmental Representative strongly

supporting the order of the ld. CIT submitted that objects of the

assessee did not fall within the category of general public utility. As
 :- 6 -: ITA No.2565/2017. per the ld. Departmental Representative, assessee could not be

granted registration sought by it u/s.12AA of the Act. Reliance was

placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Uttarakhand High Court in the case

of CIT vs. National Institute of Aeronautical Engineering Educational

Society, 315 ITR 428 and that of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sole Trustee, Loka Shikshana Trust vs. CIT , 101 ITR 234. 7. We have considered the rival contentions and perused the

orders of the authorities below. Before adverting to the facts, it will

be apposite to extract Section 2(15) of the Act which defined

charitable purpose. ''charitable purpose" includes relief of the poor,
 education, medical relief, preservation of environment
 (including watersheds, forests and wildlife) and
 preservation of monuments or places or objects of
 artistic or historic interest, and the advancement of any
 other object of general public utility : Claim of the assessee is that it would fall under the limb ''education''

and alternatively, if this is negatived it would fall within the last limb

which is ''advancement of any other object of general public utility''.

Main objects of the assessee as it appear in its MOA is reproduced

hereunder;- ''1.To integrate Financial Learning, Education & Protection
 and propagate the need for financial planning, investment
 products and services, the policies and procedures, its
 strength and pitfalls in India or abroad either on its own or in
 alliance with any other person/ body in India or abroad under
 any arrangement 2. To collect, research, process, disseminate, distribute
 supply, furnish, give, send, part with, dispose of, publish,
 promulgate, proclaim, declare and do all such acts and
 deeds to make public any kind of technical, industrial,
 financial, economic or commercial information data,
 knowledge, details and the like of or relating to matters of
 interest to investors, organizations, associations, chambers,
 companies, banks or other entities including information
 about persons and entities who have been declared
 defaulters by any government, regulatory or any other body,
 or who are non compliant with any laws/ policies/ guidelines
 of the government,
 regulatory or any other body, or about business/companies in
 distress and allied matters, whether for consideration or
 otherwise, and by way of printing and publishing or through
 website, newspaper, magazine, brochure, radio broadcast,
 CD ROMS, floppies, directories, charts, movies, audio-visual,
 :- 8 -: ITA No.2565/2017. pamphlet or other works and to create, maintain and manage
 fund/s for the above. 3. To establish state-of-the-art facilities for education,
 software development and training and to carry out teaching
 and research and to offer continuing education programs,
 vocational skills training in various fields through any medium
 including reports, television, Internet, newspapers, seminars,
 career guidance festivals and other forms of media and
 communication and to confer degrees, diplomas, certificates
 and other academic distinctions on the basis of
 examination, or any other method of evaluation subject to
 approval from the appropriate authorities in the field of
 investments and to conduct market surveys, investor
 surveys, opinion polls and other studies relating to
 investments and financial markets for the benefit of all
 irrespective of caste, creed and religion. 4.To create higher levels of intellectual abilities and
 standards in the field of investments and financial
 markets and to promote and inculcate honorable
 business practices''. 8. First taking up the question whether assessee can be

considered as engaged in ''education'', what was held by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of Sole Trustee, Loka Shikshana Trust at para

41 of its judgment is reproduced hereunder:- 2(15) of the Act "not involving the carrying on of any
 activity for profit" do not qualify the first three categories
 of relief of the poor, education, or medical relief but
 qualify only the fourth category of "advancement of any
 other object of general public utility". Once the object of
 the appellant- trust is held to be education, the trust
 :- 11 -: ITA No.2565/2017. would, according to Mr. Palkhivala, be held to be for a
public purpose as defined in s. 2(15) of the Act. In such
an event, it would be immaterial whether the object of
the trust involves or does not involve the carrying on of
any activity for profit. As against that, Mr. Sharma has
controverted the submission that the concluding words of
the definition, viz., "not involving the carrying on of any
activity for profit" qualify only the forth category of
"advancement of any other object of general public
utility". According to Mr. Sharma, the concluding words
qualify the first three categories of relief of the poor,
education and medical relief also. In any case, submits
Mr. Sharma, the object of the appellant-trust falls in the
fourth category of the defination, namely, "any other
object of general public utility". It is, in our opinion, not
necessary to express an opinion in this case on the
question as to whether the words "not involving the
carrying on of any activity for profit" qualify the fourth
object, viz., the advancement of any other object of
general public utility, or whether they also qualify the
other three objects of relief of the poor, education, and
medical relief, because we are of the view that the object
of the appellant-trust was not education but any other
object of general public utility. Clauses 2, 6, 10, 14, 16
and 18 of the trust deed of the appellant read as under : and for the ventilation of public opinion on matters of
general public utility; and (d) The original trustee shall have power and
authority to spend and utilise the money and the
property of the Trust for any of the purposes of this
Trust in such manner, as to him may appear proper.
The original trustee shall be entitled to operate all the
banking accounts of the Trust. 10. The Original Trustee shall have full power to take
over on such terms as he may deem fit such concern
or concerns, or undertakings as, in his opinion, are
congenial or conducive to any of the purposes of the
Trust. 14. The original trustee shall be entitled to appoint a
manager or managers of institutions of the trust,
editor or editors and other subordinates for the
purposes of carrying out the printing and publication
of any newspaper or newspapers, weeklies, monthlies,
magazines, books or other publications, and shall
have power from time to time to delegate to any one
or more persons by power of attorney or otherwise
any one or more of the following powers : 16. The original trustee or trustees shall not take any
remuneration for discharging his or their duties as a
 :- 13 -: ITA No.2565/2017. trustee or trustees provided that this provision shall
 not preclude a trustee or trustees from being paid out
 of the Trust fund, such remuneration as may be
 deemed proper for carrying out any work and duty in
 connection with the conduct or management of
 institutions of the Trust, or with the business of
 printing, publishing or other activities carried on by
 the Trust. A trustee shall be entitled to be paid all
 expenses that may be incurred by him in connection
 with his duties as a trustee including travelling and
 other expenses. 18. The original trustee or other trustees shall not be
 responsible for any loss occasioned to the Trust in
 respect of any business or dealings carried on behalf
 of the Trust unless the same is due to his own fraud
 or misappropriation or breach of trust and every trust
 shall be indemnified by and out of the funds and
 moneys of the Trust against any loss or damage which
 the trustee might suffer in regard to any act, deed, or
 any fines or penalties imposed under the Factories Act or any Labour Legislation or Press Act or any other
 similar enactment

In the very same judgment their lordships also elucidated the ambit

of the term ''object of public general utility'' at paras 27 and 28, which

are reproduced hereunder:- Its essence is selflessness. In a truly charitable activity
 any possible benefit to the person who does charitable
 act is merely incidental or even accidental and
 :- 14 -: ITA No.2565/2017. immaterial. The action which flows from charitable
 thinking is not directed towards benefiting one's self. It
 is always directed at benefiting others. It is this
 direction of thought and effort and not the result of
 what is done, in terms of financially measurable gain,
 which determines that it is charitable. This direction
 must be evident and obligatory upon the trustee from
 the terms of a deed of trust before it can be held to be
 really charitable. 28. We think that this governing idea of charity must
 qualify purpose of every category enumerated in s.
 2(15) of the Act of 1961. We think that the words
 introduced by the Act of 1961 to qualify the last and
 widest category of objects of public utility were really
 intended to bring out what has to be the dominant
 characteristic of each and every category of charity.
 They were intended to bring the last and most general
 category in line with the nature of activities truly
 charitable and mentioned in the earlier categories.

The ratio- decidendi of the above judgment when applied to the

object of the assessee before us which admittedly is imparting financial

education to the general public through programmes sponsored by

Goldman Sachs, ICICI, Tata, Reliance Life etc, will clearly show that

pursuing such object would not come within the meaning of

''education''. In fact none of the objects as contained in the main

object clauses of the MOA, will fall within the meaning of ''education''. 9. This brings us to the question whether assessee's activity will

fall within the last limb of ''charitable purpose'' which is advancement

of general public utility. The type of programmes conducted by the
 :- 15 -: ITA No.2565/2017. assessee as it appear in the documents filed before the Director of

Income Tax (Exemptions) to give a bird's eye view of the nature of its

activities. This is reproduced hereunder:- 10. One of the arguments taken by the ld. Authorised

Representative before us is that applicability of first proviso to Section

2(15) of the Act, was something which was to be looked into by the ld.

Assessing Officer during the course of assessment and not an issue

which was to be considered while adjudicating an application for

registration u/s.12AA of the Act. We are afraid, we cannot accept this

line of argument. First proviso is clear in that advancement of any
 :- 17 -: ITA No.2565/2017. other object of general public utility will not be a charitable purpose, if

it involved carrying on any activity in the nature of trade, commerce or

business or any activity of rendering any service in relation to any to

trade, commerce or business, for a cess or fee. Assessee's activity

was imparting financial skills, through programme sponsored by

various companies and this in our opinion was nothing but rendering

services in relation to trade, commerce or business carried on by such

companies. Assessee was in receipt of huge sponsorship fees from

them. Just because assessee was registered u/s.25 of the Companies

Act, 1956 would not ipso facto make it eligible for registration

u/s.12AA of the Act. Predominant activity of the assessee was to

conduct programmes which were sponsored by other companies and

for which substantial fees were paid by the sponsors. In our opinion,

whether or not assessee collected fees from participants was

immaterial since it was collecting sponsorship fees from such

companies. If the interpretation sought by ld. Authorised

Representative is accepted then every company or concern engaged in

an activity of infrastructure development will become eligible for

exemption u/s.11 and 12 of the Act for the sole reason that

development of infrastructure is an activity which is of great general

public utility. Unless the dominant activity show altruistic thought and

action which reflects selflessness, we cannot say it involves any
 :- 18 -: ITA No.2565/2017. ''charity'. In the circumstances, we are not inclined to accept the

 argument of the assessee that it was carrying on any charitable

 activity within the meaning of Section 2(15) of the Act. We do not find

 any reason to interfere with the order of the ld. CIT. 11. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed.

 Order pronounced on Monday, the 11th day of June, 2018, at Chennai.