Office of the Principal Commissionerate of Customs, Port User Buld. Custom House Mundra,
Mundra
Kutch , Gujarat - 370421

 WITH

 Customs Appeal No. 10560 of 2021- DB
(Arising out of OIA-MUN-CUSTM-000-APP-175-176-20-21 dated 22/03/2021 passed by
Commissioner of CUSTOMS-MUNDRA)

RAJESH KHIMANI ........Appellant
Plotno.76/A, Arihant Nagar, Baroi Road
Mundra
Mundra, Gujarat
 VERSUS

C.C.-MUNDRA ......Respondent
Office of the Principal Commissionerate of Customs, Port User Buld. Custom House Mundra,
Mundra
Kutch , Gujarat - 370421

APPEARANCE: 2. Shri Sanjay Kalra, Learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the

Appellants submits that the appellants were not aware of smugglings of red

sander. They were appointed as CHA and G-Card Holder by M/s. Sanyo

Ceramics who have loaded the goods viz wash basins for export. The

replacement of the goods enroute with red sander was not in the knowledge

of the appellant therefore they cannot be implicated and no offence is

established against them with regard to smuggling of red sanders. It is his

submission that the appellant knew about the red sander in the container

only in the evening of 22nd June, 2018 when he was in Mumbai and he

informed Shri Karan Bhai that he will disclose the fact about the red sander

to the custom authorities and on next day 23.06.2023 it was informed to the

custom officer therefore, there is no offence on the part of the appellant.

This fact has also been accepted by the Learned Commissioner (Appeals).

Therefore, no penalty can be imposed on the appellant. He further submits 3|Page C/10605,10560/2021-DB

that in the case of identically placed person involved in present case namely

Shri Karan Chauhan, this tribunal has set aside the penalty. In view of the

aforesaid judgment in the present case also penalty is liable to be set aside. 3. Shri Sanjay Kumar, Learned Superintendent (AR) appearing on behalf

of the Revenue reiterates the finding of the impugned order. 4. We have carefully considered the submission made by both sides and

perused the records. We find that the penalties were imposed by the

Adjudicating Authority only on ground that the appellant have not informed

the customs authoritiesimmediately about the stuffing of red sander in the

container and informed only on the next day. In this regard we find that the

appellant has given a statement that in the evening when he knew about the

stuffing of red sander in the container he was in Mumbai and after returning

from their next day itself heinformed the customs authorities. The act of the

appellant was not found malafide by the Learned Commissioner (Appeals) in

his order. The relevant para of the Commissioner (Appeals) order is

reproduced below: - 4.1 The learned Commissioner (Appeals) accepting that the appellant did

not have direct involvement in the illegal export of prohibited good red

sander reduced the penalty substantially. In our view oncethe Commissioner

(Appeals) is of the view that the appellant have no direct involvement, the

penalty even reduced cannot be upheld. 5|Page C/10605,10560/2021-DB

4.2 As per the facts which is not under dispute the appellants came to

know about this fact from one Shri Karan Chauhan against whom also for

the same reason the penalties were imposedwhich was reduced by the

Commissioner (Appeals). In an appeal against the Commissioner (appeals)

order this Tribunal set aside the penalty vide order No. A/11130/2023 dated

01.05.2023. The said order is reproduced below:- From the above finding the Learned Commissioner appeal has clearly
 held that the appellant had no knowledge about any of the act which
 make the goods liable to confiscation. Despite his clear finding he
 upheld the reduced penalty. 5. As per my above discussion and finding I do not see any reason
 or role of the appellant to attract penalties under Section 114 (i) and Section 114 (AA) . Accordingly, the penalties are set aside. Appeal is
 allowed." allegation was made against the appellant in the above decision and the

Tribunal has set aside the penalties. We are therefore of the view that in the

present case also the appellants being identically placed as appellant in the

above decision the penalty are not sustainable. Hence, the same are set

aside. 5. The impugned order is modified to the above extent. Appeals are

allowed. (Pronounced in the open court on 03.11.2023 )

 RAMESH NAIR
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 RAJU
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

Neha