*****

 Present petition has been filed under Article 226 of the

Constitution of India to assail the order dated 05.09.2016 passed

by the Executive Officer, Dausa Kendriya Sahakari Bank Limited,

respondent No.3, whereby petitioner has been placed under

suspension. Counsel for the petitioner has raised twofold

arguments. Firstly, it is contended that the Executive Officer,

respondent No.3, was not competent to pass the order of

suspension. Secondly, it is contended that suspension order was

passed without passing an order of inquiry or contemplating the

same. [2] S.B. CIVIL WRIT PET. 13712/2016
 SHAMBHU DAYAL SHARMA Vs. DAUSA KENDRIYA SAHAKARI BANK LTD.

 Shri Ram Kumar Sharma, Counsel appearing for the

respondents has submitted that respondent No.3 Executive

Officer holding dual charge is also Member Secretary of the

District Level Advisory and Inquiry Committee and hence is

empowered to order suspension. Shri Sharma has drawn

attention of the Court to the reply, wherein vide Annexure R-3/1

a show cause notice was issued to the Society. In the show cause

notice it has been stated that Society has not complied with the

mandate of the Reserve Bank of India and has not completed KYC

qua pension, loan and also qua accounts under Bhamashah

Scheme. Therefore, it is stated by Shri Ram Kumar Sharma that

there was sufficient reason for respondent No.3 to pass the

suspension order. It is contended that even though in the

suspension order it is wrongly written that same has been passed

by respondent No.3 in his capacity as Executive Officer, in fact

that order has been passed by respondent No.3 in his capacity as

Member Secretary of the District Level Advisory and Enquiry

Committee

 Shri Ram Kumar Sharma has further submitted that till

today the suspension order has not been given effect to and

petitioner is continuing in spite of the suspension order. It is

contended that once the suspension order takes effect, the order

holding inquiry shall be passed. Shri Sharma has stated that

respondent No.2 Society has not given effect to the order passed

by respondent No.3 who is the Member Secretary of the District
 [3] S.B. CIVIL WRIT PET. 13712/2016
 SHAMBHU DAYAL SHARMA Vs. DAUSA KENDRIYA SAHAKARI BANK LTD.

Level Advisory and Enquiry Committee and already a

communication has been addressed to the Registrar, Cooperative

Societies for taking action against respondent No.2 Society. Suspension is not a punishment. There are enough

grounds to put the petitioner under suspension. To check frauds,

the Reserve Bank of India have been insisting that for all

accounts KYC should be rigorously followed. No ground is made to cause interference and the

present petition being devoid of merit is dismissed. (KANWALJIT SINGH AHLUWALIA),J. /KKC/
(s-137)