% 16.05.2024 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioners seeking that the
 respondent/NDMC be directed to provide to the petitioners, the copy of the
 proposed "Assessment List" for the year 2024-25. Further, it has been sought
 that the prescribed date for filing objections, as contemplated under Section
 70 of the NDMC Act, 1994, be extended for a reasonable period after the
 supply of the proposed "Assessment List" to the petitioners. 2. The petition has been filed by the three petitioners having properties in
 the Khan Market area who are stated to have failed to obtain, through their
 respective representatives, the proposed "Assessment List" for the assessment
 year 2024-25, from the office of NDMC. 3. The rationale for seeking the "Assessment List" is that there are huge
 variations in the rateable value of similarly situated properties on account of W.P.(C) 6675/2024 Page 1 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:01
 the fact that the NDMC allegedly follows different method of determining
 rateable value in respect of similar properties. It is submitted that the refusal
 on the part of the MCD to supply the proposed "Assessment List" for the year
 2024-25, causes grave prejudice to the petitioners inasmuch as it defeats their
 rights to file their objections pursuant to the public notice issued on
 12.04.2024. The said public notice reads as under:- 4. At the outset, the relevant statutory provisions of the NDMC Act, 1994,
 which fall for consideration for the purpose of adjudging the prayers sought in
 the present petition, may be taken note of. The same are reproduced
 hereunder:-. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:02
 in the case, if any in which amendments have been made as shown
 therein, no valid objection has been made to the rateable value or any
 other matter entered in said list. (7) The assessment list so authenticated shall be deposited in the
 office of the Council and shall be open, free of charge during office
 hours to all owners, lessees and occupiers of lands and buildings
 comprised therein or the authorised agents of such persons, and a
 public notice that it is so open shall forthwith be published. 71. Evidential value of Assessment List.--Subject to such alterations
 as may thereafter be made in the Assessment List under section 72 and
 to the result of any appeal made under the provisions of this Act, the
 entries in the Assessment List authenticated and deposited as provided
 in section 70 shall be accepted as conclusive evidence for the purpose
 of assessing any tax levied under this Act, of the rateable value of all
 lands and buildings to which such entries respectively relate. 72. Amendment of Assessment List.--(1) The Chairperson may, at
 any time, amend the Assessment List-- (a) by inserting therein the name of any person whose name ought to be
 inserted; or (b) by inserting therein any land or building previously omitted; or (c) by striking out the name of any person not liable for the payment of
 property tax; or (d) by increasing or reducing for adequate reasons the amount of any
 rateable value and of the assessment thereupon; or (e) by making or cancelling any entry exempting any land or building
 from liability to property tax; or (f) by altering the assessment on the land or building which has been
 erroneously valued or assessed through fraud, mistake or accident; or (g) by inserting or altering an entry in respect of any building erected,
 re-erected, altered or added to, after the preparation of the Assessment
 List: 73. Preparation of new Assessment List.--It shall be in the discretion of W.P.(C) 6675/2024 Page 4 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:02
 the Chairperson to prepare for the whole or any part of New Delhi, a
 new Assessment List every year or to adopt the rateable value
 contained in the list for any year, with such alterations as may in
 particular cases be deemed necessary, as the rateable value for the
 year following, giving the same public notice as well as individual
 notices, to persons affected by such alterations, of the rateable value as
 if a new Assessment List had been prepared." 5. From the perusal of the aforementioned statutory provisions, it is
 evident that whenever an "Assessment List" is sought to be prepared for any
 particular year, it is incumbent on the Chairperson/NDMC to give public
 notice thereof. Every person claiming to be the owner/lessor/occupier of any
 land/building included in the list shall be at liberty to inspect the said
 "Assessment List" and take extracts thereof, free of charge. This right to
 inspect or to take extracts thereof is unhedged and can be exercised by any
 owner/occupier/lesser. 6. Further, under Section 70(3), it is obligatory for the
 Chairperson/NDMC to give public notice of not less than one month in
 respect of the rateable values of lands/buildings entered in the proposed
 "Assessment List". The purport to this is to enable owner/occupier/lessees to
 submit their objections to the rateable value or any other matter pertaining to
 the "Assessment List". Section 70 (5) of the Act further contemplates that
 the objections that may be submitted shall be inquired into and investigated
 and the person making them, shall be afforded an opportunity of hearing
 either in person or through any authorised agent. 7. Learned counsel for the respondent/NDMC does not dispute that the
 petitioners are entitled to take inspection or to take relevant extract/s of the
 proposed "Assessment List". Despite this position being uncontroverted, it
 appears that upon the petitioners making a request in this regard [vide W.P.(C) 6675/2024 Page 5 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:02
 Annexure P10 (colly.)], no response thereto was given by the NDMC even
 though the last date for filing objections in terms of public notice is
 15.05.2024. The petitioners have specifically sought "the copy of the
 proposed Assessment List pertaining to all properties in Khan Market and all
 properties in Connaught Place, namely, inner circle, outer circle, Parliament
 Street, Janpath and Barakhamba Road, New Delhi, for the year 2024 - 2025".
 Certain extracts of the "Assessment List" were also sought in respect of
 certain specific PID numbers. 8. Since the statutory entitlement of the petitioners to obtain copies of the
 "Assessment List" is not refuted by the learned counsel for the respondent and
 also clearly flows from the above mentioned statutory provisions, it is
 directed that the relevant extracts of the said "Assessment List", as sought by
 the petitioners, shall be provided by the respondent/NDMC to the petitioners
 expeditiously, and in any event within a period of one week from today. 9. Further, since the petitioners have a right to file objections under
 Section 70(3) r/w 70 (4) of the NDMC Act, 1994 and since the NDMC has
 been remiss in responding to/acceding to the timely request made by the
 petitioner pursuant to issuance of the aforesaid public notice, the petitioners
 shall be entitled to file their objections to the said public notice, within a
 period of one week from the date of receipt by the petitioners of the relevant
 extracts of the "Assessment List", as sought by them. The time
 period/deadline contemplated in the public notice dated 12.04.2024 for
 submission of objections stands extended accordingly. 10. Needless to say, any objection that may be filed by the petitioners shall
 be considered in accordance with the statutory prescriptions, including
 Section 70(5) of the NDMC Act, 1994. Further a copy of the duly W.P.(C) 6675/2024 Page 6 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:02
 authenticated, finalized Assessment List shall also be made available to the
 petitioners for inspection, as contemplated under Section 70(7) of the NDMC
 Act, 1994. 11. Learned counsel for the petitioners does not press for any other
 prayer/directions except emphasizing that NDMC must be scrupulous in
 adhering to the above noted statutory provisions so that the petitioners are not
 constrained to file writ petitions every year seeking enforcement of their
 statutory rights. Needless to say, it is incumbent on the respondent/NDMC to
 adhere to the relevant statutory provisions without fail, and to ensure their
 meaningful implementation. 12. The present petition, alongwith all pending applications stands
 disposed of in the above terms. SACHIN DATTA, J
 MAY 16, 2024/at W.P.(C) 6675/2024 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 18/05/2024 at 00:44:02