IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 HYDERABAD BENCH 'A', HYDERABAD

 BEFORE SHRI B. RAMAKOTAIAH, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND
 SHRI SAKTIJIT DEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER

 I.T.A. Nos. 1462, 1463, 1464, 1465, 1466 and 1467/Hyd/2012 A.Ys. : 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05, 2005-06, 2006-07 and 2008-09 Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu, vs. Asst. Commissioner of
Tirupathi. Income Tax, Central
PAN - ACOPKO799A Circle, Tirupathi. Appellant Respondent

 ITA No. 1450, 1451, 1452, 1453 & 1454/Hyd/2012
 AY: 2003-04, 2004-05, 2006-07, 2007-08 & 2008-09

Asst. Commissioner of vs. . Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu,
Income Tax, Central Tirupathi. All these appeals filed by the assessee as well as the
revenue are directed against different orders of the CIT(A)-VII,
Hyderabad. Since identical issues are involved in these
appeals, they were clubbed and heard together and, therefore,
a common order is passed for the sake of convenience. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

ITA NO. 1462/HYD/2012 for AY 2002-03 2. The only dispute in the present appeal is in respect of
addition of Rs. 2,10,800/- being sustained by the CIT(A). 3. Briefly the facts are, the assessee is an individual. A
search and seizure operation was carried out in case of
assessee u/s 132 of the Act on 23/01/2008. As a consequence
of search and seizure operation, notice was issued u/s 153A of
the Act calling upon the assessee to file a return of income. In
response to the notice issued u/s 153A of the Act, the assessee
filed his return of income on 29/08/2008 declaring total income
of Rs. 1,57,920/-. During the assessment proceeding,
Assessing Officer on verification of the seized material noticed
that assessee had made several investments in land, which is
evident from the sale deeds found and seized at the time of
search and seizure operation. Investments made in land was
found to be to the extent of Rs. 7,31,900/-. Assessing Officer
noticing that assessee has not reflected the investments in his
return of income treated the amounts as mentioned in the sale
deeds, as unrecorded investment and added it to the income of
Assessee. Further, the Assessing Officer noticed that Assessee
has credited an amount of Rs. 2,30,601/- to his capital accounts
as gifts received. As mentioned by the Assessing Officer in
assessment order in absence of any details submitted by the
assessee in that regard, the amount was treated as unexplained
credit and added to the income of Assessee. 4. Being aggrieved of the additions made in the assessment
order, assessee preferred appeal before the CIT(A). 5. So far as the first addition of Rs. 7,31,000/- in respect of
unexplained investment in land is concerned, assessee 3 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

objecting to the said addition, submitted before the CIT(A) that
assessee had taken the value of the asset in the cash flow
statement and also in the balance sheet filed along with the
return of income in response to notice issued u/s 153A of the
Act. 6. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the
assessee, vis-a-vis material on record, held that out of the
additions made by Assessing Officer an amount of Rs.
5,20,200/- cannot be sustained. However, with regard to the
amounts of Rs. 76,500/- and Rs. 1,34,300/-, the CIT(A) was of
the view that assessee has made investment in the name of a
person who is an employee of the assessee and the entries in
the cash flow statements indicated through cash payments and
such payments were made subsequent to the date of search.
He, therefore, was of the view that such transactions do not
reflect correct nature of investment, hence, cannot be explained
in the hands of the assessee. He further noticed that seized
material indicate that investments are made and the documents
are drawn in the name of different person other than the
assessee and the investment made in the name of such person
could have been reflected as debtor as per the accounting
norms. The CIT(A) wondered how investment made in the name
of another person can be explained through the books of the
assessee as his own investments. He, therefore, held that the
revised accounts incorporating such receipts prepared after the
date of search will not indicate the true and correct position and
nature of the transaction as such transactions are recorded in
the name of a third party. He further noted that there is no
confirmation or affidavits furnished by the person in whose
names such investments are made. He, therefore, sustained the
addition of an amount of Rs. 76,500/- and Rs. 1,34,300/-
totalling to Rs. 2,10,800/- out of total addition of Rs. 7,31,000/-. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

6.1 So far as the addition of Rs. 2,30,601/- being gifts
credited to capital account, the CIT(A) deleted the same. 7. Being aggrieved of the order passed by the CIT(A)
sustaining the addition of Rs. 2,10,800/-, the assessee is in
appeal before us. 8. The learned AR submitted before us that though the
assessee had purchased the land in the name of one of his
employee Shri S. Vijaya Kumar but actually the expenditure was
booked in the books of the assessee since investment was
made by the assessee. In this context, the learned AR referred
to a copy of the registered sale deed at page 15 of the paper
book. Further, the learned AR referring to the ledger account of
the said land in the books of the assessee submitted that debit
balance of Rs. 85,571/- was recorded. In this context, he
referred to page 21 of the paper book. It was submitted by the
learned AR that when the Assessing Officer has accepted the
opening balance in the ledger account there is no reason why
he should have disputed the investment made by the assessee
in the land. The learned AR referring to sale deed dated
14/12/2001 submitted that assessee invested the amount of Rs.
1,34,000/- towards purchase of land. It was submitted that this
investment was also reflected in the books of the assessee. It
was submitted that in his balance sheet, assessee has shown
both the lands as his assets. In this context, he referred to the
copy of the balance sheet as at 31/03/2012 at page 77 of the
paper book. 9. The learned DR, on the other hand, supporting the orders
of the revenue authorities submitted that when the land in 5 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

question has not been recorded in the name of the assessee,
the investment cannot be considered to be that of assessee. 10. We have considered the submissions of the parties and
perused the material on record. Though it is a fact that the
lands in question were in the name of Shri S. Vijaya Kumar
stated to be an employee of the assessee, but, it is also a fact
that the investment in land was not only recorded in the books
of assessee but also reflected in the balance sheet furnished
along with the return of income filed in response to notice u/s
153A of the Act. It is also a fact that Assessing Officer without
properly examining the books of account and the balance sheet
has added the amount by simply observing that the amount has
not been reflected in the return of income, which is not correct.
The CIT(A) sustained the addition by simply observing that the
assessee has updated the books of account by incorporating
such investment after search. In our view, the conclusion drawn
by the Assessing Officer as well as the CIT(A) are without any
basis. As the assessee has reflected the investment in its
books of account as well as in the balance sheet furnished
along with the return of income, there is no reason to consider
the investment made as unexplained. Accordingly, we direct the
Assessing Officer to delete the addition of Rs. 2,10,800/-. 11. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1462/Hyd/2012 is allowed. ITA NO. 1463/H/2012 for AY 2003-04 12. The only dispute in this appeal is with regard to the action of
the CIT(A) in sustaining the addition of Rs. 1,99,227/- representing
gifts. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 13. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding, the
Assessing Officer noted that the assessee has shown an amount of
Rs. 1,99,227/- as gift received. As seen from the assessment order,
the Assessing Officer by observing that no details were furnished
explaining the gifts, the amount was added to the income of the
assessee. Being aggrieved of such addition, assessee preferred
appeal before the CIT(A). 14. Before the CIT(A), it was contended by the assessee that the
assessee has received the gifts on his marriage day celebration on
13/11/2003 from his close relatives. It was submitted that gifts were
duly accounted for and were admitted in the original return of income
filed. It was also submitted that the assessee had furnished all
information relating to the gifts in response to the questionnaire
issued by the Assessing Officer. It was, therefore, contended that
addition was unjustified. Further, assessee contended that the person
who had given gifts have also confirmed the gifts in sworn affidavits. 15. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee
along with the facts and materials on record, noticed that the gifts
were received from relatives of the assessee, who have also
furnished affidavits accepting gifts made by them. However, he noted
that the affidavits filed by all the donors are in the month of November
and December, 2009 and one of the affidavit is as late as 24/12/2009,
which is almost nearing the limitation for the assessment
proceedings. He noted that in some of the affidavits dates are not
clearly mentioned. He further noted that donors are not family
members having creditworthiness or sufficient source of income to
make the gift as the only source of income of the donors is
agricultural income. He noted that as per the income certificate issued
by VRO and other documents relating to the details of land and crop
the donors are not having sufficient income to advance the gift. He,
therefore, sustained the addition of Rs. 1,99,227/-. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 16. The learned AR submitted before us that the assessee for the
impugned assessment year has filed his return of income prior to the
date of search showing the gifts received in the capital account.
Therefore, the Assessing Officer could not have made the addition. In
this context, the learned AR drew our attention to the return of income
a copy of which is at page 77 of the paper book, and the balance
sheet, a copy of which is at page 85 of the paper book. The learned
AR submitted that as the donors have confirmed the gifts made by
them and since they have also furnished sufficient proof towards their
source of income, there is no reason to treat the gift as unexplained
credit of the assessee. It was further submitted that the CIT(A) has
deleted the addition in respect of similar gifts received for the AY
2002-03 and the department has also accepted the same by not
preferring any appeal against the order of CIT(A), therefore, there
cannot be any justification for making addition of Rs. 1,99,227/-. 17. The learned DR, on the other hand, relied on the order of
CIT(A). 18. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record.
As can be seen from the facts recorded at para 5.3 of the order of the
CIT(A), the gifs amounting to Rs. 1,99,227/- consist of small amounts
received from close relatives of the assessee. It is also a fact that all
the donors have furnished affidavits not only confirming the gifts but
have also furnished their source of income from agriculture with
supporting evidences like Pahani and certificate from the VRO. It
cannot also be denied that assessee has shown gifts in the original
return filed by him prior to the date of search. In such circumstances,
the addition made by observing that the creditworthiness of the
donors have not been established appears to be merely on
presumption and surmises. As the assessee has established the
identity of the donors and their source of income as well as 8 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

genuineness of transaction, which in any case has not been disputed
by the CIT(A), we are of the view that addition of the gifts amounting
to Rs. 1,99,227/- is not justified. Accordingly, we direct the Assessing
Officer to delete the same. 18.1. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1463/Hyd/2012 is allowed. ITA NO. 1464/HYD/2012 for AY 2005-06 19. The first issue in the present appeal relates to addition of an
amount of Rs. 7,76,500/- being sustained by the CIT(A) out of the
addition of Rs. 12,05,000/- made by the Assessing Officer towards
unaccounted investment. 20. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceedings, on the
basis of seized material, the Assessing Officer noticed that the
assessee has made investment in land amounting to Rs. 12,05,000/-
as per the sale deeds found at the time of search. By observing that
the assessee has not reflected the investment in its return of income,
the Assessing Officer added the amount of Rs. 12,05,000/- to the
income of the assessee for the assessment year under consideration.
Being aggrieved of such addition, assessee preferred appeal before
the CIT(A). 21. In course of hearing appeal before the CIT(A), assessee
contended that the amount of Rs. 12,05,000/- is towards investment
in land by S/Shri D. Mahesh, S. Vijaya Kumar and Smt. K. Aruna
Kumari. It was submitted by the assessee that the Assessing Officer
was totally unjustified in making the addition by observing that the
assessee has not reflected investments in the return of income
whereas the assessee in his cash flow statement accompanying the
return has accounted for all these investments. It was, therefore,
submitted that the investments in the name of D. Mahesh and Vijaya 9 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

Kumar was in fact shown in the balance sheet filed along with the
return of income and without calling for information from the
assessee, the Assessing Officer has straightaway added the amounts.
So far as the investment of Rs. 4,28,500/- in the name of K. Aruna
Kumari, it was submitted by the assessee that Smt. K. Aruna Kumari
in the return filed by her has already shown the amount of Rs.
4,28,500/- and assessment has already been completed in her case
by the Assessing Officer accepting such investment. 22. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee
vis-a-vis facts and materials on record found the investment made in
the name of D. Mahesh and S. Vijaya Kumar unusual as investments
of those persons were reflected in cash flow statement of the
assessee that too without showing them as debtors. He further noted
that there are no confirmations in this regard to explain the
investments in the name of the said persons to explain true and
correct nature of the transactions as indicated by the assessee. He,
therefore, was of the view that investments in the names of Shri
Vijaya Kumar and D. Mahesh amounting to Rs. 7,76,500/- stands
unexplained and addition to that extent is justified. However, so far as
the amount of Rs. 4,28,500/- being investment made by K. Aruna
Kumiar, the CIT(A) deleted the addition by accepting the submissions
of the assessee. 23. The learned AR submitted before us that though the lands were
purchased in the names of D. Mahesh and Vijaya Kumar, but, actually
they were assessee's investments and accordingly have been duly
recorded in the books of the assessee. The investments have also
been reflected in the cash flow statement filed along with the return of
income. It was submitted that the Assessing Officer without properly
verifying the cash flow statements has added the amount by merely
observing that the assessee has not reflected the investments in the
return of income. In this context, the learned AR referred to the 10 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

copies of the sale deed at page 23 of the paper book and also the
ledger copy showing the investment. 24. The learned DR, on the other hand, supported the order of the
CiT(A). 25. We have heard the parties and perused materials on record. On
going through the orders of the revenue authorities, it becomes clear
that while the Assessing Officer has added the amount in question
with the remark that the assessee has not reflected them in the
returns filed, the CIT(A) sustained part of the addition on the ground
that though the assessee has reflected the investments in the books
of account but the lands have been purchased by third parties. So far
as the Assessing Officer's observation is concerned, we find it to be
without any basis as Assessee has not only reflected the investments
in its books of account but has also shown it in the balance sheet
accompanying the return of income. The finding of the CIT(A) is also
on the basis of presumptions and surmises considering the fact that
merely because the investments have been made in the name of
some other persons, the additions have been made by totally ignoring
the fact that the assessee recorded the investments in its books of
account as well as balance sheet furnished along with the return.
Therefore, the investments cannot be considered as unexplained. In
the aforesaid circumstances, we do not find any reason to sustain the
addition made and accordingly we direct the Assessing Officer to
delete the same. 26. The next issue is with regard to CIT(A) sustaining the addition
of Rs. 6,47,201/- out of the total amount of Rs. 10 lakhs made by the
Assessing Officer. 27. Briefly the facts are, during the course of assessment
proceedings, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has 11 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

debited the expenditure of Rs. 35,27,990/- in the P&L a/c relating to
M/s Gajalakshmi Nagar - II project. By mentioning that the assessee
could not produce any evidence or details with regard to expenditure
like heads of expenditure, amount of expenditure, persons to whom
paid, bills and vouchers etc., made ad-hoc disallowance of Rs. 10
lakhs. Being aggrieved of such disallowance made, assessee
preferred appeal before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) though accepted that
the assessee might have incurred expenditure in the Gajalakshmi
Nagar - II project by way of laying internal roads, sewerage works,
plantation of trees, etc., but, he observed that some amount of
expenditure being inflated by the assessee cannot be ruled out.
However, he was of the view that disallowance made by the
Assessing Officer was on higher side and accordingly, he directed the
Assessing Officer to restrict the disallowance to 10% of the
expenditure debited to P&L account. 28. The learned AR contesting the disallowance confirmed by the
CIT()A) submitted that expenditures made are recorded in the books
of account. It was submitted that books of account have been audited
u/s 44AB. It was submitted that without pointing out any defects or
deficiencies in the books of account or without rejecting book result,
the Assessing Officer was not justified in making adhoc disallowance
and the CIT(A) in sustaining a part of it. It was further contended by
the learned AR that assessment in case of assessee being a search
assessment adhoc disallowance cannot be made in absence of any
incriminating material found as a result of search. In support of such
allegation, the learned AR relied upon a number of decisions of
Tribunal and the copies of which have been filed in the paper book. 29. The learned DR, on the other hand, submitted that as the
expenditure claimed was not supported by genuine vouchers and
supported by only self-made vouchers and since expenditures were
incurred in cash, disallowance made was justified. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 30. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
material on record as well as the orders of the revenue authorities on
this issue. The expenditure claimed by the assessee on various
dates towards Gajalakshmi Nagar - II project, on account of gravel
purchase, JCB hire charges, labour charges, land development
charges, watering charges etc. It is also a fact that the entire
expenditure has been incurred in cash and supported by only self-
made vouchers. Though it may be a fact that the expenditure has
been recorded in the books of account, that cannot by itself prove the
fact that the entire expenditure is genuine. Considering the nature of
expenditure and the fact that it is incurred in cash and being
supported by only self-made vouchers, some amount of inflation in
the expenditure cannot be ruled out. Now it is well settled that search
assessment u/s 153A of the Act cannot be confined to seized material
alone. The Assessing Officer while making search assessment in a
case where assessment has not been made in regular course can
consider all aspects of income accruing to the assessee during the
relevant AY. Therefore, the assessee is required to prove the
genuineness of the expenditure. As the assessee has not proved the
genuineness of the entire expenditure claimed to have been incurred,
in our view, the order passed by the CIT(A) in restricting the
disallowance to 10% of the total expenditure debited to P&L A/c is
reasonable and do not call for any interference. Accordingly, we
sustain the addition made. However, we may clarify that though the
assessee in the ground has stated that the disallowance made by the
CIT(A) is Rs. 6,47,201/-, but, it would be clear from the finding of the
CIT(A) at para 7.3 of his order that he has only directed disallowance
of 10% of the expenditure claimed at Rs. 35,27,990/-. Therefore, the
disallowance of expenditure shall be restricted as per the direction of
the CIT(A) to 10% of Rs. 35,27,990/-. 31. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1464/Hyd/2012 is partly allowed. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

ITA NO. 1465/HYD/2012 for AY 2006-07 32. First issue as raised in Ground No. 2 relates to CIT(A)
confirming addition of Rs. 1,30,000/- out of Rs. 13 lakhs disallowed by
the Assessing Officer. 33. Briefly stated during the course of assessment proceedings,
Assessing Officer noted that the assessee has debited expenditure of
Rs. 25,86,245/- in the P&L A/c relating to M/s Gaja Lakshmi Gardens
project. The Assessing Officer by observing that assessee could not
produce any evidences and details of the expenditure incurred made
disallowance of Rs. 8 lakhs out of the total expenditure. Similarly, the
Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has debited an
expenditure of Rs. 17,45,246/- towards M/s Ganesh Gardens Project
By making similar observation disallowed the amount of Rs. 5 lakhs
out of the total expenditure claimed. The assessee challenged the
disallowance made before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) as in AY 2005-06
directed the Assessing Officer to restrict the disallowance to 10%. Of
total expenditure claimed. Being aggrieved the assessee is in appeal
before us. 34. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as the relevant materials on record.
Similar issue came up in ITA No. 1464/Hyd/2012 (supra). Following
the reasoning therein at para 30 of the order we confirm the order of
the CIT(A) on this issue by rejecting the ground raised by the
assessee. 35. Ground No. 3 on the addition of Rs. 13,02,900 from M/s Viking
Realtors was not pressed by the learned AR at the time of hearing
before us, therefore, the same is dismissed as not pressed. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 36. Next issue raised in Ground No. 4 relates to the action of the
CIT(A) in confirming addition of Rs. 26,19,750/- out of addition of Rs.
26,69,750/- on account of unexplained investment. 37. Briefly the facts are, as noted by the Assessing Officer in the
assessment order as per the materials found during the course of
search and seizure operation, an unregistered sale agreement dated
15/04/2005 indicated that the assessee has purchased vacant land for
a consideration of Rs. 26,69,750/-. When the assessee was asked to
explain during the assessment proceeding, he submitted that the
document found and seized at the time of search is a fake document
created by land owner by mentioning him as a purchaser without his
knowledge. He further stated that neither the document belongs to
him nor he has made any payment as mentioned in the said
document. The Assessing Officer disbelieving the claim of the
assessee added the amount of Rs. 26,69,750/- to the income of the
assessee. Being aggrieved of the addition so made, the assessee
preferred appeal before the CIT(A). 38. In course of hearing before the CIT(A), it was contended by the
assessee that unregistered sale deed found at the time of search was
created by the land owners for enabling them to hike the price.
However, the assessee has neither purchased the land nor advanced
any amount to the land owners. In support of such submission, it was
further stated by the assessee that the document does not bear his
signature. On the other hand, the original owners of the property,
namely, Shri Muni Rajendra and Sri Om Prakash have categorically
stated before the Departmental authorities that they have not sold the
property to the assessee and the document is a fake document and
they have also not received any amount from the assessee. It was
further brought to the notice of the CIT(A) that the property in fact
was sold to various other parties by original land owners. To
substantiate such claim, assessee also furnished affidavits from the 15 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

ultimate purchasers of the property. The CIT(A) noted that before the
Assessing Officer, the assessee had submitted the affidavits of
vendors and not vendees, which were submitted for the first time
before him. The CIT(A), therefore, called for a remand report from the
Assessing Officer on such additional evidence. In the remand report,
the Assessing Officer commented that the unregistered sale
agreement dated 16/04/2005 though was signed only by the original
land owners, but, they acknowledged that they have received an
amount of Rs. 26,16,750/- on 15/04/2005 from the assessee out of
the total sale consideration of Rs. 26,69,750/-. He further noted that
seized document clearly mentioned that the owners of the property
have committed that they would register the property whenever the
buyer wants and in the name of the buyer or any other person as per
the wish of the buyer. Therefore, subsequent sale of the property in
the name of some other person is only an afterthought. 39. The CIT(A) after considering the remand report as well as the
submissions of the assessee though accepted the fact that
unregistered sale agreement was not signed by the assessee and
also the fact that the property in question was subsequently sold to
some other persons but he nevertheless came to hold that the
assessee's claim that the unregistered sale agreement is a fake
document cannot be accepted because full details relating to
transactions are clearly inscribed therein. Therefore, the subsequent
explanation of the assessee that the land was ultimately sold to some
other persons is only an afterthought to get over the incriminating
material i.e. unregistered sale agreement found at the time of search.
However, the CIT(A) was of the view that as per the unregistered sale
agreement an amount of Rs. 26,19,750/- was found to have been
paid, hence, he restricted addition to that amount. 40. The learned AR submitted before us that unregistered sale
agreement found at the time of search was not singed by the 16 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

assessee, therefore, it cannot be considered to be a genuine
document. It was further contended that vendors have categorically
stated in the affidavits submitted as well as statement recorded from
them that they have neither sold the property to the assessee nor
received any consideration in cash from the assessee. It was further
stated by them that they have sold the properties to some other
persons and not to assessee. In this context, the learned AR referred
to the affidavits of land owners. It was contended by the assessee
that even vendees of the property have submitted affidavits
confirming that they purchased land from the original owners. It was
therefore contended that the assessee being noway related to the
transaction, addition cannot be made at the hands of the assessee. It
was submitted that solely relying upon unregistered sale agreement
not signed by the assessee, addition cannot be made. In support of
such contention, assessee relied upon a decision of the ITAT "D"
Bench in case of CIT Vs. Dinesh Jain HUF , 211 Taxman 23. 41. The learned DR, on the other hand, submitted that unregistered
sale agreement was found and seized from the premises of the
assessee and indicated that assessee has paid a consideration
towards purchase of property, hence, the assessee cannot deny the
transaction and, therefore, the addition made is justified. 42. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
materials on record as well as the orders of the revenue authorities
on this issue. As can be seen from the unregistered sale agreement,
a copy of which is placed at page 229 of the paper book, the said
document has not been signed by the assessee. Similarly, assessee
has submitted the affidavits of original land owners as well as
vendees before the Assessing Officer as well as the CIT(A). Original
land owners in their affidavits have clearly stated that they have
neither sold the property to the assessee nor received any
consideration from the assessee in that regard. These evidences 17 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

have not been controverted by bringing any other evidence on record
either by the AO or by the CIT(A). Though, it may be a fact that
seized document raises a presumption with regard to the authenticity
of the contents thereof in terms of section 132(4A) of the Act, but, law
is well settled that such presumption is rebuttable. The assessee can
prove the contents of such document incorrect by producing
necessary evidence. It is a fact on record that apart from unregistered
sale agreement (not signed by the assessee) there are no other
evidence corroborating the fact that the assessee has in fact
purchased the land or has paid any consideration to the original land
owners. On the contrary, the statement of the vendors before the
departmental authorities, affidavits filed by the vendors and vendees,
copies of the registered sale deeds on actual sale of the property
clearly establish that the unregistered agreement of sale found during
search was never acted upon, nor assessee paid any consideration to
the vendors. That being the case, in our view, no addition can be
made at the hands of the assessee purely relying upon unregistered
sale agreement when the fact remains that land in question was
ultimately sold to some other persons by the original land owners. In
this view of the matter, we hold that addition made at the hands of the
assessee cannot be sustained. Accordingly, we direct the Assessing
Officer to delete the same. 42.1 In the result appeal in ITA No. 1465/H/12 is partly allowed. ITA NO. 1466/HYD/2012 FOR AY 2007-08. 43. First issue as raised in ground No. 2 relates to addition of an
amount of Rs. 1,19,37,000/- on account of unexplained investment in
land. 44. Briefly stated during the assessment proceeding, Assessing
Officer on the basis of materials available with him noticed that the 18 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

assessee and his wife Smt. K. Aruna Kumari have purchased three
acres of land at Yellamandam Village for a consideration of Rs.
1,19,37,000/- from Sri G. Sreenivasulu Reddy & Others vide a deed of
absolute transfer-cum-GPA on 19/12/2006. He noticed that the said
deed was signed by all the agreement holders on behalf of the owners
of the property. He further noticed that in course of recording of
statement during the search proceedings, the assessee also
confirmed the transaction. However, in the post search proceeding,
when statement was recorded from GPA holders, they denied of
having sold the properties and stated that they have entered into the
agreement for business promotion. The Assessing Officer however,
disbelieving the contention of the assessee, noted that the document
evidencing the transaction has full legal sanctity as the assessee can
stake ownership and title over the property by producing the said
document before the court of law. He further noted that the document
also makes it clear that possession of the property has been handed
over to the assessee on payment of the amount of Rs. 1,19,37,000/-.
He accordingly treated the said amount as unexplained investment
and added it to the income of the assessee. Being aggrieved of such
addition made, the assessee challenged the same before the CIT(A). 45. In course of hearing before the CIT(A), it was submitted by the
assessee that the extent of land described in the body of the
document and the schedule of the property does not tally, hence, it is
a fake document. It was submitted that the document is dated
19/12/2006 i.e. prior to the date of search and if the entire sale
consideration was received by the vendor, then, original documents
and link documents of the property must have been available at the
residence of the assessee, but, as a matter of fact, no such document
was found during the course of search proceedings. It was further
submitted that actually the land was found to have been sold to
various other persons, which was also stated by the vendor while he
was examined on oath and such transaction with the third party was 19 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

also supported by affidavit filed by them. Therefore, when the land
was never purchased by either assessee or his wife, but, purchased
by other parties and there is no other material except the said
unregistered document, the assessee cannot be considered to be the
owner of the property and the consideration of Rs. 1,19,37,000/- as
mentioned in the said document cannot be treated as unexplained
investment of the assessee. The CIT(A) though accepted the fact that
the assessee has not signed the document found during search and
also the fact that the land in question owned by Shri G. Sreenivasulu
Reddy and others were not sold to the assessee, but, some other
persons Viz., Shri P. Mohan Reddy, P. Nirmala, B. Laxmi, M. Muni
Krishna Reddy, M. Kameshwar Reddy, etc., but he held that the
document found at the time of search cannot be considered to be a
fake document as full details relating to the transactions are clearly
inscribed therein. The CIT(A) held that subsequent registration of
land in the name of some other persons is only an after thought to
avoid payment of tax. On the aforesaid consideration, the CIT(A)
sustained the addition of Rs. 1,19,37,000/-. 46. The learned AR contesting the addition made submitted that
apart from the seized material, which is not signed by the assessee,
there is no other evidence brought on record to conclusively prove the
fact that the assessee has purchased the land or has paid the
consideration as mentioned in the said document. The learned AR
referring to the statement recorded from the vendors in course of
post search proceedings before the ADIT, submitted that the vendors
have categorically stated that the land was never sold to the
assessee nor any consideration was received from the assessee in
that regard. The learned AR referring to the affidavits of the vendees
and copy of the registered sale deeds in favour of vendees to whom
the land was actually sold submitted that since the assessee has
never purchased the land nor paid any consideration, the addition 20 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

made is totally unsubstantiated and merely on the basis of
presumptions and surmises. 47. The learned DR on the other hand supported the orders of the
revenue authorities 48. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the revenue
authorities as well as other materials on record. It is very much clear
from the assessment order as well as the order of CIT(A) that the
entire addition has been made solely relying upon the document
found at the time of search indicating the sale of property to the
assessee and his wife Smt. K.A. Aruna Kumari. However, a perusal of
the seized material which is an unregistered document, copy of
which is placed at page 135 of the paper book, clearly indicates that
the document does not bear any signature of the assessee and his
wife. Similarly it is a fact on record that the vendors of the property in
course of post search proceeding when confronted with the seized
material categorically stated before the ADIT that they have not sold
the property to the assessee nor received any consideration from the
assessee. It is also further fact on record that property in question
has been ultimately sold to some other persons, as evidenced in
registered sale deeds, copies of which have been placed at pages
145 to 155 of the paper book. Similarly, affidavits filed by the vendors
and vendees clearly established the fact that property, in question,
was not sold to the assessee and his wife at any point of time.
Therefore, solely relying upon unregistered document, which is also
not signed by the assessee and his wife, addition cannot be made at
the assessee's hands. It is very much evident that the AO has not
brought any corroborative material on record to prove that the
transaction as mentioned in unregistered agreement of sale has
fructified and the consideration referred to therein was actually paid
by the assessee. Therefore, since there are material to indicate that
the consideration mentioned in the unregistered and unsigned 21 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

document was actually paid by the assessee to land owners and when
the materials on record otherwise prove that the land was sold to
persons other than the assessee and his wife, no addition can be
made at the hands of the assessee by solely relying upon the
unregistered sale agreement. In this context, we also follow our
finding in Paragraph 42 (supra) while deciding identical issue.
Therefore, in our view, the addition cannot be sustained. Accordingly,
we direct the AO to delete the same. 49. Ground No. 3 relates to the action of the CIT(A) in confirming
the addition of Rs. 7,70,000/- out of total addition of Rs. 66,60,500/-. 50. Briefly, the facts are in course of assessment proceedings, the
AO on verifying the seized material noticed that the assessee has
made investment of Rs. 66,60,500/- in purchase of land as per the
sale deeds found at the time of search by mentioning that the amount
of Rs. 66,60,500/- invested by the assessee has not been shown in
the return of income. He, therefore, added the same to the income of
the assessee. The assessee challenged the addition before the
CIT(A). The CIT(A) deleted all the additions except an amount of Rs.
7,70,000/- representing the amount invested in land registered in the
name of Shri Vijay Kumar. The CIT(A) held that as the investments
have been made in the name of Shri S. Vijay Kumar, they cannot be
considered to be the investment of the assessee. 51. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
materials on record. Similar issue came up for consideration in
assessee's appeal in ITA No 1462/Hyd/2012 (supra). Following the
decision therein we delete the addition. 52. Ground No. 4 relates to adhoc disallowance of expenditure of
Rs. 9,64,675/- . Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 53. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as the relevant materials on record.
Similar issue came up in ITA No. 1464/Hyd/2012 (supra). Following
the reasoning therein we confirm the order of the CIT(A) on this issue
by rejecting the ground raised by the assessee. 54. Ground No. 5 relates to the action of the CIT(A) in sustaining
the addition of Rs. 36,00,000/- out of Rs. 51,23,987/- made by
Assessing Officer. 55. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding, the AO
noticed that assessee has introduced the following loans during the
year: Assessee challenged the addition before the CIT(A). In course of
hearing before the CIT(A), the assessee contended that loan of Rs.
12,68,164/- taken from Sri K. Adi Narayana Reddy was supported by
confirmations from the creditor and also other details relating to
source of income. So far as loan of Rs. 36 lakhs standing in the name
of Shri K. Harinath Reddy, it was submitted by the assessee that the
said amount was appearing in liability side of the balance sheet and 23 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

the amount was received on behalf of Sri K. Harinath Reddy as his
GP holder in connection with sale of site on 28/03/2007 and said
amount was passed on to Sri K. Harinath Reddy on 08/04/2007. It
was submitted that since it was received at the fag end of the FY, the
same was shown as liability as on 31/03/2007. It was submitted that
sale document relating to the transaction was verified by the AO. So
far as the loan of Rs. 2,55,823/- standing in the name of Shri K. Nagi
Reddy, it was submitted that no loan was raised from the creditor
during the assessment year under consideration and there is no
change in the brought forward balance of Rs. 1,58,996/- standing in
the name of the said creditor. The CIT(A) after considering the
submissions of the assessee in the light of materials on record,
deleted the additions representing loan of Rs. 12,68,165/- from Shri
K. Adi Narayana Reddy and Rs. 2,55,823/- standing in the name of
Shri T. Nagi Reddy. However, so far as the credit of Rs. 36 lakhs is
concerned, the CIT(A) was of the view that though the assessee has
explained the amount to be relating to shri K. Harinath Reddy and
received by him on account of holding GPA but relevant information
such a GPA signed by shri K. Harinath Reddy and copy of the sale
document are not brought on record, therefore, transaction is not
explained fully. It was further held by him that the amount was kept
with the assessee by depositing in the bank account. He, therefore,
was of the opinion that it is not known under what circumstances
amounts of cash was deposited in the bank account as it does not
belong to the assessee and having deposited the same there was no
necessity for refund of cash after a week's time. He, therefore, was of
the view that nature of transaction is doubtful. He further noted that
no information with regard to confirmation or relevant information so
far as ownership of land, etc. has been filed to prove the transaction
as genuine. With the aforesaid observation, he confirmed the
addition. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 56. The leaned AR reiterating the contentions made before the
CIT(A) submitted that the amount was received on behalf of shri H.N.
Reddy, which would be very much evident from the books of account
of the assessee. In this context, he referred to the ledger account
copy in the name of Shri Hari Nath Reddy, which is placed at page
186 of the assessee's paper book. The learned AR further submitted
that returns of income of Shri K. Vishwanatha Reddy and Shri K.
Gopinath Reddy clearly indicate that they have shown capital gain
arising from the sale transaction of the said land, therefore, no
addition should have been made on that account. 57. The learned DR on the other hand relied on the orders of the
CIT(A) and AO. 58. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
materials on record. As can be seen from the record, the assessee
has explained that the amount was received on behalf of Shri K.
Harinath Reddy as GPA Holder towards sale of site on 23/08/2007
and the same were passed on to the Shri Harinath Reddy on
08/04/2007. It is further noted that the assessee has contended that
sale document relating to the aforesaid transaction was also verified
by the AO. On perusal of ledger account copy of Shri Harinath Reddy
in the books of the assessee, it is seen that there is a credit entry of
Rs. 36 lakhs with the noting that the amount was received on behalf
of Shri Harinath Reddy being a GPA holder. Similarly, assessee has
referred to the returns of income of Shri K.Gopinath Reddy and K.
Vishwanatha Reddy to substantiate that sale of land has been shown
by the concerned persons by declaring capital gain. It is also claimed
that amount of Rs. 36 lakhs has been paid back to Shri K. Harinath
Reddy. Therefore, only because assessee has shown liability of Rs.
36 lakhs it cannot be inferred that the amount is the unexplained cash
credit. It is necessary to ascertain the fact as to whether the
assessee's claim that the amount represents consideration towards 25 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

sale of property as GPA holder on behalf of Shri Harinath Reddy. This
could have been established had Shri Harinath Reddy been
examined. No enquiry has been taken up with shri Harinath Reddy to
ascertain whether the assessee had repaid the amount of Rs. 36
lakhs as claimed by the assessee. Therefore, considering the facts of
the case, we think it proper to remit this issue to the file of the AO for
deciding afresh after making necessary enquiry. The AO shall afford
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee before
deciding the issue. 58.1 In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1466 is partly allowed for
statistical purposes. 59. Assessee has raised 4 grounds. Ground Nos. 1 & 4 are general
in nature, hence, not required to be adjudicated. Ground No. 2 was
not pressed by the learned AR at the time of hearing before us.
Hence, this ground is dismissed as not pressed. The only surviving
issue as raised in Ground No. 3 relates to disallowance of
expenditure of an amount of Rs. 2,69,181/- sustained by the CIT(A)
out of total disallowance of Rs. 3.00 lakhs made by the Assessing
Officer. 60. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as the relevant materials on record.
Similar issue came up in ITA No. 1464/Hyd/2012 (supra). Following
the reasoning therein we confirm the order of the CIT(A) on this issue
by rejecting the ground raised by the assessee. 61. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1467/Hyd/2012 is dismissed. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

ITA NO. 1450/H/2012 for AY 2003-04 - appeal by the revenue 62. Department has raised 5 grounds. Ground Nos. 1, 2 & 5 are
general in nature, hence, not required to be adjudicated upon. In
Ground No. 3 with its sub-ground, the department has challenged the
action of the CIT(A) in deleting unexplained cash credit of Rs.
13,77,586/-. 63. Brief facts are, during the assessment proceeding, the
Assessing Officer found that during the previous year relevant to AY
under dispute, the assessee has introduced fresh loans of Rs.
5,38,335/- in the name of different creditors. Further, the assessee
has also taken fresh loans from existing creditors to the tune of Rs.
11,08,711/-. The total loan taken for the year under consideration is
Rs. 16,47,046/-. Though the assessee in course of assessment
proceeding produced affidavits from the creditors along with their
pattadar passbooks to substantiate the identity of the creditors,
genuineness of the transaction and creditworthiness of the creditors
and also other details regarding extent of land, crops grown and
approximate income earned per year and also mode of payment, etc.
but the Assessing Officer by stating that all the creditors are
agriculturists and not identifiable, therefore, credits are not verifiable
and further mentioning that the credits are without interest which is
most unusual treated the entire loan amount of Rs. 16,47,046/- as
unexplained and added it to the income of the assessee for the
assessment year under consideration. Being aggrieved of such
addition, assessee preferred appeal before the CIT(A). 64. In course of hearing of the appeal before the CIT(A), assessee,
at the outset, submitted that the Assessing Officer has committed a
mistake while adopting figure of Rs. 11,08,711/-. So far as the loan
taken from existing creditors are concerned, they actually stand at Rs.
8,39,251/-. It was submitted by the assessee that all the credits were 27 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

for short time and the creditors are either relatives or associates,
hence, did not charge any interest from the assessee. Therefore,
there cannot be anything unusual in not charging interest. It was
further submitted that the assessee has not only produced
confirmations/affidavits from the creditors but has also submitted all
other evidences to establish not only the identity of the creditors but
their creditworthiness as well as genuineness of the transaction.
Hence, the Assessing Officer without considering the evidence in
proper perspective has treated the loans as unexplained merely on
presumptions and surmises. 65. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee,
deleted the addition made by the Assessing Officer with the following
observations: 66. We have considered the submissions of the parties and perused
the orders of the revenue authorities as well as other materials on
record. It is very much evident from the assessment order itself that
the assessee has not only produced confirmations/affidavits of the
creditors confirming loan but has also produced other evidences like
pattadar passbooks of the creditors, details of their land holdings,
details of crops grown, income derived from agricultural activities,
etc. Therefore, when the assessee has fulfilled all the ingredients,
Viz.,, identity of the creditors, their creditworthiness and genuineness
of the transactions, it is not known on what basis Assessing Officer
has come to the finding that identity of the creditors are not
established, hence, credits are not verifiable. The finding of the
Assessing Officer in this regard, in our considered opinion is without 29 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

any basis and opposed to the facts and evidences available on
record. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we do not see any reason
to interfere with the finding of the CIT(A), which is accordingly
confirmed. Grounds raised on this issue are, therefore, dismissed. 67. In Ground No. 4, the Department is aggrieved with the action of
the CIT(A) in deleting the addition of an amount of Rs. 15,02,657/-. 68. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding, the
Assessing Officer on going through the seized material marked as
annexure A/KCRN/3 found that the assessee has constructed a
residential house at Door No. 8/17-1, Padmavathipuram, Tiruchanoor
Road, Tirupathi during FY 2002-03 and 2003-04 and has incurred
expenditure of Rs. 17,31,252/- as recorded in the seized document.
However, the Assessing Officer noted that as against the amount of
Rs. 17,31,252/- being the expenditure incurred towards construction
of house as per the seized material, the assessee has disclosed only
an amount of Rs. 2,28,595/- in the return of income. He, therefore,
treated the differential amount of Rs. 15,02,657/- as unexplained
investment of the assessee and added to the income of the year. The
assessee challenged the addition before the CIT(A). 69. In course of hearing of appeal before the CIT(A), it was
submitted by the assessee that the Assessing Officer has committed
an error while treating the amount of Rs. 17,31,252/- as recorded in
the seized document as investment made by the assessee in
construction of the house. It was submitted that the total of the
investment as recorded in the seized material is the investment in the
house of the assessee as well as Mr. V. Mallesh, neighbour of the
assessee, whose construction activity was also looked after by the
assessee. Thus, it was submitted by the assessee that actual amount
invested by assessee during the relevant FY is Rs. 2,28,595/- as
reflected in the return of income. In this context, assessee also 30 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

submitted the details of expenditure incurred towards construction of
his own house as well as the house of Shri V. Mallesh. The details
are as under: 70. The learned DR submitted before us that the CIT(A) has
committed an error by accepting the assessee's claim that the
addition made by the Assessing Officer also included the investment
made in house construction of Shri V. Mallesh. The learned DR
referring to seized material marked as A/KCRN/3 submitted that page
38 of the seized material clearly relates to investment made by the
assessee and the entries made from pages 40 to 47 relates to
investment made in house construction of Shri V. Mallesh, therefore,
assessee's claim that the Assessing Officer has considered the
investment made in house construction of Shri V. Mallesh cannot be
accepted. 71. The learned AR contesting the arguments of the learned DR
submitted that the Assessing Officer had actually enquired into the
issue in two ways i.e. a) as per the information available in the seized
material and b) by way of making a reference to the DVO from whom
the report was obtained. It was further submitted that so far as the
first method is concerned, the seized material marked as A/KCRN/3
would clearly reveal that it mentions the details of construction of
house belonging to the assessee as well as Shri V. Mallesh and the
details of construction expenses are in pages 1 to 38 of the seized
material. The total expenditure recorded as per the seized material is
to the tune of Rs. 44,74,683 as noted by the search party on the date
of search i.e. 27/09/2007. The total expenditure of Rs. 44,74,683/-, 32 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

comprised of an amount of Rs. 17,31,252/- for AY 2002-03 and Rs.
27,43,431/- for AY 2003-04. It was further submitted that the
contention of the learned DR that the expenditure relating to house
construction of Shri V. Mallesh is recorded at pages 40 to 47 of the
seized material is not correct as they were found to have been struck
off when the document was seized at the time of search itself. It was
further submitted by the learned AR that so far as the second method
adopted by the Assessing Officer is concerned, DVO has determined
at the cost of construction of assessee's house at Rs. 30.04 lakhs as
against Rs. 27,40,957/- declared by the assessee. It was submitted
that these facts were also examined by the CIT(A) while considering
similar addition made by the Assessing Officer for AY 2004-05 and
the CIT(A) after considering the DVO's report deleted the addition. It
was thus submitted that there is no reason to interfere with the finding
of the CIT(A). 72. We have considered the arguments of the parties as well as
materials on record. At the outset we would like to mention that the
finding of the Assessing Officer is cryptic and non-speaking as the
Assessing Officer has not discussed in detail as to why he considers
the entire amount of Rs. 17,31,252/- as an investment of the
assessee. Furthermore, though a reference has been made to the
Valuation Officer to ascertain the cost of construction but there is no
mention of that in the assessment order. Be that as it may, on perusal
of the seized material, copies of which were submitted before us by
the learned DR, it is very much clear that totalling at pages 38 & 39 of
the seized material marked as A/KCRN/3 as made by the search party
is Rs. 44,74,685/-. So far as the entries at pages 40 to 47, they are
found to have been struck off. Therefore, contention of the learned
DR that they represent expenditure incurred towards construction of
house of Shri V. Mallesh is without any substance. Furthermore, it is
a fact on record that on reference made by the Assessing Officer,
DVO has made a valuation of the cost of construction of assessee's 33 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

house and determined the cost at Rs. 30.40 lakh. Whereas as per the
seized material as well as the returns filed by the assessee, he has
disclosed the investment in house at Rs. 27,43,431/- spread over two
years i.e. AY 2003-04 and AY 2004-05. Therefore, there is not much
difference between the cost of construction declared by the assessee
and the valuation made by the DVO. This gives credence to the fact
that the valuation declared by the assessee is correct. In the
aforesaid facts and circumstances, we do not find any infirmity in the
order of the CIT(A) in deleting the addition. The ground raised by the
revenue is dismissed. 73. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1450/Hyd/2012 is dismissed. ITA NO. 1451/HYD/2012 for AY 2004-05 by the Revenue 74. Ground Nos. 1, 2 & 7 are general in nature. 75. Ground No. 3 relates to deletion of an amount of Rs. 1,85,016/-
by the CIT(A) representing fictitious gifts. 76. Briefly the facts are, at the time of assessment proceedings,
Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee in the capital account has
credited an amount of Rs. 1,85,016/- as gifts received during the
year. The Assessing Officer added the amount to the income of the
assessee with the observation that the assessee could not submit any
details to substantiate the gifts. The assessee challenged the addition
made in appeal before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) deleted the addition by
holding as under: What is left to the Assessing Officer is to examine the
same and come to the conclusion on such issue based on
the findings of his enquiries and verification of information,
as produced by the appellant. Section 68 demands the
appellant to prove not only the identity of the creditor but
also the creditworthiness of the creditors based on which
the explanation offered should be acceptable to the
Assessing Officer. In this case the appellant filed the
information to prove the transactions of the gifts and
furnished the confirmations for gifts during the
assessment proceedings and as such the affidavits
furnished before the assessing authority amounts to
fulfilling the responsibility of the appellant to prove the 35 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

 transaction from the point of view of identity and
 creditworthiness of donors. In this case, the appellant filed
 the affidavits confirming the gifts along with sources for
 the gifts from the donors and the claims could have been
 examined by the Assessing Officer on questioning the
 creditworthiness of the donors only with the help of
 additional information and evidence. In absence of the
 same, the additions made on suspicion and surmises will
 not survive. Hence the addition of Rs. 1,85,016/- is
 directed to be deleted. This ground of appeal is allowed." 77. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as other materials on record. As can be
seen, the Assessing Officer has given absolutely no reason why he
considers gifts to be unexplained inspite of the fact that the assessee
has furnished confirmations/affidavits along with other details like
land holding of the donors their source of income etc. It is to be seen
from the facts discussed at para 5.3 of the CIT(A)'s order that gifts
are of small amounts of Rs. 30,000/- to Rs. 45,000/- from different
donors and most of them are close relatives of the assessee.
Therefore, when the assessee has established the identity of the
donors, their source of income and the donors have also confirmed of
having gifted the amounts to the assessee, it is unreasonable on the
part of the Assessing Officer to ignore the evidences brought on
record and make addition by treating the gifts as unexplained.
Therefore, considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of
the case, we are of the view that the CIT(A) was justified in deleting
the addition made by the Assessing Officer. This ground of appeal is
dismissed. 78. In ground No. 4, the department has challenged the deletion of
addition of Rs. 5,04,800/- being unexplained investment made in land. 79. Briefly the facts relating to the issue are, the Assessing Officer on
going through the seized material noted that as per the sale deeds
found at the time of search, assessee has made the following
investments in land: =======
The Assessing Officer by mentioning that the assessee has not
reflected these investments in his return of income added the amount
to the income of the assessee for the impugned assessment year. 80. In appeal proceeding before the CIT(A), the assessee objecting
to the addition made submitted that in response to the questionnaire
dated 19/10/2009 issued by the Assessing Officer, the assessee had
specifically explained that purchase of land was already declared and
accounted for in the original return filed on 31/03/2006 and the total
investment including stamp duty was shown to have been quantified
at Rs. 5,62,865/-. It was submitted by the assessee that even the
document was produced before the Assessing Officer for verification.
The CIT(A) deleted the addition with the following observations: 81. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as other materials on record. So far as the
addition of Rs. 5,04,800/- is concerned, as rightly observed by the
CIT(A), the Assessing Officer without properly verifying the facts has 37 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

made the addition in a summary manner. On perusal of the ledger
account relating to the purchase of land, a copy of which is placed at
page 62 & 63 of the paper book, it is to be noted that the assessee
has reflected the investment made in purchase of land in his books of
account along with registration charges, therefore, the conclusion
drawn by the Assessing Officer that the assessee has not disclosed
the investment in the return of income is without any basis.
Furthermore, this fact has not been controverted by the department
by bringing any other material on record. Therefore, the conclusion
drawn by the Assessing Officer that assessee has not reflected the
investment in land is without any basis. Due to the aforesaid reason,
the CIT(A) in our view, was justified in deleting the addition. 82. In ground No. 5, the department has challenged the action of
the CIT(A) in deleting the addition of an amount of Rs. 7,64,112/- in
construction of building. 83. Briefly the facts are, on the basis of a document seized at the
time of search marked as A/KCRN/03, the Assessing Officer noted
that the assessee had constructed a residential house at Door No. 8-
17-1 and incurred expenditure of Rs. 27,43,431/-. However, on
verifying the return of income filed, the Assessing Officer noticed that
the assessee has reflected investment of Rs. 22,42,362/- in
construction of the house property. Therefore, Assessing Officer
added the differential amount of Rs. 5,01,069/- as unexplained
investment. That apart, during the assessment proceedings,
Assessing Officer also made a reference to the DVO for ascertaining
the cost of construction. The DVO in his report determined the cost
of construction at Rs. 30.04 lakhs. As the assessee has disclosed
cost of construction at Rs. 27,40,957/-, Assessing Officer treated the
balance amount of Rs. 2,63,043/- as unexplained investment and
added it to the income of the assessee. Therefore, the total addition
made by the Assessing Officer was to the tune of Rs. 7,64,112/-. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

Being aggrieved of the addition so made, the assessee preferred
appeal before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) deleted the addition made by
holding as under: 84. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
orders of the revenue authorities as well as other materials on record.
After perusing the finding of the CIT(A) we do not find any infirmity in
the same. This issue has been dealt in detail while considering
Departmental appeal in ITA No. 1450/Hyd/2012. As observed by us
the seized material clearly indicates that the expenditure incurred was
towards construction of assessee's own house as well as the house of
Shri V. Mallesh. It was held by us that even as per the seized
material, it cannot be said that the assessee has invested more than
Rs. 27,40,957/- as disclosed in the return of income for the AY 2003-
04 and 2004-05. Furthermore, the valuation made by the DVO also
gives credence to the fact that the cost of construction disclosed by
the assessee at Rs. 27,40,957/- is correct considering the fact that
the DVO has arrived at the cost of construction at Rs. 30.04 lakhs. In
the aforesaid view of the matter, we are of the opinion that CIT(A)
was justified in deleting the addition of Rs. 5,01,069/- as well as the
amount of Rs. 2,63,043/- being the difference between the valuation
as per the assessee and cost of construction determined by the DVO
as the difference is negligible, which can be due to the fact of self
supervision and procurement of materials by the assessee at lower
cost. Ground raised by the department is, therefore, dismissed. 85. Ground No. 6 relates to the deletion of addition of Rs.
12,65,100/- towards unexplained credit. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 86. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding,
Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee in FY relevant to AY in
dispute has obtained loan from the following persons as under: 87. Though the assessee produced the affidavits of the creditors
along with other evidences like pattadar passbook indicating their
land holdings, details of crops grown income earned by the creditors,
mode of payment etc. but the Assessing Officer by simply observing
that creditors are not identifiable and credits are not verifiable treated
the entire loan as unexplained and added it to the income of the
assessee. 88. On appeal, the CIT(A) deleted the addition made by the
Assessing Officer by observing as follows: 89. We have heard the parties, perused the relevant materials on
record and have gone through the orders of the revenue authorities.
Similar issue has been decided in ITA No. 1450/Hyd/12 for AY 2003-
04 (supra), hence, following our decision as contained in Para 66
therein, we confirm the order of the CIT(A) in deleting the addition of
Rs. 12,65,100/- and dismiss the ground raised by the revenue. 90. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1451/Hyd/2012 is dismissed. ITA NO. 1452/Hyd/2012 for AY 2006-07 by the revenue 91. Ground Nos. 1, 2 & 7 are general. In ground No. 3, the
department has challenged the action of the CIT(A) in deleting the 42 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

addition made of Rs. 16,32,958/- and Rs. 26,30,000/- as unexplained
credits. 92. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding,
Assessing Officer while examining the capital account noticed that the
assessee has credited an amount of Rs. 16,32,958/- and Rs.
26,30,000/- toward advance received. As alleged by the Assessing
Officer in the assessment order, since the assessee could not furnish
any details, such as, names, addresses, mode of payment, etc. the
Assessing Officer added the amounts in question to the income of the
assessee. Being aggrieved of such additions, the assessee
challenged in appeal preferred before the CIT(A). 93. So far as the first addition of Rs. 16,32,958/- is concerned,
assessee submitted before CIT(A) that the actual advance indicated
in the capital account is Rs. 6,50,000/- as against Rs. 16,32,958/-
adopted by the Assessing Officer. Further, explaining the advance of
Rs. 6,50,000/-, it was stated that the amount represents advances
received from parties towards sale of plots of Gajalakshmi Gardens
and the said amounts were later transferred to the 'sales account'
when sale actually took place and was shown as income of the
assessee in the respective assessment year. It was further submitted
that the Assessing Officer without appreciating the fact that the
advances do not represent the income by itself and whenever sale of
flats are effected the amount of advances were transferred to sales
account, has made the addition. The CIT(A) after considering the
submissions of the assessee deleted the addition with the following
observations: 94. So far as the second addition of Rs. 26,30,000/- is concerned,
the assessee also advanced similar arguments as in the case of
addition of Rs. 16,32,958/-. The CIT(A) deleted the addition by
observing as under: 95. We have heard the submissions of the parties and perused the
orders of the revenue authorities as well as other materials on record.
As can be seen from the assessment order, the Assessing Officer has
made additions in a summary manner without discussing the issue
elaborately. The CIT(A) on considering the facts that the amounts
reflected in the capital account are only advances received from
parties towards sale of plots and subsequently when sale has actually
taken place the amount was transferred to the sales account and
offered as income by the assessee has deleted the addition. This fact
has not been controverted by the learned DR. In that view of the
matter, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the CIT(A) in
deleting the addition, considering the fact that the assessee has
shown the advances as income when the sale has crystallized. This
ground is, therefore, dismissed. 96. Ground No. 4 relates to deletion of addition made of an amount
of Rs. 13,67,631/- on account of unexplained cash credits. 97. During the assessment proceeding, Assessing Officer noticed
that the assessee in the year under consideration has taken the
following loans: Though assessee submitted affidavits from the creditors along with
other evidences like, pattadar passbooks, crops grown, income
earned by the creditor, mode of payment etc. but the Assessing
Officer by simply observing that the creditors being agriculturists are 45 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

not identifiable and therefore credits are not verifiable and further the
credits being without interest is unusual, added the amounts to the
income of assessee. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of
the assessee while deleting the addition made on account of loan
taken from Shri K. Rajasekhar - Rs. 64,231/- directed the Assessing
Officer to verify the loan of Rs. 13,02,900/- received from M/s Viking
Realtor Building (P) Ltd. by taking up the issue with the concerned
Assessing Officer of M/s Viking Realtor Building (P) Ltd. The
observations made by the CIT(A) in this regard is extracted
hereunder: 98. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of revenue
authorities as well as other materials on record. So far as the loan of
Rs. 64,231/- taken from Shri K. Rajasekhar is concerned, it is not
disputed that it was advanced through banking channel by way of
cheque/DD. The creditor has also confirmed the loan by furnishing
affidavit. The assessee has also furnished the evidences with regard
to the source of income of the concerned creditor. Therefore, the
Assessing Officer without causing any enquiry to prove the fact that
creditor has no creditworthiness is not justified in making the addition.
We therefore do not find any infirmity in the order of CIT(A) in
deleting the addition considering the fact that the assessee has not
only established the identity of the creditor but has also the
creditworthiness of the creditor and as there cannot be any doubt with
regard to genuineness of the transaction since it is made through
proper banking channel. 99. So far as the loan amount of Rs. 13,02,900/- is concerned,
there cannot be any grievance with regard to direction of CIT(A) as he
has directed the Assessing Officer to refer the matter to the
concerned Assessing Officer of the creditor M/s Viking Relaiter
building (P) Ltd. to ascertain the genuineness of the transaction. We,
therefore, do not find any infirmity in the order of the CIT(A), which is
accordingly confirmed on this issue by dismissing the ground raised
by the department. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 100. Ground No. 5 relates to the issue of addition made of an amount
of Rs. 1,25,00,000/- towards unexplained investment, which was
deleted by the CIT(A). 101. Briefly the facts are, on the basis of material seized at the time
of search and seizure operation viz, unregistered sale agreement-
cum-GPA dated 02/11/2006 marked as annexure A/KCRN/05,
Assessing Officer noted that the assessee and his wife Smt. K. Aruna
Kumari purchased the property to the extent of 30.15 acres in
Kothapalem Village from Sri K. Hemanth Babhjee, K. Damodhar, P.
Satyanarayana and G. Srinivasulu Reddy for a consideration of Rs.
5,15,42,595/-. As mentioned by the Assessing Officer in the
assessment order, when the assessee was questioned about this
investment, he admitted the transaction and offered Rs. 2 crores as
undisclosed investment and the balance investment out of loan taken
from various persons. The Assessing Officer alleging that as per the
seized document Rs. 1,25,00,000/- was paid as advance on
02/02/2006 made the addition. Assessee challenged the addition
before the CIT(A). In course of hearing of appeal before the CIT(A),
assessee submitted that during post search proceedings, the land
owners were examined on oath by the departmental authorities and in
the statement recorded, they clearly stated that they have not
received the consideration mentioned in the said agreement and the
lands were also not purchased by the assessee and in fact the lands
were purchased by some other persons namely N. Sunitha, A.
Lokanatha Reddy, M. Shamsunder Reddy, K. Bhuvaneswara Naidu, P.
Ananda Naidu, Madala Chaitanya, B. Muni Rami Reddy, N. Ekambara
Naidu, etc. It was submitted by the assessee that no other material
except unregistered document not signed by the assessee, was found
to show that the assessee has become owner of the property and the
amount of Rs. 1.25 crores was actually paid by the assessee to the
vendor on 02/02/2006. Assessee also submitted that as the
agreement was not signed by the assessee and the vendors have 48 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

asserted that the transaction was not effected by them, the addition
made by the Assessing Officer ignoring such fact is not justified. In
support of such contention, the assessee also furnished copies of the
affidavits of the original vendors as well as the persons to whom
subsequently the land in question was sold. It was explained by the
assessee that the land owners have created the document for the
purpose of increasing the value of the land. The CIT(A) after
considering the submissions of the assessee in the light of the
materials on record, deleted the addition with the following
observations: 102. The learned DR submitted before us that the seized document
i.e. "A/KCRN/05 clearly indicates that the assessee paid Rs.
1,71,55,000/- to some of the sellers on 25/08/2006. This evidence in
the form of receipt by the sellers along with the seized agreement of
sale marked as Annexure A/KCRN/05 proved the fact that the
transaction was real and consideration has changed the hands. 103. The learned AR strongly contesting the contentions of the
argument of the Department submitted that the seized material
marked as A/KCRN/05 cannot be said to be authentic as the
correctness and the entries made in the said document was enquired
into by the department in two stages i.e. firstly by the ADIT during the
course of search proceedings and finally by the Assessing Officer in
the questionnaire issued on 19/10/2009. It was submitted that
immediately after search when K. Hemanth Babhji was examined on
oath 13/10/2007 by the ADIT, Tirupathi, Shri K. Hemanth Babji in
reply to specific query made in respect of the receipt of the alleged
sale consideration of Rs. 5,15,42,595/- as mentioned in the seized 52 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

material marked as A/KCRN/05, categorically stated that the said
document was only created for business promotion purposes and he
has not received any money. He further stated that he has not sold
the property to the assessee. Similarly, another land owner Shri P.
Satyanarayana in response to the question put to him stated in his
sworn deposition recorded on 13/10/2007 that he has not received
any consideration towards sale of property to the assessee and Smt.
K. Aruna Kumari and the property was not registered in the name of
the assessee or Smt. K. Aruna Kumari. It was submitted that even in
response to the query made by the Assessing Officer during the
assessment proceeding relating to the AY 2007-08, it was clearly
stated by the assessee that the transaction did not take place and the
so called receipts does not bear any date. Therefore, the conclusion
drawn by the Assessing Officer is not correct. 104. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record
as well as the orders of the revenue authorities. On going through the
finding of the CIT(A) we do not find any infirmity in the order of the
CIT(A) in deleting the addition. It is not disputed that the document in
question on the basis of which Assessing Officer has made the
addition is an unregistered document and not signed by the assessee.
It is also a fact on record that original land owners in the post search
proceedings have categorically denied of having sold the property in
question to the assessee or receiving any consideration towards
proposed sale of the property. It is also a fact on record that property
in question has ultimately found to have been sold to various other
persons and not the assessee and Smt. K. Aruna Kumari. In these
circumstances solely relying upon the seized document marked as
Annexure A/KCRN/05 addition could not have been made by the
Assessing Officer when the evidences brought on record clearly
indicate that the sale was neither effected to the assessee nor
payment has been made by the assessee. In absence of any other
material brought on record to establish the fact that unregistered sale 53 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

agreement was acted upon or the money actually changed hand it is
not possible to sustain the addition. We are, therefore, of the view
that the CIT(A) was justified in deleting the addition in absence of any
corroborative evidence to establish the fact that assessee has
actually paid an amount of Rs. 1.25 crores. As a result, the ground
raised is dismissed. 105. Ground No. 6 relates to the addition of an amount of Rs.
4,82,32,313/- deleted by the CIT(A). 106. Briefly the facts relating to the issue in dispute are during
search proceeding, in case of KCR Homes and Developers certain
papers containing huge transactions along with interest particulars to
the tune of Rs. 467 lakhs and interest of Rs. 15,30,313/- were found
and seized vide annexure No. A/KCR/58. During the assessment
proceeding when the Assessing Officer confronted the seized material
and called for the explanation, the assessee stated that the entries
made in the paper are only with regard to discussions and estimations
prepared by some brokers by updating the value of lands and
expecting probable corrections and actually no transaction has taken
place. The Assessing Officer, however, mentioning that the
explanation of the assessee is not acceptable in absence of any
evidence adduced by the assessee added the amount of Rs.
4,82,32,313/-. Aggrieved, assessee challenged the addition before
the CIT(A). In course of hearing before the CIT(A), it was contended
by the assessee that loose slips found and seized during the search
and seizure operation do not pertain to assessee's transactions as
they are prepared by brokers and also written by assessee's staff with
regard to valuation of land, initial payments, structured period of
payment and interest in case of delay in payments etc. However,
actually no such transaction has taken place nor monies were passed
on. It was submitted that the writing on these papers were only
notings and estimation prepared by brokers by inflating the value of 54 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

the land, who have been guided by his employer Shri Y. Siddaiah
Naidu. It was submitted that according to the Assessing Officer the
said amount represent the amount given by one Sri Siddaiah Naidu.
However, it was not the case as the assessee has not raised any loan
from Sri Y. Siddaiah Naidu either in cash or through bank and as Sri
Y. Siddaiah Naidu was employed with him during that time and
scribbling might have been made in his presence. To dispel the doubt
created that the assessee might have obtained loan from Sri Siddaiah
Naidu, it was submitted that search has taken place at the residence
of Sri Siddaiah Naidu and there was no finding of any valuable
investment and on examination on oath Sri Siddaiah Naidu had
deposed that he did not give any loans to the assessee. It was
submitted that there being no evidence to show that the assessee has
actually received the sum of Rs. 4,82,32,313/- from Sri Y. Siddaiah
Naidu and there being no evidence to show that such cash was
available either with the assessee or with Sri Y. Siddaiah Naidu, no
addition can be made. It was further clarified by the assessee that the
actual amount as mentioned in the seized material is Rs.
4,22,32,313/- and not Rs. 4,82,30,313/- as mentioned by the
Assessing Officer. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of
the assessee vis-a-vis material on record deleted the addition by
observing as under: 107. We have heard the parties, perused the relevant materials on
record and have gone through the orders of the revenue authorities. It
is apparent form the assessment order that addition of Rs.
4,82,30,313/- was made solely on the basis of page No. 45 of seized
material marked as annexure A/KCR/58 found and seized in course of
search and seizure operation in case of KCR Homes and Developers.
A perusal of the seized material, a copy of which is at page 262 of the
assessee's paper book, shows certain amounts along with dates
having been noted there in totalling to Rs. 4,22,30,313/- including
interest of Rs. 15,30,313/-. Nothing has been indicated whether the
figures mentioned denote receipts or payments. The document also
does not bear signature of either the assessee or anyone else. It is
also a fact that this paper was seized from KCR Homes and
Developers and not the assessee. There is also no allegation that the
entries in the loose paper was made by the assessee. In these
circumstances it is not at all possible to treat the figures mentioned in 57 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

the seized document as transactions of the assessee in absence of
any other corroborative evidence brought on record to corelate the
entries made in the seized material to the assessee. In these
circumstances explanation of the assessee with regard to the seized
document cannot be rejected on mere presumptions and surmises. On
going through the order of the CIT(A) it becomes crystal clear that
CIT(A) after considering all aspects of the matter has arrived at a
finding of fact that the entries made in the loose paper cannot be
treated to be transactions of the assessee. The Department has failed
to controvert such finding of fact by bringing any other credible
evidence on record. High courts as well as different benches of the
Tribunal in a number of decisions have held that additions cannot be
made solely on the basis of loose papers found in search as they are
nothing but dumb documents unless there are other evidences to
establish the entries made in such loose papers are authentic. Some
of the decisions are referred to hereunder: 108. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1452/Hyd/2012 is dismissed. 109. Ground Nos. 1 & 2 are general. 110. In ground No. 3 the department has challenged the action of
CIT(A) in deleting the addition of Rs. 3,90,42,592/- as unexplained
investment. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 111. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as other materials on record. Identical
issue arose in ground no 5 of deparment's appeal in ITA No.
1452/Hyd/2012 (supra). Following the findings in para No. 104, we
uphold the order of the CIT(A) by dismissing the ground raised by the
department. 112. Ground No. 4 is in respect of addition of Rs. 18 lakhs made by
the Assessing Officer being deleted by the CIT(A). 113. Briefly, facts are, during search and seizure operation some
agreements relating to purchase of flats by the assessee were found
and seized. As per the agreement assessee has purchased flat Nos.
101 to 106 and 201 to 206 in Sri Vignesh Towers for a consideration
of Rs. 1,21,84,000/- and the payments were to be made in the
following manner: 115. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as other materials on record. On a perusal
of the agreement of sale seized at the time of search it is seen that
though the document is not signed by the assessee but the assessee
paid advance of Rs. 18,00,000/- to Shri Vignesh constructions for
purchase of flats. This payment of advance has been recorded in
books of the assessee which is evident from the ledger account copy
at page 69 of assessee's paper book. It is also a fact that the
agreement was not acted upon as the assessee withdrew from the
deal for poor quality of flats. The advance paid was also refunded
back to the assessee through banking channel. In the aforesaid
circumstances we fail to understand how addition can be made by
treating the advance of Rs. 18 lakhs as unaccounted investment.
Accordingly, we uphold the order of the CIT(A) on this issue. 116. In ground No.5 department has raised the issue of deletion of
addition of Rs. 36,00,000/- made on account of unrecorded
investment in land. 117. Briefly the facts are, during search and seizure operation a
number of sale deeds were found indicating investment made in land
by the assessee in his own name as well as in the name of others. By
alleging that assessee has not reflected the investments in his return
of income the assessee added the amount of Rs. 66,60,500 as
unrecorded investment. The assessee challenged the addition in
appeal before CIT(A). 118. It was contended by the assessee before CIT(A) that the seized
material on the basis of which addition is made is a document for 61 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

transfer of property in favour of the assessee by one Smt.
Kalavatamma, the owner of the property. However, though the
document was signed by the owner but the assessee never signed it.
Subsequently the owner Smt. Kalavatamma claimed that document
was never signed by her but someone else has signed it on her
behalf. It was submitted that the AO without verifying all these facts
has added the amount. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions
of the assessee and examining materials on record deleted the
addition with the following finding: , based on which, the amounts were treated as unexplained
 investment of the appellant. However, as per the subsequent
 examination, such inferences were controverted by the
 appellant by furnishing the affidavit of the shown vendor i.e.
 Smt. Kalavatamma, wherein, she has denied to have signed
 such document and no such sale has taken place and no
 amount was exchanged between the two and there is no sign
 of any further information gathered by the AO on this issue to
 controvert the contents of the affidavit filed by the vendor and
 the submissions of the appellant. Under the circumstances, I
 am of the opinion that there is no ground for
 the A.O., without bringing full facts on record and without
 controverting the submissions under this head for making the
 said addition. Accordingly, the addition of Rs.36,00,000/-
 stand deleted." 119. Having heard the parties and perused the materials on record,
we do not find any infirmity in the order of the CIT(A). Undisputedly,
the addition has been made by the AO solely on the basis of the sale 62 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

agreement allegedly executed by Smt. Kalavatamma, the owner of the
property. However, not only the document is not signed by the
assessee but Smt. Kalavatamma has also disowned the document by
stating in an affidavit that she never signed any such document nor
has received any money from the assessee towards sale of the
property. The ld. DR has not brought any material before us to
controvert these facts. In the aforesaid view of the matter, the finding
of the ld CIT(A) deserves to be upheld. The ground raised is
dismissed. 120. In ground No. 6 the department has challenged the action of the
CIT(A) in deleting the addition of Rs. 75,74,097/- made by the AO. 121. Fact in brief are, during the assessment proceedings the AO
noticed that the assessee has credited an amount of Rs. 75,74,097 to
the capital account as advance received. By alleging that the
assessee could not furnish any details such as names, addresses,
amount, mode of payment etc., the AO added the advance received to
the income of the assessee. Assessee challenged the addition in
appeal before the CIT(A). 122. Before the CIT(A), the assessee submitted that the amount
represent advances received from parties on sale of plots at Ganesh
Gardens Project and the advance amount was later transferred to
sales account when plots were actually sold and shown as income in
the respective assessment year. Hence, addition of advances in the
present assessment year would amount to double taxation of same
income. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the
assessee on the basis of materials on record deleted the addition by
holding as under: 123. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record.
The AO has made the addition in a summary manner without
discussing anything. On the other hand the CIT(A) has given a
categorical finding on considering the facts and materials on record
that assessee has transferred the advances to 'sales account' on
actual sale of plots and shown them as income in the concerned
assessment year when sale has actually taken place. The books of
account of the assessee also justify the aforesaid finding. The
department has not been able to bring any adverse material to disturb
the aforesaid finding of fact. Hence, we affirm the order of the CIT(A)
on this issue by dismissing the ground raised. 124. The next issue as raised in ground No. 7 relates to deletion by
CIT(A) of unexplained credits of Rs. 12,68,164/-. 125. Briefly the facts are, during the assessment proceeding the AO
noticed that the assessee during the year has availed loans from
creditors as under: 126. The addition made was challenged by the assessee in appeal
before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) on considering the submissions of the
assessee as well as materials on record deleted the entire addition.
The observation of the ld. CIT(A) in respect of the amount of Rs.
12,68,164/- is reproduced hereunder: 127. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record.
On perusal of the order of the CIT(A) we do not find any infirmity in
the finding of the CIT(A). As is obvious from the assessment order the
assessee has discharged the initial burden cast upon him by
producing evidences to establish the identity of the creditor, their
creditworthiness and genuineness of the transaction. If the AO had
any doubt with regard to the loan transaction he should have made
proper enquiry to establish that the creditors are not identifiable or
they do not have creditworthiness or the transaction is not genuine. It
is not forthcoming from record whether the AO at all has made any
such enquiry in this regard. Therefore, without making enquiry the AO
cannot treat the loans as unexplained by simply making some
sweeping remarks. We therefore see no reason to interfere with the
order of the CIT(A). The ground is dismissed. 128. Ground No. 8 is in respect of addition of Rs. 65.50 lakhs
deleted by the CIT(A). 129. Facts in brief are on the basis of page no. 43 of seized material
marked as annexure No. A/KCR/58 the AO noted that assessee had
taken loan of Rs. 65.50 lakhs from M. Subramanyam Naidu. By
alleging that the assessee has confirmed it in statement recorded on
27/09/2007, the AO treated the amount mentioned in the seized
document as undisclosed income of the assessee. The addition was
challenged by the assessee before CIT(A). Before the CIT(A) the 66 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

assessee submitted that there is no such name or figure appearing in
the seized material referred to by the AO. It was submitted that
assessee had never taken loan of Rs. 65.50 lakhs from M.
Subramanyam. The assessee also submitted that AO has never
sought any clarification from him. On the basis of submissions made
by the assessee the CIT(A) sought AO's comment. After receiving the
seized material and deposition of the aassessee CIT(A) called upon
the assessee to clarify. The assessee submitted that the seized
material is a dumb document as no meaningful data could be culled
out from it. Assessee submitted that only because in a confused state
of mind he has said something that alone cannot be a basis for the
addition. It was submitted that addition of the same amount made at
the hands of M. Subramanyam was deleted by the CIT(A). 130. After considering submissions of the assessee in the light of
materials on record the CIT(A) deleted the addition holding as under: 131. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record.
As can be seen, the AO by relying upon the seized material has come
to a conclusion that assessee has taken loan of Rs. 65.50 lakhs from
M. Subramanyam. However, a perusal of the seized document Viz.,
pag 43 of Annexure A/KCR/58 shows that under the heading "KCR
Naidu loans" some dates and figures are noted. For ready reference
the same is reproduced hereunder: 132. In the result, appeal in ITA No. 1453/Hyd/12 is dismissed. 133. In ground No. 3 with its sub-grounds the department has
challenged the action of the CIT(A) in deleting addition of Rs.
12,92,266 being unexplained credits. 134. We have heard the parties, perused the record and have gone
through the orders of the revenue authorities. Similar issue came up
for consideration in ITA No. 1453/Hyd/2012(supra) wherein we have
confirmed order of CIT(A) dismissing revenue's ground. Following the
decision therein, we confirm the order of CIT(A) and dismiss the
ground raised by the revenue on this issue. Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 135. Ground No. 4 relates to deletion of Rs. 40 lakhs added by the
AO treating it as unaccounted investment. 136. Briefly the facts are, on the basis of an agreement found and
seized at the time of search, the AO concluded that the assessee has
made investment of Rs. 1,21,84,000 in purchasing flats in Sri Vignesh
Towers. Investment relating to impugned assessment year was
quantified at Rs. 40 lakhs and added to the total income. The CIT(A)
after considering the submissions of the assessee along with facts
and materials on record deleted the addition by concluding as under: 137. We have heard the parties and perused the orders of the
revenue authorities as well as other materials on record. This issue is
materially same to the issue raised in ground No. 4 of ITA No.
1453/Hyd/12 (supra). On going through the order of the CIT(A), we
are of the view that the finding of fact arrived at by the CIT(A) cannot
be disturbed as the department has failed to bring any material to
controvert such finding. In this view of the matter, we uphold the order
of the CIT(A) on this issue and dismiss the ground raised. 138. In ground No. 5 Revenue has challenged deletion of amount of
Rs. 40,40,000/- added by the AO as unaccounted investment. 139. On the basis of certain seized material being sale deeds and
other documents the AO concluded that assessee has invested an
amount of Rs. 42,37,000 as under: in land in the name of Aruna Kumari) RS. 1,33,000 ---------------- Total Rs.42,37,000 140. On the allegation that assessee has not reflected these
investments in his return, the AO added the amount of Rs. 42,37,000.
In appeal proceeding the CIT(A) deleted the addition by holding as
under: Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu (b) Rs.3,90,OOO/-: Represent the investment of the
 appellant in purchase of a site and the same stood explained
 through the books based on the information brought on the
 record. In absence of any adverse information brought on
 the record by the A.O., to indicate such investments of the
 appellant are unexplained, the addition made will not stand
 to the test of judicial scrutiny and as such the addition of
 Rs.3,90,OOOj- is held to be not sustainable. (c) & (d) Rs.34,OO,OOO/- & Rs.2,5O,OOO/- : As per the
 information brought on record, the said amounts represent
 the registered rights of properties as reflected through the
 sale deeds, evidenced through the any additional evidence
 to indicate that such amounts represents the
 investments of the appellant since the details indicated in
 such document are related to the persons other than the
 appellant. The appellant stoutly denied that such
 transactions do not relate to him and there is no
 adverse information to indicate that the said amounts
 belonged to him. In absence, of the relevant information,
 which can be linked to the appellant, the amounts cannot be
 attributed to the appellant and as such cannot be treated as
 unexplained investment/income of the appellant.
 Hence, the addition of Rs.34,00,000/- and Rs.2,50,000/-
 stand to be deleted. (e) Rs.l,33,OOO: Represent the investment standing in
 the name of wife of the appellant Smt.K.Aruna Kumari, as
 per the information brought on the record, who is assessed
 to tax in her own right and such investments
 are explained through her books of account. Since, the
 investments are already explained, there is no basis for
 making further additions in the hands of appellant. Hence,
 the addition of Rs.l,33,OOO stand deleted. This ground of appeal related to the addition of
 Rs.42,37,OOO/- is allowed." 141. We have heard the parties and considered the materials on
record. On perusal of the order of the CIT(A) extracted hereinabove it
becomes absolutely clear that CIT(A) after considering evidences
brought on record in respect of each item of alleged investment has
recorded a finding of fact that while investment of Rs. 3,90,000 made
by the assessee in land has been duly accounted for in the books of
account, the investments of Rs. 34,00,000 and Rs. 2,50,000 were not 73 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

made by the assessee as the seized material clearly indicate that
they relate to third parties and not assessee. The department has not
brought any evidence on record to controvert the aforesaid factual
finding. Hence, we do not see any reason to interfere with the order of
the ld CIT(A). The ground is dismissed. 142. Ground No. 6 relates to deletion of an amount of Rs. 2,20,000
by CIT(A). 143. In course of assessment proceeding the AO noticed that
assessee debited Rs. 2,20,000 as expenditure on construction of
compound wall while computing short term capital gain on sale of site.
As mentioned by AO, since the assessee could not produce any
evidence, he added the amount to the income. 144. The CIT(A) deleted the addition by holding as under: Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu 145. We have heard the parties. On a perusal of the order passed by
the CIT(A) it becomes clear that the expenditure is reflected in the
books of account of the assessee. Hence, in our view, the CIT(A) was
justified in deleting the addition. The ground raised is dismissed. 146. In Ground No. 7 department has challenged deletion of an
amount of Rs. 57,19,495/-. 147. As mentioned by the AO, seized materials revealed expenditure
incurred by the assessee in production of a movie by name 'Sindoor'.
The assessee explained that investment made is reflected in the
balance sheet. However, the AO alleging that assessee could not
produce evidence to explain source of such investment added the
amount to the income of the assessee. 148. The addition made was challenged by the assessee before the
CIT(A). Before the CIT(A) assessee submitted that in response to the
questionnaire issued by the AO the assessee has explained that the
expenditure in film production has been duly accounted for in the
books of the assessee. It was submitted that not only the expenditure
was reflected in the cash flow statement and balance sheet submitted
along with the return but details of expenditure was also furnished
before the AO. The CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the
assessee in the context of materials on record deleted the addition on
the following finding: 149. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record.
It is very much clear from the assessment order that in course of the
assessment proceeding the assessee has brought to the notice of the
AO that the expenditure emanating from the seized material has been
accounted for in the books of accounts. It is also not disputed that
the expenditure has been shown in cash flow statement and balance 76 I.T.A. No.1462 /Hyd/2012 and others Sri K.C. Reddappa Naidu

sheet. A perusal of the ledger account copy placed at pages 81 to 90
of assessee's paper book reveals such fact. When the assessee has
accounted for the expenditure in his books of account and shown it in
his cash flow statement and balance sheet, it is not understood on
what basis the AO infers that the expenditure is unexplained. We
agree with the finding of the CIT(A) that when the AO has accepted
the balance sheet of the assessee, he could not have treated the
expenditure as unexplained without bringing material to show that
entries in the books of account are not correct. In aforesaid view of
the matter we uphold the order of the Ld. CIT(A) on this issue by
dismissing the ground raised. 150. In the result, ITA No. 1454/Hyd/2012 is dismissed. 151. To sum up, all the appeals under consideration are decided as
under: