(i) Petition is hereby allowed. (ii) The impugned order dated 06.02.2024 passed by
 the Executing court in Com.Ex.No.517/2023 directing
 attachment of movables of the petitioner is hereby set aside. (iii) The matter is remitted back to the Executing
 court for reconsideration afresh by taking into
 account/ consideration the statement of objections
 filed by the petitioner and hear both sides and pass
 appropriate orders in accordance with law on or before
 26.04.2024. (iv) All rival contentions on all aspects of the
 matter are kept open and no opinion is expressed on
 the same. (v) At the instance/request of the learned
 counsel for the respondent-Decree holder, the amount
 of Rs.65 Lakhs already deposited by the petitioner-
 Judgment Debtor before the Executing court is
 directed to be released/disbursed in favour of
 respondent Decree holder without prejudice to the
 rights and contentions of the parties and making it
 subject to the final outcome of the Execution
 proceedings." (Emphasis supplied)

The coordinate Bench remits the matter back to the Executing

Court for reconsideration afresh by taking into account the

statement of objections filed by the petitioner, hear both the parties

and then pass necessary orders. The Court also recorded that

₹65/- lakhs is already deposited by the judgment debtor/ petitioner

before the Executing Court. It was directed to be released in favour

of the respondent. 9. When the matter goes back to the concerned Court, the

petitioner files an application under Section 47 of the CPC bringing

out several new grounds, for the first time before the Executing

Court, by way of statement of objections on the score that liberty 12 was reserved by this Court to file statement of objections and had

further directed the objections to be considered by the Executing

Court. After remand from the hands of coordinate Bench, the

concerned Court passes the following order, on different dates: While submitting his oral arguments, the counsel for
J.Dr also made some statement that fraud has been
committed by both D.Hr and also the officials of J.Dr and
same has to be adjudicated by this Court. He further argued
that this being an executing court as to reassess the grounds
urged by him in his objection and the decree or the award
cannot be blindly executed. He further drawn the attention of
this Court to the provisions of Order 21 Rule 58 of CPC and
submitted to the Court that there is no need for J.Dr to file a
separate suit to prove the above mentioned grounds and he
can prove the same before the executing court. 4. Per contra, the learned counsel for D.Hr made his
submissions that this Court being an executing Court has
limited scope and it cannot go beyond the decree or award
and also it cannot sit as an appellate court or reassess, re-
write its own judgment or the judgment rendered by the
arbitrator or the other Courts. 5. Since the point that was argued before the Hon'ble High
Court of Karnataka by the J.Dr. was only that his objections
were not considered by this Court before issuing attachment
warrant of movables, the very limited question i.e., now
before this court is whether this Court has right in issuing
attachment warrant of movables? 6. No doubt it is true that this Court has not passed any
considered order on the objections filed by the J.Dr before
issuing the attachment warrant of movables. 7. The counsel for J.Dr relied on following decisions: MANU/WB/0332/2002 ii) M.Abdul Kareem & Ors. v. State of Karnataka and
 others - MANU/KA/0256/2023. iv) Copy of the judgment in W.P.No.8352 of 2022 (GM - CPC ) connected with Writ Petition No.12935 of 2022
 (GM- CPC ). v) Copy of the judgment in Civil Appeal No.4258 of 2022
 dated 28-09-2022. vi) Copy of the judgment in Ex.F.A.No.18/2010 & CM
 No.18758 of 2010 dated 05-07-2011. 8. The learned counsel for the D.Hr. also relied on the
decision rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in (2009) 13
SCC 354 reported in Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Ningam
Limited and another. 9. I have carefully gone through the objections filed by the
J.Dr and the decisions relied by both D.Hr and the J.Dr. The
first judgment relied by the J.Dr is Bibhuthi Bhusan Datta's
case rendered by Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta on the para-
6 of the judgment, the Hon'ble court has raised a question to
itself. Q. How for the courts goes beyond the decree and in
para-6 of the judgment, it was observed 'it is a settled
proposition of law that executing court cannot go beyond the
decree or it can enter into question that the decree sought to
be executed was obtained by fraud or was collusive. The
second judgment in M.Abdul Kareem's case, Hon'ble High
Court of Karnataka dealt with provisions under Order 21 Rule
58, 97, 101, 103 of CPC . In 3rd judgment i.e., T.K.
Marthandan Unnithan case, Hon'ble High Court of Kerala
dealt with Order 21 Rue 58 of CPC . Now the question that
arise before this court is: Again, the petitioner defaulted in payment. Therefore, for the

purpose of further payments, the concerned Court again re-issues

attachment warrant by the following order on 30-03-2024. (Emphasis added)

The moment the aforesaid order is passed, the petitioner again

knocks at the doors of this Court with the present petition. 10. The issue now would be, whether the petitioner can plead

what was not pleaded before the Arbitrator for the first time in

execution proceedings? Therefore, it is necessary to notice the

statutory landscape and its interpretation by the Apex Court and

other High Courts. LEGAL LANDSCAPE: 11. The petitioner seeks to breathe life into its cause by

invoking fraud. Undoubtedly fraud, if established, unravels

everything, as it is always said fraud is infinite in variety - sometimes audacious and sometimes insidious, yet always

corrosive to justice. The Apex Court, has in plethora of cases,

echoed that principle in long line of its Authorities, upon which, the

learned senior counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance upon. A

few of them which are necessary to be considered would be noted. The submission of the learned senior counsel is fraud unravels

everything and it should not be construed narrowly. Concealment of

relevant and material facts, which should have been disclosed

before the Arbitrator, is an act of fraud. He places reliance on the

following judgments. 11.1. The Apex Court in the case of VENTURE GLOBAL

ENGINEERING v. SATYAM COMPUTER SERVICES LIMITED1 has observed as follows: ".... .... ..... 36. It is well known that fraud cannot be put in a
 straitjacket and it has a very wide connotation in legal
 parlance. In the decision of the House of Lords in Reddaway
 (Frank) & Co. Ltd. v. George Banham & Co. Ltd. [1896 AC
 199: (1895-99) All ER Rep 133 (HL)], Lord Macnaghten
 explained the multifarious aspects of fraud very lucidly, and
 which we quote: (AC at p. 221 of the Report). 37. The aforesaid elucidation by the learned Law Lord
 has also been accepted in the celebrated treatise on fraud
 (see Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 7th Edn., p. 1). Kerr has
 also referred to Story's Equity Jurisprudence and defined
 "fraud" as: 38. In Indian law, namely, the Contract Act , the said
 common law doctrine of fraud has been assimilated in Section 17 of the said Act. A very wide definition of "fraud"
 has been given, which is as under: (1) the suggestion, as a fact, of that which is not
 true, by one who does not believe it to be true; (2) the active concealment of a fact by one having
 knowledge or belief of the fact; (3) a promise made without any intention of
 performing it; (4) any other act fitted to deceive; (5) any such act or omission as the law specially
 declares to be fraudulent. Explanation.--Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
 the willingness of a person to enter into a contract is not
 fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such that,
 regard being had to them, it is the duty of the person
 keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself,
 equivalent to speech." 39. Therefore, this Court is unable to accept the
contention of the learned counsel for the respondent that the
expression "fraud in the making of the award" has to be
narrowly construed. This Court cannot do so primarily
because fraud being of "infinite variety" may take many
forms, and secondly, the expression "the making of the
award" will have to be read in conjunction with whether the
award "was induced or affected by fraud". 40. On such conjoint reading, this Court is unable to
accept the contentions of the learned counsel for the
respondents that facts which surfaced subsequent to the
making of the award, but have a nexus with the facts
constituting the award, are not relevant to demonstrate that
there has been fraud in the making of the award.
Concealment of relevant and material facts, which should
have been disclosed before the arbitrator, is an act of fraud.
If the argument advanced by the learned counsel for the 21 respondents is accepted, then a party, who has suffered an
 award against another party who has concealed facts and
 obtained an award, cannot rely on facts which have surfaced
 subsequently even if those facts have a bearing on the facts
 constituting the award. Concealed facts in the very nature of
 things surface subsequently. Such a construction would
 defeat the principle of due process and would be opposed to
 the concept of public policy incorporated in the Explanation." It is the submission of the learned senior counsel that Section 47 of

the CPC can be pleaded for the first time even before the Executing

Court on grounds of fraud, as well as lack of subject matter

jurisdiction. 11.2. The Apex Court in the case of STATE OF UTTAR

PRADESH v. R.K. PANDEY2 has held as follows: 2025 SCC OnLine SC 52 22 11.3. Earlier to the aforesaid judgments, the Apex Court has

held that fraud in decree can be set up in collateral proceedings in

the case of JAI NARAIN PARASRAMPURIA v. PUSHPA DEVI

SARAF3 holding: and ( 9) Asharfi Lal v. Koili [(1995) 4 SCC 163].]" 12. In the case at hand, the agreement between the two

envisages arbitration. Since respondent is an MSME, it goes before

the MSME Council. Failure of conciliation under Section 18(4) of the

MSME Act led the Council to refer the matter to arbitration. The

petitioner participates in the arbitration, suffers an award as quoted

hereinabove, chooses not to challenge the order under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The respondent initiates

execution. In the execution, the petitioner deposits ₹65/- lakhs as

attachment order was passed. The petitioner approaches this Court 25 in W.P.No.5362 of 2024 and this Court directs the concerned Court

to look into the objections and take the proceedings further. In the

objections, for the first time, new plea with regard to concealment

of facts of fraud are urged without placing any material. The Court

rejects those pleas which were ostensibly invoking Section 47 of the

CPC, on the ground that the Court cannot go beyond the award. I

do not find any error apparent in the order passed by the concerned

Court. The challenge by the petitioner is not the order so passed on

30-08-2024, but the entire proceedings of execution. 13. The petitioner is now wanting to do indirectly what he has

lost to be done directly. The proceedings arise out of arbitration. The arbitration is under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act which is

a complete code by itself and Section 34 is the only way an award

of Arbitrator can be challenged. It becomes apposite to refer to the

judgment in the case of BHAVEN CONSTRUCTION v. EXECUTIVE

ENGINEER, SARDAR SAROVAR NARMADA NIGAM LIMITED4 wherein the Apex Court holds as follows: The opening phase of Section 34 reads as

 "34. Application for setting aside arbitral
 award.--(1) Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award
 may be made only by an application for setting aside such
 award in accordance with sub-section (2) and sub-section
 (3)". (emphasis supplied)

The use of term "only" as occurring under the provision
serves two purposes of making the enactment a complete
code and lay down the procedure. 18. In any case, the hierarchy in our legal framework,
mandates that a legislative enactment cannot curtail a
constitutional right. In Nivedita Sharma v. COAI [Nivedita
Sharma v. COAI, (2011) 14 SCC 337: (2012) 4 SCC (Civ)
947] , this Court referred to several judgments and held : (emphasis supplied)

It is therefore, prudent for a Judge to not exercise discretion
to allow judicial interference beyond the procedure
established under the enactment. This power needs to be
exercised in exceptional rarity, wherein one party is left
remediless under the statute or a clear "bad faith" shown by
one of the parties. This high standard set by this Court is in
terms of the legislative intention to make the arbitration fair
and efficient. 19. In this context we may observe Deep Industries
Ltd. v. ONGC [Deep Industries Ltd. v. ONGC, (2020) 15 SCC
706] , wherein interplay of Section 5 of the Arbitration Act
and Article 227 of the Constitution was analysed as under : At the same time, we cannot forget that Article 227 is a
 constitutional provision which remains untouched by the
 non obstante clause of Section 5 of the Act. In these
 circumstances, what is important to note is that though
 petitions can be filed under Article 227 against judgments
 allowing or dismissing first appeals under Section 37 of the
 Act, yet the High Court would be extremely circumspect in
 interfering with the same, taking into account the statutory
 policy as adumbrated by us hereinabove so that 28 interference is restricted to orders that are passed which
 are patently lacking in inherent jurisdiction." (emphasis supplied) 20. In the instant case, Respondent 1 has not been
able to show exceptional circumstance or "bad faith" on the
part of the appellant, to invoke the remedy under Article 227 of the Constitution. No doubt the ambit of Article 227 is
broad and pervasive, however, the High Court should not
have used its inherent power to interject the arbitral process
at this stage. It is brought to our notice that subsequent to
the impugned order of the sole arbitrator, a final award was
rendered by him on merits, which is challenged by
Respondent 1 in a separate Section 34 application, which is
pending. 21. Viewed from a different perspective, the arbitral
process is strictly conditioned upon time limitation and
modelled on the "principle of unbreakability". This Court in P.
Radha Bai v. P. Ashok Kumar [P. Radha Bai v. P. Ashok
Kumar, (2019) 13 SCC 445: (2018) 5 SCC (Civ) 773]
,observed : (SCC p. 459, paras 36-37)

 "36.3. Third, Section 34(3) reflects the principle of
 unbreakability. Dr Peter Binder in International Commercial
 Arbitration and Conciliation in UNCITRAL Model Law
 Jurisdictions, 2nd Edn., observed: 37. Extending Section 17 of the Limitation Act would
 go contrary to the principle of "unbreakability" enshrined
 under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act." (emphasis in original)

 If the courts are allowed to interfere with the arbitral
 process beyond the ambit of the enactment, then the
 efficiency of the process will be diminished." (Emphasis supplied)

Therefore, the petitioner having lost the opportunity to challenge

the award of the Arbitrator, cannot now by indirect method seek

obliteration of execution proceedings, which is filed to execute the

award against the petitioner. 14. What the petitioner now seeks to contend is that award

was obtained by fraud. It is not the case of the petitioner that it

was placed ex parte or not afforded adequate opportunity. The plea

of fraud and several factors are for the first time placed before the

Executing Court, that too when the coordinate Bench reserved

liberty to file statement of objections. It is trite law that what

should have been done as grounds under Section 34 of the Act

cannot be raised in execution proceedings. Jurisprudence is replete 30 with several High Courts taking the view that what should have

been urged under Section 34, cannot be raised in execution

proceedings. 14.1. The High Court of Delhi in the case of ANGLO- AMERICAN METALLURGICAL COAL PRIVATE LIMITED v. MMTC LIMITED5 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 53. The legislature by using the phrase "such
 award shall be enforced in accordance with the
 provisions of the Civil Procedure Code" only intends to
 "enforce" an award in the same manner and procedure
 as contemplated in CPC without altering the nature
 and character of an award. The provisions of
 the CPC are only applicable to the extent of
 "enforcement" of an award such as attachment, sale,
 auction, detention, etc. which are reflected in Order
 21 CPC . The legislature did not intend to permit a
 challenge to an award during enforcement
 proceedings again on merits as this would be contrary
 to the objectives of the 1996 Act which aim to ensure
 finality and limited judicial interference. The challenge
 to an award is only to be made under Section 34 of the
 1996 Act. Once the award passes the scrutiny under
 Section 34 or the period to challenge an award under
 Section 34 lapses, the award becomes final and
 binding to the parties therein by virtue of Section 35 of
 the 1996 Act. 54. If the objections under Section 47 CPC are
 allowed to be entertained during the enforcement 5 (2025) SCC OnLine Del.3201 31 proceedings of an award, it would effectively open a
 second round for challenging the award which the
 legislature did not intend to do as the same would
 undermine the provision of Section 34 i.e. challenge to
 award on limited grounds available as mentioned
 therein and render the finality granted by Section 35,
 meaningless. Further, if such interpretation is allowed, the
 same would defeat the purpose of the 1996 Act which is to
 streamline arbitration and reduce the prolonged litigation. In
 addition, allowing objections would not only delay the finality
 of disputes but would also nullify the basic contours of the
 1996 Act. Any particular provision of a statute has to be
 harmoniously construed so as not to render any other
 provisions of the statue otiose/inconsistent with the other
 provisions. ... ... ... 70. As observed above, I have already held that Section 5 of the 1996 Act aims limited judicial interference.
 The legal fiction created by Section 36 of the 1996 Act,
 allowing an award to be enforced "as if it were a decree," is
 limited solely to its "enforcement" and does not equate an
 award with a decree in substance. Further, the arbitral
 proceedings are distinct from civil suits/proceedings. The use of CPC provisions is confined to enforcement mechanisms
 under Order 21 and does not allow a re-challenge to the
 award on merits, which is exclusively governed by Section 34
 of the 1996 Act. In this backdrop, the award cannot be
 termed as a decree as the same is not passed by a court.
 Also, the AT is not a "court" and an award does not satisfy
 any conditions of Section 2(2) CPC which defines a "decree".
 For the said reasons and relying on the observations
 of Shaukat Hussain case, it is clear that the award which is
 sought to be enforced as a decree and is not a "decree"
 passed by this Court where the suit is pending. Hence, on
 this ground, Order 21 Rule 29 CPC is not applicable." (Emphasis supplied)

The High Court of Delhi holds that arbitral proceedings are distinct

from civil proceedings. A challenge to the arbitral award can be 32 made only under Section 34 of the Act. Once the award passes the

scrutiny or the period to challenge the award under Section 34

lapses, then the award becomes final and binding. Challenging the

award in execution is impermissible in law. 14.2. The High Court of Allahabad in the case of LARSEN &

TOUBRO LIMITED v. MAHARAJI EDUCATIONAL TRUST6 has

held as follows: ".... .... .... 22. The issue that an award made in arbitral
 proceedings is not a decree within the meaning of CPC having been settled by the aforesaid pronouncement
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court, the provisions of Section
 47 CPC cannot be available to obstruct the execution
 of the award. ... ... ... 25. Apart from above, the extent of judicial
 intervention has been circumscribed by Section 5 of the Act.
 In other words, judicial interpretation is prohibited except as
 provided under the Act. Section 5 of the Act reads as under : 26. Thus, having regard to the provisions of Sections 5 , 12 , 13 , 16 , 34 , 35 and 36 of the Act, the
 irresistible conclusion is only grounds which can be
 pressed into service for challenge to an award is
 within the ambit and scope of Section 34 of the Act.
 Once the stage of section 34 is over and the questions
 that were raised or could have been raised at that
 stage cannot be allowed to be raised again and again
 by pressing into service section 47 of the Civil
 Procedure Code at the time of execution of award
 under Section 36 of the Act." (Emphasis supplied)

The Allahabad High Court holds that an arbitral award is to be

enforced like a decree, but it is not a decree as defined under the

CPC . 14.3. The Allahabad High Court, again, in the case of SANJAY AGARWAL v. RAHUL AGARWAL7 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 29. The applicability of Section 47CPC have been
 considered by this Court in Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. Maharaji
 Educational Trust [Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. Maharaji
 Educational Trust, 2010 SCC OnLine All 1866] where it was
 held: (SCC OnLine All para 13) 7 2024 SCC OnLine All 149 34 "The aforesaid scheme of the Act go to show that Section 34 of the Act prescribes the ground under which
arbitral award can be challenged. If no application is made
under Section 34 within the prescribed period of limitation
or the application is refused the award becomes final under Section 35 of the Act and enforceable in terms of Section 36. Section 34 of the Act enumerates specific grounds on
which an application for setting aside an award can be
made. Intention of legislature is a guiding factor for
interpreting the provision of a Statute and the same is to be
gathered from the words used in various provisions and the
scheme of the Statute. Under the 1996 Act, the grounds of
challenge having been specified by the legislature by
enacting Section 34 of the Act and finality having been
attached under Section 35, the legislature obviously did not
intend to either enlarge the scope of grounds of challenge or
to provide another opportunity of challenge after the stage
of Section 34 is over. Thus, the objection to the award on
the grounds enumerated in Section 34 of the Act once
adjudicated cannot be allowed to be raised or reagitated by
permitting to raise objection during the execution
proceedings under Section 36 by pressing Section 47CPC in
service as the same would render the provisions of Sections
34 and 35 of the Act virtually redundant. The use of words 'the award shall be enforced
under the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 in the same
manner as if it were a decree of the court' in Section
36 of the Act would not mean that the provisions of
the Code of Civil procedure with regard to execution
of decree would become applicable in the execution
of the award. Section 36 only creates a fiction that an
award would be enforceable as if it were a decree of
the court within the scope of Order 21 CPC . This
enforcement of the award under Order 21 CPC would
not attract the application of Section 47CPC simply by
use of the expression 'shall be enforceable as a
decree' in Section 36 nor Section 36 can be read
independent of other provisions contained in the Act
itself. The provisions of the Act are to be reconciled
with each other. Section 36 cannot be read out of
context and independent of the scheme of the Act.
Reference to another statute does not attract
application of such other statute to the referring
statute unless expressly provided. A reference in a
statute to another statute cannot be read in a manner
to invite inconsistency in the referring statute. Any 35 such reference, if made, has to be interpreted in the
context in which the reference is made so as not to
make inconsistent the provisions of the referring
statute itself. If it brings inconsistency, then the same
is to be avoided. If Section 47CPC is to be attracted,
then the restrictions provided in Section 34 of the Act
and finality to arbitral award by virtue of Section 35 of the Act would be redundant. Section 36 cannot be
interpreted in the manner inconsistent with the
provisions contained in the other part of the Act. That
apart the finality of the decree under the Code is
reached after the decision under Section 47CPC, if
raised. But the legislature in its wisdom thought it fit
to incorporate the scope similar to Section 47CPC in Section 34 of the Act in order to bring finality before
the award becomes executable. Same procedure
cannot be expected to be incorporated in a statute
twice. Legislature can never be interpreted to intend
repetition. At the same time, the object of the Act is
directed towards speedy and hazard free finality with a view
to avoid long drawn proceeding based on technicalities.
Therefore, having regard to the provisions of Sections 13 , 16 , 34, 35 and 36 cannot be interpreted in a manner
inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Act to attract
the provisions contained in the Code in its entirety.
Therefore, while considering the application filed under Section 36 of the Act for the execution of an award, the
court cannot overlook the scope and ambit within which the
court is to execute the award taking aid of the provisions for
execution contained in the CPC not inconsistent with the
provisions contained in the 1996 Act. Therefore, in my view,
Section 47CPC cannot be attracted despite the words 'in the
same manner as if it were a decree of the court' used in
Section 36 when the award is sought to be executed
thereunder. The matter can be viewed from another angle.
Section 47CPC provides for questions to be determined by
the court executing the decree. The said section reads as
under: Explanation I.--For the purposes of this section, a
 plaintiff whose suit has been dismissed and a defendant
 against whom a suit has been dismissed are parties to the
 suit. Explanation II.--(a) for the purposes of this
 section, a purchaser of property at a sale in execution of a
 decree shall be deemed to be a party to the suit in which
 the decree is passed; and (b) all questions relating to the delivery of
 possession of such property to such purchaser or his
 representative shall be deemed to be questions relating to
 the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree
 within the meaning of this section.'

 It is, thus, clear that in order to invoke Section
47CPC, there must be a decree. Section 2(2) CPC defines
the decree. For a decision or determination to be a decree,
it must necessarily fall within the four-corners of the
language used in the definition. Section 2(2) CPC defines
decree to mean 'formal expression of an adjudication which,
so far as regards the court expressing it, conclusively
determines the rights of the parties with regard to all or any
of the matters in controversy in the suit and may be either
preliminary or final. It shall be deemed to include the
rejection of a plaint and the determination of any question
within Section 144, but shall not include-- (a) any
adjudication from which an appeal lies as an appeal from an
order, or (b) any order of dismissal for
default'. Explanation.--A decree is preliminary when further
proceedings have to be taken before the suit can be
completely disposed of. It is final when such adjudication
completely disposes of the suit. It may be partly preliminary
and partly final. The use of words 'adjudication' and 'suit' used by
legislature clearly goes to show that it is only a court which
can pass a decree in a suit commenced by plaint
adjudicating the dispute between the parties by means of a
judgment pronounced by the court. The Hon'ble Supreme 37 Court in Paramjeet Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd. [Paramjeet
Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd., (2006) 13 SCC 322 : AIR 2007
SC 168] after considering the definition of decree as
contained in CPC in para 29 has held that 'it is obvious that
an arbitrator is not a court, an arbitration is not an
adjudication and, therefore, an award is not a decree'.
Again in para 31, it has been held that words 'decision', and
'civil court' unambiguously rule out an award by arbitrators
to be a decree. In the said case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
while considering the question as to whether an insolvency
notice under Section 9 of the Presidency Town Insolvency
Act, 1909 can be issued on the basis of an arbitration
award, held that such notice cannot be issued for the reason
the arbitration award is neither a decree nor an order for
payment within the meaning of Section 9(2) of the
Insolvency Act and it is not rendered in a suit. Thus, the
award not being covered under the definition of a decree,
objection with respect to its validity can only be raised as
provided under Section 34 of the Act and not by taking
resort to Section 47CPC. In Paramjeet Singh Patheja case [ Paramjeet Singh
Patheja v. ICDS Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 322 : AIR 2007 SC
168] , the Hon'ble Supreme Court has interpreted the words
'as if' used in Section 36 of the Act as under: Much emphasis has been laid by the learned counsel
for the applicant on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Dharma Prathishthanam v. Madhok Construction
(P) Ltd. [Dharma Prathishthanam v. Madhok Construction
(P) Ltd., (2005) 9 SCC 686] wherein it has been held that in
the event of appointment of an arbitrator and reference of
disputes to him being void ab initio as totally incompetent
or invalid the award shall be void and liable to be set aside
in any appropriate proceedings when sought to be enforced
or acted upon. However, the said case relied upon by the
learned counsel for the applicant is distinguishable and will
have no application in the facts of the present case. In the
said case when the award was filed in the court for making
rule of the court under the 1940 Act, objections were filed
by the judgment-debtor under Section 30 of the said Act
which were dismissed on the ground that they were filed
beyond the prescribed period of limitation. The intra-court
appeal preferred against the said order was also dismissed
by the Division Bench against which appeal by special leave
was filed. The dispute being under the 1940 Act, the
question of interpretation of Sections 35 and 36 of the Act
and applicability of Section 47CPC to the execution of an
award was not under consideration before the Hon'ble
Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court was
considering the validity of the objection filed under Section
30 of the 1940 Act and having found that since the
appointment of arbitrator and reference of dispute was void
and as such the award was also void and the fact that
application was filed beyond the period of limitation was not
of much significance and delay was liable to be condoned. The same can be inferred from the following observations
made in para 32 of the judgment: (SCC p. 701, para 32)

 '32. In the present case, we find that far from
 submitting to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator and
 conceding to the appointment of and reference to the
 arbitrator Shri Swami Dayal, the appellant did raise an
 objection to the invalidity of the entire proceedings
 beginning from the appointment till the giving of the award
 though the objection was belated. In ordinary course, we
 would have after setting aside the impugned judgments of
 the High Court remanded the matter back for hearing and
 decision afresh by the learned Single Judge of the High
 Court so as to record a finding if the award is a nullity and
 if so then set aside the same without regard to the fact
 that the objection petition under Section 30 of the Act filed
 by the appellant was beyond the period of limitation
 prescribed by Article 119(b) of the Limitation Act, 1963 .
 However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we
 consider such a course to follow as a futile exercise
 resulting in needless waste of public time. On the admitted
 and undisputed facts, we are satisfied, as already indicated
 hereinabove, that the impugned award is a nullity and
 hence liable to be set aside and that is what we declare
 and also do hereby, obviating the need for remand.'

 In the present case, the situation is quite different.
The applicant invoking Section 34 of the Act filed their
objection challenging the validity of the award which were
dismissed as barred by limitation. The judgment came to be
affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on dismissal of the
special leave petition. The grounds of challenge to the
arbitral award which were dismissed as barred by limitation,
were much before the Hon'ble Supreme Court but it did not
find it fit to condone the delay and to consider grounds of
challenge on merit, itself or remand back the proceedings
for the said purpose. Hon'ble Supreme Court rather chose to
affirm the orders passed by the District Judge and this Court
dismissing the objection as barred by limitation. Thus, the
reliance placed by the learned counsel for the applicant on
the aforesaid pronouncement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
is totally misfounded. Apart from above, the extent of judicial intervention
has been circumscribed by Section 5 of the Act. In other
words, judicial interpretation is prohibited except as
provided under the Act. Section 5 of the Act reads as under: '5.Extent of judicial intervention.-- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
 the time being in force, in matters governed by this part,
 no judicial authority shall intervene except where so
 provided in this part.' Section 5 of the Act falls under Part I
 which includes within its ambit Section 2 to Section 43 of
 the Act. Thus, Sections 34 and 36 are also included in Part
 I of the Act . The judicial intervention having been limited
 by the legislature, the court cannot interfere at any and
 every stage on a ground other than those available in the
 Act itself. Thus, once stage of Section 34 is over and the
 award becomes final under Section 35 , judicial intervention
 in the execution of the award under Section 36 cannot be
 held to be permissible on any ground, whatsoever, in view
 of the limitation imposed by Section 5 of the Act. Thus, having regard to the provisions of Sections 5 , 12 , 13 , 16 , 34 , 35 and 36 of the Act, the irresistible
 conclusion is only grounds which can be pressed into service
 for challenge to an award is within the ambit and scope of Section 34 of the Act. Once the stage of Section 34 is over
 and the questions that were raised or could have been
 raised at that stage cannot be allowed to be raised again
 and again by pressing into service Section 47 of the Code of
 Civil Procedure at the time of execution of award under Section 36 of the Act." (Emphasis supplied)

On a blend of the judgments rendered by the High Courts of Delhi

and Allahabad, to which I am in respectful agreement of, what the

petitioner has lost to be done directly is wanting to be done

indirectly. The challenge now is to the execution proceedings having

lost the opportunity to challenge the arbitral award. Therefore, the

challenge raised now is, on the face of it, untenable and is sans

countenance. 15. Much reliance is placed on Section 47 of the CPC by the

learned senior counsel for the petitioner. Section 47 of the CPC

reads as follows: Explanation I.--For the purposes of this section, a
 plaintiff whose suit has been dismissed and a defendant
 against whom a suit has been dismissed, are parties to the
 suit. Explanation II.--(a) For the purposes of this section, a
 purchaser of property at a sale in execution of a decree shall
 be deemed to be a party to the suit in which the decree is
 passed; and (b) all questions relating to the delivery of possession
 of such property to such purchaser or his representative shall
 be deemed to be questions relating to the execution,
 discharge or satisfaction of the decree within the meaning of
 this section." (Emphasis supplied) Section 47 no doubt permits plea of fraud to be raised. But, that

cannot be without any substance. At the outset arbitral award is not 42 a decree and the plea that was not there before the Arbitrator,

cannot be for the first time permitted to be raised in the execution,

that too invoking Section 47 of the CPC. 16. It is trite law that fraud must be specifically pleaded and

established before the appropriate fora in the original proceedings. 16.1. The Apex Court in the case of ELECTROSTEEL

CASTINGS LIMITED v. UV ASSET RECONSTRUCTION

COMPANY LIMITED8 has clearly held that unless fraud is pleaded

with full particulars, the plea cannot spring from air. The Apex

Court has held as follows: ".... .... .... 8. In Bishundeo Narain [Bishundeo Narain v. Seogeni
 Rai , 1951 SCC 447: 1951 SCR 548] in para 22, it is observed
 and held as under: (SCC p. 454)

 "22. ... Now if there is one rule which is better
 established than any other, it is that in cases of fraud,
 undue influence and coercion, the parties pleading it must
 set forth full particulars and the case can only be decided on
 the particulars as laid. There can be no departure from
 them in evidence. General allegations are insufficient even
 to amount to an averment of fraud of which any court ought
 to take notice however strong the language in which they
 are couched may be, and the same applies to undue
 influence and coercion. See Order 6 Rule 4, Civil Procedure
 Code." (2022) 2 SCC 573 43 8.1. Similar view has been expressed in Ladli Parshad
Jaiswal [Ladli Parshad Jaiswal v. Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd. ,
(1964) 1 SCR 270 : AIR 1963 SC 1279] and after considering
the decision of the Privy Council in Bharat Dharma Syndicate
Ltd. v. Harish Chandra [Bharat Dharma Syndicate
Ltd. v. Harish Chandra, 1937 SCC OnLine PC 24 : (1936-37)
64 IA 143], it is held that a litigant who prefers
allegation of fraud or other improper conduct must
place on record precise and specific details of these
charges. Even as per Order VI Rule 4 in all cases in
which the party pleading relies on any
misrepresentation, fraud, breach of trust, wilful
default, or undue influence, particulars shall be stated
in the pleading. Similarly in K.C. Sharma & Co. [Union of
India v. K.C. Sharma & Co., (2020) 15 SCC 209] it is held
that "fraud" has to be pleaded with necessary particulars. In Ram Singh [Ram Singh v. Gram Panchayat Mehal Kalan ,
(1986) 4 SCC 364], it is observed and held by this Court
that when the suit is barred by any law, the plaintiff
cannot be allowed to circumvent that provision by
means of clever drafting so as to avoid mention of
those circumstances by which the suit is barred by law
of limitation. 8.2. In T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal [T.
Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal, (1977) 4 SCC 467], it is
observed and held in para 5 as under: (SCC p. 470)

 "5. We have not the slightest hesitation in
 condemning the petitioner for the gross abuse of the
 process of the court repeatedly and unrepentantly resorted
 to. From the statement of the facts found in the judgment
 of the High Court, it is perfectly plain that the suit now
 pending before the First Munsif's Court, Bangalore, is a
 flagrant misuse of the mercies of the law in receiving
 plaints. The learned Munsif must remember that if on a
 meaningful -- not formal -- reading of the plaint it is
 manifestly vexatious, and meritless, in the sense of not
 disclosing a clear right to sue, he should exercise his power
 under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC taking care to see that the
 ground mentioned therein is fulfilled. And, if clever drafting
 has created the illusion of a cause of action, nip it in the bud
 at the first hearing by examining the party searchingly 44 under Order 10 CPC . An activist Judge is the answer to
 irresponsible law suits." 8.3. A similar view has been expressed by this Court
 in the recent decision in P. Selathal [Canara Bank v. P.
 Selathal, (2020) 13 SCC 143]." (Emphasis supplied)

Therefore, the plea of fraud sought to be set up by the petitioner

for the first time to get away with the making of payment in the

execution cannot be accepted, as it is trite law that Executing

Court cannot go beyond the decree. 16.2. It is apposite to refer to the judgment of the Apex Court

in the case of HARYANA VIDYUT PRASARAN NIGAM LIMITED

v. GULSHAN LAL9 wherein it is held as follows: ".... .... .... 17. As indicated hereinbefore, for the purpose of
 allowing an objection filed on behalf of a judgment-debtor
 under Section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it was
 incumbent on him to show that the decree was ex facie
 nullity. For the said purpose, the court is precluded
 from making an in-depth scrutiny as regards the
 entitlement of the plaintiff with reference to not only
 his claim made in the plaint but also the defence set
 up by the judgment-debtor. As the judgment of the
 trial court could not have been reopened, the
 correctness thereof could not have been put to
 question. (2009) 13 SCC 354 45 18. It is also well known that an executing court
 cannot go behind the decree. If on a fair interpretation
 of the judgment, order and decree passed by a court
 having appropriate jurisdiction in that behalf, the
 reliefs sought for by the plaintiff appear to have been
 granted, there is no reason as to why the executing
 court shall deprive him from obtaining the fruits of the
 decree. 19. In Deepa Bhargava v. Mahesh Bhargava [(2009) 2
 SCC 294: (2008) 16 Scale 305] this Court held as under: It must execute the decree as it is. A default clause
 contained in a compromise decree even otherwise would not
 be considered to be penal in nature so as to attract the
 provisions of Section 74 of the Contract Act." 20. It is also not a case where this Court can exercise
 its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India
 to mould an order. The decree passed by the learned trial
 court has attained finality. Whether rightly or wrongly, the
 judgment of the learned trial Judge has been affirmed by this
 Court. It is one thing to say that no right having crystallised
 in favour of a party to the lis, this Court can mould the relief
 appropriately, but it is another thing to say that despite the
 decree being found to be an executable one, this Court will
 refuse to direct execution thereof. 21. We are not oblivious of the fact that the
 respondents legally would not have been entitled to the
 reliefs prayed for by them. However, as a decree has been
 passed, we do not intend to go behind the same. The
 executing court shall, it goes without saying, execute the
 decree strictly in terms thereof." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that the Executing Court cannot entertain an

objection filed under Section 47 of the CPC against a decree, unless 46 it is shown that the decree suffers from an ex-facie nullity. In

execution of decree, the Court will not go behind the decree

or beyond the decree. The Executing Court would only

execute the decree in strict terms thereof. Therefore, the

plea that is now raised without any material which was

never raised, cannot be permitted to be raised in the

execution proceedings. 17. Equally untenable is the plea that because the

petitioner is a Government Corporation, public money is at

stake and special indulgence should follow. The submission

is again sans countenance. The law brooks no such

differential treatment. The Apex Court in the case of PAM

DEVELOPMENT PRIVATE LIMITED v. STATE OF WEST

BENGAL10observes that when State enters the market place, it

sheds its sovereign mantle and is bound, like any other

litigant, by the discipline of law. The Apex has held as follows: ".... .... .... 26. Arbitration proceedings are essentially alternate
 dispute redressal system meant for early/quick resolution of 10 (2019) 8 SCC 112 47 disputes and in case a money decree -- award as passed by
 the arbitrator against the Government is allowed to be
 automatically stayed, the very purpose of quick resolution of
 dispute through arbitration would be defeated as the decree-
 holder would be fully deprived of the fruits of the award on
 mere filing of objection under Section 34 of the Arbitration
 Act. The Arbitration Act is a special Act which provides
 for quick resolution of disputes between the parties
 and Section 18 of the Act makes it clear that the
 parties shall be treated with equality. Once the Act mandates so, there cannot be any special treatment
 given to the Government as a party. As such, under the
 scheme of the Arbitration Act , no distinction is made
 nor any differential treatment is to be given to the
 Government, while considering an application for
 grant of stay of a money decree in proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. As we have already
 mentioned above, the reference to CPC in Section 36 of
 the Arbitration Act is only to guide the court as to
 what conditions can be imposed, and the same have to
 be consistent with the provisions of the Arbitration
 Act ." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that arbitration proceedings are meant

for quick resolution of the dispute. In case of money decree

passed by Arbitrator against Government is allowed to be

automatically stayed, the very purpose of quick resolution

would be defeated. No special treatment should be given to

the Government as a party. 18. In the light of the preceding analysis, what would

unmistakably emerge is, that the Act is a self contained Code. Section 34 provides the exclusive remedy for challenging an award. Section 36 clothes an award with enforceability, as if it were a

decree. Jurisprudence, noted hereinabove, from the Apex

Court or other High Courts is mere unanimous that

objections which could and should have been raised under Section 34 , cannot be paraphrased into execution

proceedings under the guise of Section 47 of the CPC,

indeed, to permit such a course would convert execution into

a proxy appeal, frustrate the principle of finality and reduce

arbitration to a futile ritual. 19. A Government Corporation is dodging the issue of

payment right from 2018 to the respondent who has supplied

materials, on one pretext or the other. What is glaring is, against

arbitral award the petitioner had all the opportunity to file a petition

under Section 34 of the Act within the time limit. The time limit

having gone and impossibility of filing a petition under Section 34 of 49 the Act emerging, other steps are now taken indirectly to achieve

what it could not do directly. 20. The Court cannot lend its writ jurisdiction to

perpetuate delay and defeat the fruits of an arbitral award. The petition, therefore, is devoid of merit, being so, should

lead to its dismissal. It does lead, but not a dismissal

simpliciter, but with imposition of exemplary costs to be paid

by the petitioner to the respondent. The act of the petitioner

is a drain, on both judicial time, and the decree holder's

legitimate entitlement. Therefore, this Court deems it fit to

impose exemplary cost of Rs.1,00,000/- payable by the

petitioner to the respondent within 4 weeks. Furthermore, as

the execution proceedings have already languished for nearly 2

years, the Executing Court is directed to bring them to finality,

within 6 months from the date of receipt of copy of the order. 21. For the reasons afore-stated, the following: Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2024 also stands disposed. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE
Bkp
CT:SS