(PER : HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE A.S. SUPEHIA) 1. RULE. Learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr. Tirth Nayak waives
 service of notice of rule on behalf of the respondent. Since a short issue is
 involved in the writ petition, the same was heard extensively and is finally
 decided today by this present judgment and order. 2. We had already heard the learned advocates for the respective
 parties at length and the matter was kept today only for ascertaining that
 as to whether the current bank account of the petitioner which has been
 attached can be de-freezed. This Court on 17.02.2026 passed the following
 order :- 3. In the present writ petition, the petitioner has prayed for the
 following reliefs: 4. It is the case of the petitioner that the petitioner is providing
 technology services and earns a service/transaction fee for the services
 provided to its clients. The petitioner is registered with National
 Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) payment bank for payout services
 and an agreement to that effect is also drawn. The petitioner has
 registered itself with the GST regime of the State of Gujarat. It is the case
 of the petitioner that the petitioner was approached by M/s.Digihub
 Unique Tech Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (Digihub) which sought to avail the
 petitioner's services as Technology Service Provider (TSP) to facilitate its
 payout transactions routed by the respondent no. 2 Bank and NSDL
 payments bank. Accordingly, a Dedicated Merchant Agreement dated
 12.09.2025 was executed between the Digihub and the petitioner. 4.1. It is the case of the petitioner for facilitating the financial
 transactions for payment, respondent no. 2, as per its internal policy in
 consonance with the Regulations governing the same, opened a current
 account in the name of the petitioner bearing no. 130102000042422 and
 Virtual Account Number facility (VAN) was enabled. The said account is Page 2 of 6 Uploaded by PHALGUNI PATEL(HC00175) on Thu Mar 05 2026 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 14 04:34:38 IST 2026 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/SCA/18147/2025 JUDGMENT DATED: 23/02/2026

 undefined

 used for the purpose of updating the electronic ledger of any
 client/merchant/vendor to ensure operational and financial accuracy.
 Further, any credit disbursement to a set of recipients and beneficiaries, as
 specified by them, is processed through NSDL payments bank. 4.2. Accordingly, the declaration-cum-undertaking dated 12.09.2025 has
 be obtained by the petitioner from Digihub. The petitioner accordingly
 earned Rs.2,24,545/- as the commission against the total transaction of
 Rs.4,56,13,562/- through its platform. 4.3. It appears that the respondent no. 1 noticed the tax evasion at the
 end of Digihub and accordingly questioned the entire transaction done by
 the Digihub through the present petitioner. Thereafter, a provisional
 attachment order dated 05.11.2025 under Section 83 of the Central Goods
 and Services Tax Act, 2017 (for short " CGST Act ") was ordered and
 accordingly the Current Account and Virtual account maintained by the
 petitioner in respondent no. 2 - IDBI Bank Limited were freezed. Hence,
 this petition. 5. Learned advocate Mr. Vijay H. Patel appearing for the petitioner has
 submitted that the Digihub being the original source of fund and
 respondent no. 2 and NSDL being the banker actually are involved in
 transmitting the fund to the end beneficiaries, who are the necessary
 parties who can be appropriately inquired, insofar as the nature of the
 fund transmitted and Digihub's tax evasion, if any and as such the
 petitioner's account cannot be freezed or attached. It is submitted that the
 Digihub is a third party and is one of the merchant/vendor/client on board
 of the petitioner's portal and as no proceedings under Sections 62 , 63 , 64 , 67 , 73 and 74 of the CGST Act are pending against the petitioner and
 hence, there is no jurisdiction conferred upon the respondent no. 1 to
 invoke provision of Section 83 of the CGST Act against the petitioner. 5.1. It is submitted that even after some personal meeting was arranged
 with the respondent no. 1 and the relevant documents were also furnished, Page 3 of 6 Uploaded by PHALGUNI PATEL(HC00175) on Thu Mar 05 2026 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 14 04:34:38 IST 2026 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/SCA/18147/2025 JUDGMENT DATED: 23/02/2026

 undefined

 however, the account was not de-freezed. It is submitted that summons
 under Section 70 of the CGST Act was issued to the petitioner to provide
 details of its clients account and to remain present on 15.12.2025 and
 accordingly the personal visit was also made by the petitioner and the
 entire details were narrated and explained to the officers of the respondent
 no. 1. It is further submitted that requisite documents were also furnished,
 however, the attachment of the bank account has not yet been lifted. It is
 thus submitted that the action of the respondent no.1 in freezing the
 account is violative of Articles 14 and 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution of India
 and that too, on the basis of the some alleged tax evasion or fraud
 committed by Digihub. Thus, it is urged that since the petitioner is acting
 as a Technology Service Provider without any specific right to process any
 payments and is only entitled to the service/transaction fee for commission
 cannot be roped in for the alleged tax evasion by the Digihub who has
 transmitted the funds in the other account. It is, therefore, submitted that
 Digihub is involved in online gaming services and there is no allegation
 against the present petitioner and the petitioner was not aware of the
 business of Digihub and hence the account of the petitioner is required to
 be defreezed by setting aside the impugned order dated 01.02.2026. 6. Vehemently opposing the present petition, learned Senior Standing
 Counsel Mr. Tirth Nayak appearing for the respondent while referring to
 the affidavit-in-reply has pointed out the modus operandi of the present
 petitioner and Digihub. It is submitted that the investigation of the
 respondent categorically revealed that the petitioner in the GST
 registration has shown themselves as Service Provider of Information,
 Technology consulting and support services. It is submitted that the
 authorities had found out that the Bank Accounts and Unique Transaction
 References (UTRs) in which payouts was made by the petitioner were
 wrong and consequently, the ultimate beneficiary bank accounts into
 which the alleged online gaming proceeds originating from M/s. Digihub
 Unique Tech Solutions Pvt. Ltd., were subsequently routed through the Page 4 of 6 Uploaded by PHALGUNI PATEL(HC00175) on Thu Mar 05 2026 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 14 04:34:38 IST 2026 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/SCA/18147/2025 JUDGMENT DATED: 23/02/2026

 undefined

 petitioner's bank accounts. It is submitted that the petitioner failed to
 verify the credentials of the Digihub from its website where Digihub has
 shown himself as E-Commerce operator, however, it turned out to be
 gaming platform and projected themselves involved in the business of
 Payout Services as per the Line of Business and Use Case Declaration. 6.1. Learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr. Tirth Nayak has also further
 submitted that the Digihub is involved in the collection and distribution of
 money generated through online gaming and betting activities and further
 used their Payout Services to distribute such funds. It is further contended
 that the petitioner has admitted inconsistencies and accepted the error in
 drafting the agreement. Further, on perusal of the statements of the
 Directors of Digihub, the petitioner admitted before the authorities that
 M/s. Digihub Tech Solution Pvt. Ltd. was providing pay-in services to
 online gaming/betting merchants and the funds for which payouts were
 made by Buckbox appears to have been generated from online
 gaming/betting activities. Hence, it is apparent that no GST has been paid
 on providing this gaming/betting service resulting into loss of Government
 revenue. It is thus, submitted that there has been sheer negligence on the
 part of the petitioner as they have not verified the website of their
 merchants, exact nature of business of the merchant, GST registration and
 returns or the sample invoices of their merchants resulting in GST evasion.
 It is further urged that the respondent is currently in the process of
 analyzing the bank account of all who are involved in online gaming and
 betting services and accordingly, E-mails dated 21.01.2026 were written
 to the corresponding banks of top 15 bank accounts in which payouts were
 made asking the banks to provide the bank statement and KYC details of
 the bank accounts and whether the said account has ever been identified
 or flagged as suspicious, or linked to mule account activity or subjected to
 any debit freeze, lien or restriction. Thus, it is submitted that looking to
 the overall scam which involved the present petitioner directly, at this
 stage the bank account which has been freezed cannot be ordered to be Page 5 of 6 Uploaded by PHALGUNI PATEL(HC00175) on Thu Mar 05 2026 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 14 04:34:38 IST 2026 NEUTRAL CITATION

 C/SCA/18147/2025 JUDGMENT DATED: 23/02/2026

 undefined

 defreezed unless the entire investigation is over. 7. Having heard the learned advocates for the respective parties at
 length, the facts narrated herein-above are not in dispute. M/s. Digihub
 Unique Tech Solutions Pvt. Ltd., which has indulged itself into gaming and
 betting services though the platform of present petitioner, using its bank
 account which has been freezed by the respondent authorities is
 established from the record. From the pleadings and documentary
 evidence, it is noticed by us that there is list of 35,064 bank accounts in
 which the payouts were made by the petitioner and they are currently
 under process of analyzing such bank account by calling out the details
 from all the bank account in which the money has been lending. It appears
 that during the investigation, the petitioner has admitted about non
 verification of the credentials of the Digihub and it allowed its platform for
 illegal activities of online gaming and betting resulting into loss of
 Government revenue. Merely because the petitioner is called for an
 undertaking by Digihub cannot satisfied the requirement of law. The
 petitioner was supposed to verify the credentials of Digihub,and could not
 have exclusively relied on the undertaking. The petitioner did not even
 bother to verify the actual business from the website or by calling upon
 Digihub to submit necessary invoices to show the actual nature of
 business. Thus, looking to the enormity of the transactions involved, and
 the stage of the investigation, which is still in progress, we are not inclined
 to de-freeze the account of the petitioner, from which the entire dubious
 transactions have taken place. 8. For the foregoing reasons, the writ petition fails. Hence, the same
 stands dismissed. Rule is discharged. No order as to costs. (A. S. SUPEHIA, J)

 (PRANAV TRIVEDI,J)
 phalguni/3 Page 6 of 6 Uploaded by PHALGUNI PATEL(HC00175) on Thu Mar 05 2026 Downloaded on : Sat Mar 14 04:34:38 IST 2026