Hon'ble Ravi Nath Tilhari,J. 1.	With the consent of the learned counsel for the parties, this writ petition has been finally heard, without calling for counter affidavit. 2.	Heard Shri Adarsh Singh, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri Sanjay Singh, learned counsel for respondent no. 2, the Punjab National Bank, Subedar Ganj, Prayagraj. 3.	This writ petition has been filed praying for the following reliefs:- 4.	In paragraph nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the writ petition, the petitioner has stated as under:- 5.	The aforequoted paragraph nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the writ petition have been replied in paragraph nos. 3, 4 and 5 of the counter affidavit dated 29.01.2021 filed by the respondent nos. 2 and 3 which has been quoted below:- 6.	From perusal of the pleadings as quoted above, it is clear that the respondent nos. 1, 2 and 3 have admitted the following facts:- 7.	Learned counsel for the petitioner has produced before us the Policy/Guideline "Customer Protection-Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorized Electronic Banking Transactions" circulated by Reserve Bank of India vide RBI/2017-18/15 DBR. No. Leg. BC. 78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017. 8.	Clause nos. 5, 6, 7, 9, 11 and 12 of the aforesaid Policy/Guideline of the Reserve Bank of India are reproduced below:- Table 1
 
Maximum Liability of a Customer under paragraph 7 (ii)
 

 
Type of Account
 
Maximum 
 
liability (₹) - BSBD Accounts
 
5,000 - All other SB accounts - Pre-paid Payment Instruments and Gift Cards - Current/ Cash Credit/ Overdraft Accounts of MSMEs - Current Accounts/ Cash Credit/ Overdraft Accounts of Individuals with annual average balance (during 365 days preceding the incidence of fraud)/ limit up to Rs.25 lakh - Credit cards with limit up to Rs.5 lakh
 
10,000 - All other Current/ Cash Credit/ Overdraft Accounts - Credit cards with limit above Rs.5 lakh
 
25,000
 
	
 
Further, if the delay in reporting is beyond seven working days, the customer liability shall be determined as per the bank's Board approved policy. Banks shall provide the details of their policy in regard to customers' liability formulated in pursuance of these directions at the time of opening the accounts. Banks shall also display their approved policy in public domain for wider dissemination. The existing customers must also be individually informed about the bank's policy. 9. On being notified by the customer, the bank shall credit (shadow reversal) the amount involved in the unauthorised electronic transaction to the customer's account within 10 working days from the date of such notification by the customer (without waiting for settlement of insurance claim, if any). Banks may also at their discretion decide to waive off any customer liability in case of unauthorised electronic banking transactions even in cases of customer negligence. The credit shall be value dated to be as of the date of the unauthorised transaction. 11. Taking into account the risks arising out of unauthorised debits to customer accounts owing to customer negligence/ bank negligence/ banking system frauds/ third party breaches, banks need to clearly define the rights and obligations of customers in case of unauthorised transactions in specified scenarios. Banks shall formulate/ revise their customer relations policy, with approval of their Boards, to cover aspects of customer protection, including the mechanism of creating customer awareness on the risks and responsibilities involved in electronic banking transactions and customer liability in such cases of unauthorised electronic banking transactions. The policy must be transparent, non-discriminatory and should stipulate the mechanism of compensating the customers for the unauthorised electronic banking transactions and also prescribe the timelines for effecting such compensation keeping in view the instructions contained in paragraph 10 above. The policy shall be displayed on the bank's website along with the details of grievance handling/ escalation procedure. The instructions contained in this circular shall be incorporated in the policy. Burden of Proof 12. The burden of proving customer liability in case of unauthorised electronic banking transactions shall lie on the bank." 9.	From the facts admitted by the respondent Bank in its counter affidavit as aforenoted and the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India, it is evident that there was negligence on the part of the respondent Bank due to which a sum of Rs. ninety nine thousand and nine hundred in four transactions of Rs. 20,000/- each and one transaction of Rs. 19,900/- on 22.02.2019 and another sum of Rs. one lacs in five transaction of Rs. 20,000 each on 23.02.2019 were illegally withdrawn through electronic Bank transaction, from the salary bank account of the petitioner. As per aforenoted guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India which is binding upon the respondent Bank, the respondent Bank was to ensure immediate response and to freeze the Bank Account after the petitioner reported unauthorized transaction on 21.02.2019 10.	For the unauthorized aforesaid banking transactions in the bank account of the petitioner on 22.02.2019 and 23.02.2019 as per Clause VI of the aforequoted policy of the R.B.I., the petitioner is entitled to zero liability because the unauthorized transaction was the result of negligence on the part of the respondent Bank. 11.	 As per Clause 9 of the aforenoted policy of the Reserve Bank of India, on being notified by the customer, the bank shall credit (shadow reversal) the amount involved in the unauthorized electronic transaction to the customer's account within 10 working days from the date of such notification by the customer (without waiting for settlement of insurance claim, if any). Banks may also at their discretion decide to waive off any customer liability in case of unauthorized electronic banking transactions even in cases of customer negligence. The credit shall be value dated to be as of the date of the unauthorized transaction. 12.	Since it is admitted by the respondent Bank that despite the petitioner lodged the complaint and notified it on 21.02.2019 and yet the respondent bank had not freezed the aforesaid bank account of the petitioner, as a result of which Rs. 1,99,900 were unauthorizedly withdrawn from the bank account of the petitioner. Therefore, in terms of aforenoted clauses of the policy of the Reserve Bank of India, the bank is liable to credit the amount involved in the unauthorized transaction in petitioner's account to the extent of the transactions which took place on 22.02.2019 and 23.02.2019. 13.	So far as the transaction which took place on 21.02.2019, we are not expressing any opinion with regard to the liability of the respondent Bank in terms of clause 9 of the aforequoted policy. 14.	So far as the closure of complaint of the petitioner by Banking Ombudsman is concerned, we find that the complaint of the petitioner was closed merely on the ground that the ground of complaint do not fall within clause 8 of the Banking Ombudsman Scheme 2006. 15.	Perusal of Clause 8 of the Banking Ombudsman Scheme, 2006 shows that it does not cover the controversy as involved in the present writ petition. Therefore, the closure of the complaint by the Banking Ombudsman does not come in the way of the petitioner to get credit of the unauthorized transactions in terms of Clause 9 of the Reserve Bank of India Policy. 16.	For the reasons stated above, the writ petition is partly allowed. 17.	The respondent no. 2 i.e. the Punjab National Bank, Subedarganj, Prayagraj is directed to take action and give credit of the unauthorizedly withdrawn amount to the petitioner in terms of the aforenoted policy of the RBI, expeditiously, preferably within ten days from the date of presentation of a copy of this order. Order Date :- 24.3.2021
 
SY