1. This is a suit for recovery for an amount of Rs.1,98,000/- with interest
 from the defendants. It is averred in the plaint that defendant no.1 is a
 private bank. It is averred that the N.S.Road Branch, Kolkata, West
 Bengal of defendant no.1 is the concerned branch of the Standard
 Chartered Bank in respect of which cause qua the present suit has
 arisen. It is averred that defendant no.2 is the customer of defendant no.
 1 which has been maintaining his bank account with the said branch. It
 is averred that during the month of February-March, 2007, some
 unknown persons pilfered the demand draft booklet containing DDs SL CS NO: 75/10 1/12 No.191701 to 19150 from the Asset Recovery Branch, New Delhi of the
 plaintiff bank. It is averred that as soon as the officials of the Pochanpur
 Branch of plaintiff bank came to know of the factum of stolen demand
 draft booklet, the plaintiff bank lodged a FIR on 16.06.2007 with Sector
 23, Dwarka, Pochanpur Village Police Station, New Delhi mentioning all
 material facts with regard to missing of DDs booklet. In the said FIR, it
 was also mentioned that 12 Demand Drafts forming part of aforesaid
 missing booklet had been illegally encashed by some unknown persons
 to the tune of Rs.47,61,900/--. Further, in the said FIR, plaintiff bank
 asserted that some unauthorized individuals who were privy to the
 Branch Identification Code (BIC) of the Rajinder Nagar Branch, New
 Delhi through which the identity of Pochanpur Branch could be
 ascertained, forged the stolen demand drafts with the signatures of the
 authorized officials of the plaintiff bank, the BIC of the Rajinder Nagar
 Branch, New Delhi of the plaintiff bank and also placed a fake rubber
 stamp of the plaintiff bank on the said DDs and were presenting the said
 forged drafts at the various branches other than the plaintiff bank for
 encashment. It is averred that defendant no.1 is not cooperating with
 the plaintiff bank in furnishing the details of defendant no.2 who is an
 account holder with defendant no.1's branch located at N.S.Road
 Branch, Kolkata, West Bengal. It is further averred that plaintiff bank
 vide letter dated 31.07.2007 brought to the knowledge of defendant no.1
 about the missing of demand draft booklet and subsequent fraud
 committed in respect of DDs of the Pochanpur branch of the plaintiff
 bank. It is further averred that plaintiff bank vide its letter dated
 31.07.2007 requested the defendant no.1 to take necessary steps to
 prevent the encashment of fake DDs at the branches of the defendant
 no.1. It is averred that defendant no.1 bank has opened accounts at its
 branches in the name of some parties/customers during the period of
 June, 2007 who have no valid addresses and without any proper
 verification and as such in complete violation of Know Your Customer
 (KYC) Norms. It is averred that in violation of KYC norms laid down by CS NO: 75/10 2/12 RBI, the defendant no.1 bank has opened the gate for fraudulent
 persons to encash stolen drafts which were forged, misused and funds
 realized therefrom were illegally misappropriated causing enormous
 monetary loss to the plaintiff bank. It is further averred that defendant
 no.2, one of the account holder with the defendant no.1 bank presented
 one of the aforesaid fake drafts of Rs.1,98,000/- for encashment with
 the N.S.Road Branch, Kolkata, West Bengal of defendant no.1. It is
 averred that defendant no.1 bank being the collecting back was required
 to have followed the KYC norms which appears to have been not done
 by the defendant no.1 bank. It is further averred that defendant no.2
 chose defendant no.1 bank for opening his account with the intention of
 committing the aforesaid fraud only for the reason that the defendant no.
 1 bank was not particular about following KYC Norms of RBI. It is
 averred that plaintiff bank was left with no other remedy than to file the
 present suit for recovery. It is averred that defendant no.1 owes liability
 towards plaintiff bank to make good the loss suffered by plaintiff bank on
 account of dereliction on the part of defendant no.1. It is averred that
 defendant no.1 bank and defendant no. 2 are jointly and severally
 liable to pay to plaintiff bank a sum of Rs.1,98,000/- alongwith interest
 on monthly rest basis from the date of encashment till actual recovery of
 the aforesaid amount. Accordingly, a prayer is made to pass a decree
 for recovery of Rs.1,98,000/- together with interest @ 13% p.a.with
 monthly rest w.e.f.29.03.2007 till realization in favour of plaintiff and
 against the defendants no.1 and 2. Cost of the suit is also prayed for. 2. In the written statement filed by defendant no.1, it was submitted that the
 present suit is liable to be rejected u/O 7 rule 11 (a) Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908(hereinafter referred to as CPC ). It was submitted
 that merely because defendant no.2 was having an account with the
 defendant no.1, the same does not in law render defendant no.1 liable to
 pay the suit amount. It was submitted that no one should be allowed to
 take advantage of his own wrongs,therefore, plaintiff bank is not entitled CS NO: 75/10 3/12 in law to recovery the suit amount from the defendant no.1. It was
 submitted that defendant no.1 has been wrongly made the party to the
 present suit. It was submitted that the present suit is liable to be
 dismissed u/O 1 rule 10 CPC for mis joinder of necessary and proper
 party. It was submitted that plaintiff bank cannot have any claim against
 defendant no.1 in terms of Section 131 and 131-A of the Negotiable
 Instruments Act, 1881(hereinafter referred to as the NI Act ). It was
 submitted that defendant no.1 had acted in good faith and without
 negligence. It was submitted that payments in respect of demand draft
 deposited to the account of defendant no.2 was collected by the
 defendant bank in ordinary course of its business, in good faith and
 without any negligence. It was submitted that defendant bank cannot be
 made to suffer on account of lapse and negligence of the payee bank
 i.e. The plaintiff bank. It was further submitted that plaintiff bank has
 verified the demand draft bearing number 231706 for an amount of Rs.
 1,98.000/- sent for clearing by defendant no.1 and have cleared the said
 amount draft. It was submitted that defendant bank without any
 negligence and on good faith basis credited the proceeds of the demand
 draft to the account of defendant no.2. It was further submitted that the
 plaintiff bank was negligent in clearing the draft as the record was
 available with the plaintiff bank and plaintiff bank has failed to cross
 check the authenticity of the demand draft presented by the defendant
 bank for collection. It was submitted that the present suit has not been
 properly verified in terms of order 6 rule 15 and as such deserves
 dismissal. 3. In reply on merits, it was submitted that defendant is a foreign bank and
 is having its India Operation Head Office at 23-35 M.G.Road, Mumbai
 and not with M.S.Road Branch of the defendant no.1 bank situated at
 Kolkata. It was submitted that the plaintiff bank has been negligent in
 maintaining their records with proper security and it is on that account
 only that the demand draft booklet of the plaintiff bank was stolen, CS NO: 75/10 4/12 signatures were forged, BIC number was made available for the purpose
 of misuse and the rubber stamp was available to the public. It was
 submitted that the plaintiff bank has crossed its limits of negligence
 when the plaintiff bank has cleared the demand draft without verifying
 the same from its record. It was denied that the defendant bank has not
 cooperated with the plaintiff bank in providing the details of defendant
 no.2. It was submitted that defendant bank has informed the plaintiff
 bank that the defendant bank would provide the details to the plaintiff
 bank if the plaintiff bank obtain directions from Competent authorities
 since the information of a customer is a confidential data which cannot
 be shared unless directed by competent authorities which plaintiff bank
 failed to do so. It was further submitted that as per the record available
 with the defendant bank, the address of defendant no.2 is D-351, Ist
 Floor, Gali No.12, Laxmi Nagar, New Delhi-110 092. It was submitted
 that plaintiff bank has cleared the demand draft after due verification,
 hence defendant bank acted in good faith and without any negligence
 had credited the proceeds of the same to the account of defendant no.2.
 It was submitted that since the said account of defendant no.2 stood
 closed in the defendant bank records on 15.06.2007, the defendant
 bank could not take any steps with regard to encashment of fake
 demand draft. It was further submitted that demand draft was cleared by
 plaintiff bank on 10.04.2007 itself when the same was presented for
 clearing by the defendant bank and the same was cleared by the plaintiff
 bank. It was denied that account of defendant no.2 was opened without
 following the KYC norms prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India. It
 was further denied that the account of the defendant no.2 was opened in
 the month of June, 2007. It was submitted that the defendant bank has
 opened the savings account bearing no.53210297519 in the name of
 defendant no.2 during August, 2006 after collecting the necessary
 identity documents as prescribed by the RBI. It was denied that
 defendant bank has presented fake demand draft to the plaintiff bank. It
 was submitted that had it been so, the plaintiff bank would not have CS NO: 75/10 5/12 released the payment of the said demand draft. It was submitted that
 the demand draft was deposited by the defendant no.2 in Kolkata
 branch of defendant bank for further credit in the account held by
 defendant no.2 with the Preet Vihar Branch, New Delhi of the defendant
 bank. It was submitted that the negligence of plaintiff bank has helped
 defendant no.2 in committing fraud. It was denied that defendant no.2
 has opened the account primarily for the purpose of clearing the draft of
 the plaintiff bank and in order to commit fraud. It was denied that
 defendant bank has opened account without following the KYC Norms of
 RBI. It was submitted that allegation against defendant bank to make
 good the loss suffered by the plaintiff bank is baseless. It was further
 submitted that plaintiff bank is not entitled in law to recover the suit
 amount from the defendant no.1. It was denied that any cause of action
 has accrued in favour of plaintiff and against the defendant. Accordingly,
 a prayer is made to dismiss the suit. 4. In the replication filed by plaintiff, averments made in the written
 statement were denied and those stated in the plaint were reiterated. 5. Defendant no.2 despite being served, did not appear and accordingly,
 he was proceeded exparte vide order dated 23.03.2011. 6. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were framed vide
 order dated 01.04.2011:-- OPD-1 CS NO: 75/10 6/12 (iv) Whether the defendant no.1 was negligent in opening the bank
 account in the name of defendant no.2 who had no valid address
 without any proper verification and incomplete violation of the
 Know Your Customer(KYC) norms prescribed by the RBI?OPP (v) Relief? 7. Thereafter, the matter was posted for plaintiff's evidence by affidavit.
 Plaintiff examined Sh.Naresh Kumar Goel, Senior Manager as PW1 who
 deposed on oath all the facts as stated in the plaint. No other witness
 was examined on behalf of plaintiff. Accordingly, the plaintiff's evidence
 was closed. Thereafter, the matter was posted for defendant's evidence.
 Defendant no.1 examined Sh.Anand Prakash as DW1. No other witness
 was examined. Accordingly, the defence evidence was closed.
 Thereafter the matter was posted for final arguments. 8. I have heard Sh. Rohit Madan, counsel for plaintiff and Sh. Rahul
 Sharma, counsel for defendant no.1. I have perused the material
 available on record. 9. My finding on various issues is as under:-- 10.04.2007. Therefore, it is proved by plaintiff bank that defendant no.2
 had fraudulently encashed draft of Rs.1,98,000/- belonging to plaintiff
 bank and is liable to return the said amount to the plaintiff bank. 10. However, with regard to defendant no.1 bank, the amount of Rs.
 1,98,000/- is being claimed jointly with defendant no.2 solely on the
 ground that defendant no.1 bank did not follow the Know Your Customer
 (KYC) Norms as prescribed by RBI in opening the account of defendant
 no.2. PW1 Sh.Naresh Goel has deposed on oath that had defendant no.
 1 followed KYC norms with regard to opening of account of defendant
 no.2, the fraud committed by defendant no.2 could have been avoided. It
 is further deposed to by PW1 that there has been dereliction of duty on
 the part of defendant no.1 bank, therefore, they are liable to pay amount
 of fraudulent encashed draft of Rs.1,98,000/- by defendant no.2.
 Although PW1 in his examination in chief did not specify as to what are
 the KYC norms with regard to opening of account but in his cross
 examination PW1 deposed that KYC Norms forming part of RBI
 guidelines are that any bank before opening any account is required to
 take address proof, residence proof and identity proof of the customer.
 PW1 also deposed as to what all documents were accepted for the
 purpose of residence proof and identity proof of a customer before
 opening the account. It was admitted by PW1 in his cross examination
 that driving licence is accepted under the KYC norms as a document for
 the purpose of residence proof and identity proof. Defendant no.1 in
 order to prove that all KYC norms were followed in account opening of
 defendant have examined DW1 Sh.Anand Prakash. DW1 of the
 defendant no.1 bank has deposed on oath that at the stage of opening
 the account of defendant no.2, they have obtained the necessary CS NO: 75/10 8/12 identity documents of defendant no.2 in the form of driving licence, copy
 of which has been filed on record as Ex.DW1/2. Therefore, it is proved
 by defendant no.1 bank that they had followed KYC norms in opening
 the account of defendant no.2. 11. It has also come in the evidence of PW1 that plaintiff bank was aware in
 the month of February-March, 2007 regarding loss of blank demand
 drafts. The draft in question has been encashed on 11.04.2007 through
 branch of plaintiff bank at Kolkata by paying the amount into the account
 of defendant no.2 which was being maintained with the defendant no.1
 bank. However, it is also admitted by PW1 that first intimation with
 regard to stolen demand drafts was sent by plaintiff bank on 31.07.2007
 to defendant no.1 bank. Since as per own case set up by plaintiff bank,
 draft stood encashed on 11.04.2007 and defendant no.1 bank was
 intimated only on 31.07.2007, therefore, there was nothing with the
 defendant no.1 to have stopped withdrawal of Rs.1,98,000/-. The
 negligence, if any is on the part of plaintiff bank in delaying the sending
 of information with regard to draft in question to the defendant no.1 bank
 due to which amount was withdrawn fraudulently by defendant no.2.
 Therefore, looked at from any angle, no liability can be fastened upon
 defendant no.1 bank for fraudulent encashment of draft by defendant no.
 2 as defendant no.1 bank acted in good faith without having knowledge
 regarding the draft being stolen. 12. Therefore, plaintiff has failed to prove either the negligence of the
 defendant no.1 bank or non-compliance of RBI guidelines with regard to
 KYC norms in opening the account of defendant no.2. Further it is an
 admitted position by plaintiff bank that amount of draft no. 231706 has
 been encashed by defendant no.2 and not by defendant no.1 bank.
 Since it is proved on record that defendant no.1 bank had complied with
 the KYC norms in opening the account of defendant no.2 and draft has
 been encashed by defendant no.2, therefore, plaintiff bank cannot CS NO: 75/10 9/12 recover the amount of Rs.1,98,000/-from the defendant no.1 bank. 13. In the light of above discussion, issue is decided in favour of plaintiff qua
 defendant no.2. However, with regard to defendant no.1, it is held that
 plaintiff bank is not entitled to recover amount of Rs.1,98,000/- from the
 defendant no.1 bank. 14. Issue No.2
 Whether the suit is liable to be dismissed qua defendant no.1 on
 the ground of mis-joinder of parties?OPD-1
 The onus to prove this issue was upon the defendant no.1. it is
 admitted by PW1 Sh.Naresh Goel in his examination in chief that draft of
 Rs.1,98,000/- belonging to plaintiff bank was fraudulently encashed by
 defendant no.2. It is also proved on record in the light of my finding
 given to issue no.1 that defendant no1 bank had followed the RBI
 guidelines in opening the account of defendant no.2. Therefore, there
 was no cause of action qua defendant no.1 bank for recovery of Rs.
 1,98,000/-. Hence, it is proved on record that suit is bad for mis joinder
 of parties i.e.defendant no.1 bank. However, suit cannot be dismissed
 on the ground of mis joinder in the light of Order 1 rule 9 CPC . This
 issue is decided accordingly in favour of defendant no.1 and against the
 plaintiff. 15. Issue No.3
 Whether the plaintiff bank can not recover any amount from
 defendant no.1 in the light of Section 131 and 131 A of NI Act 1881?
 OPD-1
 This is a legal issue and can be disposed of based upon the
 submission made bu respective counsels and after perusing the legal
 provisions i.e. Section 131 and 131A of the NI Act. Section 131 of the NI
 Act provides that a banker who has in good faith and without negligence
 received payment for a customer of a cheque/draft shall not, in case the CS NO: 75/10 10/12 title to the cheque/draft proves defective,incur any liability to the true
 owner of the cheque/draft by reason only of having received such
 payment. 16. In the present case, it has been proved that payment received by
 defendant no.1 bank in the account of defendant no.2 was received in
 good faith and without their being any negligence on their part. The
 defendant no.1 bank has followed the KYC norms in opening the
 account of defendant no.2 and the payment was received in the account
 of defendant no.2 on 11.04.2007 i.e.much prior to intimation sent by
 plaintiff bank on 31.07.2007 regarding the draft being stolen. Therefore
 as per Section 131 of the NI Act, since defendant no.1 acted in good
 faith and without negligence, they are not liable to make payment to
 plaintiff. This issue is decided accordingly in favour of defendant and
 against plaintiff. 17. Issue No.4
 Whether the defendant no.1 was negligent in opening the bank
 account in the name of defendant no.2 who had no valid address
 without any proper verification and incomplete violation of the
 Know Your Customer(KYC) norms prescribed by the RBI?OPP
 The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiff PW1 has
 deposed on oath that defendant no.1 bank was negligent in opening the
 account of defendant no.2 as they did not follow the KYC norms
 prescribed by RBI. Although PW1 Naresh Goel did not specify in his
 examination in chief as to what are the KYC norms but in his cross
 examination, it was clarified that under the KYC norms, a bank is
 required to take address proof, residence proof and identity proof of a
 customer before opening the account. It was also admitted by PW1
 Sh.Naresh Goel that driving licence is an accepted document/proof for
 the purpose of residence and identity. Defendant no.1 bank has proved
 on record in the light of unchallenged testimony of DW1 and the CS NO: 75/10 11/12 documents i.e. statement of account of defendant no.2 Ex.DW1/1 and
 driving licence of defendant no.2 Ex.DW1/2 that KYC norms with regard
 to defendant no.2 were duly followed by taking driving licence Ex.DW1/2
 as address proof and identify proof of defendant no.2. Therefore, there
 was no negligence on the part of defendant no.1 bank in opening the
 account of defendant no.2. This issue is accordingly decided in favour of
 defendant no.1 and against plaintiff. 18. Issue No.5
 Relief
 In the light of my finding given to issues no.1,2,3 and 4, suit of
 plaintiff qua defendant no.1 is hereby dismissed. However, suit is
 decreed against defendant no.2 and he is directed to pay Rs.1,98,000/-
 to the plaintiff bank. Defendant no.2 is further directed to pay interest @
 13% p.a.w.e.f.10.04.2007 on the decreetal amount till realization. Cost of
 the suit is also awarded in favour of plaintiff bank and against the
 defendant no.2. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be
 consigned to record room.