PER BHARATKUMAR PANDYA, MEMBER 1. The present Revision Petition has been filed by the Petitioner/opposite party
against the order dated 21.10.2021 passed by the State Commission, Karnataka, in
First Appeal No. 825 of 2020, whereby while confirming the order of the District
Forum, appeal of the OP bank was dismissed. 2. Brief facts of the case are that respondent/complainant approached petitioner
bank on 01.08.2014 for opening of a saving account. The same was opened and the
mobile number and email of the respondent got registered with the petitioner bank.
Between 23.04.2019 to 27.04.2019, SMSs were sent to the mobile number of the
respondent about logins of the saving account over the Net Banking but respondent
did not gave any response to the SMSs. However, on 11.05.2019, respondent
lodged an FIR with the police for fraudutent transfer of an amount of Rs.1,42,933/- from his bank account. On 13.05.2019 Respondent filed a written complaint with the
petitioner stating that there was unauthorized online transaction in her account and
someone credited Rs.8,11,203.84 and debited 9,54,137.09 and the respondent
further informed that she has only lost about Rs. 1,42,933.25/-. After thorough
examination and investigation on the complaint of the respondent, petitioner Bank
vide letter dated 07.08.2019 apprised the Respondent that login can be done only
with the login id and password which are confidential details and are known to the
customer only and the confidential details might have been shared by the
respondent to someone knowingly or unknowingly. On 12.09.2019, the Respondent
sent legal notice to the petitioner but when bank did not respond to her legal notice,
she was compelled to file a consumer complaint bearing CC-1697/2019 before the
Bangalore Urban II additional District consumer dispute Redressal Bangalore. As
per the petitioner bank, District Forum, without giving them the opportunity of being
heard, passed an impugned order dated 22.06.2020 in favour of the
respondent/complainant which is reproduced as under: litigation to the complainant. We proceed to pass the following final; ORDER
 The complaint is allowed in part. The opposite party bank is directed to pay Rs.9,52,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakhs
 Fifty Two Thousand only) with interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of
 complaint till realization to the complainant. The opposite party is also directed to pay Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand
 only) towards compensation and Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees Five Thousand only) towards cost
 of litigation to the Complainant." 3. Being aggrieved by the order dated 22.06.2020 passed by the District Forum,
petitioner bank preferred an appeal, before the State Commission. State
Commission, after appreciating the facts and evidences on record, dismissed the
appeal of the petitioner bank and passed an order on 21.10.2021 which is
reproduced as under: reasons to set aside or remand back the case to the Commission below. Because, we
 feel that, whatever the OP-Bank intends to submit before the District Commission by
 filing its written version in respect of its case, has submitted before this Commission by
 filing its written arguments before this Commission and hence, we do not find any
 solid reasons to interfere with the order passed by the Commission below, as we
 do not find any prompt attempt of OP-Bank towards its customer in redressing the
 grievance, which of course amounts to deficiency in service on the part of OP-Bank.
 Hence, the Commission below has rightly passed impugned order in favour of
 complainant, does not call for any interference. Accordingly, Appeal No. 825/2020 is
 hereby dismissed with no order as to costs. Amount in deposit is directed to be transferred to the concerned D.F. for needful. " 4. We have heard learned counsels for the both the parties and have carefully
gone through the entire material on record. It is the contention of the petitioner bank
that how can the bank be held liable for the fraudulent transactions in the
respondent's bank, when such transactions can only occur if the customer knowingly
or unknowingly shared confidential login details. The transaction in the instant case
has been done through IMPS and for utilizing the net banking, personal credentials
of the respondent i.e. the Login id and the password are must and no transaction
can take place without login id and password of the customer/respondent. It is
further averred by the petitioner bank that when saving account of the respondent
was logged in over the net banking, triggered SMSs were sent on the respondent's
registered number but respondent took no note of the same. The respondent was
aware of the fact that the SMS trigger of the account login was duly sent to her and
the transactions could not take place without the login id and the password which
are known only to her. The RBI has issued guidelines which clearly stipulates that in
cases where the loss is due to negligence of the customer such as where he has
shared the payment/log in credentials, the customer will bear the entire loss till the
time he reports the unauthorized transaction to the bank and only the loss occurring
after the reporting of the unauthorized transaction shall be borne by the bank. As per
RBI circular dated 06.07.2017, bank is bound to credit the amount involved in the
unauthorized transaction to the customer's account within 10 working days from the
date of intimation and to the contrary the RBI circular clearly stipulates that in case
where the loss is because of the negligence of the customer such as wherein he has
shared the payment credentials, in such cases the customer shall be liable for the
loss. 5. It is further contented by the petitioner bank that in the FIR lodged by the
respondent, she has mentioned the loss only to the tune of Rs. 1,42,933.25/-
whereas in her consumer complaint she claimed an amount of Rs.9,52,000/-. As per
petitioner bank, both the fora below have erred in passing the orders without going
into the merits of the case and without providing an opportunity of being heard to the
petitioner bank. District Forum has failed to consider the major averments of the
petitioner and the State Commission also confirmed the order of the District Forum
without giving reasons in support of their decision and that too in violation of the
limited liability clause of RBI circular no. DBR No. LEG.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18
dated 06.07.2017. As per petitioner bank, both the fora below have erred in passing
the orders in as much as the orders were passed without respondent establishing
that her registered mobile number was either tempered or duplicate SIM was issued.
The burden to prove that SIM of the respondent was swapped was on the
respondent and not on the petitioner and the same was missing in the orders of the
State Commission as well as District Forum. 6. Per contra, it is the submission of the respondent-complainant that she is an
old customer of the petitioner bank and is having an SB account and she also
opened an FD account with them in the month of January, 2019 for a period of 14
months from 28.01.2019 to 28.03.2020 and the maturity amount was
Rs.8,77,333.45/-. On 10.05.2019 some stranger operated her SB and FD account
and her entire money from both the accounts consisting of Rs.9,54,137.09/- was
fraudulently transferred to some unknown account. She informed the petitioner bank
about the same and requested the branch manager to redeposit her money back to
her account but bank instead of taking any steps, told her to address here grievance
through customer care centre. Respondent immediately lodged complaint before the
customer care centre but on not receiving any reply either from the bank or from
customer care centre, respondent had no other option but to approach the consumer
fora. It is contended that the petitioner Bank had not appeared or filed written version
before the District Forum and therefore the allegations of negligence or the receipt of
and overlooking of alleged SMSs have remained wholly unsubstantiated on record
and that the fora below have rightly found deficiency in service of the petitioner and
granted due compensation. 7. After hearing the counsels and after perusal of the complete record, we firstly
note that the complainant immediately intimated the bank on the next working day Page 4 of 8 about the unauthorized liquidation of her fixed deposit receipts and also about the
unauthorized withdrawals of a total amount of Rs.9,52,000/- from the said SB
account. The bank statement clearly indicates that serialized withdrawals through
unauthorized logins happened at odd hours, for which, as per the petitioner bank,
the complainant received the SMSs, which were ignored and therefore it is the
complainant's negligence which has caused or contributed to the loss suffered by
the complainant and there is no accountability of the petitioner bank. It must be
noted however, that before the District Forum, there was no valid defence filed by
the petitioner bank within time and hence the right to file such defence was closed.
The State Commission has noted that practically a chance of filing the written
version was afforded by the State Commission itself when all the submissions of the
petitioner bank were taken on record and considered. However, after hearing the
parties and after considering the RBI circular of 06.07.2017, the State Commission
still concurred with the decision of the District Forum by holding in para 8 of the
order that the OP bank is bound to credit the amount of unauthorized debits to the
customer's account. The State Commission, in concurrence with the findings of the
District Forum, held the petitioner bank liable for deficiency in service and
accountable for loss suffered due to unauthorized transactions. The petitioner bank
has relied on the circular of the RBI DBR No. Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated
06.07.2017, to contend that there is no liability of the bank when the
customer/account holder has been negligent. The same is reproduced as under: 7. A customer shall be liable for the loss occurring due to unauthorised

 transactions in the following cases: Table 1
 Maximum Liability of a Customer under paragraph 7 (ii)

 Type of Account Maximum
 liability
 (Rs.)

 BSBD Accounts 5,000
 • All other SB accounts
 • Pre-paid Payment Instruments and Gift
 Cards
 • Current Cash Credit/ Overdraft
 Accounts of MSMES
 • Current Accounts/ Cash Credit/
 Overdraft Accounts of Individuals with
 annual average balance (during 365
 days preceding the incidence of fraud)/ 10,000
 limit up to Rs. 25 lakh
 • Credit cards with limit up to Rs. 5 lakh

 All other Current/Cash Credit/ Overdraft
 Accounts
 Credit cards with limit above Rs. 5 lakh 25,000

 Further, if the delay in reporting is beyond seven working days, the customer liability
 shall be determined as per the bank's Board approved policy. Banks shall provide the
 details of their policy in regard to customers' liability formulated in pursuance of these
 directions at the time of opening the accounts. Banks shall also display their approved
 policy in public domain for wider dissemination. The existing customers must also be
 individually informed about the bank's policy. " 8. Mr. Lakshit Raj Gaur for the petitioner bank before us also has tried to find
support from clause 7(i) of the RBI circular by alleging that the SMSs for relevant
transactions were sent on the registered mobile number, that there is two factors
security authentication and hence transactions could not have taken place unless
the OTP received on the registered mobile number was fed into the system, or login
id and password had been shared by the complainant herself. The remote access to
the customer's account were attempted even much prior to the date of incident of
loss, i.e. on 23, 25, 26, and 27 April and Sth of May, 2019, though no successful Page 6 of 8 withdrawal could be achieved by the miscreants, for which also the SMSs must have
been received by the complainant. The complainant in ignoring such SMSs herself
has been negligent in not intimating in time to the petitioner bank. Thus, as per the
circular clause 7(i), the liability entirely is on the customer and there is no deficiency
in service of the bank. The learned counsel relied on the decision of Kerala High
Court in Vinayakumar K. Vs. State Bank of India & Ors. 2025 SCO Online Ker 4139
(para 5 and 8) to contend that when the customer has been negligent in sharing the
login details, the case would be governed by para 7(i) of the RBI circular dated
06.07.2017. 9. Responding to the same, Mr. Badrinath, on behalf of the respondent
submitted that the RBI circular is being misread by the petitioner bank and that there
is absolutely no negligence on the part of the complainant. In the absence of written
reply and requisite evidence filed before the District Forum, it is not a valid
contention that the complainant has ignored the SMSs for the attempted logins prior
to the date of loss or that the complainant has been otherwise negligent. The very
fact that the system of the petitioner bank allowed the transactions of transfer from
FD account to SB account and thereafter to three different accounts on the same
day at odd times would positively show that not only there is no negligence of the
respondent but also that the system of the petitioner bank itself has malfunctioned
and has wrongly allowed the transfers without lapse of 24 hours after the transferee
bank account details were added by the miscreants in the system. The complainant
on the first working after the incident of loss intimated to the bank but the amount
has neither been retrieved nor necessary further steps taken by the petitioner bank.
Thus, on facts, both the fora below have rightly concurrently found deficiency in
service on the part of the petitioner bank. No interference is, therefore, within the
limited revisional jurisdiction, is called for by this Commission. 10. We having carefully gone through the material on record, are not inclined to
interfere with the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the fora below. First, the
averments in the complaint and the evidence before the District Forum, in the
absence of valid defence, are unable together to even remotely suggest that there is
any negligence on the part of the complainant. The nature and frequency of the
transactions and the time of such transactions (i.e. 7 PM and 12 to 1 midnight) leave
no doubt in our mind also that this is either a system glitch or some kind of hacking
of which the complainant has been the victim. Immediate intimation was given by the Page 7 of 8 3 complainant. Therefore, in not acting in terms of RBI circular of 06.07.2017, and
otherwise having.failed in being an efficient custodian of the complainant's funds, the
petitioner bank has rightly been found to be deficient in service by the fora below. In
our considered opinion also, even in the best case scenario for the petitioner bank
and even assuming some contributory negligence of the complainant, the present
case is squarely covered by clause 6(a) of the RBI circular (supra) specifying "zero
liability" of the customer. It is the duty of the bank in terms of para 9 of the circular to
redeposit the lost funds in the customer's bank account within 10 working days
wherein the petitioner bank has failed. The decision relied upon by the petitioner
bank has no application to the facts of the case because there is no credible
evidence of any negligence or of any voluntary sharing of the login credentials by the
complainant. 11. The revision petition, being without any merits, is dismissed. Sd/- ( A.P. SAHI, J.)
 PRESIDENT

 Sd/- ( BHARATKUMAR PANDYA)
 MEMBER

aj/-