The petitioner herein is the 2nd accused in C.P. No.9 of 2019 on the file

of the Judicial Magistrate of the First Class-II, Ernakulam. He has been

charged for having committed offences punishable under Sections 302 , 307 , 120B , 143 , 148 , 341 , 506(ii) , 323 , 326 , 201 and 212 of the IPC. 2. In the course of investigation, the investigating officer chanced

upon information that the congregation of some of the accused in and around

the scene of crime immediately prior to the murder and also of the injured

witness being carried away from the location had been captured in three

security cams installed at nearby places. The footage was retrieved by

following the procedure and the same was forwarded to the Cyber Forensic

Lab for analysis and a report was obtained. The footage was produced before

Court along with the final report by categorizing the same as a material object. 3. The petitioner approached the learned Magistrate and filed an

application seeking to obtain copies of (a) the CCTV footage relied on by the prosecution, (b) the FSL report obtained from the Forensic Science Laboratory
 relating to the CCTV footage and (c) the report submitted by the investigating agency seeking
 further investigation. 4. The prosecution vehemently opposed the handing over of the

CCTV footage and it was argued that the footage having been produced as a

material object, the digital copies of the same cannot be furnished. The

learned Magistrate ordered for the issuance of the records, which were

requested for, but refused to issue digital copies of the camera footage. 5. The above order is under challenge. 6. Sri. John S. Ralf, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner,

submitted that the learned Magistrate has egregiously erred in concluding that

the electronic evidence relied on by the prosecution is a material object and in

refusing to furnish copies of the same to the petitioner. He would contend that Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 defines "evidence" as all

documents, including electronic records produced for the inspection of the

Court. Referring to the relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act,

2000 , it was argued that a document under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence

Act would definitely include electronic records as defined under Section 2(t) of

the Information Technology Act. 7. The learned counsel contended that the video footage produced

before Court would clearly show that the petitioner was not there at the scene

of crime and that he was roped in later on the basis of cooked up versions

given by planted witnesses. Realizing fully well that the footage would destroy CRL.MC:4148/2019 4 the very edifice of the prosecution case insofar as the petitioner is concerned,

digital copies of the same is denied to him. According to the learned counsel,

one of the edifices on which the Criminal Justice System in this country is built

upon is "fairness in trial". The Code provides an unbridled right to the accused

to receive all documents and statements as well as to move an application for

production of any record or witness in support of his case. This constitutional

mandate and statutory rights given to the accused place an implied obligation

upon the prosecution to make fair disclosure and to supply the documents

demanded. He would contend that the concept of fair disclosure would take

within its ambit furnishing of a document, which the prosecution relies upon,

whether filed in Court or not. Relying on the decision of the Apex Court in Sidhartha Vashisht v. State (NCT of Delhi )1, it is vehemently urged that

even in cases where during investigation, a document is bona fide obtained by

the investigating agency, and in the opinion of the Prosecutor concerned is

relevant and would help in arriving at the truth, that document should be

disclosed to the accused. The learned counsel has filed a detailed statement

narrating the evolution of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the

consequential amendments made in the various enactments, including the Indian Penal Code , 1860 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , to bolster his

submissions. 1 [(2010) 6 SCC 1] CRL.MC:4148/2019 5 8. Sri.Suman Chakravarthy, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor, has

resisted the submissions advanced by the learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner. Relying on a decision of this Court in Sherin V.John v. State of

Kerala2 , it was argued that the law recognises a third category of evidence in

addition to oral evidence as well as documentary evidence, which is 'real

evidence' or 'physical evidence' and it consists of material objects other than

documents produced for inspection of the Court. It is urged that material

evidence is not covered under Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. and there is no law,

which provides for the issuance of a copy of a material object. Alternatively,

it is argued that the electronic record having been produced as a material

object, it is a piece of real evidence and will not fall in the category of an

electronic record or document. If that be the case, the prosecution is not

obliged to serve a copy of the same to the accused and for the self-same

reason, the accused cannot clamor of prejudice and claim it as a matter of

right. He submitted that CCTV footage, videos, photographs etc. may fall into

the category of 'documents', but may in certain cases, become a 'material

object'. Taking the analogy of an obscene book seized by the police, it is

submitted that in the ordinary parlance, though the book may fall into the

category of 'document', it is actually a material object and the possession of

the same being an offence, the accused is not entitled to a copy. Same is the

2 [2018 (3) KHC 725] CRL.MC:4148/2019 6 case with counterfeit currency etc. He would take much pains to point out

that an information in an electronic device is a material object as long as it has

a direct nexus with the offence committed. The question of privacy is also a

consideration to be borne in mind by the Court, contends the learned Senior

Public Prosecutor. 9. In view of the questions posed by rival sides, Sri.D.Prem Kamath,

a promising young advocate, well versed in cyber law, was requested to assist

the Court as Amicus Curiae. 10. Sri. D.Prem Kamath, the learned Amicus Curiae, elucidated on the

reasons, which persuaded the legislature to bring in amendments to the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , and to incorporate necessary provisions regarding

appreciation of digital evidence. The learned counsel very painstakingly took

this Court through the relevant provisions of various enactments and it is

persuasively argued that a combined reading of the definitions of "document"

and "evidence" together with the provisions of the Information Technology Act unambiguously would lead to the conclusion that CCTV footage is definitely

"data", which is an "electronic record" that comes within the definition of

"document" and is evidence, as it has been produced for inspection before

Court. According to Sri.Prem Kamath, the digital evidence produced before

court would fall into the category of 'documentary evidence'. CRL.MC:4148/2019 7 11. I have considered the submissions advanced and have perused

the records. 12. One of the basic principles of a fair hearing in a grave crime is

that the individual charged with a criminal offence be informed of the evidence

that supports the allegations that have been formally lodged against him in a

Court of law. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure recognize the

said right and the accused has a right under Section 173 to obtain the

documents made mention of in the said provision. Sub-section (5) of Section

173 is particularly relevant, which reads as under: (5) When such report is in respect of a case to which
 section 170 applies, the police officer shall forward to the
 Magistrate along with the report- (a) all documents or relevant extracts thereof on which
 the prosecution proposes to rely other than those already
 sent to the Magistrate during investigation; (b) the statements- recorded under section 161 of all the
 persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as
 its witnesses." 13. Thus, it is imperative on the part of the Investigating Officer to

forward all documents and relevant extracts, which the prosecution proposes CRL.MC:4148/2019 8 to rely, so as to enable the learned Magistrate to hand over the same to the

accused. 14. Section 207 of the Code makes it mandatory for the Court to

furnish to the accused the following documents: 15. In Sidhartha Vashisht (supra), the Apex Court held that the

Code provides a right to the accused to receive all documents and statements

as well as to move an application for production of any record or witness in

support of his case. This constitutional mandate and statutory rights given to

the accused place an implied obligation upon the prosecution to make fair

disclosure. The same view was taken in V.K. Sasikala v. State3 , wherein it

3 (2012) 9 SCC 771 CRL.MC:4148/2019 9 was held that though it is only such reports which support the prosecution

case that required to be forwarded to the Court under Section 173 (5) of the

Cr.P.C., in every situation where some of the seized papers and documents do

not support the prosecution case and, on the contrary, supports the accused, a

duty is cast on the Investigating Officer to evaluate the two sets of documents

and materials collected and, if required, to exonerate the accused at that

stage itself. The Apex Court also had occasion to visualize a situation where

the investigating officer ignores a part of the seized documents which favour

the accused and forwards to the Court only those documents which support

the prosecution. In such an event, the Court may have a duty to make

available such documents to the accused regardless of the fact whether the

same may not have been marked and exhibited by the prosecution. In other

words, it will be the duty of the prosecution to disclose evidence to the

accused persons, especially that, which might be potentially exculpatory or

otherwise, which may have a negative impact on the weight of the evidence

led by the prosecution or such evidence, which may support a proposed

defence theory. The same view was taken in Tarun Tyagi v. CBI4 , wherein it

was held that every document relied upon by the prosecution has to be

supplied to the defence / accused at the time of supply of the charge sheet to

4 (2017) 4 SCC 490 CRL.MC:4148/2019 10 enable such an accused to demonstrate that no case is made out against him

and also to enable him to prepare his cross-examination and defence strategy. 16. The contention of the learned Senior Public Prosecutor is based

on the decision of this Court in Sherin V.John (supra), wherein it was held

that material evidence is not covered under Section 207 of the Cr.P.C. It was

also held in that case that there is no law providing for issuance of a copy of

the material objects to the accused. The following conclusions were arrived

at by the learned Single Judge in paragraph No.41 of the judgment. 17. I am of the view that Sherin V.John (supra) was rendered in a

different fact situation and the learned Judge, who had decided the petition,

had no occasion to consider the provisions of the Information Technology Act,

2000 and the sweeping changes it brought to the provisions of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 . 18. Before delving into those aspects, it would be profitable to have a

look at the definition of "real evidence". In Phipson on Evidence, Sixteenth

Edition (South Asian), in page No.5, the learned Author has defined 'real

evidence', in the following words: 19. Thus, essentially, material objects, other than documents

produced for the inspection of the court are commonly called real evidence. If

the electronic record produced for inspection before the court is a document,

the question is whether the accused can be denied a copy of the same. 20. Before proceeding to decide the question raised, it would be

apposite to bear in mind that major shifts in the Information Technology

landscape from the mid 90's have made the collection and analysis of

electronic evidence an increasingly important tool for solving crimes and to

bring culprits to justice. Though digital evidence is conceptually the same as

any other evidence, it has a much larger scope and the information can be

used to pin people and events within the confines of a specific time and space

and establish a causality in criminal cases. Great many sensational cases,

wherein there is total absence of direct evidence have been solved and the

culprits have been brought to book with the aid of electronic evidence. It has CRL.MC:4148/2019 13 to be borne in mind that electronic evidence is volatile, easily altered,

damaged or destroyed, time sensitive and not bound by territorial jurisdictions.

In almost all cases, call data records, chat messages, security cam videos,

whatsapp profiles and facebook status messages provide valuable clues to

zero in on the offender and the law enforcement agencies extensively rely on

such forms of electronic evidence before court in aid of the prosecution. 21. The importance of production of scientific and electronic evidence

in court after complying with the procedural formalities was highlighted by the

Apex Court in Tomaso Bruno and Other v. State of U.P. 5, wherein it was

held as follows: 22. In Tomaso Bruno (supra), the Apex Court deprecated the

prosecution for not producing the CCTV footage and call records which would

have been invaluable to establish the prosecution case. In landmark cases

such as in Mohd. Ajmal Mohammad Amir Kasab v. State of

Maharashtra6 , and in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan 6 [(2012) 9 SCC 1] CRL.MC:4148/2019 15 Guru7, electronic evidence was called in aid to pin point the guilt of the

accused. It has to be recognized, therefore, that electronic records are created

with every day actions of individuals and in criminal offences, it is extensively

used to establish the guilt of the accused. 23. In State v. S.J. Choudhury 8, the Apex Court had occasion to

observe that the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 by its very nature is an "ongoing

Act". In view of the rapid advances in technology, the extant statutes will have

to be interpreted in such a manner so as to increase its acceptability. The

courts will not be justified in placing unnecessary roadblocks in the

acceptability of evidence, particularly of the digital variety. Keeping in mind

these aspects, the legislature enacted the Information Technology Act, 2000 and later harmonized the Evidence Act to seamlessly accept electronic

evidence to advance the cause of justice. Conventional means of records and

data processing have become outdated and the rules relating to admissibility

of electronic evidence and its proof were incorporated into Indian Laws. The

legislature, it appears, was cognizant of the fact that if the procedural and

substantive laws do not keep pace with the speed of change in the society, the

casualty would be the interest of justice. 7 [(2005) 11 SCC 600]

8 [(1996) 2 SCC 428] CRL.MC:4148/2019 16 24. In the above background, we may have a glance at the relevant

provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . 25. The Information Technology Act also defines computer resource,

computer network, computer system and computer device. Thus, data,

information or any other content generated kept stored, sent, received, and

communicated through electronic, magnetic, optical and digital media has to

be dealt with as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and such electronic evidence can be admitted and proved in courts in

accordance with the special provisions as to evidence relating to electronic

record as provided under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 26. In this context, it would be relevant to take note of the fact that

electronic records are not limited to mere computer outputs such as scanned

documents or printouts, which are ordinarily used in the course of business. It

includes any data, information or other record stored in electronic medium

irrespective of when, how or by whom such record was created. It may

include sound recordings of intercepted communications or video footage of

crimes. It may also comprise of voluminous data stored on cloud services

wherein the device and storage infrastructure are indeterminable. It may also

be stored in third party storage platforms, or in social media platforms like

Facebook, Twitter, Whatsapp etc. or in e-mails and Camera Footage or CRL.MC:4148/2019 18 photographs. Thus the wide scope of obtaining digital evidence yields a

commensurate potential for recoverable evidence. 27. Section 4 of the Information Technology Act provides for legal

recognition of electronic records. It states that where any law provides that

information or any other matter shall be in writing or in the typewritten or

printed form, then, notwithstanding anything contained in such law, such

requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such information or

matter is-- (a) rendered or made available in an electronic form; and (b) accessible so as to be usable for a subsequent
 reference. 28. Now, let us have a glance at the relevant provisions of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 . 29. Thus, after the amendment which was brought into effect from

17.10.2010, electronic records have been placed in the category of

documentary evidence. 30. Section 22A of the Indian Evidence Act states that oral admissions

as to the contents of electronic records are not relevant, unless the

genuineness of the electronic record produced is in question. Section 59 of the

Indian Evidence Act speaks about proof of facts by oral evidence. It states

that all facts, except the contents of documents or electronic records, may be

proved by oral evidence. 31. A combined reading of Sections 22A and 59 of the Indian

Evidence Act would unmistakably show that the contents of electronic records

are not expected to be proved by oral evidence. The provisions also say that

oral admissions of the contents of electronic records are not relevant, unless

its genuineness in question. 32. The provision in the Indian Evidence Act which enables the Court

to require for the production of material thing for its inspection is Section. The

principle underlying Section 60 is that all facts except the contents of

documents may be proved by oral evidence, which must in all cases, be direct.

That is, it must consist of a declaration by the witness that he perceived by his

own senses the fact to which he testifies. The effect of the section is, subject CRL.MC:4148/2019 20 to the proviso, to exclude opinions given at second hand, which is otherwise

called heresay. The second proviso to Section 60 reads as follows: 33. In other words, if the oral evidence refers to the existence or

condition of a material thing other than a document, the court may, if it thinks

fit, require the production of such material thing for its inspection. Thus, when

material objects such as weapon of offence, clothes or other personal items of

the victim or any other thing which is referred by the witnesses are produced

in Court, it is regarded as a thing and it can be relied on as it is. It is next to

impossible to supply copies of the same to the accused. However, after the

advent of technology, the line between categorizing a thing as a 'material

thing' or a document has become more or less obliterated. If a hard disk or a

magnetic disk containing data is stolen and the same is seized and produced

in court, it may sometimes be difficult to categorize it as 'a thing' produced for

inspection of the court or a 'document'. One way of distinguishing it is by

asking a question as to whether the item is relevant in itself or whether the

item is relevant because of the information that can be retrieved from it. In

other words, if a material thing is produced in court to rely on the data that it

contains, it is probably a document and it has to be regarded as such. On the CRL.MC:4148/2019 21 other hand, if the material thing is brought to court in order to rely on it as it

is, it is a thing and may be exhibited as a material object. 34. In Tarun Tyagi (supra) on the allegation that the accused had

stolen source codes of a software, a search was conducted in his house and

hard disks were seized. At the stage of Section 207 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, all other records except for the cloned copies of the Hard Disk were

supplied to the accused. The accused approached the Apex Court and

contended that the copies of the hard disks are to be supplied to demonstrate

during trial that no case is made out against him. He also contended that the

cloned copies are required for enabling him to prepare his cross examination

and a proper defense strategy. The CBI opposed the prayer and it was urged

that the accused would misuse the same. The Apex Court repelled the

contention and the cloned copies of the hard disk were ordered to be supplied

to the accused. 35. In view of the above discussion and on a proper understanding of

the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 , it can be deduced that the CCTV footage in the instant

case is "data" as defined under Section 2(o) of the Information Technology

Act, 2000 and it is an electronic record as defined under Section 2(t) of the

I.T. Act. If that be the case, the electronic record produced for the inspection

of the Court has to be regarded as documentary evidence. In that view of the CRL.MC:4148/2019 22 matter, I am unable to accept the logic of the prosecution in producing the

CCTV footage as a material object and in refusing to supply a copy of the

same to the accused. I hold that cloned Digital copies of the footage relied on

by the prosecution have to be made available to the accused, unless it is

impracticable or unjustifiable. For instance, in a case of brutal sexual abuse, if

the incident has been videotaped, in view of the element of privacy or to

prevent misuse, copy may be refused. In a case in which the accused is being

prosecuted for possessing pedophilic material, copies of the same can be

refused. In such cases, the Court may grant permission to the counsel or the

accused to have a private screening to have a proper defense. Same is the

case in a terrorism prosecution, wherein national security interests demands

non-disclosure of the digital evidence, which has been collected. These are

merely illustrative and not exhaustive. As an adversarial system is followed in

our country, the accused is entitled to a copy of the records so that he can

bring to the notice of the courts exculpatory material or such other aspects in

the prosecution case, which may be to his advantage. 36. At this stage, the question of certification under Section 65B of

the Indian Evidence Act was raised by the learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner. 37. Any documentary evidence by way of an "electronic record" under

the Indian Evidence Act can be proved only in accordance with the procedure CRL.MC:4148/2019 23 prescribed under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. This is what is

provided under Sections 59 and 65A of the Indian Evidence Act. Section 59 provides that all facts except the contents of document or "electronic

evidence", may be proved by oral evidence. Section 65A provides that the

contents of electronic records may be proved in accordance with the

provisions of Section 65B of the Act. Section 65B deals with the admissibility

of "electronic records". Section 65A and Section 65B were introduced into the Evidence Act in 2000 providing special processes for proving copies of extracts

of electronic records. It provided a method of certifying the authenticity of the

copy and the integrity of the content of such copy. In other words, any

electronic record, which is printed, stored, recorded or copies made on to an

optical or magnetic media and produced by a computer will be deemed to be

a document only if the conditions set out in Section 65B(1) of the Evidence

Act are satisfied and it was held so in Anwar P.V. v P.K. Basheer9 . However, in Shafhi Mohammed v. State of H.P.10 the Apex Court revisited

the principles laid down in Anwar P.V. (supra) and it was held that the

applicability of procedural requirement under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence

Act for furnishing certificate is not always mandatory. Later, in the case of Arjun Panditrao Khotkar v. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal (Civil Appeal

No (s). 2407 of 2018 and connected cases) by interim order dated 26.7.2019,
9 (2014)10 SCC 473

10 (2018) 5 SCC 311 CRL.MC:4148/2019 24 their Lordships of the Apex Court had ordered that in view of Anwar P.V. (supra), the pronouncement of this Court in Shafhi Mohammad (supra)

needs reconsideration and the matter was referred to be considered by a

larger Bench. However, in the instant case, the said question is merely

academic as Sri.Suman Chakravarthy, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor,

submitted that the requisite certification under Section 65B of the Indian

Evidence Act has been obtained for the electronic evidence. In that view of

the matter, there is no embargo in providing to the accused a copy of the

CCTV Footage, which is relied on by the prosecution in the subject case. 38. In the case on hand, I have no doubt in my mind that the

investigating agency has committed a grave error by producing the CCTV

footage as a material object and also in refusing to give a copy of the same to

the accused. The accused is entitled to a digital copy of the CCTV footage,

which is relied on by the prosecution to prove the charge. That being the case,

the order passed by the learned Magistrate will stand set aside. 39. This petition will stand allowed. The digital copies of the electronic

record relied on by the prosecution and sought for by the petitioner shall be

issued to him by imposing appropriate safeguards that the jurisdictional court

may deem fit and proper. Before parting, I place on record my deep sense of appreciation to

Sri.John S. Ralph, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, Sri.Suman

Chakravarthi, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor and Sri. D.Prem Kamath,

the learned Amicus curiae, for their invaluable assistance. Sd/- RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V.,
 JUDGE

ps/17/9/2019

 //TRUE COPY//

 P.A. TO JUDGE CRL.MC:4148/2019 26 APPENDIX
PETITIONER'S/S EXHIBITS: