- 1. The case as unfolded by report u/S 173 CrPC is that in the

morning of 26.12.2010 Shivnath aged about 25 years (sic it should be

35 years) was found dead in the bedroom of his house No.B-2/162,
 Paschim Vihar, Delhi. He was taken to Balaji hospital, Paschim Vihar

from where information was given to the police vide DD No.14-A. The

copy of DD was given to SI Surender Singh who alongwith Ct. Sandip

went to the hospital and collected MLC. Shivnath was declared

brought dead at 10.54 AM. The MLC revealed bluish discoloration of

lips and tongue e pistal and VL/LL, blood stain present over nose c

abrasion mark over neck anteriorly. The SHO also reached the

hospital. There were signs of scratches near nose. The dead body

was got post-mortemed in Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital.

Photographs of the dead body were taken and the body was handed

over to the legal heirs. Crime team was called for inspection which

got the spot photographed. The woolen bed sheet of the double bed

was having hairs of head, a blood stained pillow, one cushion and

cushion cover having lot of blood was also there. The hairs were

lifted, cushion and pillow were also taken into possession. The hairs

were sealed in one pullanda with the seal of SSY. Cushion and pillow

were sealed in separate pullanda with the same seal. The family

members of deceased did not express suspicion on anyone. So, DD

No.14-A was kept pending. Subsequent investigation was given to

Inspector Deepak Sharma. He got the post-mortem report collected.

According to the said report cause of death was asphyxia consequent
 to obstruction of airways by combined effect of manual strangulation

of neck and smothering. All injuries were ante-mortem and fresh in

duration. Injuries on neck were sufficient to cause the death in

ordinary course of nature. Time since death was about 12 hours. On

this FIR was got registered. The site was inspected at the instance of

Km. Geeta/sister of deceased. Site plan was prepared. The IO made

local enquiries and recorded statements of witnesses. 2. On 31.12.2010 DD No.13-A was recorded on the basis of

information from Km. Geeta that her bhabhi Shobha had told

something about death of Shiv in presence of Geeta and her chichi

Kiran, police should be sent. The IO went to the house of the

deceased, made enquiries from Km. Geeta and Smt. Kiran. They told

that Shobha w/o deceased had confessed having killed Shivnath, in

association with her friend Sunil Malik r/o Himachal Pradesh. The IO

made enquiries from Shobha who replied that whatever her Chachia

Saas and Geeta were saying, was correct. A team was sent to Nahan,

Himachal Pradesh for apprehending Sunil Malik. On detailed enquiry

Shobha w/o deceased told the IO that she knew Sunil Malik from

before marriage with deceased, she had love affair with Sunil Malik

who was running Chemist shop in Nahan, Kachacha Tank, her family

members had married her with deceased without her consent, she
 could not object because her family members were upset due to her

younger sister having married after running away from the house and

her family members knew about her affair with Sunil, her family

members were afraid that she might marry Sunil after running away

from the house. She had not given birth to any child till the incident in

question, she was not physically and mentally satisfied with her

husband Shivnath, her husband used to come to the house after

taking liquor daily, due to that reason she was in continuous contact

with Sunil. Whenever she used to get opportunity, she used to meet

Sunil. In January, 2010, she went to Nahan and her meeting with Sunil

increased, she used to conversate with Sunil on telephone which

became known to Shivnath. Shivnath took her mobile phone

9811936129 and gave another telephone to her. She was very much

disturbed and made planning on telephone with Sunil to remove

Shivnath from the way. As per said planning Sunil came to her house

in the darkness of morning on 25/26.12.2010, she and Sunil pressed

the mouth and neck of Shivnath with cushion and killed him. She

used to talk with Sunil on telephone No.08091497835 which was given

to her by Sunil. After killing, Sunil went back to Nahan, Himachal

Pradesh. On the night of 25.12.2010 before Shivnath went for

sleeping, Shobha served sleeping pills to him. On said disclosure,
 Shobha was arrested. 3. On 01.01.2011 Sunil Malik was brought from Himachal

Pradesh to Delhi for interrogation. He also confessed his guilt and told

that he had come to Delhi from Nahan in a hired vehicle which was

driven by his acquaintance Dheeraj. He parked his vehicle on the

main road, asked the driver to wait and went to the house of Shobha

as per plan already made with Shobha. He and Shobha were

continuously talking on telephone. He went near the house of Shobha

as told by Shobha to him. From there Shobha took him to bedroom on

first floor near staircase where Shivnath was sleeping. Shobha had

already given sleeping pills to Shivnath in the night before he went to

sleep and all this he had already talked with Shobha. He and Shobha

pressed the mouth of Shivnath with cushion lying on the bed. After lot

of efforts when Shivnath did not die, he pressed the neck with thumb

and returned to Nahan in the same vehicle. On this Sunil Malik was

also arrested. 4. Disclosures of Shobha and Sunil Malik were separately

recorded. Their PC was taken. After sustained enquiry, Shobha got

recovered from the house of her friend Ekta Sachdeva the telephone

with which she used to talk with Sunil and on which she had made
 plan to remove Shivnath from the way. The said phone was having

SIM of No.08091497835. Sunil Malik told that in the end of November,

2010 he alongwith his friend stayed in Alaska hotel, Karol Bagh where

Shobha came to meet him and made entry in the name of Pooja.

Attested photocopies of entry register and visitor register of the hotel

were obtained. Sunil Malik told that the telephone with which he used

to talk with Shobha and which was having two SIM Nos. 09418077897

and 09736764435 was in his shop in Nahan, Himachal. He used to

talk more on Vodafone/later number. He used to talk 15-20 times in a

day. As per information given by accused Sunil Malik, phone was

recovered from Shubham Medicos, Kachcha Tank, Nahan. Enquiries

were made from Aman Kumar from whom the vehicle was hired.

Search was made for driver Dheeraj but could not be found. Husband

of Shobha had put the SIM taken out from mobile snatched by him

from Shobha and put the same in his own instrument. Call details and

certified copies of documents of ownership of the two SIMs recovered

at the instance of Sunil Malik were obtained. On checking it was found

that lot of conversation took place in later phone of Sunil and the

substitute phone of Shobha given to her by deceased. About 63/64

conversations took place between the two accused on the night

between 25.12.2010 and 26.12.2010. As per Cell ID of the later
 phone of Sunil, his position in the morning of 26.12.2010 was near

Paschim Vihar, Delhi. The earlier phone with Shobha snatched by her

husband also revealed that she had talked much with that phone with

Sunil. Call details and documents of ownership of phone number of

Dheeraj were also collected. Scaled site plan was got prepared.

Exhibits were sent to FSL Rohini. Result was not ready till the time of

filing challan. Supplementary challan alongwith result of FSL was filed

subsequently. 5. After completing investigation challan was filed. Copies

were supplied. Case was committed to the Court of Sessions. A prima

facie case for offence u/S 302 / 34 IPC was found against both the

accused. Charge was framed to which they pleaded not guilty. 6. In order to substantiate its case the prosecution examined

as many as 33 witnesses. PW-1 HC Ram Mahesh, duty officer, proved

copy of FIR as Ex.PW1/A and endorsement regarding registration of

FIR on the rukka as Ex.PW1/B. He also proved copy of DD No.29-A

regarding registration of FIR as Ex.PW1/C. 7. PW-2 Ms. Geeta Lohani is sister of the deceased. She

deposed that on 25.12.2010 she alongwith her fiancée Sachin Anand

and her cousins went to Gurgaon. At about 8.30 PM she received a
 call from her brother Shivnath who asked her where she was. She told

him that she was in Gurgaon. He asked her to come early. At about

12.30 AM she returned to house No.B-2/162, First floor, Paschim Vihar

with her cousin and fiancée. Accused Shobha present in Court was

already standing there and she did not have to ring the bell. Shobha

came downstairs. Her fiancée and cousins wanted to come upstairs to

drop her but Shobha stopped them. Shobha told that Shiv was

sleeping and asked not go to upstairs in his room. This witness went

upstairs straight to her room. Her mother was present and accused

Shobha also came there. The accused sat with them for sometime

and then went back to her room at about 1.00 AM. At about 1.15 AM

she went to drawing room to talk to her fiancée on phone and

continued talking to him. At about 2.45 AM accused Shobha came

outside from her room and did not expect to see her in the drawing

room. This witness could see shocking expression on face of Shobha.

After looking at the witness, Shobha immediately went inside her

room. After 2-3 minutes of entering her room, Shobha closed the

door. After about 5 minutes this witness heard noise of opening other

door of the room of Shobha and Shivnath which is situated near the

stairs and the said door used to open in the entrance. This witness

became scared on hearing the sound of opening said door. After 5
 minutes she went inside her room and slept by the side of her

mother. In the morning at 10 o'clock she heard her mother and

Shobha talking to each other about Shiv that Shiv was not waking up.

Her mother was insisting that he would wake up, he might have slept

late at night. When this witness heard the noise of her mother and

Shobha and panicking and saying "Shiv-Shiv", this witness ran inside

her brother's room. She rubbed the hand and feet of her brother. She

saw his lips, face and nails to be blue and his hands and feet were

cold. She went inside her room to call friends and relatives. First of

all she called her fiancée and thereafter her cousin brothers and

thereafter her maternal uncle. They all came with an ambulance from

Balaji hospital. Shobha was insisting why Shiv was being taken and

was asking for calling a doctor at home. Shiv was taken to Balaji

hospital. This witness remained at home. Her mother and other

people went to the hospital. She received a call from her fiancée that

Shiv was no more and he was being taken for post-mortem. They

were told by the police that death of Shiv was not natural and all of

them were wondering as to what has happened to Shiv. They were

asking Shobha as to what had happened to Shiv. Shobha told that

Shiv woke up at 6.30 AM and was feeling cold. So she gave another

blanket to him and then he slept again. But they were not convinced
 with what was told by Shobha. 8. In the morning of 31.12.2010 this witness and her chichi

Kiran and Shobha were sitting together at 8.30 AM. They were asking

Shobha as to what had happened to Shiv. All of a sudden Shobha

started weeping and confessed that she had murdered Shiv, with her

friend Sunil. This witness immediately called the police. After about

half an hour police officials including the lady police came. Shobha

confessed before police also. Her Cousin Gopal was also present at

that time. Shobha made disclosure Ex.PW2/A which bears signature of

this witness at point A. After her marriage on 09.02.2011 she started

helping her mother at the shop of her brother. At the shop she found

a mobile phone make Sony Erricson which Shobha used to use earlier.

Her brother had a suspicion on Shobha. So he took mobile phone

from Shobha and kept it with him. This witness handed over the said

phone to police vide memo Ex.PW2/B. Phone Ex.P-1 was the same

which she handed over to the police. 9. In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, she

stated that her brother was not a heart patient. She did not tell the

facts on 26.12.2010 to the police that Shobha was standing outside in

balcony on 25.12.2010 when this witness returned from Gurgaon or
 that Shobha opened the door as she did not suspect the death of her

brother was unnatural. She came to know at about 4/5.00 PM on

26.12.2010 that death of Shiv was unnatural. She denied that she did

not tell the above facts to the police as nothing such happened. She

denied that she did not tell said facts to the police till 06.01.2011. Her

statement dated 30.12.2010 which is Ex.PW2/DA did not contain said

facts. Her statement Ex.PW2/DA and Ex.PW2/DB does not contain

relations between Shobha and Sunil. The same did not contain that

she had gone to Gurgaon with her fiancée and returned at 12.30 in

the night of 25.12.2010. Her said statements and statement

Ex.PW2/DC dated 06.01.2011 did not contain that her fiancée and

cousin wanted to go upstairs to drop her but Shobha stopped them.

Uthala took place on 28.12.2010. She admitted that Shobha was

doubting on her and her family members as having killed Shiv. She

denied that they concocted a false story about confession by Shobha

subsequent to such doubt by Shobha. She denied that her going with

Sachin/fiancée was not liked by Shiv. Earlier she had not remained

outside till late in the night with Sachin. She denied that Shobha did

not make any such confession or that her aunty and Gopal were not

present at their house on 31.12.2010. She had not told the police that

her brother had suspicion on Shobha or had taken mobile from her.
 She was confronted with her statement Ex.PW2/DB where Shobha

weeping and confessing before this witness and her aunty Kiran were

not mentioned in the same manner in which narrated in Court. 10. In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha, she

stated that at the time of marriage of Shobha they were residing at

B-2/224, Paschim Vihar. The said house was sold after the death of

father of this witness in 2005. Her uncle had a share in the house and

the sale proceeds were divided. Then they shifted to present house

B-2/162, Paschim Vihar on 01.11.2005. The new house was purchased

in the name of mother of this witness from sale proceeds of earlier

house. She admitted that Shiv had to pay debts of about Rs.30-32

Lacs which was also paid from the sale proceeds of earlier house. She

did not know if Shobha contributed about Rs.4-5 Lacs from her

parental side for purchase of present flat. She admitted that they had

asked the property dealer to find a buyer for flat No.B-2/162 after

death of Shiv. Her brother had taken a loan of Rs.15 Lacs from bank

for her marriage and flat had been mortgaged for the said loan. There

was no major problem between Shiv and Shobha, as per her

knowledge. Shobha was not able to deliver natural child; efforts were

being made for test tube baby and treatment was going on till May,

2010. Her engagement with Sachin took place in July, 2010. She
 denied that her engagement took place with Sumit r/o Ajay Enclave in

2009 or that the same was broken or that her brother was annoyed

with her on her not agreeing with proposal for marriage with Sumit.

Date of her marriage with Sachin was fixed in August, 2010. Her

marriage took place in farm house named Silver Oak in Mundka. Shiv

used to invest in share market once a while. Shobha used to give

tuitions and earn Rs.6000/- to Rs.8,000/- per month. She did not know

if jewellery presented to Shobha were sold twice in 2005 due to

financial constraints in the family. She denied having sent any SMS to

Kewal/ brother of Shobha around her marriage that he would not be

able to save Shobha. She admitted that on 22.12.2010 Shiv had come

from Vaishnu Devi alongwith her Saala Kewal. Next night he was

performing sewa in Dargaha bare footed. She denied that Shiv was

suffering from cold from 24.12.2010 onwards. She admitted that

Shobha arranged a Christmas Party for children who used to come for

tuition, on 25.12.2010 at her house. She denied that Shiv showed his

displeasure over her being out of the house in late hours in the night

with her fiancée on 25.12.2010. On 31.12.2010 she telephoned police

from her landline phone No.65590500 but did not remember on which

number she called the police. She did not remember if she called the

police on landline or mobile. She denied that no call was given by her
 on 31.12.2010 to the police. 11. PW-3 Kiran is Chachi of deceased. On 26.12.2010 when

doctor told that death of Shiv was not natural, all of them became

mentally disturbed. She was staying at the house of her Jethani at

that time and all the time they used to talk about Shiv only. All of

them were wondering as to what had happened to Shiv. On

31.12.2010 she, Geeta and Shobha (accused present in the court)

were sitting in drawing room. At about 8.00 AM or 8.30 AM, they were

talking about Shiv. She and Geeta asked Shobha that Shobha was

with Shiv in the room on that night and Shobha did not know as to

what had happened to Shiv. Firstly, Shobha was evasive and was not

properly giving reply. After sometime she broke down and started

weeping loudly. They asked her as to what had happened to her. She

replied that she had committed the murder of Shiv by throttling neck

of Shiv with the help of Sunil. They thought how Shobha had been

sitting with them and taking food for 4 days after doing such an act.

She asked Geeta to inform police. Police came. In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, she was

confronted with her statement Ex.PW3/DA where it is not mentioned

that Shobha broke down and started weeping loudly. She denied that
 she was not present at the house of her Jethani and did not stay in her

house on the night of 30.12.2010 or she had made a false statement

to support the prosecution case, being a close relative. She denied

that Shobha had not confessed to them or the police. In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha same

replies were given. 12. PW-10 Gopal is cousin of the deceased. He is a witness to

disclosure of accused Shobha to the police. He proved arrest memo of

accused Shobha as Ex.PW10/A and her personal search memo as

Ex.PW10/B.

 In cross examination by accused persons he was confronted

with his statement Ex.PW10/DA where the factum of Shobha

confessing before him also does not find place. He denied that he did

not go to the house of Shobha or that Shobha did not make any

confession or that he was deposing falsely being close relative of

Shivnath. 13. PW-13 Smt. Shyama Devi is mother of the deceased. She

made a statement similar to that of PW-2. She also added that there

were marks of scratches near both sides of nose of Shivnath. He had

impression of bleeding from nose. She asked Shobha as to how those
 marks took place. Shobha replied that Shivnath had fallen on the

stairs. She asked Shobha that fall on stairs could cause scratch at one

place and not like scratches appearing on the face of Shivnath.

Shobha persisted with her reply. In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha, she

admitted that from 26.12.2010 onwards police was almost coming

daily to their house and making enquiries from all of them. She might

not have told the police that at about 10.30 PM Shobha came to her or

asked her whether she could sit with her or she was surprised as

Shobha was not talking properly with her for six months to one year.

She volunteered that she might not have done so as it was a family

affair. She did not tell the police that on first occasion Shobha went to

see Geeta without call bell. She did not remember if Geetu told her

that Sachin and Anand wanted to come upstairs but was not allowed

by accused Shobha. This does not find place in her statement

Ex.PW13/DA. Her statement Ex.PW13/DA did not contain that she told

the police that she saw signs of scratches on face of Shivnath or

impression of bleeding from nose or asking Shobha how Shivnath was

having those scratches or Shobha telling her that Shivnath had fallen

on stairs. She admitted that Sameer Sachdeva/her neighbourer had

brought assistant doctor from the clinic of Dr. Sodhi before leaving for
 Balaji hospital who told that Shivnath was not having pulse. All

unanimously decided to take Shivnath to hospital and none objected.

She denied that Shobha had stopped taking non-veg food for 1½ / 2

years before the incident or that Shivnath was annoyed with Geeta

due to her having gone with Sachin in late hours of night on

25.12.2010. She admitted that even after the incident, marriage of

Geeta was done as proposed in February, 2011. She volunteered that

in their family, marriage is not postponed after Ardas of Guru. The

marriage was done on lavish scale but the invitees were reduced. She

denied that she used to remain annoyed with Shobha as she could not

deliver a child for 10 years. She admitted that on 07.01.2011 after

arrest of Shobha, withdrawals were made by them by using ATM card

of Shobha. Geeta normally used to sleep in her room. When Geeta

woke up in the morning of 26.12.2010 she did not tell about

happening on the night between 25.12.2010 and 26.12.2010. 14. PW-4 Rajesh Dubey, Assistant Manager from Hotel Alaska,

Karol Bagh, Delhi, produced copies of entry in reception register

pertaining to Dheeraj Kumar, copies of driving licence and voter I-card

of Dheeraj Kumar which are Ex.PW4/A to C respectively. The same

were seized by the police vide memo Ex.PW4/D. He had attested

copies of Ex.PW4/A to Ex.PW4/C and had brought the relevant record.
 He also handed over the copy of visitor book Ex.PW4/E to the police

which was seized vide memo Ex.PW4/F. Police brought one person at

the time of production of documents by him. He could not identify the

said person due to lapse of time. Even on seeing accused Sunil

present in Court, he could not say if said accused was the same

person who was brought by police. 15. He was cross examined by Ld. Addl.PP in which he admitted

that person brought by the police told his name as Sunil Malik and

further told that on 30.11.2012 he alongwith his associate stayed in

the hotel. He produced a copy of entry of Sunil Kumar and Dheeraj

which is Ex.PW4/G. The same was seized vide memo Ex.PW4/F. As

per entry one lady Pooja with mobile No.999995236 and address of

J-132, Pritam Pura, Delhi came and stayed with said persons for 15

minutes. Number of vehicle entered against said entry is

HP-18A-0119. Person brought by police did not tell that name of said

lady was Shobha or that she was his friend. He was confronted with

portion A to A of statement Mark PW4/H where it is so recorded. He

denied that he was deliberately suppressing the said fact with a view

to save the accused persons. In cross examination by accused persons he stated that he
 was not on duty in the hotel on 30.11.2010 and 01.12.2010. He had

no personal knowledge about the entries made on those dates in

reception register and visitor register. 16. PW-9 Narain Dutt Pandey was working as Receptionist in

hotel Alaska, Karol Bagh, Delhi. He was on duty at reception of hotel

from 8.00 AM to 8.00 PM on 30.11.2010. He did not remember who

came to the hotel on that day and when. His cross examination by

Ld.Addl.PP did not bring the desired result. 17. PW-5 Aman Kumar is owner of vehicle no.HP-18A-0119 and

HP-01-N-0179. In November, 2010 accused Sunil Bhai present in

Court brought the former vehicle to Karnal and later vehicle was

brought by said accused to Delhi thrice, once in the end of November,

2010, second on 10.12.2010 and third on 25.12.2010. Both the

vehicles were driven by Dheeraj who was arranged by accused Sunil

Bhai. The later vehicle was returned on 26.12.2010 at about 3.00 PM. 18. In cross examination by counsel for accused persons, he

stated that he maintained log book of the later vehicle which was

registered as taxi. He did not handover the log book to the police. He

did not maintain any booking record nor issued any booking slip. He

had not employed a driver in his taxi. He denied that accused Sunil
 Bhai did not take his taxi on 30.11.2010 and 25.12.2010. His

statement Ex.PW5/DA did not contain that accused took his taxi on

10.12.2010 also. Same is the fate about accused taking his vehicle on

30.12.2010 (sic it should have been 30.11.2010). 19. PW-6 Samir Sachdeva deposed that accused Shobha

present in the Court is friend of his wife and her husband was his

friend. On 28.12.2010 accused Shobha handed over a bag to his

wife. He produced the said bag to the police which was taken into

possession vide memo Ex.PW6/A. The said bag contained one abacus,

one book of abacus mental exercise and one book of brain exercise.

The said bag also contained one mobile phone of NOKIA black colour.

He identified the bag as Ex.P1, books as Ex.P-2 and Ex.P3, abacus as

Ex.P-5 and mobile as Ex.P-4. In cross examination he stated that none resisted removal of

Shiv to hospital. He heard that there was no sign of sadness on the

face of Geeta on account of death of her brother. He volunteered that

he himself did not notice the same. He did not read seizure memo

Ex.PW6/A before signing the same as it was not legible. 20. PW-7 Mrs. Ekta is wife of PW-6. She made a statement

similar to that of PW-6. In cross examination she denied that bag did
 not contain mobile phone or police did not recover any mobile phone

from the bag. 21. PW-8 Dheeraj is the driver of vehicle in which Sunil came on

the fateful day. According to him once he accompanied accused Sunil

to Delhi but he could not tell when he did so, even by approximation.

His cross examination by Ld.Addl.PP did not bring any fruits. 22. PW-11 HC Chhote Lal, DD writer proved copy of DD No.14-A

dated 26.12.2010 regarding information from Balaji hospital as

Ex.PW11/A, copy of DD No.13-A dated 31.12.2010 regarding Shobha

telling something about the murder as Ex.PW11/B. PW-12 Ct. Jagdish

Prasad took copy of FIR from duty officer to the spot and handed over

the same to Inspector Deepak Sharma. 23. PW-14 HC Shankar Singh collected post-mortem report. 24. PW-15 Dr. J.V.Kiran was posted at Sanjay Gandhi hospital at

the relevant time. He conducted post-mortem on the body of

Shivnath vide report Ex.PW15/A. According to him cause of death was

asphyxia consequent to obstruction of airways by combined effect of

manual strangulation of neck and smothering. All injuries were

antemortem and fresh in duration. The injuries in neck were sufficient

to cause death in ordinary course of nature. In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, he

admitted that asphyxia can occur if a person is enclosed/covered

where the air cannot pass for some time. He stated that marks of

pressure of thumb and finger may appear on the neck when spoken

generally. 25. PW-16 Ct. Harendra Singh took special copies of FIR to the

office of Joint Commissioner of police, Ld. MM and DCP. In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha, he

stated that he did not remember address of Ld.MM. In cross

examination by counsel for accused Sunil, he stated that he reached

the house of Ld.MM at 10.30 PM approximately. In the next breath he

stated that he did not remember time of reaching the house of Ld.MM. 26. PW-17 Ct. Anita Kumari accompanied police team to the

house of the deceased on 31.12.2010. She is witness of personal

search memo of accused Shobha. She is also a witness of seizure of

mobile phone produced by Ekta vide memo Ex.PW6/A. She identified

the bag Ex.P1, books Ex.P2 & P3, abacus Ex.P5 and mobile Ex.P4. In cross examination by Ld. Addl.PP she admitted that

accused Shobha made disclosure Ex.PW2/A, accused Shobha got a

mobile phone make Micromax recovered from wooden almirah in her
 bed room vide memo Ex.PW17/A. She identified the said phone as

Ex.P6. In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil she

stated that a paper chit was affixed on the mobile phones on which

she signed. On the date of her examination in Court, there was no

paper chit or her signatures on said phones. The phones and another

articles were in unsealed condition when produced by the MHC(M)

during her examination in Court. 27. PW-18 Israr Babu, Alternate Nodal Officer Vodafone

produced copy of customer application form of phone no.9736364435

in the name of Sunil Malik which is Ex.PW18/A. The first page of call

details of roaming calls is Ex.PW18/B and remaining pages containing

call details from 01.07.2010 to 31.12.2010 are collectively

Ex.PW18/C. Certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act is Ex.PW18/D. As per

roaming call details, said mobile phone was located in Delhi. Cell ID

chart showing tower location is collectively Ex.PW18/E. He also

produced copy of customer application form of phone No.9811936129

in the name of Pradeep Rajak which is Ex.PW18/F. Call details of said

phone are Ex.PW18/G and certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act is

Ex.PW18/H.
 In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, he stated

that neither he nor Anuj Bhatia were associated with

maintenance/upkeep of servers where the data is originally

maintained. He volunteered that he and Anuj Bhatia were authorized

to retrieve the data directly from the servers. He denied that details

provided by him is false or fabricated or prepared at the instance of

IO. 28. PW-19 Rajiv Ranjan, Nodal Officer Tata Tele Services Ltd.

produced customer application form and call details record of phone

No. 8091497835 which are Ex.PW19/A and Ex.PW19/B, certificate u/S

65-B Evidence Act is Ex.PW19/C, reply of Sh. Madan in response to

letter of IO is Ex.PW19/D.

 In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, he stated

that Delhi roaming details were with Aircel and were not reflected in

Ex.PW19/B. He denied that neither he nor Mr. Madan Vijayan were

empowered to sign certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act as original data

was in possession of Aircel only. 29. PW-20 Shishir Malhotra, Nodal Officer Aircel Ltd. provided

call details and location of phone spoken of by PW-19. He proved his

reply as Ex.PW20/A, Cell I-D chart as Ex.PW20/B, call details as
 collectively Ex.PW20/C and certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act as

Ex.PW20/D.

 In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha he

admitted that in the entire CDR provided by him there was no voice

call from number in question while the same was roaming in Delhi

circle. The said data is with Aircel. 30. PW-25 Vishal Gaurav, Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel Ltd.

provided ownership, application form and documents attached

therewith, call details, location including roaming of mobile phone No.

09816667979 vide Ex.PW25/A. Copy of application form is Ex.PW25/B,

copy of re-verified application form is Ex.PW25/B1, copy of documents

attached therewith is Ex.PW25/B2, call details of Delhi are Ex.PW25/C,

call details of Haryana are Ex.PW25/D, Call details of Himachal are

Ex.PW25/E. Relevant location chart of Himachal, Delhi and Haryana

as Ex.PW25/F to H respectively. Certificate u/s 65-B Evidence Act as

Ex.PW25/J.

 In cross examination he stated that as per records of the

company, Dheeraj Kumar was owner and user of said phone. He was

not associated with direction, control or administration of activities

relating to the capturing of data. He could not tell exact pre requisite
 of Section 65-B Evidence Act. He denied that he was not competent

to sign certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act. He denied that alpha

numeric number suggests human intervention as automated process

of computer cannot commit an error of such a technical nature. 31. PW-21 Dr. Sharad Manar, CMO Balaji Action Medical Institute

examined Shivnath vide MLC Ex.PW21/A. PW-22 SI Mahesh Kumar,

Draftsman prepared scaled site plan Ex.PW22/A. In his cross

examination by accused persons he denied that he did not visit the

spot or that he prepared the scaled site plan at the instance of IO.

PW-23 Ct. Sukhram Pal was in the mobile Crime team. He took

photographs Ex.PW23/A1 to A10 negatives of which are Ex.PW23/A11

to A20. PW24 SI Hawa Singh brought accused Sunil Malik from Nahan

to Delhi in the morning of 01.01.2011. 32. PW-26 SI Surender Singh is the person to whom copy of DD

No.14-A was initially given and who went to Balaji Action hospital. He

recorded statements of mother and wife of the deceased. He

prepared inquest papers, recorded statements regarding identification

of dead body. He took into possession the wooden box containing the

viscera of the deceased sealed with the seal of hospital, one envelope

containing blood gauge sealed with the seal of hospital, envelope
 containing blood gauge sealed with the seal of hospital and sample

seal. He went to the spot, called the crime team, got the scene

photographed, seized two pillows, empty bottle of whisky and bunch

of hair. He identified the big pillow as Ex.P1 (duplicate) and small

pillow as Ex.P2 (duplicate), empty bottle of whisky Ex.P3 (duplicate),

plastic container containing bunch of hair Ex.P4 (duplicate). In cross examination he stated that doctor did not tell him

that it was an unnatural death. He denied that post mortem report

was prepared and handed over to him by the concerned doctor on

26.12.2010 itself after completion of post-mortem examination. He

did not feel that it was a case of natural death, on seeing the dead

body. PW-27 ASI Azad Singh is the Incharge of mobile Crime team.

He deposed that there was a blood stained pillow on the bed and

bunch of hairs. He proved his report as Ex.PW27/A. In cross

examination he admitted that he did not mention about the whisky

bottle lying at the spot in his report Ex.PW27/A. 33. PW-28 ASI Siri Kishan went to Nahan for recovery of mobile

phone which was seized vide memo Ex.PW28/A. The phone was of

make LAVA. The same was identified as Ex.P6. In cross examination

he stated that he did not know how IO called Sh. Rajender Bansal at
 the shop, whether by giving him a phone call or by sending one of the

officials of the police party. Rajender Bansal was not asked to sign the

seizure memo of mobile phone nor any public person who had come

there was asked to sign the seizure memo. There were shops around

the shop of accused. He volunteered that all the shops were closed.

On the back side of the shops it is residential area. No person was

called to join the search, from that residential area. No police official

from the Police Post was called to join the search. He denied that no

search of the shop of the accused was conducted or that no mobile

phone was produced by the accused or seized by the police. 34. PW-29 HC Hawa Singh remained with the IO throughout the

investigation. He proved further disclosure statement of accused

Shobha as Ex.PW29/A, arrest memo and personal search of accused

Sunil as Ex.PW29/B and C. In cross examination by counsel for

accused Shobha he admitted that people were passing through the

road in front of the house of deceased, when they went there. IO

requested 1-2 passers-by to join the investigation but they refused.

No notice was given to them. He denied that Shobha did not produce

any Micromax phone before the IO or the same was already in the

custody of the IO. The mobile phone was not sealed at the time of

seizure. They went to ground floor where they met Ekta Sachdeva
 and her husband. IO requested passers-by on the street to join

investigation but they refused. IO did not request any neighbourer to

join the investigation. NOKIA 3110 C is easily available in the market.

But said phone was in switched of condition at the time of seizure.

The said phone was never switched on by the IO or anybody else in

the police party till the time it was deposited in the malkhana. No call

or SMS was made through said phone by the IO. He denied that no

disclosure statements were made by the accused persons in his

presence or that no seizures were made. In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil he stated

that many public persons were present in the P.S at the time

interrogation of Sunil was started. IO did not join any of them. IO did

not call any person from surrounding houses. He denied that false

entries were made by the IO in the hotel record at the PS. 35. PW-30 Jagbir was Head Constable in the Delhi Police at the

relevant time. He took three pullandas sealed with the seal ,

impression of which he did not remember, one sample seal and one

blood gauge to FSL Rohini vide RC No.28/21 and 29/21. He also took

one wooden box sealed with the seal, impression of which he did not

remember to FSL Rohini. So long as pullandas remained with him, the
 same were not tampered with. 36. PW-31 HC Surender Kumar MHC(M) proved copy of entry No.

4400 dated 26.12.2010 regarding deposit of property in malkhana as

Ex.PW31/A. Copies of road certificates as Ex.PW31/B to D. PW-33 HC

Sri Pal made a statement similar to that of PW-31. In cross

examination by counsel for accused Sunil he stated that if SHO or any

other police official see the property in malkhana, no entry is made in

malkhana register. He volunteered that entry is made in roznamcha

register and in this case the SHO or any other official did not see the

property in malkhana. 37. PW-32 Inspector Deepak Sharma is the IO. He proved rukka

as Ex.PW32/A, site plan as Ex.PW32/B and about various other steps

taken by him in the investigation. He identified mobile phone make

LAVA having dual SIM and two IMEI numbers as Ex.P6-A. He proved

application for collecting ownership and call details of different phones

as Ex.PW32/C, D, D1, E, F and G. He proved reports of FSL as

Ex.PW32/H to K. He identified mobile phone make Sony Erricson as

Ex.P1-A (already exhibited as Ex.P1 duplicate). In cross examination by counsel for accused Sunil, he

denied that he recorded statements of mother, sister and other
 relatives of deceased on 30.12.2010 or that he was deliberately

concealing the same. He denied that he had unofficially obtained the

call details from various service providers much before he officially

wrote to them. He denied that he could not connect the conversation

between two accused on the basis of alleged unofficial details or that

later on he got the call details manipulated. IMEI number has been

mentioned as Nil on seizure memo Ex.PW6/A as the same was not

visible. He did not mention the fact that same was not visible, on

seizure memo Ex.PW6/A. He did not try to find out the same by

putting a battery and applying the code as he was not aware of that

procedure by that time. He did not send mobile phone Ex.P4 seized

vide memo Ex.PW6/A to FSL for knowing the IMEI number or SIM

number. He denied that he had been taking the said mobile phone

from MHC(M) during investigation. Even on receipt of call details he

did not come to know about IMEI number of the said phone. On

seeing the call details he admitted that same contains IMEI number.

He denied that after coming to know about IMEI number, he tampered

with the same on the mobile phone and got the same inserted on

telephone set. He did not send the bunch of hairs seized from the

spot for comparison with hairs of any of the accused. He explained he

did not do so as there were no chances of hair of the accused being
 found below pillow. He volunteered that the same simply shows

struggle. He did not send empty liquor bottle for chemical analysis.

He explained that he did not send the empty liquor bottle to FSL as

the same was not having any finger prints and no purpose could have

been served. He did not send the empty liquor bottle to FSL for

finding out whether it contained finger prints or spurious liquor. He

denied that he has manipulated false disclosure by Shobha to Geeta

and other relatives. He denied that in investigation accused Shobha

had thrown doubt on Geeta. No public person was present in the PS

at the time of interrogation of accused Sunil Malik. There is

overwriting in the name of Anil Kumar/ witness on disclosure of Sunil

which is Ex.PW29/E. Initially he intended to write his name but by

mistake he recorded some other name. There is overwriting in the

designation and belt No. of said witness as constable. He did not take

specimen writing and signature of Shobha for comparing with visitor

register entry of hotel. He did not obtain specimen writing and

signature of accused Sunil to ascertain that signature or handwriting

on application for SIM was of Sunil. In cross examination by counsel for accused Shobha, he

stated that he did not give any notice u/S 91 CrPC to the authorities of

Toll plaza to produce record of payment regarding vehicle of Aman.
 He denied that he did not try to do so as said vehicle never crossed

toll plaza. He did not know if any spiderman box is readily available in

market with which desired/fake IMEI number can be installed/uploaded

on any mobile instrument. 38. After completion of prosecution evidence, statements of

accused Shobha and Sunil u/S 313 CrPC. were recorded separately. In

her statement accused Shobha denied that on 25.12.2010 at about

12.30 AM when PW-2 returned, she was accompanied by her fiancée

and cousins who wanted to come upstairs but she stopped them. She

denied that she told that Shiv was sleeping and asked them not to go

upstairs in his room. She denied that at about 2.45 AM she came

outside her room and unexpectedly saw PW-2 in the drawing room on

which a shock appeared at her face. She denied that she was

insisting for not taking Shiv to Balaji hospital or was asking for calling

a doctor at home. She denied that police recorded her statement in

hospital on 26.12.2010. She denied having told that Shiv woke up at

6.30 AM or was feeling cold or she gave another blanket. In fact she

had not slept with Shiv in his bed room and had slept on the diwan.

She denied having made extra judicial confession before PW-2 or her

Chachi Kiran. After kriya ceremony of Shiv on 28.12.2010, her

mother-in- law and Geeta asked her to sign certain papers typed on
 stamp paper. Her brother, parents and relatives told her that the

same were regarding giving up all rights in the properties after the

death of Shiv. On 29.12.2010 in PS she was again asked to sign the

papers and was threatened that in case she would not sign the

papers, she would be falsely implicated for death of her husband.

She denied that PW-2 found mobile phone make Sony Erricson or that

she gave bag to the wife of PW-6. She denied that PW-7 handed over

the said bag to police. She denied that PW-13 Shyama Devi saw

marks of scratches near both sides of nose of Shivnath and impression

of bleeding from nose or her telling that Shivnath had fallen from

stairs. She never used mobile with number 8091497835. She

expressed ignorance about other formalities completed by the police

during investigation. According to her, her false implication appeared

to be brain child of Geeta and her fiancée Sachin who had stood to

gain properties worth over Rs.4 Crores after the death of her husband

and her false implication in the present case. PWs are interested

witnesses and have deposed falsely. She opted to lead D.E. She

always considered Geeta as her younger sister and was holding a

secret of her life pertaining to her affair with one Prince in 2006. She

did not tell the said fact to her husband or mother-in-law but Geeta

was always apprehensive that she could disclose the said fact after
 her marriage. She was already doubting that Geeta and her fiancée

played some role in the death of Shiv specifically after she observed

that Geeta was not sad about death of her brother. She repeated the

plea of taking loan for marriage of PW-2 and added that loan could

have very well been returned, had the marriage of Geeta been done in

simple manner instead of lavish manner in expensive Silver Oak farm

house. PW-13 used to remain annoyed with her as she could not

deliver a child for 10 years. Her mother-in-law or Geeta withdrew

amount against her ATM card after taking the password of her ATM

card from her personal belongings in the house. Spiderman box is

readily available in market with which desired/fake IMEI number can

be installed/uploaded on any instrument and the same has been used

by the IO in the present case. No entries were made by her in the

hotel record. 39. Accused Sunil Malik denied his involvement. According to

him Dheeraj Kumar is not his associate. He has not come to Delhi

with said Dheeraj Kumar. He did not apply for obtaining SIM card of

phone number 8091497835. On 31.12.2010 at about 11.00 AM police

had taken him from his shop to Police Post Nahan. Thereafter Sh.

V.C.Jain, Advocate came and met the officials of Delhi Police to enquire

about his being taken into custody. The police disclosed that he was
 required for enquiry but did not disclose the details. He denied having

made disclosure Ex.PW29/E and Ex.PW29/F. He pleaded innocence

and opted to lead DE. 40. Accused Shobha examined two witnesses in defence. D1W1

Aseem Kumar Tirkey, Asstt. Director/ Department of Telecom, Ministry

of Communication & IT produced copy of circular dated 27.04.2009

and 03.09.2009 issued by Department of Telecom which are

Ex.D1W1/A and B. 41. D1W2 C.K.Pathak, Vice President (Regulatory and Corporate

Affairs) in AB Mobile Standards Alliance India Pvt. Ltd. deposed that

his company was authorized reporting body of Global System For

Mobile Communication Association to allocate IMEI and MEID numbers

to GSM and CDMA mobile devices in India. There are four companies

across the world handling the allocation of IMEI numbers globally. His

company was exclusively handling allocation of IMEI numbers in South

Asia. During 2008 all types of IMEI number including fake, null,

without IMEI handset were operational in India. The same was threat

to security and then Govt. of India directed that only those IMEI

numbers which are genuine and entered in database managed by

GSMA would remain operational. Some customers not having genuine
 IMEI numbers made a protest and Govt. issued instruction authorizing

his company to implant genuine IMEI number on those handsets. For

that nearly 1600 centers were set up across the country which

implanted new genuine IMEI numbers with the help of device available

in market. More than one Lac such IMEI numbers were implanted.

The amnesty programme was open till 30.11.2009 as per letter copy

of which is Ex.D1W2/B. IMEI number in any set can be changed with

the help of software of relevant device. In cross examination by Ld. Addl.PP, he stated that IMEI

number taken out by him from the phone of Addl.PP was genuine. The

same was registered in 2007. He could not tell since when the IMEI

number on instrument of NOKIA 3110 C which is case property of the

present case was on the above set. If IMEI number of one set is

implanted on other set his company would not be able to detect the

change of set. They have received 30,000/- to 40,000/- handset

seized by the police in which cloned IMEI numbers have been

implanted. Same IMEI number can be used in more than one set of

same make. Process of implanting cloned IMEI number is in practice

since 2008 approximately. The software used for providing IMEI

number is available on net and can be downloaded by any dealer. He

could not tell whether IMEI number of this case has been changed or
 not. To his knowledge none else can also tell this fact. 42. In his defence accused Sunil examined two witnesses.

D2W1 Sh. V.C.Jain, Advocate deposed about his visit to Police Post

Nahan on 31.12.2010 to ascertain about custody of accused Sunil.

D2W2 Virender is the salesman of the shop of accused. He stated that

on 31.12.2010 at about noon time police came to the shop and took

away Sunil Malik to Police Post Nahan. At that time accused took

mobile phone alongwith him. After that police did not come to the

shop of Sunil at any time. Dalip was also working at the medical store

who had left the service in July/August, 2010 and went to Ghaziabad.

He obtained mobile no.8091497835. In cross examination by

Ld.Addl.PP he denied that he never worked at the medical store of

Sunil Malik or that police did not take said accused in his presence on

31.12.2010. 43. I have gone through the material on record and heard the

arguments at length. I have also perused the written arguments filed

by counsels for both accused. 44. As per post mortem report the cause of death was asphyxia

consequent to obstruction of airways by combined effect of manual

strangulation of neck and smothering. All injuries were antemortem
 and fresh in duration. The same establishes one fact that death was

homicidal and not natural. The only question which remains to be

decided is as to who caused the said death. 45. For that Ld.Addl.PP submitted that extra judicial confession

by accused Shobha to PW-2 Geeta and PW-3 Kiran is one of the

strongest arm of prosecution. Motive of getting rid of Shivnath to

clear way for marriage of two accused furnishes strength to the case

of prosecution. The same coupled with conduct of the accused

Shobha in telling her mother-in-law about non awakening of deceased,

stopping fiancée and cousins of Geeta from going upstairs lends

support to the case of prosecution. The third factor is the fact of

accused Shobha being last seen in the company of deceased, while

sleeping together. In these circumstances it was for accused Shobha

to explain when and how Shivnath died. Production of phone Ex.P6 by

accused Shobha from almirah of her bedroom and handing over of

phone by Shobha to Ekta and production thereof by Ekta to police

lends support to the case of prosecution. Location of phone of

accused Sunil in Delhi is yet another corroborative factor. Entries of

hotel establishes that accused Sunil stayed there. False defences that

Shivnath was ill, suffered loss in business, love between sister of the

deceased and her fiancée, death having taken place due to
 suffocation complete the chain of circumstances. Existence of scratch

and bleeding marks near the nose of deceased add to the case of

prosecution. 46. Ld. Addl.PP relied upon State of U.P Vs M.K.Anthony AIR

1985 SC 48 in which conviction of an accused for murder of his wife

on the basis of extra judicial confession was held proper. In Para 15 it

was held that there is neither any rule of law nor of prudence that

evidence furnished by extra judicial confession cannot be relied upon

unless corroborated by some other credible evidence. 47. Ld. Addl.PP also relied upon Raj Kumar Prasad Tamarkar Vs

State of Bihar 2007(1) AD Criminal 308 SC in which it was held that

once the prosecution has been able to show that at the relevant time

the room and terrace were in exclusive occupation of the couple, the

burden of proof lay upon the accused to show under what

circumstances death was caused to his wife. The onus was on him. 48. Ld.Addl.PP also relied upon Manoj & Anr. Vs State 2010(3)JCC 1767 in which our own Hon'ble High Court held that

contradiction and improvement in the testimony of prosecution

witnesses cannot be fatal to the prosecution case when it is not found

to modulate his previous statement to suit the case of the
 prosecution. His differently narrating the same incident on two

occasions can be attributed to his poor vocabulary and his mental

condition at the time of crime. While deposing in Court after seven

months, his low literary level and imperfect recollection lead him to

speak differently. 49. On the other hand counsels for accused persons urged that

there is no direct evidence in the case in hand. The entire case is

based upon circumstantial evidence and law regarding circumstantial

evidence is that conviction on circumstantial evidence can be possible

only when incriminating facts are incompatible with innocence. For

this reliance can be placed on Bantu Vs State of UP 2009(1) Apex

Decision Crl.SC 175. The said proposition is undisputable but that

does not mean that in no case conviction can be based on

circumstantial evidence. 50. The counsel for accused Shobha forcefully argued that no

one would confide with a person from whom he can have

apprehension of being put in danger. According to him accused would

confide with someone who is his/her well wisher, in whom he can

repose confidence that said person would not reveal the same to the

third person. Viewed from that angle, it is impossible to believe that
 Shobha did not make a confession before her parents and brother

during the four days they were with her till Uthala. It cannot be

believed that she made a sudden confession before her nanad Geeta

who was a highly risky person as she had lost her brother. According

to him the possibility of chachi being present at the time of alleged

confession by Shobha to Geeta are bleak as all relatives would leave

after Uthala is over. 51. Counsel for accused relied upon Balvinder Singh Vs State of

Punjab 1996 SC 607 to make out that extra judicial confession by its

very nature is a weak type of evidence. 52. In 2003(6) Apex Decision SC 428 State of Rajasthan Vs

Rajaram it was held that extra judicial confession can be sole basis of

conviction. In Pakkirisamy Vs State of Tamil Nadu 1998 Cri.L.J.89 it

was held that extra judicial confession is like any other evidence. In Kulvinder Singh Vs State of Haryana 2011(5)SCC 258 and B.A. Umesh

Vs Registrar 2011(3)SCC 85 it was held that extra judicial confession

can be accepted if it passes test of credibility. 53. I have pondered over the arguments and find myself unable

to persuade with the same. There is no hard and fast rule as to before

whom a person would admit his guilt. A man may act differently if he
 is not a hardened criminal. His conscious may prick him to tell truth. In taking this view I am fortified by H.P. Administration Vs Om Prakash AIR 1972 SC 975 where in Para no.17 it was held as under: 54. Viewed in the above light, I feel that case of the prosecution

that Shobha made extra judicial confession before Geeta is reliable.

Shobha herself has stated in her statement u/S 313 CrPC that she

used to treat Geeta as her younger sister. Thus she had occasion to

repose confidence in Geeta. Merely because Geeta revealed it to the

police does not cause any dent. 55. Regarding presence of Kiran Devi at the time of alleged

confession by Shobha to Geeta it may be observed that she was not

an ordinary relative. She is a close relative being chichi. She was

living in neighbourhood just one gali behind the house of the

deceased. Thus her chances of visiting even after Uthala are not

abnormal. One has a tendency to make efforts to console the family,
 particularly in the case of a shocking death like the present one where

a young person of about 32 years has been murdered. 56. The counsel for accused Shobha stressed that statements of

relatives need to be scrutinized with caution. He emphasized on Sharad Birdi Chand Vs State of Maharashtra AIR 1984 SC 1622. In

particular he relied upon para 48 of the judgment in which it has been

held as below:- 57. The arguments advanced by the counsel for the accused

omits to take notice of the fact that there is a difference between

related witness and interested witness. Every related witness is not
 an interested witness. Interested witness is one who has some

interest in seeing the accused convicted or who has some enmity

against the accused. In Chander Mohan Vs State (Delhi Admn .) 2001(4) Apex Decision Delhi 29 Division Bench , Bharosi & Ors. Vs

State of M.P 2002(7) judgment today 25, State Vs Bal Kishan @ Bali 130(2006) DLT 242 Division Bench, related witness was relied. In State

of Punjab Vs Karnail Singh 2003(6) Apex Decision SC 407 close

relative was held to be not a partisan witness. 58. Recently Division Bench of our own Hon'ble High Court in

case titled as Karamvir Vs. State 2012 VII AD Delhi 262 held that being

son of victim, he was interested to bring real culprit to book. Thus

conviction based upon testimony of a son of victim was upheld. 59. The argument of counsel for the accused misses to note

that accused Shobha was the last person in company of the

deceased. It is for her to explain how Shivnath had died. In Milan

Singh Vs State 2012 IX AD Delhi 37 Division Bench of our own Hon'ble

High Court held that where gap between point of time when the

accused and the deceased were last seen alive and deceased was

found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the

accused being author of crime becomes impossible. 60. In the case of Babu Vs Babu (2003)7SCC, Hon'ble Supreme

Court observed:- 61. The case in hand squarely falls in the ratio of the above

case . 62. The accused had tried to put forward that she was not

sleeping in the room of deceased. Rather she was sleeping on a

diwan in the drawing room which is diagonally opposite to the bed

room. First of all it does not appeal to mind that a wife would sleep

separately from her husband without there being any differences

amongst them. Secondly this fact has not been suggested to PW-2,

PW-3 and PW-13 in their cross examination. This is a plea coming for

the first time in statement u/S 313 CrPC. This provides missing link, if

any. In this regard reliance can be placed on State of Maharashtra Vs

Suresh 1999(9) J.T 513. 63. In Md. Mahiruddin & Ors. Vs State of Bihar 1998(5) Apex

Decision SC 354 it was held that " false defence fills up chain of

circumstance and is sufficient for conviction. 64. The other false defence tried to be set up by accused

person is that Shobha has been implicated to deprive her of property

of her husband. This defence is after thought as it was not put in

cross examination of PWs. Moreover, there was no property in name

of her husband. Flat No.B-2/162, Paschim Vihar is in the name of

mother of deceased. It is true that same was purchased from sale

proceeds of earlier H.No.B2/224, Paschim Vihar, Delhi. But it has not

come on record in whose name said house was. It cannot be

presumed that said house was in name of father of deceased and so

present flat became ancestral property. 65. In fact all possible defences have been put forward.

Accused have tried to explore that Geeta was involved in murder and

that is why she cooked confession by Shobha before her. Strictly

speaking it demolishes defence that none suspected any foul play in

death of Shivnath. Rather it supports case of prosecution that death

was result of intentional act of someone. 66. Reason for suspecting Geeta was that she was not sad on
 death of her brother. This is only apprehension. One cannot remain

tense all the twenty four hours. Another reason to suspect Geeta is

that her marriage was performed on date already fixed and that too

lavishly. The same has been explained suitably by mother as PW13

that in their family marriage is not postponed after Ardas of Guru,

number of invitees were reduced. Simply performing marriage in

Farm house does not make it lavish. Geeta was only daughter of

PW-13 who could not have taken risk of social stigma that marriage of

Geeta was just an empty formality as her brother had died. Delay in

marriage might have resulted in break of marriage already fixed. 67. Third reason for suspecting Geeta is that she never

remained out of house late in night before 25.12.2010. But there is no

evidence to show that deceased had exchange of hot words with

Geeta on this issue. His mere asking Geeta on phone to come early is

simply piece of advice. The suspicion on that account is unfounded. 68. Appreciation of evidence was beautifully explained by

Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of UP Vs M.K.Anthony AIR 1985 SC 48

wherein guidelines have been laid down as to how evidence should be

appraised: In Bharuda Broginbhai Harjibhai Vs State of Gujarat AIR 1983 S.C.

753 it has been held that over much importance cannot be attached
 to minor discrepancies and the reasons are obvious. 1. By and large a witness cannot be expected to
 possess a photographic memory and to recall the details
 of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is replayed on
 the mental screen. 2. Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken
 by events. The witness could not have anticipated the
 occurrence which so often has an element of surprise.
 This mental faculties, therefore, cannot be expected to
 be attuned to absorb the details. 3. The powers or observations differ from person to
 person, what one may notice, another may not. An object
 or movement might emboss image of one person's mind,
 whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another. 4. By and large people cannot accurately recall a
 conversation and reproduce the very words used by
 them or heard by them. They can only recall the main
 purport of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a
 witness to be a human tape recorder. 5. In regard to exact time of an incident or the time
 duration of an occurrence, usually, people make their
 estimates by guess work on spur of moment at the time
 of interrogation and one cannot expect people make very
 precise or reliable estimates in such matters. Again, it
 depends upon the time-sense of individuals which varies
 from person to person. 6. Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall
 accurately the sequence of events which takes place in
 rapid succession or in a short time span. A witness is
 liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated
 later on. 7. A witness though wholly truthful, is liable to be
 overawed by the Court atmosphere and the piercing
 cross-examination made by counsel and out of
 nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding
 sequence of events, or fill up details of imagination
 on the spur of the moment. The sub-conscious mind
 of the witness sometimes so operates on account of
 the fear of looking foolish or being disbelieved
 though the witness is giving a truthful and honest
 account of the occurrence witnessed by him
 perhaps it is a sort of psychological moment." In Boys Ganganna and another Vs State of Andhra Pradesh AIR

1976 Supreme Court page 164 it was held: 69. The counsel for accused referred to various omissions on

the part of IO such as failure to send the empty liquor bottle to FSL,

the bunch of hairs to FSL, taking of specimen writing of accused and

sending them to FSL for comparison with the entries in hotel register,

to send the mobile phone to FSL to ascertain their IMEI number and

SIM number. By now the law is well settled that irregularities due to

remissness of IO should not weigh with the Court. In this regard

reference with advantage may be made to decision of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Kashinath Mundal Vs State of West Bengal 2012

Vol.VII Apex Decision SC 365. 70. The counsel for accused emphasized that according to post-

mortem report death took place around 2.30 in the night. If that is so,

the story put forward by the prosecution that Shivnath woke up at

6.30 AM, complained of cold, Shobha put a blanket on him is falsified. In this regard he relied upon State of Andhra Pradesh Vs Punati

Ramulu 1994(3) Chandigarh Crl.Cases 6 SC where it was held that if

the investigation is tainted, the entire case falls. He also relied upon

Ram Padarath Gami Vs State 2012 III AD Crl.38 where our own Hon'ble

High Court held that where in post-mortem time of death differs with

prosecution case, the prosecution case becomes suspect. For same

preposition reliance was placed by counsel for accused on Tanviben

Panbai Kumar Divetia Vs State of Gujarat AIR 1997 SC 2193. 71. First of all opinion about time of death in the post-mortem

report is after all an opinion and is always subject to permissible

variations and fluctuations. Moreover, the maxim one lie-whole lie

generally does not apply to criminal case as per Division Bench

decision of our own Hon'ble High Court in Gulshan Kumar Vs State 1993(2) Chandigarh Cril.Cases 8. The same is not applicable in India

as per Smt. Shakila Abdul Gafar Khan Vs Vasant Raghunath Dhoble &

Anr. 2003(8) Apex Decision SC 203. Not only this as per Ugar Ahir &

Ors. Vs The State of Bihar AIR 1965 SC 277, one false is not sufficient

to make other part also false. 72. Counsel for accused Shobha highlighted certain so called

improvements in the statement of PW-13. PW-13 deposed that she
 gave a statement to the police on 26.12.2010 but no such statement

is available on record. She did not mention to the police that she

found the body of Shiv to be stiff. According to her none objected to

Shiv being removed to Balaji Hospital whereas according to PW-2

Geeta, accused Shobha objected to the same. This is a contradiction

according to him. PW-13 deposed that she did not give any statement

after arrest of accused which is contrary to the record. PW-13

admitted that Geeta did not tell anything to her about the incidents

which took place in the night between 25.12.2010 and 26.12.2010,

when she woke up. 73. After giving my sincere thought to the argument I do not

find any force in the aforesaid arguments. Marginal variations over

statement u/S 161 CrPC cannot be dubbed as improvement with

sinister motive. Statement of the informant basically remains same.

This is so as per Chandershekhar Suresh Chandra Bhatt & Ors. Vs

State of Maharashtra 2000(9) J.T 598. As per Alamgir Vs State (NCT of

Delhi ) AIR 2003 Supreme Court 282 omission of fact u/S 161 CrPC is

not to discard statement in Court. As per A. Shankar Vs State of

Karnataka III (2011) DLT Crl. 29 SC exaggeration or details are not

omission or contradiction. 74. For the same reason the argument that according to PW-2

deceased had a suspicion on accused Shobha, is improvement over

her statement u/S 161 CrPC deserves to be rejected. 75. Counsel for the accused took pains to argue that according

to IO he made enquiries from Anand Longani whether he wanted to go

upstairs with Geeta and whether Shobha stopped him, as deposed by

PW-13. But he did not record the statement of Anand Longani.

Argument does not appeal to mind. Prosecution is not to produce

each and every witness as per Raja Vs State 1997(2) Apex Decision

Delhi 186. At the most it can be a lapse on the part of IO and I have

already held above that mere lapse on the part of IO is not sufficient

to discard the case of prosecution. 76. According to counsel for the accused the version regarding

visiting of Vaishno Devi alongwith Kewal/saala of the deceased despite

suspicion on wife/accused Shobha is unnatural. I fail to understand as

to what the counsel for the accused wants to make out of it. Visit to

Vaishno Devi, whether alone or alongwith Kewal are not the issues in

the present case and have no bearing on the outcome of the case. 77. The counsel for accused stressed much that according to

PW-2 and PW-3 when accused Shobha made extra judicial confession,
 PW-17 was also present. But PW-17 did not say so. According to said

witness police was already there when he reached and police was

making enquiry from the accused. So question of PW-17 being

present at the time of extra judicial confession by accused before

PW-2 and PW-3 is not established. Again I feel that even if statement

of PW-17 to that extent is excluded, it does not make any difference. 78. The counsel for accused stressed certain contradictions

regarding recovery of mobile phone from PW Ekta. According to

PW-17 it was night time, they went to first floor, the house of Ekta was

in same row. But according to PW-29 they reached at 9.30 AM and

stayed there for 5 hours. No relative was present, he gave house

number as 168 instead of 167. According to PW-32 he did not enter

the house of Ekta, she herself came down and her husband produced

the bag containing mobile phone. He stayed for 20-25 minutes only.

These are minor contradictions. 79. The counsel for accused emphasized that the IO did not

make any effort to trace the charger of the mobile phone. He did not

explain how he found the SIM number of the said mobile phone when

the same was in switched of mode. The IMEI number of the phone has

been planted by the IO. According to PW-19 the roaming details are
 available with Aircel but according to witness from Aircel as PW-20,

there are no voice calls. Again the same are insignificant. 80. Counsel for accused Shobha did not miss to argue that hotel

entry was not sent to FSL for finding out in whose handwriting the

same was. The Manager of the hotel turned hostile as he deposed

that he could not identify who was brought by the police to the hotel

at the time of seizure of hotel entry. I am not impressed by the

argument. It is nothing but sluggishness on the part of IO. 81. The argument that witness from BSNL was dropped by the

prosecution is an attempt to kick dust in the air. Prosecution can drop

any witness at any time. If the accused thought that it was a material

witness, accused could have summoned him in defence. Simply

because the counsel read SMS to PW-2 from mobile phone is not

conclusive to hold that any SMS was received on that phone or was

replied from that phone. 82. The fact that PW-2 or PW-13 made withdrawal of Rs.11,000/-

from ATM of accused Shobha, after arrest of Shobha is inapt to show

that the accused persons are greedy. The amount is so less that it

cannot result in any inference being drawn. The plea of family

members of deceased putting papers regarding relinquishment of
 rights of Shobha in the property of her husband, in the house and by

the IO in PS is all afterthought. No such suggestion was put to the

PWs during their cross examination. This has come for the first time

in the statement of accused. 83. One of the bone of contention of counsel for accused Sunil

Malik is that none from the family laid suspicion on anyone even after

post-mortem report. That makes the subsequent frequent enquiries

from Shobha and her making extra judicial confession, doubtful. The

arguments have no merit. Shobha was not an enemy or stranger.

She was close relative being wife of deceased. One is not supposed to

suspect such close relative in the first instance. But with passage of

time and as and as things become cool, one tries to find out after all

how such serious act happened. So conduct of family members

making enquiry from Shobha was quite natural. 84. Counsel for the accused Sunil Malik urged that the call

details do not show the contents of conversation. It cannot be

presumed that the same were regarding love affair of the two

accused. Both the accused belong to same place and there was

nothing wrong in their talking on phone. To some extent he may be

correct but having so extensive talk is not a positive sign. Frequency
 of talks is alarming. 85. The counsel for accused Sunil Malik argued that call details

are not certified as required by Section 65-B Evidence Act. So they

are to be excluded as per the decision in Ravi Kant Sharma Vs State 183 (2011) DLT 248. He also banked upon decision in Crl.Appeal No.

927/2008 titled as Brij Kishore and Anr. Vs State decided by our own

Hon'ble High Court in 10.05.2010. According to the said judgment ,

the certificate u/S 65-B Evidence Act has to be issued by a person in

whose custody the device in which document was stored in an

electronic form, printout was generated. PWs 19, 20 and 25 stated

that they have not seen the server in which data was stored. They

simply generated the statement from computer. The data related to

so many persons is stored in one server and those persons neither

have a chance to have access to the server. It is sufficient if they can

generate the data with the help of that server. The requirement is

that generation of data must be by authorized person. What I have

been able to deduce from the above judgment is that such evidence

cannot be exhibited when the police officials tender the same by

saying that he procured it. In the instant case the persons who

generated the same have been examined and the statements have

not been proved by the IO alone. 86. Over and above all I may mention that call details are only

an additional mode of proving the case. It is not the only way to

establish the case. Cases used to be proved when the technology of

call details was not there. 87. Counsel for the accused Sunil Malik submitted that PW-13

did not say that her statement was recorded by the IO in the hospital

on 26.12.2010 itself but IO proved said statement as Ex.PW26/A. He

pointed out that PW-13 admitted that Shobha was not defying her

husband. From this he wanted me to hold that Shobha could not have

gone to the extent of killing her husband. I am at a loss to appreciate

the argument. None knows when the mind of a person could change.

It is not necessary that one should be defying from long before. 88. According to him conduct of PW-2 is very strange. She went

out of Delhi on 25.12.2010, remained out of house till late in the night,

had to be telephonically called by the deceased. Even after reaching

the house, she remained busy in talking with her fiancée on telephone

for hours in the night despite the fact that she had already remained

with him for couple of hours in Gurgaon. This does not have any

bearing on the case. It reflects the change of trend over passage of

time. The young generation prefers to have his/her own friends rather
 than elders/family members. 89. Counsel for the accused Sunil Malik submitted that for Section 27 Evidence Act to be invoked, past acts are not relevant.

What is to be seen is the fact distinctly recovered in pursuance of the

information given by the accused to the police. He relied upon

decision starting from Pulukuri Kottaya AIR 1947 Previ Counsel 67 to

Aloknath's case 2008(2) SCC Crl. 264 Para 53. In between there was a

judgment in Vinod Kumar Vaidh & Anr. Vs. State 1992(2) C. C.Cases

211 DB. The said preposition is undisputable but does not help the

accused in the present case. 90. Counsel for the accused also submitted that no public

witness was joined at the time of seizure of mobile phone from Ekta or

at the time of seizure of mobile phone from the shop of accused Sunil

Malik from Nahan, Himachal. It is not that efforts were made to join

and the witnesses did not agree. Rather it is a case in which IO did

not make any efforts even. I do not find any distinction between the

two. When it is a matter of common knowledge that public persons do

not want to entangle themselves in police cases or Court cases in the

fear of being made to attend the Courts repeatedly, it is not expected

from the IO to make the request in futile. Rather that may give an
 occasion for losing the recovery as in the meantime the accused may

make the property to disappear. It was held in Anil Vs State 1996(3)

Judgment Today 120 that non compliance of Section 100 CrPC is not to

vitiate trial. In AIR 2001 SC 93 Manish Dixit & Ors. Vs State of

Rajasthan with Devender K. Sharma Vs State of Rjasthan & State of

Rajasthan Vs Sarad Dhakar it was held that when public persons are

not willing to join, it is not mandatory to join them. In State, Govt. of

NCT of Delhi Vs Sunil & Anr. 2000 (Supplementary 3) J.T 267 it was

held that recovery in pursuance of disclosure u/S 27 Evidence Act

stands on different footing. No independent witness is required for

that. In State of Rajasthan Vs Teja Ram AIR 1999 SC 1776 and M/s Maxim Lightech (P) Ltd. Vs Small Industries Development, Bank of

India 2011(5) Apex Decision Delhi 499 it was held that over insistence

of witnesses having no relation with victim often results in criminal

justice going awry. 91. Anyhow the argument that only evidence against accused

Sunil Malik is that of extra judicial confession by co-accused Shobha

and the same is not admissible against Sunil Malik atleast, appears to

be probable. Confession is admissible against the maker thereof and

not against other persons. In this regard counsel for the accused

relied upon Sahibe Alam Vs State 2002(3) AD Crl.127 Delhi. For the
 same purpose he also relied upon Sunil Rai Vs Union Territory 2011(3)

Recent Crl.Reporter 636 SC in which it was held that oral extra judicial

confession made by an accused cannot be used against co-accused to

hold him guilty. 92. Last but not the least argument is that incident is of night

between 25.12.2010 and 26.12.2010 whereas the FIR was lodged on

30.12.2010 and there is a delay of 5 days. It is true that delay in FIR

gives rise to a suspicion but at the same time explained delay cures

the defect. All delays are not fatal. In the instant case delay has been

explained. Cause of death came to light on 30.12.2010 when Shobha

made extra judicial confession before PW2 and PW3, FIR was lodged

immediately after that. 93. The theory that Shobha doubted PW-2 Geeta being guilty

demolishes the case of the accused that the death was natural or was

on account of suffocation. The argument that doctor conducting post-

mortem did not find any signs of finger print on the neck to establish

manual strangulation is to be mentioned for being rejected only.

There is evidence on record to show that first neck was pressed after

putting a cushion. In that event there should be no impression of

finger on the neck. It was only when said person did not succeed, that
 as a last resort the neck was pressed with thumb. That pressure

might not be so deep so as to leave an impression of finger. 94. To sum up I find that prosecution has proved its case beyond

reasonable doubt against accused Shobha. She is held guilty and

convicted u/S 302 IPC. However, evidence against accused Sunil Malik

is not sufficient to establish his guilt. Benefit of doubt is given to him

and he is acquitted. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 11TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 2012
 (O.P.GUPTA)
 DJ-CUM-ASJ-INCHARGE (WEST)
 DELHI. IN THE COURT OF SH. O.P.GUPTA: DISTRICT JUDGE-CUM- 1. Accused Shobha has been convicted u/S 302 IPC vide

separate judgment passed today by this Court. 2. I have heard on the quantum of sentence. Ld.Addl.PP

submitted that it is a gruesome murder in which not a stranger but the

wife of the victim has killed him. The offence was pre-meditated and

pre-planned. Generally an enemy kills the opponent. But cases of

wife killing her husband are rare. The only son of PW-13 has been
 murdered thereby closing the family tree for all times to come. The

accused has no sign of remorse even after the death. She continued

participating with the family members and she took all possible

defences in trial also. Thus it is a case in which the maximum

punishment should be given. 3. On the other hand the counsel for the accused submitted

that accused is a lady, she is aged 32 years only, she had no previous

involvement. It cannot be said that she is a menace to the society. 4. The only two punishments which can be awarded in Section

302 IPC are:- (1) death sentence or (2) imprisonment for life. 5. Law regarding imposition of death sentence is that it should

be awarded in rarest of rare cases. Leading decision in this regard is Bachan Singh Vs State of Punjab AIR 1980 Supreme Court 898. The

same was reviewed in Bachittar Singh & Anr. Vs State of Punjab 2002(7)JT 413 and it was held that there should be no death sentence

till the convict is a menace, there are no chances of reformation, is a

continuous threat to the society. Brutality of the offence is not

sufficient to make it rarest of rare as per Subhash Ram Kumar Bind @

Vakil & Anr. Vs State of Maharashtra AIR 2003 SC 269. Very recently

the same has been considered by Hon'ble Apex Court in Sangeet &
 Anr. Vs State of Haryana 2012 XI AD SC 473 where it has been

observed that :- 6. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case and

the rival submissions, I find that it is not rarest of rare case.

Accordingly, the accused is sentenced to imprisonment for life and

fine of Rs.10,000/- in default RI for 6 months. Detention during

investigation and trial be set of as provided by Section 428 CrPC. The

accused is in custody since 31.12.2010. File be consigned to record

room. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 11TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 2012
 (O.P.GUPTA)
 DJ-CUM-ASJ-INCHARGE (WEST)
 DELHI.