J U D G M E N T

WITH 
CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 3422, 3410, 3409, 3405-3408, 
3456-59, 3446-3447, 3402, 3449-3455, 3463-64, 3460, 
3401, 3445, 3399, 3404, 3444, 3441, 3439, 3428-3436, 
3440, 3438, 3442, 3437, 3403, 3427, 3461, 3400, 3477, 
3475, 3423, 3448, 3472-74, 3489, 3491 of 2005 and W.P 
(C) No. 14 of 2004

S.B. SINHA, J. The framers of the Constitution of India created some Constitutional 
Institutions to uphold the Constitutional values; Public Service Commission 
being one of them. Article 315 of the Constitution of India mandates that 
there shall be a Public Service Commission for the Union and a Public 
Service Commission for each of the State. Article 320 provides for the 
functions of the Public Service Commission stating that it is the duty of the 
Union Public Service Commission and the State Public Service 
Commissions to conduct examinations for appointments to the services of 
the Union and the services of the State respectively. In relation to certain 
matters the Union of India and the States are enjoined with the duties to 
consult the Public Service Commission. With a view to uphold the dignity 
and independence of the Public Service Commission, the salaries, 
allowances and pensions payable to the members or staff of the 
Commission, are directed to be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India 
and/or the Consolidated Fund of the State. A Chairman of Public Service 
Commission is removable only by following the procedure laid down under 
the Constitution of India. One Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was the Chairman of the Punjab 
Public Service Commission between 1996 to 2002. Allegations were made 
against him that he got a large number of persons appointed on extraneous 
consideration including monetary consideration. Such appointments were 
said to have been made during the period 1998 to 2001. Raids were 
conducted in his house on more than one occasion. A large sum of money 
(about Rs. 16 crores) was recovered from his custody and other relatives. 
Two First Information Reports; one on 25.3.2002 being FIR No. 7/02 and 
the other on 30.4.2002 being FIR No. 24/02; were lodged against him in that 
behalf. In the said First Information Reports nine officers of PCS (Executive 
Branch) were named but later on the allegations against two of them, viz., 
Rahul and Randip were withdrawn. As against sixty three officers involved 
in the PCS allied services; First Information Report was lodged only against 
one Kamaljeet Singh. So far as appointment to the posts of Tehsildar is 
concerned, FIR was lodged against none. Result sheets of the nominated candidates were seized on 17.5.2002. 
Answer sheets of PCS (Executive Branch) were also seized. On or about 
21.5.2002 the Vigilance Bureau of the State of Punjab wrote a letter to the 
Chief Secretary, Punjab alleging that most of the examinations held during 
the period of Shri Sidhu were tainted. On the next day, a memorandum of 90 
pages was issued. So far as the nominated candidates are concerned, 
Vigilance Department of State, as noticed hereinbefore, received the answer 
sheets for 1998 examination and sent a report to the investigating agency on 
21.5.2002. On that date itself the nominated candidates were given charge 
of the Executive Magistrate but on the next date, i.e., on 22.5.2002, the 
Vigilance Bureau on purported receipt of the details of interview of 
nominated candidates sent a note to a Chief Secretary whereupon orders of 
termination were passed on 23.5.2002. All the officers in the category of 
nominated executive officers were about to complete their period of 
probation. The services of the nominated candidates (Class I Officers) were 
terminated simpliciter purported to be in terms of the Rules, i.e., by 
terminating the probation. The appellants herein comprise of four categories of officers, that is to 
say, (1) Direct recruits in Executive Class I. In the said category services of 
28 persons were terminated. (2) Direct recruits (Allied etc.) being in 
Executive Class II. In the said category services of 63 persons were 
terminated. (3) Nominated candidates being in Executive Class I. Services 
of 18 persons from the said category were terminated. (4) Judicial Officers. 
Judicial Officers were appointed in four batches. Four examinations were 
held for the respective recruitment years of 1997-98, 1998-99, 1999-2000 
and 2000-2001. On the judicial side, following vacancies existed: The contentions raised on behalf of the State, on the other hand, were 
that: The High Court in passing the impugned judgment considered the 
aforementioned submissions of the parties. It noticed a large number of 
decisions and opined that the following propositions be culled out therefrom: The Full Bench of the High Court, however, did not make any 
endeavour to make any distinction between the cases of different categories 
of officers, but relying on or on the basis of the reports and documents 
submitted by the Vigilance Bureau opined that the same revealed the 
following features: books of some of the candidates selected for direct 
recruitment were taken into consideration by the 
High Court by way of illustration in arriving at its 
findings. The High Court moreover pointed out some irregularities found in the 
answer sheets of the some of the candidates in regard whereto 13 purported 
instances were noticed by it. Cases of some of the candidates who were 
denied selection to PCS (EB) by giving unusually low marks in the 
interview were highlighted in the judgment. As many as nine such cases 
were noticed to have been belonging to this category of irregularities. The 
High Court furthermore noticed the purported irregularities in the 
recruitments made for appointment to PCS (Judicial Branch) from the 
written submissions made by the State in respect whereof, cases of 10 
candidates had specifically been noticed. So far as the purported similarity 
in grant of marks in the interview is concerned, the High Court noticed that 
out of the 263 candidates interviewed for selection for direct recruitment to 
PCS (Executive Branch) and Allied Services, 172 candidates were given 
identical marks by the interviewers. 230 candidates had obtained marks 
having difference of one mark and 58 candidates having difference of two 
marks. So far as the nominated candidates are concerned, the High Court 
noticed that no allegation could be made as regards the irregularities and 
illegalities in conducting the written examination, but opined: Considering the overall position of 18 selectees, 
there is a difference of 1 mark of 1 out of 3 
interviewers in the marks of one candidate. Thus, 
same number of marks were awarded to more than 
95% candidates. (2) Even if all the 141 nominated candidates are 
considered there is a difference of 1 mark in 22 out 
of 25 cases. Larger difference is found only in 3 
cases. Then in 9 cases only one interviewer 
differs by 1 mark and in 1 case one interviewer 
differs by 2 marks. This again indicates an 
unusual pattern showing pre-planning and 
manipulation. Here also, same number of marks 
were awarded to more than 98% candidates." It furthermore noticed certain general features in respect of the marks 
given at the via-voce to the other candidates. The judgment of the High Court can be divided into two parts. (A) The High Court in general opined: [Emphasis supplied]

	(B) In regard to the Judicial Officers, it was opined: [Emphasis supplied]

	We have heard a large number of counsel appearing in the appeals 
representing different categories of the appellants. The principal submissions advanced on behalf of the appellants are: The High Court also committed a serious error in relying upon the 
decisions where the principles of natural justice have been held to be 
inapplicable as the said cases relate to: Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of 
the State of Punjab, on the other hand, submitted that: 16 crores were recovered from the lockers/bank accounts/fixed 
deposits standing in the name of the Shri Sidhu and his relatives. (d)	A huge amount has also been transferred through Hawala 
transactions. The Investigating Officer had also recorded the 
inculpating statements of Shri Jaspreet Singh and others which 
clearly point out that serious illegalities were committed in the 
selection making process. (e)	It is nobody's case that the Chairman did not indulge in corruption. (f)	Upon analyzing the mark sheets and other materials, the Vigilance 
Bureau submitted its report wherein inter alia it was found that in 
95% cases the Chairman and Members allotted identical marks in 
the interview to the candidates which is next to impossible as the 
members and the Chairman were supposed to judge the capabilities 
of the candidates separately which clearly show that the provision 
of Rule 17 (a) (iii) of the Commission Rules were flagrantly 
violated or breached. Mr. P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the High 
Court submitted that : We will make endeavours to deal with the cases of different 
categories of officers separately as far as practicable. Appointments to PCS (Executive Branch) and Allied Services relate 
to a single recruitment process. The vacancies were of the year 1994 and 
1996 and those vacancies were advertised by the Punjab Public Service 
Commission in terms of Advertisement No. 10 dated 7.2.1998. This 
advertisement pertained to 93 posts of different cadres of the State 
Government. Out of the aforementioned 93 posts, 28 posts were in PCS 
(Executive Branch). There were 25 additional posts to be filled up by the nominated 
departmental candidates. However, out of the said vacant posts only 18 
were filled up. Amongst the 18 nominated candidates, 14 have been named 
by the witnesses in their statements recorded under Section 164 of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure and FIRs were lodged against them. We have noticed 
hereinbefore that out of total 28 candidates PCS (Executive Branch), 
although, at the initial stage First Information Reports were lodged only 
against 8 candidates, allegations against Rahul Gupta who is said to be the 
son of another member of the Commission and Randeep Singh were 
withdrawn. In the Allied Services out of 63 candidates, First Information Report 
was lodged as against only one of them. So far as those who were appointed 
on the post of Tehsildars are concerned, out of 19, First Information Report 
was lodged against none. It would be of some interest to note that as although in the year 1998, 
a large number of persons were selected in other services as for example, 
365 PCMS Doctors, 60 School Principals, 147 Veterinary Officers, 422 
PCMS Doctors and in the year 1999, 52 Medical Officers Dental, 147 
Agriculture Development Officers, 69 Veterinary Officers and 81 Veterinary 
Officers in 2002 but neither any enquiry was conducted by the State in this 
behalf nor any action was taken to terminate the services of any of the 
candidates of the said service. The State admittedly conducted fresh interview for the nominated 
candidates and held fresh examinations in respect of the Executive Officers 
and non-Executive Officers. So far as the nominated members are 
concerned, three came to be re-selected out of 19 Tehsildars on the basis of 
PCS Exam, 1998. It has also been pointed out that out of 18 nominated selectees who 
had filed writ petitions in the High Court, only 15 candidates have filed 
appeals before us and 12 have been named by the witnesses although First 
Information Reports were initially lodged against them. So far as direct 
recruits to PCS (E.B.) are concerned, 18 have filed appeals before us and 
out of whom 7 were named by the witnesses and the First Information 
Reports were lodged against them. So far as the candidates selected in the 
Allied Services are concerned, out of 63 selected candidates only 24 have 
filed appeals before us and they are not named in the First Information 
Report or as witnesses. It is not in dispute that as regards PCS (E.B.) and Allied Services, the 
names of the selectees have been registered in different registers. So far as the judicial officers are concerned, First Information Report 
has been lodged against the ten of them. Seven candidates, out of the said 
ten candidates named in the First Information Report, belonged to 2001 
Batch. Nobody is named in the First Information Report or figures in the 
statements of the witnesses in respect of the 1998 batch. The 3 candidates 
who have been named in the First Information Report are of 1999 batch and 
2000 batch. The candidates who were selected in 2001 have not been 
appointed at all. We have not, thus, taken into consideration their cases. We at the outset would furthermore notice that having regard the 
submissions made before us by Mr. Dwivedi and Mr. Rao that the services 
of the appellants before us were terminated not in terms of the Rules but in 
view of the commission of illegality in the selection process involved, we 
need not consider the applicability of the relevant provisions of the statutes 
as also the effect of the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution of 
India. An appointment made in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the 
Constitution of India would be void. It would be a nullity. [See Secretary, 
State of Karnataka and Others v. Umadevi and Others , 2006 (4) SCALE 
247] But before such a finding can be arrived at the appointing authority 
must take into consideration the foundational facts. Only when such 
foundational facts are established, the legal principles can be applied. If the services of the appointees who had put in few years of service 
were terminated; compliance of three principles at the hands of the State was 
imperative, viz., to establish (1) Satisfaction in regard to the sufficiency of 
the materials collected so as to enable the State to arrive at its satisfaction 
that the selection process was tainted; (2) determine the question that the 
illegalities committed go to the root of the matter which vitiate the entire 
selection process. Such satisfaction as also the sufficiency of materials were 
required to be gathered by reason of a thorough investigation in a fair and 
transparent manner; (3) Whether the sufficient material present enabled the 
State to arrive at satisfaction that the officers in majority have been found to 
be part of the fraudulent purpose or the system itself was corrupt. Once such findings were arrived at, all appointments traceable to the 
officers concerned could be cancelled. But admittedly, although there had 
been serious imputations against Shri Sidhu being at the helm of the affairs 
of the Commission, all decisions made by the Commission during his tenure 
are yet to be set aside. We do not intend to enter into the said controversy as 
we were informed at the bar that the High Court itself is in sesin of the 
matter. We may, however, note that Mr. Dwivedi in his usual frankness 
stated that there may not be any answer to that query. Apart from inferences drawn on certain facts and in particular the 
circumstances enumerated by the High Court which have been repeated by 
the learned counsel for the State before us, it is difficult to accept that it was 
demonstrated by the State that it was absolutely impossible for it to separate 
the innocent people from the tainted ones. It is also not a case where all the relevant records have been 
destroyed. The Vigilance Bureau does not say so. Questions papers, answer 
sheets and other documents are available. Reports made by the Bureau were 
prepared upon examination of the materials collected by it. The High Court 
itself has noticed that what is not available is the records relating to the 
procedure adopted in regard to the appointment of paper setters. It may be 
true that such records could be destroyed only after a period of five years but 
it has not been pointed out by the State as to how by reason of the non-
availability thereof, it became difficult for the authorities to arrive at the 
correct facts. We have not been informed that connecting materials were 
also destroyed. It has been noticed by the High Court that all relevant 
information were available and submitted to the court. It cannot, therefore, 
be said that a fair investigation into the whole affair was an impossible task 
or despite availability of all such records a thorough investigation had been 
made so as to arrive at a satisfaction that the entire selection process suffered 
from a large scale fraud. It was also not been found that all appointments 
were made on extraneous considerations including monetary consideration. If fraud in the selection process was established, the State should not 
have offered to hold a re-selection. Seniority of those who were re-selected 
ordinarily could not have been restored in their favour. Such an offer was 
evidently made as the State was not sure about the involvement of a large 
number of employees. A distinction moreoever exists between a proven case of mass 
cheating for a board examination and an unproven imputed charge of 
corruption where the appointment of a civil servant is involved. In Bihar School Examination Board v. Subhash Chandra Sinha and 
Others [(1970) 1 SCC 648], the court came to a finding that the high 
percentage of marks obtained by the candidates who appeared at the 
selection of the centre in question did give rise to a suspicion that unfair 
means had been practised and the Board was justified in investigating the 
case. While the High Court held that despite the same, the principles of 
natural justice was required to be complied with; this Court noticed the 
reports of the experts and came to the conclusion that the results thereof 
speaks for themselves. It was noticed that whereas in other centers the 
average of successful candidates was 50%, in the center in question, the 
percentage of passing in different papers were unusually high ranging from 
70% to 100%. In that view of the matter, this Court held: Such is not the case here. In Anamica Mishra and Others v. U.P. Public Service Commission, 
Allahabad and Others [1990 (Supp) SCC 692], an error was found out at the 
stage of calling candidates for interview. This Court opined that as no defect 
was pointed out in regard to the written examination and the sole objection 
was confined to the exclusion of a group of successful candidates in 
interview there was no justification for cancelling the written part of the 
recruitment examination and the situation could have been appropriately met 
by setting aside the recruitment and asking for fresh interview of all eligible 
candidates on the basis of the written examination. Yet again in S.P. Biswas and Others v. State Bank of India [1991 
Supp (2) SCC 354], the court refused to interfere with the result of the 
examination as it was shown that there had been neither any mass copying 
nor the final result was shown to have been influenced by the unfair means 
by any candidate. In those cases also tainted cases were separated from the non-tainted 
cases. Only, thus, in the event it is found to be an impossible or highly 
improbable, en masse orders of termination could have been issued. Both the State Government as also the High Court in that view of the 
matter should have made all endeavours to segregate the tainted from the 
non-tainted candidates. We may, at this stage, notice that the following cases would fall in the 
different categories which are enumerated hereinbelow: (c) O. Chakradhar (supra) wherein appointments had been 
made without type-writing tests and other procedures of 
selection having not been followed. It is now well-settled that a decision is an authority for what it decides 
and not what can logically be deduced therefrom. It is also well settled that 
a ratio of case must be understood having regard to the fact situation 
obtaining therein. [See P.S. Sathappan (Dead) By LRs. v. Andhra Bank Ltd. 
and Others (2004) 11 SCC 672] M.P. Gopalakrishnan Nair v. State of 
Kerala, ( 2005) 11 SCC 45 and Haryana State Coop. Land Development 
Bank v. Neelam , (2005) 5 SCC 91]

	In Benny T.D. and Others v. Registrar of Cooperative Societies and 
Another [(1998) 5 SCC 269], this Court repelled a contention raised therein 
that in view of the findings of the Public Inquiry Commission that there has 
been tampering of marks in respect of several candidates and as such there 
has been no fair and objective selection, public interest demanded annulment 
of the entire selection. This Court held that the same could not be done as 
the same would tantamount to gross violation of principles of natural justice 
which cannot be brushed aside on the ground that public interest demands 
annulment of the selection. Yet again in Onkar Lal Bajaj and Others v. Union of India and 
Another [(2003) 2 SCC 673], this Court while dealing with a case of en 
masse cancellation of the licences granted to the LPG Distributors as a result 
whereof unequals were said to have been clubbed by reason of arbitrary 
exercise of executive power, the same was held to be impermissible stating: It was further held: This Court further observed: [See also Ashok Lenka v. Rishi Dikshit & Ors. , 2006 (4) SCALE 519, 
paragraphs 42-50]

 	The High Court, therefore, cannot be said to be right in applying the 
principle of mass cheating cases in the instant case. Contention of Mr. Dwivedi, as noticed hereinbefore, centers around 
condemnation of selection and not of the candidate. But, when the services 
of the employees are terminated inter alia on the ground that they might have 
aided and abated corruption and, thus, either for the sake of probity in 
governance or in public interest their services should be terminated; the 
court must satisfy itself that conditions therefor exist. The court while 
setting aside a selection may require the State to establish that the process 
was so tainted that the entire selection process is liable to be cancelled. We, 
however, do not agree with the submission of Mr. Dhavan that the decision 
of the Commission was collegiate in nature as it is well known that one of 
the members of the Commission was biased, other members could also be 
influenced by him. [See Ajay Hasia and Others v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi 
and Others , (1981) 1 SCC 722]

 	In a case of this nature, thus, the question which requires serious 
consideration is as to whether due to misdeed of some candidates, honest 
and meritorious candidates should also suffer. It is not in dispute that the State itself appointed a Screening 
Committee by an order dated 20th July, 2004 in the following terms: The subject reference before the Committee was: The Screening Committee found the following two selections as 
vitiated: The functions of the Screening Committee in terms of the order of 
reference were as under: We are not unmindful of the controversy that the said Committee did 
not go into the question of illegality in the selection of the Civil Services 
Examinations or Judicial Examinations. It might or might not have; but we 
are referring to the said report not only to place on record that such a 
Committee was constituted inter alia for the purpose of implementing the 
order of Punjab and Haryana High Court passed in CWP No. 77/02 but also 
for the purpose that even according to the State sifting of evidence by an 
independent body was possible. The Committee, as noticed hereinbefore, 
was furthermore required to determine the question as to whether illegalities 
and irregularities of such a magnitude had been committed or not. It further 
appears from the report that the Screening Committee visited the office of 
the Commission. It noticed that the Vigilance Bureau did not go into the 
issue of role of experts and did not produce any concrete evidence before the 
Committee in regard to any other illegality committed by the experts. It 
although noticed the basis for the Vigilance Bureau to arrive at certain 
inferences that the selection process had become tainted, but despite the 
same went into various facts including similarity of marks given at the 
interview despite the amendments made by the Commission vide a 
resolution dated 14.3.1995 and other relevant factors. The Committee opined: Another factor which merits consideration is as to whether even if the 
statements of approver and other witnesses are taken to be correct, the 
selection made in the year 1998 could be said to be so tainted so as to vitiate 
the entire selection process. Jagaman Singh merely stated that only in 1999 
Shri Sidhu upon taking him into confidence disclosed that he had some 
surplus amount with him. It is stated before us that he has not implicated 
any candidate for the year 1998-99 by name. Some of the statements made 
by him are said to be with regard to the recovery part and not in regard to the 
validity or otherwise of the examination and other selection processes. It 
was, therefore, necessary to establish that the examinations held in 1998 
were also tainted. Some evidence in that behalf should have been brought 
on record to establish the necessary tint. It is not in dispute that in respect of the services where selections were 
made on the basis of the interview, the same was conducted by the Chairman 
and two other members. On each subject one expert was also appointed. 
We place on record that so far as the Judicial Officers are concerned the 
expert was a sitting High Court Judge and, thus, it is not expected that any 
irregularity far less illegality would be committed in the matter of allotment 
of marks at the interview. In any event, it was necessary to arrive at such a 
finding. We may notice Rule 17 (a) (iii) of the Rules framed by the 
Commission which reads as under: No breach of Rule 17 (a) (iii) as such has been pointed out either 
before the High Court or before us. Thus, the possibility of the Chairman 
and the Members of the Commission to deliberate on the performance of the 
candidates with each other and general discussion with the expert which 
might have led to grant to similar marks cannot be wholly ruled out. 
Suspicion is no substitution of proof. There may be some cases where such 
marks had been given for extraneous considerations, but only because there 
was such a possibility, the same by itself without analyzing more may not be 
a ground for arriving at the conclusion that the entire selection process was 
vitiated. Apart from viva voce, other marks remained the same. The 
Officers had passed other departmental examinations and so far as 
performance of their duties is concerned presumably there had been no 
complaint. We may, furthermore, at this stage take note of the fact that so far as 
the entries in the registers are concerned the same are governed by Rule 8 of 
the 1976 Rules, in terms whereof the following registers are required to be 
maintained: We may at the outset notice that no reason as to why copies of the 
vigilance report could not have been made available to the learned advocates 
appearing for the judicial officers. At least, they could have been given 
inspection thereof. From the records produced before us it appears that the Advocate 
General, Punjab by a letter dated 23.5.2002 handed over 12 envelops which 
are as under: Envelop No. 3- Answer Sheets of Maninder Singh 
PCS(J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 16) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 26) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 37) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 27) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 29) 

Envelop No. 4  Answer Sheets of Amol Gill PCS 
(J) a)	 English (Pages 1 to 10) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 9) f)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 13) g)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 14) h)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 10) 

Envelop No. 5  Answer Sheets of Ram Saran PCS 
(J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 22) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 27) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 35) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 38) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 36) 
Envelop No. 6  Answer Sheets of Preetwinder 
Singh PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 13) b)	 Punjabi (Pages 1 to 16) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 29) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 23) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 25) 

Envelop No. 7  Answer Sheets of Mandeep Kaur 
PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 24) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 23) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 26) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 39) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 34) 
Envelop No. 8  Answer Sheets of Monika Sethi 
PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 19) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 17) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 30) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 40) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 33) 

Envelop No. 9  Answer Sheets of Navdeep Singh 
PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 20) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 26) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 28) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 32) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 29) 

Envelop No. 10 Answer Sheets of Rajinder 
Bansal PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 17) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 17) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 23) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 26) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 22) 

Envelop No. 11  Answer Sheets of Anil Kumar 
Jindal PCS (J) a)	English (Pages 1 to 11) b)	Punjabi (Pages 1 to 10) c)	Civil Law I (Pages 1 to 14) d)	Civil Law II (Pages 1 to 17) e)	Criminal Law (Pages 1 to 15) 

Envelop No. 12  Answer Sheets of Sapana 
Singhal (Dental Demonstrator) 
Pages 1 to 16." No question paper or any other document as regards the candidates for 
the year 1998 examination, therefore, was handed over by the State to the 
High Court on that date. The report of the first committee dated 30th May, 2002 is a short one. 
The said report is based on the extracts of the statements made by some of 
the persons recorded by the investigating agency and the photostat copies of 
the answer sheets of nine candidates who, amongst others, had been selected 
and appointed to the PCS(Judicial) during the period from 1999 to 2001 
along with the question papers for the relevant examinations. The materials supplied to the Committee, having regard to the fact 
that most of the officers named in the First Information Report were of 2001 
batch, cannot be held to be sufficient so as to come to the conclusion that the 
entire selection process for 1999 and 2000 was vitiated. Despite the fact that 
the selection process for the year 1998 was not the subject matter of the 
enquiry, recommendations had been made by the Committee for cancellation 
of appointment of the candidates of 1998 batch also. The Full Court 
without any basis whatsoever recommended dismissal of all the Judicial 
Officers. Only when the Additional Secretary of the Government of Punjab 
vide a letter dated 27.9.2002 which was received by the High Court on 
28.9.2002, drew its attention in that behalf, another committee was 
constituted by the then Acting Chief Justice on 10.10.2002 evidently, after 
the said matter was discussed in the Full Court. Two of the five member 
Committee were also the members of the first Committee. The second 
Committee again considered the statements of the approver and one other 
witness recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as 
also other documents placed before it and came to the opinion: (1) 
Performance of most of the selected candidates was below average and the 
marks awarded to them were disproportionate to the answers given by them. 
(The aforementioned opinion was made on the basis of some of the answer 
sheets of some of the selected candidates and those who had not been 
selected.) (2) The marks originally given to the candidates were scored off 
and unjustifiably increased obviously with a view to ensure their selection. 
(3) Another feature which was noticed that the answer sheets of some of the 
non-selected candidates were qualitatively better than some of those who 
had been selected but they had been awarded lesser marks, presumably, with 
a view to push them down. The number of the candidates of 1998 batch was not that high so as to 
render examination of each answer book of the candidates difficult. 
Having regard to the fact that none of the candidates of 1998 batch had been 
named in the First Information Report or by the witnesses, it was, to our 
mind, obligatory on the part of the High Court to bestow its attention to the 
problem more closely. Maintenance of purity of administration of justice so 
as to uphold the independence of judiciary is indisputably the sole task of the 
High Court. However, it is important to maintain purity of administration of 
justice both on the judicial side as also the administrative side. Corruption 
in the selection process and in any event illegality going to the root of the 
matter, of course, would not be tolerated. But then even applying the strict 
standard in the case of the judicial officers, whereas applying liberal 
standard in the case of others, at least certain basic norms were required to 
be followed. For the said purpose, minimal requirements of the principles of 
natural justice must be complied with. We regret to note that judicial 
officers had not been fairly treated by the High Court. They deserved better 
treatment. An authority holding an enquiry of such a nature would 
ordinarily carry out exercises to find out as to whether the selection process 
was vitiated by fraud or such illegalities which would vitiate the entire 
selection process. The Committee was dealing with charges of aiding and 
abetting corruption on the part of the judicial officers nay only some of them 
and, thus, it was necessary for it to apply its mind more seriously. The 
members of the Committee were not reevaluating the answer scripts. The 
candidates were not before them. Their abilities were not being tested. The 
learned members of the Committee should have asked unto themselves the 
right question, mainly because the issue before them was different and 
distinct from an ordinary departmental enquiry. In any event, there was 
absolutely no reason why copies of the said reports could not have been 
supplied to the appellants. Before us the said reports have been placed. We have allowed the 
learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants to inspect them. 
Some brief comments about the said reports had been made. However, we 
do not intend to delve deep into the matter, as we are of the opinion that the 
actions taken on the basis of the said reports by the High Court were not 
justified. We also fail to understand as to why two senior Judges who had 
headed the Committee should have been made part of the Bench. It was not 
a case where the doctrine of necessity was required to be invoked. It may be 
that the counsel appearing on behalf of the Judicial Officers did not object to 
the learned Judges who were members of the Committee to hear the matter. There is no quarrel with the proposition that the allegation of bias may 
be capable of waived. [See Dr. G. Sarana v. University of Lucknow and 
Others , (1976) 3 SCC 585] However, in this case, bias as regards the subject 
matter on the part of the members of the Committee who heard the writ 
petition is apparent on the face of the record. Therein this Court was 
considering a question as to whether a bias as regards a special matter would 
invalidate proceedings. What was in question therein was the justifiability 
of the constitution of selection committee and as the Appellant therein had 
voluntarily appeared before it and had taken a chance of having favourable 
recommendation from it, he was not permitted to turn around and question 
the validity of the constitution of the committee. In State of Maharashtra v. Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak and Another [(1982) 2 SCC 463], the concession of the counsel recorded by the High 
Court was incorrect. But the Appellant was not permitted to go back from 
the said concession, stating: In Ashok Kumar Yadav and Ors. etc. etc. v. State of Haryana and Ors. 
etc. etc. [(1985) Suppl. SCR 657], this Court held: The manner in which the proceedings were conducted in the High 
Court leaves much to be desired. The writ petitioners, thus, might have waived their right to raise a 
contention as regard bias on the part of the Hon'ble Judges but the same 
would not mean that this Court would ignore such a vital fact. It was clearly 
a case where the Hon'ble Judges should have recused themselves from 
hearing the matter. It was for them to remind themselves that justice is not 
only done but manifestly seen to be done. [See Centre for Public Interest 
Litigation and Another v. Union of India and another , (2005) 8 SCC 202]

 	In Pinochet, [(1999) 1 All ER 577] Lord Browne Wilkinson opined: It was further opined: It was also stated: [See also AWG Group Limited v. Morrison and Anr., 2006 (1) All ER 
967]

 	Pinochet (supra) applies in all force to the fact of the case. The aforementioned principles have been accepted and followed by 
this Court in Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Girja Shankar Pant [ 
(2001) 1 SCC 182] in the following terms: 31. Lord Brown-Wilkinson at p.136 of the report 
stated: 32. Lord Hutton also in Pinochet case observed: [See also Rupa Hurra V. Ashok Hurra , (2002) 4 SCC 388 and Krishan 
Yadav (supra)]

	It is not necessary for us, in the facts and circumstances of this case, to 
give our final views as regard the current rein in the precedent, i.e., from 
likelihood of bias to 'real danger of bias' as was observed in M.P. Special 
Police Establishment v. State of M.P. [(2004) 8 SCC 788] but we may only 
observe that if the principles of bias which have been highlighted by Mr. 
Rao for attacking the conduct of Mr. Sindhu as a Constitutional functionary 
are correct, there is no reason as to why the same principles would not apply 
to the case of judicial officers. The apprehension in the mind of judicial 
officers that inferences had been drawn on the basis of non-existent fact 
cannot be ruled out. It was in the aforementioned premise, the officers 
should have at least been given an opportunity to have a look to the reports 
on the basis whereof they had been categorized as tainted officers. We fail 
to understand if ultimately in the opinion of the High Court, the Judicial 
Offices were found to be entitled to look the said report, why the copies 
thereof were not made available to them or at least why inspection thereof 
was not given at an appropriate time so as to enable them to make their 
submissions. Curiously enough only when after the oral submissions were 
over and written submissions have been filed, although the writ petition 
belonging to other categories of services were being heard, the arguments 
advanced on behalf of the Judicial Officers were directed to be closed and 
only on the next date when the counsel had no occasion to make comments 
upon the reports, the same were read out in the Court and allowed to be 
inspected by the counsel. It may be that the Superior Judiciary always make 
endeavours to deal with the judicial officers in all seriousness it deserves; 
but then such harsh punishments may be meted out only when there are 
sufficient materials on record so as to enable it to satisfy itself upon adopting 
a fair procedure. We have no hesitation to observe that the Judicial Officers 
were unfairly treated by the High Court. The High Court was probably enthralled by the media reports that two 
of the wards of its sitting Judges obtained appointment wrongly. It is, 
however, stated at the Bar that they were toppers of the Batch and in the 
First Information Reports, their names had not been mentioned. Only 
because wards of its sitting Judges obtained employment, the same by itself 
would not give rise to a presumption that everything was not well in the 
selection making process. We, having regard to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, 
are of the opinion that it is necessary to direct consideration of the matters 
afresh. We have not been apprised whether in the criminal cases any further 
material had been gathered so as to implicate the appellants before us. We were, however, told that some new appointments have been made, 
the effect whereof, would certainly be the subject to the decision of this case. 
We, however, do not intend to set aside the said appointments at this stage. 
We also do not intend to disturb the status quo. We must, however, express our satisfaction that no candidate for the 
year 2001 has been appointed. It is one thing to say that having regard to the 
nature of selection process, no person is appointed from the select list as no 
person has right to be appointed only because his name appears in the select 
list, but, in our opinion, a different standard must be adopted for terminating 
the services of the officers who had completed about three years of service. 
Some of them, as noticed hereinbefore, passed departmental tests. Some 
have been given higher responsibilities. They had completed the period of 
probation and some were nearing the completion thereof. They presumably 
had been working to the satisfaction of the authorities concerned. The impugned judgment as also the orders of the State Government 
and the High Court are, thus, liable to be set aside and directions are issued. 
Although the impugned judgments cannot be sustained, we are of the 
opinion that the interest of justice would be subserved if the matters are 
remitted to the High Court for consideration of the matters afresh. However, 
with a view to segregate between the tainted with non-tainted and that in the 
interest of justice the High Court should be requested to constitute two 
independent scrutiny committees  one relating to the executive officers and 
the other relating to the judicial officers. We would, furthermore, request the High Court to consider the 
desirability of delineating the area which would fall for consideration by 
such Committees within a time frame. Copies of such reports of the 
Committees shall be supplied to the learned counsel for the petitioners 
and/or at least they should be given inspection thereof. The parties shall be 
given opportunity to inspect any document including the answer sheets etc. 
if an application, in that behalf is filed. Such inspection shall, however, be 
permitted to be made only in presence of an officer of the court. The 
Appellants shall be given two weeks time only for submitting their 
objections to such reports and their comments, if any, on any material 
whereupon the High Court places reliance from the date of supply of copies 
or inspection is given. Having regard to the fact that the appellants are out of 
job for a long time, we would request the High Court to consider the 
desirability disposing of the matter as expeditious as possible and preferably 
within the period of three months from the date of receipt of the copy of this 
order. Before parting with the case, however, we may observe that it is 
expected that the State having regard to the magnitude of the matter shall 
leave no stone unturned to bring the guilty to book. It is the duty of the State 
to unearth the scam and spare no officer howsoever high he may be. We 
expect the State to make a thorough investigation into the matter. These 
appeals are allowed to the aforementioned extent and with the directions and 
observations made hereinbefore. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no 
order as to costs.