PER YOGESH KUMAR, U.S. JM: 2. The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee vehemently submitted that the

solitary issue involved in the present Appeal is regarding the addition

of Rs. 1,05,62,000/- being part of sale consideration of shares u/s 68

of the Act. The Ld. Counsel further submitted that the present appeal

is squarely covered by the order of the Co-ordinate Bench of the

Tribunal in the case of the Assessee's son Vipin Jain in ITA No.

909/Del/2019 (A.Y 2015-16), wherein the Tribunal vide order dated

16/03/2020,allowed the Appeal of the Assessee which has been 2 ITA No. 4649/Del/2024 Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

confirmed by the Hon'ble High Court in ITA No. 95/2021 and other

connected matters, accordingly, the Ld. Assessee's Representative

sought for allowing the Appeal. 3. Per contra, though the Ld. Departmental Representative relied

on the orders of the lower authorities and sought for dismissal of the

Appeal. However, could not controvert the submission of the Ld.

Assessee's Representative or produce any contrary judicial precedent

decided against the Assessee. 4. We have heard both the parties and perused the material

available on record. We have also gone through the order of the Co- ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Vipin Jain in ITA No.

909/Del/2019, which was decided in favour of the Assessee vide

order dated 16/03/2020, wherein the script of ALPS Motor Finance

Ltd. was involved, the same script is also involved in the present

case. The Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Vipin

Jain (supra), while allowing the Appeal held as under:- Entirely based or this statement, the assessee's Long term capital gain
has been disbelieved and added under section 68 of the Act. Such a
statement first of all, has no direct or indirect connection with the
assessee nor there is any reference that assessee was any kind of
beneficiary of accommodation entry by any entry operator. So much so,
there is no reference to the scrip namely Alps Motors Finance Limited.
Otherwise also, such a statement cannot be the sole basis for
disbelieving the transaction of the assessee for the reason that neither
any cross examination has been allowed by the department nor there is
any conclusive averment that all the trade of the scrip of Alps Motors
Finance Limited was manipulated for bogus long term capital gain,
There is no information or material on record that trading of the said
scrip was ever banned by the SEBI. A general modus operandi as to
how bogus entry of long term capital gain is provided by entry
providers, sans any specific enquiry or material or information on
record to implicate assessee cannot be the basis for disbelieving the
transaction backed by all documents. AO has to conduct some kind
inquiry to find out that transaction is sham or is colourable device. Here
it is not the case that transaction of the assessee, both in case of
purchase and sale are effected by any bogus entities controlled by any
entry operator; or brokers have failed to maintain KYC norms; or there
is any statement that entities involved in price movement or scrip
operator or promoters of listed company have accepted their role in
giving bogus entry nor there is any probe or material relating to bank
account of entities involved that purchase or sale by assessee has been
done through cash deposits; or there is any order from SEBI/BSE
where genuineness of the scrip has been doubted. When no such
inquiry or material has been found or gathered that assessee is
beneficiary or was involved in any such scam of accommodation entry,
then it is very difficult to discard the assessee's explanation and
documents. 13. In addition, in the other statement reproduced i.e. of Anil Khemka,
there is no reference to the appellant assessee's transaction or scrip
namely Alps Motors Finance Limited. 14. Ld. AR further submitted that, here, in this case, purchase of shares
was made in the Financial Year 2012-13 relevant to assessment year
2013-14 and is evidenced by the cash abstract and other related
documents. Thus, possession of the share is not in doubt at all, because
same is also reflected in DEMAT account maintained with DP and 5 ITA No. 4649/Del/2024 Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

Vijaya Bank. Not only that, the sale of shares is also evidenced from
transaction undertaken through SEBI registered Broker and after the
sale of shares, the net receipts have been credited to the assessee's
bank account. Hence, the nature of the transactions clearly purchase
and sale of shares and the source of the credit, from the material facts
on record are quite evident that it is from the sale of shares. Once, no
material information has been brought on record to convert these
transactions then it cannot be held that the sale proceeds of the shares
as unexplained cash credit to be added under deeming provisions of
section 68. Further, there is no finding or any whisper in the impugned
orders that some unaccounted money has been routed through some
accommodation entry provider or getting the bogus long-term capital
gain. 15 In addition, one very important fact brought on record by the Ld AR
is that the very same scrip was subject matter adjudication in the case
of Shri Vìshal Kumar Vijay vs ITO ITA No 4714/Del/2018, Order dated
28.11.2018 and in the case of Akita Vijay vs ITAT ITA
No.5025/Del/2018 dated 08.02.2019 and the Hon'ble tribunal after
examining the transaction statement of the stock broker, Contract Note
for sale of shares, transaction statement of the DEMAT Account and
other documentary evidences had held that the transaction was
genuine. 16. On the other hand, ld. DR strongly relied upon the order of the
Assessing Officer and submitted that here in this case the facts and
circumstances clearly indicates that assessee has taken an
accommodation entry for bogus Long Term Capital Gain for which all
paper work has been done like in all such bogus entries. It is a solitary
transaction of the shares and the financial credibility of Alps Motor
Finance Ltd clearly indicates the fact that this company did not had
worth to justify such a higher share price, which means that the price
were manipulated in the stock exchange only to provide accommodation
entry for bogus Long Term Capital Gains / Loss. In support, he strongly
relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
UditKalra v/s. ITO. and decision of Tribunal in the case of UditKalra vs.
ITO, ITA No.6717/Del/201 7. He further relied upon the judgment of
ITAT Delhi 'SMC' Bench in the case of AnipRastogi and AnjuRastogi in
ITA No.3809 /Del/2018 and 3801/Del/2018. Relying on these
Judgments, he submitted that even the Hon'ble High Court have
frowned upon such bogus Long Term Capital Gain. 17. After considering the entire gamut of facts and material on record
and the submissions made by the parties, one important fact which
emerges from the record is that, the shares were purchased by the
assessee in the Assessment Year 2012-13 for sum of Rs.1,25,000/-
which has been sold in the impugned assessment order for
Rs.3,20,57,034/- and Long Term Capital Gain of Rs.3,18,92,584/- has
been declared which has been disallowed by the Assessing Officer and
has been taxed u/s.68. This inter alia shows that the purchases made 6 ITA No. 4649/Del/2024 Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

in the earlier years regarding shares have not been disputed at all, only
Net LTCG has been added. Major part of the discussion in the
assessment order is show how the Director of Instigation Calcutta
carried out countrywide investigation wherein the modus operandi were
providing Long Term Capital Gain / Short Term Capital Loss were
unearthed and Assessing Officer has given sample of cash trail and
how the mechanism works which has been illustrated by him in detail.
He has given a master table and cash trail showing name of 18 broker
companies/persons and concern jamakharchi companies and also
name of various persons who were involved as share broker, promoter,
beneficiaries or otherwise who were indulged in malpractices and
whose case search and survey were carried out and submissions were
recorded. From the bare perusal of these exhaustive list and
information, it is seen that none of the shareholders or jamakharchi
companies were involved in scrips of Alps Motors Finance Ltd. or
nowhere the assessee's transaction or the name of assessee's broker or
assessee being beneficiary has been mentioned. From the statement of
the assessee also, nothing adverse can be inferred except that he has
bought the shares from one Mr Vishal Yadav who met him in some
marriage ceremony from whom assessee had made the purchases and
assessee had sold the shares on the advice of brokers M/s Century
Finvest Pvt. Ltd. Further, it has been mentioned that assessee had
purchased 62800 equity shares for sum of Rs.1,25,600/- in off-market
transaction and assessee requested the depositor for materialization of
shares on 17.01.2014 and these shares were credited to his demat
account with Vjaya Bank on 10.02.2014 thereafter shares have been
sold on two lots on two different prices, one of 17500 shares on
30.07.2014, Rs.430per shares and balance of 45300 shares between
August 2014 to October 2014 at a market price ranging from Rs.61.05
to Rs.53.10 through registered stock broker, M/s Century Finvest Pvt.
Ltd. The shares have been sold to recognized stock exchange BSE on
quoted price on the date and thereafter the money has been credited
into the account of the assessee. 18. Further, the Assessing Officer has strongly referred to two
statements, one of Mr. BikashSurekha and other of Mr. Anil Khemkha.
Though Mr. BikashSurekha have accepted that they were used to
provide accommodation entry for bogus Long Term Capital Gain, but
nowhere he has said that they have provided accommodation entries in
Alps Motor Finance Ltd. Further in the statement of Anil Kumar
Khemkha also and in the list of various jamakharchi companies
wherein the name of Alps Motors Finance Ltd. has not been figured.
Further, in reply to question no. 18, Mr. Anil Kumar Khemkha mentions
the list of scrips, and stated that, he has provided accommodation entry
but nowhere the name of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. is appearing in his
statement. Once again from the bare perusal of the list captioned as
Annexure-B annexed alongwith the statement which contains names of
106 companies are mentioned, wherein he has said that he was
providing accommodation entry through various scrips, it is seen that, 7 ITA No. 4649/Del/2024 Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

scrip of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. is not appearing and nowhere it has
surfaced that scrip was used for providing accommodation entry. We
are unable to appreciate as how these statements have any relevance
on transaction or there is something to implicate assessee that he was
involved in accommodation entry fur taking bogus Long Term Capital
Gain. 19. Another important factor here in this case is that, the ld. counsel
has placed various orders of SEBI which is a regulatory authority for
smooth functioning or monitoring of stock exchange to point out that at
no point of time, the trading of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. was suspended
or there was any finding that the prices of the Alps Motor Finance Ltd.
were rigged or there was any kind of manipulation. In the present case,
the shares have been transacted at a market price quoted on the date
of transaction in the Stock exchange and on screen based trading, and
therefore, to infer that the price have been rigged in violation of SEBI
rules or guidelines may not be correct. There has to be some iota of
evidence or incriminating material that, either Alps Motors Finance Ltd.
was suspended or trading of its shares were banned by the SEBI for
manipulating or rigging of the share price in the stock exchange or any
action has been taken by the SEBI against the said company or against
the brokers. Simply because the prices have risen in a short span of
two years, that does not mean there is some kind of manipulation
unless some authority have found so or there is any material or inquiry
from it has been unearthed that the price of scrip of Alps Motor Finance
Ltd. was manipulated for purpose of providing accommodation entry.
Here in this case, there is neither any direct or indirect evidence made
through inquiry from assessee's broker or from Directors of Alps Moto
Finance Ltd. or otherwise. 20. One of the point harped upon by the Revenue is that, Mr.
RikashSurekha has accepted in the statements reproduced in the
assessment order that two entities, namely, Durai Marketing and
RochakVinay Private Lid. who have purchased the shares of Alps Motor
Pvt. Ltd. were run by him and were used to provide accommodation
entry for bogus long Term Capital Gain, First of all, such statement has
no direct or indirect connection with the assessee or the transaction of
shares that these two companies have purchased the shares of Alps
Motor Finance Ltd. from, assessee; nor there is any reference that
assessee was beneficiary of any kind of accommodation entry by the
said entry operator. Nowhere there is any reference of the scrip of Alps
Motor Finance Ltd. in his statement. To draw any adverse inference
against the assessee based on such statement would be wholly
erroneous, because, firstly, assessee has not been implicated in such
statement; and secondly, if the said statement is the sole basis for
disbelieving the transaction, then on the principle of natural justice,
cross examination has to be provided to the assessee, In any case,
there is no conclusive averment that all the trading of scrip of Alps
Motor Finance Ltd. was manipulated for bogus Long Term Capital Gain. Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

 Prima facie there has to be some kind of information or material on
 record that the trading of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. was ever banned by
 SEBI. 21. A general modus operanedi cannot be resorted to hold in all such
 cases that assessee must have entered into bogus Long Term Capital
 Gain provided by any entry provider. At best it could be a good
 ground for making prima facie inquiry to scrutinize the transaction
 and then draw any inference But sans any inquiry or investigation or
 material on record to implicate the assessee, cannot be the basis for
 disbelieving the transaction. There has to at least some kind of prima
 facie inquiry by the Assessing Officer or some information or material
 has been gathered or found in some inquiry or investigation to
 indicate that transaction undertaken by the assessee is sham or is a
 colourable device, If the shares are recorded in the books and are
 appearing in physical form and then 19 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 have
 been dematerialized and purchase of such shares have not been
 doubted, then sale of the same shares in Stock Exchange at a quoted
 price cannot be held to be unexplained cash credit within the meaning
 of Section 68, Once a Capital asset has been acquired, reflected in the
 accounts of the assessee and has been sold, for which necessary
 evidences have been filed and there is no adverse material or
 information or inquiry to prove that nature and source of credit as
 explained by the assessee is false, no adverse inference cannot be
 drawn and the evidences and explanation given by the assessee
 cannot be discredited. We again reiterate that though the
 accommodation entry of bogus Long Term Capital Gain is a menace
 which has been unearthed through investigation but general
 perception and general modus operandi sans any evidence or
 material or any kind of prima facie inquiry cannot render the
 transaction as sham bogus. In such cases, even if preponderance of
 probability is taken into consideration, then also the material and
 evidence adduced by the assessee have to rebutted by some kind of
 tangible material coming on record. Otherwise the evidences and
 explanation of the assessee cannot be discredited. Thus, on the facts
 and circumstances of the case as well as material available on
 record, we do not find any reason to sustain the addition made by the
 Assessing Officer. Accordingly, the said addition made u/s.68 and
 consequently u/s 69C is deleted. Accordingly, Assessee's claim for
 exemption u/s. 10 on Long Term Capital Gain is allowed. 22. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 5. The above order of the Tribunal in the case of Vipin Jain (supra)

was challenged by the Revenue before the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High

Court and the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi upheld the order of the 9 ITA No. 4649/Del/2024 Jainmati Jain Vs. ITO

Tribunal vide Judgment dated 12/03/2024 in ITA No. 95/2022 and

another connected matters in following manners:- KarunaGarg [2022 SCC OnLine Del 4079]. 18. In view of the aforesaid, we find that the present appeals do not
 raise any substantial question of law. 19. Consequently, we do not find any reason to interfere with the
 decision of the ITAT and thus, the appeals stand dismissed. Pending
 application(s), if any, are also disposed of." 9. Respectfully following the aforesaid decision of ITAT and Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court, we are inclined to allow the grounds taken by the
 assessee. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. 10. In the result, the Appeal filed by the Assessee is allowed." 6. In view of the above, by respectfully following the Judgment of

Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of Vipin Jain (supra), we allow

the Grounds of Appeal of the Assessee. 7. In the result, Appeal of the Assessee is allowed.