24.07.2024

 Heard Mr. U. U. Khan, learned counsel for the petitioners. Also heard Mr. P.
Borthakur, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State respondent. This is an application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 for grant of bail to the present accused/petitioners, who have
been arrested in connection with Laharighat P.S. Case No. 299/2023, under Sections 120(B) / 419 / 420 / 466 / 467 / 468 / 471 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 66C / 66D of the I.T. Act. It is submitted by Mr. Khan, learned counsel for the petitioners, that the
present accused/petitioners are innocent and they are no way connected in the
alleged offence. He further submitted that the accused/petitioners are behind
the bar for last 48 days from the date of shown arrest and thus, the I.O. got
sufficient time for their custodial interrogation. Further he submitted that in the
other 2 (two) cases also, they have already been granted bail by the co-ordinate
Bench of this Court considering that Section 467 IPC do not attract against the
present petitioners. However, they are ready and willing to co-operate with the
I.O. in the further investigation of this case if they are granted with the privilege
of bail. In this context, Mr. Borthakur, learned Additional Public Prosecutor, has
submitted that the modus operandi of the present accused/petitioners is that
they created some fake SIM Card, Aadhar Card and KYC etc. and accordingly
 Page No.# 3/4

obtained the loan from the bank affixing photograph of some fake person and
after collection of the loan amount, they even used to pay installment and
thereafter they avoid payment of the installment and thus committed serious
financial fraud. Further he submitted that the I.O. also collected documents
from the bank authority wherefrom it is seen that they used all those fake
Aadhar Card, SIM Card and KYC etc. to obtain the loan from the bank in the
name of some fake person and thus, they committed a serious case of financial
fraud. Further he submitted that the case is still under investigation and
custodial interrogation of the present accused/petitioner may be necessary to
unearth some more facts of this case and accordingly, he raised objection and
submitted that it is not at all a fit case to extend the privilege of bail to the
present accused/petitioners. After hearing the submissions made by the learned counsels for both
sides, I have also perused the Case Diary and it is seen that the I.O. has
collected sufficient incriminating materials against the present
accused/petitioners and also collected sufficient documents during the
investigation of the case. However, the investigation is still under progress and
considering the nature and seriousness of the allegation, I find that custodial
interrogation of the present petitioners may be necessary for the interest of
investigation. More so, it cannot be out rightly said that prima facie there is no
material to attract Section 467 of the Indian Penal Code. In view of above and also considering the entire aspects of the case, I find
it not a fit case to extend the privilege of bail to the present accused/petitioners
and accordingly, the same stands rejected. Page No.# 4/4

 In terms of above, this bail application stands disposed of. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant