affidavit in reply thereto was filed by the petitioner on 24.09.2025, which were

taken on record. On 27.11.2025, this Court had raised certain queries/issues. It

is submitted that no accused arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in the

present proceedings has been granted bail to date. Enforcement Directorate has

arrested 3 persons namely Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy, Shri Santi Prasad Sinha

and Shri Jiban Krishna Saha. None of the accused mentioned have been granted

bail till date by the Special Court, PMLA. Further, the total number of accused in

this case are 109 out of which 90 are juridical entities related to Prasanna Kumar

Roy. There was no scope of arrest of Juridical entities. Further, the remaining

individuals were not arrested for various reasons some of them like Shri Ashok

Kumar Saha and Shri Kalyanmoy Ganguly were already under Judicial Custody

in the CBI Case and the requirements for custodial interrogation was not felt in 10 peculiar facts and circumstances. Some accused persons like Shri Samarjit

Acharya were found to be assisting in the processes. Further, the remaining

accused have been granted bail in consonance with Section 88 of CrPC following

the judgement of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Tarsem Lal (2024 INSC 434 in

Criminal Appeal No.2608 of 2024 dated 16.05.2024). It is worth noting that

Prosecution complaint of ED was filed on 18.04.2024 and the Tarsem Lal

Judgment was pronounced by Hon'ble Supreme court on 16.05.2024. Post the

pronouncement of Judgement, there was no scope of arrest of the arraigned

accused persons. Santi Prasad Sinha was one of the main conspirator of this

recruitment scam as he was the convenor of the Special five member committee

formulated to expedite various recruitment processes conducted by WBCSSC.

Shri SP Sinha enjoyed the power of the chairman of WBCSSC as he was a close

associate of the then MIC Shri Partha Chatterjee; and SP Sinha used to control

every aspect of the recruitment process and also used to get the list of candidates

recommended by the MIC through Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy, who used to visit

SP Sinha regularly even in the office of WBCSSC. Furthermore, SP Sinha used to

increase or decrease the vacancy as per need and used to instruct Shri

Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the then President of West Bengal Board of Secondary

Education (WBBSE) to give the appointment letters against the recommendation

letters provided by the WBCSSC. Initially Shri SP Sinha used to give instructions

verbally to his subordinates, but since 2019 SP Sinha started giving instructions 11 through the mail via a man named Pradip Singh @ Chhotu who used to work for

Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy; the main middleman who used to collect money from

the candidates directly/indirectly and distribute the same to various officials and

Pradeep Singh, the employee of Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy, used to send details

of candidates through mail and Whatsapp and accordingly recommendation

letters of the said candidates were issued based on which appointment letters

were issued by WBBSE. During his statement recorded under section 50 of the

PMLA, SP Sinha stated that he knew Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy by his other

name i.e., Rakesh and he met him first time when he was Secretary in WBBSE in

the year 2011. Further, SP Sinha was a close associate of the then MIC Shri

Partha Chatterjee he was the main person involved in issuance of

recommendation letters of the undeserving candidates based on which

appointment letters were issued by WBBSE and subsequently undeserving

candidates were appointed to the post of Assistant Teachers. The fraudulent

scheme had been initiated from the very outset, when a five-member Special

Committee was constituted and he was inexplicably appointed as its Convenor.

His appointment was made without any prior interview, selection process, or

adherence to established procedural formalities. It is evident that he was placed

in this position solely at the discretion of the then MIC, with the mala fide

intention of facilitating the commission of fraud. He was one of the starting

points from where the fraud started. He was the topmost boss of the said 12 organisation and fraud would not have been possible without him. Furthermore,

there exist numerous documented instances in which recommendation letters

were issued to candidates who were clearly undeserving, despite the fact that

these individuals neither appeared for nor qualified in the OMR-based written

examination, the first phase of the selection process. These actions represent a

blatant circumvention of the established rules. Importantly, the issuance of all

such recommendation letters was done on his instructions, indicating a

deliberate manipulation of the selection mechanism. This pattern of conduct not

only undermined the integrity of the recruitment process but also facilitated the

inclusion of unqualified candidates in subsequent phases, thereby compromising

the credibility and fairness of the entire selection procedure. Furthermore, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has vide its judgement dated 03.04.2025 in SLP (Civil)

No. 9586 of 2024 in the matter of State of West Bengal Vs. Baishakhi

Bhattacharyya (Chatterjee) and others cancelled the appointments of more than

25,000 candidates as teachers and staff recruited by West Bengal SSC due to

irregularities found in the recruitment process citing remarks that the

manipulations, frauds and subsequent cover-up were on a large scale, such that

the credibility and legitimacy of the selection process were "denuded." and this

scale and depth of irregularity meant that "the entire selection process has been

vitiated and tainted beyond resolution." During his statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, SP Sinha himself stated that he knew Shri Prasanna 13 Kumar Roy by his other name i.e., Rakesh and he met him first time when he

was Secretary in WBBSE in the year 2011. Furthermore, SP Sinha also stated

that he had purchased land parcels from Shri Amit Mondal registered in his

name and in the name of his wife Smt. Debasri Sinha and the funds were

sourced from his personal savings and the payments were done through banking

channels for the said purchase of land parcels. Upon enquiry of cash deposits

done in the said bank accounts maintained in his name and in the name of his

wife he falsely claimed it to be sourced from agricultural income, however upon

enquiry he did not show the said income in his Income Tax Returns.

Furthermore, statement of Shri Amit Mondal @ Amit Kumar Mondal was

recorded under section 50 of the PMLA, wherein it is revealed that he sold land

parcels vide two deeds to Shri Santi Prasad Sinha; and he had received

consideration amount mostly in cash and rest of the amount through banking

channels. It is further submitted that he had also acquired benami property in

the name of Ms. Aparupa Mitra. In this view statement of Ms. Aparupa Mitra was

recorded under section 50 of PMLA, wherein it is revealed that she is close friend

of Mrs. Debasri Sinha, who is wife of Santi Prasad Sinha and in the year 2019,

Shri S.P. Sinha bought a flat apartment in her name and had paid her Rs. 23

Lakhs in cash and asked her to deposit in her account to purchase the same;

that an advance payment of Rs. 1 Lakhs was already paid by Shri SP Sinha to

the seller; that she was further given Rs. 3.20 lakhs in cash which were utilized 14 towards paying stamp duty, registration charges, etc; although the said flat is in

her name, the real owner is Shri S.P. Sinha. She also stated that the CBI

authorities had seized cash amount of Rs. 50 lakhs from the said flat which

belongs to Shri S.P. Sinha. Furthermore. Statement of Md. Meezanuddin was

recorded under section 50 of the PMLA. wherein it is revealed that he was/is

partner with Mrs. Debasri Sinha in a beauty Parlour/Saloon and works as

hairdresser; that he started running a salon in partnership with Mrs. Debasri

Sinha in her flat and during the same period, Mrs. Debasri Sinha gave him a

locked bag to keep it; that during the search proceedings by CBI, they seized the

said bag which contained jewelleries worth Rs. 60 lakhs Upon asking about the

jewellery and cash seized by CBI authorities from his associates Md.

Meezanuddin and Aparupa Mitra, SP Sinha denied having any knowledge of cash

kept with Aparupa Mitra whereas he claimed the jewellery to be purchased from

his personal savings however, he couldn't produce any documentary evidence for

the same. Furthermore, the proceeds of crime acquired by SP Sinha in the form

of land parcels and flat were attached by ED vide PAO No. 06/2024 dated

10.04.2024, and the same was confirmed by learned Adjudicating Authority vide

its order dated 18.09.2024. Under PMLA, 2002 there was no specific provision for

requesting sanction of Public servants akin to Prevention of Corruption Act .

PMLA, being a special statute does not require sanction, as Section 71 of PMLA,

2002 gives an overriding effect. Furthermore, prosecution complaint in the 15 instant matter was filed on 18.04.2024. However, on 06.11.2024 the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Criminal Appeal No. 4314-4316 of 2024 in the case of ED vs.

Bibhu Prasad Acharya and Others held that Section 197(1) of the CrPC is

applicable to a prosecution complaint filed under Section 44(1) (b) of PMLA. In

view of the said judgement, out of abundant caution, without prejudice to the

fact that even though sanction may have been obtained in the scheduled offence

by Central Bureau of Investigation which is broad enough to subsume the PMLA

proceedings, a fresh sanction is sought from the competent authority for

prosecuting the public servant (s) for the commission of offence of money

laundering. Santi Prasad Sinha was the main conspirator of this recruitment

scam as he was the convenor of the Special five member committee formulated to

expedite various recruitment processes conducted by WBCSSC. Shri SP Sinha

enjoyed the power of the chairman of WBCSSC as he was a close associate of the

then MIC Shri Partha Chatterjee; and SP Sinha used to control every aspect of

the recruitment process and also used to get the list of candidates recommended

by the MIC through Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy, who used to visit SP Sinha

regularly even in the office of WBCSSC. Furthermore, SP Sinha used to increase

or decrease the vacancy as per his discretion and used to instruct Shri

Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the then President of West Bengal Board of Secondary

Education (WBBSE) to give the appointment letters against the recommendation

letters provided by the WBCSSC. Initially, Shri SP Sinha gave instructions 16 verbally to his subordinates, but from 2019 he began giving instructions through

e-mail via Pradip Singh @ Chhotu, an employee of Shri Prasanna Kumar Roy.

Prasanna Kumar Roy acted as the main middleman who collected money from

candidates directly or indirectly and distributed it to various officials. Pradip

Singh sent candidate details through e-mail and WhatsApp. Based on these

details, recommendation letters were issued, on the strength of which

appointment letters were issued by WBBSE. SP Sinha exercised his influence on

WBSSC and WBSSE officials while he was on power. The ED prosecution

complaint also relies on statements of various individuals amongst other

evidence, who have given testimonies against SP Sinha and other influential

persons. Given his clout and influence, there is a highly likely chance that he will

influence the witnesses which have helped ED in unearthing his properties and

admitted the cash transactions. SP Sinha has been arraigned an accused in

various cases of CBI and ED. The major allegations against him are that he has

given forged recommendation letters, thus it will not be wrong to state that he

may create records which are advantageous in trial for him and other accused.

Under PMLA, 2002 there was no specific provision for requesting sanction of

Public servants akin to Prevention of Corruption Act . PMLA, being a special

statute does not require sanction, as Section 71 of PMLA, 2002 gives an

overriding effect. Furthermore, Prosecution complaint in the instant matter was

filed on 18.04.2024. However, on 06.11.2024 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 17 Criminal Appeal No. 4314-4316 of 2024 in the case of ED vs. Bibhu Prasad

Acharya and Others held that Section 197(1) of the CrPC is applicable to a

prosecution complaint filed under Section 44(1) (b) of PMLA. In view of the said

judgement, out of abundant caution, without prejudice to the fact that even

though sanction may have been obtained in the scheduled offence by Central

Bureau of Investigation which is broad enough to subsume the PMLA

proceedings, a fresh sanction is sought from the competent authority for

prosecuting the public servant (s) for the commission of offence of money

laundering. It can be seen from the above paras that SP Sinha was not co-

operating with the investigation and he was evasive in his answers during his

statements. Thus, his further interrogation under Section 50 of PMLA, 2002

would not have yielded any positive investigative leads. Reliance is placed on the

following judicial pronouncements: i) Mohd. Enamul Haque v. Directorate of

Enforcement, Bail Application 1869/2022, Crl. M. (Bail) 421/2024, Crl. M.A.

18435/2023 and 5877/2024, decided on 29.07.2024 by the Hon'ble High Court

of Delhi; ii) Tarun Kumar v. Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement, SLP

(Crl.) No. 9431 of 2023, decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court; iii) Union of India

through the Assistant Director v. Kanhaiya Prasad, Criminal Appeal No. 728 of

2025 @ SLP (Crl.) No. 7140 of 2024, decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court; iv)

Gautam Kundu v. Manoj Kumar and Ors. , decided on 16.12.2015 by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, MANU/SC/1453/2015. Upon inquiry, learned Counsel has 18 submitted that the former Minister was not yet made an accused in this case, but

he was still under the scanner. On 24.02.2026, it was submitted on behalf of the

ED that the said Minister would be added as an accused in the instant PML Act case by 31.03.2026. 4. Earlier, it was submitted on behalf of the State that the application dated

18.11.2025 seeking sanction was received by the concerned authorities on

22.11.2025. It contained 257 pages and the 4 GB pendrive containing 96 folders.

On 11.12.2025, it was further submitted on behalf of the State that the State

would require at least three months' time to go through the documents and to

decide upon the question of sanction. 5. Adjournments were sought on behalf of the State on several occasions for

giving further response even on the question of how much more time would be

required to decide on the question of sanction. The issue of how much time the

State would need to decide the question of sanction has become relevant in this

matter for two reasons. First, in such cases where the Hon'ble Apex Court had

granted bail to the accused, it had taken into consideration whether the trial was

going to proceed smoothly or not. Moreover, the ED had alleged that some

instrumentalities of the State were hand in glove with accused. 6. On 23.02.2026 when the learned Advocate General asked about it, he

instead pointed to the limits of the jurisdiction of this Court while deciding an 19 application for anticipatory bail and submitted that he would rely on some

decisions. When this Court referred to Nathu Singh vs. State of UP & Ors. , (2021)

6 SCC 64, he sought an adjournment for responding to it. On 24.02.2026 when

the matter was heard again, this Court twice asked a specific question to the

Learned Advocate General about whether the State was going to decide the

question of sanction for prosecution against the accused within a reasonable

time or not. Each time the Learned Advocate General, effectively refused to

answer the Court's query and submitted that in an application under Section

439 of the Cr.PC, the Court was to confine its jurisdiction within the parameters

of Section 439 of the Cr.PC and in case, the Court felt some other essential

issues were required to be gone into, the High Court being a Constitutional Court

had to frame the question and refer it to the other jurisdiction of the High Court. He relied on Sanjay Dubey vs State of MP , (2023) 17 SCC 187 and tried to

distinguish Nathu Singh (supra) as merely accused - centric. 7. This Court had merely asked a question about a related fact and had not

decided anything by then. The answer could have fairly been in the negative. Yet,

effectively no direct answer was offered in respect of the question asked by the

Court. 8. I heard the learned counsels for the parties, perused the petitions, the

affidavits, the written notes of submissions and the documents placed before this

Court in the form of pendrive. 9. The allegations as are leveled against the present petitioner are far too

serious, whether it be in the case of the predicate offence or in the instant case

under the PML Act . In these cases, huge sums of money were illegally procured

from intending job seekers on the promise of granting Government jobs of

Assistant Teachers and then such money were siphoned off. Several jobs had to

be cancelled. Lakhs were denied proper opportunity. The allegations are perhaps

even more heinous than commission of offences by chit fund operators. In those

cases, the offences are committed by private individuals having no official role in

the Government. Here, the allegation is that by abusing their position as public

servants, such serious offences were committed, which led to untold misery for

so many. 10. On the facts of the case, after hearing the parties this Court is not at all in

a position to satisfy itself either that there are reasonable grounds for believing

that the petitioner is not guilty of such offence or that he is not likely to commit

any offence while on bail. Thus, the hurdle of the Section 45 of the PML Act

cannot be surmounted in the present case. As regards old age, the offences were

allegedly committed after the petitioner had become a senior citizen. However, 21 unduly long incarceration without trial may, in appropriate cases, outweigh the

requirement to fulfil the rigors of Section 45 of the PML Act when tested on the

anvil of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, it has to be seen

whether the present case satisfies such scrutiny. 11. That jail is an exception and bail is the rule is indubitably a jurisprudential

mandate. It is much more than a mere statement of intent or a normative

proposition. This principle has to be followed, albeit, after taking into account the

facts of each case and the ratios regarding grounds for grant of bail as have been laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court over the years. 12. It is true that one of the principal accused in the predicate offence case

being the Minister-in-charge was granted bail by the Hon'ble Apex Court on

18.08.2025, but the same was after the accused had remained in custody for

about 3 years. The petitioner too was granted bail by the same order. However,

the Hon'ble Court directed that before the bail bonds could be executed, the

charges would have to be framed by the trial Court with respect to the concerned

appellant against whom sanction had already been granted for the offences under

the Penal Code and the PC Act and for the others under the IPC alone. The

material witnesses were directed to be examined within a stipulated period. Thus,

bail was granted to the accused after ensuring that trial would proceed. 22 13. On the other hand, in the instant case, sanction has not yet been granted

by the State without which the trial apparently cannot be commenced. It is,

however, germane to point out here that the ED has also caused some delay in

praying for sanction. 14. Therefore, the aggravating circumstances appearing against the petitioner

as regards the question of grant of bail can briefly be enumerated as under:- 15. On the other hand, the mitigating circumstances appearing in favour of

the petitioner are as under:- ii. Although, the Enforcement Directorate could have taken

the petitioner in custody soon after investigation of the

predicate offences' case, they waited for a long time in taking

him into custody in the PML Act case, resulting in undue

additional period of incarceration in this case. iii. For the offences in the CBI case that involves greater

imprisonment, the petitioner had already been granted bail. In

the PML Act case for the present offences, the maximum

sentence is of 7 years. iv. The petitioner is already in custody for about 1 year and 8

months in connection with this case. v. The principal accused in this case being the former Minister

in question was granted bail by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

along with the petitioner in the predicate offences' case.

Surprisingly, the said former Minister has not yet formally

been made an accused in the present PML Act case. vi. Although the ED had come to know about the requirement

 of obtaining sanction in a PML Act case at least by November,

 2024 when the judgement in Bibhu Prasad Acharya (supra)

 was passed, they made a prayer for obtaining sanction only on

 18.11.2025, that too after the issue had come up for

 discussions before this Court. vii. It is difficult to directly connect the delay in granting

 sanction by the State to the present petitioner or to him alone. 16. Considering the above, the other materials available from the investigation

and the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances as mentioned above and

the fact that the petitioner has been granted bail after a long incarceration in the

predicate offences' case and is in custody in connection with the instant case for

about 1 year and 8 months, I am inclined to grant bail to the present petitioner. 17. The petitioner shall be released on bail upon furnishing a bond of

Rs.1,00,000/- with two sureties of like amount each, one of whom must be local,

to the satisfaction of the learned trial Court/Special Court/jurisdictional Court

and on further condition that - 18. While deciding this application, this Court cannot but refer to the

intrinsically connected issue of sanction for prosecution. It would indeed be

antithetic to the cause of justice if all the accused gradually get bail due to

prolonged custody, but the trial/proceeding gets stalled for want of sanction to be

given by the State. 19. Unfortunately, the submissions finally advanced on behalf of the State in

this regard have been rather evasive and nonchalant, especially when one 26 considers the unfathomable misery of the multitude of hapless victims of the

alleged crimes. 20. The decision in Sanjay Dubey (supra) is set on completely different facts

involving a starkly distinct issue of directing action/inquiry for dereliction of duty

and insubordination vis-à-vis an application for bail. However, the decision of a

Special Bench of Three Judges in Nathu Singh (supra) has recognized the

authority to invoke inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code in passing an

order to secure the ends of justice, even while deciding an application for

anticipatory bail, provided that there are adequate reasons for doing so. 21. In fact, in some such similar cases where the Hon'ble Apex Court had

granted bail to the accused, it had also taken into consideration whether the trial

was going to proceed smoothly or not. One needs to imbibe the same principle. 22. In view of the above and in the interest of justice, it is expected that the

State would decide the question of grant of sanction for the prosecution of the

accused in accordance with law and at the earliest, by keeping in mind the time

it had already taken to peruse the supplied documents. 23. The Learned Trial Court/Special Court shall also make all endeavour to

proceed expeditiously without granting any unnecessary adjournment to any of

the parties. 24. The application is, accordingly, disposed of. 25. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the

parties, upon completion of requisite formalities. (Jay Sengupta, J.)