CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 4412 &
4413 of 1985. From the Judgment and Order dated 9.8.1985 of	 the
Calcutta High Court in F.M.A.T. No. 1604 and 649 of 1983. Shanti Bhushan, Subrata Ray and	 A.K. Sil for	 the
Appellants. Dr. Y.S. Chitale, H.K. Puri, G.A. Shah, Mrs.	Anil
Katiyal, C.V. Subba Rao and R.N. Poddar for the Respondents. Mridul Ray and K. Swami for the Interveners.
 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by
 MADON, J.	These Appeals by Special Leave granted by
this Court raise two questions of considerable importance to
Government companies and their	 employees including their
officers. These questions are 1) Whether a Government company as	 defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956, is "the
	 State" within	 the meaning of Article 12 of	 the
	 Constitution? 2) Whether an unconscionable term in a contract of
	 employment is	 void under section 23 of the Indian
	 Contract Act,	 1872, as being opposed to public
	 policy and, when such a term is contained	in a
	 contract of	 employment entered into with a
	 Government company, is also	void as infringing Article 14 of the	 Constitution	in case a
	 Government company is "the State" under Article 12 of the Constitution? Although the record of these Appeals is voluminous, the
salient	 facts	lie within a	narrow	compass. The First
Appellant in both these Appeals, namely, the Central Inland
Water Transport Corporation Limited (hereinafter referred to
in short as "the Corporation"), was incorporated on February
22, 1967. The majority of the shares of the Corporation were
at all	times and still are held by the Union of India which
is 296 the Second Respondent in these Appeals, and the remaining
shares were and are held by the State of West Bengal and the
State of Assam. Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1959 (Act
No.l of 1956), provides as follows : As all	the shares of the Corporation are held by different
Governments, namely,	the Government	 of India and	 the
Governments of West Bengal and Assam, the Corporation is not
only a Government company as defined by the said section 617
but is	a company wholly owned by the Central Government and
two State Governments. Clause III(A) of the Memorandum of Association of the
Corporation lists the main objects of	 the Corporation and
clause III(B) of the Memorandum of Association lists	 the
objects incidental or ancillary to the main objects. It is
unnecessary to	reproduce all these objects for according to
the Petitions filed by the Corporation for obtaining Special
Leave in these Appeals, it is currently engaged in carrying
out the following activities, namely, (i) maintaining and running	river service	with
	 ancillary function of maintenance and operation of
	 river-site jetty and terminal; (ii) constructing vessels of various sizes and
	 descriptions; (iii)	 repairing vessels of	 various sizes	 and
	 descriptions; and (iv) undertaking general engineering activities. Article 4 of the Articles of	Association of	 the
Corporation provides that the	 Corporation is a private
company within	the meaning of clause	(iii) of sub-section
(1) of section 3 of the Companies Act and that no invitation
is to be issued to the public to subscribe for any shares
in, or	debentures or debenture stock	of, the Corporation. Article 51 of the Articles of Association confers upon the
President of India the power to issue from time to time such
directions or instructions as	he may consider necessary in
regard to the affairs or the conduct of the business of the
Corporation or	of the	Directors thereof. The said Article
also confers upon the	President the power to	 issue	such
directions or instructions to	the Corporation	 as to	 the
exercise and	performance of	 its functions	 in matters
involving national security or	 public interest. Under the
said Article, the Directors of the Corporation are bound to
comply with and give immediate effect to such directions and
instructions. Under Article 51A , the President has the power
to call	 for such returns, accounts and other	 information
with respect to properties and activities of the Corporation
as might be required from time to time. Under Article 40 ,
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and	 the
directions and	instructions issued from time to time by the
President under Article 51 , the business of the Corporation
is to be managed by the Board of Directors. Under Article
14(a) , subject	to the	provisions of section	252 of	 the
Companies Act, the President is to determine in writing from
time to	 time the number of Directors of the	 Corporation
which, however	is not	to be less than two or more	than
twelve and under Article 14(b) , at every annual general
meeting of the Corporation, every Director appointed by the
President is to retire	 but is eligible for re-appointment.
Under Article 15(a) , the President has the power at any time
and from time to time to appoint any person as an Additional
Director. Under Article 16 , the President has the power to
remove any Director appointed by him from office at any time
in his absolute discretion. Under Article 17 , the vacancy in
the office of a Director appointed by the President caused
by retirement,	removal, resignation, death or otherwise, is
to be filled by the President by fresh appointment. Article
18 provides that the Directors are not required to hold any
share qualification. Under Article 37 , the President	 may
from time to time appoint one of the Directors to the office
of the Chairman of the Board of 298 Directors or to the office of	 the Managing Director or to
both these offices for such time and at such remuneration as
the President may think fit and the President may also from
time to	 time remove the person or persons so appointed from
service and appoint another or others in his or their place
or places. Under Article 41 , the Chairman of the Board has
the power, on his own motion, and is bound, when requested
by the	Managing Director in writing,	to reserve for	 the
consideration of the President	 the matters relating to the
working of the Corporation set out in the said Article. Article 42 lists the matters in respect of	which prior
approval of the President is required to be obtained. Under Article 47 , the auditor or auditors of the Corporation are
to be appointed or re-appointed by the Central Government on
the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.
The said Article also confers power upon the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India to direct the manner in which the
accounts of the corporation are to be audited and to give
the auditors instructions in regard to any matter relating
to the	 performance of their	 function. Under the	said
Article, he has also the power to conduct a supplementary or
test audit of the accounts of the Corporation by such person
or persons as he may authorize in that behalf and for the
purposes of such audit to require such information or
additional information	to be furnished to such person or
persons on such matters by such person or persons as the
Comptroller and	 Auditor-General may, by general or special
order, direct. Under clause (V) of the Memorandum of Association, the
authorized share capital was rupees four crores. It	 was
raised to rupees ten crores by a special resolution passed
at the	Annual General	Meeting of the Corporation held on
December 30, 1972, and	 further raised to rupees twenty
crores by a special resolution passed at the Annual General
Meeting held on November 5, 1979. The above	facts and the provisions aforementioned of
the Memorandum	 of Association and	 the Articles	 of
Association clearly show that not only is the Corporation a
Government company of which all the shares were and	 are
owned by the Central Government and two State Governments
but is	a Government company which is under the complete
control and management of the Central Government. A company	called the "Rivers Steam Navigation Company
Limited" was carrying	 on very much	 the same business
including the maintenance and	running of river service as
the Corporation	 is doing. A	Scheme	of Arrangement	 was
entered into between the said company and the Corporation.
The Calcutta High Court by its order dated May 5, 1967,
approved the said Scheme of	Arrangement and order	 the
closure of the said Company and further directed that upon
payment to all the creditors of the said Company, the said
Company would stand dissolved without winding up by an order
to be obtained from the High	Court and accordingly, upon
payment to all the creditors, the said Company was ordered
to be dissolved. The said Scheme of Arrangement provided
that the assets and certain liabilities of the said Company
would be taken over by the Corporation. The said Scheme of
Arrangement as	approved by the High Court also provided as
follows : The First	Respondent in Civil Appeal No. 4412 of 1985,
Brojo Nath Ganguly, was, at the date when the said Scheme of
Arrangement became effective, working	in the	said Company
and his	 services were	taken over by the Corporation and he
was appointed on September 8,	 1967,	as a Deputy Chief
Accounts Officer. The First Respondent in Civil Appeal No.
4413 of	 1985, Tarun Kanti Sengupta, was also working in the
said 300 Company and his services were also	taken over by	 the
Corporation and	 he was	 appointed on September 8, 1967, as
Chief Engineer	on the ship "River Ganga". It is unnecessary
to refer at this stage to the terms and conditions of the
letters of appointment issued	to these two Respondents as
they have been subsequently superseded by service rules
framed by the Corporation except to state that under the
said letters of appointment the age of superannuation was
fifty-five years unless the Corporation agreed to retain
them beyond this period. The said letters of	 appointment
also provided that these Respondents would be subject to the
service rules and regulations	including the conduct rules.
Service rules were framed by the Corporation for the first
time in 1970 and were replaced by new rules in 1979. We are concerned in these Appeals with the "Central
Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. Service Discipline
and Appeal Rules" of 1979 framed by the Corporation. These
rules will hereinafter be referred to in short as "the said
Rules". The said Rules apply to all employees in the service
of the Corporation in all units in West Bengal, Bihar, Assam
or in other State or Union Territory except those employees
who are	 covered by the Standing Orders under the Industrial
Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 , or those employees
in respect of	whom the Board of Directors	 has issued
separate orders. Rule	9 of the said Rules	 deals	with
termination of	employment for acts other than misdemeanour.
The relevant provisions of the said Rule 9	relating to
permanent employees are as follows : Rule 33	 provides for suspension of an employee where a
disciplinary proceeding	 against him is contemplated or is
pending or where a case against him	in respect of	 any
criminal offence is under investigation or trial. Rule 34
provides for payment of subsistence allowance	 during	 the
period	of suspension.	 Rule 36 sets	 out the different
penalties which	 can be	 imposed on an employee for	 his
misconduct. These penalties are divided into minor and major
penalties. Rule 37 is as follows : Rule 38	 prescribes the procedure for imposing a major
penalty and sets out in detail how a disciplinary inquiry is
to be held. Rule 39 provides for action to be taken by the H 302 disciplinary authority	on the	report made by the Inquiring
Authority. Rule	 40 prescribes	the procedure to be followed
for imposing minor penalties. Rule 43 provides for a special
procedure to be followed in certain cases. This special
procedure consists of dispensing with a disciplinary inquiry
altogether. The said Rule 43 provides as follows : Rule 45	 provides for an appeal against an order imposing
penalty	 to the appropriate authority specified in	 the
Schedule to the said Rules and Rule 45-A provides for a
review. We are concerned in these Appeals with the validity of
clause (i) of Rule 9 only. So far as Ganguly, the First Respondent in Civil Appeal
No. 4412 of 1985, is concerned, he was promoted to the post
of Manager (Finance) in October 1980	and also acted as
General Manager	 (Finance) from November 1981 to March 1982.
On February 16, 1983, a confidential letter was sent to him
by the General Manager (Finance), who is the Third Appellant
in Civil Appeal No. 4412 of 1985, to reply within twenty-
four hours to the	allegation of	 negligence in	 the
maintenance of 303 Provident Fund	Accounts. Ganguli made a representation as
also gave a detailed reply to the said show cause notice.
Thereafter by a letter	 dated February	 26, 1983, signed by
the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of	the Corporation, a
notice under clause (i) of Rule 9 of	 the said Rules was
given to Ganguli terminating his	service	 with	 the
Corporation with immediate effect. Along with the	said
letter a cheque for three months' basic pay	and dearness
allowance was enclosed. So far as Sengupta, the	First Respondent in Civil
Appeal No. 4413 of 1985, is concerned, he was promoted to
the post of General Manager (River Services) with effect
from January 1, 1980. His name was enrolled by the Bureau of
Public Enterprises and he was called	for an interview for
the post of Chairman-cum-Director of the Corporation by the
Public Enterprises Selection Board. According to Sengupta,
he could not appear before the Selection Board as he
received the letter calling him for the interview after the
date fixed in D that behalf. According to Sengupta, the new
Chairman-cum-Managing Director	who was selected at the said
interview bore	a grudge against him for having competed
against him for the said post	 and on February 1, 1983, he
issued a charge-sheet against	Sengupta intimating to	 him
that a	disciplinary inquiry was proposed to be held against
him under the said Rules and	calling upon him to file his
written statement of defence.	By his letter dated February
10, 1983, addressed to	 the Chairman-cum-Managing Director,
Sengupta denied	 the charges made against him and asked for
inspection of	 documents and	 copies of statements of
witnesses mentioned in the said charge-sheet.	 By a letter
dated February 26, 1983, signed by the Chairman-cum-Managing
Director notice	 was given to Sengupta	 under clause (i) of
Rule 9	of the	said Rule, terminating his service with the
Corporation with immediate effect. Along with the	said
letter a cheque for three months' basic pay	and dearness
allowance in lieu of notice was enclosed. G
 Both Ganguly and	Sengupta filed	 writ petitions in
Calcutta High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution
challenging the	 termination of	 their service	as also	 the
validity of the said Rule 9(i). In both these writ petitions
rule nisi was issued and an ex parte interim order staying 304 the operation of the said notice of termination was passed
by a learned Single Judge of the High Court. The Appellants
before us went in Letters Patent Appeal before a Division
Bench of the said High Court	against the said ad interim
orders, the appeal in the case of Ganguly being F.M.A.T. No.
1604 of	 1983 and in the case of Sengupta being F.M.A.T. No.
649 of 1983. On January 28, 1985, the Division Bench ordered
in both	 these Appeals	that the said writ petitions should
stand transferred to and heard by it along with the said
appeals. The said appeals and writ petitions were thereupon
heard together	and by a common judgment delivered on August
9, 1985, the Division Bench held that the Corporation was a
State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution
and that the said Rule 9(i) was ultra vires Article 14 of
the Constitution. Consequently the Division Bench struck
down the said Rule 9(i) as being void. It also quashed the
impugned orders	 of termination	 dated February 26, 1983. It
is against the said judgment and orders of the Calcutta High
Court that the present	 Appeals by Special Leave have been
filed. The contentions raised on behalf of the Corporation at
the hearing of these Appeals may be thus summarized : given in Article 12 is wide	 enough	 to include
	 within its scope and reach a Government company.
	 (2) A	 State is entitled to carry on any activity,
	 even	a trading activity, through	any of	 its
	 instrumentalities or	 agencies, whether	such
	 instrumentality or	agency	 be one of	 the
	 Departments of the	 Government, a statutory
	 corporation, a statutory authority or a Government
	 company incorporated under the Companies Act .
	 (3) Merely because a Government company carries on
	 a trading activity or is authorized to carry on a
	 trading activity does not mean that it is excluded
	 from the definition of the expression "the State" During the	 course of the hearing of these Appeals the
Central	 Inland	 Water	 Transport Corporation Officers'
Association made an application for permission to intervene
in these Appeals and permission to intervene was granted to
it by this Court. The said Association supported the stand
taken by the contesting Respondents. We will now examine the	 correctness of the rival
submissions advanced at the Bar. The word "State" has different meanings depending upon
the context in which it is used. In	the sense of being a
polity,	 it is defined in the Shorter Oxford English
Dictionary, Third Edition, Volume II, page 2005, as "a body
of people occupying a defined territory and organized under
a sovereign government". The same dictionary	defines	 the
expression "the State" as "the body politic as organized for
supreme	 civil	 rule	 and government; the political
organization which is the basis of civil government; hence,
the supreme civil power and government vested in a country
or nation". According	to Black's Law Dictionary, Fifth
Edition, page 1262, "In its largest sense, a 'state' is a
body politic or a society of men". According to Black, the
term "State" may refer	 "either to the body politic of a
nation (e.g. United States) or to an individual governmental
unit of such	 nation	 (e.g.	 California)".	 In modern
international practice,	 whether a community is deemed a
State or not depends upon the general recognition accorded
to it by the existing group of other States. A State must
have a	relatively permanent legal organization, determining
its structure and the relative powers of its major governing
bodies or organs. This legal organizational permanence of a
State is to be found in its Constitution. With	rare
exceptions, such as the United Kingdom, most States now have
a written Constitution. The Constitutional structure	of a
State may be either unitary, as when it has a single system
of government applicable to all its parts, or federal when
it has	 one system of government operating	 in certain
respects and in certain matters in all 307 its parts and also separate governments operating in other
respects in distinct parts of the whole. In such a case the
units or sub-divisions having separate governments	 are
variously called 'states' as in India, U.S.A. and Australia,
'provinces' as	in Canada, 'cantons' as in Switzerland, or
designated by other names. B
 Our Constitution is federal in structure. Clause (1) of Article 1 of the Constitution provides that "India, that is
Bharat, shall be a Union of States" and clause (2) of that
Article	 provides that	 "The States and the	 territories
thereof shall be as specified in the First Schedule". me
word "States"	 used in Article 1 thus refers to	 the
federating units, India itself	 being a State consisting of
these units. The term "States" is defined variously in some
of the	other Articles of the Constitution as the context of
the particular	Part of the Constitution in which it is used
requires. Part VI of the Constitution is headed " me States" The State of Jammu and Kashmir is excluded because	that
State, though one of the States which constitute the Union
of India, had, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 370 of the	Constitution read with the Constitution (Application
to Jammu and Kashmir)	Order, 1954 (C.O. 48), set up a
Constituent Assembly for the internal Constitution of the
State and it had framed the	Constitution of Jammu	 and
Kashmir which was adopted and enacted	 by that Constituent
Assembly on November 17, 1965. Article 152 also, therefore,
uses the expression "State" as meaning the federating units
which constitute the Union of India. Part	XIV of	 the
Constitution deals with services under the Union and	 the
States. Article 308 provides as follows : This definition	 read with the other provisions of Part XIV
shows that the word "State" applies to the federating units
(other than the State	of Jammu and Kashmir for the reason
mentioned above) which together constitute the Union of
India because in the other Articles of Part XIV wherever the
Union of India is referred to, it is	 described as	"the
Union". Article	 366 of the Constiution defines certain
expressions used in the Constitution of India. That Article,
however, does	not contain any definition of the	term
"State". Under Article 367(1) , unless the context otherwise
requires, the General Clauses Act, 1897 (Act No. X of 1897),
subject to any adaptations and modifications	that may be
made therein by the President of India under Article 372 to
bring that Act into accord with the	 provisions of	 the
Constitution, applies	 for the interpretation of	 the
Constitution. Clause (58) of section	 3 of	the General
Clauses Act defines the term "State" as follows : This definition, therefore, also confines the term "State"
to the	federating units which together form the Union of
India. We are concerned in these Appeals with Article	 12. Article 12 forms part of Part III of the Constitution which
deals with Fundamental Rights and provides as follows : (Emphasis supplied)
The same definition applies to the expression "the State" The expression	"local authority" is defined in clause (31)
of section 3 of the General Clauses Act as follows : Thus, the expression "the State" when used in Parts III and
IV of	 the Constitution is	not confined to only	 the
federating States or the Union of India or even to both. By
the express terms of Article 12 the expression "the State" There are	three aspects of Article 12 which require to
be particularly noticed. These aspects are (i) the definition given in Article 12 is not an
	 explanatory and restrictive	 definition but an
	 extensive definition, (ii) it is the definition of the expression "the
	 State" and not of the term	"State" or "States",
	 and (iii) it is inserted	 in the Constitution for the
	 purposes of Parts III and IV thereof. As pointed	 out in Craies on Statute Law, Seventh
Edition, page 213, where an interpretation clause defines a
word to mean	 a particular	 thing,	 the definition is
explanatory and facie restrictive;	 and whenever	 an
interpretation clause defines a term to include something,
the definition	 is extensive.	 While	an explanatory	 and
restrictive definition	confines the meaning of the	word
defined to what is stated in the interpretation clause, so
that wherever the word	 defined is used in the particular
statute in which that interpretation clause occurs, it will
bear only that meaning unless where, as is usually provided,
the subject or context	 otherwise requires, an extensive
definition expands or	extends	 the meaning of the	word
defined to include within it what would otherwise not have
been comprehended in it when the word defined is used in its
ordinary sense. Article 12 uses the 311 word "includes". It	thus extends the meaning of	 the
expression "the	 State" so as to include within it also what
otherwise may not have been comprehended by that expression
when used in its ordinary legal sense. Article 12 defines the expression "the State" while the
other Articles	of the	Constitution referred to above, such
as Article 152 and Article 308 , and clause (58) of section 3 of the	General Clauses	 Act defines the term	"State". The
deliberate use	of the	expression "the State" in Article 12 as also	 in Article 36 would have normally shown that this
expression was	used to denote the State in its ordinary and
Constitutional sense of an independent or sovereign State
and the	 inclusive clause in Article 12 would have extended
this meaning to include within its scope whatever has been
expressly set out in Article 12. The	 definition of	 the
expression "the	 State" in Article 12 ,	 is however, for the
purposes of Parts III	and IV	 of the Constitution.	 The
contents of these two Parts clearly show that the expression
"the State" in Article	 12 as	also in Article 36 is	 not
confined to its ordinary and Constitutional sense as
extended by the inclusive portion of Article 12 but is used
in the	concept of the State in relation to the Fundamental
Rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution and the
Directive Principles of State Policy contained in Part IV of
the Constitution which Principles are declared by Article 37 to be fundamental to the governance of the	country	 and
enjoins upon the State to apply in making laws. What then	does the expression "the State" in	 the
context of Parts III and IV of the Constitution mean? F
 Men's concept of the State as a polity or a political
unit or	 entity and what the functions of the State are or
should be have changed	 over the years and particularly in
the course of this century. A man cannot obstinately cling
to the same ideas and concepts all his life. As Emerson said
in his	essay on "Self-Reliance", "A foolish consistency is
the hobgoblin of little minds". Man	is by	nature	ever
restless, ever	discontent, ever seeking something new, ever
dissatisfied with what he has. m is inherent trait in the
nature of man is reflected in the society in which he lives
for a society is a conglomerate of men who live in it. Just
as man by nature is H 312 dissatisfied, so is society. Just as	man seeks something
new, ever hoping that	a change will bring about something
better, so does society. Old values, old ideologies and old
systems are thus replaced by new ideologies, a new set of
values and a new system, they in their turn to be replaced
by different ideologies, different values and	 a different
system. The ideas that	 seem revolutionary become outmoded
with the passage of time and	the heresies of today become
the dogmas of tomorrow. What proves to be adequate	 and
suited to the needs of a society at	a given	 time and in
particular circumstances turns out to be wholly unsuited and
inadequate in	 different times and under different
circumstances. The story	of mankind is punctuated by progress	 and
retrogression. Empires	have risen and crashed into the dust
of history. Civilizations have	 flourished, reached their
peak and passed away.	In the year 1625, Carew, C.J., while
delivering The	opinion of the House of Lords	 in Re	 the
Earldom of Oxford, [1625] W.Jo. 96, 101. s.c. [1626] 82 E.R.
50, 53,	 in a dispute	relating to the descent of	that
Earldom, said : The cycle of change and experiment, rise and fall, growth
and decay, and of	progress and retrogression recurs
endlessly in	the history of man and the	 history of
civilization. T.S. Eliot in the First Chorus from "The Rock" The law exists to serve the needs of the society which
is governed by it. If the law is to play its allotted role
of serving the needs of the society, it must reflect the
ideas and ideologies of that society. It must keep time with
the heartbeats	of the	 society and with the needs	 and
aspirations 313 Of the people. As the society changes, the law cannot remain
immutable. The	early nineteenth century essayist and wit,
Sydney Smith, said, 'Then I	hear any man	talk of an
unalterable law, I am	convinced that	he is an unalterable
fool." The law must, therefore, in a changing society march
in tune	 with the changed ideas and ideologies. Legislatures
are, however, not best	 fitted for the role of adapting the
law to	the necessities	 of the	 time, for the	 legislative
process is too slow and the legislatures often divided by
politics, slowed down by periodic elections and overburdened
with myriad other legislative	activities. A constitutional
document is even less suited to this task, for	 the
philosophy and	 the ideologies underlying	it must of
necessity be expressed in broad and general terms and the
process of amending a	Constitution is	 too cumbersome	 and
time-consuming to meet the immediate needs. This task must,
therefore, of necessity fall upon the	 courts because	 the
courts can by the process of judicial interpretation adapt
the law to suit the needs of the society. n
 A large number of	 authorities were cited before us to
show how the courts have interpreted	the expression, "the
State" in Article 12. As these authorities are decisions of
this Court, we must perforce go through the whole gamut of
them though we may	 preface an examination of these
authorities with the observation that they only serve to
show how the concepts	of this Court have changed both with
respect to Article 12 and Article 14 to keep pace	with
changing ideas	and altered circumstances. Before embarking
upon this task we would, however,	like to quote	 the
following passage (which has become a	 classic) from	 the
opening paragraph of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes's "The
Common Law" which contains the lectures delivered by	 him
while teaching	law at	Harvard and which book was published
in 1881	 just one year before he was appointed an Associate
Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court: We will, therefore, briefly sketch the temper of the
times in which our Constitution was enacted and the purposes
for which Parts III and IV inserted in our Constitution. The bombs	which had rained down	upon the cities of
Europe, Africa	and Asia and the Islands in the Pacific had
changed, and changed dramatically, not only the political
but also the sociological, ideological and economic map of
the world. A world reeling from the horrors of the Second
World War and seeking	to recover from the trauma caused by
its atrocities sought to band all nations into one Family of
Man and for	this purpose set up	the United Nations
Organization in	 order to save succeeding generations from
the scourge of war which had twice in this century brought
untold sorrow to mankind and in order to reaffirm faith in
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the
human person and in the equal rights, of man and woman and
of nations large or small, and thus to give concrete shape
to the	dream of philosophers and poets that the war-drums
would throb no longer and the battle-banners would be furled
in the	Parliament of Man and	the Federation of the World.
But much had gone before. There was the signing of	 the
Inter-Allied Declaration of June 12, 1941, at St. James's
Palace in London 315 by the	 representatives of	the United Kingdom,	 the
Commonwealth, General de Gaulle and the governments in exile
of the	European countries conquered by Nazi Germany; there
was the	 Atlantic Charter of August 14, 1941; there was the
Declaration of	the United Nations signed on New Year's Day
of 1942	 at Washington, D.C., by twenty-six nations who were
fighting the Axis; there was the Declaration made at the
Moscow	Conference in	October	 1943 and at	the Teheran
Conference on December 1, 1943; there was the Dumbarton Oaks
Conference held in Washington, D.C., in August and September
1944; there was the Yalta Conference in February 1945; all
these culminating in the adoption on June 25, 1945, of the
Charter of the United	Nations in the Opera House of	 San
Francisco and the affixing of signatures thereon the next
day in	the auditorium	 of the Veterans' Memorial Hall.
Thereafter, in pursuance of Article 68 of the Charter of the
United States,	the Economic and Social Council set up the
Human Rights Commission in 1946. This Commission began its
work in January 1947 under the chairmanship of Mrs. Eleanore
Roosevelt, the widow of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The
Universal Declaration	of Human Rights prepared by	 the
Commission was	adopted by the General Assembly on December
10, 1948, at its session held in the Palais de Chaillot in
Paris.	Of the	 fifty-eight nations represented at	that
Session, none voted against it, two were absent, and eight
abstained from voting. It was thus in an atmosphere surcharged	 with human
suffering and yet a firm resolve not to succumb to it that
the Constituent	 Assembly which	 was set up to frame	 the
Constitution of	 India embarked upon its task on December 9,
1946, re-assembled after the midnight of August 14, 1947, as
the sovereign	 Constituent Assembly	 for India. After
Partition and fresh elections	in the new Provinces of West
Bengal and East Punjab, it re-assembled on October 31, 1947,
and thereafter	on November 26, 1949 adopted and enacted the
Constitution of India. Before commencing	its work, the Constituent Assembly
adopted a Resolution laying down its objectives : In its strict legal sense the written Constitution of a
country is a document	which defines the regular form or
system of its government, containing the rules that directly
or indirectly affect the distribution or exercise of	 the
sovereign power of the State and it is thus mainly concerned
with the creation of the three organs of the State - the
executive, the	 legislature and the	judiciary, and	 the
distribution of governmental	power among them and	 the
definition of their mutual relation (See Sri Sankari Prasad
Singh Deo v. Union of India and State of Bihar , [1952]
S.C.R.	89, 106, O. Hood Phillips'	"Constitutional	 and
Administrative 317 Law", Sixth Edition, page 11; Dicey's	 "An Introduction to
the Study of the Law of the Constitution", Tenth Edition,
page 23; and Jowitt's	Dictionary of English	Law, Second
Edition, Volume I, page 430). The framers of our Constitution did not, however, want
to frame for the Sovereign Democratic Republic which was to
emerge from their labours a Constitution in the strict legal
sense. They were aware	 that there were other Constitutions
which had given expression to certain	 ideals as the goal
towards which the country should strive and which	 had
defined	 the principles considered	fundamental to	 the
governance of the country. They were	aware of the events
that had culminated in	 the Charter of the United Nations.
They were aware that the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights had been adopted by the General Assembly of	 the
United Nations,	 for India was a signatory to it. They were
aware that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
contained certain basic and fundamental rights appertaining
to all	men. They were aware that these rights were born of
the philosophical speculations of the Greek and Roman Stoics
and nurtured by the jurists of ancient Rome. They were aware
that these rights had found expression in a limited form in
the accords entered into between the rulers and their
powerful nobles, as for instance, the accord of 1188 entered
into between King Alfonso IX and the Cortes	of Leon, the
Magna Carta of 1215 wrested from King John of England by his
barons on the Meadow of Runnymede and to which he	 was
compelled to affix his	 Great Seal on a small island in the
Thames in Buckinghamshire - still called Magna Carta Island,
and the	 guarantees which King Andrew	II of	Hungary	 was
forced to give by his Golden Bull of 1822. They were aware
of the	international treaties of the midseventeenth century
for safeguarding the right of religious freedom and	 the
rights of aliens. They were aware of the full blossoming of
the concept of Human Rights in the writings of	 the
"philosophes" such as Voltaire, Rousseau, Diderot, Rayal,
d'Alembert and	others, and of the concrete expression given
to it in the various Declarations of Rights of the American
Colonies (particularly	 Virginia) and in the American
Declaration of	Independence. They were aware that in 1789,
during the early years of the French Revolution, the French
National Assembly had in "The Declaration of the Rights of
Man 318 and of	the Citizen" proclaimed these rights in lofty words
and that Revolutionary	 France	 had translated them	into
practice with bloody deeds. They were aware of the treaties
entered	 into between	various	 States	 in the nineteenth
century	 providing protection	 for religious and other
minorities. They were aware that these rights had at last
found universal	 recognition in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. They were aware that the first ten Amendments
to the	 Constitution	of the	 United	 States	 of America
contained certain rights akin	to Human Rights. They	knew
that the Constitution of Eire contained a chapter headed
"Fundamental Rights"	 and another	 headed	 "Directive
Principles of State Policy".	They were aware that	 the
Constitution of Japan	 also contained a chapter headed
"Rights and Duties of the People". They were aware that the
major traditional functions of	 the State have been	 the
defence	 of its territory and its	inhabitants against
external aggression, the maintenance of law and order; the
administration of justice, the	 levying of taxes and	 the
collection of	 revenue. They	 were	 also	aware	that
increasingly, and particularly	 in modern times, several
States have assumed numerous and wide	 ranging functions,
especially in	the fields of	 education, health, social
security, control and maintenance of natural resources and
natural assets,	 transport and	communication services	 and
operation of certain industries considered basic to	 the
economy and growth of the nation. They were also aware that section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States of America contained "a welfare clause" empowering
the federal government to enact laws for the overall general
welfare of the people.	 They were aware that countries such
as the	United States,	the United Kingdom and	 Germany had
passed social welfare legislation. The framers of our Constitution were men of vision and
ideals, and many of them had	suffered in the cause of
freedom. They wanted an idealistic and philosphic base upon
which to raise the administrative superstructure of	 the
Constitution. They, therefore, headed our Constitution with
a preamble which declared India's goal and inserted Parts
III and IV in the Constitution. The Preamble to the Constitution, as amended by the A
Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)	Act, 1976 , proudly
proclaims: Part III of the Constitution gives a Constitutional
mandate for certain Human Rights - called Fundamental Rights
in the	Constitution -- adapted to the needs and requirement
of a country only recently freed from foreign rule	 and
desirous of forging a strong and powerful nation capable of
taking an equal place	among the nations of the world. It
also provides a Constitutional mode	of enforcing them.
Amongst these Rights is the one contained in Article 14 which provides : G
	 "14. Equality before law .-- The State shall not	deny to	 any person equality
	 before the law or the equal protection of the laws
	 within the territory of India." Part IV of the Constitution prescribes the Directive
Principles of State Policy. These Directive Principles have
not received the same	 Constitutional	 mandate for their
enforcement as	the Fundamental	 Rights have done. In	 the
context of the Welfare	 State which is the goal of	 our
Constitution, Articles	37 and 38(1) are important. They are
as follows : Under clause (a) of Article 39 , the State is, in particular,
to direct its policy towards securing that the citizens, men
and women equally, have the right to an adequate means of
livelihood. Article 41 directs that the State shall, within
the limits of its economic capacity and development, make
effective provision for securing the right to work. MANOHAR 321 The difference between Part III and Part IV is that
while Part III prohibits the State from doing certain things
(namely, from infringing any of the Fundamental Rights),
Part IV	 enjoins upon the State to do certain things. This
duty, however,	is not	enforceable in law but none the less
the Court cannot ignore what has been enjoined upon	 the
State by Part IV, and though	the Court may not be	able
actively to enforce the Directive Principles of State Policy
by compelling the State to apply them in the governance of
the country or in the making of laws, the Court can, if the
State commits a breach	 of its	 duty by acting contrary to
these Directive Principles, prevent it from doing so. In the working of	 the Constitution it was found that
some of the provisions of the Constitution were not adequate
for the	 needs of the country	or for ushering in a Welfare
State and the constituent body empowered in	that behalf
amended the Constitution several times. By the very first
amendment made	 in the Constitution, namely, by	 the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 , clause (6) of Article 19 was amended with retrospective effect. Under this
amendment, sub-clause (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 which
guarantees to all citizens the right to carry on	 any
occupation, trade or business, was not to prevent the State
from making any law reIating to the carrying	 on by	 the
State, or by a corporation owned or controlled by the State,
of any	trade, business, industry or service, whether to the
exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.
This amendment	also validated the operation of all existing
laws in	 so far as they had made similar provisions. Article
298 , as	 originally enacted, provided	that the executive
power of the Union and of each State was to extend, subject
to any	law made by the appropriate Legislature, to	 the
grant, sale, disposition or mortgage of any property held
for the	 purposes of the Union or of such State, as the case
may be,	 and to	 the purchase or acquisition of property for
those purposes respectively, and to the making of contracts;
and it	further provided that all property acquired for the
purposes of the Union or of a State was to vest in the Union
or in such State, as the case may be. Article 298 was
substituted by	the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)	Act,
1956 . As substituted, it provides as follows : Article 298 , as so substituted, therefore,	expands	 the
executive power	 of the	 Union of India and of each of the
States which collectively constitute the Union to carry on
any trade or business.	 By extending the executive power of
the Union and of each of the States to the carrying on of
any trade or business, Article 298 does not, however,
convert either the Union of India or any of the States which
collectively form the Union into a merchant buying and sell-
ing goods or	 carrying on either trading	or business
activity, for the executive power of	the Union and of the
States, whether	 in the field of trade or business or in any
other field, is always subject to Constitutional limitations
and particularly the provisions relating to	 Fundamental
Rights in Part III of the Constitution and is exerciseable
in accordance with and for the furtherance of the Directive
Principles of State Policy prescribed by Part IV of	 the
Constitution. The State	is an abstract entity and it can, therefore,
only act through its agencies or instrumentalities, whether
such agency or instrumentality	 be human or juristic. me
trading and business activities of the State constitute 323 "public enterprise". The structural forms in which	 the
Government operates in the field of public enterprise are
many and varied. These may consist of	 Government
departments, statutory	 bodies, statutory corporations,
Government companies, etc. In	this context, we can do no
better than cite the following passage from	 "Government
Enterprise - A Comparative Study" by W. Friedmann and J.F.
Garner, at page 507 : The immunities and privileges possessed by bodies so
set up	by the	Government in India cannot, however, be the
same as those possessed by similar bodies established in the
private sector	because the setting up	 of such bodies is
referable to the executive power of the Government under Article 298 to carry on any trade or business. As pointed
out by	Mathew, J., in Sukhdev Singh and others v. Bhagatram
Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi and another , [1975]	3 S.C.R. 619
(at page 648), "The governing power wherever located must be
subject to the fundamental constitutional limitations". The
privileges and	immunities of these bodies, therefore, are
subject to Fundamental Rights and exercisable in accordance
with and in furtherance of the Directive Principles of State
Policy. It is in the context of what has been stated above that
we will now review the authorities cited at the Bar. When we
consider these authorities,	 we will see how	 as
Constitutional thinking developed and the conceptual horizen
widened, new vistas, till then shrouded in the mist of
conventional legal phraseology and traditional orthodoxy,
opened out to the eye of judicial interpretation, and many
different facets of several Articles of the Constitution,
including Article 12 and 14 , thitherto unperceived, became
visible. There,	 however, still	 remain	 vistas	 yet to be
opened up, veils beyond which we today cannot see to be
lifted, and doors to which we still have found no key to be
unlocked. In Rai Sahib Ram	Jawaya Kapur and others v. The State
of Punjab , [1955] 2 S.C.R. 225, the State of Punjab, which
used to select books published by private publishers for 325 prescribing them as text-books and for this purpose used to
invite offers from publishers	and authors, altered	that
practice and amended the notification in that behalf so that
thereafter only authors were asked to submit their books for
approval as text-books. The validity of this notification
was challenged	inter alia on the ground that the executive
power of a State under Article 162 extended only to
executing the laws passed by the legislature or supervising
the enforcement	 of such laws. Under Article 162 , subject to
the provisions of the Constitution, the executive power of a
State extends to the matters with respect to which	 the
Legislature of the State has power to make laws, namely, the
matters enumerated in the State List	 (List	II) in	 the
Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. Under the proviso to
that Article, in any matter with respect to which	 the
Legislature of	a State	 and Parliament	 have power to make
laws, that is, the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List
(List III) in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the
executive power	 of the	 State is to be subject to,	 and
limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by the
Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union
or authorities	thereof. Under Article 154(1) , the executive
power of the State is vested	in the Governor and is to be
exercised by	him either directly or through officers
subordinate to	him in accordance with the Constitution. The
corresponding provisions as regards the executive power of
the Union of India are contained in Article 73 and Article
53(1). Repelling the above contention, Mukherjea, C.J., who
spoke for the Constitution Bench of the Court observed (at
page 230) : The following passage (at pages 235-36) from	 the
judgment of the Court in that	 case with respect to	 the
meaning	 of the expression	 "executive function"	 is
instructive and requires to be reproduced : Though this case was strongly relied upon by the Appellants,
we fail	 to see	 how it is relevant	to the	 submissions
advanced by the Appellants.	 The subsequent agreement
enabling the company to retrench some	 of its	 workmen was
challenged on the ground that it was	 in breach of	 the
earlier settlements entered into between the company and the
workmen's union. No question of violation of any of	 the
Fundamental Rights was at all raised in that case . The only
question which	fell for determination was whether a writ of
mandamus can issue to compel the performance of the earlier
settlements or	to restrain the enforcement of the impugned
subsequent agreement and the dispute, therefore, was	 one
which fell within the scope of the Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 (Act No. 14 of 1947). In State of Bihar v. Union of India and another , [1970]
2 S.C.R. 522 the State of Bihar filed nine	suits under Article 131 in connection with the delayed delivery of iron
and steel materials for the construction work- of the Gandak
project. In all these	suits the first defendant was	 the
Union of India while the second defendant in six of these
suits was the Hindustan Steel Ltd. and in the remaining
three, the Indian Iron	 and Steel Company Ltd. This Court
held that the specification of the parties in Article 131 was not	 of an	extensive kind	and excluded the idea	of a
private citizen, a firm or a	corporation figuring as a
disputant either alone or even along	with a State or with
the Government of India in the 329 category of a party to the dispute under Article 131. The Court further held that the enlarged	 definition of	 the
expression "the	 State" given in Parts	 III and IV of	 the
Constitution did not apply to Article 131 and, therefore, a
body like the Hindustan Steel Ltd. could not be considered
as "a State" for the purpose of Article 131. We fail to see
in what	 way this decision is at all relevant to the point.
The question before the Court in that case was whether the
Hindustan Steel	 Ltd. Or the Indian Iron and Steel Company
Ltd. was a State to enable a suit to be filed against it
under Article 131 and not whether either of these companies
fell within the scope	of the	definition of the expression
"the State" in Article 12. C
 Another authority	relied upon by the Appellants	 was S.L. Agarwal v. General Manager, Hindustan	Steel Ltd. ,
[1970] 3 S.C.R. 363.	The facts of	that case and	 the
contentions raised thereunder show that this	authority is
equally	 Irrelevant. In that	 case an employee of	 the
Hindustan Steel	 Ltd., whose services were terminated, filed
a petition under Article 226 claiming that such termination
was wrongful as it was really	 by way of punishment as the
provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution had	 not
been complied with. This Court held that the protection of
clause	(2) of Article 311 was available only to	 the
categories of persons mentioned in that clause and	that
though the appellant held a civil post as opposed to a
military post,	it was not a civil post under the Union or a
State and, therefore, he could not claim the protection of Article 311(2). The contention which was raised on behalf of
the appellant was that as Hindustan Steel Ltd. was entirely
financed by the Government and its management was directly
the responsibility of the Government, the post was virtually
under the Government of India. This contention was rejected
by the	Court holding that the	 company had its independent
existence and	by law	 relating to corporations it	 was
distinct from its members and, therefore, it	 was not a
department of the Government nor were its employees servants
holding posts under the Union. No question arose in that
case whether the company was "the State" within the meaning
of Article 12 and all that was sought to be contended was
that it was a department of the Government. In Sabhajit Tewary v. Union of India and others , [1975]
3 S.C.R. 616 this Court held that the Council of Scientific
and Industrial Research which was a society registered under
the Societies Registration Act was not an authority within
the meaning of Article	 12 and, therefore, certain letters
written	 by it	 to the petitioner with respect to	 his
remuneration could not be challenged as being discriminatory
and violative of Article 14. The contention raised in that
case was that the rules governing the said Council showed
that it	 was really an agent of the Government. This Court
rejected the said contention in these words (at page 617) : We now come to a	 case of considerable	 importance,
namely, Sukhdev	 Singh and others v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh
Kaghuvanshi and another . Two questions fell to be determined
in this case, namely, (i) whether statutory corporations are
comprehended within the expression "the State" as defined in Article 12 , and (ii) whether the regulations framed	by a
statutory corporation in exercise of the power conferred by
the statute creating the corporation have the force of law.
The majority 331 of a Constitution Bench of this court answered both these A
questions in the affirmative.	 me statutory	corporations
before the Court in that case were the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission established	 under	 the Oil and	Natural	 Gas
Commission Act, 1956 , the	Life Insurance	 Corporation
established under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 ,
and the Industrial Finance Corporation established under the Industrial Finance Corporation Act,	 1948 .	 Ray, C.J.,
speaking for himself and Chandrachud and Gupta, JJ., pointed
out (at	 page 634) that "The State undertakes commercial
functions in combination with	Governmental functions	in a
welfare State."	 The majority	held that "the State" as
defined in Article 12 comprehends bodies created for	 the
purpose of promoting economic	interests of the people and
the circumstance that statutory bodies are required to carry
on some	 activities of	the nature of trade or commerce does
not indicate that they	 must be excluded from the scope of
the expression "the State", for a public authority is a body
which has public or statutory duties	to perform and which
performs those	duties and carries on	its transactions for
the benefit of the public and not for private profit and by
that fact such an authority is not excluded from making a
profit for the public benefit. Mathew, J., in his concurring
judgment held that a finding of State financial support plus
an unusual degree of	 control over	the management	 and
policies might	lead one to characterize an operation as
State action. The learned Judge observed (at page 651-52) : After referring to the relevant provisions of the Acts under
which the above statutory bodies were established, Mathew,
J., continued (at pages 654-5) : (Emphasis supplied.)
 Various aspects of the question which we have to decide
were exhaustively considered by this Court in Ramana Dayaram
Shetty v. The International Airport Authority of India and
others , [1979]	3 S.C.R. 1014. In that case the Court
observed (at page 1032), "Today the Government, as a welfare
State, is the regulator and dispenser	 of special services
and provider of a large number of benefits, including jobs,
contracts, licences, quotas, mineral rights, etc." The ques-
tion in	 that case was whether	 the International Airport
Authority constituted	 under	the International Airports
Authority Act,	 1971 ,	 came within the meaning of	 the
expression "The	 State" in Article 12. Under the said Act,
the Authority	 was a	 body	corporate having perpetual
succession and	a common seal	and was to consist of a
Chairman and certain other members appointed by the Central
Government. The Central Government	 had the power to
terminate the appointment of or remove any member from the
Board. Although	 the authority	had no	share capital of its
own, capital needed by it for carrying out its functions was
to be	provided only	by the	 Central Government. While
considering the	 question whether such a body corporate was
included within	 the expression "the State", this Court said
(at page 1036) : (Emphasis supplied.)
After considering various factors and the case law on the
subject, the Court thus summed up the position : In Managing Director, Uttar Pradesh Warehousing Corpora
tion and another v. Vinay Narayan Vajpayee, [1980] S.C.R.773
an employee of the corporation successfully challenged his
dismissal from	 service. The	 appellant corporation	 was
established under the Agricultural Produce (Development and
Warehousing) Corporation Act, 1956, and was deemed to be a
Warehousing Corporation	 for a	State under the Warehousing
Corporation Act, 1962 . In his concurring judgment, Chinnappa
Reddy, J.,said (at page 784) : (Emphasis supplied.)
After referring to various authorities, the court summarized
the relevant tests which are to be gathered from the Inter-
national Airport Authority of	India 's case as follows (at
pages 96-7) : F
	 "(1) 'One thing is clear that if the entire share
	 capital of the corporation is held by Government
	 it would go a long way towards indicating that the
	 corporation is an instrumentality or agency of
	 Government.' G
	 (2) 'Where the financial assistance of the State
	 is so much as to meet almost entire expenditure of
	 the corporation, it would afford some indication
	 of the corporation	 being	 impregnated	with
	 governmental character.' 338 (3) 'It may also be a relevant factor. . . whether
	 the corporation enjoys monopoly status which is
	 the State conferred or State protected.'
	 (4) 'Existence of deep and pervasive State control
	 may afford an indication that the Corporation is a
	 State agency or instrumentality.'
	 (5) 'If the functions of the corporation of public
	 importance and closely related to	governmental
	 functions, it would	 be a	relevant factor in
	 classifying the corporation as an instrumentality
	 or agency of Government'." The right,	 title and interest of the Burmah Shell Oil
Storage	 and Distributing Company of India	 Limited in
relation to its undertakings in India	 were transferred to
and vested in the Central Government under section 3 of the
Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in	India)	Act,
1976. Thereafter, under section 7 of	the said Act,	 the
right, title, interest and liabilities of the said company
which had become vested in the Central Government, instead
of continuing so to vest in it, were directed to be vested
in a Government company, as defined by section 617 of the
Companies Act,	 1956,	namely,	 Bharat	 Petroleum. In Som
Prakash Rekhi v. Union of India and another , [1981] 2 S.C.R.
111 this Court held that Bharat Petroleum fell within the
meaning of the expression "the State"	 used in Article 12. The following passage (at pages 124-5) from the judgment in
that case is instructive and requires to be reproduced : The Court pointed out	that Clause Twelfth did not use the
words "body corporate" and, therefore, the question	 was
whether the expression "corporation" contained therein taken
in collocation	of the	words "established by	or under a
Central or Provincial or State Act" would bring within its
sweep a cooperative society. The Court said (at page 437) : The Court then proceeded to point out that a corporation is
an artificial being created by law, having a legal entity
entirely separate and distinct	 from the individuals	 who
compose it, with the capacity of continuous existence and
succession. The	 Court held that corporations established by
or under an Act of Legislature can	 only mean a	body
corporate which	 owes its existence, and not	 merely	 its
corporate status, to the Act. An association	 of persons
constituting themselves	 into a	 company under the Companies
Act or	a society under the Societies Registration Act owes
its existence not to the act of Legislature but to acts of
parties, though it may owe its status as a body corporate to
an Act	of Legislature. The observation of the Court in that
case with respect to companies were not intended by it to
apply to Government companies	as defined in section 617 of
the Companies Act, 1956, for by the express terms of sub-
clause (b) of Clause Twelfth of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code every person in	the service or pay of a
Government company as defined in section	617 of	 the
Companies Act, 1956, is a public servant. The second part of
the question which the	 Court was called upon to decide in
that case was whether	the appellant can be said to	be a
person who was employed in connection	 with the affairs of
the Union. The Court held that the Super Bazar was not an
instrumentality of the State and, therefore, it could not be
said that the appellant was employed in connection with the
affairs of the Union within the meaning of the section 197 of the	Code of	 Criminal Procedure. This observation	 was
again made with reference to the argument that the appellant
was employed in connection with the affairs of the Union. He
undoubtedly was	 not employed in connection with the affairs
of 342 the Union just as a person employed in a corporation is not
and cannot be said to be holding a civil post under the
Union or a State as held by this Court in S.L. Agarwal v.
General Manager, Hindustan Steel Ltd. In S.S. Dhanoa 's case
the Court was not called upon to decide and did not decide
whether a Government company	was an	 instrumentality or
agency of the State for the purposes of Parts III and IV of
the Constitution and thus, "the State" within the meaning of
that expression as used in Article 12 of the Constitution. The Indian Statistical	Institute is	 a society
registered under the Societies	 Registration Act, 1860 , and
is governed by the Indian Statistical Institute Act, 1959 ,
under which its control completely vests in the Union of
India. The society is	also wholly financed by the Union of
India. In B.S. Minhas	v. Indian Statistical Institute and
others , [1983]	4 S.C.C. 582 this Court, following	Ajay
Hasia's case, held that the said society was an "authority"
within the meaning of Article 12 and hence a writ petition
under Article	 32 filed against it	 was competent	 and
maintainable. In Manmohan Singh Jaitla v. Commissioner,
Union Territory	 of Chandigarh	 and others , [1984] Supp. S.C.C. 540 this Court once again following Ajay Hasia's case
held that an aided school which received a Government grant
of ninety-five	per cent was	an "authority"	 within	 the
meaning of Article 12 and, therefore, amenable to the writ
jurisdiction both of this Court and the High Court. In Workmen	 of Hindustan Steel Ltd. and	 another v.
Hindustan Steel	 Ltd. and others , [1984] Supp. S.C.C. 554,
560 the	 Court held that the hindustan Steel	Ltd. was a
public	sector	 undertaking and, therefore,	 was "other
authority" within the meaning of that expression in Article 12. In P.K. Ramachandra Iyer	and others v. Union of India
and others , [1984] 2 S.C.R. 141 once again following Ajay
Hasia's case, the Court held that the Indian	 Council of
Agricultural Research which was a society registered under
the Societies Registration Act was an instrumentality of the
State falling under the expression 'other authority' within
the meaning of Article	 12. The said	Council	 was wholly
financed by the Government. Its budget was voted upon as
part of the	expenses incurred in	 the Ministry	 of
Agriculture. The 343 control of the Government of India permeated through all its
activities. Since its inception, it was set up to carry out
the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Agriculture.
According to this Court, these facts were sufficient to make
the said Council an instrumentality of the State. In A.L. Kalra v.	Project and Equipment Corporation of
India Ltd. , [1984] 3 S.C.R. 316,319,325 the said corporation
was held to be an instrumentality of the Central Government
and hence falling within Article 12. The	Project	 and
Equipment Corporation of India	 Ltd. was a wholly owned
subsidiary company of the State Trading Corporation but was
separated in 1976 and thereafter functioned as a Government
of India undertaking. The	finding	 that	it was	 an
instrumentality of the	 Central Government was, however,
based upon concession made by the said corporation. In West Bengal State Electricity Board and others v.
Desh Banahu Ghosh and	others , [1985] 3 S.C.C. 116 the West
Bengal	State	Electricity Board was held	 to be	 an
instrumentality of the State. As pointed	 out earlier, the Corporation	which is the
First Appellant	 in these Appeals is not only a Government
company as defined in section 617 of the Companies	Act,
1956, but is wholly owned by three Governments jointly. It
is financed entirely by these	 three	Governments and is
completely under the control of the Central Government, and
is managed by the Chairman and Board of Directors appointed
by the	Central Government and removable by it. In every
respect	 it is thus	a veil	 behind	 which	the Central
Government operates through	the instrumentality of a
Government company. The activities	carried	 on by	 the
Corporation are of vital national importance. The Fifth Five
Year Plan 1974-79 states that the "outlay of Rs.14.73 crores
for the	 next two years includes development of Rajabagan
Dockyard and operation of the Central Inland Water Transport
Corporation and	 operation of river services on the Ganga."
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan, 1980-85, inland water
transport is recognized as the cheapest mode of transport
for certain kinds of commodities provided the points of
origin and destination are both located on the water front;
that it	 is one	 of the most	energy	efficient modes of
transport and has considerable potential in limited areas H 344 which have a net-work	 of waterways.	 This Plan further
emphasises that	 in the	 North-Eastern	Region	where other
transport infrastructure is	severely lacking and	more
expensive, inland water transport	has an	 additional
importance as an instrument of development. The said Plan
goes on to state, "In the Central Sector, an outlay of Rs.45
crores has been made for IWT. The most important programme
relates to the investment proposal of Central Inland Water
Transport Corporation (CIWTC)". The Annual Plan 1984-85 of
the Government	 of India Planning Commission states as
follows in paragraph 10.33 : The Annual Report 1984-85 of	 the Government of India,
Ministry of Shipping and Transport, states in paragraph
6.1.2. as follows : (Emphasis supplied.) 345 As shown by the Statement of	Objects and Reasons to	 the
Legislative Bill, which when enacted became the National
Waterway (Allahabad-Halda Stretch of the Ganga-Bhagirathi-
Hooghly River)	Act, 1982 (Act No. 49 of 1982), published in
the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part II, Section 2 ,
dated May 6, 1982, at page 15, the Central Government had
set up	various committees in view of the advantages in the
mode of	 inland water transport such as its low cost of
transport, energy efficiency, generation of employment among
weaker sections	 of the	 community and less pollution. These
committees had	 recommended that the	 Central Government
should declare	certain waterways as national waterways and
assume responsibility for their development. A beginning in
respect of this matter was thus made by the enactment of the
said Act No. 49 of 1982. Under the said Act, the	said
stretch was declared to be a	national waterway and it was
the responsibility of the Central Government to regulate and
develop this national waterway	 and to secure its efficient
utilization for	 shipping and navigation. In the Demands for
Grant of the Ministry	of Shipping and Transport 1985-86
additional provision was made	for an	overall increase in
Budget	 Estimates	1985-86	 mainly for equity
participation/investment in the Corporation. The activities
carried on by the Corporation were thus described in the
said Demands for Grant : Last year Parliament passed the Inland Waterways Authority
of India Act, 1985 . This Act received the assent of	 the
President on December 30, 1985. Under this act, an Authority
called the 346 Inland Waterways Authority of India is to be constituted and
it is to be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having
perpetual succession and a common seal, with power, subject
to the	provisions of the said	 Act, to acquire, hold	 and
dispose of property, both movable and	 immovable, and to
contract and to sue and be sued by the said name. It is to
consist of a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman and other persons not
exceeding five.	 The Chairman,	Vice-Chairman and the other
persons are to be appointed by the Central Government. The
term of	 office and other conditions	of service of	 the
members of the Authority are to be prescribed by the rules.
The Central Government has also the power to	 remove	 any
member of the Authority or to	 suspend him pending inquiry
against him. Under the	 said act, the Authority is, in the
discharge of its functions and duties, to be bound by such
directions on questions of policy as the Central Government
may give in writing to it from time to time. It may be mentioned that neither the said Act nor Act
No.49 of 1982 appears to have been yet brought into force. There can	thus be	 no doubt that the Corporation is a
Government undertaking in the public sector. The Corporation
itself has considered that it is a Government of India
undertaking. The complete heading of	the said Rules is
"Central Inland Water	 Transport Corporation	 Limited (A
Government of	India Undertaking) -	Service, Discipline
Appeal Rules - 1979". In the face of so much evidence it is ridiculous to
describe the Corporation as	a trading company as	 the
Appellants have attempted to do. What has been set out above
is more	 than sufficient to show that the activities of the
Corporation are	 of great importance to public interest,
concern and welfare, and are	 activities of	 the nature
carried on by a modern State	and particularly a modern
Welfare State. It was, however, submitted on behalf of the Appellants
that even though the cases, out of those referred to above ,
upon which the	 Appellants had relied upon	were either
distinguishable or inapplicable for determining the question
whether a Government company was "the	 State" or not, the
case of A. L. Kalra v. Project and Equipment Corporation of
India 347 Ltd. relied upon by the Respondents	 was based upon a
concession and	there was thus no direct authority on the
point in issue. It was further submitted that all the other
cases in which various	 bodies were held to be "the State" The only reason given by the Court for	holding that
Hindustan Steel Limited was	 "other authority"	and,
therefore, "the State" under Article 12 was the fact that it
was a public sector undertaking. In the entire judgment ,
there is no other discussion on this point except what is
stated in the passage quoted above. Thus, to the extent that
there is no authority	of this Court in which the question,
namely, whether	 a Government company is "the State" within
the meaning of Article	 12 has	 been discussed and decided,
the above submission is correct. Does this,	 therefore, make any difference? There is a
basic fallacy vitiating the above submission. That fallacy
lies in	 the assumption	 which that submission	 makes	that
merely because	a point	 has not fallen for decision by the
Court, it should, therefore, not be decided at any time.
Were this assumption true, the law would have remained
static and would have	never advanced. The whole process of
judicial interpretation	 lies in extending or	applying by
analogy	 the ratio decidendi	of an	earlier	 case to a
subsequent case which differs from it in certain essentials,
so as to make	the principle laid down in the earlier case
fit in	with the new set of circumstances. The sequitur of
the above assumption would be that the Court should tell the
suitor that there is no precedent governing his case and,
therefore, it cannot give him any relief. This would be to
do gross injustice. Had this not been done, the law would
have never advanced. For instance, had Rylands v. Fletcher,
[1868] L.R. 3 H.L. 330 not been decided in the way in which
it was,	 an owner or occupier	of land	 could with impunity
have brought and kept	on his	land anything likely to do
mischief if it escaped	 and would have himself escaped all
liability for the damage caused by such escape if he had not
been negligent.	 Similarly, but	 for Donoghue v. Stevention,
[1932] A.C. 562 manufacturers	would have been immune from
liability to the ultimate consumers and users of their
products. What is the position before us?	Is it only one case
decided on a concession and another based upon an assumption
that a Government Company is "the State" under Article 12? That is	 the position in fact	but not	 in substance. As we
have seen, authorities constituted under, and corporations
established by, statutes	have been held to	 be
instrumentalities and agencies of the Government in a long
catena of decisions of	 this Court. The observations in
several of these decisions, which have been emphasised by us
in the passages extracted from the judgments in those cases,
are general in their nature and take in their sweep	 all
instrumentalities and agencies of the State, whatever be the
form which such instrumentality or agency may have assumed.
Particularly relevant	 in this connection are	 the
observations of	 Mathew, J., in Sukhdev Singh and others v.
Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi and another , of Bhagwati,
J., in	the International Airport Authority 's case and Ajay
Hasia's case and of Chinnappa Reddy,	J., in Uttar Pradesh
Warehousing Corporations case. If there is	 an
instrumentality or agency of the state which has assumed the
garb of	 a Government company as defined in section 617 of
the Companies Act, it does not follow that it thereby ceases
to be an instrumentality or agency of the State. For the
purposes of Article 12 one must necessarily see through the
corporate veil	to ascertain whether behind that veil is the
face of	 an instrumentality or agency	of the	 State.	 The
Corporation, which is the Appellant in these two Appeals
before us, squarely falls within these observations and it
also satisfies	the various tests which have been laid down.
Merely because	it has	so far	not the	 monopoly of inland
water transportation is not sufficient to divest it of its
character of an instrumentality or agency of the State. It
is nothing but the Government operating behind a corporate
veil, carrying	out a governmental activity and governmental
functions of vital public importance. mere can thus be no
doubt that the Corporation is "the State" within the meaning
of Article 12 of the Constitution. We now turn to the second question which falls	 for
determination in these Appeals, namely,	whether	 an
unconscionable term in a contract of employment entered into
with the Corporation,	which is "the	 State"	 within	 the
meaning of the expression in Article	12 , is void as being
violative of Article 14. What is challenged under this head
is clause (i) of Rule 9 of the said Rules. This challenge
levelled by the Respondent in each of these	two Appeals
succeeded in the High Court. H 350 The first	point which falls for consideration on this
part of	 the case is whether Rule 9(i) is unconscionable. In
order to ascertain this, we must first examine the facts
leading to the making of the said Rules and then the setting
in which Rule 9(i) occurs. To recapitulate briefly, each of
the contesting	Respondents was in the service of the Rivers
Steam Navigation Company Limited. Their services were taken
over by	 the Corporation after the Scheme of Arrangement was
sanctioned by the Calcutta High Court. Under the said Scheme
of Arrangement	if their services had	not been taken over,
they would have been entitled to compensation payable to
them, either under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , or
otherwise legally admissible, by the said company, and the
Government of India was to provide to the said company the
amount	of such compensation. Under the	letters	 of
appointment issued to these	 Respondents,	the age of
superannuation was fifty-five.	 Thereafter, Service Rules
were framed by the Corporation in 1970 which were replaced
in 1979	 by new rules namely, the said Rules. The said Rules
did not apply	 to employees	covered	 by the Industrial
Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 , that is, to workmen,
or to those in	 respect of whom the Board of Directors had
issued	separate orders. At	all relevant times, these
Respondents were employed mainly in a managerial capacity.
No separate orders were issued by the Board of Directors in
their case. These Respondents	were, therefore, admittedly
governed by the said Rules. Under Rule 10 of the said Rules,
they were to retire from the service of the Corporation on
completion of	the age of fifty-eight years though in
exceptional cases and in the interest of the Corporation an
extension might	 have been granted to	them with the prior
approval of the Chairman-cum-Managing Director and the Board
of Directors of the Corporation. me said Rules, however,
provide four different modes in which	 the services of the
Respondents could have been terminated earlier than the age
of superannuation, namely, the	 completion of	the age of
fifty-eight years. These modes	 are those provided in Rule
9(i), Rule 9(ii), sub-clause (iv) of clause (b) of Rule 36
read with Rule 38 and Rule 37. Of these four modes, the
first two apply to permanent employees and the other two
apply to all employees. Rule	6 classifies employees as
either Permanent or Probationary or Temporary or Casual or
Trainee. Clause (i) of Rule	 6 defines the expression
"Permanent employee" as meaning "an employee whose services
have been confirmed in 351 writing according to the Recruitment and Promotion Rules".
Under Rule 9(i) which has	been extracted	 above,	 the
employment of a permanent employee is	 to be	 subject to
termination on	three months' notice in writing on either
side. If the Corporation gives such a notice of termination,
it may	pay to	the employee the equivalent of three months'
basic pay and dearness allowance, if any, in lieu of notice,
and where a permanent	employee terminates the employment
without giving due notice, the Corporation may deduct a like
amount from the amount due or payable to the employee. Under
Rule 11, an employee who wishes to leave the service of the
Corporation by	resigning therefrom, is to give to	 the
Corporation the	 same notice as the Corporation is required
to give to him under Rule 9, that is, a three months' notice
in writing. Under rule	 9(ii), the services of a permanent
employee can be terminated on the ground of	"Services no
longer required	 in the	 interest of the Company" (that is,
the Corporation). In such a case, a permanent employee whose
service is terminated under this clause is	to be	paid
fifteen days' basic pay and dearness	allowance for	each
completed year	of continuous service in the Corporation and
he is also to	be entitled to encashment of leave to his
credit. Rule 36 prescribes the penalties which can be
imposed, "for good and sufficient reasons and as hereinafter
provided" in the said Rules, on an employee for	 his
misconduct. Clause (a)	 of Rule 36 sets out the minor
penalties and clause (b) of Rule 36 sets out the major
penalties. Under sub-clause (iv) of clause (b) of Rule 36,
dismissal from service is a major penalty. None of the major
penalties including the penalty of dismissal is to be
imposed except	after holding an inquiry in accordance with
the provisions	of Rule	 38 and	 until after the inquiring
authority, where it	is not itself the	disciplinary
authority, has	forwarded to the disciplinary authority the
records of the inquiry	 together with	its report, and the
disciplinary authority has taken its decision as provided in
Rule 39. Rule 40 prescribes the procedure to be followed in
imposing minor	penalties. Under Rule	43, notwithstanding
anything contained in Rules 38, 39 or 40, the disciplinary
authority may dispense with the disciplinary inquiry in the
three cases set out in Rule 43 and impose upon an employee
either a major or minor penalty. We have reproduced Rule 43
earlier. Rule 45 provides for an appeal against an order
imposing any of the penalties specified in Rule 36. Under
Rule 37, the Corporation has the 352 right to terminate the	 service of any employee at any time
without any notice if	the employee is found guilty of any
insubordination, intemperance or other misconduct or of any
breach of any rules pertaining to service or conduct or non-
performance of	his duties. The said Rules do	 not require
that any disciplinary inquiry should be	held before
terminating an employee's service under rule 37. Each of the contesting Respondents in these Appeals was
asked to submit his written explanation to	the various
allegations made against him. Ganguly, the First Respondent
in Civil Appeal No. 4412 of 1985, gave a detailed reply to
the said show cause notice. Sengupta, the First Respondent
in Civil Appeal No. 4413 of 1985, denied the charges made
against him and asked	for inspection	of the documents and
copies of statements of witnesses mentioned in the charge-
sheet served upon him	to enable him to file his written
statement. Without holding any inquiry into the allegations
made against them, the services of	each of them	were
terminated by the said letter dated February 26, 1983, under
Rule 9(i). The action was not taken either under Rule 36 or
Rule 37	 nor was either of them dismissed after applying to
his case Rule	 43 and dispensing with he	disciplinary
inquiry. It was submitted on behalf of the Appellants that there
was nothing unconscionable about Rule 9(i), that Rule 9(i)
was not	 a nudum pactum for it was supported by mutuality
inasmuch as it conferred an equal right upon both parties to
terminate the contract of employment, that the grounds which
render an agreement void and unenforceable are set out in
the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (Act No. IX of 1872), that
unconscionability was not mentioned in the Indian Contract
Act ,as	 one of	 the grounds which invalidates an agreement,
that the power conferred by Rule 9(i) was necessary for the
proper functioning of the administration of the Corporation,
that in the case of the Respondents this power was exercised
by the	Chairman-cum-Managing Director	of the	Corporation,
and that a person holding the highest office in	 the
Corporation was	 not likely to abuse the power conferred by
Rule 9(i). The submissions of the contesting Respondents, on the
other hand, were that the parties did not stand on an equal
S footing and did not enjoy the same bargaining power, that
the 353 contract contained in the service rules was one imposed upon
A these	 Respondents, that the power conferred by rule 9(i)
was arbitrary and uncanalized	as it did not	set out	 any
guidelines for	the exercise of that power and that	even
assuming it may not be void as a contract; in any event it
offended Article 14 as it	conferred an absolute	 and
arbitrary power upon the Corporation. As the question before us is of the validity of clause (i) of	Rule 9,	 we will refrain from expressing any opinion
with respect to the validity of clause (ii)	of Rule 9 or
Rule 37 or 40 but will confine ourselves only to Rule 9(i). The said Rule constitute	a part	of the	contract of
employment between the Corporation and its employees to whom
the said Rules apply,	and they thus form a part of	 the
contract of employment between	 the Corporation and each of
the two	 contesting Respondents. The validity	of Rule 9(i)
would, therefore, first fall to be tested by the principles
of the law of contracts. Under section 19 of the	Indian	Contract Act,	when
consent to an agreement is caused by coercion, fraud or
misrepresentation, the	agreement is a contract voidable at
the option of the party whose consent was so caused. It is
not the	 case of either of the contesting Respondents that
there was any coercion brought to bear upon him or that any
fraud or misrepresentation had	 been practised upon	him.
Under section 19A, when consent to an agreement is caused by
undue influence, the agreement is a contract voidable at the
option of the party whose consent was so caused and	 the
court may set aside any such contract either absolutely or
if the	party who was entitled to avoid it has received any
benefit thereunder, upon such terms and conditions as to the
court may seem just. Sub-section (1) of section 16 defines
"Undue influence" as follows : The material provisions of sub-section (2) of section 16 are
as follows : We need not trouble ourselves with the other sections of the Indian Contract	 Act except sections 23 and 24 . Section 23 states that the consideration	or object of an agreement is
lawful unless inter alia the Court regards it as opposed to
public policy.	This section further provides	 that every
agreement of which the	 object or consideration is unlawful
is void. Under section 24 ,	if any	 part of a single
consideration for one or more objects, or any one or any
part of	 any one of several considerations for a single
object is unlawful, the agreement is void. The agreement is,
however, not always void in its entirety for	 it is	well
settled that if several distinct promises are made for one
and the	 same lawful consideration, and one or more of them
be such as the law will not enforce, that will not of itself
prevent the rest from	being enforceable. The general rule
was stated by Willes,	J., in	Pickering v. Ilfracombe Ry.
Co., [1868] L.R. 3 C.P. 235 (at page 250) as follows : Under which head would an unconscionable bargain fall?
If it falls under the head of undue influence, it would be
voidable but if it falls under the head of being opposed to
public policy,	it would be void. No case of the type before
us appears to have fallen for	 decision under	 the law of
contracts before any court in India nor has any case on all
fours of a court in any other country been pointed out to
us. The	 word "unconscionable"	is defined in	the Shorter
Oxford English	Dictionary, Third Edition, Volume II, page
2288, when used 355 with reference	to actions etc. as "showing no regard for
conscience; irreconcilable with what is	 right	 or
reasonable". An	 unconscionable bargain would, therefore, be
one which is	 irreconcilable	 with	what is right or
reasonable. Although certain types of	 contracts were	 illegal or
void, as the case may be, at Common Law, for instance, those
contrary to public policy or to commit a legal wrong such as
a crime	 or a tort, the general rule	was of	 freedom of
contract. This	rule was given full play in the nineteenth
century on the ground that the parties were the best judges
of their own interests, and if they freely and voluntarily
entered into a contract the only function of the court was
to enforce it. It was considered immaterial that one party
was economically in a stronger bargaining position than the
other; and if such a party introduced qualifications	 and
exceptions to his liability in clauses which are today known
as "exemption clauses" and the other	party accepted them,
then full effect would be given to what the parties agreed.
Equity, however, interfered in many	cases of harsh or
unconscionable bargains, such as, in the law relating to
penalties, forfeitures	and mortgages. It also interfered to
asset aside harsh or unconscionable contracts	 for salvage
services rendered to a vessel in distress, or unconscionable
contracts with	expectant heirs in which a person, usually a
money-lender, gave ready cash to the heir in return for the
property which	he expects to inherit	and thus to get such
property at a gross undervalue. It also interfered	with
harsh or unconscionable contracts entered into with poor and
ignorant persons who had not received	 independent advice
(See Chitty on Contracts, Twenty-fifth Edition, Volume I,
paragraphs 4 and 516). F
 Legislation has also interfered	 in many cases to
prevent one party to a contract from taking undue or unfair
advantage of	the other. Instances	 of this type of
legislation are	 usury	laws, debt relief laws and	laws
regulating the	hours of work and conditions of service of
workmen and their unfair discharge from service, and control
orders directing a party to sell a particular essential
commodity to another. In this connection, it is useful	 to note what Chitty
has to	say about the old ideas of freedom of contract in
modern times. The relevant passages are to be found in
Chitty on Contracts, Twenty-fifth Edition, Volume I, in
paragraph 4, and are as follows : What the French call "contracts d'adhesion',	the American
call A	"adhesion contracts" or "contracts of adhesion." An
"adhesion contract" is defined	 in Black's Law Dictionary,
Fifth Edition, at page 38, as follows : The position under the American	 Law is stated in
"Reinstatement	of the Law	- Second" as	adopted	 and
promulgated by	the American Law Institute, Volume II xx
which deals with the law of contracts, in section 208 at
page 107, as follows : D
	 "$ 208. Unconscionable Contract or Tern
	 If a contract or term thereof is unconscionable at
	 the time the contract is made a court may refuse
	 to enforce the contract, or may	enforce	 the
	 remainder of the	 contract without	 the
	 unconscionable term,	 or may so	 limit	 the
	 application of any unconscionable term as to avoid
	 any unconscionable result." In the	Comments given	under that section it	is stated at
page 107 : (Emphasis supplied.)
There is a statute in the United States called the Universal
Commercial Code which is applicable to contracts relating to
sales of goods. Though	 this statutes	is inapplicable to
contracts not involving sales	of goods, it has proved very
influential in,	 what are called in the United States, L
"non-sales" cases. It has many times	been used either by
analogy or because it was felt to embody a general accepted
social attitude	 of fairness going beyond its statutory
application to sales of goods. In the Reporter's Note to the
said section 208 , it is stated at page 112 : (Emphasis supplied.)
The position has been	thus summed up by John R. Pedan in
"The Law of Unjust Contracts" published by Butterworths in
1982, at pages 28-29 : It would appear from certain recent English cases that
the courts in that country have also begun to recognize the
possibility of	an unconscionable bargain which could be
brought about by economic duress even	 between parties who
may not	 in economic terms be situate differently (see, for
instance, occidental worldwide Investment Corpn. v. Skibs
A/S Avanti, [1976] 1 Lloyd's Rep. 293, North ocean Shipping
Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Construction Co. Ltd., [1979] Q.B. 705,
Pao On	v. Lau	 Yin Long [1980] A.C. 614 and Universe
Tankships of Monrovia v. International Transport Workers
Federation, [1981] 1 C.R. 129, reversed in [1981] 2 W.L.R.
803 and the	commentary on	these cases in Chitty on
Contracts, Twenty-fifth Edition, Volume I, paragraph 486). Another jurisprudential concept of comparatively modern
origin which has affected the law of contracts is the theory
of "distributive justice". According	 to this doctrine,
distributive fairness and justice in	 the possession of
wealth and property can be achieved not only by taxation but
also by regulatory control of private and	 contractual
transactions even though this	might involve some sacrifice
of individual liberty. In Lingappa Pochanna	Appelvar v.
State of Maharashtra & Anr. , [1985] 1 S.C.C. 479 this Court,
while upholding	 the constitutionality	of the Maharashtra
Restoration of Lands to Scheduled Tribes Act, 1974 , said (at
page 493) : (Emphasis supplied.)
 When our Constitution states that it is being enacted
in order to give to all the citizens	 of India "JUSTICE,
social, economic and political", when clause (1) of Article
38 of the Constitution	 directs the State to strive to
promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting
as effectively	as it may a social order in which social,
economic and	political justice shall inform all	 the
institutions of	 the national	life, when clause (2) of Article 38 directs the State, in particular, to minimize the
inequalities in	 income, not only amongst individuals	 but
also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or
engaged in different vocations, and when Article 39 directs
the State that it shall, in particular, direct its policy
towards securing that the citizens, men and women equally,
have the right to an adequate means of livelihood and that
the operation of the economic system does not result in the
concentration of wealth and means of	 production to	 the
common detriment and that there should be equal pay	 for
equal work for both men and women, it is the doctrine of
distributive justice which is	speaking through these words
of the Constitution. Yet another theory which	has made its emergence in
recent years in the sphere of	 the law of contracts is the
test of reasonableness or fairness of a clause in a contract
where there is inequality of bargaining power. Lord Denning,
M.R., appears to have	been the propounder, and perhaps the
originator - at least	 in England, of this	 theory. In
Gillespie Brothers & Co. Ltd. v. Roy Bowles Transport Ltd.,
[1973]	1 Q.B.	 400 where the question was	 whether an
indemnity clause in a	contract, on its true construction,
relieved the 362 indemnifier from liability arising to the indemnified from
his own negligence, Lord Denning said (at pages 415-6) : (Emphasis supplied.)
In the	above case the Court of Appeal negatived the defence
of the	indemnifier that the indemnity clause did not cover
the negligence	of the	indemnified. It	 was in	 Lloyds Bank
Ltd. v. Bundy, [1974] 3 All E.R. 757 that Lord Denning first
clearly enunciated his theory	of "inequality of bargaining
power". He began his discussion on this part of the case by
stating (at page 763) : (Emphasis supplied.)
He then referred to	 various categories of cases	 and
ultimately deduced therefrom a	 general principle in these
words (at page 765 ) : (Emphasis supplied.)
 Though the	 House of Lords does not yet appear to have
unanimously accepted this theory, the observations of Lord
Diplock	 in A.	 Schroeder Nusic Publishing Co. Ltd. v.
Macaulay (Formerely Instone), [1974] 1 W.L.R.	 1308 are a
clear pointer towards this direction. In that case a song
writer had entered into an agreement with a music publisher
in the standard form whereby the publishers engaged the song
writer's exclusive services	during	 the term of	 the
agreement, which was five H 364 years. Under the said agreement, the song writer assigned to
the publisher the full copyright for the whole world in his
musical compositions during the said term. By another term
of the	said agreement,	 if the	 total royalties during the
term of	 the agreement	exceeded Rs. 5,000 the agreement was
to stand automatically extended by a further period of five
years.	Under	the said agreement, the publisher could
determine the agreement at any time by one month's written
notice but no corresponding right was	 given to the	song
writer. Further, while the publisher had the right to assign
the agreement,	the song writer agreed	 not to	 assign	 his
rights without	the publisher's	 prior written	consent. The
song writer brought an action claiming, inter alia, a
declaration that the agreement was contrary to public policy
and void. Plowman, J.,	 who heard the action	granted	 the
declaration which was	 sought	 and the Court of Appeal
affirmed his judgment. An appeal filed by the publishers
against the judgment of the Court of Appeal was dismissed by
the House of Lords. The Law	Lords held that the	said
agreement was void as it was in restraint of trade and thus
contrary to public policy. In his speech Lord Diplock
however, outlined the theory of reasonableness or fairness
of a bargain. The following observations of his on this part
of the	case require to be reproduced in extenso (at pages
1315-16) : (Emphasis supplied.)
Lord Diplock then proceeded to point out that there are two
kinds of standard forms of contracts. The first is of
contracts which	 contain standard clauses which "have been
settled over the years by negotiation by representatives of
the commercial	interests involved and have	been widely
adopted because	 experience has	 shown that they facilitate
the conduct of trade".	 He then proceeded to	 state,	 "If
fairness or reasonableness	were relevant	 to their
enforceability the fact that they are widely used by parties
whose bargaining power is fairly matched would raise a
strong	presumption that their terms are	 fair	 and
reasonable." Referring to the other kind of standard form of
contract Lord Diplock said (at page 1316) : (Emphasis supplied.) 367 The observations of Lord Denning, M.R., in Levison and
another v. Patent Steam Carpet Co. Ltd., [1978] 1 Q.B. 69
are also useful and require to be quoted. These observations
are as follows (at page 79) : The Bill referred to by Lord Denning in the above
passage, when enacted, became the Unfair Contract Terms Act,
1977. This statute does not apply to all contracts but only
to certain classes of	them. It also	does not apply to
contracts entered into before the date on which it came into
force, namely,	February 1, 1978; but	subject to this it
applies to liability for any	 loss or damage which is
suffered on or after that date. It	strikes	 at clauses
excluding or restricting liability in certain	 classes of
contracts and torts and introduces in respect of clauses of
this type the test of reasonableness	and prescribes	 the
guidelines for	 determining their reasonableness.	 The
detailed provisions of this statute do not concern us but
they are worth a study. In photo Production Ltd.	v. Securicor Transport Ltd.,
[1980] A.C. 827 a case before the Unfair Contract Terms Act,
1977, was enacted, the	 House of Lords upheld an exemption
clause	in a contract	 on the defendants' printed	form
containing standard conditions. The decision	 appears to
proceed on the ground that the parties were businessmen and
did not possess unequal bargaining power. The House of Lords
did not	 in that case reject the test of reasonableness or
fairness of a clause in a contract where the parties are not
equal in bargaining position. On the contrary, the speeches
of Lord	 Wilberforce, Lord Diplock and	 Lord Scarman would
seem to	 show that the house of Lords	 in a fit case would
accept that test. Lord	 Wilberforce in	 his speech, after
referring to the Unfair Contract Terms Act, 1977, said (at
page 843) : (Emphasis supplied.)
Lord Diplock said (at page 850-51) : (Emphasis supplied.)
Lord Scarman,	 while	agreeing with	 Lord	Wilberforce,
described (at page 853) the action out of which the appeal
before the I House had arisen	 as "a	 commercial dispute
between parties well able to look after themselves" and then
added,	"In such a situation what	the parties agreed
(expressly or impliedly) is what matters; and the duty of
the courts is to construe their contract according to its
tenor." As seen above, apart from judicial decisions,	 the
United	States	and the United Kingdom have	 statutorily
recognized, at	1 least	 in certain areas of	the law of
contracts, that	 there can i be unreasonableness (or lack of
fairness, if one prefers that phrase)	 in a contract or a
clause in a contract where there is inequality of bargaining
power between	 the parties	although arising out	 of
circumstances not within their	 control or as a result of
situations not	of their creation. Other legal systems also
permit judicial	 review of a contractual transaction entered
into in similar circumstances. For example, i section 138(2) of the	German Civil Code provides that a , transaction is
void "when a person" exploits "the distressed q situation,
inexperience, lack of judgmental ability, or grave weakness
of will	 of another to	 obtain	 the grant or	 promise of
pecuniary advantages	 . .	 . which are obviously
disproportionate to the performance given in	return." The
position according to the French law is very much the same. Should then our courts not advance with	 the times?
Should they still continue to cling to outmoded concepts and
outworn ideologies? Should we	not adjust our thinking caps
to match the fashion of the day? Should all jurisprudential
development pass us by, leaving us	floundering in	 the
sloughs of nineteenth-century theories? Should the strong be
permitted to push the	weak to	 the wall? Should they be
allowed to ride roughshod over the weak? Should the courts
sit back and watch supinely while the strong trample under
foot the rights of the weak? We have a Constitution for our
country. Our judges are bound by their oath to "uphold the
Constitution and the laws". The Constitution was enacted to
secure to all the citizens of 370 this country social and economic justice. Article 14 of the
Constitution guarantees	 to all	 persons equality before the
law and the equal protection	 of the	 laws. The principle
deducible from	the above discussions on this part of the
case is	 in consonance	with right and reason,	 intended to
secure social and economic justice and conforms to	 the
mandate of the great equality clause	in Article 14. This
principle is that the courts will not enforce and will, when
called upon to do so, strike down an unfair and unreasonable
contract, or	an unfair and	 unreasonable clause in a
contract, entered into between parties who are not equal in
bargaining power. It is difficult to give an exhaustive list
of all	bargains of this type.	 No court can visualize the
different situations which can arise in the affairs of men.
One can only	attempt	 to give some	 illustrations.	 For
instance, the	 above	principle will apply	 where	 the
inequality of bargaining power	 is the	 result of the great
disparity in the economic strength	of the	 contracting
parties. It will apply where the inequality is the result of
circumstances, whether	of the	creation of the parties or
not. It	 will apply to situations in which the weaker party
is in a position in which he can obtain goods or services or
means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by	 the
stronger party	or go without them. It will also apply where
a man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to
give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line
in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules
as part	 of the	 contract, however unfair, unreasonable and
unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules
may be.	 This principle, however, will	 not apply where the
bargaining power of the contracting parties is equal or
almost equal. This principle	may not apply	 where	both
parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial
transaction. In	 today's complex world of giant corporations
with their vast infra-structural organizations and with the
State through its instrumentalities and agencies entering
into almost every branch of industry and commerce, there can
be myriad situations which result in unfair and unreasonable
bargains between parties possessing wholly disproportionate
and unequal bargaining power.	These cases can neither be
enumerated nor	fully illustrated. The court must judge each
case on its own facts and circumstances. It is not as if our civil courts have no power under
the existing law. Under section 31(1) of the Specific Relief
Act, 371 1963 (Act No. 47 of 1963), any person against whom an
instrument is void or	voidable, and	who has reasonable
apprehension that such instrument, if left outstanding, may
cause him serious injury, may sue to have it adjudged void
or voidable, and the court may in its discretion, so adjudge
it and order it to be delivered up and cancelled. B
 Is a contract of	 the type mentioned above to be
adjudged voidable or void? If	 it was induced by undue
influence, then	 under section	19A of	the Indian Contract
Act, it	 would be voidable. It	 is, however,	rarely	that
contracts of the types to which the principle formulated by
us above applies are induced by undue influence as defined
by section 16(1) of the Indian Contract Act, even though at
times they are between	 parties one of whom holds a real or
apparent authority over the other. In the vast majority of
cases, however,	 such contracts	 are entered into by	 the
weaker party under pressure of circumstances, generally
economic, which	 results in inequality of bargaining power.
Such contracts	will not fall within the four corners of the
definition of "undue influence" given	 in section 16(1) .
Further, the majority of such contracts are in a standard or
prescribed form	 or consist of a set of rules. They are not
contracts between individuals containing terms meant	 for
those individuals alone, Contracts in prescribed or standard
forms or which embody a set of rules as part of the contract
are entered into by the party with superior bargaining power
with a	large number of persons who have far less bargaining
power or no bargaining	 power at all. Such contracts which
affect a large number	of persons or a group or groups of
persons, if	 they	are unconscionable,	unfair	 and
unreasonable, are injurious to	 the public interest. To say
that such a contract is only	voidable would	be to compel
each person with whom	the party with superior bargaining
power had contracted to go to	 court to have the contract
adjudged voidable. This would only result in multiplicity of
litigation which no court should encourage and would also
not be	in the	public interest. Such a contract or such a
clause in a contract ought, therefore, to be adjudged void.
While the law of contracts in England is mostly judge-made,
the law	 of contracts in India	 is enacted in	 a statute,
namely, the Indian Contract Act, 1872 . In order that such a
contract should	 be void, it must fall under	one of	 the
relevant sections of the Indian Contract Act . The	only
relevant provision in the Indian Contract Act which	 can
apply is section 23 when it states that 372 "The consideration or object of an agreement	 is lawful,
unless . . . the court regards it as . . . Opposed to public
policy." The Indian	 Contract Act does not define the expression
"public policy" or "opposed to public policy". From the very
nature of things, the expressions "public policy", "opposed
to public policy" or	 "contrary to	public	policy"	 are
incapable of precise definition. Public policy, however, is
not the	 policy of a particular government. It connotes some
matter	which concerns	 the public good and	 the public
interest. The concept of what	is for the public good or in
the public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to
the public good or the public interest has varied from time
to time. As new concepts take the place of old, transactions
which were once considered against public policy are	 now
being upheld by the courts and similarly where there has
been a	well-recognized head of public	 policy, the courts
have not shirked from	extending it to new transactions and
changed circumstances and have	 at times not even flinched
from inventing	a new head of	public policy. There are two
schools of thought - "the narrow view" school and "the broad
view" school. According to the former, courts can not create
new heads of public policy whereas the latter countenances
judicial law-making in this area. The	 adherents of	"the
narrow view" school would not invalidate a contract on the
ground of public policy unless that particular ground had
been well-established by authorities.	Hardly ever has the
voice of the timorous spoken more clearly and loudly than in
these words of Lord	 Davey	 in Janson v.	 Uriefontein
Consolidated Mines Limited [1902] A.C. 484,	500 "Public
policy is always an unsafe and treacherous ground for legal
decision." That	 was in	 the year 1902. Seventy-eight years
earlier, & Burros, J.,	 in Richardson	v. Mellish, [1824] 2
Bing. 229, 252; s.c. 130 E.R.	 294, 303 and [1824-34] All
E.R. Reprint 258, 266,	 described public policy as "a very
unruly horse, and when	 once you get astride	it you never
know where it will carry you." The Master of the Rolls, Lord
Denning, however, was not	a-man to shy	 away	from
unmanageable horses and in words which conjure up before our
eyes the picture of the young	 Alexander the	Great taming
Bucephalus, he	said in	 Enderyby Town Football Club Ltd. v.
Football Association Ltd., [1971] Ch. 591, 606. The types	 of contracts	 to which the principle
formulated by us above	 applies are not contracts which are
tainted with illegality but are contracts which contain
terms which are so unfair and unreasonable that they shock
the conscience	of the	court. They are opposed to public
policy and require to be adjudged void. We will now test the validity of Rule 9(i) by applying
to it the principle formulated above. Each of the contesting
Respondents was in the service of the Rivers Steam
Navigation Company Limited and on the said Scheme of
arrangement being sanctioned by the Calcutta High Court, he
was offered employment in the	 Corporation which he	 had
accepted. Even	had these Respondents not liked to work for
the Corporation, they had not much of a choice because all
that they would have got wag	"all legitimate and legal
compensation payable to them either under the Industrial
Disputes Act or otherwise	legally	 admissible". These
Respondents were not covered by the Industrial Disputes Act for they were not workmen but	 were officers	of the	said
company. It is, therefore, difficult	 to visualize	what
compensation they would have been entitled to get unless
their contract	of employment with their previous employers
contained any provision in that behalf. So far as 375 the original terms of	employment with	 the Corporation are
concerned, they	 are contained in the letters of appointment
issued to the	contesting Respondents. These	 letters of
appointment are in a stereotype form. Under these letters of
appointment, the Corporation could without any previous
notice terminate their	 service, if the Corporation	 was
satisfied on medical evidence	that the employee was unfit
and was	 likely for a considerable time to continue to be
unfit for the discharge of his duties. The Corporation could
also without any previous notice dismiss either of them, if
he was	guilty of any insubordination, intemperance or other
misconduct, or	of any breach of any rules pertaining to his
service or conduct or	non-performance of his duties.	 The
above terms are followed by asset of terms under the heading
"Other Conditions". One of these terms stated that	"You
shall be subject to the service rules and	 regulations
including the conduct rules".	Undoubtedly, the contesting
Respondents accepted appointment with	the Corporation upon
these terms. They had, however, no real choice before them.
Had they not accepted	the appointments, they would have at
the highest received some compensation which would have been
probably meagre	 and would certainly have exposed themselves
to the hazard of finding another job. It was argued before us on behalf of the contesting
Respondents that the term that these	Respondents would be
subject to the service	 rules and regulations including the
conduct rules,	since it came	 under	the heading "Other
Conditions" which followed the clauses which related to the
termination of	service, referred only to service rules and
regulations other than those providing for termination of
service and, therefore, Rule 9(i) did not apply to them. It
is unnecessary	to decide this question in the view which we
are inclined to take with respect to the validity of Rule
9(i). The said Rules as	 also the earlier rules of 1970 were
accepted by the contesting Respondents without demur. Here
again they had no real choice	 before them. They had risen
higher in the hierarchy of the Corporation. If they	 had
refused to accept the said Rules, it would have resulted in
termination of	their service and the	consequent anxiety,
harassment and uncertainty	 of finding	 alternative
employment. Rule 9(i) confers upon the Corporation the power to 376 terminate the service of a permanent employee by giving him
three months' notice in writing or in lieu thereof to pay
him the	 equivalent of	three months' basic pay and dearness
allowance. A similar regulation framed by the West Bengal
State Electricity Board was described by this Court in West
Bengal State Electricity Board	 and others v. Desh Bandhu
Ghosh and others (at page 118) as
	 ". .	. a naked 'hire and fire' rule, the time for
	 banishing which altogether from employer-employee
	 relationship	is fast approaching.	 Its	only
	 parallel is to be found in the Henry VIII clause
	 so familiar to administrative lawyers." As all	lawyers may not be familiar with administrative law,
we may	as well	 explain that "the Henry VIII clause" is a
provision occasionally	 found	 in legislation conferring
delegated legislative power, giving the delegate the power
to amend the delegating Act in order to bring that Act into
full operation	 or otherwise	 by Order to	 remove	 any
difficulty, and at times giving power to	 modify	 the
provisions of other Acts also. The Committee on Ministers'
Powers in its report submitted in 1932 (Cmd. 4060) pointed
out that such a provision had been nicknamed "the Henry VIII
clause" because	 "that King is regarded popularly as	 the
impersonation of executive autocracy". m e	 Committee's
Report (at page 61) criticised these clauses as a temptation
to slipshod work in the preparation of bills and recommended
that such provisions should be used only where they were
justified before Parliament	 on compelling grounds.
Legislation enacted by Parliament in	the United Kingdom
after 1932 does not show that	 this recommendation had any
particular effect. No apter description of Rule 9(i) can be given than to
call it	 "the Henry VIII Clause". It confers	absolute and
arbitrary power upon the Corporation. It does not even state
who on	behalf of the Corporation is to exercise that power.
It was	submitted on behalf of the Appellants that it would
be the	 Board	 of Directors. me impugned	 letters of
termination, however, do not refer to	 any resolution or
decision of the Board	and even if they did, it would be
irrelevant to the validity of Rule 9(i). m	ere are no
guidelines whatever laid down to	indicate in	what
circumstances the power given by Rule 377 9(i) is	 to be	exercised by the Corporation. No opportunity
whatever of a hearing	is at all to be afforded to	 the
permanent employee whose service is being terminated in the
exercise of this power. It was urged that the Board of
Directors would	 not exercise	this power arbitrarily or
capriciously as it consists of responsible and highly placed
persons. This submission ignores the	 fact that however
highly placed a person	 may be, he must necessarily possess
human frailties. It also overlooks the well-known saying of
Lord Acton, which has	now almost become a maxim, in	 the
Appendix to his "Historical Essays and Studies", that "Power
tends to corrupt, and	absolute power corrupts absolutely."
As we have pointed out earlier, the said Rules provide for
four different	modes in which the services of a permanent
employee can be terminated earlier than his attaining the
age of	superannuation, namely,	 Rule 9(i), Rule 9(ii), sub-
clause (iv) of clause	(b) of Rule 36 read with Rule 38 and
Rule 37. Under Rule 9(ii) the termination of service is to
be on the ground of "Services	 no longer required in	 the
interest of the Company." Sub-clause (iv) of clause (b) of
Rule 36	 read with Rule 38 provides for dismissal on	 the
ground of misconduct. Rule 37 provides for termination of
service at any time without any notice if the employee is
found guilty of any of the acts mentioned in that Rule. Rule
9(i) is the only Rule which does	not state in	what
circumstances the power conferred by that Rule is to be
exercised. Thus	 even where the Corporation could proceed
under Rule 36 and dismiss an	employee on the ground of
misconduct after holding a regular disciplinary inquiry, it
is free to resort instead to Rule 9(i) in order to avoid the
hassle of an inquiry.	Rule 9(i) thus confers an absolute,
arbitrary and unguided power upon the Corporation. It
violates one of the two great rules of natural justice - the
audi alteram partem rule. It is not only in cases to which Article 14 applies that the rules of natural justice come
into play. As pointed out in Union of India etc.
v. Tulsiram Patel etc.. [1985] 3 S.C.C. 398 (at page 463),
"The principles	 of natural justice are not the creation of Article 14. Article 14 is not	 their	begetter but their
constitutional guardian." That	 case has traced in	some
detail	the origin and development	of the	 concept of
principles of natural justice and of the audi alteram partem
rule (at pages 463 - 480). They apply in diverse situations
and not	 only to cases of State action. As pointed out by 0.
Chinnappa Reddy, H 378 J., in Swadeshi Cotton	 Mills v. Union of India , [1981] 2
S.C.R. 533, 591 they are implicit in every decision-making
function, whether judicial	 or	quasi-judicial	 or
administrative. Undoubtedly, in certain circumstances	 the
principles of natural	justice	 can be modified and, in
exceptional cases, can even be excluded as pointed out in
Tulsiram Patel's case. Rule 9(i), however, is not covered by
any of	 the situations which would	 justify the total
exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule . The power	conferred by Rule 9(i) is not only arbitrary
but is also discriminatory for it enables the Corporation to
discriminate between employee and employee. It can pick up
one employee and apply	 to him clause (i) of Rule 9. It can
pick up	 another employee and apply to him clause (ii) of
Rule 9. It can pick up yet another employee and apply to him
sub-clause (iv)	 of clause (b) of Rule 36 read with Rule 38
and to	yet another employee it can apply Rule 37. All this
the Corporation	 can do when the same circumstances exist as
would justify the Corporation	in holding under Rule	38 a
regular disciplinary inquiry into the alleged misconduct of
the employee. Both the contesting Respondents had, in fact,
been asked to submit their explanation to the charges made
against them. Sengupta had been informed that a disciplinary
inquiry was proposed to be held in his case. The charges
made against	both the Respondents	 were such that a
disciplinary inquiry could easily have been held. It was,
however, not held but instead resort was had to Rule 9(i). The Corporation is a large organization. It has offices
in various parts of West Bengal, Bihar and Assam, as shown
by the	said Rules, and possibly in other States also. me
said Rules form part of the contract of employment between
the Corporation and its employees who are not workmen. These
employees had no powerful workmen's Union to support them.
They had no voice in the framing of the said rules they had
no choice but to accept the said Rules as part of their
contract of employment. m ere is gross disparity between the
Corporation and	 its employees,	 whether they be workmen or
officers. m e Corporation can afford	to dispense with the
services of an officer. It will find hundreds of others to
take his place but an officer cannot afford to lose his job
because if he does so, there	are not hundreds of	jobs
waiting for him. A clause such as clause (i) of Rule 9 is
against 379 right and reason. It is wholly unconscionable. It has been A
entered into between parties between whom there is gross
inequality of bargaining power. Rule 9(i) is term of the
contract between the Corporation and all its officers. It
affects a large number	 of persons and it squarely falls
within	the principle	 formulated by	 us above. Several
statutory authorities have a clause similar to Rule 9(i) in
their contracts	 of employment.	 As appears from the decided
cases, the West Bengal State Electricity Board and Air India
International have it. Several	 Government companies apart
from the Corporation (which is the First Appellant before
us) must be having it. There	are 970 Government companies
with paid-up capital of Rs.16,414.9 crores as stated in the
written arguments submitted on behalf of the Union of India.
The Government	 and its agencies and instrumentalities
constitute the	largest employer in the country. A clause
such as	 Rule 9(i) in a contract of employment affecting
large sections of the public is harmful and injurious to the
public interest for it tends to create a sense of insecurity
in the minds of those to whom it applies and consequently it
is against public good. Such a clause, therefore, is opposed
to public policy and being opposed to public policy, it-is
void under section 23 of the Indian Contract act. It was, however, submitted on behalf of the Appellants
that this was a contract entered into by the Corporation
like any other contract entered into by it in the course of
its trading activities and the Court, therefore, ought not
to interfere with it.	It is not possible for us to equate
employees with	goods which can be bought and	 sold. It is
equally	 not possible	for us	 to equate a	contract of
employment with a mercantile transaction	between	 two
businessmen and	 much less to do so when the contract of
employment is	between	 a powerful employer	and a	weak
employee. It was also submitted on behalf of the Appellants that
Rule 9(i) was supported by	 mutuality inasmuch as it
conferred an equal right upon both the parties, for under it
just as	 the employer could terminate the employee's service
by giving him three months' notice or by paying him three
months' basic pay and	dearness allowance in lieu thereof,
the employee could leave the service by giving three months'
notice	and when he	failed	to give such	notice,	 the
Corporation could deduct an 380 equivalent amount from whatever may be payable to him. It is
true that there is mutuality in clause 9(i)	- the	same
mutuality as in a contract between the lion	and the lamb
that both will be free to roam about in the jungle and each
will be	 at liberty to devour the other. When one considers
the unequal position of the Corporation and its employees,
the argument of mutuality becomes laughable. The contesting Respondents could, therefore, have filed
a civil suit for a declaration that the termination of their
service was contrary to law on the ground that the said Rule
9(i) was void. In such a suit, however, they would have got
a declaration and possibly damages for wrongful termination
of service but the civil court could not have ordered
reinstatement as it would have amounted to granting specific
performance of	a contract of	 personal service. As	 the
Corporation is "the State", they, therefore, adopted the far
more efficacious remedy of filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the _ Constitution. As the Corporation is "the State" within the meaning of Article 12 , it was amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the
High Court under Article 226. It is now well-established
that an	 instrumentality or agency of	the State being "the
State" under Article 12 of the Constitution is subject to
the Constitutional limitations, and its actions are State
actions and must be judged in the light of the Fundamental
Rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution (see, for
instance, Sukhdev Singh and others v. Bbagatram Sardar Singh
Raghuvanshi and another , The International Airport
Authority 's Case and Ajay Hasia's Case). The actions of an
instrumentality or agency of the State must, therefore, be
in conformity with Article 14 of the Constitution. The
progression of	the judicial concept of Article 14 from a
prohibition against discriminatory class legislation to an
invalidating factor for any discriminatory or arbitrary
State action has been	traced in Tulsiram Patel's Case (at
pages 473-476).	 The principles	 of natural justice have now
come to	 be recognized as being a part of the Constitutional
guarantee contained in Article 14. In Tulsiram Patel's Case
this Court said (at page 476) : As pointed	 out above, Rule 9(i) is both arbitrary and
unreasonable and it also wholly ignores and sets aside the
audi alteram partem rule it, therefore, violates Article 14 of the Constitution. On behalf	of the	Appellants reliance was placed upon
the case of Radhakrishna Agarwal and	others v. State of
Bihar and others , [1977] 3 S.C.R. 249. The facts in that
case were that a contract, called a "lease", to collect and
exploit Sal seeds from	 a forest area was entered	into
between the State of Bihar and the appellants in that case .
Under one of the clauses of the said contract, the rate of
royalty could be revised at the expiry of every three years
in consultation with the lessee and was to be binding on the
lessee. The State unilaterally	 revised the rate of royalty
payable by the	 appellants and thereafter cancelled	 the
lease. The Patna High	Court dismissed	 the writ petition
filed by the appellants and the appellants' appeal to this
Court was also dismissed. In that case it was held that when
a State	 acts purely in its executive capacity, it is bound
by the	 obligations which dealings	of the	 State	with
individual citizens import into every transaction entered
into in	 exercise of its constitutional powers, but this is
only at the time of entry into the field of consideration of
persons with whom the	Government could contract, and after
the 382 State or its agents have entered into the field of ordinary
contract the relations are no longer governed by	 the
constitutional provisions but by the legally valid contract
which determines rights and obligations of the parties inter
se. The court then added (at page 255) : We fail to see what relevance that decision has to the
case before us. Employees of a large organization form a
separate and distinct class and we are unable to equate a
contract of employment in a stereotype form entered into by
"The State" with each	of such	 employees with	 the "lease"
executed in Radhakrishna Agarwal's	Case. Further,	 the
contract or the lease between the parties in that case was a
legally valid contract. In that case	what the appellants
were doing was to complain of a breach of contract committed
by the	State of Bihar acting	through	 its officers.	 The
contesting Respondents	are not complaining of any breach of
contract but their contention	is that Rule 9(i) which is a
term of	 their contract	 of employment is void. They are not
complaining that the action of termination of their service
is in breach of Rule 9(i). Their complaint is not merely
with respect to the State action taken under Rule 9(i) but
also with respect to the action of the State in entering
into a	contract of employment with them which contains such
a clause or	rather	forcing	 upon them a	contract of
employment containing	such a	 clause. As we have	held
earlier, Rule 9(i) is	void even under the ordinary law of
contracts. We must now turn	to two	decisions of the Bombay High
Court as each party has relied strongly upon one of them,
namely, S.S. Muley v. J.R.D. Tata and others , [1980] Lab. &
Ind. Cases 11; s.c. [1979] 2	Ser. L.R. 438 and Manohar P.
Kharkhar and 383 another v. Raghuraj and another , [1981] 2 Lab. L.J.	 459
commonly known as the "Makalu" Case as it related to certain
cables which were damaged in an aircraft named 'Makalu'
belonging to Air India International. The	decision in Muley 's Case was relied upon by the Respondents while the
decision in Makalu's Case was relied upon by the Appellants.
Both the cases related	 to Regulation	48 of the Air India
Employees' Service Regulations framed by	 Air India
International. Air India International is a	 corporation
established under the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (Act No.27
of 1953) and it is indisputably "The	 State"	 within	 the
meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. Under Clause (a)
of the	said Regulation	 48 , the services of	a permanent
employee can be terminated "without assigning any reason" by
giving him thirty days' notice in writing or pay in lieu of
notice. In both these	cases, the services of the concerned
employees were	terminated under Regulation 48(a) . The said
Regulations also provided for	dismissal of an employee who
was found guilty of misconduct in a disciplinary inquiry
held according	to the	procedure prescribed in the	said
Regulations. In Muley 's Case a learned Single Judge of the
Bombay High Court, Sawant, J., held the said Regulation
48(a) to be	void as infringing Article	 14 of	 the
Constitution. In West Bengal State Electricity Board 's Case
this Court stated (at	page 119), "The learned Judge struck
down Regulation	 48(a) and we agree with his reasoning and
conclusion." The reasoning upon which Sawant,	 J., reached
his conclusion was that there was no guidance given anywhere
in the	impugned Regulation for the exercise of the power
conferred by it, that	it placed untrammelled power in the
hands of the authorities, that it was an arbitrary power
which was conferred and it did not make any difference that
it was	to be exercised by high ranking officials. In the
Makalu Case a contrary view was taken by a Division Bench of
the Bombay High Court. The Division Bench rightly held that
the employees of a statutory corporation did not enjoy the
protection conferred by Article 311(2). It, however, further
held that the phrase "without assigning any reason" used in
the said Regulation 48 only meant a	 disclosure of	 the
reasons to the employee concerned. After going into	 the
facts which had been pleaded by Air India International to
justify the termination of the service of the petitioners in
that case, the Division Bench held that the impugned orders
were justified. It further held that Regulation 48 was not a
one-sided regulation since under Regulation 49 the employee
was also permitted to resign 384 without assigning any reason by giving the notice prescribed
therein. The Division Bench applied to the said Regulation
48 the	analogy of the ordinary law of master and servant
under which no servant can claim any security of tenure. It
also brought in it the analogy of the right to compulsorily
retire an employee where a provision in that behalf is made
in the	Service Rules.	The Division Bench further held that
it was	difficult to conceive of any authority, which was
"the State" under Article 12 of the Constitution and bound
by the	constitutional guarantees contained in	 Part III of
the Constitution, terminating the services of its employees
without reason	or arbitrarily.	 It further held that	 the
existence of relevant	reasons	 was a	 sine qua non	 for
exercising the	power under Regulation 48 . It went on to
state	that because	 of the complexity	 of modern
administration and the unpredictable exigencies which	 may
arise in the course thereof,	 it was necessary for an
employer to be vested with powers such as those conferred by Regulation 48 .	The Division Bench took great pains to
discern in some of the sections of the Air Corporations Act guidelines for	the exercise of the	power conferred by Regulation 48 .	According to the Division Bench, the choice
of Air	India International to proceed	 under Regulation 48 would have to be dictated for the purpose of the needs and
exigencies of its administration and	if that power	 was
exercised arbitrarily,	the court would strike down	 the
action taken under Regulation 48 . We were invited by Learned Counsel for the Appellants
to peruse the judgment	 in that case and we did so	with
increasing astonishment. Though the said judgment bears the
date September	18, 1981, we were unable to make out whether
it was a judgment given in the year 1981 or in the year 1881
or even	 earlier. We find ourselves wholly unable to agree
with the view taken by the Division Bench. Apart from the
factual aspects	 of the case, as to which we say nothing, we
find every single conclusion reached by the Division Bench
and the	 reasons given	in support thereof to be wholly
erroneous. The	Division Bench	overlooked that	 it was	 not
dealing with a case of a non-speaking order	but with the
validity of a regulation. The meaning	 given by it to the
expression "without assigning any reason" was wrong	 and
untenable. Starting with this	wrong premise,	it has	gone
from one wrong premise	 to another. In the light of what we
have said earlier about the principles of 385 public policy evolved, and tested by the principle which we
have formulated, the said Regulation 48(a) could never have
been sustained.	 In West Bengal State	Electricity Board's
Case, a	 three-Judge Bench of this Court said as follows (at
page 119) : The mention of the Delhi High Court in the above passage is
a slip	of the	pen, for it was the Bombay High Court which
decided the case. We are in respectful agreement with what
has been stated in the above	passage. The Makalu Case was
wrongly decided	 and requires	to be	overruled. We	are,
however, informed that an appeal against that judgment is
pending in this Court	and rather than overrule it here, we
leave it to the Bench which hears that appeal to reverse it. We would like to observe here that as the definition of
"the State" in Article	 12 is for the purposes of both Part
III and Part	 IV of	 the Constitution, State actions,
including actions of the instrumentalities and agencies of
the State, must not	 only be in conformity with	 the
Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Part III but must also be
in accordance with the Directive Principles of State Policy
prescribed by Part IV.	 Clause (a) of Article	 39 provides
that the State shall,	in particular,	 direct	 its policy
towards "securing that the citizens, men and women, equally
have the right to adequate means of livelihood." Article 41 requires the State, within the limits of its economic
capacity and development, to "make effective provision for
securing the right to work". An adequate means of livelihood
cannot be secured to the citizens by taking away without any
reason the means of livelihood. The 386 mode of	 making "effective provision for securing the right
to work" cannot be by giving employment to a person and then
without any reason throwing him out	of employment.	 The
action of an instrumentality or agency of the State, if it
frames a service rule such as clause (a) of Rule 9 or a rule
analogous thereto would, therefore, not only be violative of Article 14 but would also be	contrary to the Directive
Principles of State Policy contained	 in clause (a) of Article 39 and in Article 41. The Calcutta High Court	 was, therefore, right in
quashing the impugned	 orders	 dated	February 26, 1983,
terminating the	 services of the contesting Respondents and
directing the Corporation to reinstate them and to pay them
all arrears of salary.	 The High Court was, however,	 not
right in declaring clause (i) of Rule 9 in its entirety as
ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution and in striking
down as	 being void the whole	of that clause. What	 the
Calcutta High Court overlooked was that Rule 9 also confers
upon a	permanent employee the right to resign from	 the
service of the Corporation. By entering into a contract of
employment a person does not sign a bond of slavery and a
permanent employee can not be deprived of his right to
resign.	 A resignation by an employee would, however,
normally require to be accepted by the employer in order to
be effective. It can be that	in certain circumstances an
employer would	be justified in refusing to	 accept	 the
employee's resignation	as, for	 instance, when	 an employee
wants to leave in the middle	of a work which is urgent or
important and for the	completion of which his presence and
participation are necessary. An employer can also refuse to
accept the resignation when there is a disciplinary inquiry
pending against	 the employee.	In such a case, to permit an
employee to resign would be to allow him to go away from the
service and escape the	 consequences of an adverse finding
against him in such an inquiry. There can also be other
grounds on which an employer would be justified in	 not
accepting the resignation of an employee. The Corporation
ought to make suitable provisions in that behalf in the said
Rules. Therefore, while the judgment	of the	 High Court
requires to be	 confirmed, the declaration given by it
requires to be suitably modified. In	 the result,	both these Appeals fail and	 are
dismissed but the order passed by the Calcutta High Court is
modified by 387 substituting for the declaration given by it a declaration
that clause (i) of Rule 9 of the "Service, Discipline &
Appeal Rules - 1979" of the Central Inland Water Transport
Corporation Limited is void under section 23 of the Indian
Contract Act, 1872, as being opposed to public policy and is
also ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution to	 the
extent that it confers	 upon the Corporation the right to
terminate the employment of a permanent employee by giving
him three months' notice in writing or by paying him the
equivalent of three months' basic pay and dearness allowance
in lieu of such notice. By interim	 orders passed	in the Petitions for Special
Leave to Appeal filed	by the	Corporation, we	 had granted
pending the disposal of those Petitions a stay of the order
of the	Calcutta High Court in	 so far	 as it	directed the
reinstatement of the contesting Respondents. At that stage
the Corporation had	undertaken to	 pay to the	said
Respondents all arrears of salary and had also undertaken to
pay thereafter	their salary from month to month before the
tenth day of each succeeding month until the disposal of the
said Petitions. We hereby	vacate	the stay order of
reinstatement passed by us and direct the	 Corporation
forthwith to reinstate the First Respondent in each of these
Appeals and to pay to him within six weeks from today all
arrears of salary and	allowances payable to him, if	 any
still unpaid. The First	Appellant in both these Appeals, namely, the
Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited, will pay
to the	First Respondent in each of these Appeals the costs
of the	respective Appeals. The other parties to these
Appeals and the Intervener will bear and pay their own costs
of the Appeals.