आयकर अपील य अ धकरण, चंडीगढ़ यायपीठ - चंडीगढ़। PER BENCH: This is a bunch of nine appeals filed by four assessees
against common order of the ld.CIT(A)-3, Gurgaon dated 31.3.2018. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 2 2. It is pertinent to note that the ld.CIT(A) has decided eighteen
appeals by the impugned order in the following cases: Asstt.Year 2008-09, 2010-11, 2011-12 to 2014-15 iii) Shri Aniket Singhal
 Asstt.Year 2013-14 & 2014-15 iv) Shri Sanjay Singhal (HUF)
 Asstt.Year 2011-12 to 2014-15 3. Though we will refer the facts in detail, but at this stage, it is
important to note that search under section 132(1) of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 was carried out by the Department at the business premises of
the assessee-group i.e. Bhusan Power & Steel Group ("BSPL" for short)
along with residential/ business premises of its directors and other
related entities/ persons on 3.3.2010 and 21.2.2014 for A.Y.2014-15.
The second proviso to section 153A contemplates that assessment or
reassessment, if any, relating to any assessment year falling within the
period of six assessment years referred to in this section i.e. section
153A(1) pending on the date of initiation of search under section 132 or
making of requisition under section 132A as the case may be, shall
abate. It is further observed that apart from present nine appeals, eight
more appeals i.e. ITA Nos.706, 707, 709/Chd/2018 filed by Shri sanjay
Singhal for the Asstt.Year 2008-09, 2010-11, 2012-13; and ITA No.712,
713 & 715/Chd/2018 also filed by Smt.Aarti Singhal for the Asstt.Year
2008-09, 2010-11, 2012-13. Similarly, the assessee, Shri Sanjay Singhal
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 3 HUF has also filed appeals against reopening of the assessment in the
Asstt.Year 2011-12 and 2013-14. 4. These appeals pertain to unabated years i.e. in these years
assessment/reassessment were not pending on the date of search.
Similarly, in the case of Shri Sanjay Singhal HUF assessments were
reopened. Therefore, for the facility of adjudication, the Tribunal has
segregated these appeals from the present-one, and decided the appeals
of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Smt.Aarti Snghal vide order dated 7.2.2020.
Similarly, in the case of Shri Sanjay Singhal HUF were decided on
19.6.2020. The Department had filed Misc.Application in all these
appeals, which also stands dismissed by the Tribunal. Thus, out of 18
appeals decided by the ld.first appellate authority by the common order,
eight appeals were decided by the Tribunal. 5. Adverting back to the facts of the present appeals, we find that all
the appellants have taken almost identically worded grounds of appeal
except variation in the quantum of amounts mentioned in those grounds.
It is also worth to note that at the time of hearing, the ld.counsel for the
assessee has filed gist of arguments along with detailed arguments in a
compilation, running into 17 pages dated 18.6.2021. He has tabulated
the amounts in dispute in each appeal exhibiting as to how the grounds
are common. Therefore for the facility of reference, we take note
grounds of appeal from ITA No.708/Chd/2018 for the Asstt.Yar 2011-12
in the case of Shri Sanjay Singhal, and thereafter, we take note of details
of addition compiled in the tabulated form by the ld.counsel for the
assessee. They read as under: ADDITIONS: 6.5% of LTCG u/s 69C towards alleged 35,337,680 5,517,492 38,128,964 78,984,136
commission expenses

Sub-total - SS - (A) 596,547,700 98,434,105 636,728,415 1,331,710,220

Smt. Aarti Singal

Particulars A.Y. 2011-12 A.Y. 2013-14 A.Y. 2014-15 Total

Total Sale proceeds u/s 68 835,373,595 130 ,872,875 637,938,975 1 ,604, 185 ,445

(on a/c of alleged bogus LTCG}

6.5% of LTCG u/s 69C towards alleged

commission expenses 52,579,573 7,813,248 40,568,540 100,961,361

Sub-total - ARS - (B) 887,953,168 138,686,123 678,507,515 1,705,146,806

Aniket Singal

Particulars A.Y. 2011- A.Y. 2013-14 A.Y. 2014-15 Total 12 Total Sale proceeds u/s 68 (on a/c of alleged - 466,845,231 1,162,207,39 1,629,052,628
bogus LTCG)
6.5% of LTCG u/s 69C towards alleged 29,954,940. 7 73,668,055 103,622,995
commission expenses

Sub-total -ANS-(C) - 496,800,171 1,235,875,452 1,732,675,623

Particulars A.Y. 2011-12 A.Y. 2013-14 A.Y. 2014-15 Total

Total Sale proceeds u/s 68 (on a/c of alleged NA NA NA NA 581,711,166 581,711,166
bogus LTCG)
6.5% of LTCG u/s 69C towards alleged
commission expenses 36,933,225 36,933,225

Sub-total -SS(HUF)-(D) 618,644,391 618,644,391
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 6 6. Before we advert to the grounds of appeal taken by the appellants,
it is pertinent to note that the Department has filed an application under
Rule 29 of the Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963 under the
signature of Shri G.C. Srivastava, Special Counsel for the Revenue. The
application read as under: May it please your Honours,

 Based on certain information received from CBT, the Directorate of
 Enforcement (ED) has conducted detailed enquiries, in the cases of the
 assesses whose appeals are pending before Hon'ble ITAT as mentioned
 above, under Prevention of Money Laundering Act , and has filed criminal
 charges against members of the group. During such investigations,
 statements of all those agencies/entities who were involved in providing
 bogus Long Term Capital Gains to the assesses, including the statement of
 Sri Sanjay Singhal, were recorded. The copies of such statements are made
 available to the Assessing Officer now, I have been instructed to file copies
 of these statements and other documents before your Honours as additional
 evidence with a prayer for the admission of the same. A brief submission on the reasons for filing the additional evidence and their
 relevance to the present case is as under: In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 8 6. Nonetheless, these pieces of evidence have a direct bearing on the merits
 of the case as these relate to those very issues which are the subject matter of
 present appeals. 7. The list of documents prayed for admission as additional evidence is
 contained in a separate Annexure/Paper-book (68 Pages). It is, therefore prayed that these documents may kindly be admitted as
 additional evidence in the aforesaid cases, and these may be considered at
 the time of hearing of the appeals on merits. This is being filed in digital
 mode and physical copy would also be made available if required. Revenue shall be obliged for the act of kindness. Thanking Your Honours
 Sd/- (G.C. Srivastava)
 Advocate
 Special Counsel for Revenue...." 7. Qua this application, we have heard the ld.senior counsel for the
Revenue as well as the ld.counsel for the assessee. It is pertinent to note
here that hearings of these appeals were commenced on 21.6.2021. The
ld.counsel for the assessee has concluded his arguments on 21.6.2021.
After conclusion of the arguments of the ld.counsel for the assessee, the
ld.senior counsel for the Revenue brought to our notice an application of
the department for admission of additional evidence. The ld.counsel for
the assessee raised a strong objection about admission of this additional
evidence. The stand of the ld.counsel for the assessee is that the issues
involved in these appeals are directly covered by orders of the ITAT in
the case of other family members i.e. father of Shri Sanjay Singhal
(appellant no.1). The department has filed an application before the
Hon'ble President, ITAT under section 255(3) of the Income Tax Act,
1961 for constitution of a Special Bench in the aforesaid matter, and the
Hon'ble President has called for comments of the Bench. After the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 9 comments of the Bench, the Hon'ble President has heard both the
parties, and thereafter declined the prayer of the Revenue for
constitution of a Special Bench. He alleged that in order to create a
distinction between the cases already decided vis-à-vis the present
appellant, the Revenue has filed an application dated 7.6.2021 for
permission to admit additional evidence. Hearing was fixed on 8.6.2021
before the Hon'ble President. According to ld.counsel for the assessee,
this was an effort before Hon'ble President to accept a disparity on facts
and, therefore, these appeals be referred to Special Bench, but Hon'ble
President rejected such effort. In support of its application, the Revenue
has pleaded that Income Tax Department has carried out search
operation at the premises of brokers, Shri RK Kedia and Shri Shrish
Shah and their statements were recorded under section 132(4) of the Act
which have been used by the Revenue, while denying claim of the
assessee for the long term capital gain. Simultaneously, CBI has
registered case as well as the ED has recorded statement of Shri RK
Kedia under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,
2002 ("PMLA"). Therefore, it is necessary to take on record disclosure
made by the persons before the ED and other prosecuting agencies.
With regard to the position whether the Revenue can produce additional
evidence at the second appellate stage, more so, in the capacity of a
respondent, he relied upon the decision of Special Bench in the case of
LG Electronics India P.Ltd. in ITA No.5140/Del/2011. He also relied
upon the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Jyotsna Suri
Vs. ITAT & Ors., 9 SCC 211. He further relied upon judgment of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of HL Malhotra Vs. DCIT, ITA
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 10 No.211/2020 dated 22.12.2020. He placed on record copies of these
decisions. 8. Since interlocutory application was pressed after conclusion of the
arguments of the ld.cousnel for the assessee, therefore, at the time of
hearing we permitted both the parties to give their submissions in
writing on the admission of additional evidence as well as consideration
of them on merit after admitting, if taken on record. In other words, we
have invited the arguments of the ld.counsel for the assessee as well as
Revenue on merit of this material, but subject to condition that in case
application of the Revenue for admission of additional evidence is
rejected, then no such submissions would be considered. Thereafter,
after conclusion of hearing an opportunity was provided to both the sides
to file written submissions and ld.counsel for the Revenue filed written
submission dated 29.6.2021, and the ld.counsel for the assessee has filed
written submissions on 2.7.2021. Since we have taken cognizance of the
Revenue's application in verbatim, we therefore deem it appropriate to
take of objections filed by the assessee as well. The objection reads as
under: [Emphasis Supplied] 12. In the present Appeals the A.O. has already relied on certain evidences
obtained from third parties (in the nature of statements and/or documents) -
the reliance upon which the Appellants have argued cannot be made for the
purpose of a 143(3') assessment since the same had not been put to them per
the statutory procedure prescribed under Sec.l42(2). Now, by way of this
present Application, the Special Counsel has attempted to bring on record
further material that has remained untested on the anvil of Sec. 142(3) by
seeking to equate the statements recorded by the ED under the PMLA, 2002
as additional evidence that can also be validly utilised for the purpose of
sustaining an addition that has already been made under the Income Tax Act In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 15 by the A.O, on the basis of separate third party material/statements, without
subjecting such the latter to the rigours of Sec. 142 . In other words, it is already the Appellants' case that the initial third party
material/statements that the A.O. has relied upon to make the impugned
assessment orders u/s 153A / 143(3) -has not been subject to the procedure of
enquiry prescribed u/s 142 of the Act, since the A.O. has sought to utilise
those solely on 'borrowed satisfaction' to make the assessment us/ I43(3)/l
53A. Now, in a further attempt at deviating the procedural fetters prescribed u/s 142 , the Special Counsel has filed such additional evidence, by
completely ignoring that the very same rigours of Sec. 142 will also apply to
such additional evidence that has been recorded by a separate governmental
department (the ED) under a separate Statute (the PMLA). 13. The Appellants thus submit that without fulfilling the mandate of Sec.
142 , the evidence cannot be considered as admissible evidence on record, in
order to fasten liability unto the assessee u/s 143(3) . This is more so because
the additional evidence seeking to be admitted vide the present Applications
are statements that have all be recorded u/s 50 of the PMLA, 2002 post the
completion/finalisation of the search assessments u/s 153A / 143(3) in the case
of all the Appellants, that were assessed to tax vide the impugned assessment
orders (all) dated 28.03.2016. Thus when the additional evidence, especially
the statements of Sanjay Singhal specified therein (that have been recorded
on 07.10.2016 and 03.10.2019 by the ED) have all been recorded post the
finalisation of the search assessments in the case of all the Appellants - then
such evidence that was not on the record of the A.O. during the course of the
search assessments, cannot now be utilised as admissible evidence in order
to fasten liability against the Appellants under the Income Tax Act ,
especially since such material that has been recorded post the completion of
the search, cannot possibly be subject to the rigours of Sec.142 of the Act. In other words, statements that have been recorded by the ED under the
PMLA, cannot be utilised in the form of evidence for the purpose of the Income Tax Act at the stage of the appellate authority (i.e., the ITAT) unless
the same had passed through the fetters of Sec.142 at the time of the search
assessment, which it hasn't and now cannot. In support reliance is craved on
the decision ofR.K. Sayal (2000) 113 Taxman 40 (Chandigarh) (Mag.), ITA T
Chandigarh) that has clearly held that evidence collected post the
completion of the block assessment cannot be admitted under Rule 29, for the
following reasons: 14. The Appellants further submit that the decisions relied upon by the DR to
admit such additional evidence at this stage of the proceedings can be
distinguished (as done in the paragraphs below) and thus do not support the
case of the Department: Thus this Application has been filed, after assessing the line of
 argument sought to be taken by the Appellants, in an attempt to better
 the Department's case by now utilising evidences recorded under a
 different Statute to prejudice the Bench into sustain additions made
 under the Income Tax Act . The reliance on such additional evidence
 was imperative to the case of the Special Counsel, who at the time of
 the hearing had also based his final arguments primarily on the
 contents of this additional evidence. 15. On the utilisation of statements recorded under Sec.50(2) of the PMLA,
2002 in a proceedings initiated under the Income Tax Act, 1961 , the
Appellants further submit that the same is also impermissible in light of Sec.71 of the PMLA, which states that the PMLA as a Statute operates as a
self-contained code and a stand-alone law. Therefore statements recorded u/s 50(2) of the PMLA have direct admissibility as evidence only vis-a-vis the
provisions of the PMLA. The same can in no manner be extended to be
considered as admissible evidence under the Income Tax Act , by bypassing
the mandate of Sec.142 that encompasses the Principles of Natural Justice. 16. It is also submitted that Sec.65 of the PMLA, 2002 states that the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 ( CrPC ) shall apply in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the PMLA vis-a-vis
arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation and
prosecution and all other proceedings under the Act. 17. Thus even if a statement recorded u/s 50 of the PMLA is not equated to a
statement recorded under Sec. 161 r/w 162 of the CrPC , it is obvious that in
order to sustain a conviction under the PMLA a criminal trial ensues to
prosecute the accused. This is in line with the protection awarded to an
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 18 individual under Art.20 in respect of the conviction of offences, where Art.20(3) specifies that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled
to be a witness against himself. Thus a mere statement recorded u/s 50(2) of the PMLA is not 'evidence* in
itself even for the purpose of prosecuting the accused under the PMLA, let
alone under the Income Tax Act , that has its own separate procedure in
place for collecting and admitting evidence u/s 142 before the same can be
adduced and utilised by the A.O. to make an impugned addition u/s 143(3) of
the Act. 18. Further, as per the decision of the Hon'ble S.C. in the case of KTMS
Mohamed & Ors. vs. UOI , (1992) 3 SCC178, the Hon'ble S.C. has clearly
held that statements recorded by the ED cannot be termed to be statements
that are recorded during the course of a judicial proceedings to enable their
utilisation in Income Tax Act proceedings. This is because the statements
recorded by the ED do not have the procedural safeguards that exist under
the CrPC when the statement is recorded before a Magistrate. Thus any
confession made before the ED cannot be suo motu considered as evidence
to fasten liability under the Income Tax Act , especially when such statements
have been retracted. The relevant excerpts of the said decision are quoted
hereunder: [Emphasis Supplied] 19. The Appellants submit that the case of KTMS Mohamed & Ors. (supra)
has direct applicability to the case at hand, more so because the statement of
Sanjay Singhal that had been recorded by the E.D. has been retracted by
him, vide Retraction Letter dated 20.12.2019 from Tihar Jail. In the said
statement, Sh. Sanjay Singhal has emphasised that he was pressurised by the
ED officers, and was given no such opportunity to read and/or understand
the papers signed and/or statements recorded and signed, all of which was
taken under the threat and pressure of arrest. In fact, Sh. Sanjay Singhal also
states that when he refused to sign any further documents/statements, they
arrested him on 22.11.2019. He has also emphasised on the pressure and
trauma of the entire incidence. This retraction has not been brought to the notice of this Hon'ble Bench by
the Department while making the present Application for admission of the
statements of Sanjay Singhal as additional evidence. As held in the decision
of KTMS Mohamed & Ors. (supra), inculpatory statements that have been
subsequently repudiated cannot be utilised across different proceedings
emanating under different Statutes. The Hon'ble S.C. has also held that a
statement that has been subsequently retracted cannot be utilised in its
original form, by giving a go by to the retraction brought on record.
Therefore the very reliance on the statements of Sanjay Singhal as 'evidence'
in itself, let also as admissible additional evidence before this Hon'ble
Tribunal for the purpose of sustaining an addition made under the Income
Tax Act, 1961 -- is impermissible in law. 20. For the aforesaid reasons, the Appellants pray that the present
Application for the admission of additional evidence may be pleased to be
rejected by this Hon'ble Bench for being bereft of jurisdiction, and even
otherwise, bereft of any merits in support of their admissibility under law." In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 20 9. We have duly considered rival submissions and gone through the
record carefully. Rule 29 of the Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules,
1963 has direct bearing on the controversy, therefore, it is imperative
upon us to take note of this Rule as under: 10. A perusal of the above rule would indicate that parties of the
appeal i.e. either appellant or respondents are not entitled to produce
additional evidence either oral or documentary before the Tribunal.
However, in case any evidence is required by the Tribunal, in the interest
of justice, then such opportunity could be given to the parties. In other
words, for just decision of any appeal, if some material is required by the
Tribunal, then that material could be taken up on the record. As
observed by the Special Bench of ITAT in the case of LG Electronics (supra) additional evidence can be permitted if the evidence does not
raise any new area of dispute, if the evidence has relevance to the issue.
A perusal of the application filed by the Revenue would reveal that the
Revenue intends to place on record copies of the statement recorded by
the ED i.e. including the statement of the assessee as well as Shri R.K.
Kedia, Praveen Kumar Jain and Shri Sirish Chandrakant Shah. We have
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 21 taken into consideration the material sought to be placed on record by
the Revenue vis-à-vis scope of Rule 29 of the ITAT Rules. It is
pertinent to observe that the Income Tax Act provides a complete frame
work for scrutinising the return and passing assessment order. The Act itself contemplates certain safeguards for protecting rights of the
assessee i.e. return could be scrutinized within the time frame by
issuance of notice under section 143(2) of the Act. If the time limit is
expired, then only on the basis of new information comes to the
possession of the AO that income has escaped, he could reopen the
assessment by issuance of notice under section 148 of the Act.
Similarly, during the course of assessment proceedings, section 142 of
the Act contemplates power of the AO for collecting the information and
other material from the assessee. In the present appeals, assessments
were framed long back; appeals were pending in the Tribunal since
2018. Evidence was alleged to be placed on record were statements
recorded way back in 2016 and 2019. By placing such statement on
record, a new line of discovery of facts required to be unearthed. All
these persons would be required to be called upon and cross-examination
is required to be made. It is also pertinent to note that these are the
statements recorded under PMLA after conclusion of the assessment
order. They cannot be brought on record to fulfill any lacunae, if any,
left in the assessment order. Special Bench of the ITAT in the case of LG Electronics (supra) has observed that evidence would have direct
bearing, and did not raise any area of new dispute. These statements
themselves have been recorded after finalisation of the assessment order.
They would open up a new set of inquiry. In other words, an attempt is
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 22 being made indirectly to bring some material in order to improve the
case of revenue which cannot be done directly. Even otherwise, the
criminal trials in pursuance of those statements have yet to be finalized.
It is also pertinent to note that no appeal is being provided against the
assessment to the Revenue. The right of appeal has been provided to the
assessee only. Now, an attempt is being made by the ld.counsel for the
Revenue to improve the assessment order by bringing on record new set
of evidence which will open a new set of inquiry. If these evidences are
taken into account, the matter has to be remitted back to the AO and the
AO would be directed to consider materials afresh which could never
have been considered under the scope of block assessment under section
153A of the Act. The ld.AO will get new extended limitation which
otherwise is not available to him. As observed earlier, these statements
were recorded by the Investigating agencies. Their reliability or
admissibility has to be determined by judicial adjudicating body. The
process has not been completed with regard to the statement sought to be
placed on record. Therefore, the Tribunal does not feel, in any manner
that these are the materials, which should have been placed on record for
just decision of the appeals, rather we are of firm view that permitting to
place on record such material would cause prejudice to the assessee. As
far as case law relied upon by the ld.counsel for the Revenue is
concerned, they only postulate that ITAT has the power to permit
Revenue to produce additional evidence in the capacity of respondent
also. There is no dispute with regard to the above proposition. In given
case Tribunal can feel that certain details possessed by the Revenue are
necessary for just decision of the appeal then, it can direct the Revenue
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 23 for production of those details. Thus, these cases are not applicable on
the facts of the present appeals. It is also pertinent to mention that the
assessee has duly demonstrated in the reply extracted above as to why
these evidences should not be taken on record. We have gone through
the reply and emphasizing more particularly on para no.15 to 18
demonstrating the eventual value of these statement. We are satisfied
that by way of this application a fatuous attempt is being made to create
artificial distinction between these appeals vis-s-vis the earlier orders of
the ITAT on the same point. In substance these are not the evidence
required by the ITAT for just decision of the appeals. In view of the
above discussion, the application of the Revenue is rejected. Now we take the appeals for adjudication: 11. For the facility of reference, we are taking the facts from the
appeal of Shri Sanjay Singal mainly and any variation on facts would
come to our notice, we will note them. The assessee in the present case
is an individual and a key person of the group known as BSPL Group.
The brief facts as alleged by the Revenue are as under: 12. There were search and survey operations under section 132 / 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 was carried out at the office premises of
Shri Shrish Chandrakant Shah (for short SCS) located at different places
and the parties/ entities connected to him dated 9th April 2013 by the
Directorate of Investigation, Ahmedabad Income Tax. During the search
and survey proceedings, various documents were found. Statements of
Shri SCS and other persons connected to him (Shri SCS) were recorded
under section 132(4) , 131(IA) of the Act. Based on the above, it was
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 24 revealed to the AO that Shri SCS is engaged in the activity of providing
accommodation entries in the form of share capital, share premium,
unsecured loan and long-term capital gain against the payment of
commission. For this purpose, SCS was controlling and managing 212
companies used for layering the funds including the company namely
M/s PIL which was also subject to search operation. It was also
discovered during the search that Shri SCS has generated long-term
capital gain of Rs. 560 crores using the shares of PIL by way of
accommodation entries. One of the beneficiaries of bogus long term
capital was the group of the assessee of such bogus LTCG. The names of
persons of BSPL group being the beneficiaries of LTCG are as under: 13. The assessee group has purchased the shares of PIL on preferential
allotment basis in the year 2008 dated 04-08-2008 @ 2.25 per share
having face value of Rs. 1 per share and premium of Rs. 1.25 per share.
These shares were sold in the year 2010-11 and 2011-12 at an average
price of Rs. 65 per share. Thus it was alleged that Shri SCS has
converted the unaccounted money of various parties/beneficiaries by
providing long-term capital gain to them which was exempted under section 10(38) of the Act by manipulating in the price of the shares of
PIL. All these facts narrated above were duly admitted by Shri SCS in
the statement furnished under section 132(4) / 131-IA of the Act which
was recorded at different point of time. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 25 14. The statement of Shri Om Prakash Anandilal Khandewal (OPK),
the director of PIL, was also recorded under section 132(4) of the Act
wherein he had admitted that PIL was a paper company, having no
business and was used by Shri SCS for generating bogus long-term
capital gain to extend the benefit to the parties. The statement of Shri
OPK was also confirmed by Shri SCS. 15. In the course of search at the premise of SCS, among other
documents, two documents in the form of MS Excel file namely CASH
& CHEQUE SHEET and KEDIA-2 were found. CASH & CHEQUE SHEET 16. The cash & cheque sheet contains date-wise details of receipts of
cash from the beneficiaries and cheque payment of accommodation
entries to them in coded-form. There was also the name of cash courier
(Aangdia) in the remark column by whom Shri SCS received the cash
amount. The name of the assessee and his associates was also appearing
in this sheet in coded form. 17. Against the receipt of cash from the assessee, the name of cash
courier (Aangdia), Shri Pintu alias Chintan (Praveen Kumar Jain) was
appearing. This fact was also corroborated in the independent search and
seizure operation carried out under section 132 of the Act by the
Directorate of Investigation, Mumbai in case of Shri Praveen Kumar
Jain. During search, the books and other records were found and
impounded. On comparison of these impounded documents with the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 26 cash and cheque sheet maintained by SCS, it was noticed by the AO that
the entries of the assessee group were matching. Shri Praveen Kumar
Jain in his statement admitted to have received the cash from Shri RK
Kedia who is the broker of the assessee on behalf of Shri SCS. KEDIA-2 18. Likewise, a MS Excel file recovered from the computer of SCS.
The name of the MS excel file was "New Account". The MS excel file
was containing the details of the different brokers through whom Shri
SCS has provided bogus long-term capital gain to the beneficiaries. One
of the excel sheet of MS excel file was containing the name 'Kedia-2'
which was related to a broker namely RK Kedia based in Delhi. This
sheet contains the details as given under: 19. On verification by the Directorate of Investigation team from BSE
about the trading of PIL shares, it was found that these shares of PIL, as
recorded in the excel sheet discussed above were exactly sold by the
assessee and its group members to the companies controlled and
managed by Shri SCS. The impugned sheet revealed the receipt of cash
of Rs.129 crores and cheque payment of Rs.165.1 crores by SCS to the
assessee for providing accommodation entries by way of long-term
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 27 capital gain. Shri SCS for this transaction has charged a commission of
Rs.3.81 crores along with Aangadia charges of Rs.9,02,250/- only.
When confronted, Shri SCS also admitted that he has provided
accommodation entries in the name of long-term capital gain to the
group of the assessee through the broker, Shri RK Kedia. 20. Further, receipts of cash recorded in kedia-2 sheet were also
matching with the books/ records maintained by Shri Parveen Kumar
Jain alias Pintu which were impounded by the Directorate of
investigation of Mumbai as mentioned in previous paragraph. 21. Similarly, a search and seizure operation under section 132 of the
Act subsequently and simultaneously was carried out at the premises of
the assessee group and Shri RK Kedia dated 21st February 2014 by the
Directorate of Chandigarh. In the search proceedings at the premises of
the assessee, various loose papers were found and impounded which
were incriminating in nature. The assessee was also confronted with the
statements of various persons recorded under section 132(4) / 131-1A of
the Act along with the documents found during the search in the case of
Shri SCS and Praveen Kumar Jain. The statement under section 132(4) of the Act was also recorded of the assessee wherein he admitted to
disclose additional income of Rs. 250 crores on account of bogus long-
term capital gain through the sale of PIL shares. 22. Subsequently, one more search and seizure operation under section
132 of the Act dated 13 June 2014 was also carried out by the
Directorate of Investigation, Delhi in the case of Shri RK Kedia, a
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 28 broker wherein it was admitted that he has arranged the bogus long-term
capital gain on the request of the assessee. For this purpose, Shri RK
Kedia used to receive cash from the office of the assessee through Shri
Alkesh Sharma and Suresh Gupta, employees of the BSPL group.
Likewise, in the course of search and seizure operation, certain loose
papers of incriminating nature were found which were named as Extract
E-14 Annexure A 27. The relevant page bearing No. 64 to 70 of such
seized documents contained details of the sale, purchase of shares and
receipts and payment of cash representing bogus transactions carried out
by the assessee and the same were matching with the records of Kedia-2
sheet, and records maintained by Shri Praveen Kumar Jain. 23. In addition to the above, there were many other incriminating
documents found during the course of search under section 132 of the
Act at the premises of Shri RK Kedia dated 13th June 2014. These
incriminating documents were maintained in the excel sheets, books of
accounts and tally software in coded form. All these documents were
under the custody of Shri Manish Arora an accountant and employee of
Shri RK Kedia. On being questioned, Shri Manish Arora admitted on
oath that all the seized documents related to the accommodation entry
business of Shri RK Kedia through various companies. This fact was
also admitted by Shri RK Kedia in the statement furnished under section
132(4) of the Act. As per Shri RK Kedia, these companies were
controlled and managed by various accommodation entry operators and
these were only paper companies which were not doing any actual work.
As such, these companies were engaged in providing the various
accommodation entries including the long-term capital gain to the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 29 various beneficiaries. Shri RK Kedia also furnished the list of 31 such
companies along with the details of the persons who are managing and
controlling such companies with contact details. Besides the statement of
Shri RK Kedia, the post search enquiries also revealed the fact that such
companies highlighted by Shri RK Kedia, were paper companies which
were engaged in providing accommodation entries. 24. It was noticed by the AO that the assessee, through Shri RK Kedia,
has taken long-term capital gain on the sale of the shares with respect to
10 companies which were included in such 31 companies, as discussed
in preceding paragraph. Regarding such companies, the details were
found and impounded from the premises of Shri RK Kedia, containing
the transactions of sale/ purchase of shares and dealing of cash. This fact
was admitted by him that these companies were engaged in providing
accommodation entries. The list of 10 companies from which assessee
earned long term capital stand as under: In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 30 25. It was further found that one of the companies namely M/s Blue
Circle Services Ltd was controlled and managed by Shri Jagdish Prasad
Purohit who admitted in the course of search conducted under section
132 of the Act on various dates i.e. 19th November 2011, 12th February
2013, 17th December 2013 and 21st January 2015 in a statement
furnished under section 132(4) of the Act, that he was engaged in
providing accommodation entries. For this purpose, he has used several
companies including M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd. The financials of
M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd were very weak and showing a meagre
income. Thus the rise in the price in the shares of M/s Blue Circle
Services Ltd from Rs. 4 to 75-80 during 2010 to 2014 was not justified.
However, the trade volume of shares of M/s Blue circle services Ltd has
been recorded at Rs.1387.66 crores during such period which was done
through the several brokers. Most of the brokers at different point of
time have admitted on oath to have arranged bogus long-term capital
gain to certain beneficiaries through impugned company i.e. M/s Blue
Circle Services Ltd. In connection with the share trading of M/s Blue
Circle Services Ltd, certain documents were also found from the
premises of Shri RK Kedia marked as A-2 pages 19 to 26. The
transactions as appearing in these seized documents were exactly
matching with the data of Bombay stock exchange showing the sale
made by Shri Aniket Singal, relative of the assessee group. Further the
cash received by Shri Kedia against the accommodation entry of long
term capital gain was recorded on dated 11th,12th,13th and 17th
September 2012. Another document was also found which is
incriminating in nature marked as "Chopra Account/ BPSL Account" In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 37 37. The disclosure made by the assessee for Rs.250 crores on behalf of
the group was based on the documents found during the search
proceedings at various places. The entries recorded in those documents
i.e. CASH/ CHEQUE SHEET AND KEDIA-2, were matching with the
books of accounts/ bank statement of the assessee group. As such the
assessee failed to make any satisfactory reply on confrontation of
various documents and thus he admitted in the statement recorded under section 132(4) / 131-1A of the Act to disclose a sum of Rs.250 crores. Out
of such sum Rs.159.61 crores was surrendered for the long-term capital
gain shown from PIL in the assessment year 2011-12 and 12-13.
Therefore the contention of the assessee that the disclosures were made
under pressure is not tenable. 38. The group of the assessee has generated huge long-term capital
gain on the purchase and sale of shares of the companies which were not
having any business activity. All these companies were showing meagre
income. Likewise, these companies were incurring only nominal cost
which suggests that these companies are not actively engaged in any
activity. Had there been any activity, the same would have been reflected
from the financial statements of the relevant companies. Similarly, these
companies have issued shares at a huge premium which was
immediately utilised for making the investment in the shares of other
companies. Thus, considering all these facts, the amount of capital gain
generated on the sale purchase of these companies is against the human
probability. Therefore, the preponderance of the probability suggests that
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 38 the transactions carried out by the assessee group in the name of long-
term capital gain are a sham transaction. 39. There were various direct and circumstantial evidence available on
record indicating that the prices of the shares of the impugned
companies were rigged up in an organised manner by the network of the
various entry-operators. All the transactions of purchase and sale of the
shares of these companies on the stock exchange were carried out in
synchronised manner. Most of the time transaction gets completed
immediately after putting the bid on the stock exchange. 40. There were various search and seizure operations as well as survey
operations on various companies, brokers, sub-brokers, employees etc.
who have furnished the statement under section 132(4) of the Act by
admitting that they were engaged in providing accommodation entries to
the beneficiaries. Some of the names of these persons are Shri SCS,
Praveen kumar Jain, RK kedia, Manish Aroroa, OPK etc. The statements
of these persons were backed by various incriminating documents found
from their premises. Thus the statements corroborate the fact that the
group of the assessee had been engaged in taking the accommodation
entries from various entry operators. Likewise, none of the statement
was recorded under section 132(4) of the Act using any coercion. As
such all the statements were furnished by the entry operators/companies
admitting their involvement in the activity of accommodation entries
which was based on the incriminating materials. Furthermore, there was
the consistency among the statements furnished by the parties under section 132(4) / 131(1A) of the Act admitting the fact that they were
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 39 engaged in providing the accommodation entries to the beneficiaries
including the assessee. 41. There were series of documents found during the search wherein
the entries for receipt of cash were recorded. All these entries of cash
receipt were matching with the seized documents which were found at
different places during the independent searches. Besides the cash
transactions, there were banking transactions also recorded which were
matching with the books of accounts of entities of entry provider and the
bank statement of the assessee group company. All these documents
read in toto evidence that the group of assessee has given cash to the
entry providers for generating accommodation entries in the form of
long term capital gain. For this purpose, the commission was also paid
by the group of the assessee which was also appearing in the seized
documents. 42. Regarding the contention of the assessee for providing the
opportunity of cross-examination of the persons as discussed above, it
was noticed by the AO that the addition was not made merely on the
basis of the statement but it was backed by various incriminating
documents found during the independent searches. Therefore in such
circumstances, it was not obligatory to extend the opportunity of cross-
examination to the assessee. Besides, there were numerous searches in
different parts of the country in the case of various persons and therefore
it was not feasible to provide the opportunity of the cross-examination of
the alleged person to the assessee. However, nobody appeared in
response to the summons issued to various parties under section
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 40 133(6)/131 of the Act. Furthermore, the sham transactions generally
carried out in an organised manner by the group/network of syndicate
and therefore member of such syndicate did not come forward for the
cross-examination. 43. The proceedings under the income tax Act being the civil
proceedings does not requires absolute evidence. Therefore the aspect of
preponderance of probability cannot be ignored in the given facts and
circumstances, especially on the basis of the documents and the
statement recorded of various persons during various search proceedings
as discussed above. All the companies which have been used for the
purpose of generating the long-term capital gain on the sale & purchase
of the shares were financially weak and having no business transaction.
Thus, no prudent businessman will take the risk by making the
investment in the shares of such companies. Therefore, the
preponderance of probability suggest that the assessee has entered into
such transaction with view to convert unaccounted money with the help
of entry provider in the form of bogus long-term capital gain which is
also supported by the plethora of evidence gathered in various searches,
statements and surrounding facts and circumstances. Accordingly, the
AO treated entire long term capital gain earned by the assessee for A.Y.
2008-09 to 2014-15 as unaccounted/unexplained money u/s 68 / 69C being bogus long-term capital gain and commission expenses thereon.
Thus the AO for the year under consideration i.e. A.Y. 2014-15 made
additions for a sum of Rs. 59,85,99,451/- on account of bogus long term
capital gain and Rs. 3,81,28,694/- on account of commission charges. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 41 44. Aggrieved assessee preferred an appeal to the learned CIT (A) 45. The assessee before the learned CIT (A) submitted that the
transactions for the purchase and sale of the shares of the alleged
companies were backed by the necessary supporting evidences such as
the contract notes, Demat Accounts, banking statement showing
payment for purchase and proceeds against sale received in bank etc.
However, the AO has not pointed out any defect in such documents
which were produced before him during the assessment proceedings.
The AO has merely treated the impugned long-term capital gain as
bogus and therefore unexplained cash credit on the basis of reports
received from the directorate of investigation wing. As such, the
Directorate of investigation wing in the course of search proceedings
conducted under section 132 of the Act, in the case of various persons
not connected with the assessee, have collected the documents as well as
recorded the statements. Based on the same it was alleged that the
assessee has generated bogus long-term capital gain. Accordingly, the
assessee submitted that the AO without pointing out any defects in the
primary documents but relying on the documents/statements of the 3rd
parties without conducting any independent enquiry has concluded that
the impugned long-term capital gain as bogus in nature. Thus the act of
the AO is without the application of mind. 46. The assessee further submitted that there was a specific request
made to the AO during the assessment proceedings for extending the
opportunity of cross-examination of the parties whose statements were
relied for alleging that the transaction of long-term capital gain was
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 42 bogus in nature. It is the settled law that no adverse inference can be
drawn against the assessee until and unless the assessee is afforded the
opportunity of cross verification. 47. It was also contended that the conditions as specified under section
10(38) of the Act for treating the particular long-term capital gain as
exempted from tax have been duly satisfied. As such the assessee has
generated the long-term capital gain on the sale of listed securities and
after making the payment of security transaction tax. Therefore, the AO
should have viewed the transactions of impugned long-term capital gain
within the parameters of the provisions specified under section 10(38) of
the Act. 48. The sale and purchase of the scripts listed on the stock exchange
are regulated by SEBI, internal control/guidelines of the stock exchange.
Furthermore, a company before listing shares in a stock exchange has to
face various hurdles for compliance of the conditions specified by the
stock exchange as well as SEBI. Therefore, treating the impugned long-
term capital gain as bogus in nature would be a disgrace of such
authorities which came into existence through the Parliament of India.
Further in such a highly regularised and formalized system of trading,
rigging or manipulating the transaction is almost impossible. 49. The word penny stock has not been defined anywhere in any of the
Act. However, penny stock refers to the scripts of small companies. The
trading of shares of such small companies cannot be viewed with
prejudicial mind. Accordingly, any gain arose out of the trading of
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 43 shares of such small companies cannot be termed as bogus in nature.
The rise in the price of the shares in market is not always based on the
company's financial position, profit/growth rather its value/price is
determined on the demand and supply of the script. As such the price of
the script depends upon various factors such as the field in which the
company is operating, the competition that the companies is facing, the
difficulty for making the entry in the particular field, the background of
the promoters, Govt. policy, budget proposals, future plans etc. 50. Furthermore, the assessee was nowhere involved in the jacking up
of the price of the companies as discussed above. There is no allegation
brought on record by the revenue suggesting that the assessee was
involved in any manner in rigging up the price of the alleged companies. The AO while treating the impugned long-term capital gain as
bogus in nature has referred to various statements and documents seized
in the course of search from the place of the 3rd parties. As such there
was no iota of evidence found from the premises of the assessee
suggesting that the assessee was engaged in generating such capital gain
which is bogus in nature. Therefore, no reference can be made to the
documents collected from the 3rd party while deciding the income of the
assessee. 51. The AO in treating the long-term capital gain on the script of PIL
has heavily relied upon the statement of Shri SCS/ RK Kedia/ Manish
Arora, OPAK, Praveen Kumar Jainviz a viz the documents found from
the premises of SCS and others. In this regard it was submitted that the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 44 assessee does not know the said parties except Shri RK Kedia. No
transaction was carried out with any of them except certain help received
from Shri RK Kedia. Therefore, it was submitted by the assessee that he
has not provided any cash to any of the party. The company namely
BSPL has given advances for the acquisition of capital assets, through
Shri RK Kedia, to various companies in the course of normal business.
As such it was not known that such companies belong to Shri SCS. 52. Regarding the sheet marked as Kedia-2, it was submitted that
assessee has not prepared such sheet. The sheet was prepared by SCS for
the reasons best known to him. As such, the assessee does not know any
reason for the sheet Kedia 2 being maintained by Shri SCS. The bank
payment was made through RK Kedia for the acquisition of the capital
assets by BPSL. Why the details of bank payment were recorded in the
sheet found from the premises of Shri SCS, this question can only be
answered by Shri RK Kedia. There can be some internal dealing
between them which can be clarified by them only. It has already been
submitted that it has not provided any cash of whatsoever to any party.
Therefore the cash transactions recorded in the documents found from
the premises of the 3rd party namely Shri SCS , RK Kedia and Praveen
Kumar Jain which were also matching/correlating with the respective
records maintained by them are not known by him. For what purpose
they were recording the transactions, they can only clarify. Furthermore,
in none of the document the name of the assessee group was shown.
The assessee also made same arguments with respect to the CASH AND
CHEQUE SHEET found from the premises of Shri SCS. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 45 53. The cash trail found by the AO with respect to the parties namely
Shri SCS , RK Kedia and Praveen Kumar Jain pertained to the period
28th of June 2011 to 27th August 2011 whereas the assessee has made
the last sale of shares of PIL dated 3rd May 2011 much prior to the cash
trail as pointed out by the AO. Therefore, no reference can be made to
such documents. 54. It was also submitted that the assessee has not made any payment
of commission or agreed to pay to Shri RK Kedia as recorded from the
documents found from his premises. Admittedly, the investment in PIL
and other companies was made as per the advice of Shri RK Kedia and
therefore it might be possible that Shri RK Kedia was expecting some
commission on such investments. However, Shri RK Kedia has never
demanded any commission from the assessee. Therefore, it is best
known to Shri RK Kedia, what was the purpose for maintaining such
record. 55. The assessee has sold the shares of PIL to various companies
numbering into 141 and there were only 21 companies out of such 141
companies belonging to the group of SCS. In other words, several
companies to whom the shares were transferred were not the part of the
entities of Shri SCS. Therefore, there is no question of treating the sale
of shares to other companies as unexplained cash credit under section 68 of the Act. Once the transaction of selling shares to the companies other
than 21 companies belonging to Shri SCS has to be accepted as genuine
long-term capital gain, then the transaction of selling the shares of the
group company controlled and managed by Shri SCS should also be
given the same treatment. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 46 56. All the shares were sold through the stock exchange which is
regulated by the various authorities. Once the request of sale of shares
was made on the stock exchange which was matched with the other
party as buyer, the same was accepted and accordingly, the transaction
got executed. As such there is no role of the assessee in such price fixing
with the buyer. As such the buyers are always unknown to the seller.
Accordingly, the contention of the AO that the transaction of sale
purchase was completed in a couple of minutes is not tenable and carried
no merits. 57. Regarding the long-term capital gain shown on the sale of the
shares of M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd, it was submitted that it was
treated as bogus on the basis of statements recorded of various persons
such as Shri RK Kedia, Manish Arora, Praveen Agrawal and Jagdish
Purohit besides the document marked as annexure 2 and backup data
found from the premises of RK Kedia. But the fact is this that he does
not know to Shri Jagdish Purohit and Parveen Aggarwal. Moreover, the
assessee has not carried out any transaction either directly or indirectly
with these persons. Similarly, the name of assessee group was not
appearing in the statements furnished by Shri Jadish Purohit and Praveen
Agrawal. Similarly, these two persons did not even admitted in the
statement that they have helped each other in generating the bogus long-
term capital gain. Likewise, the allegation of the AO that Shri Jagdish
Purohit was controlling the affairs of the company namely M/s Blue
Circle Services Ltd was not correct as his name was not appearing in the
list of Board of Directors of the company. The assessee further
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 47 contended that his name is not appearing on the documents seized from
the premises of Shri RK Kedia which were marked as annexure 2 and
the backup data. The transactions recorded therein or between Shri RK
Kedia and Jagdish Purohit without having any reference to the assessee.
Furthermore, the transactions recorded in these seized documents
pertained to the financial year 2012- 13 whereas the assessee has sold
the shares of M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd in the financial year 2011-12.
Accordingly, it was contended that the assessee has no role in the
documents seized during the search proceedings. 58. The assessee has sold the shares in the case of M/s Blue Circle
Services Ltd worth of Rs.170 crores. Out of Rs. 170 crores, the shares
value of Rs. 60.12 crores were allegedly purchased by the companies
controlled and managed by Shri Praveen Agarwal, an entry operator,
which constitutes 37% of the total value of the shares sold. Thus it can
be inferred that the remaining 63% of the total value of the shares were
sold to other parties in respect of which no doubt was raised by the AO.
Furthermore, all the transactions have been carried out through the stock
exchange regulated by the SEBI, where the seller and the buyer's do not
know each other and seller or buyer doesn't having any control on such
transactions. Thus it cannot be said that the transactions of shares trading
was carried out in synchronised manner. 59. With respect to the allegation of the AO for the weak financial and
no business activity in the case of M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd, the
assessee repeated the same arguments which have been elaborated in the
preceding paragraph. In sum and substance, the contention of the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 48 assessee was that the weak financial of the company cannot be a criteria
to determine the value of the shares rather it depends upon various other
factors. Similarly, the assessee submitted that its group has made
investments in the company as discussed above and other companies
considering the future prospective as a normal investor only. If there was
any rise or fall in the price of the company, he had no role of whatsoever
and there was no document brought on record for alleging so. 60. All the necessary documents in support of the transactions for the
impugned long-term capital gain were furnished which cannot be
brushed aside by the AO by resorting to the approach of preponderance
of probability. It is because, all the transactions are backed by the
documentary evidence. Thus, no inference can be drawn against the
assessee based on the principle of preponderance of probability. 61. However, the learned CIT (A) disagreed with the contention of the
assessee by observing that the assessee group has shown long-term
capital gain of Rs. 694 crores over the period of time against the
investment made for Rs.21 crores only. The entire investment was made
by the assessee group in the penny stock companies having weak
financials and no major business activities. Besides this, the assessee has
not made any other investment in any other company. Thus, it is
humanly impossible for generating such huge capital gain in such short
period of time without any manipulation. 61.1 The assessee himself has admitted to have generated long-term
capital gain for Rs. 250 crores in the statement furnished under section
132(4) of the Act after confronting various documents of incriminating
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 49 nature and the statement recorded of various persons. Thus, the
admission by the assessee in itself is a vital piece of evidence that the
group of the assessee has generated huge bogus long-term capital gain.
The admission for disclosing the income was made by the assessee
based on the incremental documents found during the search as well as
the statements recorded of various persons and therefore the argument of
the assessee that the admission was made to buy the peace of mind or it
was given under coercion/pressure has no relevance. 62. The banking transactions and shares transactions appearing in the
sheet marked as Kedia -2 are matching with the bank statement and BSE
data of the assessee group company. At the same time, such sheet was
also containing the details of the cash transactions as well as the
commission charges. Therefore, the transactions reflected in such sheet
has to be seen as a whole evidencing that the assessee has paid cash
against the sale of shares in order to take the accommodation entries.
Thus, it is hard to believe the contention of the assessee that its group
was indulged in the share trading activity as the investor only. 63. The incriminating documents found during the search proceedings
pertaining to the particular A.Y. only but the assessee has carried out
identical transactions in the immediate preceding year also. Thus, it can
be concluded that the transactions of the earlier year was also bogus in
nature. Usually, the bogus transactions are fabricated in such a way that
they appear to be correct based on the documentary evidence. But such
evidence has to be evaluated in the light of other vital information
available on record which was found in the course of search of other
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 50 parties. If a transaction is genuine then all other information available on
record would also support and indicate the genuineness of the
transactions. But the assessee is harping upon the documentary evidence
to justify the transactions of long-term capital gain without bringing any
material on record against the documents/findings discovered during the
search proceedings by the Directorate of Investigation, Ahmadabad,
Mumbai, Delhi, Chandigarh etc. 64. Generally, the principles of natural justice demands affording
opportunity of cross-examination of the documentary evidence as well
as the statements recorded of the parties if used against the assessee. But
such principles are not absolute meaning thereby it depends upon the
facts and circumstances whether to extend the opportunity to the
assessee for the cross-examination. In a situation where the addition is
based solely on the statements, then it becomes obligatory on the part of
the AO to adhere the principles of natural justice. However, in the case
on hand, there were various vital piece of evidences which were
gathered after conducting various searches at different locations and on
different persons by the Directorate of Investigation wing of Mumbai,
Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Delhi and Chandigarh. Therefore, in such a
situation it is not compulsory to afford the opportunity of cross-
examination, especially in fact that the assessee failed to discharge the
onus cast upon him. 65. In view of the above the learned CIT (A) confirmed the order of
the AO by observing as under: 66. Being aggrieved by the order of the learned CIT (A), the assessee
is in appeal before the Tribunal. 67. The ld.counsel for the assessee while impugning order of the
ld.CIT(A) appraised us chronology of events, and in this connection he
took us through page no.1 and 2 of the consolidated written submissions
filed by him, which is running into 175 pages. In order to appreciate the
facts in more scientific way, we deem it necessary to take note of list of
events incorporated by the ld.counsel for the assessee in his submission,
which reads as under: No incriminating material pertaining to any
 irregular availment of bogus LTCG by the
 Assessee(s) found. 04.03.2010 Sanjay Singal's voluntary disclosure of Rs. 302
13.04.2010 Crs u/s 132(4) in the hands of himself, his wife
25.05.2010 and group companies (Letter dt. 18.06.2010,
18.06.2010 13.04.2010, 25.05.2010) for AY 2010-2011 as
 undisclosed income emanating from seized
 documents - no connection with the issue of
 LTCG. 15.12.2011 Assessments u/s 153A for A.Ys 2004-05 to 2010-
20.12.2011 11 in the cases of SS & ARS - no issue/addition
30.06.2013 relating to LTCG
 Pursuant to the D4 Order of the ITSC,
 dt.30.06.2013 the Assessment Order for the AY
 2010-2011 stood revised - income declared in the
 hands of SS & ARS partly shifted to the hands of
 BPSL and excluded from their individual hands
 vide order of the ITSC
29.03.2012 Search at Himanush Verma on 29.03.12 by
 DIT(Inv), Delhi - Group concerns of the Assessee
 had made a further disclosure of 89.4 Crs for the
 AY 2011-2012 and 2012-13 on account of alleged
 bogus share capital/premium - No issue relating
 to LTCG

13.09.2012 S&S at residential cum office premises of Praveen
 Agarwal by DIT(Inv) Kolkata- statements
 recorded - documents relied upon mainly four
 excel sheets from hard disk ID mark PAL/HD/1 - allegedly shows datewise detail's of
 cheques/RTGS received and paid from/to various
 parties including BPSL group - statements dt. 12.11.2012, 05.02.2014, 30.04.2014, 18.11.2014
 & 11.02.2015 recorded - Assessee(s) not named in
 any of the seized documents or statements. 27.12.2012 Survey at premises of BPSL Group by DIT(Inv),
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 53 Chandigarh - BPSL Group Concerns made
 another voluntary disclosure of Rs.70.36 Crs for
 AY 2013-14 wrt unexplained credits, cash
 payments for land purchase and interest
 disallowance (and interest disallowance in the
 hands of BSPL was 9 crs) - nothing incriminating
 with respect to LTCG found. S&S by DIT(Inv) Ahd in the case of Sirish
09.04.2013 Chandrakant Shah (SCS) - Alleged that BSPL has
 received a huge amount of accommodation entries
 from the cartel of Cos. managed and controlled by
 SCS. and various other entry operators. Documentary evidence in this regard - Kedia 2
 (excel sheet), Cash & Cheque Sheets (tabulated
 data found at Pg.7/146 of the A.O Order) - noticeably, the names of Assessee(s) do not
 feature in any of these seized documents - statements of SCS, his employees, dummy
 directors etc. relied upon -statements of SCS dt.
 13.04.2013, 03.06.2013, 05.06.2013, 11.06.2013,
 25.11.2013 & 13.01.2014 relied upon

19.10.2011, Statements of Jagdish Prasad Purohit recorded
12,02.2033, u/s 1317 132(4) in course of S&S u/s 132(1) in the
17.12.2013 case of various companies allegedly controlled &
 managed by him - Assessee(s) not named
 anywhere in such statements

11.10.2013 Search at the premises of Praveen Kumar Jain
 (Pintu) by DIT(Inv), Mumbai, admitted on oath
 that he was in the business of providing
 accommodation entries and used to collect cash
 from angadias on behalf of SCS and would then
 pay SCS the same amount in cheque - seized
 documents relied upon mainly account of SCS in
 books of PKJ viz. SHIR ledger - statements dt.l
 1.10.2013 relied upon - Assessee(s) not named in
 any of the seized documents or statements. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 54 21.02.2014/ S&S operation u/s 132(1) at BPSL group by
22.02.2014 DIT(Inv), Faridabad including residential &
 office premises of the Assessees herein (the
 impugned search) - docs seized from premises of
 BPSL and relied upon by the AO: 'Annexure HD
 of data backup', Annexure A-13, pgs 4 to 7 & pgs
 133,133 & Annexure A-28, pgs 1 to 27 - all part
 of regular records of BPSL -these seized
 documents have no connection with the issue of
 LTCG - no incriminating documents found from
 the premises of the Assessees herein

 Statement of Sri Sanjay Singal recorded u/s
 132(4) - In reply to last question on 22.02.14, SS
 disclosed additional income of Rs. 250 crores for
 the entire group and submitted a disclosure letter - specifically stated that the disclosure was made
 to avoid litigation and purchase peace of mind

 Simultaneous search operation in the case of R.K
 Kedia by DIT(Inv), Delhi - nothing incriminating
 wrt the Assesseee(s) found - in course of statement
 recorded u/s 132(4) on 21/22.02.2014 stated that
 investments in shares were made by the Singals on
 his advice - that the LTCG earned by Singals was
 genuine- contents of Kedia 2 Sheet seized from
 SCS was categorically denied by RKK (reply to Q 75). 06.03.2014 Sanjay Singal filed letter dt. 06.03.2014 giving
 breakup of Rs, 250 crores, i.e. Rs. 159.61 crores in
 the hands of SS, ARS & SS(HUF) for A.Y. 201 1-12
 & 2012-13 - allegedly on account of exempt LTCG
 on sale of shares of Prraneta Industries Ltd.(PIL)
 solely for the purpose of buying peace of mind and
 avoiding protracted litigation- bifurcation w.r.t the
 balance offer was undertaken to be submitted in a
 few days after examining seized materials. 13.06.2014 S&S operation u/s 132(1) carried out once again by
 DIT(Inv), Delhi at the premises of RKK & at the
 residential premises of Manish Arora (employee of
 RKK) - alleged hard/soft data seized -statements of
 R.K. Kedia & Manish Arora recorded. In course of his statement recorded on 13.062014
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 55 which continued upto 16.06.2014, RKK changed the
 stand taken by him earlier on 22.022014 and
 interalia stated that he had arranged bogus LTCG
 accommodation entries for various members of the
 Singal Family

14.10.2014 Sri R.K. Kedia once again reverted to his original
 stand and retracted from his statement dated
 13.06.2014 stating that the said statement was
 recorded under extreme pressure and he was
 forcibly made to sign certain typed statements
 without being allowed to go through the same and
 that he was never engaged in the business of
 providing accommodation entries. 26.03.2015 Due to the continuous pressure created by the
 Department, Sri R.K. Kedia without any explicable
 reason whatsoever, once again vacillated from his
 original stand and re-retracted the retraction filed
 by him on. 14.10.2014 by filing a letter & affidavit
 dated 26.03.2015

12.12.2014 (SS & Notice u/s 153A dt. 12.12.14 (SS & ARS),
ARS) & 29.01.2015 29.012015 (SS(HUF) & 12.08.2015 (ANS) for the
(SS(HUF)), AY 2008-2009 to 2013-14 issued
12.08.2015 (ANS)

19.02.2015 & Assessee filed submissions dated 19.02.15 (in the
08.09.20I5 case of SS & ARS) & 08.09.2015(in the case of
 ANS) in response to notice u/s 153A -validity of
 initiation of proceedings u/s 153 A for unabated
 years in the absence of incriminating materials
 challenged - Adhoc offer of additional income (not
 backed by any incriminating materials) was not
 reflected in the returns of income of the Assessee
 group on the strength of CBDT Circular Nos. F. No.
 286/2/2003-IT (Inv.) dt 10-3-2003 and F, No.
 286/98/2013-IT dt. 18.12.2014. 10.08.20 15 & Notice u/s 143(2) dt. 10.08.2015 issued Notice u/s
08.09.2015 142(1) dt. 12.08.2015 - seeking details of exempt
 LTCG claimed in ITR, ledger of purchaser/seller in
 the books of the Assessee & cash flow statement
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 56 20/21.10.2015 SCNsdt.20.10.2015 (for AY 201 1-12 to 2012-13)
 issued. 09.112015 SCN dt.. 09.1 1.2015 (u/s 142(1 ))(for AY 201 1-12
 to 2014-15) issued

 13.01.2016 Proceedings u/s 1 53 A dropped in the case of
 SS(HUF)

 03.02.2016 Assessee(s)' submissions in response to SCN dt. 20/21.10.2016 - also requested for opportunity of
 cross examination

 05.02.2016 Letter of AO seeking list of persons sought to be
 cross-examined by the Assessee(s). 10.02.2016 Notice u/s 142(1) dt. 10.022016

 17.02.2016 Letter filed before AO requesting for cross
 examination

 26.03.2016 Notice u/s 148 issued to SS(HUF)

 28.03.2016 Assessment order u/s 153A passed in the cases of
 SS, ARS, ANS

 05.04.2016 SS(HUF) filed return of income in response to
 notice u/s 148 and requested for supply of reasons
 recorded u/s 147

 15.09.2016 Reasons recorded u/s.147 supplied to SS (HUF)

 15.09.2016 Notice u/s.143(2) issued & served on SS(HUF)

 10.05.2016 Notice u/s.142(1) along with questionnaire dated
 10.5.2016 served on SS(HUF)
 23.08.2016 SCN u/s.142(1) issued to SS(HUF)

 29.12.2016 Assessment order u/s.148 r.w.s. 143(3) passed in the
 case of SS(HUF)
 31.03.2018 Combined order passed by CIT(A) 68. As observed earlier, the ld.CIT(A) has decided 18 appeals by the
present impugned order. Out of those 18 appeals, appeals of the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 57 assessee for the assessment years 2008-09, 2011-12, 2012-13 in the
cases of Shri Sanjay Singal and Smt.Arti Singal have been decided by
the Tribunal vide its order dated 7.2.2020. Similarly, the appeals of the
assessee, Shri Sanjay Singhal HUF for the Asstt.Year 2011-12 and 2012-
13 have also been decided. The stand of the ld.counsel for the assessee
is that in the group of BBS group large number of appeals came to the
Tribunal. Out of which many appeals have been decided. The Tribunal
has segregated those appeals under two compartments viz. the appeals
pertaining to those assessment years whose assessment years have not
been abated i.e. unabated year, because according to the Tribunal scope
of those appeal altogether different than the scope of assessment years
where assessment proceedings have been abated. According to the
ld.counsel for the assessee, the issues involved in these appeals are
common, whether involve unabated or abated years. The evidences
collected by the Revenue are also common, and all those evidences were
collected from the premises of the third party. The orders of ITAT dated
31.10.2018 in the case of Shri Brij Bhusan Singal in ITA No.1412 to
1414/Del/2018 and other appeals have been placed on record. Similarly,
order of the Tribunal in the case of Shri Brij Bhusan Singal and others
Vs. DCIT in ITA No.1415 to 1417/Del/2018 dated 7.12.2018 have also
been placed on record. According to the ld.counsel for the assessee, the
issues are identical, and there is no disparity on the facts, and therefore,
the Tribunal is required to follow its view taken in the case of other
family members by the coordinate bench. We took cognizance of these
facts and proceed to take note of further submissions raised by the
assessee as under: The process of preferential allotment which is invariably spread by
the word of mouth, the possibility of personal contact between the
promoters/management and preferential allottees is miniscule. iii) Various statutory/regulatory bodies such as S.E.B.I, the
Stock Exchanges etc. are involved in the process of preferential
allotment of shares as well as the follow up of public issue. The
entire process involves a multi-stage, rigorous, coordinated and
time bound process involving comprehensive due-diligence,
vetting of documents, background check of promoters, compliance
with well-laid out guidelines and parameters etc. A company
intending to go in for a public issue can allot shares by way of
preferential allotment only after getting the approval of S.E.B.I. In
the entire process, S.E.B.I also approves the list of persons/ entities
to whom shares are to be allotted on preferential basis, also
incorporating therein the terms and conditions including, lock in, if
any subject to which the shares are to be issued. In the given
backdrop, the Assessee(s) herein cannot be faulted for relying on a
commercial proposition which was duly compliant with law,
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 60 including approval of S.E.B.I. To disregard the activities
conducted by a Company as dummy when almost its entire
spectrum of activities has been pre-scrutinized and approved by
various agencies, including the capital market regulator S.E.B.I
would be disregarding the functioning of bodies operating under a
law enacted by the Parliament of India. iv) The shares allotted by the companies were listed and traded
on the stock exchange. These shares were subsequently credited to
the respective DEMAT Accounts of the Assessee(s) herein. After
being held by the Assessee(s) for a period of more than 12 months,
their sales were affected through registered brokers on the
NSE/BSE in accordance with prescribed regulatory procedures,
rules and applicable laws whereby both the limbs of the
transaction viz. purchase and sale of shares got duly authenticated.
The sale proceeds for the sale of shares were received through
normal and regular banking channels from the stock broker
through whom the shares had been sold, who, in turn received the
same from the Stock Exchange through its designated payout
mechanism and stood duly credited to the respective Assessee(s)'
bank accounts. v) The shares in question were of listed companies and were
sold at prevailing market rates through the Bombay Stock
Exchange Online Trading (BOLT) platform of the Bombay Stock
Exchange and all the payments against the same were received
through account payee cheques/RTGS from the stock broker. It
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 61 may be mentioned that under the online web-based trading
platforms of the relevant exchanges as per the prevalent
procedures, the broker only acts as the intermediary. There is no
physical interaction between the parties and accordingly, the
identities of the counter-party (whether buyer or seller) is not
available thereby eliminating the possibility of any collusion
between the parties. The entire sales of shares were effected
through web-based platforms of the relevant exchanges in which
the seller can in no way sell the shares to a particular
entity/individual & vice versa; where the trade is executed when
the bid price offered by the buyer matches with the offer price of
the seller and vice versa; and the entire transaction is a demand
and supply game over which neither the buyer nor the seller has
any control. The transactions carried out by the Assessee(s) stand
fully documented and evidenced by contract notes/ bills of the
relevant brokers issued in the form and manner as prescribed by
the regulatory authorities, copies of which are duly enclosed in
Paper Book No. 3 filed separately in the case of each Assessee for
each of the years under consideration. vi) It is submitted that the Assessee(s) herein were neither aware
nor could be aware of the persons/ entities buying the shares sold
by them. There was no way formal, informal or even collusive
whereby they could control the sales of shares to ensure their sales
to a particular person/entity. The Assessee(s) herein did not have
any kind of relationship or control over the said companies save as
that of passive investor and were not involved in the management
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 62 thereof at any point of time. The Assessee(s) had no role
 whatsoever in the capital market operations of the scrips or
 influencing to any degree or extent their stock market prices. The
 transactions were entered into by the Assessee(s) in the capacity of
 stock market investor on the basis of market gossip, information
 and feedback received from various professionals, friends,
 relatives & other acquaintances mainly Sri R.K. Kedia, who were
 actively involved and had adequate knowledge of securities
 market, the Assessee(s)' perception and anticipation as to future
 price movements etc. with a view to earn profits from the
 appreciation, whether long term/ short term in the prices of the
 underlying shares. In order to evidence the said transactions, all
 relevant documentary evidences in the form of share purchase
 documents, DEMAT Accounts, Share certificates, contract notes
 and bank statements evidencing the relevant entries regarding
 receipts against sale of shares etc. were duly filed before the
 Revenue Authorities. The same are also placed in Paper Book No.
 3 filed separately in the case of each Assessee for each year under
 consideration before the Hon'ble Bench. vii) In the aforesaid backdrop, the ld.counsel for the assessee
 countered various arguments both legal and factual put forth by the
 Revenue Authorities in making the impugned additions as under: In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 63 i) In making the impugned additions u/s 68 & 69C of the Act,
the A.O, in the assessment order has predominantly relied upon the
statements of the following persons recorded by the Investigation
Wing in course of separate search/survey actions in their cases: Name of the Person/ deponent Status

Sirish Chandrakant Shah (SCS) Person allegedly managing
 &controlling affairs of M/s. P1L

Ranjan Kachaiia, Chandan Employees/ Associates of SCS
Kumar Singh, Damodar Attal>
Devang D. Master, Devang
Jhaveri, Prakash Dave, Naresh
Parmar

Kumar Raichand Madan Person supplying directors to SCS

Praveen Kumar Jain (alias Alleged accommodation entry
Pintu) provider facilitating conversion
 of cash into RTGS in the a/cs of
 SCS

Satish Saraf Alleged accommodation entry
 provider facilitating conversion
 of cash into RTGS in the a/cs of
 SCS

Om Prakash Andilal Promoter & Director of P1L
Khandelwal

Yogender Kumar Gupta Promoter & Director of M/s. Madan Industries Ltd. alleged to be
 controlled by SCS

Jayesh Raichand Thakkar Promoter & Director of M/s. Prabhav Industries Ltd. allged to
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 64 be controlled by SCS

Sri Satyaprakash Goel Director of Avance Technologies
 Ltd, alleged to be controlled by
 SCS

Sri Raj Kumar Kedia Alleged entry operator

Manish Arora Employee of Raj Kumar Kedia

Jagdish Prasad Purohit Person allegedly controlling the
 following cos: Unisys Software & Holding Ltd. 3. Global Infratech Ltd. ii) It may be noted that in most of the statements (barring the
statement of RKK & his employee Manish Arora), the Assessee(s)
herein have not even been named/implicated. It is also pertinent to
note that although Sri Jagdish Prasad Purohit has been alleged to
be managing & controlling the affairs of Blue Circle Services Ltd.
& Global Infratech Ltd., as per the information collected from the
website of the Registrar of Companies, Sri Jagdish Prasad Purohit
was not even a director in the said companies and accordingly had
no locus standi w.r.t the said companies. Further, on a perusal of
the statements of Sri Jadgish Prasad Purohit, it may be seen that he
has given a list of the companies controlled & managed by him but
the names of Blue Circle Services Ltd. & Global Infratech Ltd. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 65 nowhere feature in such list Further, Sri Jagdish Prasad Purohit has
nowhere stated that he was providing any LTCG accommodation
entries through the companies allegedly controlled & managed by
him. Further, as elaborated subsequently, the Hon'ble Delhi ITAT
in the case of Sri Brij Bhushan Singal & Ors Vs. ACIT (supra) has
given a specific finding wherein Shri RK Kedia has been
categorically held to be unreliable person and his statements and
the documents seized from his premises have been held to have no
evidentiary value considering the inconsistencies displayed by
him. iii) The impugned additions w.r.t the transactions resulting in
exempt LTCG have been made by the A.O u/s 68 of the Act. Section 68 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 is attracted where any sum
is found credited in the books of an assessee and the assessee
offers no explanation about the nature and source thereof or the
explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion of the AO,
satisfactory. Under the provisions of section 68 of the Act, the
primary onus to explain the nature and source of the amount so
found credited is on the assessee. However, once the assessee
proves the identity of credits by either furnishing Permanent
Account Numbers or copies of bank accounts and shows the
genuineness of the transaction by showing that money in the banks
is by account payee cheques or by draft, etc., then the onus to
disprove the same would shift to the Revenue (see paras 13 & 15
of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT
Vs. Orissa Corporation (P) Ltd. (1986)159 ITR 78 (SC)). In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 66 iv) The Assessee(s) herein filed cogent documentary evidences
proving the nature and source of sums found credited in his/their
books of account viz. proceeds arising on the sale of the impugned
shares via regular banking channels over recognized stock
exchange through registered stock brokers at prices prevailing at
the stock exchange - and thus conclusively establishing all the
requisite ingredients of section 68 viz. identity, genuineness and
creditworthiness of the transactions involved. The primary onus
cast on the Assessee(s) u/s 68 to explain the nature & source of
sums found credited in his books thus stood discharged, shifting
the onus to disprove the same on the A.O which the A.O
desperately failed to do. The A.O. disbelieved the genuineness of
the transactions carried out by the Assessee(s) and the truthfulness
of the documentary evidences furnished in support thereto citing
reference to third party statements & third party evidences
gathered in course of separate search actions in the cases of third
parties. The Assessee(s) herein vehemently denied the allegations
framed on the basis of the impugned third party statements & data
and made a categorical request for allowing him/them an
opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose statements &
seized documents were intended to be used against the
Assessee(s). However, no such opportunity was provided to the
Assessee(s) in complete denial of principles of natural justice, thus
nullifying/neutralizing the referral value of such alleged third party
evidences relied upon by the A.O. and consequently resulting in
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 67 conclusion of the successful discharge of onus u/s 68 in the favour
of the Assessee(s). v) The two main principles of Natural Justice are firstly 'nemo
judix in causa sua' or 'nemo debetesse judex inpropria causa sua,
that is, "no man shall be a judge in his own cause"- and the second
rule is 'audi alteram partem', that is, 'hear the other side.' Both
make cross examination as a sine qua non of due process of taking
evidence and no adverse inference can be drawn against a party
unless the party is put on notice of the case made out against him.
The Assessee must be supplied the contents of all such evidences,
both oral and documentary, so that he can prepare the case against
him. This necessarily also postulates that he should cross examine
the witness on whose statement the AO relies to hold the sale or
purchase of shares as sham or not genuine. vi) It is trite that if an Authority is relying on the testimony of a
witness, the assessee is required to be afforded an opportunity to
cross-examine him failing which the testimony cannot be utilized
against the assessee. If this procedure is not followed, then there
would be a case of denial of natural justice to the assessee and the
addition on the basis of such statements/ material cannot stand.
Addition on account of accommodation entry cannot be made on
basis of unconfronted oral statement(s) of third party(ies). The
ld.counsel for the assessees in support of his contentions relied
upon the following judicial authorities: Trib.)
 (xxv) Cannon Industries (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2015] 59 taxmann.com 65 (Mum.-
 Trib.) vii) In the instant case also, most of the third party statements &
evidences relied upon by the A.O viz. the statements of alleged
dummy directors of various companies, alleged employees of
Sirish Chandrakant Shah, statements of Om Prakash Anandilal
Khandelwal, Praveen Kumar Jain, Praveen Agarwal, Jagdish
Prasad Purohit, Satish Saraf, Yogendra Kumar Gupta, Jayesh
Raichand Thakkar, Sri Satyaprakash Goel, Deepak Patwari etc. are
very generic. Apart from the fact that these persons were not made
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 69 available to the Assessee(s) for cross-examination, it is submitted
that these do not directly implicate/incriminate/name the
Assessee(s) herein as illegal beneficiaries to alleged bogus LTCG
in the shares of the impugned companies. The said statements only
explain the general modus 'operandi with respect to the shares of
few companies being allegedly utilized for the purpose of
providing accommodation entries in certain cases. Thus, mere
acceptance by third parties of their involvement in providing
accommodation entries of various natures to different persons
wherein the name(s) of the Assessee(s) has/have not been
implicated cannot form the basis for making additions u/s 68 & 69C of the Act in the Assessee(s) case unless a definite case is
proved against the Assessee(s) after providing him/them due
opportunity of cross-examination of the alleged deponents. viii) It is pertinent to note that the third party statements which
were relied upon by the A.Os were not recorded by the A.O in
course of the assessment proceedings in the case of the Assessee(s)
herein but were pre-existing statements recorded by the
Investigation Wing. Such statements, as judicially opined (infra),
cannot form the basis of assessment in the case of the Assesses u/s
153A without conducting a proper enquiry and examination during
the assessment proceeding itself. To support his contentions, the
following decisions are relied upon: 70. Re: Reliance on third party documentation/ evidence seized in
 course of search at the premises of third parties 1. The A.O has also placed strong reliance on hard/soft data
 seized from premises of third parties viz, various alleged entry/exit
 operators in course of search operations carried out in their cases.
 However, as discussed supra, such data was not corroborated by
 any incriminating materials/ documents in the case of the Assessee
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 71 despite using the longest arm of the Revenue in the form of search
 action u/s 132(1) against the Assessee(s) herein. The A.O has
 categorized the various alleged documentary evidences seized in
 course of search in the case of the third parties under the following
 broad sub-heads: 2 sheet', 'cheque sheets' & 'cash sheets'), Sri Praveen Kumar Jain
 (Pintu) (mainly 'SHIR Ledger') and Sri R.K. Kedia (Annexure A-
 27, Extract E-14 comprising mainly of 'Deepu Ledger') in course
 of independent search actions in their cases. It may be noted that
 the names of the Assessee(s) herein do not feature in any of the
 said seized documents. The said documents apparently indicate
 some transactions interse between the various alleged entry/exit
 operators. Further, some of these documents allegedly contain few
 cheque/RTGS entries to and from BPSL group companies which
 stand duly disclosed in the regular books of account of BPSL
 group companies and hence cannot be considered as incriminating
 against the Assessee(s) herein. Thus, in the absence of clear
 mention of the names of the Assessee(s) herein in the said third
 party documentation and no nexus having been drawn by the
 Revenue Authorities between such third party documentation and
 any incriminating materials found in course of search from the
 premises of the Assessee(s) herein, nothing adverse can be
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 72 implicated against the Assessee(s) in assessments framed u/s 153A of the Act. • With reference to the shares of the companies other than M/s.
 Prraneta Industries Ltd.: In the name of documentary evidences,
 the A.O has primarily relied on certain fabricated hard/soft data
 claimed to be seized in course of subsequent search action on Sri
 R.K. Kedia on 13.06.2014, i.e. almost four months after the search
 action in the case of the Assessee(s) herein on 22.04.2014 although
 the simultaneous search action on Sri R.K. Kedia on 22.04.2014
 had not resulted in discovery of any incriminating material against
 the Assessee(s) herein. As per the categorical finding and ruling of
 the Hon'ble Delhi ITAT in the case of Sri Brij Bhushan Singal &
 Ors Vs. ACIT (ITA Nos. 1415-1417, 1479-1481, 1483-
 1484/Del/2018) (as also elaborated subsequently), no reliance can
 be placed on documents seized from the premises of Sri R.K.
 Kedia who has been specifically held to be an unreliable person
 indulging in double speaking especially when no opportunity to
 cross examine him or his employee was provided to the
 Assessee(s). The A.O has also relied on certain data (excel sheets
 in hard disk marked PAL/HD/1) seized from the premises of one
 Praveen Agarwal (alleged exit provider) in course of separate
 search action in his case. The said data however does not relate to
 the Assessee(s) herein or to the issue of LTCG under the present
 appeals. These allegedly record certain cheque/RTGS entries to
 BPSL group companies which stand duly accounted for in the
 regular books of account of BPSL group companies. The same is
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 73 clearly evident from the A.O's observation at page 98/146 of the
 Assessment Order (in the case of Sanjay Singal for A.Y. 2012-13)
 that "the details of cheque/RTGS transaction pertaining to assessee
 group seized from Praveen Agarwal matched the entries recorded
 by the assessee group in its regular books of account and bank
 statements". It may further be noted that even in the statements of
 Sri Praveen Agarwal (with respect to which no opportunity of
 cross examination was allowed to the Assessee(s) despite
 categorical request), nothing has been implicated against the
 Assessee(s) herein or with respect to the LTCG transactions
 carried out by the Assessee(s). Thus, what has been essentially
 relied upon by the A.O is third party documentation in respect of
 which no opportunity of cross examination of the person
 controlling/owning such documents was allowed to the
 Assessee(s). As such, nothing adverse can be implicated against
 the Assessee(s) herein on the basis thereof. • Coming to the legal validity and evidentiary value of third party
 documents, at the outset, it is clarified that these hard/soft data
 were not seized from the possession and control of the Assessee(s)
 and have not been shown to belong to the Assessee(s) herein.
 Accordingly, presumption u/s.132 (4A/292C w.r.t. these seized
 material is not applicable to the assessees herein. 71. As observed earlier, the ld.counsel for the assessee has placed on
record, the detailed combined discussion with respect to present
assessee, and the main submissions made by him are as under: examine the persons whose statements were taken by the AO
 behind the back of the assesessee. However, no such
 opportunity was given to the assessee; but when the assessee
 was directed to appear on a particular date to cross-examine the
 parties, but they were not available on the specified date.
 Therefore, the impugned assessments were framed by the AO
 in gross violation of principle of natural justice. To support this
 contentions, the ld.counsel for the assessee relied upon various
 cases laws, including judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs. CIT , 281 CTR 241
 (SC). iii) The assessee has earned LTCG out of the preferential
 allotment. While denying the claim of the assessee, the ld.AO
 construed without any basis that the assessee has relation with
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 75 the promoters of the said companies and entry providers, and
 therefore, preferential shares were issued to the assessee. In fact
 the preferential shares issued to the assessee was in accordance
 with the rules and regulations of the SEBI, and the allotment of
 such shares has been vetted by the SEBI which did not signify
 any connection of the assessee with the promoters of the
 company. iv) The shares of company was listed and traded in the stock
 exchange, and the shares were credited to the respective
 DEMAT accounts of the assessee. After a period of 12 months,
 they were sold through registered brokers on the NSE/BSE in
 accordance with the prescribed regulatory procedures. The sale
 proceeds were received through normal banking channel from
 the stock brokers. In other words, transactions of sale and
 purchases were effected through proper and legal mechanism,
 and therefore, the same cannot be doubted. v) It is further submitted that share transactions were conducted
 through the web-site of stock exchange at the prevailing market
 rate, and the payment thereof were received through banking
 channel i.e. account payee cheques/RTGS from the stock
 broker. It is pertinent to note that there is no human interaction
 between the parties, in respect of impugned transactions, as the
 same were done through web-based on line application. All the
 transactions are carried out by the assessee were fully
 documented in the form of contract notes/bills of relevant
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 76 brokers. Copies of these contract notes/bills of brokers are
annexed in the paper book. vi) The assessee has no control over or aware of the
parties/entities who buy and sell the shares. The transactions
are entered into by the assessee on the basis of information and
feedback received from various professionals, market gossips
and looking to the general market conditions. The ld.AO has
no room for doubt the transactions entered into by the assessee,
because the assessee has filed all supporting evidences in the
form of DEMAT accounts, share certificates, contract notes,
bank statements. vii) It is further submitted that while framing the
assessment, the AO has strongly relied on the statement of
alleged third parties recorded under section 132(4) / 133A in the
course of search/survey action. The assessee has consistently
denied any linkage between much less any dealings with the
alleged RK Kedia or Shri Manish Arora or any of the alleged
entry operators/exit providers or directors of penny stock
companies. When the assessee sought for cross-examination of
those third parties whose statements were relied upon by the
assessee, no proper opportunity was given; and when a specific
date was given to the assessee for that purpose, but on that date
none of the witness appeared. It is pertinent to note that in
post-search investigations/assessment proceedings, the said RK
Kedia has taken contradictory stands and on 13.06.2014 he
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 77 retracted statement recorded under section 132(4) , which was
 further retracted on 26.3.2015. Therefore, his statement is not
 trustworthy and has little evidentiary value for the adjudicating
 authority to proceed on with it. In this regard, the ld.counsel for
 the assessee relied upon various case laws viz. judgment of
 Hon'ble Kolkata High Court in the case of CIT Vs. ester
 Commercial Enterprises, 201 ITR 103, ITAT decision in the
 case of DCIT Vs. Bhola Nath Radha Krishna, ITA
 No.5149/Del/2012, and Smt.Smita P. Patel Vs. AFCIT, 159
 TTJ 182 etc. Unless statements are corroborated with
 incriminating material seized during the course of search, the
 same cannot be used against the assessee to draw an adverse
 inference. vii) In sum and substance, the ld.counsel for the assessee reiterated
 that no concrete evidence has been unearthed in the course of
 search in the cases of the assessee herein to conclusively
 establish that the assessees herein had booked bogus LTCG or
 that their own unaccounted money was routed through
 transactions in shares of the said scrips or that they had made
 any compensatory payments to the buyers of the said scrips. 72. The Ld. DR while appraising us with the facts and circumstances
very eloquently submitted that the present appeals relate to the abated
assessment years and therefore no reference can be made to the order of
the ITAT in the own case of the present assessee of the earlier years
which was unabated and rendered in his favour on the reasoning that
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 78 there was no incriminating documents found during the course of search
from the premises of assessee. Thus in the earlier years, being unabated
years, no addition was sustained by the ITAT. But it is not so in the
present case being abated assessment years. 73. The ld. DR further appraised us that the facts/ particulars of the
case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal, the father of the assessee, bearing ITA
Nos. 1415 to 1417/Del/2018 for the AYs 2013-14 to 2015-16 order
dated 7-12-2018, relied by the learned AR for the assessee in support of
his claim, are different in terms of law and facts from the specifics of the
present cases. For this purpose, the learned DR has highlighted certain
factual differences as detailed under: 74. The learned DR further submitted that the onus lies upon the
assessee to explain nature and sources of credit under section 68 of the
Act. The primary onus is to furnish the details with respect to the
identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of the parties under the
provisions of section 68 of the Act. Once the assessee furnish primary
explanation then burden shift on Revenue to make further enquiry and
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 82 point deficiency in primary explanation. Upon such enquiry, thereafter
the burden once again shifts on the assessee to explain satisfactory with
regard to nature and source of credit. In the case on hand, based on the
materials gathered during the search proceedings conducted at premises
of various entry operators and brokers and the statements collected of
various entry-operators and their accomplices were confronted to the
assessee and therefore he admitted to make a disclosure of Rs.250
crores. The statements gathered during the search proceedings of various
persons were not retracted rather the statements were also reiterated
during the proceedings under PMLA. However, the assessee has not
brought anything on record based on materials to dispel the results of the
enquiries conducted by the revenue. As such, the onus was upon the
assessee to counter the statements of the parties collected during search
proceedings of various persons as well as the documents gathered
therein. Accordingly, all these documents/details cannot be brushed
aside merely on the contention of the assessee that the opportunity of
cross examination was not afforded to him and material was not found
from his premises. The assessee has admitted the income of bogus long-
term capital gain in the statement furnished under section 132(4) of the
Act which was subsequently reaffirmed about 3 weeks later in his own
handwriting. Therefore, the contention of the assessee that he has given
such statement/admission of income under stress or coercion is not
believable/ acceptable. There were various statements of brokers, entry-
operators and other players who accepted to have been involved in
providing accommodation entries by way of dubious techniques with the
purpose of avoiding the tax liability. These statements were not retracted
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 83 rather these were reaffirmed and restated before the authorities under
PMLA. Likewise Shri RK Kedia the broker of the assessee indeed made
a retraction but soon thereafter filed an affidavit to by re-affirming with
this original statement. Furthermore, all the statement furnished by Shri
RK Kedia or other witnesses like Sirish C Shah, JagdishPurohit were
backed by the documents and other materials recovered during the
search proceedings. All these documents were duly cross checked, cross
tallied which establishes the complete chain depicting the flow of
transaction. Thus the statements were duly supported by the
incriminating documents. The learned DR further submitted that once
the assessee admitted to the unexplained income, it can be disputed at
higher forum without retracting such statement before appropriate
authority. At the same time, such retraction has to be backed by adequate
materials. The learned DR in support of his contention relied on the
judgements as detailed below: 75. In the above judgements of Hon'ble Delhi High Court the CBDT
circulars have also been dealt wherein it was discouraged to the revenue
officers by stating that there should not be any force/coercion for the
admission of any income on the assessee. As such, there has to be other
materials available on record for the income of the assessee besides the
statements recorded during the search and survey operations. In the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 84 present case, there are enough materials besides the statements of
various parties including the assessee proving that the assessee has
earned bogus long-term capital gain. There were many glaring facts that
the companies, in whose scrip the assessee has generated bogus long-
term capital gain, were neither carrying out sufficient business
operations nor having any future business plan. Therefore, any abnormal
rise in the price of the script that too within a short period of time cannot
be justified. In such facts and circumstances there is more onus upon the
assessee to justify the nature and source of credit and genuineness of the
transactions. Likewise there were investigation reports from SEBI
wherein it was alleged that these companies were involved in artificially
jacking up the price. In such facts and circumstances, the transactions
cannot be justified merely on the basis that it was carried out on the
stock exchange and through the banking channel. The learned DR in
support of his contention relied on the following judgements: 76. The learned DR also contended that the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT reported
in 214 ITR 801 regarding the principle of preponderance of human
probabilities should be adopted in the given facts and circumstances
after evaluating the surrounding circumstances. The learned DR further
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 85 contended that the assessee has not brought anything against the
concurrent finding of the authorities below that these companies were
managed and controlled by the entry-operators to provide the
accommodation entries in the market. These concurrent findings were
based on various statements and the documents found during the search
proceedings. Therefore such concurrent findings should not be hampered
based on finding given in the case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal. In a
situation where there were several differences in fact and circumstances
of both the cases as discussed, the decision given in case of other
assessee earlier assessment year in own case of assessee cannot be relied
for the reason that decision in those batches of appeal were pronounced
on the question of jurisdiction and not on the basis of merits. It is settled
law that decision of a court is precedent only for the issue which has
been decided in such order. The learned DR in support of his contention
relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Sun
Engineering Limited reported in 198 ITR 297. 77. We have duly considered rival contentions and perused material
available on record. According to the assessee, all the minor details
brought to notice of the Bench by the ld.counsel for the Revenue have
been considered in the cases of the assessee's father and mother viz. Shri
Brij Bhusan Singal and Smt. Uma Singal i.e. ITA No.1415 to
1417/Del/2018; 1979 to 1481/Del/2018 and 1483 &1484/Del/2018
decided on 7.2.2018 for the Asstt.Years 2013-14 to 2015-16. Copy of
the order has been placed on record by the ld.counsel for the assessee. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 86 78. We have perused this detailed order running into 173 pages. We
will be reproducing major part of this order vide which the Tribunal has
applied its mind on the details brought on its notice. To our
understanding there is no variation in the facts and circumstances and
nature of evidence. The department has cited more than 35 judgment
before the ITAT in the case of Shri Brij Bhusan Singal and citations of
all these judgments have been noticed in para 21 of internal page no.91
of the order. Thereafter, the Tribunal has reproduced comments of the
assessee on all the judgments which have been given in tabulated form
and these comments have been noticed in page no.93 to 144. We find
that ld.cousnel for the Revenue has placed on record copies of following
judgments before us. xxi) Manidhari Stainless Wire Fvt. Ltd, v. Union of India
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT , Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 87 xxii) Rajiv Arora v. Union of India Kishanlal Agarwalta v. The
 Collector of Land Customs & ors. xxiii) Nokia India ( P. Ltd, v. DD1T Vice-Chairman . KV Sangathan v. Girdharilal Yadav 79. A perusal of order in the case of Shri Brij Bhusan Singal would
indicate that most of these orders have also been noticed by the Tribunal
viz. Bhagirath Aggarwal Vs. CIT , CIT Vs. Nova Promoters & Finlease
P.Ltd . and CIT Vs. N.R. Portfolio P.Ltd . (supra) and most of these
decisions have been considered by the Tribunal which are part of this
order. The Tribunal thereafter did its own research and tabulated some
sixty two judgments which will be discernible in the finding of the
Tribunal, which we are going to take note on this point. Therefore, we
are fully convinced that there is no disparity on facts though some
artificial attempts have been made at the end of the ld.counsel for the
Revenue because of novelty of eloquence possessed by Shri G.C.
Srivastava for persuading us to believe that facts are distinguishable, but
we fail to persuade ourselves to concur with him. Therefore, at this
stage, we deem it appropriate first to take note of question framed by the
Co-ordinate Bench in the cases of father of appellant no.1 and others
which reads as under: The Assesses herein made a categorical request for allowing an
 opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose statements
 were intended to be used against them; however, no such
 opportunity was provided to the Assesses. The Assesses was
 directed to appear on certain dates to cross-examine such
 persons but on the appointed dates, none of the parties turned
 up though Assesses were duly present on the specified dates
 through their Authorised Representative. The learned assessing
 officer vide para number 4.11 of his assessment order has
 discussed this issue. It was stated that the opportunity to
 cross-examine Mr. Rajkumar Kedia and Sri Manish Arrora was
 granted to the assessee by issuing summons under section 131 of the act directing these parties to appear on 06/12/2016 but
 both of them did not appear. The assessee vide letter dated
 19/12/2016 once again requested that if any adverse
 inference against the assessee is drawn on the basis of the
 statement of these persons, an opportunity to cross-examine
 them may kindly be provided. The learned AO issued summons
 to 15 other parties under section 131 of the act to appear on
 26/12/2016, however, none appeared on the appointed date.
 Therefore, the learned assessing officer stated that finding in
 this case is not merely based on the oral statements given by
 these entry operators, but it is also based on documentary
 evidences recovered during the course of search in form of
 electronic data. It was further held by him that these
 statements corroborate the evidences found. Then he stated
 that the main person of the group Mr. Neeraj singal during the
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 89 course of his statement recorded on 24/4/2015 was asked to
cross-examine Shri Raj Kumar Kedia however, in answer to
question number 25 he stated that he does not want to cross-
examine Mr. Rajkumar Kedia, Shri Manish Arora or Shri Ankur
Agarwal. The learned assessing officer further stated that
cross-examination cannot be right and it is not required by law. For this proposition, he relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble
Allahabad High Court in Moti Lal Padmapat Udyog Limited vs.
CIT , 160 Taxman 233 and the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in satellite engineering Ltd vs. Union of India , 1983
ELT 2177 Bombay. He further relied upon the decision of the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT vs. Nova promoters and Fin
lease private limited 342 ITR 169 where in para number 27
where non-provision of opportunity to cross-examination of
certain persons were not found fatal to the assessment.
Against this, the assessee has also put his case that non-
provision of cross-examination opportunity is fatal to the
assessment. In this background, whether the assessee has
been granted the opportunity of the cross-examination or not is
required to be seen. The fact, which has not been denied by the
learned authorised representative that Mr. Neeraj Singal in his
statement dated 24/4/2015 was offered an opportunity to
cross-examine Mr. Rajkumar Kedia. However, in answer to
question number 25, he refused and stated that he does not
want to cross-examine Sri R. K. Kedia or Shri Manish Aurora or
Shri Ankur Agarwal. Apparently, the search took place on
13/06/2014 and first notice was issued under section 153A on 8/9/2014. The first notice under section 143 (2) and 142 (1) was issued on 25/7/2016. Therefore, at the time when the
statement of Sri Neeraj single was recorded on 24/4/2015, It
was not known whether the statement of Mr. Rajkumar Kedia,
Manish Aurora, et cetera would be used against him or not.
Therefore, apparently at that particular time assessee did not
thought it fit to cross-examine them. Hence, apparently such
opportunity cannot be said to be an opportunity of cross-
examination granted to the assessee with respect to the
addition. The opportunity of cross-examination in present case
is also important because of the reason that Mr. Rajkumar
Kedia subsequently retracted his statement. This issue has
been decided by the coordinate bench in assessee's own case
vide order dated 31/10/2018, wherein it has been held that
material found during search cannot be incriminating material
as statements recorded by the revenue of Mr. Rajkumar Kedia,
Manish Arora and others were used by revenue without
granting cross opportunity. The issue of the cross-examination
was dealt with by the coordinate bench as under:- The coordinate bench further relied upon the decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in case of Andaman Timber Industries ( Supra)
and several other judicial precedents and thereafter noted in
para number 113 of the order as under:- In the above paragraph, the coordinate bench has already
given a finding that the persons whose statements were
recorded at the times of search, later on retracted from the
statement and thereafter further withdrew the retraction.
Therefore, no Reliance can be placed on the testimony of the
said persons who are taking contrary stands. It was further
held that on the appointed date, it could not be said that the
opportunity to cross-examination was provided to the assessee
although; the statements of third parties were used against the
assessee. The coordinate bench thereafter referred the decision
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 92 of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT Vs Eastern
Commercial Enterprises (1994) 210 ITR 103 and circular issued
by the central board of direct taxes and further held in para
number 117 of the decision as under:- In the present case, also the assessee sought opportunity of
cross-examination of the witnesses whose statements are used
by the learned assessing officer against the assessee for
making the addition. The assessee has contested the
truthfulness of the statement of the witnesses recorded by the
assessing officer. The truthfulness is also tested by the
changing stands frequently. It is also not for the assessing
officer to decide that no opportunity is necessary because he is
not aware what could be the purpose for the cross-examination
asked by the assessee. Therefore not granting of opportunity of
the cross-examination of the brokers Sri RK Kedia, Manish
Arora, Ankur Agarwal, directors of the companies who have
purchased shares from the assessee through electronic
platform of the Bombay stock exchange/ NSE and various other
people as were mentioned in the assessment order is fatal to
the assessment made by the assessing officer. We are also conscious of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in case of M. Pirai Choodi vs. ITO 334 ITR 262, wherein
the Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the decision of the
Hon'ble MP High Court in 302 ITR 40 has held that not granting
an opportunity of cross-examination to the assessee is merely
an regularity and therefore the High Court was not correct in
cancelling the order of the adjudicating authority. Therefore,
Hon'ble Supreme Court thought it fit to set aside the matter to
the adjudicating authority with a direction to grant opportunity
of cross-examination to the assessee. Before us, an issue
arises that whether the matter should be set aside to the file of
the learned assessing officer to grant assessee an opportunity
of cross-examination of all the witnesses whose statements
have been used by the learned assessing officer in the
assessment order for the purpose of making the addition under section 68 of the act or to annul the assessment order itself. On
careful perusal of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it
is noted that such direction were given by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of writ petition filed by the assessee before
the Hon'ble High Court and therefore Supreme Court held that
the assessee could have gone before the Commissioner Appeals
to agitate this issue of cross-examination and therefore the
opportunity was available to the assessee at that particular
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 95 point of proceedings. In the present case, assessee has also
 raised the same issue before the learned CIT A that cross-
 examination has not been provided to the assessee despite
 asking for the same. The learned CIT A has also brushed aside
 the above argument of the assessee without giving any
 plausible reason. Therefore, when the assessee has not
 exhausted all the judicial process before reaching to the higher
 forum, but has bypassed them by invoking the different rights,
 then in such circumstances, the violation of the principles of
 natural justice, such as not granting of opportunity of the cross-
 examination, becomes any regularity and not an illegality.
 However, when the assessee has exhausted all the remedies
 available to him by exercising his right of the judicial process,
 then in such circumstances violation of the principle of natural
 justice, such as not granting an opportunity of cross-
 examination of the witness becomes an illegality. Therefore, in
 such circumstances, the order/addition made based on the
 statement of third parties and no opportunity has been granted
 to the assessee for their cross-examination despite repeated
 requests, addition deserves to be deleted. 27. The second issue relates to the evidence and data seized from
 the premises of the Raj Kumar Kedia and pen drive seized from
 the residential premises of Shri Ankur Agarwal in the search
 operations, whether can be used against the assessee. The
 first contention of the assessee is that these documents or
 evidences are not seized from possession and control of
 assessee and they are not shown to have been belonging to
 assessee. Therefore, the presumption under section 132 (4A) and section 292C is not available with revenue. Therefore, the
 legal validity and even the evidentiary value are under
 challenge. The contention of the assessee is that from the
 computer file named, as ABCD.xls is merely the record of
 purchase of shares, which is also recorded in the books of
 accounts of the assessee. Therefore, even otherwise, that does
 not give any occasion to make any adjustment to the total
 income. As the shares were purchased through a broker, Mr.
 Rajkumar kedia naturally he might have also maintained such
 records for purchase of shares. Therefore, there is no infirmity
 in these two statements. Further, another two excel sheets
 found from Mr. Agarwal by the name of Job.xls and Comm.xls
 does not show the name of the assessee. Therefore, there is no
 linkage available with those documents with the assessee.
 Further, the argument of the assessee also find support that it
 was found from Mr. Agarwal therefore, it is owned by him and
 belongs to him. Therefore, it is for him to explain who owns this
 Pen drive. Further, those documents do not show any
 unaccounted income flowing from the assessee to anybody. In
 the second file Comm. xls, the learned assessing officer has
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 96 noted that names of the person such as R. K. Kedia HUF and
others are mentioned. According to the AO All, these persons
are accommodation entry providers as stated by Shri Raj
Kumar Kedia in his statement. Based on these findings, the
learned AO reached at the conclusion that Bush and steels Ltd
family has taken accommodation entry of long-term capital gain
from Raj Kumar Kedia and other entry operators. Firstly, in
that particular file, there is no reference of any name of the
family of the assessee. All these entries are pertaining to a
single's day that is 21/05/2014. The assessing officer has not
correlated with any of the transactions on that date or nearby
that date to show that assessee has incurred this expenditure.
Further, the data allegedly seized from the search of Shri Raj
Kumar Kedia cannot be used against the assessee, unless the
assessee is given an opportunity of cross-examination of the
men with respect to the documents found relating to the
assessee or where the names of the assessee are mentioned.
On this issue also the coordinate bench in assessee's own
case, has held that such material found from third-party who
was not allowed to be cross-examined by the assessee cannot
be relied upon:- 123. Similarly, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of CIT Vs Dharam Pal Prem Chand Ltd. (2007) 295 ITR
106 (supra) held as under: "That the Assessing Officer
had based his assessment order on the report obtained
from the research institute. The correctness of that report
itself having been under challenge by the assessee who
had not only filed objections thereto but also sought
permission on several occasions to cross-examine the
analyst even agreeing to pay the necessary expenses,
the report could not automatically have been accepted.
Since the Assessing Officer did not permit the correctness
or otherwise of the report to be tested, there was a clear
violation of the principles of natural justice by him in
relying upon it to the detriment of the assessee. Even if
the strict rules of evidence may not apply to assessment
proceedings, the basic principles of natural justice would
apply to the facts of the case." 124. On a similar issue,
the Hon'ble Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Prakash Chand Nahta Vs CIT (2008) 301 ITR 134 (supra)
held as under: "That as the Assessing Officer had not
summoned R in spite of the request made under section
131 of the Act, the evidence of R could not have been
used against the assessee and in the absence of
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 98 affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard by
 summoning the said witness the assessment order was
 vitiated." 28. On this issue, Hon Rajasthan High court in case of CIT vs.
 Sunnita Dhadha, against which special leave petition has been
 dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, clinches the issue in
 favour of the assessee. It is held that based on the
 document, which was recovered from a Third party, the income
 cannot be added in the hands of the assessee, without giving
 cross examination. Accordingly, the documents seized and
 found from Shri Raj Kumar Kedia and Shri Ankur Agarwal
 cannot be used for addition in the hands of the assessee. The
 assessee has also referred to several other judicial precedents
 canvassing the above proposition. 29. In view of our above findings, findings of the coordinate bench
 in assessee's own case for earlier years, and based on the
 various judicial precedent relied upon, we do not agree that
 document seized from third-party can be used for making
 addition in the hands of the assessee without assessee being
 granted an opportunity of cross-examination of those parties. 30. Further, the assessing officer has heavily relied upon the
 various orders passed by The Securities and Exchange Board
 Of India in various companies in which the assessee has
 earned the long-term capital gain as well as in case of the
 assessee. First Such order relied upon is interim ex parte
 orders dated 19/12/2014 passed in case of M/s First
 financial services Ltd and M/s Redford global Ltd. The learned
 CIT-A was also heavily harping upon the orders of the SEBI for
 confirming the addition. In interim order in Redford global Ltd,
 dated 19/12/2014 assessee was restricted to access the
 securities market till further directions. Subsequently, on
 20/09/2017, SEBI passed an order in that company holding
 that there are no adverse findings against the aforementioned
 82 entities, which included the family of the assessee, and the
 assessee himself with respect to their role in the manipulations
 in prices of the script of the company. Therefore, it revoked the
 original order passed on 19/12/2014. Similarly, in case of
 first, financial services Ltd; the learned assessing officer took
 note of interim order passed on 19/12/2014. SEBI passed t
 final order on 02/04/2018. Vide para number 74 and 90 of
 that order[WTM/GM/EFD/ 1 /2018-19], SEBI has given a
 clean chit to the assessee and his family members as under:- CONCLUSION
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 101 89. As regards FFSL, the sequence of events is that one
of its directors, Natarajan, Noticee No. 4 entered into an
MoU on 27th May, 2010 with BP Jhunjhunwala, Noticee
No.6 (who consciously manipulated the scrip price later,
i.e. during 15 May, 2012 to 8th February 2013), to
acquire 58.08 percent of paid-up share capital of FFSL. It
has been brought out in the investigation that FFSL got
its trading suspension on BSE (that was operating for a
period between June, 2000 to July, 2011) revoked on 8th
July, 2011. It traded for just two days on July 8, 2011
and November 16, 2011. In the meanwhile, the company
made two tranches of preferential issue - one in
December 2011 and the other in April, 2012. Soon after
the expiry of the lock-in period, the preferential allottees
started trading and exiting taking advantage of the huge
price rise that was prevailing then and made gains. The
investigation was done at the behest of letters received
from Director General of Income Tax (Inv.), as the
background of this order states. 90. In the ultimate analysis, I am driven to the conclusion
that such fraudulent schemes are conceived and
executed by a set of core entities which are connected
and which are bound by the common objective of making
wrongful gains by manipulating the market and
undermining its integrity. In this process, certain entities
are lured into the artifice with the promise of quick
returns but their roles do not extend to price manipulation
or facilitating such manipulations by means of fund
transfers or any other activity of abetment. The whole
scenario covering various entities with different motives
makes it imperative for the regulator to step in and
secure the market place by weeding out those entities
which have misused the securities market and meting
out deterrent penalties on such entities. 91. The limitations in an investigation of this magnitude
was realized and the SEBI Board had decided in
December 2016 to restrict its scope of actions to those
entities that are connected to the company involved in the
price manipulation, i.e. LTP contributors and the
company and its directors if connection or relationship is
established with the market manipulation. Keeping this
background in mind, on a review of the entire
proceedings beginning from the SCN, the replies and
submissions of the entities and the stage at which the
entities stand today, I am inclined to continue with the
debarment and restraint orders against certain entities,
including the company and its noticee directors, and
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 102 certain other entities who are observed to be liable in the
 relevant parts of this order, based on their connection
 with the company; or market manipulation; or their role
 as conduits in fund transfer to the market manipulators.
 Accordingly, I am inclined to pass orders against various
 noticees as shown under the head 'Directions'. ............ 93. As against the remaining noticees, the interim
 directions issued vide interim orders dated December 19,
 2014 and August 11, 2015 and confirmed vide
 confirmatory orders dated April 20, 2015, June 02, 2016,
 June 14, 2016 and August 25, 2016 shall stand revoked,
 with immediate effect. ...... 95. The Hon'ble SAT had directed SEBI to pass final
 orders in the instant matter on or before 31st of March,
 2018. However, due to intervening holidays from 29th of
 March to 1st of April, 2018, the same is being passed on
 the 2nd April, 2018, in due deference with the orders of
 the Hon'ble Tribunal. It is relevant to bring on record that
 the hearing for all entities got concluded on 22nd of
 March, 2018 and the last submissions were received on
 26th of March, 2018. 96. A copy of this order shall be served on the Director
 General of Income Tax (Inv.), Delhi and the Principal
 Directors of Income Tax (Inv.) Kolkata and Chandigarh,
 for such action, as deemed appropriate at their end." 31. Almost similar orders were passed in all the companies
 wherever the income tax department asked the SEBI to enquire.
 The assessee has placed all these orders at page number 302 -
 419 of the paper book. Furthermore, the para number 96 of the
 above order clearly shows that the intimation is also given to
 The Director General Of Income Tax Investigation, New Delhi
 and The Principal Director Of Income Tax Investigation Kolkata
 and Chandigarh for necessary action. From this, it is apparent
 that reliance on the interim order of securities exchange control
 Board of India by the revenue authorities is misplaced as in
 each of these companies in which the income tax department
 requested SEBI to investigate has given a clean chit to the
 assessee and his family. Therefore, reliance on SEBI interim
 order was misplaced and even otherwise now do not survive in
 view of subsequent final orders of SEBI. 32. The learned AO also heavily relied upon the cash trail of the
 bank accounts of the purchaser companies. He stated that cash
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 103 was deposited in several bank accounts and after 3- 7 layers
same reaches the bank account of the companies. From such
cash coming through several bank accounts to the bank
account of purchaser companies was used for buying the
shares held by assessee. Stock exchange trading is screen
based, it is not possible to know who the buyer, and seller is.
Only prices offered along with quantity is shown. Anybody who
bids for purchase or sale of those shares can enter in to
trading. It is an electronic trading platform whenever an
assessee buys or sales the share, in either case identity of
the other party, i.e. buyer or seller nor the timing at which the
shares are purchased or sold by the other party are known
beforehand unless it is a synchronized trading. No such
allegation is made by the ld AO nor has SEBI found it so.
Assessee has sold all the shares through the recognized share
broker registered with the SEBI on online trading platform of
the Bombay stock exchange after the payment of the securities
transaction tax, payments are settled by the settlement
mechanism of the stock exchange to the broker, and in turn the
broker makes payment to the seller, the assessee. Money
comes in to the bank account of the broker through settlement
mechanism of stock exchange. As it is apparent from the order
of the securities and Exchange Board of India, No such
transactions entered into by the assessee are not at all the
synchronized transactions .There is no involvement alleged of
the selling broker of the assessee involved in such
synchronized trades. of on the Bombay stock exchange. There
is no such finding given by the securities and exchange Board
of India or Bombay stock exchange / National Stock exchanges
as per its surveillance scheme and mechanism. Further, there
is no evidence gathered by the assessing officer that the cash
deposited in the bank account of the multiple companies is
given by assessee. There is no funding pattern available,
wherein the name of the assessee appears. Furthermore the
notices issued by the assessing officer under section 133 (6) were either remained unserved or not responded by those
companies, for which no fault can be found with the assessee.
In fact, when the learned assessing officer has relied up on
statements of the real owners or operators of those companies,
then the learned assessing officer should have asked them to
provide the information which AO has sought under section
133 (6) from those companies. As mentioned in the order of the
ld AO, that the companies who have purchased the shares are
having their Permanent Account Numbers. Naturally, to trade
on BSE / NSE platforms, those companies have their client
registration with the stock exchanges also according to the
established KYC Norms. According to trading regulations the
securities have been transferred in their demat accounts. For
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 104 the purposes of holding of shares in demat accounts, those
companies are also required to have their KYC with the
depositories. Further the companies are required to file their
return of income compulsorily, they hold the PAN, AO should
have enquired with the AO of those companies. There is no
finding that what happened to the shares purchased by those
companies, no inquiry of their demat holding is also made.
Further, there is no finding that prior to purchases of those
shares whether throe companies have deposited margins also
as per Stock exchange and SEBI Norms. There is nothing
placed on record to show that those companies are debarred
from trading in securities or not. All these investigations /
finding of ld AO have many loopholes, which remains
unanswered. In the statement of the director of the penny stock
company stated that the preferential allottees are involved in
market manipulation of the prices of the script, however, it is
contrary to the order of the securities and exchange board of
India. Such references available in the statement of Director of
Rander Corporation at Q No. 13. Further, the claim of the ld AO
is that the companies whose shares are purchased are not
carrying on any business whereas, in answer to Q No. 32 Shri
Kushal Praveen Shah Director of Anukaran Commercial
Enterprise Ltd has given the detailed description of the
business been carried out by that company. He has stated that
out of 15 crores the Rs. 1.5 crore was for acquisition of the
shares and further Rs. 13.5 crores were deposited to BMC to
carry out some infrastructure project. Further, in the statement
of Shri Ram Kumar Kedia the reference was made of Mr.
Jagdish Purohit (such statement was retracted and then once
again confirmed). However, in the statement of Shri Jagdish
Purohit there is no reference of any work carried out with Shri
Raj Kumar Kedia. The ld AO has merely stated that as Mr.
Jagdish Purohit is an accommodation entry provider and as Mr.
Raj Kumar Kedia has named Mr. Jagdish Purohit, without
corroborating has linked assessee's case with Jagdish Purohit.
The ld AO has also stated by the statement of Shri Devesh
Upadhaya noted that one Mr. Bikash Surekha was involved in
trading of many scripts and also held that Mr. Sanjoy Dey was
operating the terminal and then entering into synchronize
trading. However, none of these persons was examined to
ascertain that how they have entered into synchronized
trading. Necessarily such synchronized trading has to be with
the broker of the assessee. No such link was established.
Furthermore, merely because of the matching of the transaction
with stock exchange the ld AO reached at the conclusion that
there is a synchronized transaction. Surprisingly, no such
synchronized trading was referred to SEBI. On this issue on
synchronized trade no orders of SEBI were placed before us
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 105 under SEBI (prohibition of fraudulent and unfair trade practices
 relating to securities market) Regulations 2003, and against the
 broker for violating provisions of SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub
 Brokers) Regulations 1992. Merely an action under the Income
 Tax Act, 1961 against those brokers it is not proved that
 actually synchronized trade has taken place. Further, the
 allegation of the ld Assessing Officer of providing exit to the
 assessee by Dream light Exim Pvt. Ltd and Duari Marketing
 Pvt. Ltd only the stock exchange trading sales detail of the
 assessee are maintained which are undisputed as assessee
 has recorded them in the books of accounts but time and date
 stamp of the buyers were not matched. This is also merely an
 allegation. Further, those directors, real owners of those
 companies have not been cross-examined by the assessee
 despite requested by assessee. Therefore, in these
 circumstances, it cannot be proved that these are the dummy
 companies, especially when they are having PAN, KYC with
 stock exchanges, DEMAT Accounts, assessed by income tax
 Departments etc . For receipt of money through various layers,
 they should have been responsible in their own cases to show
 the genuineness of those funds. Assessee cannot be
 compelled to show the same. In view of this, the allegation of
 the cash trail of the buyers of those shares remains unproved
 and merely an allegation. 33. Next, claim of the assessing officer that many beneficiaries of
 the bogus long-term capital gains have disclosed the above sum
 as their undisclosed income. According to us, If some other
 parties have obtained the bogus long-term capital gain in their
 own case, in some of the case even the SEBI, while exonerated
 the assessee and his family, has implicated some of the parties
 who obtained the bogus long-term capital gain, but it does not
 lead that assessee is also sailing into the same boat. Even
 otherwise, there are thousands of entities who have earned the
 long-term capital gain in those scripts, which are challenged by
 the ld AO who are also exonerated by the SEBI by various
 orders, along with the orders passed in case of the assessee
 and his family members or individual orders. Hence, cases are
 also that in those persons case their claim of LTCG is not
 challenged. Interestingly the ld AR also referred to the news
 item in Moneylife.in dated 10/4/2018 where in internal Memo
 of SEBI dated 29/12/2016 is discussed. It shows that SEBI
 issued an elaborate interim order in respect of 12 entities
 connected with LTCG booking. These are First Financial Service
 Ltd, Kailash Auto Finance Ltd, Kamalakshi Finance Corp Ltd,
 Kelvin Fincap Ltd, Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd, Moryo
 Industries Ltd, Pine Animation Ltd, Radford Global Ltd, Eco
 Friendly Food Processing Park Ltd, Esteem Bio Organic Food
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 106 Processing Ltd, Channel Nine Entertainment Ltd and HPC
 Biosciences Ltd. However, in none of these interim orders the
 assessee was found to be involved in any of the wrong doings.
 Such orders of SEBI are also elaborately discussed in this
 order itself. Therefore, merely because some of the persons
 have disclosed the LTCG earned by them as dubious, does not
 improve or hamper the case of the assessee and his family
 members. 34. The next issue discussed by the learned assessing officer was
 with respect to the preponderance of the probabilities in para
 number 4.12 of the assessment order. The learned assessing
 officer noted that in the instant case, there are many
 statements duly supported by the evidences that the
 individuals of Bhushan steel Ltd group has received bogus
 long-term capital gain entities s from various companies
 managed and controlled by entry operators. Further, the
 assessee has invested in shares of various penny stock
 companies, which were not doing any meaningful business,
 and even the earning was minimal. No prudent investor will
 ever invest huge sums in a company, which does not have
 history of declaring dividends and sound financial conditions.
 None of investments, losses has been incurred by them. All the
 transactions of the sale of shares have resulted into huge
 abnormal profits, which is not possible in normal course of
 investment. However, evidence-indicating sham transactions by
 all the investors were not found by the Department, but r, the
 pattern of investment, the modus operandi adopted is largely
 same for 100% of investors. The rates of return, pattern of
 movement of funds were glaring, nonexistence of genuine
 business activities of such investors etc. Safely lead to
 conclusion that long-term capital gain received from these
 penny stock company is bogus and taxable. The learned
 assessing officer relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in case of some of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT , 125
 CTR 124. The learned authorized representative vehemently
 opposed the same and stated that long-term capital gain were
 originally disclosed by the assessee in his return of income for
 earlier assessment years for assessment year 2010 - 11 and
 2011 - 12, which were assessed under section 143 (3) of the
 income tax act. Therefore, it is not the case of the revenue that
 there are no positive evidences produced by the assessee. Even
 in those cases, the assessee has produced the complete details
 of the purchase, share applications, payment by cheque, sale
 on a stock exchange, receipt of sale consideration and most
 importantly the holding period of those shares in the balance
 sheet of the assessee's which were accepted by the revenue for
 all those years. He therefore submitted that the theory of
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 107 preponderance of probabilities invoked by the learned
assessing officer is merely a conjecture and surmises. He
further stated that when the originally the assessees are
assessed under section 143 (3) of the act, long-term capital
gain were accepted after detailed enquiries, now it cannot be
said that the capital gain earned by the assessee is to be
taxed u/s 68 of the act on the principles of preponderance of
the probabilities. He further submitted that it was argued
before the bench in appeal from earlier years that no
incriminating evidences were found during the course of
search. The order is awaited. He further stated that the
preponderance of probabilities would come into play only when
the basic test of direct and factual evidences fails. He stated
that in the present case the complete evidences have been
placed by the assessee before the revenue authorities, they are
not found to be false but only allegation has been made that
transactions are sham. He further stated that the decision
relied upon by the learned AO of honourable Supreme Court is
quite distinct on its fact. On careful analysis of the evidences
placed before us, findings rendered by the lower authorities,
we proceed to consider the taxability of the long-term capital
gain earned by the assessee under section 68 of the income tax
act whether in situations like this, one may fall into realm of
"preponderance of probability" where there are many probable
factors, some in favour of the assessee and some may go
against the assessee. However, the probable factors have to be
weighed on material facts so collected. Here, in this case,
material facts strongly indicate a probability supported by the
evidences produced by the assessee that assessee has earned
long-term capital gain on sale of the shares. The another very
strong probability arises is that assessee has introduced its
unaccounted money in the guise of profit on sale of shares
holding it is a long term capital gain and showing it is a tax
exempt income. The probable factors could have gone against
the assessee, only if,
 i. there would have been some evidence found from
 searches conducted by the department that Assessee
 was the person who at the time of purchase of the shares
 has issued the cheques to the companies for purchase of
 shares and has received cash back and at the time of
 sale of those shares have paid cash to the alleged by or
 their associates, and then only has received the cheques
 towards sale of those shares. ii. Such evidences found were duly corroborated with the
 statements of the parties
 iii. Cross examination of those parties afforded to the
 assessee
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 108 iv. Opportunity to the assessee to confront and rebut the
 materials gathered. Firstly, No such evidences were found during the course of
search and all those evidences which are relied upon by the
learned revenue authorities have been held by the coordinate
bench in assessee's own case to not to be an incriminating
material which can impact the taxable income of the assessee
and his family members. Even the investigation made by the
Securities and Exchange Commission of India has also held
that assessee is not at all involved in the manipulation of the
prices of those scripts. The revenue has also not shown us any
security and exchange Board of India's order which even
implicated the share broker, which is alleged to have arranged
these long-term capital gains fraudulently for the assessee. At
least something would have been unearthed from such high-
level investigation by two Central Government authorities.
Further whatever evidences were found by the revenue; they
were not confronted to the assessee for rebutting the same.
Statements recorded of several persons by revenue were not
allowed to be cross-examined by the assessee. In this
situations, only on the theory of preponderance of probabilities
addition cannot be sustained. The theory of "preponderance of
probability‟ is applied to weigh the evidences of either side and
draw a conclusion in favour of a party which has more
favourable factors in his side. The conclusions have to be
drawn based on certain admitted facts and materials and not
based on presumption of facts that might go against assessee.
Once nothing has been proved against the assessee with aid of
any direct material especially when various rounds of
investigation have been carried out, then nothing can be
implicated against the assessee. The reliance placed by the
learned AO on the decision of the honourable Supreme Court is
clearly distinguishable. So far as the facts of that case with the
case on hand before u are compared, in that particular
situation before the honourable Supreme Court where the
assessee was constantly earning money from the jackpot,
further was not having any losses, it was confessed before the
settlement commission that the expenditure incurred or the
losses suffered by the assessee have been adjusted against
the unaccounted income of the assessee, books of the
assessee did not show in that particular case any drawings for
purchase of tickets and incurring travel expenditure to 3
different cities prior to the date of winning of the jackpot races. The assessee has given up the winning from the jackpots
immediately on same becoming taxable due to the amendment
in the income tax act. Contradistinction to the above facts in the
present case, assessee is consistently an investor in the
shares. The holding period of the shares is also quite long. The
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 109 assessee is also a shareholder in various companies of the
 Bhushan steel group limited. The assessee has shown
 purchase consideration paid by the cheque and recorded in its
 books of accounts and accepted by the revenue in earlier years
 under the scrutiny assessment. The prices at which the shares
 have been sold are traded prices on a stock exchange on which
 assessee does not have any control. The regulatory authority
 i.e. securities and exchange board of India, stock exchange
 authorities has not questioned the conduct of the assessee and
 broker selling the shares , on price variation in the shares of
 the companies in which assessee has made investment. The
 assessee has also paid securities transaction tax on the sale of
 shares and the sale consideration has been received from the
 SEBI registered broker against which there is no allegation. In
 view of this, it is apparent that assessee has produced
 overwhelming evidences that were not found to be false. In
 view of this, the reliance by the learned AO on the decision of
 the honourable Supreme Court is misplaced. Therefore In view
 of this we do not subscribe to the opinion of the learned
 assessing officer that on the preponderance of the probabilities
 the income should have been taxed in the hands of the
 assessee. 35. The ld AR has submitted the plethora of judicial precedents
 where in it has been held that in such circumstances, addition
 u/s 68 of the act cannot be made and such income is
 chargeable to tax as a long-term capital gain only. He
 submitted that all these decisions are also rendered on similar
 facts where the broker was tainted; cross-examination was not
 afforded, changing statements of broker, Allegation of
 accommodation entry provider etc. He further submitted that
 almost all the authorities have held that either the
 assessment is invalid on account of violation of principles of
 natural justice or on the complete documentation furnished or
 on the basis of changing statements of broker or on inadequate
 evidences or the facts that such evidences are not reliable as
 in the case of the assessee same are held to be not
 incriminating material on which addition can be made. We also
 have found that the facts of the issue before us are also similar
 to the facts dealt with by those judicial authorities. 36. As the issue involved before us is of chargeability of long term
 capital gain as undisclosed income of the assessee u/s 68 of
 the act, we have also conducted some research and found
 that now many high courts and coordinate benches have held
 in favour of the assessee. In one of the cases, SLP filed by the
 revenue against the order of the Honourable Bombay high court
 has also been dismissed by Honourabel Supreme Court. Many
 of the decision of the coordinate benches have also discussed
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 110 the facts similar to the issue before us. Such recent cases are
listed here under:- 37. The Revenue has also relied up on some decisions we also deal
 with them. The learned departmental representative has
 vehemently relied upon the decision of honourable Bombay
 High Court in case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. Principal
 Commissioner Of Income Tax reported at 89 taxman.com 196.
 We have also perused the decision of the coordinate bench
 dated 18/07/2016 in that case , which was upheld by the
 honourable High Court. Issue before the coordinate bench was
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 115 that whether, on sale of shares profit earned by the assessee
can be charged to tax as capital gain or business income. In
that particular case, the payments were made in cash for
purchase of shares. The addresses of the companies who
shares are purchased and address of brokers are also the
same. Brokers who sold the shares did not respond to the
inquiries of the learned assessing officer. Therefore, on the
appreciation of the facts, coordinate bench held that the income
has been correctly taxed by the AO as business income of the
assessee whereas the assessee claimed it to be a long-term
capital gain. The assessee challenged the case before the
honourable High Court and it was held that there is no
substantial question of law arising. Firstly speaking the case
before us is not of chargeability of long-term capital gain as
business income or as a long-term capital gain. Nevertheless,
the issue is whether the sale of shares resulting into profits in
the hands of the assessee, which are held for more than 12
months, is chargeable to tax as long-term capital gain or as
undisclosed income of the assessee. The case of the assessee
is supported by the purchase bills, payment by cheques and
sale by assessee on recognized stock exchange through a
registered broker receiving the sale consideration through the
settlement mechanism of the exchange by cheque. There is no
doubt on the brokers who purchased shares and on the brokers
who sold the shares. In the case before the honourable Bombay
High Court, addition was on account of absence of any
information coming from the broker who sold the shares when
enquired by the AO. In the present case, the AO did not raise
any question to the broker who sold the shares. It is in fact, the
broker who sold the shares logged in to his terminal and sold
the shares on electronic online platform of the exchange. It is
not the case of the assessee that the shares have not been sold
by the assessee on the stock exchange. Here, the learned
assessing officer is challenging the whole cycle of the
transaction, starting from purchase of the shares by the
assessee from the market or on preferential allotment of shares
of some of the companies and subsequently holding it and
selling it on stock exchange at prevailing prices as sham
transaction as an attempt to convert the unaccounted money of
the assessee in the form of non-taxable long-term capital gain.
Further, in the case before the honourable Bombay High Court
the simple issue was that there was an unusual rise in the
price of the share and no enquiry was conducted by the any
regulatory authority. In the case before us, the securities and
exchange Board of India has conducted a detailed enquiry and
has held that assessee is not involved in manipulation of
prices of any scripts. Therefore, it was held by the SEBI that
the transaction, as far as purchase and sale of the shares on
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 116 Bombay stock exchange is concerned, was untainted.
 Therefore, the facts of the case before the honourable Bombay
 High Court and facts before us are clearly distinguishable. 38. The 2nd decision relied upon by the learned CIT DR is in case of
 Shri Abhimanyu Soin vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income
 Tax [2018 - TIOL - 733 - ITAT - CHD]. In that particular case,
 there was a specific allegation which was proved that there is a
 circular transactions entered into by the assessee's brokers for
 the scrip and further there was no evidence that how a
 Calcutta-based broker from Ludhiana-based assessee has
 received in cash for purchase of the shares on three different
 dates. Apparently, the fact of payment of cash to purchase of
 shares to the broker situated at Kolkata became Primordial.
 Further, the assessee was in United States from 2009 - 2012
 and the case was pertaining to assessment year 2011 - 12,
 where the assessee has made a payment to one of the
 representative, whose name could not be recollected for
 sending money to the broker when it was the first deal with
 the broker. Further, the shares were also not transacted
 through any recognized exchange as apparently the shares
 were traded of a petty private limited company. In addition, the
 assessee could not prove the requisite source of investment
 during the relevant period of investment. The facts of the case
 before the coordinate bench are clearly distinguishable and do
 not apply to the facts of the case before us. In view of this,
 reliance on this decision by revenue is also misplaced. 39. The third decision relied upon by the learned departmental
 representative is of Bangalore bench SMC where the shares
 were purchased off market by the assessee despite having the
 shares of the company listed on the stock exchange. Therefore,
 the facts of this case are also clearly distinguishable from the
 facts before us. 40. The fourth decision relied upon is in case of Chandan Gupta vs.
 CIT , 229 taxman 173 (Punjab and Haryana). In that, particular
 case the assessee expressed its inability to produce the broker
 and the AO conducted inquiries on his own. The quotations
 were also from a Gujarati diary the prices could not be
 substantiated by the assessee. In the present case, the
 assessee has produced all the evidences before the assessing
 officer and the learned AO did not press upon the assessee to
 produce anybody instead of that he went by the standard
 modus operandi as understood by him. Even in the present
 case before us whether the modus operandi is the thinking of
 the learned AO or has he been directed by somebody is not
 known. The prices at which the transactions of sale of shares
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 117 have taken are market rate and there is no allegation as the
 shares were listed on stock exchange. Therefore, the facts of
 the case cited by the learned departmental representative are
 clearly distinguishable. 41. The 5th decision relied upon by the learned CIT DR is with
 respect Balbir Chand maini vs. CIT [340 ITR 161]. In that
 particular case, on examination of the broker the books of
 accounts of the broker could not be produced by him to show
 that he has purchased the shares from the assessee and the
 sale of shares has also not taken place through any stock
 exchange. There were cash deposits in the bank account of the
 broker prior to issue of cheques in the name of the assessee for
 purchase of shares claimed to be the sale proceeds of the
 shares is received in advance. The broker also could not give
 the details of the name of the purchase of the shares. Further, it
 was also found by the AO that the shares sold by the assessee
 were not quoted on the stock exchange and there was no
 trading of those shares on the exchange. The AO further noted
 that it was a closed circuit transaction between some persons.
 The AO further found that the shares claimed to have been sold
 through the broker had not been transferred even at the time of
 making the enquiry by the assessing officer and such sales
 continued to be registered in the name of the assessee.
 Therefore, there was no transfer of share at all in that
 particular case. On these facts, the addition under section 69 was confirmed. On comparison of facts of that, case with the
 facts of the present case clearly shows that such facts do not
 exist before us. 42. The learned CIT DR also relied upon several other decisions
 where for several reasons, the addition on sale of shares
 shown as a long-term capital gain is confirmed in the hands of
 the assessee. However, in most of the decisions cited before us,
 There was an off market purchase by the assessee and the
 assessee could not substantiate with documentary evidences
 the transaction of purchase and sale of the shares. In many of
 the cases cited there were predated contract note issued by the
 broker and the payment for purchase of the shares is made in
 cash and that too off market. , In some of the cases, there was
 no payment by cheque for acquisition of the shares but there
 was an adjustment of profits earned by the assessee through
 those brokers, who generated profits in cash in the name of the
 assessee and purchase price of the shares adjusted by the
 broker against that payment to be made to those assessees. In
 such circumstances, the additions have been confirmed by the
 coordinate benches. Therefore, the facts of those cases are
 clearly distinguishable. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 118 43. The four parties we like to state that despite searches carried
 out on the assessee based on pre search inquiries coupled with
 the search on Mr. Raj Kumar Kedia and recording statements of
 so many persons the ld AO knowing fully well that failure to
 grant cross examine will make all these enquiries fruitless.
 Further, there are loopholes in the evidence relied upon by the
 revenue of not referring the issue of synchronized trading to the
 SEBI. Certain times the conviction under the SEBI Act would
 have been more stringent then the liability under the Tax laws.
 Further, though the AO was having reasonable evidences but
 has unnecessarily took the burden on him of proving that long
 term capital gain earned by the assessee is bogus instead of
 first asking assessee to prove that the above income is exempt
 u/s 10(38) of the Act. After granting full opportunity to the
 assessee to adduce as many evidence as assessee could have
 produce and then should have carried out vast powers
 bestowed upon him under the Income Tax Act, 1961 of
 examining the details furnished by the assessee. The ld AO
 could have also asked the assessee to produce all the persons
 whose statement AO was relying upon. However, the ld AO has
 unnecessarily taken the onus of proving long-term capital gain
 as bogus instead of first asking assessee to prove that the long-
 term capital gain is genuine. The ld AO should have first put
 the burden to put prima facie case in respect of cash credit on
 assessee as to how it was introduced in the books of the
 assessee. However, from the first paragraph of the assessment
 order itself the ld AO alleged that assessee has entered into a
 scam and they by walked into the trap of section 110 of the
 evidence act on him to prove that the long-term capital gain
 earned by the assessee is bogus. The ld AO after that could not
 substantiate his allegations by granting cross-examination to
 the assessee of various persons. It is fatal to the case, as the
 assessment strategy adopted by the ld AO could not prove his
 allegation." 80. After perusal of the above order, we are of the view that there is no
disparity on the facts. All relevant case laws have been considered in
this order. However, during the course of hearing, Shri G.C.Srivastava
has emphasised that in the case of Sanjay Singal, he has voluntarily
disclosed Rs.250 crores on account of bogus long term capital gain in
the statement made under section 132(4) of the Act for the search carried
out on 21 & 27-2-2014. He pointed out that not such voluntary
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 119 disclosure was available in the case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal.
According to the ld.authorised representative, this disclosure was made
by Shri Sanjay Singal on his behalf as well as on behalf of entire family.
Therefore, he is bound with his disclosure which was not retracted. On
the other hand, the ld.counsel for the assessee made reference to CBDT
Circular Bearing no.286/2003 dated 103.2003 which has been further
explained in the subsequent circulars. The Board has emphasised that no
disclosure be taken from the assessee and endeavour be made for
collection of the material because according to the Board the Department
used to take voluntary disclosure under section 132(4) of the Act and
stopped further investigation. This type of declaration later on retracted
by the assessee nor honoured in the return filed by them, and the
department failed to corroborate such disclosure. Thus, according to
him, there is no disparity of such event on this point. No doubt, the
disclosure or admission made under section 132(4) of the Act during
the course of search proceedings is an admissible evidence but not
conclusive one. This presumption of admissibility of evidence is a
rebuttable one, and if an assessee is able to demonstrate with the help of
some material that such admission was either mistaken, untrue or based
on misconception of facts, then solely on the basis of such admission no
addition is required to be made. It is true that admission being
declaration against an interest are good evidence, but they are not
conclusive, and a party is always at liberty to withdraw the admission by
demonstrating that they are either mistaken or untrue. In law, the
retracted confession even may form the legal basis of addition, if the
AO is satisfied that it was true and was voluntarily made. But the basing
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 120 the addition on a retracted declaration solely would not be safe. It is not
a strict rule of law, but only rule of prudence. As a general rule, it is
unsafe to rely upon a retracted confession without corroborative
evidence. Due to this grey situation, CBDT has issued Circular
No.286/2/2003 prohibiting the departmental officials from taking
confession in the search. The CBDT is of the view that often the officials
used to obtain confessions from the assessee and stop further recovery of
the material. Such confessions have been retracted and then the addition
could not withstand the scrutiny of the higher appellate authority,
because no material was found supporting such addition. It is pertinent
to observe that in a large number of authoritative pronouncements, it has
been held that merely on the basis of declaration addition should not be
made. The alleged declaration should be supported with unexplained
expenditure or assets discernible in the seized material during the course
of search. No such things was unearthed by the Revenue, therefore,
decision relied upon by the ld.CIT-DR in the case of Bhagirath
Aggarwal Vs. CIT(Supra ) is distinguishable on facts. This decision has
already been considered by the Coordinate Bench while dealing with the
case of father of the assessee. 81. In his next fold of contentions, he submitted that there was no
necessity to provide opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose
statements were recorded by the Revenue during the course of search.
In other words, Revenue can rely upon third party statement recorded
from the back without giving opportunity to the assessee to cross-
examine them. This aspect has been dealt with by the ITAT in the
finding reproduced above, and the Coordinate Bench put reliance upon
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 121 the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber
Industries Vs. Commissioner of Custom & Excise , 281 CTR 241 (SC).
The Tribunal has reproduced the finding of Hon'ble Supreme Court
while rejecting all the contentions of the Revenue, and held that if
opportunity is not being granted to the assessee, then that part of the
evidence has to be excluded. While persuading us to ignore this finding
of the Co-ordinate Bench, the ld.counsel for the Revenue put emphasis
on the judgment of Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana in the case of Smt.Kusum Lata Thakral Vs. CIT , 185 Taxman 237. The facts in this
case are that the assessee has received gift in cash. According to the
Revenue, in order to prove gift as genuine, the assessee has to prove
identify of the donor, genuineness of the transaction and credit-
worthiness of the donor. The assessee proved identity, but failed to
prove genuineness and credit-worthiness. Donor has denied advancing
of any gifts to the assessee, and in that background the assessee argued
that she should have been given an opportunity to cross-examine that
donor. This plea has been rejected and the Hon'ble Court has observed
that there is no necessity to grant opportunity. We have perused this
proposition, but it is not applicable to the facts of the present case. It is
pertinent to observe that onus was upon the assessee to prove that the
gifts are genuine and in order to discharge that onus, it was incumbent
upon the assessee to produce the donor. Those donors should be witness
of the assessee, and even if denial of the donor is excluded, then also the
assessee failed to discharge her onus to prove genuineness of the gifts. In other words, non-granting of cross-examination of the donor had not
impacted case of the Revenue, because it is the assessee who has to first
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 122 prove genuineness of the gifts and it should be the endevour of the
assessee to bring donor in the witness box and take a declaration from
him about giving of gifts. Thus, it was not duty of the Revenue to call
for the donor and then provide an opportunity to the assessee; because
that exercise will not take the case any further in favour of the assessee.
At the most the denial of donor could be ignored that it was not positive
evidence used by the Revenue for rejecting the explanation of the
assessee. The Tribunal has held that the assessee failed to prove
genuineness of the gifts. In this background, there was no opportunity
provided to the assessee for cross-examination, which otherwise ought to
have been granted. This judgment is to be read in this line. The
judgment relied upon the Revenue does not take forward the arguments
of the ld.counsel for the Revenue that there is no need to provide
opportunity to cross examine all those persons whose statements have
been recorded by the Investigating Agency during the course of search at
their residential premises, and more so these judgments cannot be given
preference over the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries (supra) which has been considered by the
Co-ordinate Bench. Similarly, other large numbers of order have been
placed on record. They are distinguishable on facts; they have their own
facts which are not applicable in the instant cases. By referring each
order, we will be unnecessarily making this order more lengthy and
bulky, because Co-ordinate Bench has considered more than hundred of
decisions cited by both the sides, and thereafter the Bench has
researched and referred sixty two orders on this point of law. Bench
thereafter decided the appeals. After going through well reasoned order
 In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 123 in the light of material brought to our notice, we are of the view that
issue in dispute in all these appeals is squarely covered by order of the
Co-ordinate Bench in the case of Shri Brij Bhusan Singal and others
(supra), and hold that the long term capital gain declared by the assessee
and claimed as exempt under section 10(38) are to be treated as genuine
and they are not to be assessed as unexplained cash credit under section
68 of the Act. 82. As discussed earlier, grounds of appeals in all the appeals are
common. Therefore, in view of the above discussion, we allow all the
grounds of appeals and delete addition made by the ld.AO and confirm
by the ld.CIT(A) under section 68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on
account of unexplained cash credit in each appeal i.e.ITA Nos.708, 710,
711/Chd/2018; ITA No.714, 716 and 717/Chd/2018; ITA No.718
&719/Chd/2018; and 705/Chd/2018 83. Similarly, addition made by the AO by estimating the expenses on
commission alleged to have been incurred by the assessee for arranging
such long term capital gain and added under section 69C of the Act on
account of unexplained commission expenses are also deleted in all
these appeals as a consequence to the finding on main issue. 84. In the result, all appeals of the assessees are allowed. Order pronounced in the Court on 20th September, 2021 at Chandigarh. In the cases of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Others Vs. DCIT, Chandigarh (9 Appeals) 124 आदे श क त!ल#प अ&े#षत/Copy of the Order forwarded to : ु ार/ BY ORDER,
 आदे शानस

 उप/सहायक पंजीकार (Dy./Asstt.Registrar)
 आयकर अपील1य अ2धकरण,/ ITAT, Chandigarh

Vk* 1. Date of dictation- 2. Date on which the typed draft is placed before the Dictating Member 3. Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr.P.S./P.S. - 4. Date on which the fair order is placed before the Dictating Member for
 Pronouncement .................... 5. Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk .. 6. Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk.................................. 7. The date on which the file goes to the Assistant Registrar for signature
 on the order.......................... Date of Despatch of the Order..................