Dinesh Choudhary, aged about 37 years, s/o Madhusudan
 Choudhary, resident of Village-Samaldih, P.O. & P.S.- CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANIL KUMAR CHOUDHARY ------ For the Petitioner : Mr. R.N. Sahay, Sr. Advocate
 : Mr. Yashvardhan, Advocate
 : Ms. Kirtivardhan, Advocate
 : Mr. Aditya Aman, Advocate
 For the State : Mrs. Amrita Kumari, Addl. P.P. ------ Order No.02 Dated- 18.02.2025

 Heard the parties. Apprehending his arrest, the petitioner has moved this
 Court for grant of privilege of anticipatory bail in connection with
 Gawan P.S. Case No.87 of 2024 registered under sections 201/
 316(5) /318 (4)/3(5) of the B.N.S., 2023. The Learned Senior Advocate appearing for the petitioner
 submits that the allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner
 in furtherance of common intention with the co-accused persons
 committed cheating and criminal breach of trust as well as caused
 disappearance of the evidence. It is further submitted that the
 allegations against the petitioner are all false and the petitioner has
 been implicated in this case only on the basis of the confessional
 statement of the co-accused person, wherein, he stated that he and
 others used to transfer the misappropriated amount to the bank
 account of the instant petitioner. It is then submitted that the
 petitioner was working as Block Trainer Team at Community Health
 Centre, Koderma and the instant case is filed in Giridih in respect of
 financial misappropriation that took place at Community Health
 Centre, Gawan in the District of Giridih. It is further submitted that
 the petitioner is in no way connected with the alleged financial
 transaction that took place at Community Health Centre, Gawan. It is
 further submitted that the petitioner is not involved in the alleged
 scam done by the higher officials of the community health center; as
 the petitioner was the Block Trainer Team and he has no role in
 release of the payment and the two of the co-accused persons namely
 Pramod Kumar Barnwal being the Block Program Officer-cum-Block
 Accounts Manager who acted as checker and former In-charge
 Medical Officer, Dr. Chandramohan Kumar who acted as maker, to
 whom the OTP was sent and he received the same and only after
 verification of OTP, payment was made. It is further submitted that
 the petitioner has deposited the entire amount of Rs.64,47,993/-. It is
 then submitted that the petitioner undertakes to furnish sufficient
 security including cash security and also undertakes to cooperate
 with the investigation of the case. Hence, it is submitted that the
 petitioner be given the privilege of anticipatory bail. Learned Addl. P.P. opposes the prayer for grant of anticipatory
 bail. Considering the submissions of the counsels and the fact as
 discussed above, I am of the opinion that it is a fit case where the
 abovenamed petitioner be given the privilege of anticipatory bail.
 Hence, in the event of his arrest or surrender within a period of six
 weeks from the date of this order, he shall be released on bail on
 depositing cash security of Rs. 1,00,000/- and on furnishing bail bond
 of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) with two sureties of
 the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned J.M. 1st Class,
 Giridih, in connection with Gawan P.S. Case No.87 of 2024 with the
 condition that the petitioner will cooperate with the investigation of
 the case and appear before the Investigating Officer as and when
 noticed by him and will furnish his mobile number and a copy of his
 Aadhar Card in the court below with the undertaking that he will not
 change his mobile number during the pendency of the case subject to
 the conditions laid down under Section 482 (2) of the Bharatiya
 Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)
Sonu/Gunjan-