Uday Umesh Lalit, CJI 1. These review petitions arise out of the judgment and order

 dated 10.8.20111 passed by this Court in Criminal Appeal Nos. 98-

 99/2009. 2. According to the prosecution, on the night of 22.12.2000

 some intruders entered the area where the Unit of 7 Rajputana

 Rifles of the Indian Army was stationed inside the Red Fort, New

 Delhi. In the firing that was opened by the intruders, three Army

 jawans lost their lives. The intruders then left by scaling the rear- side boundary wall of the Red Fort. This led to the lodging of FIR Digitally signed by Neetu Khajuria Date: 2022.11.03 15:56:28 IST Reason: 1 Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2011) 13 SCC 621 2 No. 688/2000 registered with Kotwali Police Station, New Delhi in

respect of offences punishable under Sections 302 , 307 , 186 , 353 , 120-B , 121 , 121-A , 216 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 18602

read with Sections 25 , 27 , 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 1959, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, Sections 4 and 5 of the

Explosive Substances Act, 1908 and Sections 420 , 468 , 471 , 474 and 34 , IPC. In the investigation, the involvement of the present

review petitioner was made out. 3. The review petitioner, who was tried for said offences, was

awarded death sentence vide judgment and order dated

31.10.2005 passed by the Court of Additional Sessions Judge,

Delhi in Sessions Case Nos. 1/2005, 2/2005, 5/2005, 7/2005,

8/2005, 9/2005, 10/2005 and 11/2005, which arose out of the

aforestated FIR. The award of death sentence was subject to

confirmation by the High Court. 4. The matter was thereafter considered by the High Court in

Death Sentence Reference No. 2/2005 with Criminal Appeal Nos. 891/2005, 892/2005, 907/2005, 927/2005, 944-945/2005,

946/2005, 273/2006 and 504/2006. The view taken by the trial 2 “ IPC ” for short 3 Court was affirmed by the High Court vide its judgment dated

13.9.20073. 5. The matter then reached this Court in the form of Criminal

Appeal Nos. 98-99/2009 at the instance of the review petitioner. However, the challenge was negated by this Court and the award

of death sentence to the petitioner was affirmed vide judgment

dated 10.8.2011, which has resulted in filing of the instant review

petitions. 6. The instant review petitions had initially come up before the

Bench of two Judges and by order dated 28.8.2012, the review

petitions were dismissed. Curative Petition (Crl.) Nos.99-

100/2013 filed by the review petitioner sought to challenge the

view taken by the Division Bench of this Court in dismissal of the

appeals, as well as, the review petitions. However, the curative

petitions were also dismissed by this Court vide order dated

23.1.2014. 7. Soon thereafter, Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 77/2014 was

preferred by the review petitioner submitting inter alia, that the

review petitions in matters arising out of award of death sentence

be heard by a Bench of three Judges and in open Court. The 3 (2007) SCC Online Del 1259 4 Constitution Bench of this Court by its judgment dated 2.9.20144

concluded that in all cases in which death sentence was awarded

by the High Court, such matters be listed before a Bench of three

Judges. The relevant observations in paragraph 39 were as under: 8. A question still arose: whether in matters where the review

petitions had already stood rejected when the aforementioned

decision was rendered by the Constitution Bench of this Court,

could there be reopening of the matter and the review petition be

reheard? A subsequent Constitution Bench in its order dated

19.1.20165 observed as under: - In paragraph Nos. 182-191 of the judgment which is presently

under review, it was observed as under: - 2000/26-12-2000 one pistol and some live cartridges were
recovered from his possession for which he did not have
any licence. (j) At the time of his arrest in case FIR No. 688 of 2000 one
mobile phone having No. 9811278510 was recovered from
his possession and it was the same mobile number from
which calls had been made to the two BBC correspondents
for informing them about the incident and Lashkar-e-Toiba
being responsible for that incident. (k) Immediately after his apprehension accused Mohd. Arif
alias Ashfaq admitted his involvement in the shooting
incident inside Lal Quila and also disclosed to the police
about his another hide-out at G-73, Batla House, Muradi
Road, Okhla, New Delhi and pursuant to his disclosure the
police had gone to that hide-out where the occupant of that
house started firing upon the police team and when the
police team returned the firing, that person, who was later
on identified by accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq to be one 7 Abu Shamal alias Faizal, died because of the firing resorted
to by the policemen. From House No. G-73, where the
encounter had taken place, one AK-56 rifle and some live
cartridges and hand grenades were recovered. (l) Accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq while in police custody
had also disclosed to the police that one assault rifle had
been thrown near Vijay Ghat after the incident. The police
had already recovered one AK-56 rifle from Vijay Ghat on
the morning of 23-12-2000. Accused Mohd. Arif alias
Ashfaq had thus the knowledge about the availability of
that AK-56 rifle at Vijay Ghat. (m) Accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq had also got recovered
one AK-56 rifle and some ammunition from behind Lal
Quila on 26-12-2000. (n) Accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq had also got recovered
three hand grenades from some place behind his computer
centre in Okhla on 1-1-2001 pursuant to his another
disclosure statement made by him while in police custody. (o) When the assault rifle fired cartridge cases which were
recovered from the place of occurrence by the army men
after the intruders had escaped from there were examined
by the ballistic expert along with the AK-56 rifle which was
recovered at the instance of accused Mohd. Arif alias
Ashfaq from behind Lal Quila on 26-12-2000 and the AK-
56 rifle which was recovered from Vijay Ghat on 23-12-
2000 it was found by the ballistic expert (PW 202) that
some of the assault rifle fired cartridge cases had been fired
from the rifle recovered from behind Red Fort and some
had been fired from the other rifle Ih was recovered from
Vijay Ghat. (p) Appellant-accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq was a
Pakistani national and had entered the Indian territory
illegally. (q) After making illegal entry into India appellant-accused
Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq had been representing to the
people coming in his contact during his stays at different
places that he was a resident of Jammu and was doing the
business of shawls while, in fact, he had no such business
and he had been collecting money through hawala
channels. (r) Accused Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq had obtained a forged
ration card, Ext. PW-164/A wherein not only his house
number mentioned was not his correct address but even
the name of his wife shown therein was not Rehmana
Yusuf Farukhi. He had also forged his learner driving
licence, Ext. PW-13/C as well as one document, Ext. PW- 13/E purporting to be a photocopy of another ration card
 in his name with his residential address of Ghaziabad
 where he admittedly never resided and he submitted that
 document with the Ghaziabad Transport Authority for
 obtaining permanent driving licence. In the learner driving
 licence also he had shown his residential addresses where
 he had never actually resided. All that he did was to
 conceal his real identity as a militant having entered the
 Indian territory with the object of spreading terror with the
 help of his other associate militants whom unfortunately
 the police could not apprehend and some expired before
 they could be tried.” 183. In addition to these circumstances, there is another
circumstance that a message was intercepted by BSF vide
Exhibit PW-162/A and proved by PW 162 Inspector J.S.
Chauhan dated 26-12-2000 wherein there was a specific
reference to the accused. Still another circumstance would be
that the accused had no ostensible means of livelihood and
yet he deposited Rs 29,50,000 in three accounts, namely,
Standard Chartered Grindlays Bank, Connaught Place
(known as ANZ Grindlays Bank) bearing Account No.
32263962 of M/s Nazir & Sons, Standard Chartered
Grindlays Bank bearing Account No. 28552609 of Bilal
Ahmad Kawa and Standard Chartered Bank bearing Account
No. 32181669 of Farooq Ahmed Qasid and also deposited
some amounts in the account of Rehmana Yusuf Farukhi and
he had no explanation of these huge amounts, their source or
their distribution. Lastly, the appellant gave a fanciful and a
completely false explanation about his entering in India and
his being a member of RAW and thereby, his having interacted
with Nain Singh (PW 20). 184. We are in complete agreement with the findings
regarding the incriminating circumstances as recorded by the
High Court. On the basis of the aforementioned
circumstances, the High Court came to the conclusion that
the appellant was responsible for the incident of shooting
inside Lal Quila (Red Fort) on the night of 22-12-2000, which
resulted in the death of three soldiers of army. It has also been
held by the High Court that this was a result of well-planned
conspiracy between the appellant and some other militants
including deceased Abu Shamal alias Faizal who was killed in
an encounter with the police at House No. G-73, Batla House,
Muradi Road, Okhla, New Delhi. The High Court has also
deduced that it was at the instance of the appellant that the
police could reach that spot. 185. The High Court has further come to the conclusion that
it was in a systematic manner that the appellant came to India
illegally and collected highly sophisticated arms and
ammunition meant for mass destruction. The High Court
further held that he chose to select Red Fort for an assault
along with his other associates, Red Fort being a place of
national importance for India. The High Court has also
recorded a finding that the chosen attack was on the army
camp which was stationed there to protect this monument of
national importance. The High Court has, therefore, deduced
that it was an act of waging war against the Government of
India. It is further held that the associates, with whom the
appellant had entered into conspiracy, had attacked the army
camp, which suggests that there was a conspiracy to wage war
against the Government of India, particularly, because in that
attack, sophisticated arms like AK-47 and AK-56 rifles and
hand grenades were used. 186. The High Court also took note that this aspect regarding
waging war was not even argued by the learned counsel
appearing for the defence. It is on this basis that the appellant
was held guilty for the offences punishable under Sections
120-B , 121-A , 121 IPC, Section 120-B read with Section 302 IPC and Sections 468 / 471 / 474 IPC and also the offences
under Sections 186 / 353 / 120-B IPC. He was also held guilty
for the offence under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, since it
was proved that the appellant, a foreigner, had entered the
territory of India without obtaining the necessary permissions
and clearance. Similarly, the appellant was also held guilty for
the offences under the Arms Act as well as the Explosive
Substances Act on account of his being found with a pistol
and live cartridges. 187. The law on the circumstantial evidence is, by now,
settled. In Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of
Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 this Court drew out the
following test for relying upon the circumstantial evidence: 188. It is to be noted that in the last mentioned decision
of Aftab Ahmad Anasari v. State of Uttaranchal (2010) 2 SCC
583, the observation made is to the following effect: (SCC p.
589, paras 13-14)
 “13. In cases where evidence is of a circumstantial nature,
 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to
 be drawn should, in the first instance, be fully established.
 Each fact must be proved individually and only thereafter
 the court should consider the total cumulative effect of all
 the proved facts, each one of which reinforces the
 conclusion of the guilt. If the combined effect of all the facts
 taken together is conclusive in establishing the guilt of the
 accused, the conviction would be justified even though it
 may be that one or more of these facts, by itself/themselves,
 is/are not decisive. The circumstances proved should be
 such as to exclude every hypothesis except the one sought
 to be proved. But this does not mean that before the
 prosecution case succeeds in a case of circumstantial
 evidence alone, it must exclude each and every hypothesis
 suggested by the accused, howsoever extravagant and
 fanciful it might be. 14. There must be a chain of evidence so far complete as
 not to leave any reasonable ground for conclusion
 consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must
 be such as to show that within all human probability, the
 act must have been done by the accused. Where the
 various links in a chain are in themselves complete, then
 a false plea or a false defence may be called into aid only
 to lend assurance to the court.”
 (emphasis supplied) 189. The Court further went on to hold that in applying this
principle, distinction must be made between the facts called 11 primary or basic, on the one hand, and the inference of facts
to be drawn from them, on the other. The Court further
mentioned that: ( Aftab Ahmad Anasari case (2010) 2 SCC
583, SCC p. 590, para 15)
 “15. … In drawing these inferences or presumptions, the
 court must have regard to the common course of natural
 events, and to human conduct and their relations to the
 facts of the particular case.”
 To the similar effect are the observations made in Vikram
Singh v. State of Punjab (2010) 3 SCC 56. 190. There can be no dispute that in a case entirely dependent
on the circumstantial evidence, the responsibility of the
prosecution is more as compared to the case where the ocular
testimony or the direct evidence, as the case may be, is
available. The Court, before relying on the circumstantial
evidence and convicting the accused thereby has to satisfy
itself completely that there is no other inference consistent
with the innocence of the accused possible nor is there any
plausible explanation. The Court must, therefore, make up its
mind about the inferences to be drawn from each proved
circumstance and should also consider the cumulative effect
thereof. In doing this, the Court has to satisfy its conscience
that it is not proceeding on the imaginary inferences or its
prejudices and that there could be no other inference possible
excepting the guilt on the part of the accused. 191. We respectfully agree with the principles drawn in the
abovementioned cases and hold that the prosecution was
successful in establishing the abovementioned circumstances
against the appellant, individually, as well as, cumulatively.
There indeed cannot be a universal test applicable commonly
to all the situations for reaching an inference that the accused
is guilty on the basis of the proved circumstances against him
nor could there be any quantitative test made applicable. At
times, there may be only a few circumstances available to
reach a conclusion of the guilt on the part of the accused and
at times, even if there are large numbers of circumstances
proved, they may not be enough to reach the conclusion of
guilt on the part of the accused. It is the quality of each
individual circumstance that is material and that would
essentially depend upon the quality of evidence. Fanciful
imagination in such cases has no place. Clear and irrefutable
logic would be an essential factor in arriving at the verdict of
guilt on the basis of the proved circumstances. In our opinion,
the present case is such, as would pass all the tests so far
devised by this Court in the realm of criminal jurisprudence.” 12 11. Some of the other features of the matter, as noted by this

Court, were: - 32263962, 28552609 and 32181669 respectively. The
 investigating agency collected the documents from Standard
 Chartered Grindlays Bank including 9 cash deposit receipts
 as also documents regarding the Account Nos. 32263962,
 28552609 and 32181669. 9 cash deposit slips are purportedly
 in the name of Aslam, Salim Khan, R.K. Traders and Rashid
 and all these have been proved to be in the handwriting of the
 appellant. xxx xxx xxx 159. The argument of Ms Jaiswal, learned counsel appearing
 on behalf of the appellant, that Nazir Ahmad Qasid (A-3) and
 Farooq Ahmed Qasid (A-4) have already been acquitted, is of
 no consequence. We may point out that there is absolutely no 13 explanation by the appellant either by way of cross-
 examination of the witnesses or by way of his statement under Section 313 CrPC as to where all these amounts had come
 from and why did he deposit huge amounts in the three
 accounts mentioned above. Rs 29,50,000 is not an ordinary
 sum. Also, there is no evidence that in his account in HDFC
 Bank, the appellant has Rs 6 lakhs. Further, a very sizeable
 amount is shown to have been paid to Rehmana Yusuf
 Farukhi in her account in State Bank of India. How did the
 appellant receive all these amounts and from where, are
 questions that remain unanswered in the absence of any
 explanation and more particularly because the appellant had
 no ostensible means of livelihood. It would have to be held that
 the appellant was dealing with huge sums of money and he
 has no explanation therefor. This is certainly to be viewed as
 an incriminating circumstance against the appellant. The
 silence on this issue is only telling of his nefarious design. 160. It is obvious that the appellant was a very important
 wheel in the whole machinery which was working against the
 sovereignty of this country. All this was supported by the fact
 that 9 deposit slips, the bank forms for opening the accounts,
 the slip through which the amount was deposited in the
 account of Rehmana Yusuf Farukhi, were all proved to be in
 the handwriting of the appellant. We have absolutely no
 reason to reject the evidence of the handwriting expert. All this
 suggests that the appellant was weaving his web of terrorist
 activities by taking recourse to falsehood one after the other
 including his residential address and also creating false
 documents.” 12. In these review petitions, the challenge is raised principally

on four grounds: - “the Evidence Act ”, for short. (b) The disclosure statements of the review petitioner

 must be taken to be inadmissible on account of ill- treatment meted out to him during the intervening

 night between his actual arrest and his formal arrest. (c) The recovery of ammunition or the encounter of one

 Abu Shamal, who was stated to be the accomplice of

 the petitioner, at Batla House, New Delhi, could not be

 associated with the disclosure statement of the review

 petitioner. (d) Any possibility of retribution and rehabilitation of the

 review petitioner, or that he would continue to be a

 threat to the society, was not considered by the

 Courts. 13. On the other hand, it is submitted on behalf of the State, that

the scope of a review petition even in matters arising out of award

of death sentence would be extremely limited. Reliance has been

placed on the decisions of this Court in Vikram Singh alias Vicky

Walia & Anr. vs. State of Punjab & Anr.7 and specially the

following paragraph: - 14. Reliance has further been placed on the decision of this Court

in Akshay Kumar Singh vs. State (NCT of Delhi )8, where it was

observed by this Court as under: - 8. It is no longer res integra that scope of review is limited and
 review cannot be entertained except in cases of error apparent
 on the face of the record. Article 137 of the Constitution of
 India empowers the Supreme Court to review any judgment
 pronounced or made, subject, of course, to the provisions of
 any law made by Parliament or any rule made under Article
 145 of the Constitution of India. 9. Order 47 Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 dealing
 with review reads as follows: compliance of this mandatory requirement, the afore-stated CDRs 9 (2014) 10 SCC 473 10 (2020) 7 SCC 1 17 would be inadmissible and must be eschewed from consideration

at every juncture. The extension of the submission is that the

entire fulcrum of the prosecution case rested on these CDRs and

minus this evidence, there is hardly anything which could prove

the identity and involvement of the petitioner in the crime in

question. 16. The submission advanced on behalf of the review petitioner

on the first ground as set out in the Note given by the learned

Senior Counsel is as under: - 56 (@ 60 of Vol.I), PW-232 (@ 415 of Vol.II)]. Police never 18 accessed the instrument to examine call logs, message etc.
 (PW-148 @ 96 of Vol.I) and the sole link to all inferences is the
 purported CDRs. (v) CDRs provided by PW-198 Rajiv Pandit in February/
 March 2001 (Ex. PW-198/A @ 63 of Vol.III; Ex.PW-198/D @
 89 of Vol.III) were not and could not have been the basis for
 analysis by PW-229. The Court has acted upon oral testimony
 of PW-229 as to the contents of CDRs of 8510, and Ex.PW-
 229/A (@ 48 of Vol.III) – unauthenticated secondary evidence
 of secondary evidence – with respect to contents of CDRs of
 2154. This is the teeth of S.65B IEA, S.63/65 IEA as well as
 S.59 IEA. Even otherwise, the contents of the CDRs are
 different from the oral testimony of PW-229 whereas the
 Supreme Court has proceeded relying upon the oral testimony
 [@ Para 97 (p.525) of Compilation of Judgments and Orders
 Pertaining to Petitioner]
 • Tomaso Bruno & Anr. v. State of UP , (2015) 7 SCC 178
 (Paras 20-27) (vi) Certification under S.65B IEA is a pre-requisite to
 admissibility of an electronic record such as CDRs. There is
 no compliance with this mandatory requirement. As such,
 CDRs are inadmissible and necessarily must be excluded from
 consideration.” 17. On the issue of admissibility of call records without there

being appropriate certificate under Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence

Act a bench of two Judges of this Court in State (NCT of Delhi)

vs. Navjot Sandhu alias Afsan Guru11, had observed:- 149. Two witnesses were examined to prove the printouts of
the computerised record furnished by the cellular service
providers, namely, AirTel (Bharti Cellular Limited) and ESSAR
Cellphone. The call details of Mobile No. 9811573506 (which
was seized from Shaukat's house) are contained in Exhibits
36/1 to 36/2. The covering letters signed by the Nodal Officer
of Sterling Cellular Limited are Exts. P-36/6 and P-36/7
bearing the dates 13th and 18th December respectively. The
call details of Mobile No. 9811489429 attributed to Afzal are
contained in Ext. P-36/3 and the covering letter addressed to
the Inspector (special cell) — PW 66 signed by the Nodal
Officer is Ext. 36/5. The call details of 9810081228 belonging
to the subscriber S.A.R. Gilani are contained in Ext. 35/8. The
above two phones were obtained on cash-card basis. The
covering letter pertaining thereto and certain other mobile
numbers were signed by the Security Manager of Bharti
Cellular Limited. The call details relating to another Cellphone
Number 9810693456 pertaining to Mohammed is Ext. 35/5.
These documents i.e. Ext. 35 series were filed by PW 35 who
is the person that signed the covering letter dated 17th
December bearing Ext. 35/1. PW 35 deposed that “all the call
details are computerised sheets obtained from the computer”.
He clarified that: 150. According to Section 63, secondary evidence means and
includes, among other things, “copies made from the original
by mechanical processes which in themselves insure the
accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies”.
Section 65 enables secondary evidence of the contents of a
document to be adduced if the original is of such a nature as
not to be easily movable. It is not in dispute that the
information contained in the call records is stored in huge
servers which cannot be easily moved and produced in the
court. That is what the High Court has also observed at para 276. Hence, printouts taken from the computers/servers by
mechanical process and certified by a responsible official of
the service-providing company can be led in evidence through
a witness who can identify the signatures of the certifying
officer or otherwise speak of the facts based on his personal
knowledge. Irrespective of the compliance with the
requirements of Section 65-B, which is a provision dealing
with admissibility of electronic records, there is no bar to
adducing secondary evidence under the other provisions of
the Evidence Act , namely, Sections 63 and 65. It may be that
the certificate containing the details in sub-section (4) of
Section 65-B is not filed in the instant case, but that does not
mean that secondary evidence cannot be given even if the law
permits such evidence to be given in the circumstances
mentioned in the relevant provisions, namely, Sections 63 and 65. 151. The learned Senior Counsel Mr Shanti Bhushan then
contended that the witnesses examined were not technical
persons acquainted with the functioning of the computers,
nor do they have personal knowledge of the details stored in
the servers of the computers. We do not find substance in this
argument. Both the witnesses were responsible officials of the
companies concerned who deposed to the fact that they were
the printouts obtained from the computer records. In fact the
evidence of PW 35 shows that he is fairly familiar with the
computer system and its output. If there was some
questioning vis-à-vis specific details or specific suggestion of
fabrication of printouts, it would have been obligatory on the
part of the prosecution to call a technical expert directly in the 21 know of things. The following observations of the House of
Lords in the case of R. v. Shephard 1993 AC 380 are quite
apposite : (All ER p. 231b-c)
 “The nature of the evidence to discharge the
 burden of showing that there has been no improper
 use of the computer and that it was operating
 properly will inevitably vary from case to case. The
 evidence must be tailored to suit the needs of the
 case. I suspect that it will very rarely be necessary
 to call an expert and that in the vast majority of
 cases it will be possible to discharge the burden by
 calling a witness who is familiar with the operation
 of the computer in the sense of knowing what the
 computer is required to do and who can say that it
 is doing it properly.”
Such a view was expressed even in the face of a more
stringent provision in Section 69 of the Police and Criminal
Act, 1984 in the UK casting a positive obligation on the part
of the prosecution to lead evidence in respect of proof of the
computer record. We agree with the submission of Mr Gopal
Subramanium that the burden of prosecution under the
Indian law cannot be said to be higher than what was laid
down in R. v. Shephard 1993 AC 380. 152. Although necessary suggestions were not put forward to
the witnesses so as to discredit the correctness/genuineness
of the call records produced, we would prefer to examine the
points made out by the learned counsel for the accused
independently. As already noted, one such contention was
about the presence of duplicate entries in Exts. 36/2 and
36/3. We feel that an innocuous error in the computer
recording is being magnified to discredit the entire document
containing the details without any warrant. As explained by
the learned counsel for the State, the computer, at the first
instance, instead of recording the IMEI number of the mobile
instrument, had recorded the IMEI and cell ID (location) of
the person calling/called by the subscriber. The computer
rectified this obvious error immediately and modified the
record to show the correct details viz. the IMEI and the cell
ID of the subscriber only. The document is self-explanatory
of the error. A perusal of both the call records with reference
to the call at 11 : 19 : 14 hours exchanged between
9811489429 (Afzal's) and 9811573506 (Shaukat's) shows
that the said call was recorded twice in the call records. The
fact that the same call has been recorded twice in the call
records of the calling and called party simultaneously
demonstrates beyond doubt that the correctness or
genuineness of the call is beyond doubt. Further, on a 22 comparative perusal of the two call records, the details of the
 cell ID and the IMEI of the two numbers are also recorded.
 Thus, as rightly pointed out by the counsel for the State Mr
 Gopal Subramanium, the same call has been recorded two
 times, first with the cell ID and IMEI number of the calling
 number (9811489429). The same explanation holds good for
 the call at 11 : 32 : 40 hours. Far from supporting the
 contention of the defence, the above facts, evident from the
 perusal of the call records, would clearly show that the
 system was working satisfactorily and it promptly checked
 and rectified the mistake that occurred. As already noticed,
 it was not suggested nor could it be suggested that there was
 any manipulation or material deficiency in the computer on
 account of these two errors. Above all, the printouts
 pertaining to the call details exhibited by the prosecution are
 of such regularity and continuity that it would be legitimate
 to draw a presumption that the system was functional and
 the output was produced by the computer in regular use,
 whether this fact was specifically deposed to by the witness
 or not. We are therefore of the view that the call records are
 admissible and reliable and rightly made use of by the
 prosecution.” 18. A bench of three Judges of this Court in Anvar P.V.9 did not

approve the view taken in Navjot Sandhu11 and observed –

 “20. Proof of electronic record is a special provision
 introduced by the IT Act amending various provisions under
 the Evidence Act . The very caption of Section 65-A of the
 Evidence Act, read with Sections 59 and 65-B is sufficient to
 hold that the special provisions on evidence relating to
 electronic record shall be governed by the procedure
 prescribed under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. That is a
 complete code in itself. Being a special law, the general law
 under Sections 63 and 65 has to yield. 21. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , (2005) 11 SCC
 600 a two-Judge Bench of this Court had an occasion to
 consider an issue on production of electronic record as
 evidence. While considering the printouts of the
 computerised records of the calls pertaining to the
 cellphones, it was held at para 150 as follows: (SCC p. 714)

 “150. According to Section 63 , “secondary evidence”
 means and includes, among other things, ‘copies
 made from the original by mechanical processes 23 which in themselves insure the accuracy of the
 copy, and copies compared with such copies’. Section 65 enables secondary evidence of the
 contents of a document to be adduced if the original
 is of such a nature as not to be easily movable. It is
 not in dispute that the information contained in the
 call records is stored in huge servers which cannot
 be easily moved and produced in the court. That is
 what the High Court has also observed [Ed.: the same is wholly governed by Sections 65-A and 65-B. To
 that extent, the statement of law on admissibility of
 secondary evidence pertaining to electronic record, as stated
 by this Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , (2005)
 11 SCC 600, does not lay down the correct legal position. It
 requires to be overruled and we do so. An electronic record
 by way of secondary evidence shall not be admitted in
 evidence unless the requirements under Section 65-B are
 satisfied. Thus, in the case of CD, VCD, chip, etc., the same
 shall be accompanied by the certificate in terms of Section
 65-B obtained at the time of taking the document, without
 which, the secondary evidence pertaining to that electronic
 record, is inadmissible.” 19. In Tomaso Bruno & Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh12,

another bench of three Judges however struck a slightly different

chord and made following observations: 20. In Sonu alias Amar v. State of Haryana13 , a bench of two

Judges ruled that an objection that CDRs be not taken into

consideration pertained to the mode or method of proof and if not

taken at the trial, cannot be permitted at the appellate stage. It

was stated: - 21. Later, another bench of two Judges of this Court in Shafi

Mohammed v. State of Himachal Pradesh14 observed as under: recording, it was observed that voice of the speaker must be
 duly identified, accuracy of the statement was required to be
 proved by the maker of the record, possibility of tampering
 was required to be ruled out. Reliability of the piece of
 evidence is certainly a matter to be determined in the facts
 and circumstances of a fact situation. However, threshold 14 (2018) 2 SCC 801. admissibility of an electronic evidence cannot be ruled out on
 any technicality if the same was relevant.” 22. The last decision on the point is a three Judge bench decision

of this Court in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar10 which was rendered

on a reference to a larger bench because of the observations in

Shafi Mohammad14. The bench concluded in Arjun Panditrao10

as under: - 23. Navjot Sandhu11 was decided on 4.8.2005 i.e., before the

judgment was rendered by the Trial Court in the instant matter. The subsequent judgments of the High Court and this Court were

passed on 13.9.2007 and 10.8.2011 respectively affirming the

award of death sentence. These two judgments were delivered

prior to the decision of this Court in Anvar P.V.9 which was given

on 18.9.2014. The judgments by the trial Court, High Court and

this Court were thus well before the decision in Anvar P.V.9 and 29 were essentially in the backdrop of law laid down in Navjot

Sandhu11. If we go by the principle accepted in paragraph 32 of

the decision in Sonu alias Amar13, the matter may stand on a

completely different footing. It is for this reason that reliance has

been placed on certain decisions of this Court to submit that the

matter need not be reopened on issues which were dealt with in

accordance with the law then prevailing. However, since the

instant matter pertains to award of death sentence, this review

petition must be considered in light of the decisions made by this

Court in Anvar P.V.9 and Arjun Panditrao10. 24. Consequently, we must eschew, for the present purposes, the

electronic evidence in the form of CDRs which was without any

appropriate certificate under Section 65-B(4) of the Evidence Act. 25. If we consider the circumstances which were culled out by

this Court in Paragraph 182 of the judgment under review,

circumstances mentioned at Serial Nos. ‘h’ and ‘j’ become

extremely weak as the tracing of calls received by PWs 39 and 41

to Mobile Phone No.9811278510 was possible only through CDRs. These circumstances must not, therefore, be taken into account. 26. However, the other circumstances stated in said paragraph

182 as well as in subsequent paragraphs remain completely 30 unaffected. As was stated by this Court in paragraphs 151, 153,

159, 169 and finally summed up in paragraphs 183 and 184, the

findings on the issue of the receipt and disbursal of money and the

fact that the police could reach the spot referred to in Paragraph

184, at the instance of the review petitioner are very relevant and

crucial circumstances. One of the important circumstances is also

the feature referred to in circumstance ‘o’ in Paragraph 182 as

stated above. In conclusion, it must therefore be observed that

even after eschewing circumstances ‘h’ and ‘j’ which were directly

attributable to the CDRs relied upon by the prosecution, the other

circumstances on record do clearly spell out and prove beyond any

doubt the involvement of the review petitioner in the crime in

question. 27. We now turn to grounds (b), (c) and (d) raised on behalf of the

review petitioner as stated in para 12 supra. Grounds ‘b’ and ‘c’

are purely factual in nature. The disclosure statement, as a matter

of fact, was held to have been proved by the Courts below and this

Court. In our review jurisdiction, it will not be possible to enter

into questions regarding admissibility of such disclosure

statement on issues of fact. The disclosure statement led the

police to the hide out at G-73, Batla House, New Delhi and when 31 the police team arrived with the review petitioner, there was firing

upon the police team as stated in circumstance ‘g’ in paragraph 182. After the person concerned named Abu Shamal alias Faisal

died in the encounter, certain fire arms and ammunition were

recovered. The submission that such recovery of ammunition or

the encounter of Abu Shamal could not be associated with the

disclosure statement of the review petitioner is not quite correct. We therefore reject both the grounds taken in ‘b’ and ‘c’ as referred

to in Para 12 supra. 28. We now turn to the last ground regarding possibility of

retribution and rehabilitation of the review petitioner. On this

issue, the response of the State in its Written Submissions is as

follows: - clear terms, a spectacle of the rarest of rare cases. The
 very idea of attacking and overpowering a sovereign
 democratic institution by using powerful arms and
 explosives and imperilling the safety of a multitude of
 peoples’ representatives, constitutional functionaries and
 officials of the Government of India and engaging in a
 combat with the security forces is a terrorist act of the
 gravest severity. It is a classic example of rarest of rare
 cases. 253. The gravity of the crime conceived by the
 conspirators with the potential of causing enormous
 casualties and dislocating the functioning of the
 Government as well as disrupting the normal life of the
 people of India is something which cannot be described
 in words. The incident, which resulted in heavy
 casualties, had shaken the entire nation, and the
 collective conscience of the society will only be satisfied
 if capital punishment is awarded to the offender. The
 challenge to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of India
 by these acts of terrorists and conspirators, can only be
 compensated by giving maximum punishment to the
 person who is proved to be the conspirator in this
 treacherous act. The appellant, who is a surrendered
 militant and who was bent upon repeating the acts of
 treason against the nation, is a menace to the society and
 his life should become extinct. Accordingly, we uphold the
 death sentence. (emphasis supplied) 4. Similarly in Yakub Abdul Razak Memon v. State of
Maharashtra , (2013) 13 SCC 1, this Hon’ble Court while
dealing with the award of the death sentence to persons
convicted inter-alia under various IPC offences including
Waging of War against the Government of India and the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, discussed the wide ambit of the
term “terrorism” and held that the offence of terrorism itself was
an aggravating circumstance: 5. In Mohd. Ajmal Amir Kasab v. State of Maharashtra ,
(2012) 9 SCC 1, this Hon'ble Court while convicting the
Appellant therein for the terrorist attack of 26/11 in Mumbai,
stated that facts of the case, the cross-border conspiracy, and
the intention to strike fear into the heart of the victims, that the
death sentence was warranted. While the court recognised that
death should be the exception, this Hon'ble Court noted that as
long as the death penalty remained on the statute books for
crimes such as waging of war, there would be certain cases
where its imposition would be justified. In this regard, attention
is respectfully drawn to the following paragraphs: The submission so advanced under ground (d) does not merit any

acceptance and is, therefore, rejected. 31. Consequently, we do not find any merit in the instant review

petitions, which are accordingly dismissed. ….………………………..CJI
 [Uday Umesh Lalit]

 ….…………………………..J.
 [S. Ravindra Bhat]

 ….…………………………..J.
 [Bela M. Trivedi ]

New Delhi; November 3, 2022.