Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

title: Regarding reported increase in cyber crimes in the country. SHRIMATI KOTHAPALLI GEETHA ( ARAKU ): Madam Speaker, I thank you for giving me this opportunity to raise the most important issue, and the burning issue, pertaining to increase in cyber crimes in the country. As we all are well aware that we have moved to digitalisation, and social media is playing a very vital role in the country. There is a lot of abuse in the social media. Pertinently, now I want to raise this issue as after demonetization we have moved from cash economy to the plastic currency. The use of credit and debit cards has become a part of every body’s life today. I would like to particularly mention on the banking frauds through cyber gateway that are occurring, that are posing a serious threat to the economy. Unfortunately, these frauds are rapidly increasing, and between 2011 and 2015 the cyber crimes have gone up five times with the usage of digital transactions like e-wallets and other online payment gateways. The mobile frauds are also increasing and they are expected to grow by 65 per cent by 2017. The common man is depending upon the debit or credit cards to make their daily payments. There is a lot of fraud going on here as amounts are being deducted from the accounts without even the use of pin code or One-Time Password (OTP) and so many people are facing so many issues regarding this issue. According to the data, about 40 per cent of the cyber crimes are related to banking transactions, and in resolving these complaints the banks are also taking a lot of time. Further, the individuals are lost in unproductive work, and they are subjected to harassment. Under these circumstances, I would request the Home Ministry as well as the Finance Ministry to evolve a policy and put it in place for immediately resolving these cyber crimes, and also to expedite and simplify the process of resolving these issues in order to provide relief to the sufferings of common man. Thank you so much, Madam. माननीय अध्यक्ष :