1. Steel products were supplied by the respondent to one M/s.

Diamond Engineering Pvt. Ltd. [“the company”] from 21.09.2015 to

11.11.2016, as a result of which INR 24,20,91,054/- was due and payable

by the company. As many as 51 cheques were issued by the company in

favour of the respondent towards amounts payable for supplies, all of

which were returned dishonoured for the reason “funds insufficient” on

03.03.2017. As a result, on 31.03.2017, the respondent issued a statutory

demand notice under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act, 1881, calling upon the company and its three Directors,

the appellants no.1-3 herein, to pay this amount within 15 days of the

receipt of the notice. 2. On 28.04.2017, two cheques for a total amount of INR 80,70,133/-

presented by the respondent for encashment were returned dishonoured

for the reason “funds insufficient”. A second demand notice dated

05.05.2017 was therefore issued under the selfsame Sections by the

respondent, calling upon the company and the appellants to pay this

amount within 15 days of the receipt of the notice. 3 3. Since no payment was forthcoming pursuant to the two statutory

demand notices, two criminal complaints, being Criminal Complaint

No.SS/552/2017 and Criminal Complaint No. SS/690/2017 dated

17.05.2017 and 21.06.2017, respectively, were filed by the respondent

against the company and the appellants under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act before the Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate [“ACMM”], Kurla, Mumbai. On 12.02.2018,

summons were issued by the ACMM to the company and the appellants

in both the criminal complaints. 4. Meanwhile, as a statutory notice under Section 8 of the Insolvency

and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [“IBC”] had been issued on 21.03.2017 by

the respondent to the company, and as an order dated 06.06.2017 was

passed by the Adjudicating Authority admitting the application under Section 9 of the IBC and directing commencement of the corporate

insolvency resolution process with respect to the company, a moratorium

in terms of Section 14 of the IBC was ordered. Pursuant thereto, on

24.05.2018, the Adjudicating Authority stayed further proceedings in the

two criminal complaints pending before the ACMM. In an appeal filed to

the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal [“NCLAT”], the NCLAT set

aside this order, holding that Section 138 , being a criminal law provision,

cannot be held to be a “proceeding” within the meaning of Section 14 of 4 the IBC. In an appeal filed before this Court, on 26.10.2018, this Court

ordered a stay of further proceedings in the two complaints pending

before the learned ACMM. On 30.09.2019, since a resolution plan

submitted by the promoters of the company had been approved by the

committee of creditors, the Adjudicating Authority approved such plan as

a result of which, the moratorium order dated 06.06.2017 ceased to have

effect. It may only be added that at present, an application for withdrawal

of approval of this resolution plan has been filed by the financial creditors

of the company before the Adjudicating Authority. Equally, an application

to extend time for implementation of this plan has been filed by the

resolution applicant sometime in October 2020 before the Adjudicating

Authority. Both these applications have yet to be decided by the

Adjudicating Authority, the next date of hearing before such Authority

being 08.02.2021. 5. The important question that arises in this appeal is whether the

institution or continuation of a proceeding under Section 138 / 141 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act can be said to be covered by the moratorium

provision, namely, Section 14 of the IBC. 6. Shri Jayanth Muth Raj, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

behalf of the appellants, has painstakingly taken us through various

provisions of the IBC and has argued that the object of Section 14 being 5 that the assets of the corporate debtor be preserved during the corporate

insolvency resolution process, it would be most incongruous to hold that a Section 138 proceeding, which, although a criminal proceeding, is in

essence to recover the amount of the bounced cheque, be kept out of the

word “proceedings” contained in Section 14(1)(a) of the IBC. According to

the learned Senior Advocate, given the object of Section 14 , there is no

reason to curtail the meaning of the expression “proceedings”, which

would therefore include all proceedings against the corporate debtor, civil

or criminal, which would result in “execution” of any judgment for payment

of compensation. He emphasised the fact that Section 14(1)(a) was

extremely wide and ought not to be cut down by judicial interpretation

given the expression “any” occurring twice in Section 14(1)(a) , thus

emphasising that so long as there is a judgment by any court of law

(which even extends to an order by an authority) which results in coercive

steps being taken against the assets of the corporate debtor, all such

proceedings are necessarily subsumed within the meaning of Section

14(1)(a) . He also referred to the width of Section 14(1)(b) and the

language of Section 14(1)(b) and therefore argued that given the object of Section 14 , no rule of construction, be it ejusdem generis or noscitur a

sociis can be used to cut down the plain meaning of the words used in Section 14(1)(a) . He cited a number of judgments in support of this

proposition. He also argued that in any event, even if criminal 6 proceedings properly so-called are to be excluded from Section 14(1)(a) ,

a Section 138 proceeding being quasi-criminal in nature, whose dominant

object is compensation being payable to the person in whose favour a

cheque is made, which has bounced, the punitive aspect of Section 138 being only to act as an in terrorem proceeding to achieve this result, it is

clear that in any event, a hybrid proceeding partaking of this nature would

certainly be covered. He cited a number of judgments in order to buttress

this proposition as well. 7. Shri Jayant Mehta, learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the

respondent, rebutted each of these submissions with erudition and grace.

He referred to the Report of the Insolvency Law Committee of February

2020 to drive home his point that the object of Section 14 being a limited

one, a criminal proceeding could not possibly be included within it. He

further went on to juxtapose the moratorium provisions which would apply

in the case of individuals and firms in Sections 85 , 96 , and 101 of the IBC,

emphasising that the language of these provisions being wider would, by

way of contrast, include a Section 138 proceeding so far as individuals

and firms are concerned, which has been expressly eschewed so far as Section 14 ’s applicability to corporate debtors is concerned. He relied

upon the ejusdem generis/noscitur a sociis rules of construction that had,

in fact, been applied to Section 14(1)(a) by the Bombay High Court and 7 the Calcutta High Court to press home his point that since the expression

“proceedings” takes its colour from the previous expression “suits”, such

proceedings must necessarily be civil in nature. He cited judgments which

distinguish between civil and criminal proceedings and went on to argue

that Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act is a criminal

proceeding whose object may be two fold, the primary object being to

make what was once a civil wrong punishable by a jail sentence and/or

fine. He relied heavily upon judgments which construed like expressions

contained in Section 22(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies Act, 1985

[“SICA”], and Section 446(2) of the Companies Act, 1956. He also was at

pains to point out from several judgments that the Delhi High Court had

not applied Section 14 of the IBC to stay proceedings under Section 34 of

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996; the Bombay High Court had not

applied Section 14 of the IBC to stay prosecution under the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 ; and that the Delhi High Court had not stayed

proceedings covered by the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 ,

stating that criminal proceedings were not the subject matter of Section

14 of the IBC. He thus supported the judgment under appeal, stating that

the consistent view of the High Courts has been that Section 138 , being a

criminal law provision, could not possibly be said to be covered by Section 14 of the IBC. He also relied upon the provision contained in Section 33(5) of the IBC to argue that when a liquidation order is passed, 8 no suit or other legal proceeding can be instituted by or against a

corporate debtor, similar to what is contained in Section 446 of the

Companies Act, 1956, and if those decisions are seen, then the

expression “or other legal proceeding” obviously cannot include criminal

proceedings. On the other hand, in any case, the expression “or other

legal proceeding” should be contrasted with the word “proceedings” in Section 14(1)(a) of the IBC, which cannot possibly include a criminal

proceeding, given its object. Lastly, he also relied upon Section 32A of

the IBC, which was introduced by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

(Amendment) Act, 2020 w.e.f. 28.12.2019, and emphasised the fact that

the liability of a corporate debtor for an offence committed prior to the

commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process shall

cease in certain circumstances. This provision would have been wholly

unnecessary if Section 14(1)(a) were to cover criminal offences as well,

as they would cease for the period of moratorium. Thus, he argued that

this Section throws considerable light on the fact that criminal

prosecutions are outside the ken of the expression “proceedings”

contained in Section 14(1)(a) of the IBC. 8. Shri Aman Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing on

behalf of the Union of India in W.P. (Crl.) No. 297/2020, has

comprehensively taken us through Chapter XVII of the Negotiable 9 Instruments Act to argue that a plain reading of the said Chapter would

reveal that the offence under Section 138 is a purely criminal offence

which results in imposition of a jail sentence or fine or both, being

punishments exclusively awardable under Section 53 of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 only in a criminal proceeding, and hence, does not fall within

“proceedings” contemplated by Section 14 of the IBC. He further states

that since compounding under criminal law can only take place at the

instance of the complainant/injured party, a subordinate criminal court has

no inherent power to terminate proceedings under Section 138 / 141 upon

“payment of compensation to the satisfaction of the court”. He then relied

upon the rule of noscitur a sociis to state that since the expression

“proceedings” contained in Section 14(1)(a) of the IBC is preceded by the

expression “suits” and followed by the expression “execution”, it has to be

read in a sense analogous to civil proceedings dealing with private rights

of action as contrasted with criminal proceedings which deal with public

wrongs. According to the learned Additional Solicitor General, the intent

manifest in Section 14 of the IBC is reinforced by the introduction of

Section 32A to the IBC in that if the intent of Section 14 were to prohibit

initiation or continuation of criminal proceedings, the legislature would not

have contemplated the introduction of Section 32A by way of amendment.

He further states that if the expression “proceedings” contained in Section

14 were to be construed so as to include criminal proceedings, it would 10 render the first proviso to Section 32 , which deals with institution of

prosecution against a corporate debtor during the corporate insolvency

resolution process, and the second proviso, which indicates pendency of

criminal prosecution against those in charge of and responsible for the

conduct of the corporate debtor, otiose. He relied on the judgment in Aneeta Hada v. Godfather Travels & Tours (P) Ltd. , (2012) 5 SCC 661

[“Aneeta Hada”] to buttress his submission that criminal liability can fall

on Directors/persons in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the

corporate debtor even where the corporate debtor may not be proceeded

against by virtue of Section 14 or Section 32A. He lastly submits that Sections 81 and 101 of the IBC, in speaking of a moratorium in context of

“any debt” also lend support to his contention that moratorium under the

IBC only applies to civil proceedings within the realm of private law, and

that since Section 138 proceedings are not proceedings for the recovery

of a debt, they cannot fall within the moratorium provisions set out by Sections 14 or 81 or 101. INTERPRETATION OF SECTION 14 OF THE IBC 9. Having heard learned counsel, it is important at this stage to set out Section 14 of the IBC, which reads as follows: Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, it is
hereby clarified that notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force, a license, permit,
registration, quota, concession, clearances or a similar grant
or right given by the Central Government, State Government,
local authority, sectoral regulator or any other authority
constituted under any other law for the time being in force,
shall not be suspended or terminated on the grounds of
insolvency, subject to the condition that there is no default in
payment of current dues arising for the use or continuation of
the license, permit, registration, quota, concession, clearances
or a similar grant or right during the moratorium period.
(2) The supply of essential goods or services to the corporate
debtor as may be specified shall not be terminated or
suspended or interrupted during moratorium period.
(2-A) Where the interim resolution professional or resolution
professional, as the case may be, considers the supply of
goods or services critical to protect and preserve the value of
the corporate debtor and manage the operations of such
corporate debtor as a going concern, then the supply of such
goods or services shall not be terminated, suspended or
interrupted during the period of moratorium, except where 12 such corporate debtor has not paid dues arising from such
 supply during the moratorium period or in such circumstances
 as may be specified. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to— (a) such transactions, agreements or other
 arrangements as may be notified by the Central
 Government in consultation with any financial sector
 regulator or any other authority; (b) a surety in a contract of guarantee to a corporate
 debtor. (4) The order of moratorium shall have effect from the date of
 such order till the completion of the corporate insolvency
 resolution process: 10. A cursory look at Section 14(1) makes it clear that subject to the

exceptions contained in sub-sections (2) and (3), on the insolvency

commencement date, the Adjudicating Authority shall mandatorily, by

order, declare a moratorium to prohibit what follows in clauses (a) to (d).

Importantly, under sub-section (4), this order of moratorium does not

continue indefinitely, but has effect only from the date of the order

declaring moratorium till the completion of the corporate insolvency

resolution process which is time bound, either culminating in the order of

the Adjudicating Authority approving a resolution plan or in liquidation. 13 11. The two exceptions to Section 14(1) are contained in sub-sections

(2) and (3) of Section 14 . Under sub-section (2), the supply of essential

goods or services to the corporate debtor during this period cannot be

terminated or suspended or even interrupted, as otherwise the corporate

debtor would be brought to its knees and would not able to function as a

going concern during this period. The exception created in sub-section (3) (a) is important as it refers to “transactions” as may be notified by the

Central Government in consultation with experts in finance. The

expression “financial sector regulator” is defined by Section 3(18) as

follows: xxx xxx xxx” 12. Thus, the Central Government, in consultation with experts, may

state that the moratorium provision will not apply to such transactions as

may be notified. This is of some importance as Section 14(1)(a) does not

indicate as to what the proceedings contained therein apply to. Sub- 14 section 3(a) provides the answer – that such “proceedings” relate to

“transactions” entered into by the corporate debtor pre imposition of the

moratorium. Section 3(33) defines “transaction” as follows: xxx xxx xxx” 13. This definition being an inclusive one is extremely wide in nature

and would include a transaction evidencing a debt or liability. This is made

clear by Section 96(3) and Section 101(3) which contain the same

language as Section 14(3)(a) , these Sections speaking of ‘debts’ of the

individual or firm. Equally important is Section 14(3)(b) , by which a surety

in a contract of guarantee of a debt owed by a corporate debtor cannot

avail of the benefit of a moratorium as a result of which a creditor can

enforce a guarantee, though not being able to enforce the principal debt

during the period of moratorium – see State Bank of India v. V.

Ramakrishnan , (2018) 17 SCC 394 (at paragraph 20) [“V.

Ramakrishnan”]. 14. We now come to the language of Section 14(1)(a) . It will be noticed

that the expression “or” occurs twice in the first part of Section 14(1)(a) –

first, between the expressions “institution of suits” and “continuation of 15 pending suits” and second, between the expressions “continuation of

pending suits” and “proceedings against the corporate debtor…”. The

sweep of the provision is very wide indeed as it includes institution,

continuation, judgment and execution of suits and proceedings. It is

important to note that an award of an arbitration panel or an order of an

authority is also included. This being the case, it would be incongruous to

hold that the expression “the institution of suits or continuation of pending

suits” must be read disjunctively as otherwise, the institution of arbitral

proceedings and proceedings before authorities cannot be subsumed

within the expression institution of “suits” which are proceedings in civil

courts instituted by a plaint (see Section 26 of the Code of Civil

Procedure, 1908). Therefore, it is clear that the expression “institution of

suits or continuation of pending suits” is to be read as one category, and

the disjunctive “or” before the word “proceedings” would make it clear that

proceedings against the corporate debtor would be a separate category.

What throws light on the width of the expression “proceedings” is the

expression “any judgment, decree or order” and “any court of law,

tribunal, arbitration panel or other authority”. Since criminal proceedings

under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 [“ CrPC ”] are conducted

before the courts mentioned in Section 6 , CrPC, it is clear that a Section

138 proceeding being conducted before a Magistrate would certainly be a

proceeding in a court of law in respect of a transaction which relates to a 16 debt owed by the corporate debtor. Let us now see as to whether the

expression “proceedings” can be cut down to mean civil proceedings

stricto sensu by the use of rules of interpretation such as ejusdem generis

and noscitur a sociis. 15. Shri Aman Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor General, relied upon

the judgment in State of Assam v. Ranga Mahammad, (1967) 1 SCR 454. The Court was concerned with the meaning of the expression

“posting” which occurs in Article 233 of the Constitution, qua District

Judges in a State. Applying the doctrine of noscitur a sociis, this Court

held that given the fact that the expression “posting” comes in between

“appointment” and “promotion” of District Judges, it is clear that a

narrower meaning has to be assigned to it, namely, that of assigning

someone to a post which would not include “transfer”. Quite apart from

the positioning of the word “posting” in between “appointment” and

“promotion”, from which it took its colour, even otherwise, Articles 234 and 235 of the Constitution would make it clear that since “transfer” of District

Judges is with the High Court and not with the State Government, quite

obviously, the expression “posting” could not be used in its wider sense –

see pages 460 and 461. This judgment is an early application of the rule

of noscitur a sociis, given the position of a wider word between two 17 narrow words, and more importantly, the reading of other allied provisions

in the Constitution. 16. In Jagdish Chander Gupta v. Kajaria Traders (India) Ltd. , (1964)

8 SCR 50, a five-Judge Bench of this Court had to decide as to whether

the expression “or other proceeding” occurring in Section 69(3) of the

Indian Partnership Act, 1932 would include a proceeding to appoint an

arbitrator under Section 8(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940. This Court held: CCE [(1990) 3 SCC 447], Oswal Agro Mills Ltd. v. CCE [1993 Supp (3) SCC 716], K. Bhagirathi G. Shenoy v. K.P.
 Ballakuraya [( 1999) 4 SCC 135] and Lokmat Newspapers (P)
 Ltd. v. Shankarprasad [(1999) 6 SCC 275 : 1999 SCC (L&S)
 1090]. 21 27. If so, we have to gauge the implication of the words
 “proceeding relating exclusively to the territory” from the
 surrounding context. Section 89 of the Act says that
 proceeding pending prior to the appointed day before “a court
 (other than the High Court), tribunal, authority or officer” shall
 stand transferred to the “corresponding court, tribunal,
 authority or officer” of Jharkhand State. A very useful index is
 provided in the Section by defining the words “corresponding
 court, tribunal, authority or officer in the State of Jharkhand”
 as this: [ Section 89(3)(b)(i) ]
 “The court, tribunal, authority or officer in which, or
 before whom, the proceeding would have laid if it
 had been instituted after the appointed day;” 28. Look at the words “would have laid if it had been instituted
 after the appointed day”. In considering the question as to
 where the proceeding relating to the 36 cases involved in
 these appeals would have laid, had they been instituted after
 the appointed day, we have absolutely no doubt that the
 meaning of the word “exclusively” should be understood as
 “substantially all or for the greater part or principally”. 29. We cannot overlook the main object of Section 89 of the
 Act. It must not be forgotten that transfer of criminal cases is
 not the only subject covered by the Section. The provision
 seeks to allocate the files or records relating to all
 proceedings, after the bifurcation if they were to be instituted
 after the appointed day. Any interpretation should be one
 which achieves that object and not that which might create
 confusion or perplexity or even bewilderment to the officers of
 the respective States. In other words, the interpretation should
 be made with pragmatism, not pedantically or in a stilted
 manner. For the purpose of criminal cases, we should bear in
 mind the subject-matter of the case to be transferred. When
 so considering, we have to take into account further that all
 the 36 cases are primarily for the offences under the PC Act and hence they are all triable before the Courts of Special
 Judges. Hence, the present question can be determined by
 reference to the provisions of the PC Act .” 19. In Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. State of U.P. , (2005) 2 SCC 515,

a Constitution Bench of this Court had to construe the meaning of the 22 expression “luxury” in Entry 62 of List 2 of the Seventh Schedule to the

Constitution of India. In this context, the rule of noscitur a sociis was

applied by the Court, the Court also pointing out how a court must be

careful before blindly applying the principle, as follows: xxx xxx xxx 81. We are aware that the maxim of noscitur a sociis may be a
 treacherous one unless the “societas” to which the “socii”
 belong, are known. The risk may be present when there is no
 other factor except contiguity to suggest the “societas”. But
 where there is, as here, a term of wide denotation which is not
 free from ambiguity, the addition of the words such as
 “including” is sufficiently indicative of the societas. As we have
 said, the word “includes” in the present context indicates a
 commonality or shared features or attributes of the including
 word with the included. xxx xxx xxx 83. Hence on an application of general principles of
 interpretation, we would hold that the word “luxuries” in Entry
 62 of List II means the activity of enjoyment of or indulgence in
 that which is costly or which is generally recognised as being
 beyond the necessary requirements of an average member of
 society and not articles of luxury.” 20. In Vikram Singh v. Union of India , (2015) 9 SCC 502, this Court

was asked to construe the expression “government or any other person”

contained in Section 364-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 with reference

to ejusdem generis. This Court, in repelling the contention, went on to

hold: 24 If no class can be found, ejusdem generis rule is not
 attracted and such broad construction as the
 subsequent words may admit will be favoured. As a
 learned author puts it: Parliament did not use multiple expressions in the provision
constituting a distinct genus class or category. It used only
one single expression viz. “Government” which does not
constitute a genus, even when it may be a specie. The
situation, at hand, is somewhat similar to what has been
enunciated in Craies on Statute Law (7th Edn.) at pp. 181-82
in the following passage: Attorney General for Newfoundland [(1939) 1 All ER
 423 (PC)].) ‘Unless you can find a category’, said
 Farwell L.J. ( Tillmanns and Co. v. S.S. Knutsford
 Ltd. [(1908) 2 KB 385 (CA)] ), ‘there is no room for
 the application of the ejusdem generis doctrine’, and
 where the words are clearly wide in their meaning
 they ought not to be qualified on the ground of their
 association with other words. For instance, where a
 local Act required that ‘theatres and other places of
 public entertainment’ should be licensed, the
 question arose whether a ‘fun-fair’ for which no fee
 was charged for admission was within the Act. It
 was held to be so, and that the ejusdem generis
 rule did not apply to confine the words ‘other places’
 to places of the same kind as theatres. So the
 insertion of such words as ‘or things of whatever
 description’ would exclude the rule. ( Attorney
 General v. Leicester Corpn. [(1910) 2 Ch 359 : To elaborate, the submission is the words “incite to
 cause an offence” should be read to give attributes
 and characteristics of criminality to the word
 “defamation”. It must have the potentiality to lead to
 breach of peace and public order. It has been urged
 that the intention of clause (2) of Article 19 is to
 include a public law remedy in respect of a grievance
 that has a collective impact but not as an actionable
 claim under the common law by an individual and,
 therefore, the word “defamation” has to be
 understood in that context, as the associate words
 are “incitement to an offence” would so warrant. Mr
 Rao, learned Senior Counsel, astutely canvassed
 that unless the word “defamation” is understood in
 this manner applying the principle of noscitur a sociis,
 the cherished and natural right of freedom of speech
 and expression which has been recognised under Article 19(1)(a) would be absolutely at peril. Mr
 Narasimha, learned ASG would contend that the said
 rule of construction would not be applicable to 29 understand the meaning of the term “defamation”. Be
it noted, while construing the provision of Article
19(2) , it is the duty of the Court to keep in view the
exalted spirit, essential aspects, the value and
philosophy of the Constitution. There is no doubt that
the principle of noscitur a sociis can be taken
recourse to in order to understand and interpret the
Constitution but while applying the principle, one has
to keep in mind the contours and scope of
applicability of the said principle. 71. In State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha
[State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha, AIR
1960 SC 610 : (1960) 2 SCR 866] , it has been held
that it must be borne in mind that noscitur a sociis is
merely a rule of construction and it cannot prevail in
cases where it is clear that wider words have been
deliberately used in order to make the scope of the
defined word correspondingly wider. It is only where
the intention of the legislature in associating wider
words with words of narrower significance is doubtful,
or otherwise not clear that the said rule of
construction can be usefully applied. It can also be
applied where the meaning of the words of wider
import is doubtful; but, where the object of the
legislature in using wider words is clear and free of
ambiguity, the rule of construction in question cannot
be pressed into service. 72. In Bank of India v. Vijay Transport [Bank of India v. Vijay Transport, 1988 Supp SCC 47] , the Court
was dealing with the contention that a literal
interpretation is not always the only interpretation of a
provision in a statute and the court has to look at the
setting in which the words are used and the
circumstances in which the law came to be passed to
decide whether there is something implicit behind the
words actually used which would control the literal
meaning of the words used. For the said purpose,
reliance was placed on R.L. Arora v. State of U.P.
[R.L. Arora v. State of U.P., (1964) 6 SCR 784 : AIR
1964 SC 1230] Dealing with the said aspect, the
Court has observed thus: ( Vijay Transport case [ Bank 30 of India v. Vijay Transport , 1988 Supp SCC 47], SCC
p. 51, para 11)
 ‘11. … It may be that in interpreting the words
 of the provision of a statute, the setting in which
 such words are placed may be taken into
 consideration, but that does not mean that even
 though the words which are to be interpreted
 convey a clear meaning, still a different
 interpretation or meaning should be given to
 them because of the setting. In other words,
 while the setting of the words may sometimes
 be necessary for the interpretation of the words
 of the statute, but that has not been ruled by
 this Court to be the only and the surest method
 of interpretation.’ 73. The Constitution Bench, in Godfrey Phillips
(India) Ltd. v. State of U.P. [Godfrey Phillips (India)
Ltd. v. State of U.P., (2005) 2 SCC 515], while
expressing its opinion on the aforesaid rule of
construction, opined: (SCC pp. 550 & 551, paras 81
& 83)
 ‘81. We are aware that the maxim of noscitur a
 sociis may be a treacherous one unless the
 “societas” to which the “socii” belong, are
 known. The risk may be present when there is
 no other factor except contiguity to suggest the
 “societas”. But where there is, as here, a term
 of wide denotation which is not free from
 ambiguity, the addition of the words such as
 “including” is sufficiently indicative of
 the societas. As we have said, the word
 “includes” in the present context indicates a
 commonality or shared features or attributes of
 the including word with the included. *** 83. Hence on an application of general
 principles of interpretation, we would hold that
 the word “luxuries” in Entry 62 of List II means
 the activity of enjoyment of or indulgence in that
 which is costly or which is generally recognised
 as being beyond the necessary requirements of 31 an average member of society and not articles
 of luxury.’ 74. At this juncture, we may note that in Ahmedabad
Private Primary Teachers’ Assn. v. Administrative
Officer [Ahmedabad Private Primary Teachers’
Assn. v. Administrative Officer, (2004) 1 SCC 755 : They take as it were their colour from each
 other, that is, the more general is restricted to a
 sense analogous to a less general.”’

 The learned author on further discussion has
 expressed the view that meaning of a word is to
 be judged from the company it keeps i.e.
 reference to words found in immediate
 connection with them. It applies when two or
 more words are susceptible of analogous
 meanings are coupled together, to be read and
 understood in their cognate sense. [G.P. Singh,
 Principles of Statutory Interpretation (8th Edn.) 379.] Noscitur a sociis is merely a rule of
 construction and cannot prevail where it is clear 32 that wider and diverse etymology is intentionally
 and deliberately used in the provision. It is only
 when and where the intention of the legislature
 in associating wider words with words of
 narrowest significance is doubtful or otherwise
 not clear, that the rule of noscitur a sociis is
 useful.” 86. It is clear from a reading of these judgments that noscitur
 a sociis being a mere rule of construction cannot be applied in
 the present case as it is clear that wider words have been
 deliberately used in a residuary provision, to make the scope
 of the definition of “financial debt” subsume matters which are
 not found in the other sub-clauses of Section 5(8) . This
 contention must also, therefore, be rejected.” 22. A reading of these judgments would show that ejusdem generis and

noscitur a sociis, being rules as to the construction of statutes, cannot be

exalted to nullify the plain meaning of words used in a statute if they are

designedly used in a wide sense. Importantly, where a residuary phrase is

used as a catch-all expression to take within its scope what may

reasonably be comprehended by a provision, regard being had to its

object and setting, noscitur a sociis cannot be used to colour an otherwise

wide expression so as to whittle it down and stultify the object of a

statutory provision. OBJECT OF SECTION 14 OF THE IBC 23. This then brings us to the object sought to be achieved by Section

14 of the IBC. The Report of the Insolvency Law Committee of February, 33 2020 throws some light on Section 14 . Paragraphs 8.2 and 8.11 thereof

read as follows: SECTION 14 IN RELATION TO OTHER MORATORIUM SECTIONS IN
THE IBC 26. Even otherwise, when some of the other provisions as to

moratorium are seen in the context of individuals and firms, the provisions

of Section 14 become even clearer. Thus, in Part III of the IBC, which

deals with insolvency resolution and bankruptcy for individuals and

partnership firms, Section 81 , which occurs in Chapter II thereof, entitled

“Fresh Start Process”, an interim moratorium is imposed thus: 27. When the language of Section 14 and Section 85 are contrasted, it

becomes clear that though the language of Section 85 is only in respect

of debts, the moratorium contained in Section 14 is not subject specific.

The only light thrown on the subject is by the exception provision 39 contained in Section 14(3)(a) which is that “transactions” are the subject

matter of Section 14(1) . “Transaction” is, as we have seen, a much wider

expression than “debt”, and subsumes it. Also, the expression

“proceedings” used by the legislature in Section 14(1)(a) is not trammelled

by the word “legal” as a prefix that is contained in the moratorium

provisions qua individuals and firms. Likewise, the provisions of Section

96 and Section 101 are moratorium provisions in Chapter III of Part III

dealing with the insolvency resolution process of individuals and firms, the

same expression, namely, “debts” is used as is used in Section 85 . Sections 96 and 101 read as follows: Coal India Ltd., (2019) 5 SCC 192 (at pages 202-203). This, coupled with

the fact that the Section is not limited to ‘recovery’ of any debt, would 41 indicate that any legal proceeding even indirectly relatable to recovery of

any debt would be covered. 28. When the language of these Sections is juxtaposed against the

language of Section 14 , it is clear that the width of Section 14 is even

greater, given that Section 14 declares a moratorium prohibiting what is

mentioned in clauses (a) to (d) thereof in respect of transactions entered

into by the corporate debtor, inclusive of transactions relating to debts, as

is contained in Sections 81 , 85 , 96 , and 101 . Also, Section 14(1)(d) is

conspicuous by its absence in any of these Sections. Thus, where

individuals or firms are concerned, the recovery of any property by an

owner or lessor, where such property is occupied by or in possession of

the individual or firm can be recovered during the moratorium period,

unlike the property of a corporate debtor. For all these reasons, therefore,

given the object and context of Section 14 , the expression “proceedings”

cannot be cut down by any rule of construction and must be given a fair

meaning consonant with the object and context. It is conceded before us

that criminal proceedings which are not directly related to transactions

evidencing debt or liability of the corporate debtor would be outside the

scope of this expression. 42 29. V. Ramakrishnan (supra) looked at and contrasted Section 14 with Sections 96 and 101 from the point of view of a guarantor to a debt, and

in this context, held: THE INTERPLAY BETWEEN SECTION 14 AND SECTION 32A OF THE
IBC 30. Shri Mehta, however, strongly relied upon Section 32A(1) of the

IBC, which was introduced by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code

(Amendment) Act, 2020 , to argue that the first proviso to Section 32A(1)

would make it clear that “prosecutions” that had been instituted during the

corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor will

result in a discharge of the corporate debtor from the prosecution, subject

to the other requirements of sub-section (1) having been fulfilled.

According to him, therefore, a prosecution of the corporate debtor under Section 138 / 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act can be instituted

during the corporate insolvency resolution process, making it clear that

such prosecutions are, therefore, outside the ken of the moratorium

provisions contained in Section 14 of the IBC. Section 32A(1) of the IBC

reads as follows: 31. The raison d’être for the enactment of Section 32A has been stated

by the Report of the Insolvency Law Committee of February, 2020, which

is as follows: 32. This Court, in Manish Kumar v. Union of India , 2021 SCC OnLine

SC 30, upheld the constitutional validity of this provision. This Court

observed: 33. Section 32A cannot possibly be said to throw any light on the true

interpretation of Section 14(1)(a) as the reason for introducing Section

32A had nothing whatsoever to do with any moratorium provision. At the 48 heart of the Section is the extinguishment of criminal liability of the

corporate debtor, from the date the resolution plan has been approved by

the Adjudicating Authority, so that the new management may make a

clean break with the past and start on a clean slate. A moratorium

provision, on the other hand, does not extinguish any liability, civil or

criminal, but only casts a shadow on proceedings already initiated and on

proceedings to be initiated, which shadow is lifted when the moratorium

period comes to an end. Also, Section 32A(1) operates only after the

moratorium comes to an end. At the heart of Section 32A is the IBC’s goal

of value maximisation and the need to obviate lower recoveries to

creditors as a result of the corporate debtor continuing to be exposed to

criminal liability. Unfortunately, the Section is inelegantly drafted. The

second proviso to Section 32A(1) speaks of persons who are in any

manner in charge of, or responsible to the corporate debtor for the

conduct of its business or associated with the corporate debtor and who

are, directly or indirectly, involved in the commission of “such offence”,

i.e., the offence referred to in sub-section (1), “as per the report submitted

or complaint filed by the investigating authority …”. The report submitted

here refers to a police report under Section 173 of the CrPC, and

complaints filed by investigating authorities under special Acts, as

opposed to private complaints. If the language of the second proviso is

taken to interpret the language of Section 32A(1) in that the “offence 49 committed” under Section 32A(1) would not include offences based upon

complaints under Section 2(d) of the CrPC, the width of the language

would be cut down and the object of Section 32A(1) would not be

achieved as all prosecutions emanating from private complaints would be

excluded. Obviously, Section 32A(1) cannot be read in this fashion and

clearly incudes the liability of the corporate debtor for all offences

committed prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency

resolution process. Doubtless, a Section 138 proceeding would be

included, and would, after the moratorium period comes to an end with a

resolution plan by a new management being approved by the Adjudicating

Authority, cease to be an offence qua the corporate debtor. 34. A section which has been introduced by an amendment into an Act

with its focus on cesser of liability for offences committed by the corporate

debtor prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution

process cannot be so construed so as to limit, by a sidewind as it were,

the moratorium provision contained in Section 14 , with which it is not at all

concerned. If the first proviso to Section 32A(1) is read in the manner

suggested by Shri Mehta, it will impact Section 14 by taking out of its ken Section 138 / 141 proceedings, which is not the object of Section 32A(1) at

all. Assuming, therefore, that there is a clash between Section 14 of the

IBC and the first proviso of Section 32A(1), this clash is best resolved by 50 applying the doctrine of harmonious construction so that the objects of

both the provisions get subserved in the process, without damaging or

limiting one provision at the expense of the other. If, therefore, the

expression “prosecution” in the first proviso of Section 32A(1) refers to

criminal proceedings properly so-called either through the medium of a

First Information Report or complaint filed by an investigating authority or

complaint and not to quasi-criminal proceedings that are instituted under

Sections 138/141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act against the corporate

debtor, the object of Section 14(1) of the IBC gets subserved, as does

the object of Section 32A, which does away with criminal prosecutions in

all cases against the corporate debtor, thus absolving the corporate

debtor from the same after a new management comes in.

THE NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER XVII OF THE
NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS ACT 35. This brings us to the nature of proceedings under Chapter XVII of

the Negotiable Instruments Act . Sections 138 to 142 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act were added by Chapter XVII by an Amendment Act of

1988. Section 138 reads as follows: Explanation.—For the purposes of this Section, “debt or
 other liability” means a legally enforceable debt or other
 liability.” 36. Section 138 contains within it the ingredients of the offence made

out. The deeming provision is important in that the legislature is cognizant

of the fact that what is otherwise a civil liability is now also deemed to be

an offence, since this liability is made punishable by law. It is important to

note that the transaction spoken of is a commercial transaction between

two parties which involves payment of money for a debt or liability. The 52 explanation to Section 138 makes it clear that such debt or other liability

means a legally enforceable debt or other liability. Thus, a debt or other

liability barred by the law of limitation would be outside the scope of Section 138 . This, coupled with fine that may extend to twice the amount

of the cheque that is payable as compensation to the aggrieved party to

cover both the amount of the cheque and the interest and costs

thereupon, would show that it is really a hybrid provision to enforce

payment under a bounced cheque if it is otherwise enforceable in civil

law. Further, though the ingredients of the offence are contained in the

first part of Section 138 when the cheque is returned by the bank unpaid

for the reasons given in the Section, the proviso gives an opportunity to

the drawer of the cheque, stating that the drawer must fail to make

payment of the amount within 15 days of the receipt of a notice, again

making it clear that the real object of the provision is not to penalise the

wrongdoer for an offence that is already made out, but to compensate the

victim. 37. Likewise, under Section 139 , a presumption is raised that the holder

of a cheque received the cheque for the discharge, in whole or in part, of

any debt or other liability. To rebut this presumption, facts must be

adduced which, on a preponderance of probability (not beyond

reasonable doubt as in the case of criminal offences), must then be 53 proved. Section 140 is also important, in that it shall not be a defence in a

prosecution for an offence under Section 138 that the drawer had no

reason to believe when he issued the cheque that the cheque may be

dishonoured on presentment for the reasons stated in that Section, thus

making it clear that strict liability will attach, mens rea being no ingredient

of the offence. Section 141 then makes Directors and other persons

statutorily liable, provided the ingredients of the section are met.

Interestingly, for the purposes of this Section, explanation (a) defines

“company” as meaning any body corporate and includes a firm or other

association of individuals. 38. We have already seen how the language of Sections 96 and 101 would include a Section 138 / 141 proceeding against a firm so that the

moratorium stated therein would apply to such proceedings. If Shri

Mehta’s arguments were to be accepted, under the same Section,

namely, Section 141 , two different results would ensue – so far as bodies

corporate, which include limited liability partnerships, are concerned, the

moratorium provision contained in Section 14 of the IBC would not apply,

but so far as a partnership firm is concerned, being covered by Sections

96 and 101 of the IBC, a Section 138 / 141 proceeding would be stopped in

its tracks by virtue of the moratorium imposed by these Sections. Thus,

under Section 141(1) , whereas a Section 138 proceeding against a 54 corporate body would continue after initiation of the corporate insolvency

resolution process, yet, the same proceeding against a firm, being

interdicted by Sections 96 and 101 , would not so continue. This startling

result is one of the consequences of accepting the argument of Shri

Mehta, which again leads to the position that inelegant drafting alone

cannot lead to such startling results, the object of Sections 14 and 96 and 101 being the same, namely, to see that during the insolvency resolution

process for corporate persons/individuals and firms, the corporate

body/firm/individual should be given breathing space to recuperate for a

successful resolution of its debts – in the case of a corporate debtor,

through a new management coming in; and in the case of individuals and

firms, through resolution plans which are accepted by a committee of

creditors, by which the debtor is given breathing space in which to pay

back his/its debts, which would result in creditors getting more than they

would in a bankruptcy proceeding against an individual or a firm. 39. Section 142 is important and is set out hereunder: Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (a), where a
 cheque is delivered for collection at any branch of the bank of
 the payee or holder in due course, then, the cheque shall be
 deemed to have been delivered to the branch of the bank in
 which the payee or holder in due course, as the case may be,
 maintains the account.” 40. A cursory reading of Section 142 will again make it clear that the

procedure under the CrPC has been departed from. First and foremost,

no court is to take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 138 except on a complaint made in writing by the payee or the holder in due

course of the cheque – the victim. Further, the language of Section 142(1) (b) would again show the hybrid nature of these provisions inasmuch as a

complaint must be made within one month of the date on which the 56 “cause of action” under clause (c) of the proviso to Section 138 arises.

The expression “cause of action” is a foreigner to criminal jurisprudence,

and would apply only in civil cases to recover money. Chapter XIII of the CrPC , consisting of Sections 177 to 189, is a chapter dealing with the

jurisdiction of the criminal courts in inquiries and trials. When the

jurisdiction of a criminal court is spoken of by these Sections, the

expression “cause of action” is conspicuous by its absence. 41. By an Amendment Act of 2002, various other sections were added

to this Chapter. Thus, under Section 143 , it is lawful for a Magistrate to

pass a sentence of imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year and a

fine exceeding INR 5,000/- summarily. This provision is again an

important pointer to the fact that the payment of compensation is at the

heart of the provision in that a fine exceeding INR 5000/-, the sky being

the limit, can be imposed by way of a summary trial which, after

application of Section 357 of the CrPC, results in compensating the victim

up to twice the amount of the bounced cheque. Under Section 144 , the

mode of service of summons is done as in civil cases, eschewing the

mode contained in Sections 62 to 64 of the CrPC. Likewise, under Section 145 , evidence is to be given by the complainant on affidavit, as it

is given in civil proceedings, notwithstanding anything contained in the CrPC . Most importantly, by Section 147 , offences under this Act are 57 compoundable without any intervention of the court, as is required by Section 320(2) of the CrPC. 42. By another amendment made in 2018, the hybrid nature of these

provisions gets a further tilt towards a civil proceeding, by the power to

direct interim compensation under Sections 143A and 148 which are set

out hereinbelow: 43. With this analysis of Chapter XVII, let us look at some of the

decided cases. In CIT v. Ishwarlal Bhagwandas , (1966) 1 SCR 190, this

Court distinguished between civil proceedings and criminal proceedings in

the context of Article 132 of the Constitution thus: 59 44. In Goaplast (P) Ltd. v. Chico Ursula D’Souza , (2003) 3 SCC 232,

the object sought to be achieved by Section 138 is succinctly set out in

paragraph 3 thereof: 45. In Vinay Devanna Nayak v. Ryot Sewa Sahakari Bank Ltd. ,

(2008) 2 SCC 305, a Division Bench of this Court referred to the object of Section 138 thus: 46. Damodar S. Prabhu v. Sayed Babalal H. , (2010) 5 SCC 663 is an

important judgment of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court. This judgment

dealt, in particular, with the compounding provision contained in Section

147 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Setting out the provision, the Court

held: However, since Section 147 was inserted by way of an
amendment to a special law, the same will override the effect
of Section 320(9) CrPC, especially keeping in mind that Section 147 carries a non obstante clause.”
xxx xxx xxx
“15. The compounding of the offence at later stages of
litigation in cheque bouncing cases has also been held to be
permissible in a recent decision of this Court, reported
as K.M. Ibrahim v. K.P. Mohammed [(2010) 1 SCC 798 : Pvt. Ltd., 2009) at p. 5]: 17. The apparent intention is to ensure that not only the
offender is punished, but also ensure that the complainant
invariably receives the amount of the cheque by way of
compensation under Section 357(1)(b) of the Code. Though a
complaint under Section 138 of the Act is in regard to criminal
liability for the offence of dishonouring the cheque and not for 71 the recovery of the cheque amount (which strictly speaking,
 has to be enforced by a civil suit), in practice once the criminal
 complaint is lodged under Section 138 of the Act, a civil suit is
 seldom filed to recover the amount of the cheque. This is
 because of the provision enabling the court to levy a fine
 linked to the cheque amount and the usual direction in such
 cases is for payment as compensation, the cheque amount,
 as loss incurred by the complainant on account of dishonour
 of cheque, under Section 357(1)(b) of the Code and the
 provision for compounding the offences under Section 138 of
 the Act. Most of the cases (except those where liability is
 denied) get compounded at one stage or the other by
 payment of the cheque amount with or without interest. Even
 where the offence is not compounded, the courts tend to
 direct payment of compensation equal to the cheque amount
 (or even something more towards interest) by levying a fine
 commensurate with the cheque amount. A stage has reached
 when most of the complainants, in particular the financing
 institutions (particularly private financiers) view the
 proceedings under Section 138 of the Act, as a proceeding for
 the recovery of the cheque amount, the punishment of the
 drawer of the cheque for the offence of dishonour, becoming
 secondary.”
 (emphasis supplied) 49. In Dashrath Rupsingh Rathod v. State of Maharashtra , (2014) 9

SCC 129, a three-Judge Bench of this Court answered the question as to

whether the territorial jurisdiction for filing of cheque dishonour complaints

is restricted to the court within whose territorial jurisdiction the offence is

committed, which is the location where the cheque is dishonoured, i.e.,

returned unpaid by the bank on which it is drawn. This judgment has been

legislatively overruled by Section 142(2) of the Negotiable Instruments Act 72 set out hereinabove. However, Shri Mehta relied upon paragraphs 15.2

and 17 of the judgment of Vikramjit Sen, J., which states as follows: This has been achieved by deeming the commission of an
 offence dehors mens rea not only under Section 138 but also
 by virtue of the succeeding two sections. Section 139 carves 73 out the presumption that the holder of a cheque has received
 it for the discharge of any liability. Section 140 clarifies that it
 will not be available as a defence to the drawer that he had no
 reason to believe, when he issued the cheque, that it would be
 dishonoured. Section 138 unequivocally states that the
 offence is committed no sooner the drawee bank returns the
 cheque unpaid.”

The focus in this case was on the court within whose jurisdiction the

offence under Section 138 can be said to have taken place. This case,

therefore, has no direct relevance to the point that has been urged before

us. 50. In Lafarge Aggregates & Concrete India (P) Ltd. v. Sukarsh

Azad , (2014) 13 SCC 779, this Court, continuing the trend of the earlier

judgments in describing the hybrid nature of these provisions, held: 1881, is not merely penal in nature but is to maintain the
 efficiency and value of a negotiable instrument by making the
 accused honour the negotiable instrument and paying the
 amount for which the instrument had been executed. 8. The object of bringing Sections 138 to 142 of the
 Negotiable Instruments Act on statute appears to be to
 inculcate faith in the efficacy of banking operations and
 credibility in transacting business of negotiable instruments.
 Despite several remedies, Section 138 of the Act is intended
 to prevent dishonesty on the part of the drawer of negotiable
 instrument to draw a cheque without sufficient funds in his
 account maintained by him in a bank and induces the payee
 or holder in due course to act upon it. Therefore, once a
 cheque is drawn by a person of an account maintained by him
 for payment of any amount or discharge of liability or debt or is
 returned by a bank with endorsement like (i) refer to drawer, (ii) exceeds arrangements, and (iii) instruction for stop
 payment and like other usual endorsement, it amounts to
 dishonour within the meaning of Section 138 of the Act.
 Therefore, even after issuance of notice if the payee or holder
 does not make the payment within the stipulated period, the
 statutory presumption would be of dishonest intention
 exposing to criminal liability.”
 xxx xxx xxx
 “10. However, in the interest of equity, justice and fair play, we
 deem it appropriate to direct the respondents to make the
 payment to the appellant by issuing a demand draft in their
 favour for a sum of Rs 5 lakhs, which would be treated as an
 overall amount including interest and compensation towards
 the cheque for which stop-payment instructions had been
 issued. If the same is not acceptable to the appellant, it is their
 choice but that would not allow them to prosecute the
 respondents herein in pursuance to the complaint which they
 have lodged implicating these two respondents.” 51. In Meters and Instruments (P) Ltd. v. Kanchan Mehta , (2018) 1

SCC 560, this Court noticed the object of Section 138 and the

amendments made to Chapter XVII, and summarised the case law as

follows: 75 Though proceedings under Section 138 could not be treated
as civil suits for recovery, the scheme of the provision,
providing for punishment with imprisonment or with fine which
could extend to twice the amount of the cheque or to both,
made the intention of law clear. The complainant could be
given not only the cheque amount but double the amount so
as to cover interest and costs. Section 357(1)(b) CrPC
provides for payment of compensation for the loss caused by 76 the offence out of the fine. [ R. Vijayan v. Baby , (2012) 1 SCC
 260, p. 264, para 9 : (2012) 1 SCC (Civ) 79 : (2012) 1 SCC
 (Cri) 520] Where fine is not imposed, compensation can be
 awarded under Section 357(3) CrPC to the person who
 suffered loss. Sentence in default can also be imposed. The
 object of the provision is not merely penal but to make the
 accused honour the negotiable instruments. [ Lafarge
 Aggregates & Concrete India (P) Ltd. v. Sukarsh Azad , (2014)
 13 SCC 779, p. 781, para 7 : (2014) 5 SCC (Cri) 818]”

The Court then concluded: Such affidavit evidence can be read as evidence at all stages
 of trial or other proceedings. The manner of examination of
 the person giving affidavit can be as per Section 264 CrPC.
 The scheme is to follow summary procedure except where
 exercise of power under second proviso to Section 143 becomes necessary, where sentence of one year may have to
 be awarded and compensation under Section 357(3) is
 considered inadequate, having regard to the amount of the
 cheque, the financial capacity and the conduct of the accused
 or any other circumstances.”2
 (emphasis supplied) 52. In a recent judgment in M. Abbas Haji v. T.N. Channakeshava ,
(2019) 9 SCC 606, this Court held: 53. A conspectus of these judgments would show that the gravamen of

a proceeding under Section 138 , though couched in language making the

act complained of an offence, is really in order to get back through a

summary proceeding, the amount contained in the dishonoured cheque

together with interest and costs, expeditiously and cheaply. We have

already seen how it is the victim alone who can file the complaint which

ordinarily culminates in the payment of fine as compensation which may

extend to twice the amount of the cheque which would include the amount

of the cheque and the interest and costs thereupon. Given our analysis of Chapter XVII of the Negotiable Instruments Act together with the

amendments made thereto and the case law cited hereinabove, it is clear

that a quasi-criminal proceeding that is contained in Chapter XVII of the

Negotiable Instruments Act would, given the object and context of Section

14 of the IBC, amount to a “proceeding” within the meaning of Section

14(1)(a) , the moratorium therefore attaching to such proceeding.

QUASI-CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS 79 54. Shri Lekhi, learned Additional Solicitor General, took strong

objection to the use of the expression “quasi-criminal” to describe

proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, which,

according to him, can only be described as criminal proceedings. This is

for the reason that these proceedings result in imprisonment or fine or

both, which are punishments that can be imposed only in criminal

proceedings as stated by Section 53 of the Indian Penal Code. It is

difficult to agree with Shri Lekhi. There are many instances of acts which

are punishable by imprisonment or fine or both which have been

described as quasi-criminal. One instance is the infraction of Section 630 of the Companies Act, 1956. This section reads as follows: he shall, on the complaint of the company or any creditor or
 contributory thereof, be punishable with fine which may extend
 to ten thousand rupees. (2) The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or
 employee to deliver up or refund, within a time to be fixed by
 the Court, any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully
 withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default, to suffer
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.” 80 In Abhilash Vinodkumar Jain v. Cox & Kings (India) Ltd. , (1995) 3

SCC 732, this Court examined whether a petition under Section 630 of

the Companies Act, 1956 is maintainable against the legal heirs of a

deceased officer or employee for retrieval of the company’s property. In

holding that it was so retrievable, this Court held: section is to be understood in the nature of ‘compensation’ for
 wrongful withholding of the property of the company. Under
 sub-section (2) what is made punishable is the disobedience
 of the order of the Court, directing the person, continuing in
 occupation, after the right of the employee or the officer to
 occupation has extinguished, to deliver up or refund within a
 time to be fixed by the court, the property of the company
 obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied.
 Thus, it is in the event of the disobedience of the order of the
 court, that imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
 years has been prescribed. The provision makes the defaulter, 81 whether an employee or a past employee or the legal heir of
 the employee, who disobeys the order of the court to hand
 back the property to the company within the prescribed time
 liable for punishment.”
 (emphasis supplied)

Having so held, the Court did not construe the provision strictly, which it

would have been bound to do had it been a purely criminal one, but

instead gave it a broad, liberal, and purposeful construction as follows: 55. Likewise, contempt of court proceedings have been described as

“quasi-criminal” in a long series of judgments. We may point out that the

predecessor to the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 , namely, the Contempt

of Courts Act, 1952 did not contain any definition of the expression

“contempt of court”. A Committee was appointed by the Government of

India, referred to as the Sanyal Committee, which then went into whether

this expression needs to be defined. The Sanyal Committee Report, 1963

then broadly divided contempts into two kinds – civil and criminal

contempt – as follows: 56. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Contempt of Courts

Act, 1971 expressly states that the said Act was in pursuance of the

Sanyal Committee Report as follows: 57. The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 defines “civil contempt” and

“criminal contempt” as follows: 86 xxx xxx xxx” 58. Whether the contempt committed is civil or criminal, the High Court

is empowered to try such “offences” whether the person allegedly guilty is

within or outside its territorial jurisdiction. Thus, Section 11 of the

Contempt of Courts Act, states: 59. In criminal contempt cases, “cognizance” in contempts other than

those referred to in Section 14 of the Act is taken by the Supreme Court

or the High Court in the manner provided by Section 15 . Section 17 then

lays down the procedure that is to be followed after cognizance is taken.

Finally, by Section 23 , the Supreme Court and the High Courts are given

the power to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act,

providing for any matter relating to its procedure. 60. This Court, in Niaz Mohd. v. State of Haryana , (1994) 6 SCC 332,

spoke of the hybrid nature of a civil contempt as follows: This jurisdiction is required to be coextensive with the court's
 jurisdiction to make orders which need the protection which 90 the jurisdiction to make findings of contempt provides. In civil
 proceedings the court can now make orders (other than
 injunctions or for specific performance) against authorised
 government departments or the Attorney General. On
 applications for judicial review orders can be made against
 Ministers. In consequence such orders must be taken not to
 offend the theory that the Crown can supposedly do no wrong.
 Equally, if such orders are made and not obeyed, the body
 against whom the orders were made can be found guilty of
 contempt without offending that theory, which could be the
 only justifiable impediment against making a finding of
 contempt. (See M. v. Home Office [(1993) 3 All ER 537 : 61. The description of contempt proceedings being “quasi-criminal” in

nature has its origin in the celebrated Privy Council judgment of Andre

Paul Terence Ambard v. Attorney-General of Trinidad and Tobago ,

AIR 1936 PC 141 in which Lord Atkin referred to contempt of court

proceedings as quasi-criminal (see page 143). 62. In Sahdeo v. State of U.P. , (2010) 3 SCC 705, this Court again

referred to the “quasi-criminal” nature of contempt proceedings as follows: criminal in nature and orders passed in those proceedings are
to be treated as orders passed in criminal cases. 19. In S. Abdul Karim v. M.K. Prakash [(1976) 1 SCC 975 : 20. Similarly, in Mrityunjoy Das v. Sayed Hasibur Rahaman [(2001) 3 SCC 739 : (2006) 1 SCC (Cri) 296 : AIR 2001 SC
1293] this Court placing reliance upon a large number of its
earlier judgments, including V.G. Nigam v. Kedar Nath Gupta [(1992) 4 SCC 697 : 1993 SCC (L&S) 202 : (1993) 23 ATC
400 : AIR 1992 SC 2153] and Murray & Co. v. Ashok Kumar
Newatia [(2000) 2 SCC 367 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 473 : AIR 2000
SC 833], held that jurisdiction of contempt has been conferred
on the Court to punish an offender for his contemptuous
conduct or obstruction to the majesty of law, but in the case of
quasi-criminal in nature, charges have to be proved beyond
reasonable doubt and the alleged contemnor becomes
entitled to the benefit of doubt. It would be very hazardous to
impose sentence in contempt proceedings on some
probabilities. xxx xxx xxx 27. In view of the above, the law can be summarised that the
High Court has a power to initiate the contempt proceedings
suo motu for ensuring the compliance with the orders passed
by the Court. However, contempt proceedings being quasi-
criminal in nature, the same standard of proof is required in
the same manner as in other criminal cases. The alleged
contemnor is entitled to the protection of all safeguards/rights
which are provided in the criminal jurisprudence, including the
benefit of doubt. There must be a clear-cut case of obstruction 92 of administration of justice by a party intentionally to bring the
 matter within the ambit of the said provision. The alleged
 contemnor is to be informed as to what is the charge, he has
 to meet. Thus, specific charge has to be framed in precision.
 The alleged contemnor may ask the Court to permit him to
 cross-examine the witnesses i.e. the deponents of affidavits,
 who have deposed against him. In spite of the fact that
 contempt proceedings are quasi-criminal in nature, provisions
 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (hereinafter called
 “ CrPC ”) and the Evidence Act are not attracted for the reason
 that proceedings have to be concluded expeditiously. Thus,
 the trial has to be concluded as early as possible. The case
 should not rest only on surmises and conjectures. There must
 be clear and reliable evidence to substantiate the allegations
 against the alleged contemnor. The proceedings must be
 concluded giving strict adherence to the statutory rules framed
 for the purpose.”

In Maninderjit Singh Bitta v. Union of India , (2012) 1 SCC 273, this

Court again referred to “civil” and “criminal” contempt as follows: OTHER SECTIONS OF THE IBC IN RELATION TO SECTION 14 OF
THE IBC 65. Shri Mehta then argued that Section 33(5) of the IBC may also be

seen, as it is a provision analogous to Section 14(1)(a) . Section 33(5) states as follows: 66. In fact, several other provisions of the IBC may also be looked at in

this context. Thus, when it comes to the duties of a resolution professional

who takes over the management of the company during the corporate

insolvency resolution process, Section 25(2)(b) states as follows: judicial or arbitration proceedings; xxx xxx xxx”

Here again, given the fact that it is the resolution professional alone who

is now to preserve and protect the assets of the corporate debtor in this

interregnum, the resolution professional therefore is to represent and act

on behalf of the corporate debtor in all judicial, quasi-judicial, or arbitration

proceedings, which would include criminal proceedings. Here again, the

word “judicial” cannot be construed noscitur a sociis so as to cut down its

plain meaning, as otherwise, quasi-judicial or arbitration proceedings, not

being criminal proceedings, the word “judicial” would then take colour

from them. This would stultify the object sought to be achieved by Section

25 and result in an absurdity, namely, that during this interregnum, nobody 97 can represent or act on behalf of the corporate debtor in criminal

proceedings. Likewise, if a corporate debtor cannot be taken over by a

new management and has to be condemned to liquidation, the powers

and duties of the liquidator, while representing the corporate debtor, are

enumerated in Section 35 . Section 35(1)(k) , in particular, states as

follows: xxx xxx xxx”

This provision specifically speaks of “prosecution” and “criminal

proceedings”. Contrasted with Section 25(2)(b) and Section 33(5) , an

argument could be made that the absence of the expressions

“prosecution” and “criminal proceedings” in Section 25(2)(b) and Section

33(5) would show that they were designedly eschewed by the legislature.

We have seen how inelegant drafting cannot lead to absurd results or

results which stultify the object of a provision, given its otherwise wide

language. Thus, nothing can be gained by juxtaposing various provisions

against each other and arriving at conclusions that are plainly untenable

in law. 98 CASE LAW UNDER PROVISIONS OF OTHER STATUTES 67. Shri Mehta then relied strongly upon judgments under Section 22(1) of the SICA and under Section 446(2) of the Companies Act, 1956. He

relied upon BSI Ltd. v. Gift Holdings (P) Ltd. , (2000) 2 SCC 737, which

judgment held that the expression “suit” in Section 22(1) of the SICA

would not include a Section 138 proceeding. The Court was directly

concerned with only this expression and, therefore, held: Hence the legal principle adumbrated in the said decision is of
 no avail to the appellants. 21. In the above context it is pertinent to point out that Section
 138 of the NI Act was introduced in 1988 when SICA was
 already in vogue. Even when the amplitude of the word
 “company” mentioned in Section 141 of the NI Act was
 widened through the explanation added to the Section,
 Parliament did not think it necessary to exclude companies 99 falling under Section 22 of SICA from the operation thereof. If
 Parliament intended to exempt sick companies from
 prosecution proceedings, necessary provision would have
 been included in Section 141 of the NI Act. More significantly,
 when Section 22(1) of SICA was amended in 1994 by
 inserting the words
 “and no suit for the recovery of money or for the
 enforcement of any security against the industrial
 company or of any guarantee in respect of any
 loans or advance granted to the industrial
 company”
 Parliament did not specifically include prosecution
 proceedings within the ambit of the said ban.”

This case is wholly distinguishable as the word “proceedings” did not

come up for consideration at all. Further, given the object of Section 22(1) of the SICA, which was amended in 1994 by inserting the words that were

interpreted by this Court, parliament restricted proceedings only to suits

for recovery of money etc., thereby expressly not including prosecution

proceedings, as was held by this Court. The observations contained in

paragraph 20, that Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act is a

penal provision in a criminal proceeding cannot now be said to be good

law given the march of events, in particular, the amendments of 2002 and

2018 to the Negotiable Instruments Act , as pointed out hereinabove, and

the later judgments of this Court interpreting Chapter XVII of the

Negotiable Instruments Act . 68. The next decision relied upon by Shri Mehta is the judgment in Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Pennar Peterson Securities Ltd. , 100 (2000) 2 SCC 745, which merely followed this judgment (see paragraphs

15-18). 69. Likewise, all the judgments cited under Section 446(2) of the

Companies Act, 1956 are distinguishable. Section 446(2) states as

follows: whether such suit or proceeding has been instituted or is
 instituted, or such claim or question has arisen or arises or
 such application has been made or is made before or after the
 order for the winding up of the company, or before or after the
 commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960.
 xxx xxx xxx” 70. In S.V. Kandeakar v. V.M. Deshpande , (1972) 1 SCC 438 [“S.V.

Kandeakar”], this Court explained why income tax proceedings would be

outside the purview of Section 446(2) as follows: assessment of a company which is being wound up can only
 be started or continued with the leave of the liquidation court
 is also, on the scheme both of the Act and of the Income Tax
 Act , unacceptable. We have not been shown any principle on
 which the liquidation court should be vested with the power to
 stop assessment proceedings for determining the amount of
 tax payable by the company which is being wound up. The
 liquidation court would have full power to scrutinise the claim
 of the revenue after income tax has been determined and its
 payment demanded from the liquidator. It would be open to
 the liquidation court then to decide how far under the law the
 amount of income tax determined by the Department should
 be accepted as a lawful liability on the funds of the company
 in liquidation. At that stage the winding up court can fully
 safeguard the interests of the company and its creditors under
 the Act. Incidentally, it may be pointed out that at the Bar no
 English decision was brought to our notice under which the
 assessment proceedings were held to be controlled by the
 winding up court. On the view that we have taken, the
 decisions in the case of Seth Spinning Mills Ltd., (In
 Liquidation) and the Mysore Spun Silk Mills Ltd., (In
 Liquidation) do not seem to lay down the correct rule of law
 that the Income Tax Officers must obtain leave of the winding
 up court for commencing or continuing assessment or re-
 assessment proceedings.”

From this judgment, what becomes clear is the fact that the winding-up

court under Section 446(2) is to take up all matters which the company

court itself can conveniently dispose of rather than exposing a company

which is under winding up to expensive litigation in other courts. This 103 being the object of Section 446(2), the expression “proceeding” was given

a limited meaning as it is obvious that a company court cannot dispose of

an assessment proceeding in income tax or a criminal proceeding. This is

further made clear in Sudarshan Chits (I) Ltd. v. O. Sukumaran Pillai ,

(1984) 4 SCC 657 (at paragraph 8) and in Central Bank of India v.

Elmot Engineering Co. , (1994) 4 SCC 159 (at paragraph 14). 71. Shri Mehta also relied upon D.K. Kapur v. Reserve Bank of India ,

2001 SCC OnLine Del 67 : (2001) 58 DRJ 424 (DB). This judgment

referred to Section 446(1) and (2) of the Companies Act, 1956 and

contrasted the language contained therein with the language contained in

Section 457 of the same Act, which made it clear that the liquidator in a

winding up by the court shall have power, with the sanction of the court, to

institute or defend any suit, prosecution, or other legal proceeding, civil or

criminal, in the name and on behalf of the company. Thus, the Delhi High

Court held: 72. Shri Mehta’s reliance on Indorama Synthetics (I) Ltd. v. State of

Maharashtra , 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 2611 : (2016) 4 Mah LJ 249, is

also misplaced, for the reason that the finding of the Bombay High Court 105 that Section 138 proceedings were not included in Section 446 of the

Companies Act only follows the reasoning of the earlier judgments on the

scope of Section 446 of the Companies Act. Significantly, given the object

of Section 446 of the Companies Act, it was held that a Section 138 proceeding is not a proceeding which has a direct bearing on the

collection or distribution of assets in the winding up of a company. The

ultimate conclusion of the court is contained in paragraph 30, which reads

as follows: 73. As the language, object, and context of Section 22(1) of the SICA

and Section 446(2) of the Companies Act are far removed from Section

14(1) of the IBC, none of the aforesaid judgments have any application to Section 14 of the IBC and are therefore distinguishable. 74. Shri Mehta then relied upon Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.

v. Jyoti Structures Ltd. , 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12189 : (2018) 246 DLT

485, in which the Delhi High Court held that a Section 34 application to

set aside an award under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 would 106 not be covered by Section 14 of the IBC. This judgment does not state the

law correctly as it is clear that a Section 34 proceeding is certainly a

proceeding against the corporate debtor which may result in an arbitral

award against the corporate debtor being upheld, as a result of which,

monies would then be payable by the corporate debtor. A Section 34 proceeding is a proceeding against the corporate debtor in a court of law

pertaining to a challenge to an arbitral award and would be covered just

as an appellate proceeding in a decree from a suit would be covered. This

judgment does not, therefore, state the law correctly. 75. Shri Mehta then relied upon Inderjit C. Parekh v. V.K. Bhatt ,

(1974) 4 SCC 313. This judgment dealt with a moratorium provision

contained in the Bombay Relief Undertakings (Special Provisions) Act,

1958 . In the context of a prosecution under paragraph 76(a) of the

Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme, 1952 this Court held: The remedy in that behalf cannot be suspended nor can a
proceeding already commenced against them in their
individual capacity be stayed. Indeed, it would be strange if
any such thing was within the contemplation of law. Normally,
the occasion for declaring an industry as a relief undertaking
would arise out of causes connected with defaults on the part
of its directors and other officers. To declare a moratorium on
legal actions against persons whose activities have
necessitated the issuance of a notification in the interest of
unemployment relief is to give to such persons the benefit of
their own wrong. Section 4(1)(a)(iv) therefore advisedly limits
the power of the State Government to direct suspension of
remedies and stay of proceedings involving the obligations
and liabilities in relation to a relief undertaking and which were
incurred before the undertaking was declared a relief
undertaking. 8. Para 38(1) of the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme,
1952 imposes an obligation on “The employer” to pay the
provident fund contribution to the Fund within 15 days of the
close of every month. The Scheme does not define 108 “Employee” but para 2(m) says that words and expressions
 which are not defined by the Scheme shall have the meaning
 assigned to them in the Employees' Provident Funds Act . Section 2(e)(ii) of that Act defines an “Employer”, to the extent
 material, as the person who, or the authority which, has the
 ultimate control over the affairs of an establishment and where
 the said affairs are entrusted to a manager, managing director
 or managing agent, such manager, managing director or
 managing agent. Thus the responsibility to pay the
 contributions to the Fund was of the appellants and if they
 have defaulted in paying the amount, they are liable to be
 prosecuted under para 76(a) of the Scheme which says that if
 any person fails to pay any contribution which he is liable to
 pay under the Scheme, he shall be punishable with six
 months' imprisonment or with fine which may extend to one
 thousand rupees or with both. Such a personal liability does
 not fall within the scope of Section 4(1)(a)(iv) of the Act.”

Significantly, this Court did not hold that the moratorium provision would

not extend to criminal liability. On the contrary, on the assumption that it

would so extend, a distinction was made between personal liability of the

Directors of the undertaking and the undertaking itself, stating that as the

“employer” under the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme would only

refer to those individuals managing the relief undertaking and not the

relief undertaking itself, the personal liability of such persons would not

fall within the scope of the moratorium provision. This judgment also,

therefore, does not, in any manner, support Shri Mehta. 76. Lastly, Shri Mehta relied upon Deputy Director, Directorate of

Enforcement Delhi v. Axis Bank , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 7854 : (2019)

259 DLT 500, and in particular, on paragraphs 127, 128, and 146 to 148 109 for the proposition that an offence under the Prevention of Money-

Laundering Act could not be covered under Section 14(1)(a) . The Delhi

High Court’s reasoning is contained in paragraphs 139 and 141, which

are set out hereinbelow: We say so on the basis of the ratio laid down in C.V.
Parekh [(1970) 3 SCC 491 : 1971 SCC (Cri) 97] which is a
three-Judge Bench decision. Thus, the view expressed in
Sheoratan Agarwal [(1984) 4 SCC 352 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 620]
does not correctly lay down the law and, accordingly, is
hereby overruled. The decision in Anil Hada [(2000) 1 SCC 1 : CONCLUSION 113 78. In conclusion, disagreeing with the Bombay High Court and the

Calcutta High Court judgments in Tayal Cotton Pvt. Ltd. v. State of

Maharashtra , 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 2069 : (2019) 1 Mah LJ 312 and

M/s MBL Infrastructure Ltd. v. Manik Chand Somani, CRR 3456/2018

(Calcutta High Court; decided on 16.04.2019), respectively, we hold that a Section 138 / 141 proceeding against a corporate debtor is covered by Section 14(1)(a) of the IBC. 79. Resultantly, the civil appeal is allowed and the judgment under

appeal is set aside. However, the Section 138 / 141 proceedings in this

case will continue both against the company as well as the appellants for

the reason given by us in paragraph 77 above as well as the fact that the

insolvency resolution process does not involve a new management taking

over. We may also note that the moratorium period has come to an end in

this case. Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) Diary No.32585 of 2019 1. Delay condoned. Leave granted. 2. Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

the appellant, has made various submissions before us. Suffice it to state

that his first submission is that as a moratorium is imposed against the 114 corporate debtor w.e.f. 10.07.2017, the Section 138 complaint that was

preferred on 19.09.2017 must be quashed. 3. On the facts of this case, three cheques – for INR 25,00,000/- dated

31.05.2017, for INR 25,00,000/- dated 30.06.2017, and for INR

23,51,408/- dated 31.07.2017 were issued by the appellant in favour of

the respondent. Before the cheques could be presented for payment, on

10.07.2017, the Adjudicating Authority admitted a petition by an

operational creditor under Section 9 of the IBC and imposed a moratorium

under Section 14 . The three cheques were presented for payment, but

were returned citing “insufficient funds” as the reason on 04.08.2017. The

legal notice to initiate proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act was issued by the respondent on 12.08.2017. As no

payment was forthcoming within the time specified, the respondent

preferred a complaint against the corporate debtor alone on 19.09.2017. 4. The respondent did not dispute the aforesaid dates, only reiterating

that the High Court was right in dismissing a quash petition filed by the

appellant under Section 482 of the CrPC. 5. Since the complaint that has been filed in the present case is

against the corporate debtor alone, without joining any of the persons in 115 charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the corporate

debtor, the complaint needs to be quashed, given our judgment in Civil

Appeal No.10355 of 2018. The judgment under appeal, dated 02.04.2019,

is therefore set aside and the appeal is allowed.

Criminal Appeals arising out of SLP ( Criminal) Nos.10587/2019,
10857/2019, 10550/2019, 10858/2019, 10860/2019, 10861/2019,
10446/2019. 1. Leave granted. 2. On the facts of these cases, all the complaints filed by different

creditors of the same appellant under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act were admittedly filed long before the

Adjudicating Authority admitted a petition under Section 7 of the IBC and

imposed moratorium on 19.03.2019. 3. Given our judgment in Civil Appeal No.10355 of 2018, the said

moratorium order would not cover the appellant in these cases, who is not

a corporate debtor, but a Director thereof. Thus, the impugned order

issuing a proclamation under Section 82 CrPC cannot be faulted with on

this ground. The appeals are therefore dismissed.

Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) Nos.2246-2247 of 2020 1. Leave granted. 116 2. In this case, the two complaints dated 12.03. 2018 and 14.03.2018

under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments

Act were filed by the respondent against the corporate debtor along with

persons in charge of and responsible for the conduct of business of the

corporate debtor. On 14.02.2020, the Adjudicating Authority admitted a

petition under Section 9 of the IBC against the corporate debtor and

imposed a moratorium. The impugned interim order dated 20.02.2020 is

for the issuance of non-bailable warrants against two of the accused

individuals. 3. Given our judgment in Civil Appeal No.10355 of 2018, the

moratorium provision not extending to persons other than the corporate

debtor, this appeal also stands dismissed. Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) No.2496 of 2020 1. Leave granted. 2. In the present case, a complaint under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act was filed by Respondent

No.1 against the corporate debtor together with its Managing Director and

Director on 15.05.2018. It is only thereafter that a petition under Section 9 of the IBC, filed by Respondent No.1, was admitted by the Adjudicating

Authority and a moratorium was imposed on 30.10.2018. The impugned

judgment dated 16.10.2019 held that a petition under Section 482 , CrPC 117 to quash the said proceeding would be rejected as Section 14 of the IBC

did not apply to Section 138 proceedings. 3. The impugned judgment is set aside in view of our judgment in Civil

Appeal No.10355 of 2018, and the complaint is directed to be continued

against the Managing Director and Director, respectively.

Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) No.3500 of 2020 1. Leave granted. 2. The complaint in the present case was filed by the respondent on

28.07.2016. An application under Section 7 , IBC was admitted by the

Adjudicating Authority only on 20.02.2018 and moratorium imposed on

the same date. The impugned judgment rejected a petition under Section

482 of the CrPC on the ground that Section 138 proceedings are not

covered by Section 14 of the IBC. 3. The impugned judgment is set aside in view of our judgment in Civil

Appeal No.10355 of 2018, and the complaint is directed to be continued

against the appellant. Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) No.5638-5651/2020,
5653-5668/2020

Leave granted. 118 In these appeals, the appellants have approached us directly from the

learned Magistrate’s impugned orders. The learned Magistrate has held

that Section 14 of the IBC would not cover proceedings under Section

138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. As a result, warrants of attachment

have been issued under Section 431 read with Section 421 CrPC against

various accused persons, including the corporate debtor and persons who

are since deceased. While setting aside the impugned judgments, given

our judgment in Civil Appeal No.10355 of 2018, we remand these cases

to the Magistrate to apply the law laid down by us in Civil Appeal

No.10355 of 2018, and thereafter decide all other points that may arise in

these cases in accordance with law. Writ Petition (Criminal) Nos.330/2020, 339/2020, Writ Petition (Civil)
No.982/2020, Writ Petition (Criminal) Nos.297/2020, 342/2020, Writ
Petition (Civil) No.1417/2020, 1439/2020, 18/2021, Writ Petition
(Criminal) No.9/2021, 26/2021. 1. All these writ petitions have been filed under Article 32 of the

Constitution of India by erstwhile Directors/persons in charge of and

responsible for the conduct of the business of the corporate debtor. They

are all premised upon the fact that Section 138 proceedings are covered

by Section 14 of the IBC and hence, cannot continue against the

corporate debtor and consequently, against the petitioners. 119 2. Given our judgment in Civil Appeal No.10355 of 2018, all these writ

petitions have to be dismissed in view of the fact that such proceedings

can continue against erstwhile Directors/persons in charge of and

responsible for the conduct of the business of the corporate debtor. ………………....................... J. (ROHINTON FALI NARIMAN)

 ………………....................... J. (NAVIN SINHA)

 ………………...................... J. (K.M. JOSEPH)
New Delhi; March 01, 2021. 120