% 25.09.2024 1. The writ petitioner is aggrieved by an order dated 25 July 2023
 pursuant to which its Goods and Service Tax1 Registration has been
 cancelled with retrospective effect from 28 September 2017. 2. Undisputedly the Show Cause Notice2 in this respect was
 issued on 10 July 2023. That SCN stood framed in the following
 terms:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:28
 You are hereby directed to furnish a reply to the notice within
 seven working days from the date of service of this notice. You are hereby directed to appear before the undersigned on I
 7/07/2023 at 04:30 PM

 If you fail to furnish a reply within the stipulated date or fail to
 appear for personal hearing on the appointed date and time, the
 case will be decided ex parte on the basis of available records and
 on merits . Please note that your registration stands suspended with effect from
 10/07/2023" 3. The registration ultimately came to be cancelled with
 retrospective effect from 28 September 2017 in terms of an order
 dated 25 July 2023 and which is extracted hereinbelow:- " Order for Cancellation of Registration

 This has reference to show cause notice issued dated 10/07/2023.
 The effective date of cancellation of your registration is
 28/09/ 2017. 3. It may be noted that a registered person furnishing return under
 sub-section (1) of section 39 of the CGST Act, 2017 is required to
 furnish a final return in FORM GSTR-10 within three months of
 the date of this order. 4.You are required to furnish all your pending returns. 5.It may be noted that the cancellation of registration shall not
 affect the liability to pay tax and other dues under this Act or to
 discharge any obligation under this Act or the rules made
 thereunder for any period prior to the date of cancellation whether
 or not such tax and other dues are determined before or after the
 date of cancellation." 4. The power to cancel a registration under the Central Goods
 and Services Tax Act, 20173 with retroactive effect stands enshrined
 in Section 29 which reads thus:- section (3) of Section 25 has not commenced business within six
 months from the date of registration; or (e) registration has been obtained by means of fraud, wilful
 misstatement or suppression of facts: finished or finished goods held in stock or capital goods or plant
 and machinery on the day immediately preceding the date of such
 cancellation or the output tax payable on such goods, whichever is
 higher, calculated in such manner as may be prescribed: 5. As is manifest from a reading of Section 29 , clauses (a) to ( e)
 of Section 29(2) constitute independent limbs on the basis of which a
 registration may warrant cancellation. While the provision does enable
 the respondents to cancel that registration with retrospective effect, the
 mere existence or conferral of that power would not justify a
 revocation of registration. The order under Section 29(2) must itself
 reflect the reasons which may have weighed upon the respondents to
 cancel registration with retrospective effect. Given the deleterious
 consequences which would ensue and accompany a retroactive W.P.(C) 8061/2024 Page 4 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29
 cancellation makes it all the more vital that the order be reasoned and
 demonstrative of due application of mind. It is also necessary to
 observe that the mere existence of such a power would not in itself be
 sufficient to sustain its invocation. What we seek to emphasise is that
 the power to cancel retrospectively can neither be robotic nor
 routinely applied unless circumstances so warrant. When tested on the
 aforesaid precepts it becomes ex facie evident that the impugned order
 of cancellation cannot be sustained. 6. We note that while dealing with the right of the respondents to
 cancel GST registration with retrospective effect and the manner in
 which such power should be exercised in accordance with the
 statutory scheme was an issue which was noticed in Ramesh
 Chander vs Assistant Commissioner of Goods and Services Tax,
 Dwarka Division, CGST Delhi & Anr.4 The Court in Ramesh
 Chander taking note of the contours of Section 29 had held:- 07.04.2022. 2. Vide impugned Show Cause Notice dated 07.04.2022, petitioner
 was called upon to show cause as to why the registration be not
 cancelled for the following reasons:- 3. Petitioner was in the business of services involving repair,
 alterations, additions, replacements, renovation, maintenance or
 remodelling of the building covered above, General construction
 services of harbours, waterways, dams, water mains and lines,
 irrigation and other waterworks, General construction services of 4 2024 SCC OnLine Del 410 W.P.(C) 8061/2024 Page 5 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29
 long-distance underground/ overland/ submarine pipelines,
 communication and electric power lines (cables); pumping stations
 and related works; transformer stations and related works, General
 construction services of local water & sewage pipelines, electricity
 and communication cables & related works, Installation, assembly
 and erection services of other prefabricated structures and
 constructions and possessed a GST registration. 4. A show cause notice was issued to the petitioner on 07.04.2022
 Though the notice does not specify any cogent reason, there is an
 observation in the notice stating failure to furnish returns for a
 continuous period of six months. The show cause notice requires
 the petitioner to appear before the undersigned i.e. authority issuing
 the notice. Notice does not give the name of the officer or place or
 time where the petitioner has to appear. 5. Further the order dated 13.07.2022 passed on the show cause
 notice does not give any reasons for cancellation of the registration.
 It, however, states that the registration is liable to be cancelled for
 the following reason "whereas no reply to notice to show cause has
 been submitted''. However, the said order in itself is contradictory,
 the order states "reference to your reply dated 16.04.2022 in
 response to the notice to show cause dated 07. 04.2022" and the
 reason stated for cancellation is "whereas no reply to notice to
 show cause has been submitted''. The order further states that
 effective date of cancellation of registration is 01.07.2017 i.e.
 retrospective date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the
 reasons for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view, order
 dated 13.07.2022 does not qualify as an order of cancellation of
 registration. 7. As per the petitioner, the said order reflected that the GST of the
 Petitioner stands cancelled from 01.07.2017 even though returns
 thereafter have been filed by the Petitioner. 8. We notice that the show cause notice as well as the impugned
 order of cancellation, are themselves vitiated on account of lack of
 reason and clarity. The appeal has been dismissed solely on the
 ground of limitation. Since the very foundation of entire
 proceedings i.e. show cause notice and the order of cancellation are
 vitiated, we are of the view that no purpose would be served in
 relegating the petitioner to the stage of an appeal. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Central Goods and Services Tax
 Act, 2017, the proper officer may cancel the GST registration of a
 person from such date including any retrospective date, as he may W.P.(C) 8061/2024 Page 6 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29
 deem fit if the circumstances set out in the said sub-section are
 satisfied. The registration cannot be cancelled with retrospective
 effect mechanically. It can be cancelled only if the proper officer
 deems it fit to do so. Such satisfaction cannot be subjective but
 must be based on some objective criteria. Merely, because a
 taxpayer has not filed the returns for some period does not mean
 that the taxpayer's registration is required to be cancelled with
 retrospective date also covering the period when the returns were
 filed and the taxpayer was compliant. 10. It is important to note that, according to the respondent, one of
 the consequences for cancelling a tax payer's registration with
 retrospective effect is that the taxpayer's customers are denied the
 input tax credit availed in respect of the supplies made by the tax
 payer during such period. Although, we do not consider it apposite
 to examine this aspect but assuming that the respondent's
 contention in this regard is correct, it would follow that the proper
 officer is also required to consider this aspect while passing any
 order for cancellation of GST registration with retrospective effect.
 Thus, a taxpayer's registration can be cancelled with retrospective
 effect only where such consequences are intended and are
 warranted. 11. The show cause notice does not even state that the registration
 is liable to be cancelled from a retrospective date. 12. The petition is allowed. The impugned show cause notice dated
 07.04.2022, order of cancellation dated 13.07.2022 and the order in
 appeal dated 29.12.2023 are accordingly set aside. GST registration
 of the petitioner is restored, subject to petitioner filing requisite
 returns upto date. 13. It is clarified that since the petitioner could not have filed the
 return after the GST registration was suspended, there shall be no
 liability to pay any penalty or fine for delayed filing. However, this
 would only apply in case petitioner files an affidavit of undertaking
 that petitioner has not carried out any business or raised invoices or
 taken any Input Tax Credit after the registration was suspended
 with effect from 07.04.2022 i.e., the date of suspension of the
 registration. 14. Respondent would be at liberty to initiate appropriate
 proceedings in accordance with law after giving a proper show
 cause notice containing complete details, if so advised. Further this
 order would not preclude the respondent from initiating any steps
 in accordance with law, if it is found that the petitioner had
 violated any provisions of the Act. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29 15. Petition is disposed of in the above terms." 7. We further take note of the judgment in Delhi Polymers vs
 Commissioner, Trade and Taxes & Anr.5 wherein the following
 was observed:- 3. Petitioner was engaged in the business of Sanitary ware Products
 & Accessories i.e., Baths, Shower, Washbasins, Seats and Cover
 etc. and possessed GST registration. 4. Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 was issued to the
 Petitioner seeking to cancel its registration. However, the Show
 Cause Notice also does not put the petitioner to notice that the
 registration is liable to be cancelled retrospectively. Accordingly,
 the petitioner had no opportunity to even object to the retrospective
 cancellation of the registration. 5. Further, the impugned order dated 15.12.2021 passed on the
 Show Cause Notice dated 04.09.2021 does not give any reasons for
 cancellation. It, however, states that the registration is liable to be
 cancelled for the following reason "whereas no reply to the show
 cause notice has been submitted". However, the said order in itself
 is contradictory. The order states "reference to your reply dated
 15.12.2021 in response to the notice to show cause dated
 04.09.2021" and the reason stated for the cancellation is "whereas
 no reply to notice show cause has been submitted". The order
 further states that effective date of cancellation of registration is
 01.07.2017 i.e., a retrospective date. 6. Neither the show cause notice, nor the order spell out the reasons
 for retrospective cancellation. In fact, in our view, order dated 5 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1134 W.P.(C) 8061/2024 Page 8 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29
 15.12.2021 does not qualify as an order of cancellation of
 registration. On one hand, it states that the registration is liable to
 be cancelled and on the other, in the column at the bottom there are
 no dues stated to be due against the petitioner and the table shows
 nil demand. 7. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the said order
 reflected that the GST registration of petitioner stands cancelled
 from 01.07.2017 even though returns thereafter have been filed by
 the Petitioner. 8. He further submits that the petitioner is no longer interested in
 continuing the business and the business has been discontinued. 9. In terms of Section 29(2) of the Act, the proper officer may
 cancel the GST registration of a person from such date including
 any retrospective date, as he may deem fit if the circumstances set
 out in the said sub-section are satisfied. Registration cannot be
 cancelled with retrospective effect mechanically. It can be
 cancelled only if the proper officer deems it fit to do so. Such
 satisfaction cannot be subjective but must be based on some
 objective criteria. Merely, because a taxpayer has not filed the
 returns for some period does not mean that the taxpayer's
 registration is required to be cancelled with retrospective date also
 covering the period when the returns were filed and the taxpayer
 was compliant. 10. It is important to note that, according to the respondent, one of
 the consequences for cancelling a tax payer's registration with
 retrospective effect is that the taxpayer's customers are denied the
 input tax credit availed in respect of the supplies made by the tax
 payer during such period. Although, we do not consider it apposite
 to examine this aspect but assuming that the respondent's
 contention in required to consider this aspect while passing any
 order for cancellation of GST registration with retrospective effect.
 Thus, a taxpayer's registration can be cancelled with retrospective
 effect only where such consequences are intended and are
 warranted. 11. It may be further noted that both the Petitioners and the
 department want cancellation of the GST registration of the
 Petitioner, though for a different reason. 12. In view of the fact that Petitioner does not seek to carry on
 business or continue the registration, the impugned order dated
 15.12.2021 is modified to the limited extent that registration shall
 now be treated as cancelled with effect from 04.09.2021 i.e., the
 date when the Show Cause Notice was issued. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29 13. It is clarified that Respondents are also not precluded from
 taking any steps for recovery of any tax, penalty or interest that
 may be due in respect of the subject firm in accordance with law. 14. Petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms." 8. In view of the aforesaid and in light of an abject failure on the
 part of the authority to assign even rudimentary reasons for a
 retroactive cancellation, we find ourselves unable to sustain the order
 impugned. 9. The writ petition is accordingly allowed. The impugned order
 dated 25 July 2023 is hereby quashed. This order, however, shall be
 without prejudice to the right of the respondents to draw proceedings
 afresh and in accordance with law. YASHWANT VARMA, J. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. SEPTEMBER 25, 2024/sk W.P.(C) 8061/2024 Page 10 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/09/2024 at 00:19:29