1) The petitioners have invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under

Section 482 of the Cr. P. C thereby challenging the proceedings

initiated by Chief Judicial Magistrate, Srinagar, in a challan arising out

of FIR No.RC1232019A0003 for offences under Section 120-B read

with 420 of RPC and Sections 4-H, 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of

the J&K Prevention of Corruption Act (hereinafter referred to as the

J&K PC Act). Challenge has also been thrown to order dated

27.11.2020 and order dated 25.09.2021 passed by Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Srinagar, in the challan emanating out of the aforesaid FIR. Page 2 of 16 2) The facts leading to the filing of the instant petition are that the

aforesaid FIR came to be registered by CBI/Anticorruption Bureau

(ACB), Srinagar, on the basis of source information alleging therein

that the petitioners, who happen to be the officers/officials of Srinagar

Central Sub Division, Central Public Works Department, Srinagar, in

connivance with accused Ghulam Mohi-ud-din Bhat of M/S Ghulam

Mohi-ud-din Bhat & Sons (Govt. Contractor) and other unknown

officials/private persons were involved in alleged irregularities i.e. use

of sub-standard material resulting in poor workmanship in the

construction of helibase and chain link fencing, adjoining Airbase with

provision of cabin/helicopter Hangar at BSF Campus, Humhama,

Srinagar, during the year 2014-2015. It was further alleged that the

aforesaid accused/public servants in connivance with each other and

accused contractor managed to submit fake invoices of cement and

TMT steel and also used sub-standard material in the execution of

aforesaid contract. It was alleged that no technical staff on behalf of the

contractor was deployed and no batch mix plant was utilized in the

work. It was further alleged that the payments on extra cement to the

tune of Rs.28.00 lacs, in addition to the basic quantity of cement has

been released by the accused public servants to the contractor thereby

providing undue benefit to the said contractor and causing wrongful

loss to the Government exchequer. 3) Investigation of the case was set into motion and after

investigation, the allegations regarding submission of fake invoices of Page 3 of 16 steel TMT bars and cement were established. It was also established

that sub-standard material was used during the execution of the contract

work, batch mix plant was not used in execution of the concrete work

and that no technical staff was deployed by the contractor at the site.

After completion of investigation, offences under Section 4-H, 5(1)(d)

r/w 5(2) of J&K PC Act and Section 120-B r/w Section 420 RPC were

found established against the petitioner and the co-accused. The

respondent approached the competent authority for sanction of

prosecution in terms of Section 6 of the J&K PC Act against the

petitioner who are public servants but the same was denied by the

competent authority of CPWD. After denial of sanction for prosecution,

the respondent filed the challan against the petitioners and the co-

accused to the extent of commission offences under Section 120-B, 420

RPC only and dropped the offence under J&K PC Act. 4) After the charge sheet was laid before the Court of learned Chief

Judicial Magistrate, Srinagar, an order came to be passed by the said

Court on 27.11.2020, whereby the learned Magistrate accepted the

contention of Assistant Public Prosecutor, appearing on behalf of the

respondent herein that the acts alleged to have been committed by the

petitioners fall beyond the scope of their official duty and, as such, no

previous sanction under Section 197 of Cr. P. C is required in the case.

Accordingly, the learned Magistrate took cognizance of the offences

and issued process against the accused including the petitioners herein.

This order came to be challenged by petitioner No.1 herein by way of a Page 4 of 16 petition under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C (CRM (M) No.135/2021)

before this Court. The aforesaid petition came to be disposed of by this

Court in terms of order dated 22.04.2021, leaving it open to the

petitioner therein to approach the trial court by way of an application

seeking his discharge on the pleas raised in the said petition.

Accordingly, the petitioners filed an application for their discharge

before the learned trial Magistrate. However, the learned Magistrate,

after hearing the parties, passed a detailed order dated 25.09.2021,

whereby application of the petitioners was dismissed and charge for

offences under Section 120-B read with 420 RPC was framed against

the petitioners and the co-accused. Both these orders i.e. order dated

27.11.2020 and order dated 25.09.2021 have been impugned by the

petitioners by way of instant petition. 5) I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

grounds of petition as well as the response filed by the respondent. 6) Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners has raised

two contentions, one that once sanction for prosecution in terms of

Section 6 of the J&K PC Act was declined by the competent authority,

it was not open to the respondent to file challan against the petitioners

by dropping the offences under the provisions of the J&K PC Act and

confining the challan only to offences under RPC. According to learned

senior counsel, the offences under the J&K PC Act and the RPC are

interconnected and if sanction for prosecution was declined by the

competent authority, after considering the material collected by the Page 5 of 16 investigating agency, the petitioners could not have been subjected to

prosecution for the offences under RPC by circumventing the order of

the competent authority. In the alternative, the learned senior counsel

has argued that even if it is assumed that the respondent was justified in

dropping the offences under the provisions of the J&K PC Act and

launching prosecution against the petitioners only in respect of the

offences under RPC, still then, because the acts alleged to have been

committed by the petitioners have been done by them in exercise of

their official functions, therefore, without there being previous sanction

for prosecution of the petitioners under Section 197 of the Cr. P. C, the

learned trial Magistrate was not justified in taking cognizance of the

offences and framing charge against the petitioners. 7) Per contra, learned ASGI, appearing for the respondent, has

vehemently argued that it was open to the respondent to confine the

challan against the petitioners to the offences under Section 120-B read

with Section 420 RPC only, which are independent offences. He has

further contended that the previous sanction of the Government for

launching prosecution for offences under Section 120-B and 420 RPC

is not required in this case because the acts alleged to have been

committed by the petitioners do not come within the purview of their

official acts/functions. Learned ASGI has submitted that fabrication of

records and entering into criminal conspiracy can never be termed as

acts done in discharge of official functions. 8) Before dealing with the rival contentions of the learned counsel

for the parties, it would be apt to notice certain facts which have

emerged from the record. The FIR, which is subject matter of the

instant case, was registered in respect of offences under the J&K PC

Act as well as the offences under Ranbir Panel Code. After

investigation of the case, offences under both the aforesaid provisions

were established against the accused including petitioners herein on the

basis of same set of facts. The record further reveals that the respondent

approached the competent authority for grant of sanction for

prosecution against the petitioners in terms of Section 6 of the J&K PC

Act because the petitioners happen to be the public servants. The matter

was considered by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and vide

office memorandum dated 21st September, 2020, it was conveyed to the

competent authority i.e. CPWD, that after examining the record of the

case, sanction for prosecution against petitioners Laxman Singh

Adhikari, Sanjay Kumar Srivastava, Prabhat Singh and Sharawan

Kumar has been denied. The Commission further advised initiation of

departmental action against petitioners Sanjay Kumar Srivastava and

Sharawan Kumar. 9) Vide communication dated 29th October, 2020, CPWD informed

the respondent that disciplinary authority of the CPWD has decided for

denial of sanction for prosecution against the petitioners and that it has

decided to initiate necessary departmental action against petitioners

Sanjay Kumar Srivastava and Sharawan Kumar. Upon receipt of this Page 7 of 16 communication, the respondent decided to launch prosecution against

the petitioners in respect of the offences under Section 120-B read with

Section 420 RPC and omitted offences under the J&K PC Act from the

challan, though the facts and the evidence have remained the same. 10) Central Vigilance Commission is a statutory authority created

under Central Vigilance Act, 2003 . Section 8 of the said Act deals with

functions and powers of the Vigilance Commission. Sub-Section (1)(a)

of the said provision is relevant to the context and the same is

reproduced as under: The CBI cannot conveniently ignore the advice of the Central

Vigilance Commission as accepted by the concerned department and

prosecute the public servants by mischievously dropping the offences

under the provisions of the PC Act , thereby circumventing the

protection granted to a public servant under the said legislation. Such Page 9 of 16 an approach would render the protection granted to a public servant

against frivolous prosecutions in terms of Section 6 of the J&K PC Act,

which is in pari materia with Section 19 of the PC Act of 1988,

nugatory and redundant, which can never be the intention of the

legislature. 13) A Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay in the case of

Atchut Mucund Alornekar and others vs. Central Bureau of

Investigation/Anti Corruption Bureau, Goa, 2012 SCC Online Bom

1256, has, in somewhat similar circumstances where the CBI, after its

proposal for grant of sanction of prosecution against public servants

was declined by the competent authority on the advice of the Central

Vigilance Commission, filed a charge sheet against the accused public

servants for offences under Section 120-B read with Section 420 of

IPC, observed as under: 14) In Ashoo Surendranath Tewari vs. Deputy Superintendent of

police and another, 2014 SCC Online Bom 5042, a Division Bench of

the Bombay High Court was dealing with a case where the competent

authority, on the basis of advice of Central Vigilance Commission, had

declined sanction for prosecution against accused public servants for

offences under Section 120-B of IPC read with Sections 420 , 406 , 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and the Special Court discharged

the accused public servants for offences under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 but proceeded

to frame charges against them for offences under Section 120-B of IPC Page 11 of 16 read with Sections 420 , 406 , 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC. The High Court

upheld the aforesaid order of the Special Court. However, in an appeal

filed against the aforesaid order of the Bombay High Court, the

Supreme Court in the case of Ashoo Surendranath Tewari vs. Deputy

Superintendent of Police, EOW, CBI another, (2020) 9 SCC 636, set

aside the order of the High Court and after applying the ratio laid down

by it in the case of Radheshyam Kejriwal vs. State of West Bengal ,

(2011) 3 SCC 581, observed that when the matter has been examined

by the Central Vigilance Commission and its opinion has been accepted

by the competent authority, chances of conviction in a criminal case

involving the same facts appear to be bleak. Accordingly, the Supreme

Court set aside the order of the High Court as well as that of the Special

Court and discharged the petitioner/accused. 15) From the forgoing enunciation of law on the subject, it is clear

that once a particular set of facts is examined by Central Vigilance

Commission whereafter it reaches the conclusion that on the basis of

material put up before it, no criminal offence is made out against the

accused public servant and the said opinion is accepted by the

competent authority, it is not open to the investigating agency to file a

challan on the same set of facts against the accused public servant by

dropping the offences under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption

Act and confining the challan only to the offences under other penal

provisions. 16) The Central Vigilance Commission, as per the provisions

contained in Clauses 6.7.2, 6.7.3 and 6.7.4 of the Vigilance Manual,

2017, is required to apply its mind to the material collected by the

investigating agency that has been produced before it, whereafter it has

to come to a conclusion as to whether on the basis of the said material a

case for grant of sanction for prosecution against the public servant is

made out. Clause 6.7.4 of the Manual is relevant in this context and the

same reads as under: (SANJAY DHAR)
 JUDGE
Srinagar,
08.07.2022
"Bhat Altaf, PS"