This appeal, filed by assessee, being ITA No. 1587/Mum/2017, is
 directed against appellate order dated 22.12.2016 passed by learned
 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-30, Mumbai (hereinafter called
 "the CIT(A)"), for assessment year 2009-10, the appellate proceedings
 had arisen before learned CIT(A) from assessment order dated
 10.03.2015 passed by learned Assessing Officer (hereinafter called
 "the AO") u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act") for AY 2009-10. I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017 2. The grounds of appeal raised by the assessee in the memo of
appeal filed with the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai
(hereinafter called "the tribunal") read as under:- 3. The brief facts of the case are that the assesse is reseller in
ferrous and non-ferrous metals. The original return of income was
filed by the assessee on 17-09-2009 declaring income of Rs.
5,47,160/- which return of income was processed by Revenue u/s
143(1) of the 1961 Act accepting the returned income. The information
was received by AO from DGIT(Inv) Wing, Mumbai that there is a scam
unearthed by the Maharashtra Sales Tax Department regarding
alleged issue of hawala bills or accommodation entries by several
parties from Mumbai who have issued bogus bills without supplying
any material. It was revealed in the scam so unearthed that these
parties who have issued alleged bogus bills are non existent parties 2 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

and they have not deposited VAT/Sales tax with Maharashtra VAT
Authorities while beneficiaries of these bogus bills have taken
VAT/Sales tax credits in their VAT returns causing loss to exchequer
The name of the assessee also appeared in the list prepared by the
Maharashtra Sale Tax Department as one of the beneficiary of these
alleged bogus purchases to the tune of Rs. 3,83,34,603/- from
following bogus parties:- The AO also got information from Maharashtra VAT authorities that
these alleged bogus dealers are either not traceable or in case these
parties are found, it was found by Maharashtra VAT department that 3 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

these parties were not doing any business. This material incriminating
information so received by the AO led to formation of a belief that
income of the assessee has escaped assessment which led to the
reopening of the assessment u/s. 147 of the Act wherein notice u/s.
148 was issued by the AO to the assessee on 25.02.2014 which was
stated by the AO in its assessment order to have been duly served on
the assessee . It is undisputed that originally the return of income was
processed u/s 143(1) and no assessment u/s 143(3) was framed by
Revenue . It is also undisputed that notice u/s 148 was issued within
4 years from the end of the assessment year. The assessee was called
upon by the AO to explain the same . The assessee could not link the
purchases with the corresponding sales . The assessee could not
produce books of accounts before the AO . The assessee also could not
produce these parties before the AO. The assessee vide order sheet
entry dated 05.03.2015 requested the AO during the course of re-
assessment proceedings to make reasonable additions with respect to
the alleged bogus purchases. The AO , thus , quantified the profit
element in these alleged bogus purchases by bringing 12.5% of the
alleged bogus purchases of Rs. 3,83,34,602/- as profit element
embedded in these alleged bogus purchases to be a reasonable
etimation by adding the same to business income of the assessee
which led to the additions to the tune of Rs. 47,91,826/- to the
returned income in the hands of the assessee, vide assessment order
dated 10-03-2015 passed u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the 1961 Act. 4. Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 10-03-2015 passed by
the AO u/s 143(3) r.w.s. 147 of the 1961 Act, the assessee filed first
appeal before Ld. CIT(A) and made its submissions. The Ld. CIT(A)
dismissed the appeal of the assessee and confirmed the additions as
were made by the AO both as to the challenge to reopening of the
concluded assessment u/s 147 of the 1961 Act on legal grounds as
well additions were challenged on merits vide appellate orders dated
22-12-2016 passed by learned CIT(A) , by holding as under:- "5.3 I have carefully considered the rival contentions on the issue on
hand. On perusal of the assessment order, it is noticed that, in the
appellant's case, Id. AO has made independent verifications, apart from
the information received from the Sales Tax Department. Notice was
issued u/s 142(1) of the Act, calling for several details with regard to the
purchases and sales supported by bills and vouchers reflecting the
same in the stock register of its entry and exit with detailed description
of the items, for which the appellant failed to furnish the full details. The
appellant failed to furnish ail the details and requested the AO to
complete the assessment after making a reasonable addition. In the
present case, there is overwhelming evidence in the form of
statement of supplier given before the Sales tax authorities that it
was engaged only in issuing hawala bills and no goods were ever
supplied by them. 5.4 After weighing the evidence pros and cons; I find that the
appellant has not reconciled the purchases with the items sold and
failed to reconcile 1:1 of the items purchased and sold, despite giving
an opportunity to do so, by the AO during the assessment proceedings.
Onus is always on the appellant to prove as to how the material
purchased was firstly obtained. I record a finding of fact here that the
appellant failed to furnish crucial evidences like proof of delivery of
purchases, transport challans and goods inward register at godown
etc., before the Ld. AO. The AR was also specifically asked to furnish
the evidences/ parties before the AO even at the present proceedings
and in response, AR expressed his 'inability to do so. Thus, it can be
safety presumed that either they are non-existent or even if they did
exist, they were not backed by sufficient evidence to undergo the test of
scrutiny. 5.5 The supplier was in fact the appellant's witness and the Ld. AO
was not required to force their attendance. It was for the appellant to
produce them as per Civil Procedure Code, which applies on all fours
to the income-tax proceedings. It is trite that once a transaction is
shown to be of the nature of income, the onus shifts to the assessee to
show that the same is not taxable. It can thus be safely assumed that
the appellant has grossly failed in its duty to mitigate the burden cast
upon, it in so far as proving the genuineness of the transaction from the
said party is concerned. 5.6 AR in the written submissions also stated that the AO not
obtained the details of KYC from the bank, not summoned the parties
etc., to verify the genuineness of the purchases. In this regard it is
pertinent to mention that while dealing with the concept of burden of
proof, onus of proving is always on the person who makes the .claim
and not on the Revenue. While dealing with the issue of deciding the
burden of proof, Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of CIT Vs.
Durgaprasad More 82 TTR 540 and Sumati Dayal Vs. CIT 214 ITR 801
has held that the apparent must be considered real until it is shown that
there are reasons to believe that the apparent is not real and that
Taxing Authorities are entitled to look into surrounding 5 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

circumstances to find out the reality and the matter has to be
considered by applying the test of human probabilities. The Hon'ble
court also held that, it is no doubt, true that in all cases in which a
receipt is sought to be taxed as income, the burden lies on the
department to prove that it is within the taxing provision and if a
receipt is in the nature of income, the burden to prove that It is not
taxable because it falls within exemption provided by the Act , lies
upon the assessee. In the case of Durgaprasad More (Supra), the
Hon'ble Court went on to add that a party who relies on a recital in a
Deed has to establish the truth of this recital, otherwise it will be very
easy to make self serving statements in documents either executed
or taken by a party who relied on those recitals. If all that an
assessee who wants to evade tax has to have some recitals made in
a document either executed by him or executed in his favour then
the door will be left wide open to evade tax. The Hon'ble Court
further held that the Taxing Authorities were not required to put on
blinkers while looking at the documents produced before them. They
were entitled to look in to the surrounding circumstances to find out
the reality of the recitals made in those documents. 5.7 The onus to prove that apparent, Is not the real one, is on the
party who claims it to be so, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in the case of CIT v. Daulat Ram Rawatmull [1973] 87 ITR 349 and
CIT v. Durga Prasad More (supra). It is also a settled legal
proposition that if no evidence is given by the party on whom the
burden is cast, the issue must be found against him. Therefore; onus
is always on a person who asserts a proposition or fact, which is not
self-evident. The onus, as a determining factor of the whole case
can only arise if the Tribunal, which is vested with the authority to
determine, finally all questions of fact finds the evidence pro &
contention, so evenly balanced that it can come to no conclusion,
then, the onus will determine the matter. There cannot be any doubt
that onus as a determining factor comes into play where, either there
is no evidence on either side, or where it is equally worthless or where
It is equally balanced. It is imperative to mention here that where such
is not the case and all available evidence is considered, without
reference to the onus and without relying on the circumstances that
onus lies on a particular party, the issue is determined on facts and the
onus cannot be said to have influenced the decisions. However, in the
instant case, the appellant has miserably failed ta lead evidence.
5.8 With regard to the claim of the appellant that the parties are not
offered for cross-examination by the appellant, it is to be noted that the
right of cross-examination is not automatic, but it would be incumbent
only in a situation where the appellant is able to prlma facie
demonstrate that the onus cast on him to establish his version of affairs
is based on primary evidence. In this case, the appellant had failed to
lead any primary evidence, viz. GRNs, octroi receipts, delivery
challans, etc. which would show that the supplies were indeed made. In 6 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

such a situation, the AO is justified in drawing the inference that the
purchases aggregating to Rs. 3,83,34,602/- are not genuine. As
regards the issue of the denial of the cross examination, in the case of GTC Industries Ltd. vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax [1998]
65 ITD 380 (BOM), it was held as under: 5.9 Coming to the issue of estimated addition on the said bogus
purchases, it is pertinent to mention the decision of the Hon'ble Gujarat
High Court in the case of CIT vs. Simit Sheth (2013) 38 Taxmann.com
385 (Guj). In the case, Hon'ble Gujarat High Court was seized with a
similar issue where the AO had found that some of the alleged
suppliers of steel to the assessee had not supplied any goods but had
only provided sale bills and hence, purchases from the said parties
were held' to be bogus. The AO , in that case added the entire amount
of purchases to gross profit of the assesses. Ld. CIT(A) having found
that the assesses had indeed purchased though not from named
parties but other parties from grey market, partially sustained the
addition as probable profit of the assessee. The Tribunal however,
sustained the addition to the extent of 12.5%. Taking into account the
above facts, the Hon'bie Gujarat High Court held that since the
purchases were not bogus, but were made from parties other than
those mentioned in books of accounts, only the profit element
embedded In such purchases could be added to the assessee's
income and as such no question of law arose in such estimation. While
arriving at the above conclusion, the Hon'bie Court also relied on the
decision in the case of Vijay M. Mistry Construction Ltd. 355 1TR 498
(Guj) and further approved the decision of Ahmedabad Bench, ITAT in
the case of Vijay Proteins 58 ITD 428. 5.10 In the present case, AO concluded that the assessee indulged
in non-genuine transaction and intention of indulging in such activity
is to suppress the true profits and to reduce the tax liability.
Therefore, in such circumstances, addition on account of a higher
margin of profit would be fair and equitable which is supported by the above decision of Hon'bie Gujarat High Court in the case of CIT
vs. Simit Sheth 356 UR 451 {Guj).The facts of the present case are
exactly similar to the cited case. The appellant made purchases from
eleven parties who are said to be hawala operators, who are
indulged in providing bogus bills without supply of any material.
Independent inquiries conducted revealed that no parties existed In 7 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

the given addresses. When asked to produce the parties during the
assessment proceedings by the AO as well as in the present
proceedings by the undersigned, appellant expressed his inability to
do so. Moreover, AR, vide order sheet noting dated 05-03-2015
requested the AO to complete the assessment after making a
reasonable addition. Under these circumstances, as the appellant
could not prove the genuineness of the claim of purchases debited
to the profit & loss account, there is no other way to the AO, but to
estimate the profit element embedded on such purchases. As stated
earlier, the facts of the case are exactly similar to the cited case,
therefore respectfully following the above cited decision in the case
of Simlth P. Sheth, the action of the AO in estimating the addition
@12.5% on the total non-genuine purchases from the eleven parties
is confirmed. Ground No. 4 of the appeal is treated as Dismissed'. 5.11 The appellant in the written submissions pleads for deleting
the entire addition based on certain case laws of Hon'ble High Court/
Tribunal, including in the case of Nikunj Eximp Enterprises (P) Ltd
vs. CIT 216 Taxman 171 (Bombay High Court)to suggest that no
addition could be made on account of disallowance of bogus
purchases. Having gone through the case laws , It is seen that In
none of those cases so much of investigation was done including
those by another Government authority, viz., Maharashtra Sales Tax
authority before whom affidavits was filed stating that only bogus
bills were supplied without delivery of goods. In the case before the
Hon'ble Bombay High Court in Nikunj Eximp (supra), the suppliers
had not appeared before the Assessing Officer and from the
judgment it appears that it was not a case of the suppliers being
non-existent. However, in the present case in appeal, the alleged
supplier has been found to be non-existent. This is not merely a
case where the supplier has failed to appear before the Assessing
Officer. Hence, the judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court
relied upon by the appellant would be of no help. In fact in a later
decision In Nikunj Eximp (2014) 48 Taxmann.com 20 (Bom), Hon'ble
Bombay High Court on the very same issue of obtaining bogus bills
dismissed the assessee's Writ Petition filed against notice u/s. 148 .
The other cases cited in the submissions were also not applicable to
the facts of the present case, in view of the fact that the appellant
miserably failed to prove the genuineness of such purchases with
conclusive evidences and through the AR requested to complete the
assessment after making a reasonable addition in view of his failure
to prove the genuineness of the purchases claimed to have been
made from those eleven parties, the facts cited in the case laws are
distinguishable and are not applicable to the facts of the present
case. In view of the same, the appellant's request for deleting the
entire addition is not considered." I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

The learned CIT(A) also dismissed the challenge made by the
assessee for declaring the said reassessment order passed u/s 147 r.w.s. 143(3) bad in law liable to be quashed as no pleadings were
made by the assessee before the learned CIT(A) in this regard which
led to dismissal of the aforesaid legal ground also. Thus, in nut-
shell learned CIT(A) dismissed the appeal of the assessee. 5. Aggrieved by the dismissal of appeal by learned CIT(A), the
assessee has come in an appeal before the tribunal. None appeared on
behalf of the assessee when the appeal was called for hearing before
the Bench on 19-09-2018. It is observed from order sheet entries in
the file that even on earlier occasions when the appeal was fixed for
hearing before the Bench, the assessee chose not to appear before the
Bench. As per record available on file , it could be seen that notice
sent by RPAD was duly served on assessee but despite service of
notice for hearing , none attended on 19-09-2018 on behalf of the
assessee before the Bench when the appeal was called for hearing
before the Bench. The Ld. DR on the other hand relied upon orders of
the authorities below and prayed that the order of learned CIT(A) is
well reasoned detailed order which should be confirmed and appeal of
the assessee be dismissed. 6. We have heard contentions of learned DR as well as perused the
material on record including orders of the authorities below. We have
observed that the assessee is reseller in ferrous and non-ferrous
metals . The original return of income was filed by the assessee on 17-
09-2009 declaring income of Rs. 5,47,160/- which return of income
was processed by Revenue u/s 143(1) of the 1961 Act accepting the
returned income. Thus, the Revenue did not frame assessment u/s
143(3) r.w.s. 143(2) while dealing with original return of income filed
by the assessee u/s 139(1) of the 1961 Act. The information was
received by AO from DGIT(Inv) Wing, Mumbai which in turn was
based on information received by Investigation wing from Maharashtra
VAT authorities that there is a scam unearthed by the Maharashtra 9 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

Sales Tax Department regarding alleged issue of hawala bills or
accommodation entries by several parties from Mumbai who have
issued bogus bills without supplying any material. It was revealed in
the scam so unearthed by Maharashtra VAT authorities that these
alleged bogus hawala parties have issued alleged bogus bills without
supplying any material physically and these parties are infact non-
existent parties and they have not deposited VAT/Sales tax with
Maharashtra VAT Authorities while beneficiaries of these bogus bills
have taken VAT/Sales tax credits in their VAT returns filed with
Maharashtra VAT authorities causing loss to exchequer . The name
of the assessee also appeared in the list prepared by the Maharashtra
Sale Tax Department as beneficiary of these alleged bogus purchases
to the tune of Rs. 3,83,34,603/- from the following alleged bogus
parties:- The AO also got information from Maharashtra VAT authorities that
these alleged bogus dealers are either not traceable or in case these
parties are found, it was found by Maharashtra VAT department that
these parties were not doing any business. This aforesaid material and
tangible incriminating information which was received by the AO from
DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai which incriminating information in turn was
based on information furnished by Maharashtra VAT authorities to
Investigation wing led to formation of belief by the AO that income of
the assessee has escaped assessment which led to the reopening of
the assessment u/s. 147 of the Act by the AO wherein notice u/s. 148 was issued by the AO to the assessee on 25.02.2014 which was
stated by the AO to have been duly served on the assessee . Thus, it
was a fresh material and tangible incriminating material which was
the basis of having reasons to belief by the AO to reopen the
concluded assessment within provisions of Section 147 of the 1961
Act. It is undisputed that originally the return of income was
processed u/s 143(1) and no assessment u/s 143(3) was framed as
well notices u/s 148 was issued within 4 years from the end of the
assessment year. The first proviso to Section 147 is , thus, not
applicable. The assessee was confronted with this incriminating
information by the AO wherein assessee was called upon by the AO
to explain the same . The assessee could not link the purchases with
the corresponding sales . The assessee also could not produce books
of accounts before the AO . The assessee could not produce these
parties before the AO. The assessee vide order sheet entry dated
05.03.2015 requested the AO during the course of re-assessment
proceedings to make reasonable additions with respect to the alleged
bogus purchases which led AO to quantify additions of the profits 11 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

embedded in these alleged bogus purchases which was quantified @
12.5% of the alleged bogus purchases of Rs. 3,83,34,602/- which led
to the additions to the tune of Rs. 47,91,826/- to the returned income
in the hands of the assessee which was later confirmed by learned
CIT(A) as the assessee still could not reconcile purchases with sales as
also the assessee could not prove physical movement of material nor
proof of delivery of material, transport challans , octroi receipts, GRN's
and goods inward register was also not produced before learned
CIT(A). The learned CIT(A) also noted that it is the assessee who has
conceded before the AO to estimate reasonable profits embedded in
these alleged bogus purchases and the assessee cannot be allowed to
resile from the concession offered during the course of assessment
proceedings. The assessee did not submitted any arguments in
support of challenge raised by the assessee before learned CIT(A) on
legal grounds seeking quashment of assessment order which led to
dismissal of assessee's appeal by learned CIT(A) both on merits as well
on legal grounds. We have carefully gone through orders of authorities
below and material on record, we are of the view that well reasoned
orders are passed by both the authorities below in context of factual
matrix of the case. The decision of learned CIT(A) is reproduced above
in preceding para's of this order and is not repeated again. The
estimation of reasonable profits in such cases is supported by decision
of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Kachwala Gems v. JCIT
(2007) 288 ITR 10(SC) as some amount of guess work is always
involved in estimation of reasonable profits in such matters. We also
uphold the validity of the reopening of assessment u/s 147 of the
1961 Act as originally return of income was processed u/s 143(1) and
no assessment was framed u/s 143(3) of the 1961 Act. The notice u/s
148 of the 1961 Act was issued within four years from the end of
assessment and first proviso to Section 147 of the 1961 Act is not
applicable. Further, fresh and new tangible and material incriminating
information was received by the AO as detailed above from DGIT(Inv.),
Mumbai which in turn was based on incriminating information 12 I.T.A. No.1587/Mum/2017

 received from Maharashtra VAT authorities incriminating assessee to
 be beneficiary of alleged bogus purchases and accommodation entries
 which in our considered view keeping in view factual matrix of the
 case was sufficient to reopen the concluded assessment within
 parameters of Section 147 of the 1961 Act. Thus, based on our
 detailed reasoning as set out above, we affirm the appellate order
 passed by learned CIT(A) and dismiss the appeal of the assessee. We
 order accordingly. 7. In the result, the appeal of the assessee in ITA no.
 1587/Mum/2017 for AY 2009-10 stands dismissed. We order
 accordingly. Order pronounced in the open court on 26.09.2018.