06/27.06.2024: Heard all the counsels. The learned counsel for the petitioner (Muktar Ansari in B.A. No.
 3413 of 2024 ) has submitted that only two mobile sets with SIM cards were
 recovered from the possession of this petitioner. However, there is no one who
 has come forward to say that he has been cheated by this petitioner. Moreover,
 the petitioner is in custody since 17.03.2024 and that the petitioner has no
 criminal antecedent. Therefore, this petitioner may be granted privilege of bail. Learned counsel for the State has opposed the bail application of the
 petitioner and has submitted that all the accused persons including this
 petitioner were apprehended together in suspicious circumstances and that the
 mobile sets and SIM cards were in the name of other persons. The learned counsel for the petitioner (Ashraf Ansari in B.A. No.
 3466 of 2024 ) has submitted that three mobile sets with SIM cards along with
 ATM cards and one PAN card have been recovered from the possession of this
 petitioner. The learned counsel has further submitted that ATM cards are
 personal. There is no evidence of cheating or fraud or forgery committed by
 him. Moreover, the petitioner is in custody since 17.03.2024. The learned
 counsel has further submitted that the petitioner has no criminal antecedent.
 Therefore, the petitioner may be granted privilege of bail. The learned counsel for the State has opposed the bail application of
 the petitioner and has submitted that e-wallets have been discovered which
 indicates suspicious activities and that the mobile sets and the SIM cards were
 in the name of other persons. The learned counsel for the petitioner (Md. Mehboob Ansari in B.A.
 No. 3467 of 2024) has submitted that three mobile sets with SIM cards have
 been recovered from the possession of the petitioner. No victim has come
 forward to say that he has been cheated by this petitioner. There is no evidence
 of cheating or fraud or forgery committed by this petitioner. Moreover, the
 petitioner is in custody since 17.03.2024 and that the petitioner has no criminal
 antecedent. Therefore, the petitioner may be granted privilege of bail. The learned counsel for the State has vehemently opposed the bail
 application of the petitioner and has submitted that the petitioner was
 apprehended along with other accused persons. Having heard both counsels, gone through the records of the case,
 and in the facts and circumstances of the case, I am inclined to release the
 petitioners, named above, on bail, on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 25,000/-
 (rupees twenty five thousand only) each with two sureties of the like amount
 each to the satisfaction of learned Additional Sessions Judge-I, Jamtara, in
 connection with Jamtara Cyber Crime P.S. Case No. 19 of 2024, subject to the
 conditions that (i) the petitioners shall remain present on each and every date of
 trial before the Court below unless dispensed with by the learned Court below (ii) the petitioners will submit self-attested photocopy of their Aadhaar Cards
 and also submit their mobile numbers before the learned court below which
 they will always keep active and will not change it during pendency of this
 case without prior permission of the court and (iii) the petitioners shall report to
 the concerned police station on every second and fourth Saturday of the month,
 between 01:00 and 05:00 p.m for one year, failing which or if any adverse
 remarks regarding their non-appearance at the police station, their bail bonds
 shall be liable to be cancelled. Any exemption to such attendance shall be done
 so after direction of the learned Court below.