Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: General discussion on the Union Budget for 2017-18 (Discussion not concluded). SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY ( CHIKKABALLAPUR ): Madam Speaker, I am thankful for the opportunity given to me to speak on the Budget.  I think, when the time is ripe for a transformational Budget, I am afraid that this Budget has turned out to be a timid one without any will power, any thrust and also the vision to take the country forward. I may only recall to the memory of the House that when the Economic Survey was presented in the first Budget, it was clearly laid out that the fundamentals of the economy of the country are very strong.  With that kind of economic atmosphere, the first Budget of this Government was presented. That means to say, we thought that they will not be aggrieved by the legacy question when the legacy is good.  Legacy was forward looking.  There is no reason for this Government to look back today after three years and say the legacy is bad.  That clearly demonstrates the fact that it is only a political statement.  What some of our young friends say, it is a jumla. In fact, there is no vision for the growth in the light of the falling growth backdrop, bank NPAs reaching the highest level and the Trump factor from US which has already threatened with the kind of protectionism, with the kind of total assault on our IT industry. It is our own self-made hara-kiri which is committed in the economy of this country for the first time, that is, demonetization.  That is why, we expected this Budget to address some of the serious concerns. With regard to the Budget, now, the question is before us officially yes, the hon. Finance Minister has presented the Budget.  We are expected to speak on that.  Sometimes it looks that there is no synchronisation among the various wings of this Government.  There is no synchronisation between the Prime Minister’s statement which is given outside the House and inside the House. There is no synchronisation with regard to the Budget presented and also the Economic Survey which is presented.  So, we are in a puzzle to know which one we should address today. Is it the Budget or the PM’s speech or the Economic Survey? The Economic Survey really expresses the concerns.  They have also given some projections but when you look into the Budget, this does not address any concern of the country. I am not telling you the concerns of the Opposition.  That is why, we find here that manufacturing sector is not growing up. Unemployment is just knocking our doors afflicting the economy, society and the country.  The public sector investment is coming down and not taking up.  Private investment is just coming down and in the last three years, I would rather say even one year earlier to their coming, the investment has become stagnant as on today. It is not only declining but more stagnant with a severe hit on the informal sector and the rural sector which took as a consequence of the demonetization. The economic loss, which the demonetization brought, in terms of at least one per cent lower GDP growth immediately and the job losses have not been factored in any of the proposals of the Budget which is presented.  The fiscal policy statement which has just been given out is not based upon that.  If you can make your own divisions, you can feel that there is a clear projection of more than 4.5 per cent fiscal deficit as against 3 per cent. I will come back to that with a little more details later. In fact, there is no concretization of the subjects and issues referred to in the Economic Survey making thus an empty document as the Budget does not carry it forward.  There seems to be a mismatch between the two.  I always find this Government as a total discrepant. This is the major problem with the Government. Implementation of the Pay Commission proposals is also unclear in the speech. More details are sought to be done.  Focus on rural and social sector spending, roads and highways is along the expected lines. The need of the hour is to accelerate the economy and to promote the consumption but this Budget does not have anything substantial on this.  That will not ease out anything. Experts say that the Budget 2017-18 coming right after demonetization move had raised legitimate hopes for greater allocation for social sector.  In fact, hardly anything significant has been done even in sectors like health and education.  For the first time, the Budget speaks of giving up Plan and non-Plan sector classification which has been removed and there should be a rise in the capital spending. It has not been worked out as if this revolutionary step has not been taken up. We support it. We do support the Plan and Non-Plan merger. But what is the step ahead? Have you synchronised it? Even it has not percolated down to the States. The guidelines have not gone even to the States. How do they factor their Budget with this kind of a new concept? An impression is being made that the capital expenditure has been raised substantially. Revenue and capital expenditure data are sensitive to classification and the Budget speech did not mention how they have been classified. Practically, I must tell you, Madam, that there is no proper classification at all. So, with this kind of a great change which is taking place, the merger of Plan and Non-Plan should have been brought in systematically and scientifically. Overall, it is all clear that how amazing merging the Railway Budget and discouraging Plan and Non-Plan! These are great steps forward. We are not fundamentally against merger of the Railway Budget with the General Budget. But the point is, these mergers have been confused. The direction is definitely lost. Substantial increase in Non-Plan expenditure has not been coherently reflected in the Budget at a glance. Just go through that. If you go deeper into that, you will get into more problems. So, it is necessary. The Budget 2017 should put to rest all claims related to fiscal windfall accruing on account of the demonetisation exercise. It has already been admitted. I was just looking at some of the comparative pictures of many other countries and what inspired the Prime Minister of our country to resort to it. Ultimately, I found in the Economic Survey itself, not from any other document, that he has borrowed all these three exact words--fighting terrorism, fighting black money and fighting counterfeits--from the Pakistan demonetisation order. You see the Economic Survey. Pakistan issued the order not subsequent to us. They issued the order in June 2015. After two years, it dawned upon our Prime Minister that Pakistan has taken a right step, so let me follow it. For the first time in the history of the country-- it is not for a joke, I am telling Madam—that we are following Pakistan today. Whether it is right or not, it is for the people to decide that. I do not understand one more thing. It is all my imagination. As the demonetisation is also the imagination of the hon. Prime Minister emerging out of nothing, this idea also emerged out of my mind that in the morning of 8th November, three Chiefs of the Defence met the Prime Minister. They had a very, long, long discussion. You go through the newspapers. They explained about the surgical strike. That idea of ‘surgical strike’ entered the mind, brain of the Prime Minister and again I think I do not know whether they had suggested or he thought about it, in the evening he announced another surgical strike on the economy of the country. This strike is on the common people. That strike was against our enemy country. This surgical strike is against our own people. I am telling this out of my imagination because a new trend, a new legacy has started that we all coin from our own imagination as the Prime Minister has laid the precedent on that. So, if you can go through that, 22 countries have gone in for demonetisation. The list is with me here. Anyway, I do not want to expand that because it is not worth expanding that argument. It is not worth following Pakistan.    These are the same words. There is no difference. I think his advisors must have given the same words borrowed from Pakistan. No other country has given these reasons. All other countries have given the reasons of inflation, disruption in economy and many other things. But Pakistan and India except all other countries of the world have given these three reasons for demonetization. But there is no gain either to the common man or anyone. Then, let us come to the Budget Estimates and other things, I must tell you that this Budget is very crucial for the Ruling Party. In another two Budgets I do not think that they can make any innovation or reform or anything. Reforms should have happened here today so that they could have encashed upon it the next two years. That has not happened. So, this Budget is an anti-climax vis-à-vis the revenue mobilization and fiscal conservatism displayed by the Government in adhering to a stringent fiscal deficit target of 3.2 per cent. The total expenditure is projected to fall from 13.4 per cent of GDP in 2016 to 12.7 per cent of GDP in 2017-18. Even the Economic Survey has hinted out a fall in real investment in 2016-17. The Economic Survey has been given by Shri Arvind Subramanian. He is the only economist in the entire Government. He said that he cautioned his Government against fiscal activism. But with all that they adopted this. While it is good for the Prime Minister to have his periodic ‘Man Ki Baat’ with the citizens, I would suggest that the Government should have the periodic ‘Kaam Ki Baat’, which is totally lacking. … (Interruptions) ‘Man Ki Baat’ is alright. But there should be ‘Kaam Ki Baat’. You should tell the Government to have ‘Kaam Ki Baat’. … (Interruptions) He is a prophet like Prime Minister, he is not expected to do Kaam Ki Baat; he is expected to do Man Ki Baat. That is what he has already been doing. That is why we should be very careful. So far as demonetization is concerned, I do not want to deal much with that because yesterday also it was discussed and from time to time it has been discussed. I must tell you that there are two arguments on this. One is economic argument.… (Interruptions) SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE ( GULBARGA ): They say that UPA Government has not done anything to bring back black money. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: Why are you obstructing your own Member to speak? … (Interruptions) SHRI MALLIKARJUN KHARGE : That is what he is telling now. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I will come to that … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF FINANCE AND MINISTER OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS (SHRI ARUN JAITLEY): You have done so much that it took you 24 hours to realize what you have done and Mr. Moily has still not realized that.… (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I have not come to that subject at all. Jaitley ji, I will come to that subject.… (Interruptions) So, there are two arguments. One is economic argument and the other is moral argument. The moral argument is what he was doing till the UP election and he has done it in rest of the elections. But lately in his speech he has toned down. He has totally toned down. I have a copy of the Business Standard which very clearly says that he has toned down; his party has toned down. But he has not toned down in this House because of that pride within him. … (Interruptions) SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ): Which Paper? SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : It is from the Business Standard. SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY : Then, I will purchase that.… (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Ok. … (Interruptions) And, they have toned down. What happened to the moral argument? The process has hurt the poorest such as daily wagers, farmers, vendors, etc. The State has unleashed the people in the name of protecting moral standards. We are told by the Government that it will do the best for its citizens and citizens need not understand the rationale or reasoning. The blame of black money has been put on ‘We, the people’ instead of on institutions or institutional process. So, ‘demonisation’. … (Interruptions) SHRI JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA ( GUNA ): Actually, it is ‘demonisation’.  … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : Yes, it is actually so. Anyway, by slip of tongue, it has come. Maybe so. … (Interruptions) Demonetisation is for losers. This is not told by me. This is told by Steve H. Hanke, American Applied Economist at John Hopkins University. He said, ‘Demonetisation is for losers and has been bungled from the start. No one, not even Prime Minister Narendra Modi knows where India is heading.’ I am not telling this. If we say, they will say that we are personally attacking. Why should we personally attack? … (Interruptions)  No, I have not said this. You better tell these people who are experts, Nobel laureates, who have been giving such opinions one after another.  That means it is for losers. Do you think that Mr. Modi has already become a loser after three years, which he is realizing? Now, you have a trail of  all his election speeches and you will definitely say that he is a loser. Some people say that notebandi has become votebandi. That is what the latest trend is. The Government does not want to answer to the people. They say that we are not entitled to an answer. Their goalposts are not articulated. Every category of citizen is expected to be a patriot or a criminal. There are only two categories. We are all criminals because the people who oppose it are criminals and the people who support it are patriots. There is a new definition. I think, we will have to carry a conduct certificate! … (Interruptions)  My way is always a highway, but if you do not speak on my tone, you are criminals and you are terrorists and you are black-marketeers and you are black money people and anti-national. … (Interruptions)  Whatever. Unless people have confidence that money deposited in the banks can be freely convertible into cash and vice versa, they will be reluctant to deposit or to invest. Cash withdrawal curbs will further lead to hoarding. People will hold black money again with new notes. That is what it is.  I think, we should all salute Indiraji who had nationalized banks and taken the banks to the doorsteps of the poorest of the poor. Here is a Prime Minister who has come to take away the banks from the poor. Economic Survey itself suggested you to come out with a policy report. … (Interruptions) You can have your turn later. The Prime Minister has already made you to lose the voice. Regaining the voice, I think, may be very difficult. Is there any policy support in the Budget which is given here?  Economic Survey acknowledged adversities of demonetisation and suggested to set the remonetisation pace faster. Where is the remonetisation? Again, some more distortions are taking place. I may refer to one more statement. It is, again, not my statement. Do not mistake that it is my statement. It is not so. In fact, it is a statement of John Maynard Keynes, who is the founder of the macro-economy in the world. Lenin of Soviet Russia is said to have declared that the best way to destroy the capitalist system was to debauch the currency. He thought like that. By a continuing process of inflation, governments can confiscate, secretly and unobserved, an important part of the wealth of their citizens. By this method, they not only confiscate, but they confiscate arbitrarily; and while the process impoverishes many, it actually enriches some. The sight of this arbitrary re-arrangement of riches strikes not only at security, but at confidence in the existing distribution of wealth. It further states : “गांव, गरीब, मजदूर, किसान, मिलकर बनाएं हिन्दुस्तान।” 

          आपके बजट की प्राथमिकता क्या थी। गांधी जी ने दर्शन दिया था, गांधी दर्शन है, नंबर एक - यानी कृषि, नंबर दो - कुटीर उद्योग और छोटे उद्योग, नंबर तीन है बड़े उद्योग। सरदार पटेल जी की मृत्यु के बाद आपने उस प्राथमिकता को बदल दिया। मैं माननीय नरेन्द्र मोदी जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं। माननीय सरदार पटेल जी और राष्ट्रपिता महात्मा गांधी जी की दृष्टि को माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने शुरु किया है, नंबर एक पर कृषि, नंबर दो पर ग्रामीण विकास। गांव और किसान सबसे ज्यादा पिछड़ा रहा है और उसका कल्याण करने के लिए योजना में जोर दिया गया है, इसके लिए भारत सरकार को धन्यवाद। सभापति जी, दूसरी तरफ देखिए। आप लोगों की दृष्टि है, कहीं पर निगाहें और कहीं पर निशाना। बात किसी की कर रहे हैं और गीत किसी का गा रहे हैं। अरे, गीत गाइए, लेकिन जिसका गीत है, उसी के लिए गाएंगे तो सुनने में मजा आएगा। आप तो सुना रहे थे, इसलिए मेरी आपसे विनम्र प्रार्थना है कि आप सुनिए। सभापति जी, ये हमें लंबी-लंबी बातें सुनाते हैं। ये विषमता किसके समय में आई। मैं किसान हूं। 1951 में 71.9 प्रतिशत किसान थे, 2001 में 45.1 हो गए, इस तरह 26.8 किसान कम हो गए। कृषि मजदूर वर्ष 1991 में 28.1 प्रतिशत था, जो वर्ष 2011 में 54.9 प्रतिशत हो गया, यानी 26.08 प्रतिशत बढ़ गया। एक तरफ किसान के प्रतिशत में कमी होती है, तो खुशी होती है कि वह खेती से हटकर कहीं दूसरे रोजगार में गया होगा, बाबू बना होगा, महल में गया होगा, कुर्सी पर बैठा होगा। लेकिन जब मैं दूसरी तरफ देखता हूं तो 26.8 प्रतिशत खेतिहर मजदूर में बढ़ोतरी हुई है। इसका मतलब है कि जो किसान था, उसे ही आपने खेतिहर मजदूर बना दिया है। जो खेती करने वाला था, वह मजदूर बन गया। गांव में जो 82.7 प्रतिशत लोग रहते थे, वे घटते-घटते 68.8 प्रतिशत हो गये, यानी 14 परसेंट कम हो गये। यह सोचा गया कि गांव का आदमी कम हुआ है, तो वह शहर गया होगा। उसने वहां अच्छी दुकान बनायी होगी, कारखाना बनाया होगा, बाबू  बना होगा। लेकिन जब वे दिल्ली में आये, तो रिक्शा चलाते, ठेला चलाते और फुटपाथ पर सोते हैं, पेड़ के नीचे सोते हैं। सबसे ज्यादा पूर्वी उत्तर प्रदेश और बिहार के नौजवान दिल्ली में रोजगार खोजने के लिए आते हैं। वे यहां किसान का बेटा बनकर आये थे। किसी भी जाति का हो, लेकिन यहां रिक्शा चलाता है, ठेला चलाता है, मजदूरी करता है और फुटपाथ पर सोता है। वह एक पेड़ के नीचे रहता है, जन्मता है, पलता है और बढ़ता है। दूसरे पेड़ की छाया के नीचे शादी होती है। बड़े लोग हनीमून मनाने के लिए स्विटजरलैंड जाते हैं, लेकिन वे बेचारे अपना हनीमून उसी पेड़ की छाया के नीचे मनाते हैं। सड़क पर गाड़ी, घोड़ा चलाता है और गरीब का बच्चा हनीमून मनाता है। क्या आपने कभी उनके बारे में सोचा है? आपने उनके बारे में इसलिए नहीं सोचा, क्योंकि आप जिस वर्ग से आते हैं, उसका क्लास करैक्टर ऐसा था इसलिए उसके लिए नहीं सोचा। श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी उस वर्ग से आये हैं, उनका क्लास करैक्टर वैसा है, इसलिए उस वर्ग की ओर चिन्तन करते हैं। यह इंडिया और भारत का संघर्ष है। मैं नरेन्द्र मोदी जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा कि उन्होंने भारत में एक नयी विचारधारा के साथ युद्ध को आमंत्रित किया है। इस युद्ध का परिणाम पता नहीं क्या होगा, लेकिन आप एक बात समझ लीजिए कि युद्ध का परिणाम अच्छा निकलेगा, क्योंकि अब गांव, गरीब, मजदूर, किसान आदि सब जग गये हैं। हिन्दुस्तान के 85 प्रतिशत लोग आज श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी के पीछे खड़े हैं उनके और 15 प्रतिशत लोगों के बीच में युद्ध छिड़ा हुआ है। ...(व्यवधान) यह आया है और इसका निराकरण होगा। मेरी आपसे विनम्र प्रार्थना है कि आप इस पर सोचिए। हम कहते जायेंगे, लेकिन आप कुछ नहीं सोचेंगे। सभापति महोदया, उस दिन मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे जी बोल रहे थे, तो लघु किसान और सीमांत किसान की बात कर रहे थे। वर्ष 1990-91 में सीमांत किसान 59.4 प्रतिशत थे और लघु किसान 18.8 प्रतिशत थे। वर्ष 2010-11 में सीमांत किसान 59 परसेंट से बढ़कर 64-65 प्रतिशत हो गये और लघु किसान 18.8 प्रतिशत से बढ़कर 18.52 प्रतिशत हो गये। जितने सीमांत किसान थे, वे लघु किसान बन गये। दो हैक्टेयर, पांच हैक्टेयर जमीन वाले एक हैक्टेयर, आधा हैक्टेयर जमीन के किसान बन गये। उन्हें किसने इस स्थिति में रहने के लिए मजबूर किया था। मैं आपसे प्रार्थना करना चाहूंगा कि आप कम से कम इस पर ठंडे दिल से सोचिए। ...(व्यवधान) श्री मल्लिकार्जुन खड़गे :  हुक्मदेव जी, मैं आपका भाषण हमेशा बहुत गंभीरता के साथ सुनता हूं, क्योंकि आप एक सोशलिस्ट पार्टी के बैकग्राउंड से आये हैं। आपकी पैदाइश कांग्रेस से हुई। ...(व्यवधान) लोहिया जी पहले कांग्रेस में थे, उसके बाद सोशलिस्ट बने। यह उनके साथ जुड़े हुए थे। यह बाल्यावस्था में कांग्रेसी थे, गृहस्थ आश्रम में सोशलिस्ट रहे। अब सन्यास आश्रम आ गया, इसलिए बीजेपी के साथ हैं।  अब बात यह है कि आप लैंड रिफार्म्स लाकर टेनेंट्स को जो जमीन बांटी गयी है या जो सरप्लस जमीन बांटी गयी है, क्या आप उन सबको कन्सोलिडेट करना चाहते हैं या जो छोटे किसान हैं, उनके लिए कुछ मदद करना  चाहते हैं? आप इस बारे में बोलिए। श्री हुक्मदेव नारायण यादव : मैं उसको कंसॉलिडेट नहीं करना चाहता, लेकिन मैं उसको फ्रैगमेंटेड भी नहीं करना चाहता। हम एक तरफ वैज्ञानिक, मशीनीकृत और आधुनिक खेती की बात करते हैं, पहले हल और बैल से खेती होती थी, अब ट्रैक्टर से खेती होती है। पहले मजदूर हंसुआ से गेहूं काटता था, अब कम्बाइन मशीन से गेहूं काटता है। एक तरफ कहते हैं कि वैज्ञानिक खेती करो, मशीनीकृत खेती करो और दूसरी तरफ जमीन का बंटवारा कर दीजिए। वह भूमि सुधार नहीं था, वह भूमि की लूट थी। भूमि सुधार का मतलब बहुत कुछ होता है, जिस पर आप जब बहस करेंगे, तब हम कर लेंगे।...(व्यवधान) आपने अभी लोहिया जी के बारे में कहा। माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने बेनामी सम्पत्ति को छीनने के लिए कानून बनाया है, जेटली जी ने उसमें कड़े दण्डों को प्रावधान किया है, तो आपने सोचा कि यह कहां से आया। सन् 1955 में समाजवादी युवक सभा के पुरी सम्मेलन में व्याख्यान देते हुए कांचन मुक्ति पर डाक्टर लोहिया ने कहा था: Even now the co-operative society banks have been barred from accepting funds under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme. The Government needs to elaborate how it intends to treat the cooperative banks in the future. Madam, there are no banks in most of the Gram Panchayats of Odisha. Out of a total of 6234 Gram Panchayats, 4596 did not have any banks till 2014. Against a target of opening 2045 branches, only 196 branches have been opened so far. Opening of new branches needs to be expedited at the earliest. My CM also expressed his unhappiness that there was no growth at all in the allocation of special Central assistance to the States for the Scheduled Caste Welfare Scheme as well as social security scheme like pension under the National Social Assistance Programme. I request the Government to look into this and increase the allocation. So far as the railway is concerned, Odisha has been allocated with an amount of Rs.5,102 crore for the development of railway infrastructure in the Indian Budget. Our demand was about Rs.5,070 crore. The allocation made for the year 2017-18 is nine per cent more than the previous year. There is an allocation of Rs.4,682 crore. This is a welcome measure… (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : Dr. Prabhas Kumar Singh, you continue. All these are not going on record, except the speech of Dr. Prabhas Kumar Singh. …(Interruptions) …* 

DR. PRABHAS KUMAR SINGH : So far as the railway infrastructure is concerned, a lot of initiatives have been taken. But I want to know that there are certain projects which are very profitable like the Bargarh-Nuapada railway line. The Government has made three times the survey. The RoR is 18 per cent. I am surprised why the funds are not given to such project. Again, there is a long pending demand for the creation of a new Railway Division at Jharsuguda. Jharsuguda alone is giving Rs.6,000 crore to the East Coast Railway out of Rs.15,000 crore. It comes under three Divisions, Sambalpur, Chakradharpur and Bilaspur. It has enough infrastructure. A new airport is coming up by 2017. A number of industries, educational institutions and IIMs are there, and there is a lot of demand from the people of that area for this. So, there is every possibility and scope for the creation of a new Railway Division at Jharsuguda (Orissa). Also, our State Government has agreed for making a new ROB at Jagannathnagar-Barpali in Bargarh district and the estimated amount is jointly prepared by the Railway Department of the Central Government and the State Government. The total amount is about Rs.2200 crore.  I do not know why this does not find a place in this year’s Budget. So, I will request the hon. Railway Minister that he should think not only about taking measures for railway security, passenger amenities etc. but also look at where ROB is required because on this also depends the safety and security of people. 14.06 hours              

                             (Shri Hukmdeo Narayan Yadav in the Chair) 

          Regarding farmers, hon. Finance Minister has given a lot of incentives for doubling production within five years through har khet ko paani, Fasal Bima Yojana and Soil Health Card etc. Prof. Saugata Roy was telling about MSP. What is the MSP for paddy? During the last parliamentary election, hon. Prime Minister had said in his speech that if they come to power, they would implement Dr. Swaminathan Committee Report. Our Chief Minister, Shri Naveen Patnaik, has written so many times to the Central Government to increase MSP for paddy to Rs. 2,500 per quintal. I think, at present, MSP for paddy is Rs. 1,460 per quintal. Only increasing the production will not cater to the needs of the farmers.  We are getting a number of reports from different media that farmers are committing suicides and in order to remove the plight of the farmers, we have to increase the MSP of different agricultural crops like wheat, paddy etc.          

After demonetisation,  there has been a drastic drop ranging from 80 to 85 per cent in the prices of vegetables like tomato and onion, as has been observed in the winter of 2016. There has been a bumper supply of vegetables due to favourable monsoon,  but there has been a major drop in the demand of these vegetables, primarily due to demonetisation which caused an imbalance and it resulted in prices of vegetables dropping. The vegetable markets will take time to recover from this shock. Does the Government have any contingency plan to compensate the losses the farmers have suffered in the past few months? This is a very important thing for the farmers who are suffering a lot because despite increase in their production,  they are not able to get sufficient prices. Very important for my State is what you are planning for our old share of Central Sales Tax (CST). With Goods and Service Tax rolling ahead, Odisha’s pending dues of CST share must not be forgotten. I hope that a solid commitment will be made on which dates, what amount of our pending dues will be given back to us. Sir, Non-Performing Assets have doubled since last year. In February 2016, our banks declared that four lakh crore of rupees of the total loans are not recoverable and they are Non-Performing Assets (NPAs). This was also confirmed in an answer given in response to a Question raised in Parliament in July, 2016. According to the Economic Survey Report of 2017, 71 per cent of all loan defaults are by top 50 Indian companies. Any further write-downs of big loans will compel our banks to face a huge cash crunch. This year's Economic Survey report also confirms that NPAs have doubled since last year. This is a very serious matter and we have to look into this issue. New lending has practically stopped. There are too many bad old loans to take care of  in the farming sector, lot of loans have to be recovered. I think, if we can give some loan-waiving to the farmers, it will be a big help to them. We have seen the highest unemployment during the last five years. On 6th February, 2016, Minister of State for Planning, Rao Inderjit Singhji, in reply to a Question in Rajya Sabha said that the overall unemployment is rising. He said that : “The unemployment rate is 5 per cent generally. That's a 2 per cent increase in two years and it is the highest in five years.”. These figures only show the state our economy is in. So far as the manufacturing sector is concerned, the Economic Survey of this year reveals that the manufacturing industry is experiencing an all time low with no money nor any loans available from banks. In November itself the Nikkei Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) -- a gauge of manufacturing performance -- fell to 49.6 in December down from October's 22-month high of 54.4. So many schemes have been introduced by this Government like five special zones to boost tourism. At the same time, we have to develop so many tourism spots where we can get the tourists to come because tourism is the biggest market to allow everybody to earn income. In Odisha, there are lot of Buddhist Circuits like Ratnagiri, Lalitgiri, Khandagiri, Udaygiri, and we also have very scenic beauty in my Parliamentary constituency, namely, Nrushinghanath where you have natural beauty, tribal lives, monuments, natural medicinal herbs, which can be developed and included in the tourist map to allow these areas to develop. Finally, I want to request the Union Government that the Budget, this year, was expected to be full of reforms given the demonetisation exercise last month. It instead gave mixed signals with a sharp increased allocation to social welfare schemes and a minimal increase in education and health spending. You have also neglected the education and health sectors because education is a big challenge for our country. Not a single University from our country comes in the list of Top-200 universities in the world. So, sharp focus on education, especially allocation of funds to the Ministry of HRD should be increased and we have to focus on education and for the overall development of our country. We also have to see and assess how we can develop the farm sectors, manufacturing sectors, etc. 

A lot of welfare schemes have been taken by our State Government. Our Leader, Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab, was just mentioning about the Mamata scheme, Aahar scheme, and scheme for the farmers, masons and organized labourers. If we get more funds from the Government of India for those schemes, then we can develop them a lot. Once again, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on the Union Budget 2017-2018. Thank you. SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ): Thank you, Sir. I thank you very much for giving me an opportunity to speak on this historic Budget. It is historic, as the Finance Minister says, not only because of merger of the Railway Budget with the General Budget, but it is equally historic not only for me, but also for the people of my Constituency Guntur where the new capital of Andhra Pradesh, Amaravati, is coming up for the people of Andhra Pradesh. It is historic because the hon. Finance Minister made a historic announcement in paragraph 150 of the Budget exempting farmers and other persons who have given more than 32,000 acres of land voluntarily from the capital gain tax on a call given by the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh on whom they have full faith and confidence. The announcement of the Finance Minister has really reinvigorated that confidence and faith of people on our beloved Chief Minister, which I had seen personally when I visited my constituency the very next day of the presentation of the Budget. So, all credit goes to the hon. Prime Minister; Finance Minister; the Chief Minister of our State; and the people of Guntur will remain ever grateful to all of you. Sir, in short, the hon. Finance Minister outlined his Budget in two words – TEC India. That is, Transform, Energise and Clean India. This agenda seeks to transform the quality of governance and quality of life of our people; energise various sections of society, especially the youth and the vulnerable, and enable them to unleash their true potential; and clean the country from the evils of corruption, black money and non-transparent political funding. I congratulate the Finance Minister for taking various measures which help in bringing down the inflation from 6 per cent to 3.4 per cent at the December last; Current Account deficit from 1 per cent last year to about 0.3 per cent in the first half of 2016-17. Various monetary agencies have also said that India is a bright spot and projected a healthy growth rate of over 7 per cent in the coming two years; and healthy 36 per cent increase in FDI inflows in the first half of 2016-17 when compared to previous year despite 5 per cent reduction in global FDI flows. These measures have certainly helped the Finance Minister to make this Budget more poor, farmer and middle-class-friendly which is the objective and slogan of the Government – Sab ka saath, sab ka vikas. Before touching upon some of the issues relating to the Budget, I would say that the people of Andhra Pradesh were expecting an announcement either in the Budget or in the President’s Address of giving legal backing to the Special Development Package announced by the hon. Finance Minister last September. I hope, while replying to the debate, the Finance Minister certainly throw some light on this. Secondly, there are some issues which are to be implemented as per the mandate given under Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act . I wish to touch upon some of them and request the hon. Finance Minister to please ponder over those issues and take positive action without any further delay. The first one is about the revenue deficit of the residuary State of Andhra Pradesh. When Andhra Pradesh was divided, the revenue deficit was Rs. 16,000 crores and report to this effect was also submitted by the Governor to the Government of India. The Reorganisation Act mandates that Government of India should fill this gap. So far, Government of India has given just Rs. 3,795 crores. We want to know when the remaining Rs. 12,205 crores are to be released to Andhra Pradesh. I am given to understand that Government of India is putting queries by saying that the Andhra Pradesh Government is giving pensions implementing farm loan waiver. But I am sure that the Finance Minister will understand that this deficit is from 2014-15 and during that period, neither were there any enhanced pensions nor any farm loan waiver scheme in that year. I remind him of his statement, “each paisa or rupee of this revenue deficit is going to be paid to Andhra Pradesh and we will continue to pay that”. This is the statement of the Finance Minister. So, it is not fair to stop money based on irrelevant queries or on one pretext or the other. Please let us know as to when this Rs. 12,205 crores will be released to Andhra Pradesh. The second point is about the apportionment of tax arrears and refunds. Section 50 and 51 of the Act confer the right to recover tax arrears and loans as on the appointed day i.e., 2nd June, 2014. But, here, there is a problem. These two sections mandate to collect arrears and refunds on the basis of geographical area and Section 56 talks of sharing of liability on the basis of population. So, there are two different yardsticks for tax arrears and for refunds. This is absolutely anomalous and we have been demanding to rectify this. Because of this anomaly, Andhra Pradesh is losing Rs. 3,820 crores and the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh has also written letters to this effect with the latest one being last October. But I do not know what has happened to this. I want to know when the Government of India will rectify this and save Andhra Pradesh of the loss Rs. 3,820 crores. The third is regarding the Special Development Package for backward regions of Rayalaseema and North Coastal Andhra. The assurance was that the development package was on the lines of the KBK in Odisha and Bundelkhand region in MP and UP. But Government of India is washing off its hands by giving just Rs. 50 crores to each district for three years and it will be extended for three more years. What kind of development can be taken up with such a small amount for the entire district? We are not asking for anything extra; we are only asking to fulfil the assurance which says that the development package should be on the lines of KBK and Bundelkhand. So, without any further delay, I request the Finance Minister to also announce this because seven out of thirteen districts in my State are covered under this. The fourth point is regarding Polavaram. I sincerely appreciate the fact that Government of India is bearing 100 per cent expenditure for this project. However, under the package, the Government of India is silent on whether it is going to pay any money for rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons. Since the hon. Finance Minister himself has announced this, I request him to clarify whether the Government of India will bear the entire burden of expenditure on Polavaram, including R&R expenses. If not, please give us the reasons for the same. Sir, the hon. Finance Minister is on record saying, in September 2016, “That the Centre had decided to give Andhra Pradesh a ‘Special Assistance Measure’ that would be equal to the benefits the State would have got under special status.” We felt happy and accepted this assuming that Andhra Pradesh would get benefits equal to what one would get under the Special Category Status, if not more. But, when I closely looked at it, I thought some aspects were left out. I wish to bring those issues, through this platform, to the notice of the Finance Minister and request him to add them in the Special Development Package. They are as under: डॉ. ए.सम्पत ( अट्टिंगल ) :  सभापति महोदय, सदन में कोरम नहीं है। ...(व्यवधान) This is an important discussion. There is no quorum. Hon. Chairman, this is a very important discussion. … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : आप कोरम की डिमांड कर रहे हैं या आपका सिर्फ सब्मिशन है? …( व्यवधान) डॉ. ए.सम्पत : सभापति महोदय, हम कोरम की डिमांड कर रहे हैं। …( व्यवधान) In the Lok Sabha, on the Budget discussion, there is no quorum. … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : Let the quorum bell be rung. अब गणपूर्ति हो गई है। माननीय सदस्य श्री जैदेव गल्ला अपना भाषण जारी रख सकते हैं। SHRI JAYADEV GALLA : Sir, in the second Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Investment Summit held at Visakhapatnam resulted in signing of 665 MoUs envisaging an investment of Rs.10.54 lakh crore with an employment potential of Rs.22.34 lakhs. Hon. Finance Minister graced the occasion and said and I wish to quote: 15.00 hours 

 

SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, thank you. I rise to participate in the discussion of the General Budget presented by our hon. Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley. The Budget is not merely a balance sheet of tallying assets and liabilities. It is something more that it should have a vision. We should assess or commend the Budget with this objective, both perspective and annual. The major objective of the Budget should be to make social changes, reduce the gap between the rich and the poor, uplift the downtrodden people to the mainstream. The problems of dalits, minorities, other backward classes, and women have to be taken seriously. 15.01 hours               

                                 (Shri K.H. Muniyappa in the chair) 

          The presentation of the Budget was very beautiful and attractive. But at the same time, when we went through the allocations in the Budget, we have not got such an inspiration because they are not the same as they were projected. The Budget has been placed before the House when the common people of India are reeling under the disastrous impact of demonetisation. People thought that there would be concrete measures to give relief to the common people after the shocking experiences of the demonetisation. But the Budget proposals are really disappointing. The Finance Minister has said that huge allocations have been made to various Ministries. But when we compare these allocations to the Budget Estimates of the last year, we could see that the increase is nominal or in many cases stagnant. The size of  the Budget has come down from 13.5 per cent of the GDP in the last year to 12.2 per cent of the GDP. The decline in the fiscal deficit target from 6.32 per cent is because of the reduction in the public expenditure. The total revenue received has come down from 9.41 per cent of the GDP from 2016-17 to nine per cent of the GDP in this Budget Estimate. The tax foregone has gone up by about Rs. 30,000 crore which is 2.1 per cent of the GDP.  So, it is on these grounds that they are trying to reduce the fiscal deficit from 6.32 per cent to  3.2 per cent. At a time when the farmers suicides have gone up, we should have had better allocation for the agriculture sector. There is only a minimal allocation that we could see. Of course, there is a bank credit of Rs. 10 lakh crore. But it is provided at a high interest rate of 12 or 14 per cent.  The banks are ready to give the loans to the people but at high interest rates. So, it would not benefit the common people but it would assist the bankers because the Government is not ready to implement the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission Report of providing loans at four per cent interest rate. The Government is not ready to implement that. There is an allocation of Rs. 48,000 crore for the MNREG which may be the higher allocation. But last year the Revised Estimate was more than Rs. 47,500 crore. So, the increase is only Rs. 5,00 crore and not more as stated by the Finance Minister. There is no increase with regard to the PMGSY allocations.  It was earlier Rs. 19,000 crore and now also we see the same amount. The World Health Organisation and the International Labour Organisation have laid stress on the protein consumption, especially for the poor people. We have discussed the need to promote the production of cereals and pulses in the House. Earlier the allocation was Rs. 3,400 crore and now it is only Rs. 3,500 crore, an increase of only Rs. 100 crore, and not more than that. So, how can the Government say that they are laying more emphasis on the health sector? The Finance Minister speaks much about the health sector, but the allocation to the NHRM is only Rs. 5,000 crore. The Finance Minister talks of infrastructure which is the need for development. Though we see a big figure, the capital expenditure of the Government has fallen from 1.86 per cent of the GDP in the Revised Estimates of 2016-17 to 1.84 per cent of the GDP in 2017-18. Then, how can we say that there is a big investment in that sector? The Finance Minister also speaks much about the transfer of funds of the States. States are suffering especially due to the demonetisation. Since the GST is not finally implemented, the State Governments are not in a position even to frame their Budgets. The allocation to the States are not sufficient to meet their demands. Earlier the transfer of funds to the States was Rs. 9.25 lakh crore and now it is Rs. 9.84 lakh crore. The increase is very meagre. The Sarve Shiksha Abhiyan which needs more attention has been allocated only Rs. 1305 crore. The Economic Survey presented in the House clearly shows a decline in economic growth, a sharp fall in demand for goods and services, massive job loss, decline in farm incomes and social disruption in cash incentive sectors. The fiscal deficit has declined. It is true. Sir, Rs.72,000 crore is expected from the disinvestment of the public sector. The burden on the working people has been increased. The Government is expecting an additional revenue of 75,000 crores through indirect taxes. The small income tax payers may get some relief. The Government is expecting Rs. 1.3 lakh crore from the direct tax. But it is not going to be materialized. It is only an assumption that there may be better growth. Though the prices of crude oil in the international 
 market have come down, the Government is depending on 
 revenue receipts on higher excise duty on petroleum 
 products. In the time of the UPA Government, the crude oil 
 price has gone up even 148 dollar per barrel sometime.It has come 
 down even to 30 dollar per barrel and has gone up again to 50 
 dollar per barrel. But the Government was not ready to 
 transfer the benefits to the common people. Every week the Government has been increasing it. For the last year Government  has increased excise duty 13 times of petrol and 12 times for diesel. In fact, you are really looting the people and the burden is on the common people. The Finance Minister has announced a housing scheme. It seems that it is an attractive scheme. In the name of 
 affordable housing, there is a danger behind this. There should be an exemption in the Land Acquisition Act ; concessions should also be given. At present, concession is given only to the builders and the corporates and not to the common people. While it looks like that this is a good scheme, at the same time, the benefits are going really to the builders and corporates and not to the common people. The proposal to reduce income tax for MSMEs with a 
 turnover of Rs.50 crore may also open up a new avenue 
 for corporate tax evasion. The reduction of income tax from 10 per cent to 5 per cent and 
 also the limit from Rs.2.5 to Rs.5 lakh would give some relief 
 to the middle class and the salaried people. It is true. But in order to 
 compensate the loss of revenue, Finance Minister has 
 imposed a surcharge of 10 per cent to the  income of Rs.50 lakh 
 up to Rs.1 crore and to the income above 1 crore, it is 15 per cent. Accordingly, the Budget proposals of 1.48 per cent  of the 
 total budgetary outlay is allocated for welfare of the STs – there is no increase -  and 2.44 per cent for the SCs. This is below the share of SCs and STs population and the amount under the General Budget is 
 only 5.3 per cent. Sir, the SCs population comes to about 16.6 per cent but the budget allocation is only 2.44 per cent; while the STs population comes about 8.6  per cent and the share of ST's is only 1.48. It is an injustice to the poor. It means that the Government is not paying any importance to the SCs and STs. The Prime      Minister           has announced   the demonetization on 8th November, 2017. Much discussion took place on this issue. Hence I do not want to go into the details due to shortage of time. We can see that almost all the eminent economists like Dr. Amartya Sen, former Reserve Bank Governors like Jagannathan, R.K. Raghavan have negated the proposal of the Prime Minister. I want to know on this issue because the RBI Governor said that he can’t say as to what is the black money that has come. The Finance Minister when we asked yesterday said, `we are the Marxists; we don’t know’. He was not ready to answer as to how much black money that has come. The Prime Minister was ready to answer while responding to the President’s Address. Whom can we ask about how much black money has come? Then, what was the need of the drastic step that the Government has taken. We are not against taking any action black money or fake notes. But you have to realise the fact, and you have to declare and state to the House as to whether this action was needed to bring back the black money. You have the Income Tax Department, you have the Vigilance Department, you have the Enforcement Directorate and you have CBI. Why could you not use all these departments that you have done now? It is said that there is huge black money in the country. But you can take that even without demonetization. So we need an answer from the Government on this issue. Sir, it is after 92 years that the Railway Budget is merged with the General Budget. Our Railway Minister is here. The decision to merge the Railway Budget with the General Budget has really diminished the importance of the Indian Railways and also the discussion in Parliament. The significance of the Indian Railways and the discussion in the House has really gone. Kerala has been neglected for long time as far as railway development is concerned. I do not want to go into the details. We have given a number of suggestions which need due consideration. More funds has to be earmarked for doubling, electrification, new lines, infrastructure facilities etc. 

          The House has to discuss the performance of public sector undertakings. This is a very serious issue. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Sir, we have decided in the BAC that there should not be any strict time limit because we are discussing the General Budget for two days. Sir, the public sector is really a very important sector in our country. What is the present position of our PSUs? I request the Government that there should be a discussion in the House on the performance of PSUs. In every Budget we see that PSUs are being disinvested. We know that in Kerala many PSUs are struggling due to lack of funds, whether it is HAL or KEL or HOCL or FACT. So what is the responsibility of the Government relating to PSUs? They have decided to sell the share of PSUs. That is not the solution as far as PSUs are concerned. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude now. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Sir, please allow me to say something about the concerns relating to the State of Kerala. We are suffering due to shortage of foodgrains. From 1965 onwards we have been implementing statutory rationing system. When the Food Security Act was passed, States like Kerala have suffered though it has a positive response in other parts of the country. We have pointed out this issue at the time of passing of the Food Security Bill in this House. Kerala and Tamil Nadu had been implementing a better Public Distribution System earlier. But when this Act was passed, we said that we should be exempted or we should get sufficient allocation of foodgrains. We have been getting 16.50 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains every month from the Centre earlier. Now we are getting only 14.50 lakh metric tonnes. So there is a shortage of 2 lakh metric tonnes. Therefore it is not possible for us to give ration to the targeted groups, BPL and APL families. Our Chief Minister has met the Prime Minister and also the Food Minister on this issue. So I request the Government to allocate sufficient foodgrains to Kerala. The other issue is regarding the cooperative sector. When demonetization was announced, there was a political motive on the part of the Government not to help the cooperative sector, because they said that black money is being deposited in cooperative banks. Now the Reserve Bank of India says that there is no black money in the cooperative sector. NABARD says that they are filing accounts in proper time. Then, what was the reason for restricting the cooperative banks from accepting deposits of demonetized currency notes? Actually the cooperative sector in Kerala is the lifeline of the people in almost all the fields. Even they are entering into the public market to control price rise. So, I request the Government to remove all the restrictions that have been imposed on cooperative banks. Sir, the Budget has not shown justice to the State of Kerala. We have been requesting for giving an AIIMS to the State of Kerala. I am not against giving AIIMS to Gujarat or Jharkhand. But we have been demanding for an AIIMS to Kerala. So, I request the Finance Minister to take a favourable decision on this issue. Sir, the Government of India is getting high foreign exchange from the NRIs, and 90 per cent of the NRIs are from Kerala. But there is no provision or package for the NRIs.  We have been taking up this issue concerning Kerala in the Budget. Especially, in the Gulf countries, there is recession.  A large number of people are returning back.  So, I would request the Government of India to take up this issue and do something for them. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Now, please conclude.  You have already taken more than your allotted time. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN :  Yes, Sir. I am concluding within two minutes. The allocation of Budget proposal in the plantation area is disappointing.  There is no increase in allocation in many of the sectors.  Earlier, in the plantation sector, it was Rs. 403 crore and now, it is Rs. 434 crore only.  The Rubber Board had earlier Rs. 152 crore and now, it is just Rs. 160 crore.  Similarly, the Coffee Board had earlier Rs. 141 crore and now, it is Rs. 140 croe, even reduced. The Spices Board has got only Rs. 82 crore.  Traditional industries like coir, cashew, bidi, khadi, etc., have not got any incentive in this Budget. Thousands of workers and agents are getting employment in Government lotteries.  We, all the MPs form Kerala,  met the hon. Finance Minister yesterday. The Karuniya Scheme was implemented to give assistance to the poor people.  Due to demonetization,  their income has reduced to Rs. 358 crore. It does not matter, but when the Service Tax is implemented, it becomes difficult for them to run the lotteries.   We request to, at least, exempt the Government-run lotteries if not other private lotteries.  I hope, the hon. Finance Minister would be kind enough to take up this issue in a positive way. Sir, the Finance Minister of Kerala has made it clear that there is a revenue loss of Rs. 3000 crore to Rs. 4,000 crore to the State due demonetization. So, the Government of Kerala has requested for Rs. 10,000 crore   assistance.  So, I would request the Union Government to help our State otherwise, it would not be possible for our State to run. Sir, I am on my last point.  The Government has made a number of suggestions with regard to our women friends.  I fully appreciate that they are going to give Rs. 6,000 to a pregnant woman. There are many such schemes for women.  But here, I would like to know from the Government that  when the Rajya Sabha has already passed the Women’s Reservation Bill, why is it not ready to bring the Bill here in this House.  We, the CPM and other Opposition parties, are ready to give all support for the passage of the Bill. It is not just the question of their giving suggestions.  It is not the question of just giving them bread and milk. At the same time, the women have to be taken into the mainstream.  They should also be there in the decision-making bodies like Parliament, Legislative Assemblies, etc. 

          So, I would like to know from the Government whether they are ready to bring the Women’s Reservation Bill in this House. Kindly bring it, and we will fully support it.  At any cast, we are ready to give our support for the passage of this Bill. With these few words, I conclude.  Thank you. SHRI P.V. MIDHUN REDDY ( RAJAMPET ): Hon. Chairman Sir, the  Budget  Speech of the hon. Finance Minister is full of optimism but the figures give a completely different picture for our State of Andhra Pradesh. There is no mention of our getting Special Category Status, which we have been demanding for a long time. Nor there is any mention about the railway zone, which was promised for Andhra Pradesh in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act.  There is also no mention of the steel plant, which is to be set-up in Kadapa. There is no mention of Petro Corridor. Sir, all these things, which had been promised in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act , should be   fulfilled by the Government. But there is not much happening towards our State. Sir, we would also like to know from the Government. What is that the Centre is willing to give for Polavaram Project, as it had been promised to construct Polavaram Project completely. It is a national project.  There are two conflicting news coming. The State Government is claiming a figure, which is different than what the Centre is saying. The Central Government is saying that it is Rs. 16,000 crore whereas the State is claiming that it is more than Rs. 30,000 crore.  So, we would like the hon. Minister to say as to what the Centre is actually going to give for the Polavaram Project. Similarly, the setting up of a steel plant in Kadapa is very important.  We would request the Government to consider it because it is going to create employment for the Rayalaseema Region. Sir, we are also hearing a conflicting view about the setting up of a railway zone.  We had heard that one of the Ministers said that railway zone was going to be a reality soon, but recently we have heard somebody saying that a Committee is going to be set-up. organisation Act clearly states that the Railway zone will be set up.  It does not say that it might be considered or a Committee will be set up.  So, we want the Government to adhere to their promises made.  The ‘special category’ status was promised everywhere by the NDA Government.  It was promised in the public meetings; it was promised in their manifesto; it was promised on the floor of the House; we want the Government to give special status to Andhra Pradesh as it was promised. We have seen the hon. Prime Minister bow down his head before getting into the Parliament.  We expect the same to be followed by the NDA Government in true letter and spirit and give special status to Andhra Pradesh.  As people say our Parliament as temple of democracy and if words given on the Floor of Parliament are not honoured the people’s confidence on this Institution will be on the wane. Sir, the hon. Finance Minister presented his fourth Budget for the Financial Year 2017-18 with an outlay of Rs. 21.47 lakh crore as against the Revised Estimate of Rs. 20.14 lakh crores.  This is a meagre increase of only 6.6 per cent, one of the lowest in recent times. If the growth rate in total Budget expenditure is going to come down to 6.6 per cent against 12.3 per cent of the previous year, how are we going to maintain the seven per cent growth?  This is my question. What is even more surprising is that the revenue receipts projected for 2017-18 are projected to grow only by just 5.5 per cent over the Revised Estimates of 2016-17.  This 5.5 per cent is very low.  If you compare 2016-17 and 2015-16, it grew by 19 per cent.  When revenue receipts are expected at 5.5 per cent, how do you expect the economy to grow at seven per cent?  Should we attribute this to the demonetisation which the Government undertook recently or should we attribute this to various other factors?  The hon. Minister should give a clear indication because nothing was mentioned in the Budget as to why the revenue receipts have gone down so steeply. The capital expenditure of the Union Government, for the nine months period of the current fiscal, say from April to December, 2016, fell to Rs. 1,09,131 crore from Rs. 1,15,322 crore.  If the Capex expenditure is going to come down year on year, how is the GDP going to grow at seven per cent?  The project growth of 17 per cent over Revised Estimates is the estimation in the Budget.  We would like to know as to what will be the actual Capex. The Budget expresses an aspiration to double the farmers’ incomes.  I would really like to understand as to how it is going to happen.  It is because if the farmers’ incomes have to double in five year, there should be an annual growth of 20 per cent in MSP.  After the NDA has come to power, the MSP for the farmers has been increasing with an average of three per cent per annum whereas the inflation rate is five per cent.  That means, it is a negative growth of two per cent year on year.  The farmers are suffering very badly because of the unprecedented drought and various floods.  The farmers are in great distress throughout the country.  The MSP, especially for wheat and paddy, on an average has increased only up to three per cent.  If you see for cash crops like cotton the average MSP, after the NDA has come to power, has increased only up to one per cent.  How do you expect 20 per cent growth with such a low MSP?  We demand the Government to give the MSP at 10 per cent plus the inflation.  Even these figures are not going to be sufficient for 20 per cent growth in the farmers’ incomes. Sir, I would like to bring to your notice that recently I have seen in the media that NDA Government has announced loan waiver for Uttar Pradesh farmers.  Since the Government has got substantial gains because of the fall in crude prices, I request the Central Government to consider this loan waiver for all the distressed farmers throughout the country.  We would appreciate it.  We also request the Government to reconsider this MSP because this MSP is very low and if such is the case and it is going to continue, it is going to kill the farmers completely. The target of Rs. 10 lakh crore for agriculture credit for 2017-18 is not even 10 per cent increase because of the fact that the total outstanding loans on agriculture and allied sectors was only Rs. 9.11 lakh crore as on 25 November, 2016.  So the amount of Rs. 10 lakh crore, which the Government has promised, is not sufficient.  Even when it comes to Budget allocation for agriculture and allied activities, it is Rs. 58,663 crore as against Rs. 52,821 crore Revised Estimates for 2016-17.  Even this will not be helpful in increasing the income of the farmers to 20 per cent level so that they are going to double their income in the coming five years. The Government fixed a target of Rs. 2.4 lakh crore for Mudra Bank funding to unorganised sector.  This is a welcome move.  We appreciate the Government.  The Government should take steps and see how the banks are actually performing         . Next to agriculture, the manufacturing sector plays a very important role for our country.  Unfortunately, despite laying so much emphasis on Make in India programme, there has been a sharp fall in manufacturing sector.  This is certainly not good news for us.  The Index of Industrial Production published every month by the Central Statistical Organisation for the all-important manufacturing sector was 183.5 for the month of May, 2014 and the same has come down to 181.2 for the month of November, 2016 with only intermittent changes in between.  This means that virtually the graph has been flat for the past two-and-a-half years despite of so much emphasis on Make in India.  The Government should rethink its strategy and work out ways to improve the manufacturing sector; otherwise we cannot expect the economy to grow as the Government is projecting. Another worrying factor is the declining trend in Gross Fixed Capital formation and job creation.  As per CSO, Gross Fixed Capital Formation, a very important measure of investment trend in the economy at constant (2011-12) prices, is estimated at Rs. 35.35 lakh crore in 2016-17 as against Rs. 35.41 lakh crore in 2015-16.  This is registering a negative growth of minus 0.2 per cent. The data released by the Government on 20th July, 2016 shows that textiles, leather, metals, automobiles, gems and jewellery, transport, information technology, and the handloom sectors together created just 1,35,000 jobs.  This is very less which is the lowest in the last seven years.  Even the rural wage growth was already zero even before demonetisation. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude. SHRI P.V. MIDHUN REDDY : Sir, I would like to conclude but before that I would like to put forth a few points. This is my personal opinion. What is the purpose of Government’s projecting that we are growing at the rate of seven per cent and what is the purpose of saying that we are controlling the current deficit when the farmers in our country are committing suicides?  The Government should act and help the farmers.  When the farmers are happy, the Government is happy.  That is the principle we should understand. Sir, I would like to say that there is only one more budget left for the Government and it is time for the Government to make course correction.  It is because, especially Andhra Pradesh has been at the receiving end.  We have seen how the Congress was at the receiving end for dividing our State.  If the promises made on the floor of the House are not kept, the NDA, for sure, is going to be at the receiving end.  We request and plead with the Government to help our State. Thank you very much. श्री धनंजय महाडीक ( कोल्हापुर ): सभापति महोदय, डिमोनिटाइजेशन के बाद यह पहला बजट है। देश की जनता को बहुत सारी अपेक्षाएं इस बजट से थीं। मुझे लगता है कि यह बजट अप टु दि मार्क नहीं था, मैं थोड़ी सी सरकार की सराहना भी करना चाहता हूं क्योंकि इस बजट में उन्होंने ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था को मजबूत बनाने की कोशिश की है, इफ्रास्ट्रक्चर रोड, हेल्थ, मिल्क इंडस्ट्री, युवा व महिला और डिजीटल कनेक्टिविटी की बात बहुत अच्छे से की गई है। इंडीविज्युअल के लिए इनकम टैक्स में साढ़े बारह हजार की राहत दी है। कुल मिलाकर हम यह कह सकते हैं कि "कहीं खुशी कहीं गम" है। यह भी कह सकते हैं कि थोड़े और की जरूरत है। दुनिया का गरीब से गरीब आदमी जो झोपड़ी में रहता है या अमीर करोड़पति या अरबपति हो, जो महलों में रहता है, उसे दो वक्त की रोटी की जरूरत होती है। जो किसान अनाज पैदा करता है, उसे इस बजट से कोई राहत मिलती नजर नहीं आ रही है। बजट में किसानों के लिए दस लाख करोड़ रुपए ऋण की बात की गई है, घोषणा की गई है। एक लाख करोड़ रुपया माइक्रे इर्रीगेशन के लिए एलॉट किया गया है। कल ही मैंने स्टार्ड प्रश्न कृषि मंत्री जी से पूछा था कि देश में 2014 और 2015 में कितने किसानों ने आत्महत्या की है। जवाब मिला कि 2014 में 5650 किसानों ने आत्महत्या की और 2015 में यह संख्या बढ़कर 8007 हो चुकी है। इसका मतलब है कि तकरीबन 41 प्रतिशत वृद्धि किसानों की आत्महत्या में हुई है। इसका कारण किसानों का दिवालियापन और ऋणग्रस्तता बताया गया है। महाराष्ट्र में हालात और भी बदतर है, क्योंकि पिछले दो-तीन साल से सूखे के कारण किसान संकट में हैं। इसके ऊपर सरकार ने और दस लाख ऋण की बात कही है। हमें समझना होगा कि कर्ज की वजह से किसान आत्महत्या करते हैं, क्योंकि उनको जो सब्सिडी दी जा रही है, उनके हाथ में नहीं दी जाती है। फर्टीलाइजर में जो सब्सिडी सरकार देती है, वह सब्सिडी फर्टीलाइजर इंडस्ट्री को दी जाती है। ड्रिप इर्रीगेशन होता है, माइक्रो इर्रीगेशन में जो सब्सिडी दी जाती है, उस सब्सिडी का लाभ इंडस्ट्री को मिलता है। एमएसईबी के बिजली के बिल में उनको जो कटौती दी जाती है या सब्सिडी दी जाती है, वह भी एमएसईबी को ही जाती है। इसका मतलब है कि कुल मिलाकर किसानों के हाथ में इसका कुछ भी फायदा नहीं आता है। सभापति जी, क्रॉप इंश्योरेंस की बात हुई है। क्रॉप इंश्योरेंस उसी का होता है जो बैंक से लोन लेता है। इसका मतलब है कि जब भी नैसर्गिक विपदा आएगी तो लाभ बैंक को होगा। बैंकों को मजबूत करने वाला यह बजट है, ऐसा हमें लगता है। नैसर्गिक विपदा की वजह से पिछले तीन सालों से किसान सकते में हैं, परेशान हैं। मुझे लगता है ऐसी स्थिति में किसानों को माइक्रो इर्रीगेशन के लिए 100 प्रतिशत सब्सिडी दी जानी चाहिए। सभापति जी, हमारा देश क्रॉप फील्ड में सिर्फ 40 परसेंट सफल है। मैं समझ नहीं पा रहा हूं कि हम 100 प्रतिशत क्रॉप फील्ड में सफल क्यों नहीं हैं। एमएसपी की बात लगभग सभी सांसदों ने कही है और यह बात कई सालों से चलती आ रही है, लेकिन आज तक हम किसी कन्कलूजन पर नहीं आ पाए हैं। फसल के लिए मिनिमम गारंटी होनी जरूरी है, मैं इसके लिए मंत्री जी से आग्रह भी करता हूं। किसान को जो सब्सिडी दी जाती है, वह डायरेक्ट मिलनी चाहिए, न कि और कंपनियों को मिलनी चाहिए। क्रॉप इंश्योरेंस भी किसान को मिलनी चाहिए, क्योंकि वह अपनी मेहनत से, पसीने से सिंचाई करता है इसलिए उसे इसका लाभ मिलना चाहिए। सभापति जी, शुगर और कोआपरेटिव इंडस्ट्री के बारे में बजट में कोई बात नहीं हुई है। पिछले तीन साल से शुगर इंडस्ट्री सकते में है। हम माननीय मंत्री जी से मिले थे, हमने शुगर इंडस्ट्री के लिए लोन वेवर नहीं मांगा था। हमने सिर्फ जो लोन कोआपरेटिव सैक्टर में है, उसके रिशैडय़ूलिंग की बात कही थी। अब तकरीबन 50-60 परसेंट फैक्ट्रियां बंद हैं, ये वर्कर्स की सैलरी नहीं दे पा रही हैं। एफआरपी बंधन की वजह से बाहर से लोन लिया है, इसलिए सभी इंडस्ट्रीज़ परेशान हैं। मिल्क और शुगर इंडस्ट्री डिमोनेटाइजेशन की वजह से बहुत तकलीफ में आ चुकी हैं। इस बारे में भी कदम उठाने की जरूरत है। अगर किसानों को राहत देनी है तो पूरा कर्जा माफ करना ही सॉल्यूशन हो सकता है, ऐसा मैं समझता हूं। सभापति जी, स्माल स्केल इंडस्ट्री में सरकार की गारंटी एक से दो करोड़ की गई है, यह अच्छी बात है। सबसे बड़ा मसला है कि पिछले दो-तीन साल से सभी स्माल स्केल इंडस्ट्री रिसेशन में चल रही हैं। इसका बहुत बड़ा कारण यह है कि एमएसईबी की बिजली के रेट बढ़ते जा रहे हैं। अगर हमें इन इंडस्ट्रीज़ को सही अवस्था में लाना है तो इलैक्ट्रिसिटी में थोड़ी-बहुत रियायत देनी पड़ेगी तभी ये इंडस्ट्रीज़ जिंदा रह पाएंगी। देश में नैसेर्गिक विपदा की वजह से एग्रो बेस्ड इंडस्ट्रीज़ भी नहीं बढ़ रही हैं। स्मॉल स्केल इंडस्ट्री भी ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में नहीं बढ़ रही है। इसकी वजह से परिणाम यह हो रहा है कि जॉब गारंटी बंद हो चुकी है, जॉब क्रिएशन बंद हो चुका है। हर साल श्रम बाजार मे तकरीबन एक करोड़ नौजवान नौकरी के लिए आते हैं। लेकिन सर्वे के अनुसार सिर्फ 1 लाख 3 हजार लोगों को ही नौकरी मिलती है। इस बारे में बजट में कोई प्रोविजन नहीं किया गया है। ...(व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय,  मंत्री जी ने हाउसिंग में बहुत अच्छा प्रावधान किया है, लेकिन मैं इसमें दो-तीन चीजें कहना चाहूंगा। प्राइवेट कम्पनियों का टैक्स घटाकर 25 परसेंट कर दिया गया है, जो बहुत अच्छी बात है। लेकिन जो प्राइवेट लिमिटेड कम्पनियां हैं या फिर एलएलपी हैं, उनमें भी इनकम टैक्स 25 परसेंट करने की जरूरत है, क्योंकि ये सभी एक ही सैक्टर के अंडर आते हैं। अगर हमें लोगों को इनकम टैक्स के दायरे में लाना है, तो इसे देखने की जरूरत है। सभापति महोदय, कंस्ट्रक्शन लाइन और डेवलेपर्स के बारे में एक नयी सूचना दी गयी है। अगर किसी बिल्डर ने 50 फ्लैट्स बनाये हैं और उनमें से वह अगर 25 फ्लैट्स बेचता है और 25 फ्लैट्स का कम्पलीशन लेता है, तो उसने वे 25 फ्लैट्स रेंट पर दिये, यह समझकर सारे रेंट का टैक्स उस पर लगेगा। यह बहुत गलत बात है, क्योंकि जब तक उसके पूरे फ्लैट्स की बिक्री नहीं होगी, तब तक वह इनकम टैक्स नहीं भर पायेगा। ...(व्यवधान) इस बारे में भी आपको सोचने की जरूरत है। सभापति महोदय, हाउसिंग लोन और सैकिंड होम का जो प्रोविजन था, जिसमें दो लाख रुपये के इंटरैस्ट पर रिबेट मिलती थी, वह भी बंद कर दी गयी है। अगर कोई व्यक्ति दूसरा घर लेता है, तो पहले जैसा था, वैसे ही उसे दो लाख रुपये के इंटरैस्ट पर रिबेट मिलनी चाहिए। सभापति महोदय, यहां पर डिमॉनेटाइजेशन के बारे में बहुत बात हुई। हमारे अध्यक्ष पवार साहब ने भी इसकी सराहना की है। हम आपके साथ हैं, लेकिन इसमें ब्लैकमनी कितनी जमा हुई, उसकी कोई घोषणा आज तक नहीं हो पायी है। हमारा देश बड़ा है और यहां 125 करोड़ लोग रहते हैं। अगर हम ओलम्पिक में कोई मैडल नहीं लाते, तो उसकी सब लोग आलोचना करते हैं, लेकिन ओलम्पिक में मैडल लाने के लिए किसी फैक्टरी में लोग नहीं बनते। जब बच्चा छोटा होता है, छः साल का होता है, तब से उसे तैयार करने की जरूरत होती है। इसके लिए हमें स्पोर्ट्स बजट में भी कोई प्रोविजन नजर नहीं आ रहा है। आपको इस तरफ भी ध्यान देने की जरूरत है। सभापति महोदय, एमपीलैड बढ़ाने की बात सब सांसदों ने की है। एमपीलैड भी 25 करोड़ रुपये करने की जरूरत है। नये डैम्स, नये कालेजेज और नये हास्पिटल्स की कोई घोषणा नहीं की गयी। सिर्फ ‘एम्स’ के दो हास्पिटल्स गुजरात और झारखंड में दिये गये हैं। मेरा कहना है कि नये हास्पिटल्स देने की भी जरूरत है। मेरा लास्ट प्वाइंट है कि महाराष्ट्र में भी इन्हीं की सरकार है। स्टेट गवर्नमैंट ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों के अंदर रोड्स बनाने के लिए एम.पीज. को कोई बजट नहीं देती। मैं आपके माध्यम से मंत्री जी से गुजारिश करना चाहूंगा कि आप इसमें थोड़ा सा ध्यान दें। महाराष्ट्र में 25-15 स्कीम है, उसके तहत ग्रामीण क्षेत्र के छोटे-छोटे गांवों में भी रोड्स बनाने के लिए एम.पीज. को फंड दिया जाये। सभापति महोदय, मैं इन सब बातों पर मंत्री जी का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहूंगा। धन्यवाद। श्री शरद त्रिपाठी ( संत कबीर नगर ):  सभापति महोदय, देश की आजादी से लेकर अब तक बहुत सारे बजट इस देश की व्यवस्था के संचालन के लिए प्रस्तुत किये गये हैं। लेकिन आज यह जो बजट सत्र चल रहा है, उसका अपना एक इतिहास लिखा जायेगा।   हम वर्ष 1924 से लेकर वर्ष 2016 तक एक परम्परा की नकल करते चले आ रहे थे। मैं उत्तर प्रदेश से चुनकर आता हूं। उत्तर प्रदेश के सांसद, जो देश के प्रधान मंत्री भी हैं, मेरा सौभाग्य है कि मैं उस प्रधान मंत्री जी के कार्यकाल में इतिहास के इस क्षण का साक्षी हूं और इस ऐतिहासिक बजट का भी साक्षी हूं। अगर विकास के आधार को देखा जाये, तो यह बजट उसके अनुरूप हो सकता है। हमारे विपक्ष के साथियों के लिए यह आईना हो, लेकिन विकास के आधार पर देखा जाये, तो यह देश का दर्पण भी है। इस दर्पण को ऐतिहासिक बनाने का काम हमारे आदरणीय वित्त मंत्री जेटली जी ने किया। बजट का अपना इतिहास रहा है, राजतंत्र से लेकर लोकतंत्र तक।  अब तक जो भी बजट लाए गए, निश्चित रूप से जब राजतंत्र रहा तो वह प्रजा की खुशहाली के लिए आया, कुछ अच्छे राजा भी हुए हैं, जिनका इतिहास आज अमिट है। लोकतंत्र में आज जनता का शासन है, जनता के लिए और जनता द्वारा है, उसके आधार पर राजा का चुनाव हो रहा है, उसके आधार पर आज यह बजट लाया गया है। कल चर्चा हो रही थी कि यह सूट-बूट की सरकार है। इस पर चर्चा वे लोग कर रहे थे, जो सूटकेस की सरकार चलाते थे। सूटकेस वाले आज सूट-बूट की सरकार के मुखिया के ऊपर आज इसलिए कमेंट्स कर रहे हैं, क्योंकि आजादी के बाद आज एक गरीब का बेटा देश की बागडोर संभाल रहा है। क्या गरीब के बेटे को सूट पहनने का अधिकार नहीं होना चाहिए। अगर गरीब का बेटा सूट पहनकर विदेश में इस देश के सम्मान को बढ़ाता है तो इस पर भी इनको पीड़ा होती है। काश, उसी प्रधानमंत्री के अन्य क्रियाकलापों की भी यहां चर्चा करते। जिस प्रधानमंत्री ने अपने वेतन को...(व्यवधान) वह प्रधानमंत्री अपना पूरा खर्च अपने व्यक्तिगत वेतन से उठाता है। वह प्रधानमंत्री, जो आज पूरी दुनिया में सम्मान से देखा जा रहा है, उस प्रधानमंत्री के लिए आज सूट-बूट की बात कही जाती है क्योंकि महलों वाले लोग झोपड़ी वालों के दर्द को क्या जानें। मैं उत्तर प्रदेश से चुनकर आता हूं। उत्तर प्रदेश इस देश की दशा और दिशा का आवाहक रहा है। उत्तर प्रदेश सौभाग्यशाली है कि उसने देश को कई प्रधानमंत्री दिए हैं, देश का पहला प्रधानमंत्री भी दिया है और आज ऐतिहासिक प्रधानमंत्री भी दिया है। ऐतिहासिक प्रधानमंत्री मैं इसलिए कहना चाहूंगा कि अब तक जितनी भी सरकारें आई हैं, सबसे मूलभूत आवश्यकता स्वास्थ्य, शिक्षा और आवास होती है। स्वास्थ्य के आधार पर देखा जाए तो हमारे शास्त्रों में भी कहा गया है कि "शरीर माध्यम खलु धर्म साधनम्, " अर्थात शरीर के द्वारा ही संसार के सभी धर्मों की पूर्ति होती है। शरीर अगर स्वस्थ है तो मन स्वस्थ है और स्वस्थ मन से ही हम स्वस्थ कार्य कर सकते हैं। आजादी के बाद इस देश में स्वास्थ्य को ठीक करने के लिए सबसे अधिक एम्स की स्थापना अगर किसी सरकार ने की, या तो वह अटल जी की सरकार रही या हमारी वर्तमान सरकार ने की है। अटल जी की सरकार में कुल 11 एम्स बनाए जा चुके हैं। वर्तमान सरकार में भी अब तक झारखण्ड एवं गुजरात में एम्स बनाए गए हैं। मैं सौभाग्यशाली हूं, मैं उत्तर प्रदेश से चुनकर आता हूं, उत्तर प्रदेश में भी आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने एम्स की स्थापना करवाई है। उत्तर प्रदेश में जहां यह एम्स बन रहा है, उससे सटा हुआ बिहार राज्य है और नेपाल भी उससे सटा हुआ है। इससे प्रत्यक्ष रूप से नेपाल के लगभग 40 लाख लोग लाभान्वित हो रहे हैं। एम्स बना गोरखपुर में और जश्न मनाया गया नेपाल में। बिहार भी उससे सटा हुआ है। पूरे देश का वह एक पैमाना बना कि 11वां एम्स हमारे गोरखपुर जनपद में बना है। यहां विदेश नीति की बात की जाती है। अगर विदेश नीति के आधार पर देखा जाए तो उसे प्रगाढ़ता देने का काम उत्तर प्रदेश में गोरखपुर में बनने वाला एम्स कर रहा है, जिसकी स्थापना हमारे आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने करवाई। यह अपने आप में एक बड़ा उदाहरण है। टैक्नीकल कॉलेज की बात मैं करना चाहूंगा। टैक्नीकल कॉलेज के पहले शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य और रोजगार मूलभूत आवश्यकता है। रोजगार के आधार पर यदि देखा जाए तो मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि मैं उत्तर प्रदेश से आता हूं और यू.पी. में गोरखपुर का रहने वाला हूं। गोरखपुर में खाद का कारखाना विगत 20 वर्षों से बंद पड़ा हुआ है। 20 वर्षों से किसी ने सुध नहीं ली। हमारी जब एन.डी.ए. की सरकार थी, उस समय उसकी फाइल चली थी, लेकिन वर्तमान सरकार के मुखिया आदरणीय नरेन्द्र भाई मोदी जी ने ही केवल उसकी सुध ली। उन्होंने केवल उसकी सुध ही नही ली, बल्कि उसकी पूरी व्यवस्था करके उसके शिलान्यास की कार्रवाई की और आज वह संचालन के कगार पर खड़ा है। इससे बेरोजगारी दूर करने की बात यदि की जाए तो इसमें कुल 4000 कर्मचारी समाहित होंगे। उन 4000 कर्मचारियों में से अगर एक परिवार का एक लड़का भी वहां नौकरी पाएगा तो वह 10 लोगों को अपने परिवार में रोटी देगा। अगर उसको हम पूरा मल्टीप्लाइ करते हैं तो लगभग 4 लाख लोग अकेले पूर्वी यू.पी. से लोग आज लाभान्वित होने जा रहे हैं। आज यह देश का बजट है। अगर आंकड़ों के आधार पर देखा जाए तो निश्चित रूप से विपक्ष इसलिए होता है कि आलोचनाओं को करना ही है, नहीं तो अगर आलोचना नहीं करेंगे तो कैसे विपक्ष का प्रतिरूप यहां पर स्थापित करेंगे। फिर भी अगर स्वस्थ दिमाग से इसकी चर्चा की जाए तो कहीं से भी कोई आधार नहीं बनता है। मैं देश के सबसे बड़े प्रदेश उत्तर प्रदेश से आता हूं और उत्तर प्रदेश आबादी के हिसाब से सबसे बड़ा प्रदेश है। विगत 15 वर्षों से वहां की स्थानीय सरकार, जो क्षेत्रीय पार्टी की है और अभी जो सरकार काम कर रही है, क्षेत्रीय पार्टी के मुखिया को कांग्रेस का भी साथ है और युवा मुख्य मंत्री और युवराज की जोड़ी आज पूरे उत्तर प्रदेश में चर्चित है। जब बजट की बात की जाती है तो सबसे पहले कौशल विकास की मैं बात करना चाहूंगा। कौशल विकास के तहत, जिसमें रोजगार नौजवानों के लिए अब तक केवल शिक्षण की व्यवस्था थी और  प्रशिक्षण की व्यवस्था नहीं थी। हमारी वर्तमान सरकार ने कौशल विकास योजना के आधार पर शिक्षण के साथ-साथ प्रशिक्षण की भी व्यवस्था की। सभापति महोदय, मुझे कृपा करके अपनी पूरी बात कह लेने दीजिए। चूंकि उत्तर प्रदेश सबसे बड़ा प्रदेश है और वहां से मैं चुनकर आता हूं। मैं देश को जानकारी देना चाहता हूं कि उत्तर प्रदेश जो दिशा और दशा तय करता था, उस उत्तर प्रदेश के युवा मुख्य मंत्री ने आज वहां के युवाओं के लिए क्या किया है। हमारी सरकार ने लगभग 13000 रु. प्रति युवा का आज अपने बजट में समायोजन किया है कि उनको हम पूरी कुशलता का सर्टिफिकेट देंगे। कुशलता का सर्टिफिकेट लेकर चाहे वे नाई की दुकान खोलते हैं, चाहे वे मोबाइल या टी.वी. की दुकान खोलते हैं या कोई अपना छोटा उद्योग लगाते हैं, शिक्षण-प्रशिक्षण के आधार पर हमारी सरकार मुद्रा बैंक योजना चला रही है। मुद्रा बैंक योजना के आधार पर यदि देखा जाए तो 50000 से लेकर तरुण, युवा और शिशु  में 50000, 5 लाख और 10 लाख ...(व्यवधान) सभापति जी, मेरी पूरी बात तो हो जाने दीजिए। उत्तर प्रदेश में युवाओं की सरकार है और यहां जो बैठे हुए हमारे विपक्ष के भाई हैं, उनके युवराज भी उनके साथ हैं। अभी तो मैंने अपनी बात कहनी शुरु की है, यदि आप मुझे पूरा समय देते तो मैं बताता क्योंकि मेरे पास पूरा डेटा है। ...(व्यवधान) HON CHAIRMAN :  Please conclude. I have a long list of speakers. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद त्रिपाठी : सभापति जी, स्थिति यह है कि संत कबीर नगर, जहां से मैं निर्वाचित होकर आता हूं। एक उदाहरण देना चाहूंगा। हमारी सरकार ने युवाओं को प्रशिक्षित करने के लिए 13000 रुपये प्रति युवा का बजट दिया और आश्चर्य होता है, मैं एक जिले का उदाहरण आपको देना चाहूंगा कि उस जिले में पिछले वर्ष का जब मैंने डेटा निकलवाया, तो 3000 लोगों को प्रशिक्षण देने का पैसा गया था। प्रशिक्षण देने का पैसा गया था, लेकिन खेद का विषय है कि 283 लोगों का केवल रजिस्ट्रेशन किया गया था। प्रशिक्षण की बात तो दूर की थी। इस आधार पर 75 जिलों की जरा तुलना कर डालिए। यह युवा मुख्य मंत्री की देन है। युवाओं की नौकरियों के साथ कितना क्रूर मजाक किया गया, यह बात इसी से साबित होती है कि आज उत्तर प्रदेश में कोर्ट को हस्तक्षेप करना पड़ा। वहां पुलिस भर्ती होती है। केवल चार जिलों से 32,000 लोगों में से 28,000 लोग काबिल निकलते हैं। हाई कोर्ट यह देख कर कहता है कि यह तो सीधे-सीधे अन्याय किया गया है। उत्तर प्रदेश के अन्य 75 जिलों के लोगों का क्या गुनाह था, इसलिए कि वे विशेष जिले के नहीं थे, जो मुख्य मंत्री जी द्वारा पोषित जिले नहीं थे। जब 28,000 लोगों की नौकरी चार जिलों की दिखाई देती है तो कोर्ट उसे खारिज करता है।उत्तर प्रदेश में टीजीटी घोटाला होता है, बजट में उसका भी प्रावधान था। हमारी सरकार ने संपूर्ण खाद्य सुरक्षा बिल को सर्वाधिक पैसा दिया है, लेकिन उसकी धज्जियां उड़ाई गयीं, उसके आधार पर देखा जाए तो आज केवल उत्तर प्रदेश में 2,03,11,000 राशन कार्ड्स निरस्त करने पड़े। जो राशन माफियाओं के द्वारा, वहां के ...* द्वारा पोषित और पल्लवित थे। अधिष्ठाता महोदय, पहली बार देश की किसी सरकार ने कैम्पा बिल लाया। कैम्पा बिल के आधार पर देखा जाए तो सबसे अधिक खनन घोटाला उत्तर प्रदेश में हुआ है। अगर खनन घोटाला नहीं होता तो फैक्ट्रियों के निर्माण के लिए, भारत सरकार पर्यावरण को बचाने के लिए प्रयास करती। मैं अपने माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी और वित्त मंत्री जी को बधाई देना चाहूंगा कि भारत सरकार ने, पूरे विश्व के देशों का जेनेवा में जो सम्मेलन हुआ, 152 देशों ने सतत् विकास योजना के आधार पर...(व्यवधान) महोदय, अभी तीन बिन्दु रह गये हैं। सतत विकास योजना के आधार पर धज्जियां उड़ाई गयीं। खनन माफियाओं के आधार पर देखा जाए तो कैम्पा बिल, जहां पर जितने भी जंगल काटे गये, उस स्थान पर पर्यावरण को सुरक्षित करने के लिए, जिस पर पूरे विश्व में सबसे पहले हमारी सरकार ने निर्णय ले कर, सतत विकास योजना में 17 बिन्दुओं को मान्यता दी। वहां पेड़ लगाने की बात थी तो वहां की राजनीति देख लीजिए। पेड़ लगाने के लिए 36,000 करोड़ रू. में से 4,000 करोड़ रू. केवल उत्तर प्रदेश सरकार को दिया जाता है और वहां के युवा मुख्यमंत्री जी गिनीज वर्ल्ड बुक में अपना नाम लिखवा लेते हैं, 500 करोड़ रूपया भारत सरकार ने दिया है। हमें खुशी है कि उन्होंने काम करवाए, लेकिन आज प्रदेश और देश की आधार योजनाओं का वर्गीकरण नहीं किया जाये। आज भारत सरकार द्वारा 53 योजनायें चलायी जा रही हैं। हमारी सरकार ने ’उज्जवला योजना’ के तहत 53,11,938 गरीब परिवारों को लाभ दिया है। जो परिवार कभी सपने में भी नहीं सोच सकते थे कि उनके घर में एलपीजी का कनेक्शन और चूल्हा मिल पायेगा, उन्हें हमारी सरकार ने यह दिया है। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति :  अब आप कनक्लूड करें। श्री शरद त्रिपाठी : हमने मजहब, जाति और धर्म को आधार नहीं बनाया है। हम लोगों ने हमेशा हिन्दुस्तानी को आधार बनाया है। हिन्दुस्तान के जो व्यक्ति गरीब हैं, उनको लाभ मिलना चाहिए। हम लोगों ने वोट की राजनीति नहीं की, हम लोगों ने देश की राजनीति की। अभी एक आदरणीय वक्ता यहां बोल रहे थे तो उधर से आवाज आयी।...(व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : आप अपनी बात शुरू करें। …( व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : बीजेपी वक्ताओं की लंबी लिस्ट है। श्री मोहम्मद असरारुल हक़ ( किशनगंज ) :  मोहतरम सदर साहब, सबसे पहले मैं आपका शुक्रिया अदा करता हूं कि आपने मुझे आम बजट, 2017-18 पर बोलने का मौका दिया है। इस बार का बजट सिर्फ इस ऐतबार से अनोखा बजट है कि इस बार जनरल बजट में रेल बजट को भी ज़मा कर दिया गया है। इसके अलावा इस बजट में आम लोगों को राहत पहुंचाने के ऐतबार से कुछ भी अनोखा नहीं है। हम इसके खिलाफ नहीं है, लेकिन हमारा ख्याल है कि रेलवे को आम बजट का हिस्सा बना कर जहां उसकी एक अलाहदा और जुदागाना हैसियत को खत्म करने की कोशिश की गयी है, वहीं बुलेट ट्रेन और दीगर मनसूबों के हवाले से जवाबदेही से बचने के लिए यह कदम उठाया गया है। रेल के मामलात को सिर्फ छः मिनट में पेश कर दिया गया और मुझे अफसोस है कि बिहार को इसमें पूरी तरह से नजरअंदाज कर दिया गया है। पांच रियासतों के इलेक्शन को सामने रखते हुए जिस जल्दबाजी से काम लिया गया है, उसे मुल्क और मुल्क के बाशिंदे खूब समझते हैं। मोहतरम, हर बार की तरह इस बार भी मुल्क की अवाम बड़ी उम्मीद से इस बजट की तरफ देख रहे थी कि नोटबंदी की मार से जो जख्म उनके दिल पर लगे हैं, शायद जेटली साहब इस बजट में कुछ ऐसे एकदामात करेंगे, जो उनके लिए मरहम का काम कर सकें। मगर अफसोस, लोगों को मायूसी और खोखले दावों के सिवा कुछ नहीं मिला। इस बजट में ऐसा कुछ भी नहीं है कि जिसके बिना पर हम इसे एक मुतवाज़िन और मुसबत बजट कह सकें। इसमें दूरंदेशी का फुक़दान है। गरीबों, किसानों और बेरोजगारों की हालतेज़ार में तबदीली लाने के लिए कोई वाज़ह नुक्तेनज़र नहीं अपनाए गए हैं। बजट में एदादेशुमार की भरमार है और अल्फ़ाज की बाजीगीरी खूब की गई है, जिनका हकीकत की दुनिया से कोई सरोकार नहीं है। मुस्तकबिल के लिए कोई ठोस हिकमतेअमली इस बजट में पेश नहीं की गई है और जगह-जगह डिजिटल मईशत की बात कही गई है। हमारे मोहतरम वजीरे खजाना ने बजट की शुरूआत वसंत पंचमी की मुबारकबाद मुल्क की आवाम को देते हुए की है और वसंत को उम्मीदों की अलामत कहा है, मगर कहा जा सकता है कि इस बजट में वसंत तो है, मगर वसंत की बहार नहीं है। उम्मीद की बात तो है, मगर जनता की उम्मीदों पर पानी फेर दिया गया है। उनकी आरजू, उमंगों को नज़रअंदाज किया गया है। “तू है सूरज तुझे क्या मालूम रात का दुख, 

तू किसी रोज़ उतर मेरे आंगन में शाम के बाद।” 

        

          मोहतरम सदर साहब वजीरे खजाना की तरफ से पेश किया जाने वाला बजट ऐसा है, जिसे यही मालूम नहीं कि उसकी मंजिल कौन-सी है। बजट की जबान इस बात की दलील है कि मोदी हुकूमत हर मुहाज़ पर नाकाम साबित हुई है। वजीरे खजाना यूपीए हुकूमत की स्कीमों को दोहराते रहे। उन्होंने एक भी ऐसा ऐलान नहीं किया, जिससे महसूस हो सके कि हुकूमत मुल्क के महरूम, दलित, पसमांदा और गरीब तबके की कोई फिक्र करती है। खवातीन की तरक्की के लिए बजट में बहुत-से ऐलानात तो किए गए, लेकिन उनके तहफुज का कोई इंतजाम नहीं किया गया। अक्लियती उमुर की वजारत के लिए मुखतसरकम में इस बजट में इजाफा जरूर किया गया है, लेकिन सिर्फ ऐलानात कर देने से अख्लियत के मसाइल का हल नहीं किया जा सकता, बल्कि उसे ईमानदारी और दियानतदारी से कैसे रूबेअमल लाया जाए, यह बहुत जरूरी है। मोअस्सर निगरानी के बगैर ऐलानात कभी भी अख्लियतों की ज़बुंहाली को दूर नहीं कर सकेंगे और ये तमाम ऐलानात महज ऐलान ही रह जाएंगे। मुस्लिम अक्लियत की तरक्की और खुशहाली का अहम तरीका औकाफ की जायदादों का सही इंतजाम और इंसराम हो सकता है। उसे मजबूती देने की जरूरत है। वक्फ की जायदादों की हिफाजत का अहम मसला है। जितनी भी वक्फ की जायदादे हैं, अगर उन्हें गासबीन और काबजीन से आजाद करके उन्हें तरक्की दी जाए और उनका सही इस्तेमाल किया जाए तो उसकी आमदनी से मुस्लिम अक्लियत के तालीमी मआशी मसाईल काफी हद तक हल हो सकते हैं। हुकूमत को यह बात पेशेनज़र रखनी चाहिए कि हिंदुस्तान की दूसरी बड़ी आबादी मुस्लिम अख्लियत की है। उन्हें नज़रअंदाज करके मुल्क खुशहाल नहीं रह सकता है। “मैं आज जद पर हूं तुम खुशगुमान मत होना, चिराग सब के बुझेंगे हवा किसी की नहीं।” 

          मोहतरम, मेरे हल्के इंतखाब किशनगंज में कायम अलीगढ़ मुस्लिम यूनीवर्सिटी का सैंटर फंड की जबरदस्त कमी होने की वजह से बंद होने की कगार पर है, जिसकी वजह से ज़ेरेतालीम तलबा व तालेबात का तालीमी मुस्तकबिल मुतास्सिर हो रहा है। मैं आपके तवस्सुस से वजीरे खजाना से गुजारिश करता हूं कि इस सैंटर की तालीमी व तामीरी जरूरियात को सामने रखते हुए, इस बजट में इसके लिए रकम मखसूस की जाए और साबका मज़ूरशुदा रकम जो यूपीए सरकार के जमाने में की गई थी, उस रकम को भी रिलीज किया जाए। गुज़िशता साल बिहार को एम्स का दूसरा सेंटर देने का ऐलान किया गया था। मैंने उसका खैरमकदम किया था। गुज़िशता बजट सैशन में तकरीर करते हुए मैंने वजीरे खजाना से गुजारिश की थी कि यह दूसरा सैंटर मेरे हल्क-ए-इंतखाब किशनगंज को दिया जाए। फिर वजारते सेहत हुकूमते बिहार के मुरासला के मुताबिक किशनगंज जिला इंतजामिया की तरफ से इस सैंटर के लिए 200 एकड़ जमीन का प्रस्ताव भी कर लिया गया है। मैं आपके तवस्सुत से वजीरे खजाना से मुतालबा करता हूं कि एम्स का दूसरा सैंटर किशनगंज में कायम किया जाए। आखिर में आपकी तवसुस से हुकूमत को एक पैगाम देकर रूखसत हो रहा हूं कि 

“मिला क्या है तुझे बारूद की फसलें उगाकर, कोई बस्ती मोहब्बत की बसा देते तो अच्छा था। ” 

  
 

 16.00 hours माननीय अध्यक्ष :प्रेम सिंह जी, आप पांच मिनट में बोलकर जल्दी खत्म कीजिए। श्री प्रेम सिंह चन्दूमाजरा ( आनंदपुर साहिब ) : महोदय, शिरोमणि अकाली दल एक स्टेट को रिप्रेजैंट करता है। मैं इलैक्शन के बाद फर्स्ट टाइम बोल रहा हूँ। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने जो बजट पेश किया है, उन्होंने उसे तीन सुधारों का बजट बताया है। ये तीन बदलाव हैं - समय का बदलाव, रेल बजट और आम बजट को इकट्ठा करना और योजनाओं को उनके खर्च के अनुसार इकट्ठा करना। मैं समझता हूँ कि ये बदलाव समाज में कोई सुधारात्मक स्थिति पैदा नहीं कर सकते। आज देश में सब से बड़ी समस्या भ्रष्टाचार की है। भ्रष्टाचार राष्ट्र कोघुन की तरह नुकसान कर रहा है। इसको खत्म करने के लिए सरकार ने जो नोटबंदी लागू की है, मैं उसे नोटबंदी नहीं, नोटबदली कहूँगा। इस नोटबदली से काला धन बाहर लाकर भ्रष्टाचार खत्म करने की बात कही गई है। मैं समझता हूँ कि काला धन बाहर ले आने से भी भ्रष्टाचार खत्म नहीं होगा। भ्रष्टाचार का जहरीला पेड़ जब तक खत्म नहीं होगा, तब तक भ्रष्टाचार खत्म नहीं हो सकता है। भ्रष्टाचार का कारण यह है कि सरकारी कर्मचारी समय पर नागरिकों को सेवाएं नहीं देते हैं। इसका दूसरा कारण यह है कि आज कर की जो दरे हैं, वे बड़ी असहनीय हैं। मैं समझता हूँ कि ये दोनों बातें हमारे देश में भ्रष्टाचार की कारण बनती हैं। हमारी पंजाब सरकार राइट टू सर्विस एक्ट लेकर आई थी। जब सरकारी कर्मचारियों पर इसकी लगाम लगाई गई, तो सारे काम समय से होने लगे। ऐसे ही जो कर प्रणाली है, उसको भी सरल बनाया जाना चाहिए। आज हमारी कर प्रणाली बहुत जटिल है। जो कर पे करते हैं, उन पर ज्यादा कर लगाया जाता है। आप देख सकते हैं कि इसी बजट में माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने 50 लाख से ऊपर की आमदनी वालों पर कर बढ़ा दिया है। आप कॉरपोट सैक्टर में लोगों पर से कर कम कर रहे हैं। जो लोग कर दे रहे हैं, उन पर और ज्यादा कर लगाना इस देश के हित में नहीं है। यह भ्रष्टाचार को बुलाता है। आप इसको प्रैक्टिकल लाइफ में देख सकते हैं। आज सरकार के पास जितना पैसा है, किसी जरूरत के समय में उससे कई गुना ज्यादा पैसा हमारे गुरूद्वारों, मंदिरों और मस्जिदों में इकट्ठा हो जाता है। वो लोग अपनी मर्जी से पैसा देते हैं। इस कर प्रणाली को सरल करना हमारे लिए बहुत जरूरी है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने इसमें तीन एजेंडे रखे हैं - प्रशासनिक सुधार, नवयुवक और पिछड़े वर्ग को कुशल बनाना और इस देश को भ्रष्टाचार मुक्त बनाना। मैं समझता हूँ कि इस देश की तरक्की और बेहतरी के लिए सरकार ने बहुत अच्छे टार्गेट रखे हैं। इन टार्गेट्स को पूरा करने के लिए इन्होंने 10 प्राईयोरिटी सैक्टर फिक्स किए हैं। इन प्राईयोरिटी सैक्टर्स में इन्होंने कृषि क्षेत्र को चुना है। मुझे इस बात की बहुत खुशी है कि इन्होंने कृषि क्षेत्र को फर्स्ट प्राईयौरिटी में रखा है। यह आज इस देश की जरूरत है। आज बहुत से लोग कहते हैं कि किसान आत्महत्या करता है, और सब लोग सरकार को उसका दोष देने लगते हैं। मैं समझता हूँ कि पिछले 60 वर्षों में किसानों की खेती के लिए जो नीतियां बनीं, उन्होंने किसानों को आत्महत्या करने के लिए मजबूर किया। जब यह देश आजाद हुआ था, तो इसमें 52 परसैंट जी.डी.पी. का हिस्सा था। आज वह केवल 12-13 परसैंट ही रह गया है। जिन लोगों ने इस देश पर राज किया, उन्हें यह बात सोचनी चाहिए कि ”उत्तम खेती, मध्यम व्यापार, निखत चाकरी” का जो नारा लगता था, वह खेती आज देश में निखत खेती क्यों बनकर रह गई है। मैं समझता हूँ कि आज की सरकार ने इसे बहुत बारीकी और गंभीरता से लिया है। बीमारी को समझ लिया गया है, बस उसके इलाज पर थोड़ा सा और ध्यान देने की जरूरत है। आत्महत्या के कारण कर्जा देने की राशि 9 लाख रुपए से बढ़ाकर 10 लाख रुपए कर दी गई है। मैं समझता हूँ कि आत्महत्या कर्जा प्राप्त करने की समस्या नहीं, बल्कि उसे वापस करने की अक्षमता है। आज किसान में उस कर्जे को वापस करने की क्षमता पैदा करने की जरूरत है। इसके लिए हमें कुछ उपाय करने होंगे जिनमें उत्पादकता को बढ़ाना एक उपाय है। उत्पादकता बढ़ाने के लिए एग्रीकल्चर सैक्टर में हमारी जो कॉस्ट ऑफ प्रोडक्शन है, उसे कम करने के लिए हमें अपनी मशीनरी और कीटनाशक दवाइयों को आत्म-निर्भर बनाना होगा। हम विदेशी मशीनरी और कीटनाशक दवाइयों पर टिके रहते हैं। आज हमारे देश में इन कंपनियों ने किसानों और खेती के नाम पर अरबों रुपए का व्यापार कर लिया है। इस सब में वह किसान मारा गया और ये कंपनियाँ अरबपति बन गईं। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से यह निवेदन करना चाहता हूँ कि, किसान के लिए कोई ऐसी व्यवस्था तैयार की जाए जिससे वह अपनी मशीनरी और कीटनाशक दवाइयों में आत्म-निर्भर बन सके। हम मेक इन इंडिया की बात करते हैं और यूरिया को इंपोर्ट करते हैं। मैंने माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से कई बार कहा कि मेरी काँस्टीट्वैंसी नंगल में एक कारखाना है। उसकी केपैसिटी दोगुनी हो सकती है। वहाँ बिल्डिंग, गैस-पाइपलाइन और इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर तैयार है और वहाँ केवल गारंटी देने की जरूरत है। इससे सात लाख टन यूरिया और बन सकता है। हमें जितनी गारंटी देनी है, उससे हमारे एक वर्ष का पैसा बच सकता है। जो हम विदेशों से यूरिया खरीदते हैं तो मैं समझता हूँ कि जब तक हम इसको उत्साहित नहीं करेंगे, तब तक कहने से कुछ नहीं होगा। हमारी जो कॉस्ट ऑफ प्रोडक्शन है, उसे कम करने के लिए हमें किसानों को कम से कम सीधी सब्सिडी देनी चाहिए, बीज सस्ते होने चाहिए, मशीनरी सस्ती होनी चाहिए, फर्टिलाइजर सस्ता होना चाहिए। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि किसानों की जो आमदनी दोगुनी करने की बात कही गई और मैं समझता हूँ, उसके लिए उपाय भी किए जा रहे हैं। मगर टारगेट पूरा तब होगा, जब हम उसको सीधा-सीधा लेंगे। डॉ. स्वामीनाथन कमीशन की रिपोर्ट जो दी गई है उसमें यह है कि जितनी लागत है, उससे 50 प्रतिशत अधिक ऐड करके उसको एम.एस.पी. में गिना जाए। उसके लिए सरकार ने कोई कार्रवाई नहीं की, बल्कि कोर्ट में ऐफिडेविट दे दिया। मैं समझता हूँ कि किसानों में इसके प्रति बहुत निराशा है। चेयरमैन साहब मैं यह कहना चहता हूँ कि स्वामीनाथन कमीशन रिपोर्ट को भी जारी किया जाए और माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने कल प्रेसीडेंट ऐड्रेस पे सिंचाई के बारे में बोला कि हम सिंचाईं को प्रायौरिटी देंगे। इसके लिए 40 हजार करोड़ रुपया ही रखा। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी कह रहे हैं कि हमने पिछले साल 50 लाख तालाब बनाए और 50 लाख तालाब अगले वर्ष बनाएंगे। मुझे तो दिखाई नहीं दिया कि तालाब कहाँ बने हैं। यह बहुत अच्छी बात है कि तालाब बनाए हैं, मगर निचले लेवल पर क्या हो रहा है? जैसे प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना है, फाइनेन्शियल इन्स्टिटय़ूशन लोन नहीं देती हैं। हमारे जैसे लोग जो नीचे स्तर पर काम करने वाले हैं, उनसे सलाह लेनी चाहिए, उनसे बात करनी चाहिए। कार्पोरेट सेक्टर के लोगों से मिलने से ये मुश्किलें, मैं समझता हूँ कम नहीं होंगी। सभापति महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से सरकार को तीसरी बात कहना चाहता हूँ कि पंजाब जैसे बॉर्डर एरिया स्टेट्स हैं, बॉर्डर एरिया पर इन स्टेट्स की खेती को बहुत नुकसान हो जाता है, वहां स्पेशल पैकेज देना चाहिए, वहां कोई इन्ड्रस्टियलिस्ट नहीं जाता है, वहां कोई इन्डस्ट्री नहीं लगती। वहां अनइम्प्लॉयमेंट की प्रॉब्लम बढ़ती है तो कुछ न कुछ इन्सेंटिव बॉर्डर स्टेट्स को देना चाहिए। और इसी तरह टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देने के लिए जैसे श्री आनंदपुर साहिब है। वह देश में सबसे अच्छा टूरिस्ट हब है, रेल हब है, मगर वहां कोई ध्यान नहीं दिया जा रहा। हमने कई बार उसके बारे में कहा भी है। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से निवेदन करूंगा कि वहां टूरिज्म को बढ़ावा देना चाहिए। सभापति महोदय, एक सबसे बड़ी समस्या जिसे आप भी समझते होंगे। आज देश में किसानों को जंगली जानवर और आवारा पशु सता रहे हैं, उसके लिए सरकार ने कोई पैसा नहीं रखा, केवल 10 करोड़ रुपये रखे। मैं और डिप्टी सी.एम. पंजाब, माननीय फॉरेस्ट मिनिस्टर जी के पास गए। सारे देश के लिए केवल 10 करोड़ रुपये रखे हैं। 10 करोड़ रुपये से क्या होता है? मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि कम से कम 10 हजार करोड़ रुपये रखने चाहिए। आज देश के किसान को जंगली जानवरों और आवारा पशुओं ने सताया हुआ है। ऐसे ही हैल्थ और एज्यूकेशन सिस्टम को कॉमर्शियालाइज भी होना चाहिए। इसमें सरकार को जरूर कंट्रोल रखना चाहिए। इन बातों के साथ मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी के बजट के सपोर्ट में खड़ा हुआ हूँ। मैं समझता हूँ कि मेरे सुझावों को वह मानेंगे। धन्यवाद। SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA ( HASSAN ): Sir, I thank you very much. You have given me an opportunity to speak on the Budget presented by the hon. Finance Minister. The hon. Finance Minister while presenting the Budget in 2015-16 made a promise that the farmers would be taken care of. I do not want to read out all the promises he had made in the 2015 Budget. In the Budget of 2016-17, the hon. Finance Minister repeated the same promises. In addition to that, he has also made it very clear that the 89 irrigation projects under AIBP which have been lingering will be fast-tracked. This will help to irrigate 80.6 lakh hectares.These projects require Rs.17,000 crore next year and Rs.86,500 crore in the next five years. We will ensure that 23 of these projects are completed before March 31, 2017. Also in the first 2015 Budget he promised to take steps to demolish the black money”. We have no objection for that. But what steps have you taken to do that? I wrote a letter to the Finance Minister on November 17 or 18 last year in which I personally welcomed the intention to destroy black money which has got an adverse effect on the economic system itself, notwithstanding the views expressed by our friends on this side. But at the same time I cautioned him to take certain steps and said how demonetisation was going to adversely affect farmers, construction labour and contract labour. I narrated all these things in my letter as to how District banks, milk cooperative societies in these areas were going to be affected. I wrote all these categorically for the Minister’s kind consideration. The Minister went on making modification after modification. He had taken several steps to modify the earlier order of 8th November where the hon. Prime Minister had declared demonetisation of Rs.500 and Rs.1000 notes. I have no quarrel with that. At the same time, he should see how things are lingering even now and take further steps to improve the situation to eradicate black money and to go in for a cashless economy or digital economy. Some experts say that it will take six months while some others say five years. I do not want to narrate what experts have said. The problem today is that the Government made certain promises in Budget 2017-18. For agricultural credit the Government allocated a record level of Rs.10 lakh crore. I do not want to make any critical analysis. The provision they made in the RE of 2016-17 was Rs.47,499 crore while the BE of this year is Rs.4,8000 crore. I beg to differ with the number you gave of Rs.1,000 crore. I do not want to make a comment on this. It is for the Minister to say what real provision he has made. For National Drinking Water Mission, Rs.6000 crore was the RE last year and almost the same amount, Rs.6050 crore, has been provided this year. National Social Assistance Programme was provided in RE of Rs.9,500 crore and the same continues in the new Budget. Where are the funds that they have provided over and above last year’s Budget? National Education Mission including Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan got an RE of Rs.28,251 crore last year and this year it got Rs.29,556 crore, a very small increase. Urban Rejuvenation Mission, AMRUT, Smart Cities Mission had an RE of Rs.5,559 crore and now it was Rs.9,000 crore. You have said that provision for more funds has been made in the 2017-18 Budget.  About Smart Cities, I do not find any place in this Budget.  I do not know why it did not come to the notice of the hon. Finance Minister while the Budget Estimate was prepared. You have asked the Members of Parliament to take up one village each as adarshgram. You want to improve the villages by taking amount from MPLADS and it has been advised by the Government. Under whatever name you have done it, I do not want to comment on it.  I am sorry but all the 27 or 28 schemes announced by the Union Government will not be sufficient to provide money for the improvement of villages as adarshgram.  You have asked the Members of Parliament to take up villages.  Unfortunately, we are unable to make any progress.  The people of the Panchayat make comment on us. I am not going to comment on what funds you have provided in the Budget for employment generation.  I do not know how much employment you have provided in last two and a half years.  Under the Mudra Yojana, you have provided several schemes.  But unfortunately, the job created is not commensurate with the actual employment that is there today.  Skilled labourers, semi-skilled labourers or the graduates in IT who are coming out from colleges come at the doorsteps of Members of Parliament and request them to get some jobs.  Some of those graduates are even today working for Rs. 3,000 or Rs. 4,000 as contract labourers.  I am not going to make any exaggeration.  I feel ashamed of myself. We have given so much encouragement to Information Technology.  In 1995, as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, I laid the foundation stone of the first IT Park - Tata Singapore Technology Park.  The Prime Minister of Singapore came; Ratan Tata was there.  The entire Opposition at that time blocked the House when I brought an amendment to the land reforms Act.  Earlier, the land reforms Act was so strict.  Shri D. Devaraj Urs had brought a comprehensive Bill on land reforms and got it passed.  I was the Leader of Opposition at that time.  The land could not be touched by any industrialist.  Such was the hard decision taken by Shri Devaraj Urs that any person who had an income of Rs. 12,000 or more, could not touch the land.  I wanted to bring amendment to that particular provision because any investor either from outside the country or within India who wanted to come for infrastructure projects was not prepared to come because of this hard decision taken by the late Devaraj Urs.  At that time, I took a bold decision.  What is going on today is a result of that. I do not want to speak on the benami transaction or the money that has been acquired by the real estate mafia.  I do not want to speak on all these issues.Shri Ananthkumar is here. He knows what is going on in Karnataka. I do not want to narrate that. It is up to you if you want to take any tough action on benami transactions, money laundering or in curbing corruption and black money. We are not coming in the way. If you want to cleanse the entire system, I am the person who is going to lend my support. … (Interruptions) It is not a question of thumping the desks. It is an issue lingering not from today; it is an issue which is pending for the last several years. When Dr. Manmohan Singh was the Finance Minister we had pledged gold in 1991. At that time, I was sitting on the other side. The country’s economic situation was so bad that we were almost in a debt trap. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : It was not Dr. Manmohan Singh. … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : It was Dr. Manmohan Singh in 1991. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : He had not pledged gold. … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : You do not know. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : I know it. This was during the Chandra Shekhar Government. I am very sorry to say. … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please allow him to speak. … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : When Shri Chandra Shekar was the Prime Minister, Shri Yashwant Sinha was the Finance Minister. … (Interruptions) SHRI M. VEERAPPA MOILY : That is correct. … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : At that time 30,000 tonnes of gold was pledged. When Dr. Manmohan Singh became Finance Minister, he pledged 120 tonnes to see that the country should not go into a debt trap. I was sitting here. I have argued this matter. Let the matter be corrected by the hon. Finance Minister, if I have gone wrong. I am not going to make any comments. … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : How much time are you going to take, Shri Devegowda? … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : Today, we must compliment the then Prime Minister Narasimha Rao who was the pioneer to save the situation. I do not want to make any unnecessary comment against anybody but facts are facts. Shri Vajpayee who was then sitting here as an Opposition leader, subsequently implemented a gold bond scheme. I still remember all those things. I am not going to comment on what Shri Moily has said. Let the hon. Finance Minister rectify if I have made any mistake. I will accept it. The only thing is how the situation was so bad. Yesterday, I was hearing your speech. You spoke about what happened in 1996. I was not responsible. I was hardly there for ten months. In the Oil Pool Account, Rs. 17,000 crore were to be paid to the oil companies. The foreign debt was $ 94 billion. I know what I should have done. During my period, we had reduced the MAT. I do not want to narrate all those things. What were the steps I had taken to improve the situation of the farmers? I can only quote one instance. What is the growth of the agriculture sector? It is not my report but The Economic Survey has spelt it out in the subsequent year. It says: “The overall growth of the agricultural production is likely to be somewhat subdued in 1997-98 when viewed against the high growth of 9.3 per cent in 1996-97.” I was just there for 11 months or ten months and 21 days but this is the progress we had made! … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : How much time do you require? … (Interruptions) SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : In the morning, I went to the Speaker’s Chamber and made a request to her that I wanted to speak. I have personally met the Finance Minister to discuss about how the farmers are being harassed over the so-called NPAs. I have discussed it personally with him. What is NPA? Once a borrower has failed to make interest or principal payment for 90 days, his loan is considered to be a non-performing asset. The Prime Minister has given 60 days interest relief to the farmers to pay crop loans.  What is the condition of the farmers today?  Farmers are committing suicide.  I do not want to mention all the figures.  What has happened in Maharashtra?  Your own Government is there.  It is not a question of the ‘x’ or the ‘y’ Government.  What is the condition of the farmers?  For three years Karnataka had faced such a severe drought.  Let Shri Ananthkumar say that there was no drought in Karnataka.  Drinking water is a major problem in Karnataka. Sir, I have written two letters; one is about the tobacco growing farmers and another is about the coconut growing farmers.  I think you have received those letters.  I had approached the Prime Minister.  One of my Congress friends from Tumkur constituency was also there.  The Memorandum was prepared by the former Vice Chancellor of the Agriculture University.  Sir, the Support Price for the hard nuts is to be Rs.4000 per quintal and Rs.14,000 per quintal for the copra crops. In Karnataka only kharif crops like coconut, pepper, banana, ragi, maize and green gram are covered under the Fasal Bima Yojna.  Rabi crops like Bengal gram, ragi, maize are also covered.  The claim settlement for kharif crop is yet to be announced.  I have got the latest report.  You have still to decide the subsidy component per hectare.  It is going to be announced soon.  I do not know the quantum of relief you are going to give.  You have given certain relief with regard to crop compensation.  You have provided crop compensation worth Rs.68 per quintal.  Under the Fasal Bima Yojna for six crops the quantum of relief that you are going to give is yet to be announced.  My only request is for the tobacco growing farmers.  One of the best qualities of tobacco is grown in Karnataka.  I have written to the hon. Prime Minister about the tobacco growing farmers and coconut growing farmers.  I have represented personally also but I do not know when the relief is going to be given. So far as the recovery of loans from the farmers is concerned, I would like to say that more than Rs.6 lakh crore of NPA is due to major corporate houses. Contrary to that, a farmer who has taken certain loan from a scheduled bank, his entire property is going to be auctioned.  Some of the farmers may also commit suicide. 16.29 hours                      

(Dr. Ratna De (Nag) in the Chair) 

Some circular was also issued.  The Prime Minister has given some direction.  The Reserve Bank’s circular has still to reach the district cooperative banks.  I do not know how the delay is going to be overcome!  Frequent orders are being issued by the Reserve Bank or by the Finance Ministry. Sir, another issue which I would like to bring to your kind notice is with regard to the ARC share-holders; State Bank of India- 19.95, IDBI-19.98, ICICI-13.3, almost all the banks have invested in the shares of the so-called restructuring cooperation which has been established in Mumbai. Sir, they are going to charge 24 per cent after the so-called assets are going to be handed over to Bank by scheduled banks. In case of defaulters, twenty- four per cent interest charged by this Bank is worse than what a Marwari would charge. Sorry, if I used the word Marwari. If I hurt anybody, I must be pardoned. I am expressing my regrets. Is this type of an institution which we want to create? वित्त मंत्रालय में राज्य मंत्री तथा कॉर्पोरेट कार्य मंत्रालय में राज्य मंत्री (श्री अर्जुन राम मेघवाल) : मारवाड़ी शब्द तो वापस लीजिए। It is not a good trend to use the word Marwari. SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : It has a different meaning in Kannada. Please pardon me. HON. CHAIRPERSON : He has taken his word back. SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA : What is the meaning of that? This high interest rate of 24 per cent is horrible. This is an institution which has been created by the Government. I do not know as to what is the meaning of that word is Hindi, Urdu or Sanskrit. I am only a Kannada speaking person and to some extent, I can speak some English. It is worst. For this, the so-called scheduled banks have invested their shares. On the one side, you are going to give relief, and on the other side, you are going to suck their blood. I welcome the Fasal Bima Yojana. But, at the same time, the number of crops which you have fixed for Karnataka, is only six, both Kharif and the Rabi but, in other States, you have fixed 26 or 28 crops. What is this sin we have committed? I do not know. This is how we have been discriminated against. One more issue is there. You have made one provision in the Finance Bill. “Reason to believe to conduct search, etc., shall not be disclosed         to any person, to any authority or the Appellate Tribunal.” 

  

Then, what is the consequence of this? You are again introducing Inspector Raj. That is my humble opinion. If you want to give a satisfactory explanation in this House, it is for this House to consider that. Sir, we have taken steps to totally abolish this Inspector Raj. This is a new system. About 2-3 days back, the hon. Supreme Court commented about double standard of the CBI. This comment was made by the court and not by me. If the CBI or the Enforcement Directorate is going to be used on the political consideration, then, I am sorry to say that we cannot support this type of attitude. Nobody can support this. If I had done it during my tenure of ten months as Prime Minister, I am prepared to apologise for that. I had not done any such things at all. So, if the hon. Supreme Court starts making such comments on the double standards of CBI, then who is responsible for that. You have to take certain precautionary steps about such institutions. On the issue of creating jobs with all the promises that you have made in all the three Budgets, to what extent have you created jobs? Have you tried to find out where you have failed? I would like to know whether you have failed due to demonetization. I appreciate only one thing, that is, the support that you are going to give to the dairy industry. You have provided Rs. 8,000 crore for this purpose.  When the farmers suffer with severe drought, dairy business is the only area where they can earn additional income from.  You have to always remember this.  The late Dr. Kurien who was the father of the milk movement is the only person who had given such a big support to the farming community.  The dairy development has taken place in Gujarat, Karnataka and some parts of Maharashtra.  In some of the northern States, dairy development has still not taken place. There are some of the areas in northern States which have to be further strengthened.  For that, you have provided Rs.8,000 crore. I do not want to cross the time limit which has been allotted to me by the hon. Speaker. Normally, I would not be given an opportunity to speak.  I requested the Speaker for allowing me to speak today.  We are only two Members from our Party.  I am called as the fifteenth person to speak.   I have been given one seat in the front bench by the UPA or the NDA.  I am not so much interested in sitting in the front bench.  I can sit anywhere in the House. You take some steps to save the farming community.  Swaminathan Committee and Rangarajan Committee have quoted the percentage of poverty.   I have got all the material but I do not want to strain my time limits. With these words, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Chairman and to the Speaker. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Hon. Members, those who want to lay their written speeches, may hand over a copy of their speeches at the Table of the House. SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI ( BELAGAVI ): Respected Madam, I am thankful to you for giving me an opportunity to speak on this occasion. First of all, I would like to congratulate hon. Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi Ji, hon. Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley Ji, Minister of State for Finance, Shri Meghwal Ji and his entire team for presenting this Budget. This year’s Budget is the Budget for all and all are in the Budget.  Each and every one and one or the other is benefited from this Budget.  While the poor and the honest are recognized and benefited in the form of tax benefits and subsidies, the defaulters would be punished and penalized under stringent laws. At the outset, we often say : ‘Sarve jana sukhino bhavantu’.  Like previous two Budgets, this Budget is also a great leap forward towards welfare and happiness of all irrespective of caste, creed, religion and region.  It is a secular Budget.  Coupled with the benefits of demonetization, stringent tax laws, fear of penalties and punishment for tax evaders, the Budget is a step forward in achieving Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas. Madam, it is not only this Government which has done demonetization.  Yesterday, the hon. Prime Minister was saying that if we do not read the history, we cannot go forward.  So, we have to go through the history.  In the 12th century, Lord Basaveswara was there in Karnataka and he was having Anubhav Mandapa which was Parliament of Thinkers in those days. Even in those days, there was huge drought and Lord Basweswara was the Raja - equivalent to Chief Minister today - and he also gave the entire bhandaar to the poorest of the poor of the country in those days. Today also, the country is facing a lot of problems.  During this period, demonetisation has brought great relief to the poorest of the poor people. किसान, गरीब, गांव के लिए प्रधान मंत्री जी ने जो किया है, The same history has got repeated once again today. Madam, the Government is carrying the credit subsidy benefits directly to beneficiaries accounts and extending a number of Government benefits like aadhaar enabled benefits thus saving thousands of crores of the exchequer and eliminating or reducing corruption in ghost ration cards, middlemen and beneficiaries. Imagine the situation during the earlier Government about ten years before.  The whole world was focussing on India but nobody was interested to invest in India. During the UPA Government, everyday we used to oppose the wrong doings of the Government. Today, under the leadership of hon. Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, the country is progressing and the entire world is focussing on investment in India.  60 per cent of the youth of the country are going in for cashless accounts.  We must appreciate our bankers also when demonetisation has taken place. SHRI H.D. DEVEGOWDA :  Shri Narasimha Rao had declared in the very same House about 6000 kilometers of conversion of meter gauge to broad gauge.  Do not take the credit only for yourself. Remember the things which happened during Dr. Manmohan Singh as the Prime Minister.  I can speak volumes about it.  Do not think that only during Shri Narendra Modi’s period, things have moved forward and miracle has happened. SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI :  Thank you Madam for your view.  Our Prime Minister never said that everything has happened in two years.  Sir, during your period also, good things had happened and he has said many times that all the Prime Ministers who have served the country have done the best of their ability.  Yesterday, our hon. Prime Minister has stated it in his reply.   I am not blaming anybody but the Parliamentarians of this House must introspect as to what we were in the last ten years and what is the position today. When a call was given by the hon. Prime Minister for yoga, 197 countries are performing yoga today.  The world is recognizing Shri Narendra Modi as one of the best leaders of the world. This is the point I want to express. Shri Devegowda is our respected and very senior former Prime Minister.  He is our guru ji also in politics. I am very much proud of him.  From the farming community, as a small farmer, he has reached the highest level of being the Prime Minister of the country. Sir, your advice is always solicited and we will always follow your directions.  You may please advise hon. Narendra Modi also.  There is no problem about it.   Yesterday, मोदी जी ने कहा है कि हमारा आपस में विरोध रहेगा, लेकिन हम देश के लिए एक साथ काम करेंगे। Our concern is development of the country and not to serve any political purpose.  This House should function as a non-political entity.  We should not politicize the financial aspects of the Budget. बहुत लोग पूछ रहे थे कि कितने पैसे हैं, कितने जमा हो गए। अगर हम किसी के घर में जाकर पूछेंगे कि घर चलाने वाली मां के पास कितने पैसे हैं तो कोई नहीं बताएगा, कोई बाप नहीं बताएगा। हमारे देश में कितने पैसे हैं, क्या यह दूसरों को बताना है। 12वीं शताब्दी में बसवन्ना ने भी बता दिया था। *....*Basavanna said in one of his vachanas : “Why are you worried in trying to mend other’s behaviour instead of mending yourself? Do not cry for inconveniences of the world; you first try to concentrate on yours.  Only then, you will be blessed by Koodalasagama Deva.* 

          आप बाहर के लोगों के लिए सोच रहे हैं, अगल-बगल के लोगों के लिए बहुत सोच रहे हैं, लेकिन देश में हमारी तकलीफ क्या है, वह सोचिए, हमारी परेशानियां क्या हैं, वह सोचिए, हमारे हकों के लिए क्या चाहिए।  हमारे किसान के लिए क्या चाहिए, हमारे गरीब लोगों के लिए क्या चाहिए, अगर वह सोचकर बात करेंगे तो हम आगे बढ़ सकते हैं। Today, we are politicising the surgical operation, demonetisation and even the Budget. Yesterday, the hon. Prime Minister also stated that we do not want any politics in Budget and in the country’s development. So, I am very much grateful to Shri Deve Gowda ji. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Suresh ji, how much time will you take? SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI : I am having time and my Party is having time. We were students, including Shri Ananth Kumar, Shri Arun Jaitley and Shri Deve Gowda, and we all went to jail in those days, in 1975. The democratic situation and development of the country were at a different level. जब भी देश पर खतरा आया, उस समय जय प्रकाश नारायण का जमाना आया और डेमोक्रेसी को बचाया। लास्ट टेन ईयर्स में देश में इतनी तकलीफ थी, दुनिया का कोई भी देश इंडिया को रिस्पेक्ट नहीं देता था इसके लिए हमें काशी विश्वनाथ की पूजा करनी चाहिए। काशी विश्वनाथ  के आशीर्वाद से नरेन्द्र मोदी उत्तर प्रदेश से प्रधानमंत्री बनकर आए और देश का विकास शुरू हो गया। कभी-कभी देश के लिए प्रोबल्म होने से फायदा होता है। यूपी में बुद्धिस्ट सर्किट के तहत प्रधानमंत्री ने रामायण सर्किट के लिए 99 करोड़ रुपये  प्रिच्युअल सर्किट ऑफ उत्तर प्रदेश के लिए 76 करोड़ रुपये, मेरठ के लिए 62 करोड़ रुपये डेवलपमेंट ऑफ दि हेरिटेज सर्किट, कलिंजर फोर्ट के लिए 41 करोड़ रुपये, वृन्दावन के लिए 14 करोड़ रुपये, रिवर सर्किट वाराणसी के लिए 10 करोड़ रुपये, रामायण सर्किट के लिए 154 करोड़ रुपये और उत्तर प्रदेश के लिए 658 करोड़ रुपये, कबीर साहब के लिए 25 करोड़ रुपये, उत्तर प्रदेश की अभिवृद्धि और इम्पलायमेंट के लिए प्रधानमंत्री काशी विश्वनाथ के आर्शीवाद से काम कर रहे हैं। उत्तर प्रदेश से बहुत सारे प्रधानमंत्री हुए हैं लेकिन उत्तर प्रदेश अभिवृद्धि और टूरिज्म का सेंटर नहीं बन पाया था। पुरूषोतम राम के लिए कुछ नहीं किया गया था। HON. CHAIRPERSON : Suresh ji, now you please conclude. SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI : You just imagine we have made the Ganga as the highway. जल मार्ग से ट्रांसपोर्टेशन चालू किया है, उससे कितना इम्पलायमेंट होगा you please understand किसानों के लिए 10 लाख करोड़ रुपये में इन-डॉयरेक्ट इम्पलायमेंट कितना हो सकता है Nobody is thinking about this. So, this Budget is a very positive one. इसके अलावा फसल बीमा योजना के बारे में कोल्हापुर के सहयोगी धनंजय महाडीक कह रहे थे। फसल बीमा योजना में पहले पन्द्रह लाख रुपये थी अभी एक करोड़ पन्द्रह लाख रुपये हो गया। किसानों के लिए फसल बीमा योजना से बहुत सुविधा मिल रही है Farmers are very happy. So, this Budget is a very positive one. आज गांव में  गरीब किसान और युवकों के लिए मुद्रा योजना के माध्यम से अवसर मिल रहा है। आज तक बैंकर्स केवल बड़े लोगों को यानि जो बड़ी गाड़ी लेकर जाता था या सूट बूट में जाता था उनको लोन देता था। मेरे एरिया में घर में काम करने वाली गरीब महिला है जो दस परसेंट पर लोन लेती थी। HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude now. About 35 Members have laid their speeches so far. SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI : It is very important for women. HON. CHAIRPERSON : At last you are thinking about women. SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI : If the vegetable vendors take Rs.1,000 in the morning, शाम को 100 रुपए वापस देते थे, You can imagine how much interest they would be paying. Because of  Jan Dhan Yojana, they are getting loan from the bank directly, and their interest is saved. इससे बहुत लोगों को सहायता मिलेगी। यह बजट गरीबों, युवाओं, किसानों, महिलाओं के लिए है। यह बजट मिडल क्लास लोगों के लिए है। माननीय सभापति : गणेश सिंह जी का टाइम जा रहा है। SHRI SURESH C. ANGADI : Deposits and cash transactions over and above certain amount in the long way would be rewarding the use of plastic money because everybody is going to use plastic money. If we charge on use of plastic money, people may resist using it. That is the only suggestion I am giving to the hon. Finance Minister.  If no charge is imposed on use of plastic money on withdrawals, everybody would go for using plastic money. डिमोनेटाइजेशन के दौरान बैंककर्मचारियों ने इतना अच्छा काम किया है कि हमारे पास बोलने के लिए शब्द नहीं हैं, 24 घंटे काम किया है। देश की आर्थिक स्थिति बहुत मजबूत है, इसके लिए मैं माननीय प्रधानमंत्री और माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं। आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं धन्यवाद करता हूं। *नारणभाई काछड़िया (अमरेली) ः केंद्रीय वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा पेश किया गया बजट अभूतपूर्व एवं सराहनीय है। सरकार से जनता को ढेरों उम्मीदें हैं जिन्हें पूरा करने के लिए जनता ने हमें चुना है। जनता की उम्मीदों को ध्यान में रखते हुए इस बजट में गरीबों के लिए आवास, किसानों को विशेष लाभ, डिजिटल लेन देन को प्रोत्साहित करना, गर्भवती महिलाओं और वरिष्ठ नागरिकों को सहायता, मुद्रा योजना के तहत दलितों, जनजातियों, पिछड़े वर्गों और महिलाओं की प्राथमिकता पर मुख्य रूप से ध्यान रखा जाना अत्यंत सराहनीय है। किसानों की अगर बात करें तो किसान भाइयों के लिए ऋण प्रवाह और ब्याज माफी योजना अत्यंत सराहनीय है। फसल बीमा योजना के लिए 9000 करोड़ रूपए के बजट का प्रावधान किसानों के लिए अत्यंत प्रोत्साहित करने वाली योजना है तथा किसानों को 10 लाख करोड़ का कर्ज दिया जाएगा। यह किसानों का कृषि के प्रति रूझान को केंद्रित करने वाला निर्णय है। ग्रामीण आबादी का भी विशेष रूप से इस बजट में ध्यान रखा गया है। गरीब ग्रामीणों के लिए ग्राम पंचायत को गरीबी से मुव्त करवाना, मनरेगा के लिए अधिक बजट राशि का प्रावधान तथा मनरेगा में महिलाओं की भागीदारी 48 प्रतिशत से बढ़ाकर 55 प्रतिशत किया जाना ग्रामीण आबादी के लिए ऊर्जावान होगा। ग्रामीणों के जीवन में यह बजट प्रकाश प्रवाह भी सुनिश्चित करता है। राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण पेयजल कार्यक्रम यह सुनिश्चित करता है कि ग्रामीण क्षेत्र के निवासियों को स्वच्छ जल उपलब्ध कराया जा सके। देश के युवा वर्ग जो कि हमारे देश की ऊर्जा एवं शव्ति का विस्तार करता है, इस बजट में युवाओं की शिक्षा, लिंग समानता और गुणवत्ता में सुधार के लिए भी विभिन्न प्रोत्साहित योजनाएं शामिल हैं। इस बजट में देश भर के 600 से ज्यादा जिलों में प्रधानमंत्री कौशल केंद्रो का विस्तार किया जाए तथा युवाओं को और अधिक रोजगार मिले इस बात का पूरा ध्यान रखा गया है। गरीब तथा विशेष सुविधाओं से वंचित वर्गों के स्वास्थ्य को सर्वोपरि मानकर यह सुनिश्चित करता है कि अब इस देश में गरीबों की विभिन्न बीमारियों से निजात को प्रतिबद्धता सरकार की दृढ़ता को दर्शाता है। वरिष्ठ नागरिकों के लिए आधार आधारित स्मार्ट कार्ड शुरू किए जाएंगे जिनमें उनके स्वास्थ्य संबंधी ब्यौरे भी शामिल हैं। देश की अवसंरचनाओं के विकास जैसे रेल, सड़कें, पोत परिवहन सहित परिवहन क्षेत्र के लिए भी 2,41,378 करोड़ रूपए का प्रावधान किया गया है। यात्रियों की संरक्षा के लिए राष्ट्रीय रेल संरक्षा कोष को सृजित किया जाएगा। ब्रोडगेज लाइनों पर मानवरहित क्रासिंग को 2020 तक समाप्त करने का निर्णय है। 500 स्टेशनों को लिफ्ट और एस्क्लेटर के माध्यम से दिव्यांगों के अनुकूल बनाया जाएगा। यह इस बजट के सामाजिक दृष्टिकोण को दर्शाता है। 2017-18 में 3500 किमी. रेलवे राइन बिछाए जाने का प्रस्ताव किया जाना एवं रेल सुरक्षा के लिए 1 लाख करोड़ रूपए का फंड सराहनीय है। सड़क सेक्टर में राजमार्गों के लिए पिछले वर्ष की तुलना में इस वर्ष और अधिक व्यय का प्रावधान लोगों के सुचारू आवागमन को व्यवस्थित करेगा। वित्तीय सेक्टर में प्रधानमंत्री मुद्रा योजना के तहत 2.44 लाख करोड़ रूपये का ऋण लक्ष्य नियत किये जाने का प्रस्ताव दलितों आदिवासियों पिछड़े वर्गों और महिलाओं के सशव्तिकरण को ध्यान में रखकर लिया गया निर्णय है। डिजिटल अर्थव्यवस्था के अंतर्गत 125 लाख व्यव्तियों ने "भीम " एप को अपना लिया है। आधार समर्थित भुगतान प्रणाली का व्यापारिक संस्करण "आधार पे " शीघ्र ही शुरू किया जाएगा जिसका प्रत्यक्ष लाभ देशवासियों को मिलेगा। सार्वजनिक सेवा के विस्तार में मुख्य डाकघरों को पासपोर्ट सेवाएं प्रदान करने के लिए प्रयोग में लाया जाएगा। एक केंद्रीकृत रक्षा प्रणाली विकसित की गयी है जिसके माध्यम से हमारे सैनिक एवं अधिकारी यात्रा टिकटों को ऑनलाइन बुक करा सकेंगे। रक्षा पैंशन भोगियों के लिए वेब आधारित इंटरैक्टिव पेंशन वितरण प्रणाली स्थापित किये जाने की दिशामें उठाया गया कदम सराहनीय है। यह देश को आगे ले जाने वाला बजट है। इसमें सबकी बात की गयी है। ये देश के भविष्य और भावी पीढ़ी का बजट है। इस बजट में हर किसी के सपने को साकार करने का ठोस कदम साफ नजर आता है। ये बजट हर किसी की उम्मीदों को ताकत देगा। * SHRIMATI P.K. SHREEMATHI TEACHER ( KANNUR ): Serious situation has arisen due to the demonetization of currency leading to much hardship to the poor and common people, particularly the small traders, agricultural workers, daily wage workers, middle class people, unorganized sector and the urban poor. Demonetization of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 notes that has affected the Indian economy and the economic situation continues to worsen. The last figures for industrial and manufacturing production have shown an absolute decline with growth rates being  negative. There is alarming decline of nearly 30% in capital goods production. The entire energy sector is in crisis, indicating very significant industrial slow down. Unemployment is consequently rising and agrarian crisis is deepening. Vast sections of peoples are deprived of even meager relief through legal  entitlement and it is of serious concern and immediate steps should be taken. The prices of most farm produce have fallen by 30% and it is affecting the farmers. There has been a stress in the agricultural sector due to demonetization. Cash is the primary mode of transaction in agriculture sector, which contribute 15% to India's total output. The demonetization has hit the farm sector the hardest where the farmers are struggling for sale, transport, market and distribution of ready produce. Hence Government must take urgent steps to waive debt immediately for farmers who are suffering due to the disruption of normal agricultural activities. There is a need to take effective steps against increasing crimes against women and children across the nation and to have a stringent and better legislation, particularly for safety and security of women and children. Government should take immediate steps to pass Women Reservation Bill.  Facilities should be provided for the upliftment of women belonging to the backward and rural areas of the country. Government should provide sufficient funds for specific programme to encourage women in the field of sports. Government should take effective measures to check the malnutrition among the women and children in our country and immediate steps must be taken to strengthen ICDS services. Price rise continues to remain relentless with all food articles costing much more, severely condemning the livelihood of vast majority  of people. This is a matter of serious concern and hence steps should be taken in this regard and also the steps should be taken to control abnormal hike in the prices of petrol and diesel leading to high inflation, causing hardship to the common people. Effective measures should be taken to strengthen public distribution system. Our country is facing serious problem of rising unemployment. There is a six year low for new job in eight labour intensive industries. The last quarter of 2015 has recorded virtually a negative growth of unemployment. The government claims that India's GDP is growing at a world record level of 7.9% but this claim does not match the economy ground realities. In all the three sectors, which reflect the growth of economy i.e. agriculture, industry and services, there has been a marked slowdown. The attacks on workers continue in many ways. Hence effective steps should be taken to check unemployment and generating more job opportunities. The decision of the Government to discontinue the supply of subsidized food grains to Above Poverty Line (APL) and reducing the rice quota of the State of Kerala adversely affect the state where there had been a statutory ration distribution system so far. As per this, the priority list has 52.63% of beneficiaries from urban areas and 39.5% from the rural areas. This means 1.79 lakh families will be left out of the purview of the PDS. This decision will put the PDS in the state into disarray when the State is on a war footing to implement Food Security Act . Hence urgent steps should be taken to reconsider the decision and retain the existing ration quota. Kerala is facing severe drought. Lakhs of acres of cultivable lands remains fallow due to scarcity of water. All the tanks, lakes and reservoirs are dried up. There is drinking water scarcity. Farmers are committing suicides and their number is increasing every hour. Hence, I request the Government to immediately release the amount of additional assistance requested by the Kerala state from National Disaster Response Fund, relaxing the norms of additional assistance. *SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE ( BARAMATI ):The financial year 2017-18 is characterised by fluctuations in the prices of the farm output, especially perishables like onions and tomatoes. The prices of many agricultural commodities have seen a fall in the recent months of October and November. There are varied reasons behind this price fall and a few common factors affecting all crops are the above average monsoon and the resultant bountiful Kharif crop output this year. Such price fluctuations negatively impact the profit of the farmers, unless there is a price regulating mechanism to counter the change. Without such a mechanism, the cultivators are forced to sell their produce at the price set by the traders. In some states, including Maharashtra, the prices of pulses like moongdal and soyabean have also fallen below the Minimum Support Price (MSP) in 2016-17. MSP is one such measure, which will ensure assured returns to the farmers. Hence the Government must also consider procuring vegetables (onions and tomatoes) at MSP. The Centre must upwardly revise the MSP for farm output. It must also increase its procurement from the farmers during times of drastic fall in the prices. In order to achieve this objective, the Government must increase its allocation to agriculture budget. This Government has instituted the Price Stabilization Fund, primarily to normalise these fluctuations. I would urge the Government to increase its allocation towards this fund. The Finance Minister has proposed doubling the income of farmers in five years. This Government had made a similar promise in 2016-17 Budget. The Centre must provide clarification as to how it contemplates to achieve this, and whether the  income that it plans to double is the nominal or the real income of the farmers. The Government has claimed that the budget allocation for MGNREGA is the highest ever at Rs. 48,000 crore in 2017-18. There are a few points I would like the Government to clarify on this social welfare scheme. First, it was by the repeated orders of the Supreme Court to release funds under MGNREGA to the drought hit states, that the Centre released funds to the tune of 47,500 crore in 2016-17. Thus, it is a mere increase of 500 crore in 2017-18 as compared to the actual allocation. Second, the budget allocation for 2017-18 cannot be compared to the first allocation to NREGA in 2007-08, without considering the inflation. After correcting it to inflation, there is only a nominal increase in the budget of MGNREGA compared to during the UPA-I. 

          Third, many arrears in the payment of wages from the current financial year are being carried to 2017-18. Thus, the Rs.48,000 crore will not be sufficient to meet the expected expenditures. Fourth, the Finance Minister also proposed to construct five lakh farm ponds and ten lakh compost pits in 2017-18, as development works under MGNREGA. The Government must clarify the state and condition of the farm ponds constructed in 2016-17, which are reported to be under dilapidated condition. One of the determining factors in rural prosperity is the rural connectivity and accessibility. But in the Budget 2017-18, the allocation to Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) has remained stagnant at Rs.19,000 crore compared to the budget estimates of 2016-17. Many rural habitations are isolated from their urban counterparts and to achieve inclusive development, the Government must increase the budget to PMGSY. The importance of safe drinking water for the health of citizens, especially to rural India, cannot be understated. It is equally important to maintain the sanitation standards. The efforts of the government towards sanitation, by increased allocation to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan are  in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. But the budget directed to national Rural Drinking Water Mission in 2017-18 Budget is Rs.6,050 crore, which is a mere increase of 50 crore from the revised estimate of 2016-17. With India being a relatively young nation, facing demographic dividend, skilling of the work force to improve their employability is essential, There are many skill development schemes like Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, Skill India. The Budget 2017-18 proposes two new initiatives of SANKALP and STRIVE  for skilling of workers. I would like to ask the Government about the employment growth, from the present skill augmenting initiatives of the Government. The Government must address how it contemplates to employ the youth skilled through the new schemes of SANKALP and STRIVE. The Budget specifies setting up of new branches of AIIMS in Gujarat and Jharkhand. Though it is crucial to improve the accessibility of advance medical services to citizens from all states, it is important to ensure that adequate infrastructure at existing AIIMS hospitals in Bhopal, Jodhpur and Patna. The Government must allocate budget for sufficient doctors, medical equipment and laboratory facilities for students. Thus the Government must address the lacunae in the social development indicators, by increased allocation for the welfare of farmers, rural economy, job growth and health. * SHRIMATI KOTHAPALLY GEETHA ( ARAKU ): I thank and congratulate the Union Government and the Honourable Finance Minister for proposing a budget which is for the first time pro-poor and pro-farmers and which is inclined in accelerating economy of India. I wholeheartedly appreciate the Union Government in effectively controlling inflation. In a situation, where in the world economy is facing uncertainty, the Union Government has taken many bold and decisive measures to control inflation and deliver transparent and corrupt free governance to the citizens of the country. I congratulate the Finance Ministry for increase in the FDI to 36% despite reduction in global FDI inflows. It is a proud moment for every Indian that we were not subject to recession in spite of the slowdown in the global economy due to economic and political developments. We still continue to be one of the fastest growing major economies in 2017. I also support the Union Government in the passage of the Constitutional Amendment Bill for GST and the entire process that follows in the implementation of this Bill. We stand with the government in merger of the Railway budget with the General budget realising the need of the hour to give equal importance to the other modes of transportation which have also gained equal demand like the Railways. The Government's agenda for 2017-18 "Transform, Energise and Clean India" is the need of the hour and the reform that is quintessential to transform the energised and clean country into a super power. The vulnerable sections of society, the youth and the women, need to be energised and they should be provided with required support to transform their lives. The "Swachh Bharat" is referred just not in corrupt free, transparent and accountable governance. The concept of "jan sakshi" has to be recognised and people should be a part of governance, people participation in democracy will reveal the true sense of democracy. I truly appreciate the emphasis the budget has put on the farmers by providing them 10 lakh crore rupees. As we all know, the backbone of Indian economy is agriculture and by promoting agriculture and farming, the country will attain prosperity. I appreciate the steps taken by the government to provide for waiver of interest for 60 days and believe that farmers will definitely benefit out of this measures Fasal Bima Yojana, Krishi Vigyan Kendra's, the long term irrigation fund set up in NABARD is a welcome measure which will boost irrigation facilities. It is a known fact that 70% of countries population is rural and more than 83.3 crore of people live in rural areas. The prosperity of the country depends on the prosperity of the villages or the gram panchayats. The aim of the Union Government to bring one crore households out of poverty and 50000 gram panchayats poverty free is quite an ambitious step. I fully welcome and support the steps of the union government in attaining these targets. It is a welcome step in increasing budget under MGNREGA. At  this juncture, I would like to bring to the notice of the government that many sarpanches are being deprived of utilisation of funds due to political reasons which is to be viewed seriously. The gram panchayats should be enabled to optimally utilise the funds under MGNREGA. It is a moment of happiness for all the members of Parliament who are representing remote and rural constituency like me. I represent Araku, which is the only tribal constituency of Andhra Pradesh and affected under left wing extremism. Though the population is low, it is the second largest constituency in India, in terms of area, and connectivity is a major issue where around 4600 habitations have no road connectivity. The Government initiative in providing connectivity to population over 100 people will certainly provide for more connectivity to village. This will enable and point delivery mechanism of all welfare activities as well as providing another amenities, I also request the government to take stringent measures against such contractors who defy the agreement and have violated the time frame in which work has to be completed. The Government has put emphasis on 100 percent electrifications of villages by March 2018. There are also approximately 1000 habitations in my constituency which are yet to be electrified. I also wish to state that more than 3000 villages have been electrified since 2014 for which I sincerely  thank the government. I am happy that Government has increased budget under PM Awaas Yojana- Gramin and are committed to providing houses for the homeless but emphasis should be laid on grounding of this scheme by the respective state governments. I also welcome the National Rural Drinking Water Program to provide safe drinking water to the people in rural areas which are a major concern even today. The youth are pillars of the nation. India is presently in the early part of its demographic dividend. If adequate measures are not taken, India will not able to reap the advantages of this demographic dividend, may in fact jeopardize its future. India's bulge youth could just as easy turn into youth bomb, if policies are implemented ineffectively or are not enough to cater to the large enough sections of the population. The result will be an over-unemployed or under employed. This situation will create resentment and unrest. Hence, it is important that we provide quality education; impart human values, skills and knowledge. Skill development should also be prioritised as even today after many efforts we are not able to make considerable progress in my constituency. This issue of unemployment needs to be addressed and self sustainable livelihood patterns needs to be encouraged. Women comprise of 50% of Indian population and welfare and empowerment of women should also be prioritised. As eminent writer Kofi Annan rightly said "There is no tool for development more effective than the empowerment of women". I appreciate the steps taken by the government in empowering women as well as providing for maternity benefit scheme and Mahila Shakti Kendras. 17.00 hours 

बहुत सारी चुनौतियां हैं। उत्तर प्रदेश बहुत बड़ा प्रदेश है, वहां चुनाव होने जा रहा है। ऐसी परिस्थितियों मे यह बजट प्रस्तुत किया गया है। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा वर्ष 2017-18 के लिए दिए गए बजट प्रस्तावों का समर्थन करता हूं। हम सभी जानते हैं कि बजट प्रस्तुत करते समय चुनौतियां होती हैं और इस समय भी दो रास्ते थे। पहला रास्ता यह था कि हम चुनाव में जा रहे हैं, चुनावों को देखते हुए एक ऐसा बजट प्रस्तुत करें, जिससे लोग आकर्षित हों और केवल राजनीतिक लाभ उठाने के लिए उस बजट को प्रस्तुत किया जाये। लेकिन हमारी सरकार, जिसने अंतरिम बजट के साथ-साथ चौथा बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, अपनी पूर्व धारणाओं पर ही कायम रही। चुनावी लाभ उठाने के बजाए, हम देश को कैसे समृद्ध करें, देश को कैसे मजबूत करें, देश के लोगों के लिए विकास का रास्ता कैसे बनाएं, इस पर कायम रही और उसी के अनुसार वित्त मंत्री जी ने यह बजट प्रस्तुत किया है। मैं किसी सरकार या राजनीतिक दल की आलोचना नहीं करना चाहता हूं, लेकिन यह सत्य है कि पूर्व में जो सरकारें रहीं, उनके पास विकास की स्पष्ट धारणा नहीं थी, जिसकी वजह से विकास तो हुआ, लेकिन एक सुनियोजित विकास नहीं हुआ। मैं बहुत पुरानी बात नहीं करता, लेकिन अगर वर्ष 2004 से 2014 से बीच के समय की हम समीक्षा करें तो निश्चित रूप से इन दस वर्षों में देश का बहुत बड़ा नुकसान हुआ। इन दस वर्षों में जहां देश अर्थव्यवस्था के क्षेत्र में पिछड़ा, महंगाई बढ़ी, भ्रष्टाचार बढ़ा, आतंकवाद बढ़ा, वहीं दूसरी तरफ विकास का पहिया भी थम गया था। वर्ष 2014 का जो लोक सभा चुनाव हुआ, उसमें लोगों ने बहुत उम्मीदों के साथ एनडीए के पक्ष में मतदान किया था और उन उम्मीदों को कायम रखने की जिम्मेदारी हमारी सरकार, प्रधानमंत्री जी और वित्त मंत्री जी पर थी। हमारी सरकार ने उस पर भलीभांति काम किया है। अब जब पूरी दुनिया में यह स्पष्ट हो गया है कि विकास की अवधारणा जनकेन्द्रित विकास पर ही आधारित होती है, ऐसे में यह स्पष्ट हुआ है कि पण्डित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी का राष्ट्रीय एकात्म मानववाद का सिद्धांत ही जनविकास की एक धुरी है। उसे आधार बनाकर हम पूरे देश में विकास के काम को बढ़ा रहे हैं, उसी पर काम कर रहे हैं। यह एक सामाजिक सिद्धांत है, इसमें यह स्पष्ट है कि जो लोग आर्थिक और सामाजिक दृष्टि से पिछड़े हुए हैं, वे विकास के प्रवाह का लाभ भी नहीं उठा पाते। ऐसे में जब विकास का प्रवाह आता है तो उनके हिस्से का विकास ऐसे लागों के पास चला जाता है जो आर्थिक, शैक्षणिक और सामाजिक रूप से समृद्ध होते हैं। ऐसा ही हिन्दुस्तान में हुआ। हमारे देश में अमीर और गरीब के बीच बड़े पैमाने पर अंतर आया, एक बहुत बड़ी खाई बनी। अभी जन-धन योजना के माध्यम से हमने 27 करोड़ बैंक खाते खोले हैं, ये खाते उन लोगों को, जो विकास की अवधारणा में पीछे छूट गए थे, उनको पुनः मुख्यधारा में लाने का काम करेंगे। वहीं कुछ ऐसे लोग, जो विकास में बहुत आगे बढ़ गए थे और सिस्टम से बाहर चले गए थे, उनको सिस्टम में लाने का प्रयास हमने विमुद्रीकरण के माध्यम से किया है। दोनों दृष्टियों से एक सामंजस्य बैठाने का हमने प्रयास किया है। वित्त मंत्री जी ने जो अपनी प्रतिबद्धताएं एवं प्राथमिकताएं बताई हैं, उनमें उन्होंने किसान को पहले नम्बर पर रखा है। निश्चित रूप से यह देश किसानों का देश है और 70 प्रतिशत से अधिक लोग किसी न किसी रूप में खेती से जुड़े हैं। हमने यह घोषणा की है कि वर्ष 2022 तक हम किसानों की आय को दोगुना करेंगे और उसके लिए एक रोडमैप भी तैयार किया गया है। इसमें फसल की लागत को कम करने के साथ-साथ फसलों को नुकसान से बचाना और फसल बीमा के माध्यम से ऐसी परिस्थितियां पैदा करना, जिससे किसानों का नुकसान कम से कम हो, की व्यवस्था की गयी है। इसमें सिंचाई को भी शामिल किया गया है। 17.04 hours              (Shri Hukmdeo Narayan Yadav in the Chair) 

          राष्ट्रीय कृषि बाजार के माध्यम से फसलों का पूरा दाम मिले, इसकी भी व्यवस्था की गयी है। हमारी सरकार ने यह भी घोषणा की है कि अब किसानों को अपनी फसल हेतु लिए गए ऋण पर कोई ब्याज नहीं देना होगा। यह एक बहुत बड़ी घोषणा वित्त मंत्री जी ने इस बजट में की है। सिंचाई की भी उन्होंने व्यवस्था की है। यहां पर माननीय मेघवाल जी बैठे हैं, मैं उनसे कहना चाहूंगा कि आपने सिंचाई के लिए व्यवस्था की है। सिंचाई से निश्चित ही धनार्जन की व्यवस्था बनती है।...(व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। 35 माननीय सदस्य बोलने वाले हैं। पांच मिनट से ज्यादा समय नहीं दिया जा सकता है। अब आप कृपया समाप्त कीजिए। श्री अजय मिश्रा टेनी : मैं केवल पांच मिनट में अपनी बात समाप्त कर दूंगा। मुझे ज्यादा नहीं बोलना है। मैंने अभी बोलना शुरू किया है। मैं आपके माध्यम से आदरणीय मेघवाल जी से कहना चाहता हूं कि सिंचाई के लिए तो हमने बहुत सारी योजनाएं बनाई हैं लेकिन बाढ़ और कटान का भी स्थायी समाधान मिले, यह किसानों की आमदनी बढ़ाने के लिए और उनकी फसलों को सुरक्षित रखने के लिए बहुत आवश्यक है। दूसरे, जो ग्रामीण आबादी को रोजगार और बुनियादी अवसंरचना उपलब्ध कराने के विषय में अपनी प्राथमिकता को दर्शाया गया है, मैं आपके माध्यम से यह कहना चाहता हूं कि हमारे देश में अभी भी बहुत सारी ऐसी जातियां हैं जो जंगलों में रहती हैं और पिछड़ी हुई हैं, लेकिन विकास का लाभ उनको इसलिए नहीं मिल पा रहा है कि राजनैतिक कारणों से जिस एससीएसटी में उनको शामिल होना चाहिए, वे उसमें शामिल नहीं हो पा रहे हैं। हमारे यहां एक बोट जाति है जो एससी की पात्रता रखती है लेकिन राजनैतिक कारणों से उनको लाभ नहीं मिल पा रहा है। इसी तरह से ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में जब हम विकास की बात करते हैं, आज सुबह प्रश्नकाल में फाइबर ऑप्टीकल बिछाने की बात हो रही थी, मोबाइल टॉवर लगाने की बात हो रही थी, लैस कैश की तरफ जब हम जा रहे हैं तो ऐसे समय में इंटरनैट की उपलब्धता की भी बात हो रही थी। बहुत सारी योजनाएं जो सरकार द्वारा घोषित हैं लेकिन वन विभाग द्वारा अनापत्ति प्रमाण पत्र न देने के कारण वे रुकी हुई हैं। वर्ष 2016-17 के बजट में मेरे क्षेत्र में ही महलानी-बहराइच रेलवे लाइन का लाइन कंवर्जन का काम घोषित किया गया था। लेकिन वन विभाग द्वारा एन.ओ.सी. न दिये जाने के कारण वे सारे काम ठप्प हैं। जब वन विभाग आपका ही है और दूसरे विभाग भी आपके हैं तो कोई ऐसा कानून क्यों नहीं बनाते कि जो यहां से योजना घोषित हो तो उसके लिए एन.ओ.सी. लेने की आवश्यकता न पड़े। मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि एससी का जिनको दर्जा मिलना चाहिए, उनको राजनैतिक कारणों से न रोका जाए और एनओसी के कारण फाइबर ऑप्टीकल बिछाने के काम को न रोका जाए। माननीय सभापति : शर्मा जी, आप प्रारम्भ करिए। देखिए, समय के अंदर हमें चर्चा समाप्त करनी है। एक मिनट के बदले लोग तीन मिनट लेंगे तो हाउस को रात के दस बजे तक कोई थोड़े ही चलाएंगे। …( व्यवधान) श्री अजय मिश्रा टेनी : सभापति जी, मध्यम वर्गीय जो व्यापारी था, इस बजट में उसको बहुत बड़ी सुविधा दी गई है। जो दो करोड़ के टर्न ओवर के व्यापारी थे, उनकी बहुत लम्बे समय से मांग थी, 8 प्रतिशत आयकर उनके ऊपर लगाया जाता था। हमारी सरकार ने एक बहुत बड़ी सुविधा दी है, ऐसे सभी व्यापारियों के लिए आय का प्रतिशत 8 से घटाकर 6 प्रतिशत पर उनका निर्धारण किया जाएगा। इसी के साथ साथ जो मध्यम वर्गीय कंपनियां थीं, जिनका 50 करोड़ का टर्न ओवर था, उनका कर 25 प्रतिशत किया गया। यह बहुत लाभ की स्थिति है। धन्यवाद। ...(व्यवधान) * SHRI B.N. CHANDRAPPA ( CHITRADURGA ): I would like to say that this time the Railway Budget has lost its separate entity and it has been merged with the General Budget. I have my own doubt whether the Railways would be enjoying the same status as was there at the time of a separate Budget. Even though the Government has said that nothing would be changed, according to me, the Railways would lose its autonomy in regard to giving priority to the Railway projects. The Budget is placed at an important juncture when there has been a thrust given by the government for a digitized and a consequent cashless economy with the demonetization of high value currency notes undertaken in November last year. About 100 people have died for various reasons owing to this act of demonetization. But there is no compensation announced by the Government for the families of deceased people due to demonetization. The Union Government has reduced the number of schemes for Scheduled Castes from 294 to 256. In the year 2016-17, the total schemes for Scheduled Tribes were 307. It is brought down to only 261 in 2017-18. Only 11 new schemes for SCs and 8 new schemes for STs has been introduced in 2017-18. The total budget allocated is Rs. 52,393 crore for SCs and 31,920 crore for STs in 2017-18. This amount is 2.50% of the total Budget estimate. The due amount as per Jadhav guidelines is equivalent to 4.25 % of total Budget. Total of Rs. 44,246 crore for SCs and Rs. 18,073 crore for STs has been denied by the central government. It is 1.19% of the total allocation for SC/STs allocated for SC women and 1.68% for ST women. Overall allocation for gender budget is only 0.99%. I would like to say that the government should have taken some more measures for the development of SCs and STs in the backward districts in the country including my parliamentary constituency Chitradurga, where about half of the population belongs to SC and STs. Though the allocation under the MGNREGA is Rs. 48,000 crore, it is not sufficient as the number of households is increasing to seek jobs under the scheme. Moreover, individual worker is not going to get more work or more pay and that is a big disappointment for landless farm workers. Instead of mixtures of the works given under the programme, the government need to craft a cohesive plan to create proper infrastructure in rural areas benefiting both the community and the workers. As far as the allocation for children in this year's budget is concerned, it is sadly remained unchanged. It is a dismal 3.32% of the total Budget being allocated to children. I would like to point out that there is a need for a transformational change in the education system of the country. However, the allocations for children have seen a meager incremental increase to Rs. 71,305.35 crore this year from Rs. 65,758.45 crore in 2016-17 Budget. There are 10,80,757 elementary schools in our country. The allocation for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) in this year's budget is up from Rs. 22,500 crore to 23,500 crore. If it is distributed with the number of elementary schools, each school gets pittance. For the Rashtriya Madhymik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) Rs. 3830 crores is allocated, which is only Rs. 130 crore increase over last year. The RMSA has set out a target of ensuring universal access of secondary education by 2017 (gross enrolment rate, GER of 100%) and universal retention by 2020. The Budget missed out on giving any additional income tax incentives to first-time home buyers or providing higher tax savings on housing loans and house insurance premiums. Nor did it raise house rent deduction limits. In the wake of demonetization and the huge money deposited in the banks people were looking forward to an increase in income tax exemption limit. There were also multiple requests for the revision of tax slabs pertaining to senior citizens and super senior citizens (above 80 years). However hon'ble Finance Minister disappointed them by increase in the limit of tax exemption in  negligible figures.It did provide some direct tax relaxation to the lowest income earners, and gave some clarity on the designated beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. A new Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) for the middle-income group with a provision of INR 1,000 crore in 2017-18 was announced. Also, extension of tenure of loans under the CLSS of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) was increased to 20 years from the existing 15 years. In the Union Budget, the Government has sought to incentivize greater use on non-cash transactions for small businesses by lowering the tax rate on presumptive income to 6% from 8% for all non-cash transactions. The hon'ble Finance Minister also announced tax exemptions for manufacturers of point-of-sale (PoS) card readers, mobile PoS (mPoS), fingerprint readers and iris scanners. I would like to point out that the government should have given FULL exemption in taxing to incentivize users to adopt non-cash transactions for small businesses instead of lowering it from 8% to 6%. The additional expenses involved in cashless transactions, like charges imposed on online transactions and withdrawals at ATMs will be a huge burden on common man. This is an indication that the government doesn't concern over the pain and the difficulties undergone by the people during the demonetization period. The National Plan of Action for children (NPAC) has made some suggestions for introducing special schemes for children's education in the country. It has recommended that at least 5% of the Budget must  be spent on schemes and programmes directly related to children. I am of the opinion that the Budget fails to meet the expectations of the parents and children by not accepting suggestions of the NPAC and making adequate allocations for the education sector. But, according to the District Information System for Education (DISE) 2015-16, we are still struggling with 80% GER and 17% drop-out rate in secondary education. If these trends needs to change for secondary education, there has to be increased investment in the RMSA. For a country like ours with the potential demographic dividend, it is imperative that the policy response and Budget outlay in the domain of public education be accorded higher priority. There is a very meager enhance for the Mid-Day Meal Scheme (MDM) from Rs. 9,700 crore in 2016-17 to Rs. 10,000 crore this year. I would like to point out that the allocations under the SCSP, the TSP in 2017-18 budget is very inadequate to meet the demands of the communities. The SCSP comprises only 2.5% and the TSP only 1.53% of total allocations, which is not even the half of the mandated amount. The Government had in September scrapped the 92-year old practice of presenting a separate railway budget and decided to present a combined general and railway budget for 2017-18 on 1 February 2017. With regard to Chitradurga -- Bengaluru railway line, there is need to expedite the work on this railway line. If the work between Chitradurga and Tumkur is completed, it would reduce travel time between the two cities. Therefore, I would like to request the hon'ble railway minister to issue necessary directions to the authority concerned to expedite the work on this railway line. With regard Railway proposals for the state of Karnataka I would like to mention that major chunk of the allocations have been made to line doubling, including Hubballi-Vasco-da-Gama (Rs. 250 crore), Hotgi-Gadag (Rs. 138 crore), Hubballi-Chikkajajur (Bengaluru line)(Rs. 198 crore), Arsikere-Tumakuru (Rs.138 crore), and yelahanka-Penukonda (Rs. 120 crore) under South Western Railway (SWR). SWR got meager allocation (Rs. 3,146 crore) compared to neighbouring zones - Central Railway, Rs. 6419 crore; South Central Railway, Rs. 5,598 crore and Southern Railway, Rs. 5,785 crore. However, I welcome the higher allocation to Tumakuru-Hubballi line doubling and Tumakuru-Davangere new line. Some of the new line works too got a boost, including Rayadur-Tumakuru, Rs. 81 crore; Bagalkot-Kudachi (Rs. 50 crore), Tumakuru-Chitradurga-Dvangere (Rs. 30 crore), Hassan-Bengaluru (Rs. 79 crore), and Gadag-Wadi (Rs. 40 crore). Of the total allocation of Rs. 3,146 crore to SWR, 331.8 crore are earmarked for new lines; Rs. 309.6 crore for doubling and Rs. 59 crore for traffic facilities. I would like to say the government should have allocated more money to complete the said projects at the earliest. Despite fervent demands to operationalise the new divisional office announced at Kalaburgi, only Rs. 1 lakh has been earmarked for creation of facilities under Solapur division of Central Railway. I would like to draw the attention of the government that Rs. 80 crores is needed for construction work in the Gulbarga division, but only Rs. 1 lakh has been sanctioned. How can they build anything with this amount. Therefore hon'ble finance minister should enhance the allocation in the supplementary budget for Gulbarga division. Under South Central Railway, ongoing new line works of Kalaburagi-Bidar got Rs. 50 crore; Raichur-Mahabubnagar Rs. 200 crore and Kadapa-Bengaluru (Bangarpet) Rs. 150 crore. Doubling of Daund-Kalaburagi and electrification of Pune-Guntakal got Rs. 200 crore. Patch doubling between Mangaluru Junction and Panambur under Southern Railway got Rs. 92 crore, while doubling between Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central (1.5 km) got Rs. 5 crore. There is a push for rail electrification in the State, with Chikkabanavara-Hubballi (456 km); Chikkajajur-Ballari (184 km); Gadag-Hotgi (284 Km) and Bengaluru-Omalur via Hosur (196 km) proposed to be added to the electrification network without earmarking any funds. Guntakal-Ballari-Hosapete got Rs. 66 crore; Hosapete-Vasco got Rs. 88 crore and Miraj-Londa got Rs. 22 crore. *श्री संजय धोत्रे ( अकोला ):मैं सर्वप्रथम माननीय वित्त मंत्री अरूण जेटली जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं कि उन्होंने माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी नरेंद्र मोदीजी की सोच के अनुरूप बजट को प्रस्तुत किया है। वास्तव में वजट से देश को एक नई और ठोस आर्थिक क्रांति के साथ-साथ दीर्घकालीन लाभ भी मिलेगा। दूसरा अर्थव्यवस्था की गति में उम्मीद के अनुसार वृद्धि होगी। इसमें बिना किसी भेद-भाव के समाज के सभी वर्गों खासकर संगठित व असंगठित क्षेत्र के मजदूरों, किसानों, बेरोजगार युवाओं, व्यापारियों, इत्यादि का पूरा ध्यान रखा गया है। यह बजट उस मुश्किल दौर के बाद प्रस्तुत किया गया है जब देश में विमुद्रीकरण किया गया था जिसे आम जनता ने बड़ी शालीनता से यह सोचकर स्वीकारा कि माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी के इस क्रांतिकारी कदम में देश का हित छिपा है। उन्होंने उस अस्थाई तकलीफ को यह समझते हुए सहा कि अच्छी सोच से किये गए बदलाव में तात्कालिक रूप से तकलीफ तो होती ही है, परंतु इसके दूरगामी व सुखद परिणाम होते हैं। मैं माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देता हूं कि उन्होंने इसके लिए जो पचास दिनों का समय दिया गया था, उस पर लोगों ने पूरा भरोसा किया जो वास्तव में सही साबित हुआ। यह उनके कुशल नेतृत्व  का प्रतिफल रहा। इस विमुद्रीकरण से पहले आय कर देने वालों और इसके बाद पुराने बंद किए गए नोटों के बैंकों में जमा होने के बाद, इस बारे में आश्चर्यजनक तथ्य सामने आए हैं। पहले जहां एक ओर एक करोड़ 95 लाख लोग अपनी आमदनी ढाई लाख से 5 लाख दिखाते थे, वहीं 50 लाख करदाता अपनी आय 5 लाख से 10 लाख दिखाते हैं। इसके अलावा सिर्फ 24 लाख करदाता ऐसे थे जो अपनी आय 10 लाख रूपए से अधिक होने की जानकारी दिया करते थे। इस नोट बंदी के बाद निर्धारित तिथि तक 1 करोड़ 09 लाख खातों में लोगों ने औसतन पांच लाख तीन हजार रूपए जमा करवाए। एक करोड़ 48 हजार खातों में, इस दौरान प्रत्येक खाते में, औसत 80 लाख रूपए जमा किये गए। अब सरकार ऐसे लोगों की पहचान उन्हें आयकर के दायरे लाएगी। इससे सरकार के राजस्व में बढ़ोत्तरी होगी। अब गलत तरीके से पैसा कमाने वालों में डर पैदा होगा। पूरे देश को डिजिटल और लैस-कैश बनाने का सराहनीय प्रयास किया गया है, जिससे देश में काले धन में रोक लगाने में काफी मदद मिलेगी। सरकार के राजस्व में बढ़ोत्तरी होने का दूसरा कदम बेनामी संपत्ति कानून को अधिसूचित करने से भी बढ़ेगा। जो कानून 1988 में संसद द्वारा पारित हो चुका था, उस पर सरकार ने साहसिक कदम उठाया है। मेरा मानना है कि सरकार समय-समय पर, परिस्थितियों के अनुसार, देश की जनता के हित में ऐसे ही ठोस कदम उठाएगी। इस बजट में सरकार ने कृषि क्षेत्र की ओर खासकर ध्यान रखा है। सरकार द्वारा किसानों की आमदनी को दुगुना करने का जो लक्ष्य रखा है, वह सराहनीय है। इस ओर उन्हें कर्ज देने का अब तक का सबसे बड़ा लक्ष्य रख कर उनके हितों की रक्षा करने में सरकार ने एक ठोस पहल की है। कांट्रैक्ट फार्मिंग एक सुधारवादी कदम है जो कृषि उपज की बर्बादी को रोकने में कारगर साबित होगा। यह बड़े हर्ष की बात है कि हमारे किसान भाई कृषि में अत्याधुनिक तकनीक अपनाने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं। इस दिशा में बड़े पैमाने पर नवीनतम कृषि उपकरणों का उपयोग किया जा रहा है। इस संबंध में, मैं सरकार का ध्यान किसानों को फसलों और कृषि संयंत्रों के लिए दिए जाने वाले कर्ज पर ब्याज की दरों की असमानता की ओर आकर्षित करना चाहता हूं। जहां एक ओर फसल पर दिए जा रहे ब्याज की दर 6 फीसदी है, वहीं दूसरी ओर फार्म मशीनरी खरीदने के लिए 12 से 15 फीसदी तक ब्याज लिया जा रहा है। मेरा सरकार से अनुरोध है कि क्राप लोन की तरह इसे भी मध्यम और दीर्घ कालीन ऊर्जा की श्रेणी में रखकर इस पर ब्याज की दर 7 से 8 फीसदी की जाए। मैं यहाँ पर विदर्भ के किसानों की दयनीय स्थिति का वर्णन करना नहीं भूलूंगा। जैसा कि हम सब जानते हैं कि महाराष्ट्र का यह क्षेत्र किसानों की लगातार आत्म-हत्याओं के लिए जाना जाता रहा है। पिछले 20 सालों से यहां के हजारों किसानों ने आत्महत्याएं की हैं जिसका मुख्य कारण सिंचाई की सुविधाओं का अभाव है। यहं डैम, बैरेज, इत्यादि बनाने के कार्य में बड़ी धीमी गति से कार्य हो रहा है। पर्याप्त मात्रा में निधि उपलब्ध नहीं हो रही है। यहां का किसान मुख्य रूप से कपास, दलहन, तिलहन, अरहर, सोयाबीन, चना, मूंग, उड़द की खेती करता है। मैं सरकार से अनुरोध करता हूं कि विदर्भ के किसानों के लिए एक पैकेज के रूप में कपास सोयबीन व अरहर के लिए न्यूनतम मूल्य कम से कम एक हजार रूपया रखा जाए। शिक्षा को रोजगार बनाए जाने की दिशा में 600 कौशल केन्द्र खोले जाने की घोषणा एक नई पहल है। हर गांव तक बिजली पहुंचाने का जो संकल्प लिया गया है, वह एक प्रशंसनीय कदम है। श्रम कानूनों को आधुनिक बनाने में व उन्हें तर्कसंगत रूप देने की बात इस बजट में पहली बार की गई है, जो श्रमिकों के लिए एक हितकारी होगा। यह पहला बजट है जिसमें रेल बजट को भी उसमें सम्मिलित किया गया है। ट्रैफिक कम्पीटिशन का जो विचार रखा गया है वह रेल यातायात के नए विकल्पों को समयानुसार सामने लाएगा, जिसमें रेल की आय में वृद्धि होगी। मैं सरकार का ध्यान अकोला-खांडवा रेल खंड पर अमान परिवर्तन पर धीमी गति से हो रहे कार्य की ओर दिलाना चाहता हूं। इस कार्य में गति लाने के लिए कम से कम इस साल इस मद में 500 करोड़ की धनराशि का आवंटन किया जाना आवश्यक है। मैं सरकार द्वारा हाउसिंग पैकेज दिए जाने की घोषणा का स्वागत करता हूं, जो सुस्त पड़े हाउसिंग क्षेत्र में जान लौटाने की कार्य करेगा। खासकर कम आय वर्ग के लिए बनने वाले मकानों के मामले में यह एक क्रान्तिकारी कदम होगा। मैं मझोले और छोटे उद्योगों को कंपनी कर में पांच फीसदी की राहत दिए जाने की घोषणा को प्रशंसनीय कदम के रूप में देखता हूं। बैंकिंग क्षेत्र के पुनर्गठन के लिए एक हजार करोड़ रूपए के प्रावधान को एक सही कदम के रूप में मानता हूँ, जो आने वाले समय में यह एक मील का पत्थर साबित होगा। यह बजट मुद्रास्फीति में काबू रखने तथा वित्तीय घाटे को कम करने में सहायक होगा। * SHRI R. DHRUVANARAYANA ( CHAMARAJANAGAR ): The current NDA Government has got the clear mandate from the people in the general election two and half years back in the name of change. Whereas, if we look at the track record of 2.5 years of this ruling Union Government. It is clearly visible that government has still not yet understood the real problems of common man of this country. It has also failed in making, what must be the primary priorities and areas, where government need to act in more robust way. Government has not yet made any honest attempt through democratic way to understand the real-time problems of the common man, and this is clearly visible in the current union budget 2017, the recent decision of Demonitisation. The growth of any nation will be assessed through the Action Plans adopted for future. But in the current Union Budget, Action Plan itself is missing. It shows that union government is completely vision less and not serious about solving common man problems. In place of union budget, Hon'ble union finance minister has presented the annual financial report. In the union budget, it has been announced that there is a budget allocation of Rs. 10 lakh crores for agriculture. But at the same time, government has not made clear that where and how money will be utilized for the welfare and upliftment of marginal class farmers. Today we have 89% of farmers in this country who are holding the average land of 1.15 hectares. Most of these farmers belong to the Most Backward Class of the society. Whereas, it is missing in the union budget how these Marginal Class Farmers welfare will be done through organized way and providing social justice to them. This shows that Union Government is no longer a sensible ruled government, but it's a dictated government. For past two years, country has noticed uneven distribution of rainfall during Monsoon season. Some part of the country has received above normal rainfall and major part of the country has received below normal rainfall (Deficit Rainfall). States like Karanataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu have faced serious drinking water problems in rural areas. Rivers and Reservoirs have already dried before summer. But Hon'ble Finance Minister neither discussed nor noticed this serious problem of the majority part of the country. This shows that Union Government is not making any serious efforts in understanding the Real-Time problems and ground reality of drought situation. Union government is only targeting big and commercial driven projects, to benefit the particular group of people, who supported them in the elections. It's least bothered about in dealing the common man's problems. Today, we have thousands of children in Rural India who are facing the serious malnutrition problem. Due to drought hundreds and thousands of people (Tribes, Backward, Most Backward, SC/ST) are struggling to get the food. We were in the anticipation of new programs for drought hit areas and for rural India people to get the food and shelter. Government has not made its mind to solve the problems of marginal class people. There is another evidence to show how senselessly Union Government is acting. In the union budget, it was said that there is an increase of 24% allocation for infrastructure development, crop insurance, irrigation soil testing labs etc. Agriculture production can't be achieved just through soil testing labs or by establishing more of them. Instead, government must have announced new programs to improve the soil fertility. India has very diverse geography and it is utmost required to have different programs as per the diverse geography. But, here, government is indirectly facilitating/benefitting private corporate companies through establishing more soil testing labs. The impact of demonetisation is much more serious than it was understood. The situation in rural India after demonetisation is critical. The back bone of Rural Economy is agriculture, whereas successive failure of monsoon rainfall and demonetisation decision is completely halting the rural economy. In the Union Budget, nothing has been made to improve the non-agriculture production rate in the Rural India. Union Government through Union Budget should have laid the foundation to establish more rural centric industries to provide more jobs to rural population. But Union Government has done nothing in this direction. Based on World Bank data for 2013, India's R&D spending oscillates between 0.8-0.9 % of its GDP, much lower than countries like China (2%), Japan (3.5%), South Korea (4.15%), and Israel (4.1%). Union Government should increase budget allocation towards this. Despite the low R&D spending, India has had some spectacular successes in space research. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) successfully put Mangalyaan, or the Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) spacecraft, in orbit around Mars in its very first attempt in 2014. It was described by the Time Magazine as one of the 'Top 25 invention of 2014' and was achieved at a project cost that was a fraction of the money spent by the other nations. However, we can't afford to ignore sectors such as life sciences, nanotechnology, clean energy, etc. which can provide Indian the next bolus of growth. * DR. RATNA DE ( NAG) (HOOGHLY ): India is facing an uphill task of bringing back economy on growth path after demonetization. The forecast of the Economic Survey is that economy would grow between 6.75% and 7.5% in the next financial year. But it is uncertain due to growing NPAs and the decision of Donald Trump administration concerning H-1B visas which would immensely affect India's IT industry. With this background, no one can hazard a guess that economy would be in good shape in the coming months when growth rate is slipping. Budget presented by our Finance Minister painted a rosy picture of the economy. Inequalities have grown enormously if we go by what is stated officially by the Government - that only 76 lakh Indians make over Rs. 5 lakh per year officially. There is a need to ensure that the growth and development reaches the poor and downtrodden who are at the lowest rung of society. At present, it is not so. Rich are getting richer and poor are getting poorer. It is astonishing to find out that the Budget seeks to provide a record Rs. 10 lakh crore in loans to farmers, boost funds for rural employment guarantee programme and bring one crore households out of poverty and promised to build one crore houses by 2019. This is no doubt aimed at farmers in Uttar Pradesh to influence the voters. On the ground, where is the money? May I know from the Government as to what it  has done on these counts for the past two and a half years? We could see rise in farmers suicides under this Government with no sight of any policy or programme to address the issues concerning farmers or to pay compensation  to the family of farmers who have committed suicide or to waive off their loans, with the result the Supreme Court asked the Centre to formulate a policy to address the farmers suicides. Is it not a fact that farmers suicides have gone up by a 45 per cent during the 2 years rule of NDA II under Modi ji? What would be the Government's response on farmers suicides. What about providing jobs to the youth? Modi ji promised heavens to the youth and got elected. Immediately after that, he has forgotten the youth and a paltry 1.5 lakh jobs were created in the year 2015-16, but promised 5 crore jobs in 5 years. Youth were stranded with unemployment on the rise. Government has failed miserably in providing jobs. There is no policy to address youth unemployment. The Government claims that economy is on the right path and it would grow. The IMF has recently slashed its India growth project for the current fiscal year by a full point to 6.6 per cent. Would the Government respond to the slashing of IMF specifically without giving jugglery of figures to bring home the point? There is a cap on cash donation to parties at Rs. 2,000 from the earlier Rs. 20,000 and poll bonds were proposed. Unless we could get to know the details of the scheme on poll bonds one cannot jump to the conclusion as to how this would bring transparency or what is the intention of the Government on these aspects. It seems only the Government is appreciating the Budget and a few of its partners not one Opposition party welcomed the budget. Shiv Sena, an ally of BJP, wanted to know where is 'acche din', which was promised by the BJP? Left parties alleged that the figures highlighted by the government do not match the reality on the ground. This budget should further shrink economic activity and would not boost demand. Lalu Prasad described Mr. Modi as a 'twin brother' of new US President Donald Trump, who is now famous for 'taking wayward decisions'. Our leader, Kumari Mamata Banerjee remarked that this Budget is not only clueless and action-less, but also heartless for various reasons. This Budget is full of jugglery of numbers and hollow words and hence misleading, according to our leader. This Budget has promised a lot. For example, boosting employment and the idea of infrastructure development. But where is the money. With the Budget provided to the Railways, it would take a long time for the Bullet Train to come on the track. Instead of focusing on safety and security of railway passengers, more than 4 major accidents have taken place in the recent past. This Government is directionless, and started making tall claims of bringing Bullet train in the country. How can it be possible without huge finances at the disposal of the Railways? There is nothing concrete on black money in the Budget. I wish the Government before it completes its tenure would come out with a scheme which would ensure basic income to every person below the poverty line. The allocations made to the HRD is a mere Rs. 79,686 crore; and Ministry of Women and Child Development is Rs. 22,095 crore, and Health and Family Welfare is Rs. 48,853 crore. Is this enough when we for sure know the plight on these three counts? Government needs to explain a lot in this regard. I hope the hon. Minister would make attempts to hike the allocations to these important Ministries which would go a long way in ensuring education, safety and growth of women and children, and health sector getting a much needed boost. Much emphasis needs to be laid on health and education. I hope the hon. Finance Minister would look into these aspects, along with the welfare, safety and security of women and children in these days of upheavals heaped on them. In the Union Budget 2017-18, the Government has Capped the donations to political parties at Rs. 2000 per person against the existing Rs. 20,000; Donations have to be made through cheques and digital modes; and Introduced electoral bonds redeemable by political parties. The identity of donor shall be anonymous. One cannot expect that the identity of the donors will remain anonymous when India's privacy laws are so poor. There is a scope of leakage of information. Electoral bond is not the solution. The Trinamool Congress wants all parties to come on board for electoral reforms through State funding and take a long term review. श्री राम कुमार शर्मा ( सीतामढ़ी ) : माननीय सभापति जी, मैं राष्ट्रीय लोक समता पार्टी की ओर से बजट 2017-18 पर अपनी प्रस्तुति के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। मैं अपनी पार्टी की ओर से और अपनी ओर से आपको धन्यवाद करना चाहता हूं। मैं एक किसान परिवार से आता हूं और एक किसान का बेटा होने के नाते आदरणीय प्रधान मंत्री जी महोदय और वित्त मंत्री महोदय के द्वारा जो किसानों की उन्नति के लिए, किसानों की आय को दुगुना करने के लिए जो प्रावधान बजट में किया गया है, उसके लिए मैं अपनी ओर से और किसानों की ओर से उनके प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। भारत की अर्थ-व्यवस्था का आधार कृषि की मेहनत पर टिका है। दुर्भाग्य है कि जिस देश की अर्थव्यवस्था कृषि पर आधारित है, जो वर्ग अपनी आर्थिक गतिविधि के अलाभकारी होने के कारण आत्महत्याएं करने को विवश है, वर्तमान बजट में सरकार ने विकास के लिए एजेंडा तैयार किया है और इस एजेंडा को आगे बढ़ाने के लिए दस स्तम्भ चिन्हित किये हैं। किसान और कृषि इस स्तम्भ की सूची में प्रथम स्थान पर हैं, इसलिए मैं अपनी ओर से सरकार के प्रति और आदरणीय नरेन्द्र मोदी जी के प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। कृषि और उसके सहायक उद्योग के विकास के लिए 56,992 करोड़ रू. की आवंटित राशि, पिछली सरकार के द्वारा आवंटित राशि से कई गुणा ज्यादा है। इसलिए मैं अपने प्रधानमंत्री महोदय के प्रति बार-बार आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। इस राशि का उपयोग खाद्यान्नों की उपज दर बढ़ाने के लिए किया जाये। इसका नियमित सरकार कृषि संबंधित शोध और अन्वेषण करने वाली संस्थाओं को दायित्व दे, ताकि वह देश की क्षमता, दक्षता और आवश्यकता एवं जलवायु की अनुकूलता के अनुसार उपयुक्त बीज खाद और उत्पादन की कई नई तकनीक का शोध करें। मैं देखता हूं कि देश में वैज्ञानिकी खोजों के परिणाम और किसानों द्वारा खेतों में प्राप्त किये गये परिणाम में भारी अंतर होता है। व्यवस्था कायम कर इस अंतर को राष्ट्रीय स्तर पर कम करने का दायित्व सरकार का है। शोधशाला, शोध इत्यादि के परिणाम प्राप्त करता है, अर्थात् जो उपज दर प्राप्त करता है, वह उपज दर खेत में भी प्राप्त हो, इसके लिए सरकार को व्यवस्था करनी चाहिए। गरीब परिवारों के लिए सरकार ने स्वास्थ्य और शिक्षा पर विशेष बल दिया है। स्वास्थ्य और शिक्षा के सुधार में भी उन्होंने भिन्न-भिन्न प्रकार के उपाय किये हैं, इसलिए भी मैं उन्हें अपनी ओर से आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। मैं सीतामढ़ी से चुनकर आया हूं। वह मां जानकी की जन्म की स्थली है। उन्होंने रामायण सर्किट में सीतामढ़ी को शामिल किया है, इसके लिए बजट में प्रावधान किया गया है। इसके लिए मैं उनके प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ अपनी और राष्ट्रीय समता पार्टी की ओर से इस बजट का समर्थन करता हूं। श्री गणेश सिंह ( सतना ) : सभापति महोदय, मैं आपका आभारी हूं कि आपने मुझे बजट पर बोलने का अवसर दिया है। बजट 2017-18 इस देश के लिए वरदान साबित हुआ है। हमारे देश की वर्तमान परिस्थिति से हर कोई वाकिफ़ है। देश के लोग कैसे जी रहे हैं, क्या उनकी जरूरत है, आज तक पहले के किसी शासक ने इसे समझने की कोशिश नहीं की। वे सिर्फ नारे लगाते रहे, वोट लेते रहे और देश जहां का तहां खड़ा रह गया। वर्ष 2014 में जब देश के प्रधानमंत्री नरेन्द्र भाई मोदी बने, तो उन्होंने अपनी प्रतिबद्धताओं के कारण इस देश को सही दिशा में ले जाने का प्रयास किया है। उन्होंने अपनी प्राथमिकतायें शुरू में तय की थी। जब वह पहले दिन इस सदन में आये थे, तब उन्होंने एक बात कही थी कि हमारी सरकार गरीबों की सरकार होगी, गांव-गरीबों की होगी, किसानों की होगी, युवाओं की होगी और प्राथमिकता के रूप में हमारी सरकार महिलाओं की सशक्तीकरण के लिए काम करेगी। वर्ष 2017-18 का बजट उसी दिशा में आगे बढ़ा है। 31 दिसम्बर, 2016 को जब प्रधानमंत्री जी का भाषण हुआ था, तब उन्होंने अपनी प्राथमिकतायें तय की थीं, निर्धनों के लिए आवास, किसानों को राहत और उनकी आमदनी को दोगुना करना, सूक्ष्म लघु एवं मध्यम उद्यमी को ऋण सहायता देना, रोजगार उपलब्ध कराना, डिजिटल लेन-देन को प्रोत्साहन देना, गर्भवती माताओं और वरिष्ठ नागरिकों को सहायता देना, मुद्रा योजना को प्राथमिकता प्रदान करना और गरीबी उन्मूलन के लिए अधिक व्यय करने की बात उन्होंने कही थी। यह बजट उसी पर आधारित है। वर्ष 2017-18 का बजट, वर्ष 2016-17 के बजट की तुलना में 25.4 प्रतिशत अधिक है। राज्यों को इस बार पहले की तुलना में 94,744 करोड़ रूपये अधिक दिये गये। इस बार राज्यों को केन्द्रीय कर की कुल 10,85,075 करोड़ रू. मिलने वाला है। वास्तव में, यह क्रांतिकारी निर्णय है। पहले की सरकार ने इसके बारे में कभी सोचा भी नहीं, करना तो बहुत दूर रहा। वित्त मंत्री जी ने ट्रांसपोर्ट सैक्टर में 2.41 करोड़ लाख रू. दिये। भारत नेट प्रोजेक्ट में दस हजार करोड़ रुपया दिया। रक्षा बजट में 2.7 लाख करोड़ रुपए दिए। मनरेगा में 48 हजार करोड़ रुपया बढ़ाकर दिया। हरित क्रांति के लिए 13741 करोड़ रुपया, श्वेत क्रांति के लिए 1434 करोड़ रुपया, नीली क्रांति के लिए 401 करोड़ रुपए दिए। प्रधानमंत्री सिंचाई योजना में 7377 करोड़ रुपए दिए। सड़क योजना में 19 हजार करोड़ रुपए, आवास योजना में 2943 करोड़ रुपए दिए। राष्ट्रीय पेयजल योजना में 6050 करोड़ रुपया, स्वच्छ भारत अभियान में 16248 करोड़ रुपया दिया। ऐसी बहुत-सी उपलब्धियां हैं, लेकिन मैं समय की कमी के कारण पूरी तरह से सदन के सामने नहीं रख पाऊंगा। महोदय, एक मुद्रा बैंक योजना है, जिससे ढाई करोड़ से ज्यादा लोगों को अभी तक रोजगार के लिए पैसा मिला है और रोजगार के नए अवसर पैदा हुए हैं। इस बार 2.44 लाख करोड़ रुपयों का प्रावधान बढ़ाकर किया गया है। यह अपने आप में बड़ी बात है। कौशल विकास योजना में 4079 करोड़ रुपया दिया गया। फसल बीमा योजना जैसी कारगर योजना आज तक कभी आई नहीं है। इस बार चालीस परसेंट इस योजना का क्षेत्र बढ़ाया जा रहा है। हमारे प्रधानमंत्री जी ने किसानों के लिए दस लाख करोड़ रुपए इस बार बजट में ऋण का प्रावधान रखा है और इससे निश्चित तौर पर उनकी जो कल्पना है कि किसानों की आमदनी दोगुना बढ़े, वह स्वाभाविक तौर पर बढ़ेगी। पहले प्राकृतिक आपदा में 50 प्रतिशत नुकसान होने पर मुआवजा मिलता था, जबकि अब नुकसान की सीमा 35 परसेंट कर दी गई है। हमारा विदेशी मुद्रा का भंडार बढ़ा है। कृषि के क्षेत्र में 42478 करोड़ रुपए से 51026 करोड़ रुपए कर दिया गया है। अभी तक हम देखते थे कि खेती का विषय सबसे अंत में रहता था, लेकिन मोदी जी की सरकार में पहली बार देखने को मिला कि खेती को उन्होंने प्राथमिकता दी है। जिस देश में 70 फीसदी लोग खेती के काम में लगे हैं और उनका बजट कम हो, तो यह बहुत दुर्भाग्य की बात थी। आज हमारे देश में कृषि विकास दर  2.2 परसेंट से बढ़कर 4.2 परसेंट तक पहुंच चुकी है, यह अपने आप में बहुत बड़ी उपलब्धि है। सिंचाई योजना में भी ज्यादा पैसे का प्रावधान किया गया, जिससे कि हम ड्रिप इर्रीगेशन की तरफ आगे बढ़ें हैं। मैं मध्य प्रदेश के कुछ महत्वपूर्ण विषयों की तरफ आपका ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहता हूं। वर्ष 2016-17 में विभिन्न योजनाओं में जो पैसा प्रदेश को मिला था, उसमें से 24434 करोड़ रुपया अभी बकाया है, वह नहीं मिला है। श्री मेघवाल जी सदन में बैठे हैं। मेरी प्रार्थना है कि मध्य प्रदेश को यह पैसा जरूर दिला दें, ताकि केंद्र सहायता प्राप्त योजनाओं को जल्द पूरा किया जा सके। आपने इस बार रेलवे में तीर्थ दर्शन गाड़ियां शुरू करने की बात कही है। मैं आपसे प्रार्थना करता हूं कि मेहर हमारा सतना लोक सभा क्षेत्र का बहुत बड़ा तीर्थस्थल है, चित्रकूट एक बड़ा तीर्थस्थल है। वहां से कुछ ट्रेनें चला दीजिए। मैंने पहले भी कहा था कि सतना से मुम्बई के लिए और रामेश्वरम के लिए एक ट्रेन मांगी थी। मुझे विश्वास है कि इस बार आप यह ट्रेन जरूर दे देंगे। इसी तरह से चित्रकूट में, जहां भगवान राम ने साढ़े ग्यारह वर्ष तक बनवासकाल बिताया था, इस जगह करोड़ों लोग आते हैं। इस जगह को तीर्थस्थल घोषित किया जाए और वहां जो 84 कोसी परिक्रमा है, जहां लाखों लोग जाते हैं, लेकिन वहां सुविधाएं नहीं हैं। पयर्टन की दृष्टि से देखें तो वहां सड़कें नहीं हैं, दूसरे संसाधन नहीं हैं। हमने पचास करोड़ रुपयों का एक प्रोजेक्ट बनाकर पर्यटन मंत्रालय को भेजा है। आप पर्यटन मंत्रालय से उसकी स्वीकृति दिलाने की मांग करता हूँ। सतना के पास हमारे क्षेत्र में नरोहिल पहाड़ है। इस पहाड़ में बहुत दुर्लभ प्रजातियों के जीव-जंतु और वनस्पतियां हैं। हमारे यहां शासकीय महाविद्यालय है। वहां के बच्चे उधर प्रैक्टिकल प्रयोगशाला के लिए जाते हैं। अगर इस पहाड़ को जैव विविधता पार्क के रूप में विकसित कर दिया जाए, तो बहुत बड़ी उपलब्धि उस क्षेत्र के लिए हो जाएगी। प्रदेश सरकार ने व्हाइट टाइगर सफारी बनाया है। जो विश्व का अकेला व्हाइट टाइगर सफारी है, लेकिन इसे राष्ट्रीय बाघ संरक्षण में नहीं जोड़ा गया है। मेरी आपसे प्रार्थना है कि आप इसे राष्ट्रीय बाघ संरक्षण में जोड़कर वित्तीय सहायता दें। माननीय सांसद राकेश सिंह के क्षेत्र में बरगी बांध है, लेकिन उसका पानी हमारे यहां आना है। डेढ़ लाख हैक्टेयर से ज्यादा भूमि की सिंचाई होनी है, लेकिन इसे राष्ट्रीय परियोजना में शामिल नहीं किया गया है, इसलिए इसे वित्तीय संरक्षण कम मिलता है। मैं चाहता हूं कि इस बार प्रधानमंत्री सिंचाई योजना में शामिल करके उसका संरक्षण किया जाए। हमारे यहाँ मंदाकिनी, पैसुनी, सतना और सिमरावल नदियाँ हैं। हम इन नदियों का संरक्षण चाहते हैं। हमारे मुख्यमंत्री जी ने एक बहुत बड़ा अभियान अपने हाथ में लेकर नर्मदा सेवा यात्रा का अभियान शुरू किया है। जिसमें लाखों लोग जुड़े और यह एक जनांदोलन बन गया। नर्मदा नदी के दोनों तरफ के पांच किलोमीटर के ऐरिया में मद्य निषेध एवं किसान खुद जाकर वृक्षारोपण कर रहे हैं और उसके संरक्षण के लिए काम कर रहे हैं। यह एक जनांदोलन बन चुका है। हम चाहते हैं कि भारत सरकार इस कार्य में और हमारे यहाँ जो पवित्र नदियाँ हैं, उनके संरक्षण में हमारी मदद करे। माननीय सभापति : अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। श्री गणेश सिंह : महोदय, आप तो समझ सकते हैं। माननीय सभापति : आप अच्छा बोलते हैं, इसलिए आपको दो मिनट ज्यादा दिए जा चुके हैं। श्री गणेश सिंह : महोदय, मैं बस एक-दो उदाहरण बताना चाहता हूँ। 17 मंत्रालय ऐसे हैं, जिनमें 84 योजनाओं में डायरैक्ट बैनिफिट ट्रांसफर योजना के तहत 32 करोड़ लोगों को 1,56,000 करोड़ रुपए सीधे दिया गया है। यह मैं उन लोगों को बताना चाहता हूँ जो कहते हैं कि यह सरकार क्या कर रही है। यह सरकार जहाँ एक ओर भ्रष्टाचार को खत्म कर रही है, वहीं साथ ही साथ यह सरकार स्वच्छता शुचिता ला रही है और उसके चलते प्रति व्यक्ति लोगों की आमदनी बढ़ाने का काम कर रही है। इससे बिचौलियों का काम खत्म हो रहा है। माननीय सभापति : आप अपनी बाकी की बात लिखकर के दे दीजिए। श्री गणेश सिंह : मैं प्रधानमंत्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी की दृष्टि और उनके संकल्प को पूरा करने का काम हमारे वित्त मंत्री जी ने इस बजट में किया है, इसके लिए उनका धन्यवाद करता हूँ। *श्रीमती रंजनबेन भट्ट (वडोदरा) ः संसदीय क्षेत्र में प्रवास के दौरान आम जनता और प्रबुद्धजनों के बीच बजट के संबंध में यह विचार सुनने को मिला कि इस वर्ष का बजट नौजवानों, दलितों, पिछड़े वर्गों, गांवों, किसानों और व्यापारियों के हितों का विशेष ध्यान रखते हुए प्रस्तुत किया जाना चाहिए। मुझे खुशी है कि हमारे वित्त मंत्री माननीय श्री ए.के. जेटली जी ने आम लोगों की आकांक्षा के अनुरूप ही बजट प्रस्तुत किया है, इसके लिए मैं उनको साधुवाद देती हूं। नौजवानौं के लिए शिक्षा प्राप्ति से लेकर रोजगार का अवसर उपलब्ध कराने की ओर विशेष ध्यान दिया गया है। मेडिकल में सीटें बढ़ाने के साथ-साथ मेडिकल और इंजिनियरिंग परीक्षा के लिए राष्ट्रीय परीक्षा एजेंसी बनाने का फैसला करने से छात्रों में खुशी की लहर पैदा हुई है, क्योंकि अब उनको अलग-अलग आवेदन शुल्क नहीं देना पड़ेगा। सरकार ने शिक्षा को बढ़ावा देने के लिए नए शैक्षिक संस्थान खोलने की भी घोषणा की है। यू.जी.सी. में सुधार से उच्च शिक्षा की स्थिति भी बेहतर होगी। इस बजट में रोजगार को भी बढ़ावा मिलेगा। 350 करोड़ युवाओं को कौशल प्रशिक्षण का प्रावधान किया गया है। इस बजट में कृषि और किसानों पर विशेष ध्यान दिया गया है, जो सर्वथा उचित है क्योंकि हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था कृषि आधारित होने की वजह से अर्थव्यवस्था को मजबूती मिलना आवश्यक है। मेरे विचार से काफी लंबे समय के बाद बजट में कृषि और किसानों के हितों पर खासतौर से ध्यान दिया गया है। सरकार ने किसानों की आय पांच साल में दोगुनी करने का लक्ष्य रखा है, जिसके लिए किसान भी खुश नजर आ रहे हैं। इस बजट से गांव और शहर साथ-साथ तरक्की करने की राह पर चल पड़े हैं। जहां एक ओर सभी घरों को बिजली देने की घोषणा की गई है, वहीं 2019 तक कच्चे घरों में रहने वाले एक करोड़ लोगों के लिए पक्का मकान बनाने की घोषणा सराहनीय कदम है। मनरेगा पर अब तक का अधिकतम 48 करोड़ का खर्च करने का प्रावधान है। महिलाओं के लिए भी इस बजट में काफी कार्यक्रम बनाने का प्रावधान किया गया है। 14 लाख आंगनबाड़ी पर महिला शव्ति केन्द्र बनाए जाने के लिए सरकार की घोषणा एक सराहनीय कदम है। इसके लिए 500 करोड़ का प्रावधान किया गया है। गर्भवती महिलाओं को छः हजार रूपए देने की घोषणा स्वागत योग्य है क्योंकि इससे मातृ एवं शिशु मृत्यु दर में कमी आयेगी। देश में अधिकांश महिलायें रव्त अल्पता की शिकार हैं और उनके बच्चे भी कमजोर होते हैं। इस धनराशि से महिलायें पौष्टिक आहार ले सकेंगी। स्वास्थ्य के नजरिये से यह बजट बहुत ही प्रशंसनीय है। स्वास्थ्य बीमा से गरीब भी बेहतर इलाज करा सकेंगे। इसकी जरूरत भी है। एम.बी.बी.एस. की 5 हजार सीट बढ़ने से डॉक्टरों की कमी पूरी होगी। देश के विभिन्न भागों में एम्स खुलेंगे तो लोगों को इलाज के लिए दिल्ली या मुंबई जाने की आवश्यकता नहीं होगी। साथ ही, सरकार द्वारा चेचक 2018 तक, टी.बी. 2022 तक तथा अन्य रोगों को समाप्त करने की घोषणा सराहनीय है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने गुजरात राज्य में एक एम्स की स्थापना इस बजट में करने का प्रावधान किया है। इसके लिए मैं उनका हृदय से अभिनन्दन करती हूं। कर्मचारी भी इस बजट का गुणगान कर रहे हैं क्योंकि आयकर की सीमा में बढ़ोत्तरी तथा स्लैब में राहत मिलने के कारण उनकी आमदनी का काफी हिस्सा बच जाएगा। यह बजट दलितों और पिछड़े वर्गों को भी काफी कुछ देने वाला है। छोटे व्यापारियों को भी इस बजट ने काफी राहत प्रदान किया है। बजट प्रस्तुत करते ही शेयर बाजार में उछाल आना इस बात को प्रमाणित करता है कि यह बजट व्यापार करने वालों के लिए राहत भरा है। बजट में वरिष्ठ नागरिकों और दिव्यांगों को भी राहत प्रदान किया गया है। रेलवे के लिए यह बजट खास है। 93 वर्ष बाद इसे आम बजट में शामिल किया गया है। आज भारतीय रेल के सामने कई मुश्किलें हैं। जैसे- यात्री सुविधाओं को बढ़ाना, रेल क्षमता के मामले में अपने सुनहरे इतिहास को दोहराना, राजस्व बढ़ाना, खर्चे कम करना, माल ढुलाई के लिए कारोबारियों के भरोसे को जीतना। इस संदर्भ में बजट में अच्छी तस्वीर है। यह आशापूर्ण बजट है और निश्चित रूप से इससे रेलवे को गति मिलेगी। राष्ट्रीय रेल संरक्षा कोष बनाने की भी बात है जिसमें एक लाख करोड़ रूपए डाले जाएंगे। इस प्रकार पूरे बजट का सिंहावलोकन करने पर लगता है कि ऐसा कोई वर्ग नहीं बचता है जिसको इस बजट में राहत न दी गई हो। यद्यपि यह बजट दीर्घकालिक है और इसका प्रभाव अभी दिखाई नहीं दे रहा है लेकिन निश्चित रूप से इसका प्रभाव थोड़े समय में दिखाई पड़ना प्रारंभ हो जाएगा। इसलिए एक बार पुनः इस बजट का समर्थन करते हुए और वित्त मंत्री को ऐसा बजट पेश करने के लिए धन्यवाद देती हूं। *श्रीमती वीणा देवी (मुंगेर)ःमाननीय वित्त मंत्री जी द्वारा पेश ऐतिहासिक सामान्य बजट- 2017-18 पर मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देती हूँ और समर्थन करती हूँ। मेरा लोक सभा क्षेत्र मुंगेर, जो क्रमशः पटना ग्रामीण, लखीसराय और मुंगेर जिले में है, बिहार राज्य में सबसे पिछड़ा क्षेत्र है इसलिए सामान्य बजट में मुंगेर पर ज्यादा ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। मैं अपने लोक सभा क्षेत्र के लिए बिन्दुवार विवरण निम्न प्रकार से है- 1.    बिहार राज्य के 9 जिलों-पटना, लखीसराय, मुंगेर, शेखपुरा, जमुई, नालन्दा, नवादा, गया व भागलपुर तक फैला 1062 स्क्वायर किलोमीटर टाल का भू-भाग, जिसका केशमेन्ट क्षेत्र 13,340 स्क्वायर किलोमीटर है, दलहन की अधिकतम उपज के लिए अनुकूल है। हाल ही में, एक अध्ययन दल की रिपोर्ट से यह तथ्य प्रकाश में आया है कि स क्षेत्र में दलहन की उपज से दलहन संबंधी देश की 50 प्रतिशत आवश्यकता पूरी हो सकती है। यह राष्ट्रीय समस्या है जिसका समाधान इस टाल क्षेत्र में से 15 सेंटीमीटर पानी आने की समस्या के समाधान के लिए डैम बनाकर पानी का संग्रह व पुनः राष्ट्रीय दलहन अभाव को समाप्त करने के लिए अतिरिव्त बजट देने की आवश्यकता है। 2.    लोक सभा क्षेत्र मुंगेर नक्सल और बाढ़ प्रभावित है और नक्सली हमले के दौरान घायल हुए बल के जवानों व स्थानीय नागरिकों के इलाज में बहुत देरी होने पर जन क्षति होती है। इसलिए मेरे लोक सभा क्षेत्र मुंगेर में क्रमशः मुंगेर व लखीसराय में केन्द्रीय स्तर के अस्पताल की अत्यंत आवश्यकता है तथा मोकामा, जिला-पटना में बंद हो रहे नाजरथ अस्पताल के लिए केन्द्रीय बजट द्वारा चालू किए जाने से मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र में स्वास्थ्य की समस्या का निदान हो सकता है। अतः बजट में अतिरिव्त धनराशि आवंटित की जाए। 3.    सामान्य बजट- 2017-18 में किसानों की आय दोगुनी करने का फैसला किया गया है। मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र में कोई बड़ा कल-कारखाना नहीं है, केवल खेती पर ही आधारित है एवं ज्यादातर क्षेत्र पहाड़ी क्षेत्र है। क्षेत्र के विकास के लिए सौर ऊर्जा आधारित सिंचाई हेतु अतिरिव्त बजट आवंटित किया जाए। 4.    मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र मुंगेर के अंतर्गत लखीसराय में केन्द्रीय विद्यालय का कोई भवन नहीं है। इसलिए केन्द्रीय विद्यालय भवन हेतु अलग से बजट आवंटित किया जाए। 5.    मेरा संसदीय क्षेत्र 180 किलोमीटर लंबा और लगभग 500 किलोमीटर क्षेत्र में फैला है और पूरे क्षेत्र में गंगा नदी है। इसलिए हर साल बाढ़ से जन-धन व मवेशी का नुकसान ग्रामीणों को उठाना पड़ता है जिसकी भरपाई में पूरा साल बीत जाता है। इसलिए मेरी मांग है कि बाढ़ से प्रभावित होने वाले इलाकों में जन-धन एवं मवेशी की रक्षा के लिए अलग से बजट दिया जाए। अतः माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से उपरोव्त बिन्दुओं के लिए सामान्य बजट-2017-18 में अतिरिव्त धनराशि देने की मांग करते हुए सामान्य बजट-2017-18 का समर्थन करती हूं। *श्री आलोक संजर (भोपाल) ः केन्द्रीय बजट 2017-18 पर चर्चा चल रही है, हम भी सुधारों पर जोर देने वाले बजट के समर्थन में अपने विचार रख रहा हूं।  शायद किसी ने भी नहीं सोचा होगा कि वर्ष 2017 का आम बजट देश में बड़े राजनीतिक सुधार की राह तैयार करेगा ।  वाकई देश के यशस्वी प्रधानमंत्री श्री मोदी जी के नेतृत्व वाली सरकार के वित्त मंत्री श्री जेटली जी ने अपने बजट भाषण में देश की भावी आर्थिक तस्वीर की झलक तो दिखायी है कि राजनीतिक सुधारों का सिलसिला अब शुरू होने वाला है ।  वित्त मंत्री जी ने आम बजट में यह स्पष्ट किया कि अब राजनीतिक दल दो हजार रूपये से अधिक की राशि अनाम स्त्रोत के रूप में प्राप्त नहीं कर पायेंगे, पहले यह सीमा 20,000/- रूपये थी ।  सचमुच वर्तमान सरकार ने यह क्रांतिकारी कदम उठाया है ।  देश की आर्थिक बुनियाद को और अधिक मजबूत करने के लिए यह आवश्यक और महत्वपूर्ण कदम है ।  इस बजट के माध्यम से वित्त मंत्री जी ने अपना व अपनी सरकार का इरादा स्पष्ट कर दिया कि वह उन आशंकाओं को समाप्त करना चाहती है कि नोट बंदी के फलस्वरूप देश की विकास दर में कमी आ सकती है ।  लेकिन सरकार की मंशा साफ है-अगर सरकार बुनियादी ढ़ाचे में खर्च बढ़ाती है तो न केवल रोजगार के अवसर बढ़ेगें, बल्कि विकास की रफ्तार भी तेज होगी ।  मोदी जी की सरकार की प्राथमिकता शुरू से यही रही है कि रोजगार के अवसर बढ़े, इसकी झलक हम देखना चाहे तो आर्थिक सर्वेक्षण में देखने में मिलेगी और इस आम बजट में देखने को मिल रही है । वर्ष 2017 में देश के सामने ऐसा बजट आया है कि जो बुनियादी बातों को लेकर वृहद चित्र पेश कर रहा है । महोदया, इस बजट की सबसे बड़ी बात यह है कि देश की आम जनता को लोक लुभावन सपने नहीं दिखाये गये हैं बल्कि सुधारों को प्राथमिकता दी गयी है।  यह साबित करके दिखाया है कि  देश को सही आर्थिक दिशा में ले जाना ही प्रमुख एजेंडा है । महत्वपूर्ण है कि रोजगार के सृजन पर मोदी सरकार का स्पष्ट जोर है, कपड़ा क्षेत्र के साथ ही चमड़ा और फुटवियर उद्योगों में रोजगार सृजन की योजना, देश भर में 600 से ज्यादा जिलों में प्रधानमंत्री कौशल केंद्रों का विस्तार अतुल्य भारत के माध्यम से विश्व में पर्यटन और रोजगार बढ़ाने के लिए योजना प्रमुख है ।  बजट की विशेषता है कि कृषि तथा गांव की अर्थव्यवस्था पर नये सिरे से ध्यान देना भी है, तभी इस क्षेत्र से जुड़े लोगों के लिए बजट का आवंटन करीब 25 प्रतिशत बढ़ा दिया गया है ।  आम बजट 2017-18 में वित्त मंत्री जी ने अनुसूचित जाति, अनुसूचित जनजातियों और अल्पसंख्यकों की कल्याण योजनाओं के क्रियान्वयन पर विशेष महत्व दिया है ।  अनुसूचित जातियों के लिए आबंटन 38,883 करोड़ रूपये से बढ़ाकर 52,393 रूपये किया है जो लगभग 35 औ अधिक है । अनुसूचित जनजातियों के लिए आबंटन बढ़ाकर 31,920 करोड़ रूपये किया है । अल्पसंख्यक मामलों के लिए आबंटन बढ़ाकर 4,195 करोड़ रूपये किया है । -महिला और बाल कल्याण के लिए आबंटन को बढ़ाकर 1,84,632 रूपये किया गया है, 14 लाख आईसीडीएस आंगनवाड़ी केन्द्रों  में 500 करोड़ रूपये के आबंटन के साथ-साथ गांव स्तर पर महिला शक्ति केंद्र स्थापित करना । अगले चार सालों में अर्सेनिक और फ्लोराइड प्रभावित 28 हजार गांवों को सुरक्षित पेयजल आपूर्ति का प्रस्ताव किया है ,  जो कि राष्ट्रीय ग्रामीण पेयजल कार्यक्रम के तहत कराया जायेगा। अंत में वर्तमान बजट, मोदी जी की सरकार का बजट, वित्त मंत्री श्री जेटली जी की दूरदर्शिता का बजट एक संतुलित बजट है, हम गर्व से कह सकते हैं कि यह बजट देश की अर्थव्यवस्था को जड़ों से मजबूत करेग, देश के विकास के लिए छोटे टैक्स दाताओं को टैक्स बेनिफिट एमएसएमई और इंफ्रा को अफोर्डेबल हाउसिंग का दर्जा इस बजट की विशेषता है ।  यह बजट शायद संकेत देगा कि हमारा भारत आखिरकार  परिपक्व और स्थिर अर्थव्यवस्था के रूप में विकसित हो रहा है । *श्री रोड़मल नागर (राजगढ़)ःवर्ष 2017-18 के लिए पेश किया गया केन्द्रीय बजट स्पष्ट रूप से इस बात का ध्योतक है कि भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था ऐसे समय पर आगे बढ़ रही है जिस समय वैश्विक अर्थव्यवस्था को गंभीर चुनौतियों का सामना करना पड़ रहा है। अगर देखा जाए तो हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था सभी क्षेत्रों में तेजी से उच्च विकास दर की ओर बढ़ रही है। किसी ने सोचा भी  नहीं था कि एक आम बजट देश में बड़े राजनीतिक सुधार की राह तैयार करेगा। हमारे वित्तमंत्री मा. अरुण जेटली जी ने आम बजट में यह एलान कर दिया है कि अब राजनीतिक दल दो हजार रुपए से अधिक की राशि अनाम स्रोत के रूप में प्राप्त नहीं कर पाएंगे, पहले यह सीमा 20 हजार रूपए थी। अगर हम 2014 के पूर्व सरकार के कार्यों का मूल्यांकन करें तो हमें ज्ञात होगा कि ऐसा विचार शायद उनके पास नहीं था, और था तो उसे लागू करने की एक मजबूत इच्छाशव्ति का अभाव था। मैं यह समझता हूँ कि एक विकसित और उन्नतशील देश बनाने के लिए योजनाएं, नियम, निर्णय तो होता ही है, लेकिन सबसे महत्वपूर्ण यह होता है कि योजनाएं, नियम, निर्णय करने वाले शासक की इच्छाशव्ति कैसी है। बजट के संदर्भ में अब तमाम समीक्षाएं होंगी, लेकिन मेरी निगाह में यह एक क्रांतिकारी बजट है, जो बड़े बदलाव का मार्ग प्रशस्त करेगा। इस निष्कर्ष पर पहुंचने के कुछ कारण है-एक कारण तो राजनीतिक फंडिंग में साफ-सफाई होगी, तो दूसरी ओर रोजगार के सृजन पर सरकार का जोर और कृषि तथा गांव की अर्थव्यवस्था पर नए सिरे से ध्यान देना है, भ्रष्टाचार से मुव्ति और पारदर्शिता के लिए डिजीटलीकरण पर फोकस है। जैसा कि आम बजट में यह बताया गया है कि 20 जनवरी, 2017 की स्थिति के अनुसार हमारा विदेशी मुद्रा भंडार 361 बिलियन अमरीकी डालर हो गया है, जो लगभग 12 महीनों तक आयात के लिए एक आसान कवर निरुपित करता है, जिसके कारण हम अन्य देशों की निर्भरता की स्थिति से उबर सकेंगे। हमारा देश विश्व में छठा सबसे विनिर्माणकारी देश बन गया है, जो पहले यह नौंवे स्थान पर था। अब हमारे देश को वैश्विक विकास के प्रेरक के रूप में देखा जाने लगा है। वस्तु एवं सेवा कर- (जीएसटी) को संविधान विधेयक पारित कराकर और इसके शुरुआत हेतु प्रगति और उच्च मूल्य वर्ग के बैंक नोटों को विमुद्रीकरण करने के लिए इस बजट में प्रावधान किया गया है। गरीबों के लिए आवास, किसानों को राहत, एमएसएमई को क्रेडिट सहायता, डिजिटल लेन-देन प्रोत्साहित करना, गर्भवती महिलाओं और वरिष्ठ नागरिकों को सहायता, मुद्रा योजना के तहत दलितों, जनजातियों, पिछड़े वर्गों  और महिलाओं को प्राथमिकता हमारी अर्थव्यवस्था के मुख्य सरोकारों से समाधान पर फोकस करते हुए माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी के द्वारा 31 दिसम्बर, 2016 को घोषणा की गई। शासन की गुणवत्ता और हमारी जनता के जीवन स्तर को बदलना तथा समाज के विभिन्न वर्गों विशेषतः युवकों और कमजोर तबकों में ऊर्जा का संचार करना और उन्हें उनकी क्षमता से परिचित कराना और देश में भ्रष्टाचार, काला धन और अपारदर्शी राजनीति फंडिंग की बुराइयों को समाप्त करना हमारी सरकार की इस बजट में प्राथमिकता रहेगी। वर्ष 2017-18 में, कृषि संबंधी क्रेडिट को 10 लाख करोड़ रुपए के रिकार्ड स्तर पर नियत किया गया है तथा किसानों को 31 दिसम्बर, 2016 को की गई 60 दिन की ब्याज माफी का लाभ मिलेगा। छोटे किसानों को ऋण प्रवाह सुनिश्चित करने के लिए सरकार जिला मध्यवर्ती सहकारी बैंकों की ओर बैंकिंग प्रणाली के साथ सभी 63000 कार्यरत प्राथमिक कृषि क्रेडिट सोसायटियों के कम्प्यूटरीकरण करना हमारी सरकार की प्राथमिकता रहेगी। फसल बीमा योजना के तहत व्याप्ति का दायरा 2017-18 में बढ़ाकर 40 प्रतिशत और 2018-19 में 50 प्रतिशत किया जाएगा। इसके लिए 9000 करोड़ रुपए का बजट में प्रावधान किया गया है। मनरेगा के अंतर्गत कृषि से जुड़े मार्च 2017 तक 10 लाख तालाबों का कार्य पूरा कर लिया जाएगा और मनरेगा में महिलाओं की भागीदारी 48 प्रतिशत से बढ़कर 55 प्रतिशत हो गई है, मनरेगा के लिए आवंटन अब तक का सर्वाधिक 48000 करोड़ रुपए होगा। गरीब परिवारों को प्राकृतिक आपदा से उनके घरों व घरेलू सामानों की हानि की भरपाई के लिए प्रभावी सामाजिक सुरक्षा तंत्र की व्यवस्था करने के लिए 1 लाख रूपए के कवर हेतु 100 रुपए के वहनीय वार्षिक प्रीमियम पर प्रधानमंत्री आपदा बीमा योजना नामक स्कीम की शुरुआत की जाएगी जिससे उनके स्वास्थ्य संबंधी ब्यौरे निहित हो सके। 3 लाख रुपए से अधिक के किसी का भी लेन-देन को नकदी में करने की अनुमति नहीं होगी और कैशलेस व्यवस्था को प्रभावपूर्ण बनाने के लिए हरसंभव प्रयासरत रहना है, जिसके माध्यम से काला बाजारी को रोका जा सके। अंत में मैं चंद पंव्तियां कहकर अपने वव्तव्य को समाप्त करना चाहूंगा- नहीं रुकेंगे नहीं झुकेंगे बढ़ते जाएं आगे हम 

परिवर्तन की पावन आंधी लाकर ही हम लेंगे दम। राष्ट्र शव्ति के रूप को देखो अब हो रहा सवेरा है 

चलो जलाएं दीप वहां जहां अभी भी अंधेरा है।। SHRI SIRAJUDDIN AJMAL ( BARPETA ): Respected Sir, thank you very much for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Budget, 2017-18. I term this Budget, after going through it, utterly disappointing, contradictionary and a complete gimmick. It seems that the Budget is prepared keeping in mind the Assembly elections which are ensuing in U.P. 

          North-East has been totally neglected. I will tell you that it has been said that millions of houses have been proposed for the homeless but all over Assam, eviction is taking place. Poor people, who have been living in the Government land for ages, are being evicted forcibly. SHRIMATI BIJOYA CHAKRAVARTY ( GUWAHATI ): Sir, I have a point of order. He has given the wrong information to the House. … (Interruptions) माननीय सभापति :  अब आप बैठ जाइए। आप वह नियम बताइए जिसके अंतर्गत आपको प्वाइंट ऑफ आर्डर से आपत्ति है। SHRIMATI BIJOYA CHAKRAVARTY : There is eviction of minority people coming from Bangladesh illegally. SHRI SIRAJUDDIN AJMAL : Let me talk, please. She is taking my time. She is not telling the truth. There are no Bangladeshis. People have been shifted in the morning … (Interruptions) Sir, let me talk. She is taking my time. Madam, you have no humanitarian consideration. … (Interruptions) माननीय सभापति : यह बात ठीक है, लेकिन आप उन्हें बोलने दीजिए। SHRI SIRAJUDDIN AJMAL : This is a democratic country, and you all are playing like dictators. Respected Sir, may I say that people have been evicted overnight without having made any provision for their rehabilitation? They have been staying there for ages. Every year due to the flood and erosion of Brahmaputra, thousands of people are rendered homeless, and the Government has not done anything for these people till today. We do not mind uniform eviction for everyone. But, no, this is selective eviction of only the minorities. Only two communities, the Bengali- speaking Hindu people, are being evicted. That is why, she is objecting. Now, I feel that this has to be taken into consideration. Respected Sir, basically, flood and erosion is the worst problem of Assam. The AIUDF has demanded Rs.20,000 crore for flood and erosion rehabilitation, and for all the people affected by flood. Their patta land should be given in their names. This is what the AIUDF is requesting. Fund for the construction of Dhubri-Phulbari bridge is required. This issue has been going on for quite some time. Dhubri-Phulbari bridge over the river Brahmaputra will connect the States of Assam and Meghalaya with the rest of the nation. Shri Nitin Gadkari, the hon. Minister of Road Transport, has assured construction of the bridge at the earliest. So, we are hoping that the Government would announce the fund for the bridge construction immediately. I will now make it very short. I will give you 10 demands of the AIUDF so that I make it very short to give other Members also  a chance. Sir, once again, I thank you for your intervention. I urge the hon. Minister to consider my humble demands. I request you to make mandatory budgetary provision or special allocation for the North East, particularly for Assam terming as Economically Backward Zone at the earliest. I would like that the Central Government should declare flood and erosion by the Brahmaputra and its tributaries as National Calamity and ensure separate budgetary allocation for it. I request the hon. Minister to activate separate North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy now onwards. It was there till 2014. It is also requested that funds should be allocated for Re-opening of Rupsi airport in Dhubri and also other airports of Assam. Funds for modernization and development of Dhubri Port should also be allocated. I wish you to assure a separate national policy to create sufficient employment to the educated unemployed youth especially of the North East Assam. I humbly request the hon. Minister to provide budgetary allocation on the basis of Sachar Committee Recommendations regarding development of minorities and ensure required compensation and alternate rehabilitation to all the victims of all ethnic violence along with internally displaced people by river erosion in Assam. I also request you to extend railways from Bongaigaon to Amingaon via Abhayapuri, Barpeta and Haju in Assam. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude. SHRI SIRAJUDDIN AJMAL : Sir, I finish in one minute. I request the hon. Minister to allocate sufficient funds to activate all sick industries in the State including Nagaon Paper Mill, Cachar Paper Mill and Jogighopa Paper Mill. Last but not least, I request him through the Chair to set up one Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus in Assam at the earliest. With these words, I thank the hon. Chairman and conclude my speech. श्री निहाल चन्द ( गंगानगर ) : सभापति महोदय, मैं पंडित दीनदायाल उपाध्याय जन्म शताब्दी वर्ष और गुरु गोविन्द सिंह जी की 350वीं वर्षगांठ, प्रकाश पर्व हम लोग मना रहे हैं। सबका साथ, सबका विकास, भारत के इतिहास में रेल बजट और आम बजट पेश करने की 93 साल की पुरानी परम्परा को इस सरकार ने एक ऐतिहासिक और साहसिक कदम उठाकर बदला है। माननीय प्राधनमंत्री जी और माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी को मैं धन्यवाद देना चाहूँगा। बजट के समय में बदलाव कर केंद्र सरकार के साथ राज्य सरकारों को बजट आबंटन की योजनाओं को सही तरह से क्रियान्वित करने के लिए उनको उचित समय मिल सकेगा।  वर्ष 2017-18 का बजट सही मायने में भारत के किसान, मजदूर, गरीब और दलित के उत्थान के लिए है। गाँवों का किसान, मजदूर, पिछड़े तबके का विकास केंद्र सरकार की प्रतिबद्धता रही है। महोदय, मुद्रास्फीति को नियंत्रण में लाना, भारत में चालू घाटे को कम करना, अर्थव्यवस्था को फिर से विकास के पथ पर ले जाना और उसको अग्रसर करना, कालेधन के विरुद्ध देशव्यापी अभियान चलाना, भ्रष्टाचार, कालेधन, नकदी मुद्रा और आतंकवाद के फण्डीकरण हेतु विमुद्रीकरण सरकार की प्रमुख उपलब्धि रही है। महोदय, मैं समझता हूँ कि 70 प्रतिशत किसान जो खेत में काम करते हैं, इस सरकार ने उनके लिए बहुत कुछ किया है। कृषि विकास क्षेत्र में वर्ष 2014 में जब हम सरकार में आए थे, तब से लेकर आज तक इस सरकार ने किसानों के लिए हमेशा ही सोचा है। केंद्र सरकार ने किसानों को 10 लाख करोड़ रुपये का ऋण उपलब्ध कराने का प्रावाधान किया है। और 60 दिनों तक ऋण ब्याजमुक्त रहेगा, जो सबसे बड़ा काम इस सरकार ने किया है। भारतवर्ष के गाँवों में खुशहाली और समृद्धि के मार्ग खोले जा सकते हैं। देश के प्रधानमंत्री जी का विजन है कि भारत की खुशहाली का रास्ता गाँवों और खेतों से होकर गुजरता है। मैं समझता हूँ कि कृषि विकास दर जो 2 प्रतिशत के आसपास थी, उसके 5 प्रतिशत से भी ज्यादा होने का अनुमान है। महोदय, इस सरकार ने आगामी 5 वर्ष में किसानों की आय दुगुनी करने का लक्ष्य रखा है और यह जो काम केंद्र सरकार ने अपने हाथ में लिया है, इससे मुझे ऐसा महसूस हो रहा है कि किसान की आय दोगुनी होगी। मैं समझता हूँ कि किसान का संकट प्राकृतिक आपदा से ही होता है और जहां पर पकी-पकाई फसल, यदि खराब हो जाए तो किसान के लिए यह सबसे बड़ा दुर्भाग्य का विषय होता है। महोदय, केंद्र सरकार ने फसल बीमा योजना में डेढ़ प्रतिशत रबी की फसल के लिए और दो प्रतिशत खरीब की फसल के लिए प्रीमियम रखा है। मैं समझता हूँ कि किसान के लिए यह बहुत बड़ी देन है। जिन लोगों ने किसान की बात की है, उनके लिए इन्होंने क्या किया यह मुझे कहने की जरूरत नहीं है। महोदय, मैं समझता हूं कि धरती माँ की तबियत खराब हो रही है, इसके लिए देश के प्रधानमंत्री जी ने 17 फरवरी, 2015 को राजस्थान के सूरतगढ़ के अंदर एक स्वाइल हैल्थ कार्ड की शुरूआत की थी, क्योंकि धरती माँ की जो तबियत खरोब हो रही है, अगर हम उसकी तबियत को ठीक नहीं कर पाए तो मैं समझता हूँ कि धरती माँ हमेशा के लिए हमसे नाराज हो जाएगी। इसके लिए भूमि प्रशिक्षण, भूमि की उर्वरा शक्ति और क्षमता को बढ़ाने का काम अगर कोई कर सकता है तो वह सॉइल हैल्थ कार्ड कर सकता है। करीब 12 करोड़ 82 लाख सॉइल हैल्थ कार्ड्स बन चुके हैं। इस सरकार का किसानों के प्रति सबसे बड़ा और संवेदनशील कार्य यदि कोई है तो यह कार्य है। 460 प्रशिक्षण प्रयोगशालाओं को केन्द्र सरकार ने मंजूरी दी है, उनसे हमारी धरती मां की तबीयत ठीक होगी, जमीन की जांच प्रयोगशाला में होगी, उसे कितनी मात्रा में क्या चाहिए, किसान जब यह बात समझ जायेगा, उस दिन किसान के खेत की इन्कम दोगुनी होगी, इसमें मुझे कोई शंका नहीं है। महोदय, यूरिया किसान के लिए कितनी लाभदायक थी या खतरनाक थी, यह वक्त के साथ पता चलता है। लेकिन नीमकोटेड यूरिया की जो शुरूआत आदरणीय प्रधान मंत्री जी के नेतृत्व में हुई है, यह बहुत ज्यादा लाभकारी सिद्ध होगी। बठिंडा में एन.एफ.एल. का एक प्लांट है, मैंने उसे देखा था, जहां जमीन में चार प्रतिशत नाइट्रोजन होना चाहिए, वहां जमीन में 18 प्रतिशत की मात्रा में नाइट्रोजन है। जिसके कारण वहां जमीन बहुत ज्यादा खराब हुई है। मैं समझता हूं कि अगर हम नीमकोटेड यूरिया का प्रयोग करें और उस जमीन की सही जांच करायें तो वह जमीन कभी खराब नहीं हो सकती। मानव जीवन की रक्षा करना सॉइल हैल्थ कार्ड से जुड़ा हुआ विषय है। हमारे माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी ने इसे अपने हाथ में लिया था। जो हमारे बॉर्डर इलाके हैं, वहां एक भयानक स्थिति पैदा हो गई है। वहां लोगों को कैंसर, डायरिया, चिकुनगुनिया जैसी बीमारियां सबसे ज्यादा हो रही हैं। अगर उन्हें बचाने का कोई काम किया जा सकता है तो उसके लिए हम लोग धरती की जांच सही ढंग से करायें, इसके लिए प्रयोगशालाएं बनाई गई हैं। महोदय, मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि हम लोग सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक की बात कर रहे हैं और ये लोग सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक का मजाक उड़ा रहे हैं। मैं समझता हूं कि सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक का मजाक उड़ाना हम सबके लिए बहुत घातक और खतरनाक हो सकता है। कल मैं श्री देवेगौड़ा जी का भाषण सुन रहा था, उन्होंने नोटबंदी को भी सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक के साथ जोड़ दिया। मैं समझता हूं कि सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक का मजाक उड़ाना सेना के जवानों के मनोबल पर असर डालता है। माननीय सभापति :अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। श्री निहाल चन्द : सर, अभी मैंने शुरूआत की है। माननीय सभापति : आप छः मिनट बोल चुके हैं, यह तय समय से एक मिनट ज्यादा हैं। इसलिए अब आप समाप्त कीजिए। श्री निहाल चन्द :  सिर्फ पांच मिनट और बोलने दीजिए। माननीय सभापति : आप एक मिनट में समापन कर लीजिए। श्री निहाल चन्द : सर, मैं आपके माध्यम से केन्द्र सरकार से कुछ निवेदन करना चाहता हूं कि सूरतगढ़ से वाया रायसिंहनगर, करणपुर, श्रीगंगानगर, हनुमानगढ़, नोहर, भादरा, सार्दुलपुर, लुहारू, महेन्द्रगढ़, रेवाड़ी, गुड़गांव एक इंटरसिटी ट्रेन की घोषणा हुई थी, वह अभी तक चालू नहीं हुई है। 1998 में देश के तत्कालीन प्रधान मंत्री, आदरणीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी ने गजसिंहपुर से वाया पदमपुर, रावतसर, सरदारशहर, सार्दुलपुर रेल लाइन की घोषणा की थी तथा इसका सर्वे कराने की घोषणा की थी। वह भी अभी तक पैंडिंग है। इसके अलावा बीकानेर, दादर साप्ताहिक सुपरफास्ट ट्रेन की घोषणा हुई थी, लेकिन वह भी पैंडिंग है। मैं सरकार से आग्रह करना चाहता हूं कि वह इन ट्रेनों पर विशेष ध्यान दें। इसके अलावा मैं दो पाइंट्स पर और बोलना चाहता हूं, प्रथम इंदिरा गांधी कैनाल, जो एशिया महाद्वीप की सबसे बड़ी नहर है, यह नहर 1970 में बनी थी, लेकिन आज तक इसकी डीसिल्टिंग, साफ-सफाई नहीं हुई है। इसके लिए 3400 करोड़ रुपये पैंडिंग पड़े हैं। जिस दिन फाइनेंस डिपार्टमैन्ट उसकी परमीशन दे देगा, जायका से उनका एम.ओ.यू. हुआ है। मैं समझता हूं कि यह काम होना बहुत जरूरी है। दूसरा पाइंट यह है कि राजस्थान का एक सबसे महत्वपूर्ण मुद्दा यह है कि हमारे यहां सिंचाई क्षेत्र के सात जिले आते हैं। उसमें सबसे महत्वपूर्ण मुद्दा पंजाब, हरियाणा और राजस्थान के बीच पानी के वितरण का मामला है। बीबीएमबी के सदस्य के रूप में बारी-बारी से तीन राज्यों का एक-एक सदस्य हर साल नियुक्त होता था। यह केन्द्र सरकार और आदरणीय प्रधान मंत्री जी के निर्देशन में तय हुआ था, लेकिन आज तक राजस्थान का सदस्य एक बार भी नियुक्त नहीं हुआ। मैं केन्द्र सरकार से आग्रह करूंगा कि जैसे हरियाणा और पंजाब के सदस्य वहां नियुक्त होते हैं, वैसे ही राजस्थान का भी एक सदस्य हर साल नियुक्त होना चाहिए, यही मैं केन्द्र सरकार से आग्रह करता हूं। महोदय, आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपको धन्यवाद देते हुए अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। माननीय सभापति : आगे बोलने वाले वक्ता ध्यान रखें कि समय की सीमा पांच मिनट है, उसी समय में अपनी बात को समाप्त करेंगें, क्योंकि बहस के लिए बहुत सारे वक्ता हैं। *श्री राजेशभाई चुड़ासमा (जूनागढ़)ः इस बार के आम बजट को यदि सूक्ष्म और व्यापक दृष्टिकोण से देखा जाए तो यह बजट न केवल सामाजिक समावेशन की दिशा में उठाया गया अहम् कदम है, बल्कि यह वृहद रूप में देश को आधुनिक विश्व के नेतृत्वकर्ता के रूप में उभारने का दीर्घकालिक प्रयास भी है। इसमें ग्रामीण विकास है, कृषि और किसान हैं तथा समाज के उपेक्षित और वंचित वर्ग भी हैं। यह बजट उन सबके ऊपर एक करारा तमाचा है जो मोदी जी के विरोध स्वरूप उनकी गृह और विदेश नीति की अल्प ज्ञान की वजह से आलोचना करते हैं। इस बजट की मुव्त कंठ से प्रशंसा न केवल उद्योग जगत कर रहा है बल्कि गांव का किसान, मजदूर, युवा और समाज का हर वर्ग कर रहा है। मूल रूप से यह बजट "सबका साथ सबका विकास " को अमल कर रहा है, चाहे आप विपक्ष में हैं या पक्ष में। आपको यह मानना पड़ेगा कि ग्रामीण विकास और किसान तथा कृषि क्षेत्र के प्रति ऐसी मानवीय पहल और कल्याण इस बार के बजट की आत्मा है। इसके अलावा वरिष्ठ नागरिकों के लिए एलआईसी पेंशन योजना जैसे कल्याणकारी उपाय सरकार की संवेदनशीलता को भी दर्शाती है। इस बार के बजट में जहां एक तरफ ग्रामीण विकास को पर्याप्त रूप से सामिल किया गया है वही अर्थव्यवस्था के अन्य संकेतकों के प्रति भी गंभीरतापूर्वक ध्यान दिया गया है। इस बार के बजट में कर दाताओं के लिए भी बड़ी राहत दी गई है। अब 2.5 लाख से 5 लाख रूपए तक की आय पर 5 प्रतिशत टैक्स लगेगा, जो अब तक 10 प्रतिशत था। साथ ही, 50 लाख से एक करोड़ रूपया सालाना कमाने वालों को 10 प्रतिशत सरचार्ज देना होगा। इसके अलावा सरकार की आर्थिक नीतियां आज के समय में कई मायने में महत्वपूर्ण है। इसकी एक बानगी यह है कि कुछ विरोधी ऐसा कह रहे थे कि नोटबंदी का लाभ नहीं मिला, जबकि आंकड़े से यह बात सिद्ध होती है कि नोटबंदी की वजह से अधिक टैक्स जमा हुआ है, इतना टैक्स पहले कभी जमा नहीं हुआ। अब सरकार ने इस बार के बजट से यह संदेश भी दिया है कि अर्थव्यवस्था से काला धन निकालना सरकार की प्राथमिकता है। दूसरी तरफ, राजनीतिक दलों की पारदर्शिता के सवाल को भी बड़े ही साहसिक कदम से सुलझाया गया है। आज तक देश की किसी भी सरकार का इतना साहस नहीं हुआ था कि इस तरह का कदम उठा सके। आजादी के 70 वर्षों के बाद भी आज राजनीतिक दलों में चंदे की स्थिति पारदर्शी नहीं है। इसे दूर करते हुए अब ऐसी व्यवस्था की गई है कि राजनीतिक पार्टी किसी एक आदमी से सिर्फ 2000 रूपये तक ही कैश में चंदा ले सकती है। चंदे के रूप में बड़ी रकम चेक या डिजिटल माध्यम से ली जा सकती है। हर रजनीतिक दल को तय समय में अपना रिटर्न फाइल करना होगा। पार्टी फंड के लिए दानदाता बॉन्ड खरीद सकेंगे। एक अतिरिव्त कदम के रूप में, सरकार ने चुनावी बॉन्ड जारी करने के लिए कानून में संशोधन का प्रस्ताव किया है। दानदाता चेक के जरिए बॉन्ड खरीद सकते हैं और यह धनराशि किसी राजनीतिक पार्टी के पंजीकृत खाते में चली जाएगी। यह सुधार राजनीतिक वित्त पोषण में काफी पारदर्शिता लाएगा और अगली पीढ़ी के कालेधन पर रोक लगाएगा। इस बार के बजट में रेल बजट को शामिल करना देश हित की एक बड़ी पहल कही जा सकती है। इस रेल बजट में, रेलवे के लिए 1 लाख करोड़ रुपए का रेलवे सेफ्टी फंड बनाने का एलान हुआ जो रेलवे की यात्रा को सुरक्षित बनाने में उपयोगी साबित होगा। वहीं रेलवे के ई-टिकटों पर सर्विस चार्ज खत्म करने से यात्रियों के लिए ऑनलाइन रेलवे टिकट सस्ते हुए हैं। रेलवे स्वच्छता पर भी सरकार ने जोर दिया है। नई तीर्थ यात्रा ट्रेनें चलाने के फैसले से लाभ मिलेगा। सरकार ने बजट में महिलाओं युवाओं के लिए विशेष योजनाएं दी हैं। इतने कम समय में मैं बजट के सारे पहलुओं को समेट नहीं सकती किन्तु इतना अवश्य कहूंगी कि इन सभी प्रावधानों और बजटीय आवंटनों को देखकर यह  कही से भी आलोचना का अवसर नहीं देता है। फिर भी, हमारे कुछ साथी सदन में और सदन के बाहर इसकी आलोचना करते हैं तो यह उनकी विपक्ष की मजबूरी हो सकती है। मैं इन शब्दों के साथ अपनी बात समाप्त  करना चाहती हूँ कि हमारे आदर्श कुशल प्रधानमंत्री के नेतृत्व में देश बढ़ेगा किसान बढ़ेंगे और सबके साथ सबका विकास भी होगा। *श्री रवीन्द्र कुमार पाण्डेय (गिरीडीह)ःइस वर्ष के बजट का पूरे देश को बेसब्री से इंतजार थे। नोटबंदी एवं जीएसटी के ऐतिहासिक कदम के बाद रेल बजट को समाहित कर यह नया नवेला बजट बसंत पंचमी पर देश के विकास के लि मील का पत्थर साबित होगा। काले धन पर निर्णायक चोट करने वाले नोटबंदी को कुछ विपक्षी दलों को छोड़ पूरे देश ने सराहा है। वित्त मंत्री जी के आर्थिक प्रयास इस ऐतिहासिक कदम को बढ़ते विकास दर में बदलेगी। माननीय वित्त मंत्री ने अपने दस स्तंभों द्वारा देश के किसानों से शुरुआत कर डिजिटल भारत का ताना-बाना बुना है। किसानों के लिए 10 लाख करोड़ रूपए के कृषि ऋण की व्यवस्था, फसल बीमा योजना के लिए 9 हजार करोड़ की व्यवस्था, नाबार्ड एवं ई-बाजार की मजबूती किसानों के प्रति इस सरकार की प्रतिबद्धता दोहराती है। आजादी के 60-65 वर्ष बाद भी गांव के गरीब लोग, उनकी सड़कें, स्कूल एवं मकान सभी खस्ताहाल ही रहे। प्रगति की गाड़ी बहुत धीरे चली। यह सरकार गरीबों के प्रति, गांवों के प्रति, गांव के किसानों, महिलाओं एवं बच्चों के प्रति खूब सजग है-यह बात मनरेगा का बढ़ा फंड, पीएमजीएसवाई की तेजी से प्रगति, 1 करोड़ मकान का प्रस्ताव , 100 प्रतिशत ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण जैसे बजट के प्रावधान दर्शाते हैं। गांव और गांव के लोग तरक्की करेंगे, तभी देश तरक्की करेगा । इस वर्ष के बजट ने युवाओं एवं महिलाओं का भी पूरा ध्यान रखा है। माननीय मोदी जी की सरकार ने पहली बार परिवहन के सभी मंत्रालयों की सोच सहक्रियता वाली बनायी है। सभी परिवहन विभागों का विकास एक ही सोच में हो। वित्त मंत्री जी ने रेलवे, सड़कों, जलमार्गों एवं नागर विमानन सभी क्षेत्रों में निवेश की पूंजी बढ़ाई है। ये सभी विभाग पूंजी के अभाव में जरूरत के अनुसार तेजी से विकास नहीं कर पा  रहे थे। उचित वित्तीय सहयोग, रेल एवं राजमार्ग को देश के जरूरत के अनुसार तेजी से विकसित करेगा। 2017 से ही इस सरकार ने पूरे देश में आई.आई.एम., आई.आई.टी. एवं अखिल भारतीय आयुर्विज्ञान संस्थान की नई शाखाएं देश की पिछड़ी आबादी के बीच खोलने का काम किया है। इसी कड़ी में, इस वर्ष के बजट में मेरे राज्य झारखण्ड को भी अ.भा. आयुर्विज्ञान संस्थान का तोहफा देने के लिए मैं प्रधानमंत्री जी एवं वित्त मंत्री जी को झारखण्ड की जनता की ओर से कोटिशः धन्यवाद ज्ञापन करता हूँ। अब झारखंड के पास आई.आई.टी. एवं अ.भा. आयुर्विज्ञान संस्थान दोनों हो गया। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने देश के बड़े कमाई वाले लोग एवं कंपनियां एवं उनके द्वारा भरे जा रहे टैक्स का जो विवरण देश के सामने बजट के माध्यम से प्रस्तुत किया है, उसकी वाहवाही एवं चर्चा पूरे देश में हो रही है। वित्त मंत्री जी ने साबित किया है कि टैक्स भरने में कहीं न कहीं कुछ गड़बड़ है। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी बधाई के पात्र हैं कि उन्होंने बजट के प्रावधानों द्वारा कर-दाताओं को धमकाया नहीं बल्कि देश के प्रति ईमानदार एवं सहयोग का आग्रह किया है। पांच लाख से कम आय वाले नागरिक का टैक्स बोझ आधा हो गया एवं बाकियों को भी फायदा हुआ। मैं इस मुद्दे पर वित्त मंत्री के साथ हूँ कि सकारात्मक पहल से टैक्स भरने वालों की संख्या बढ़ेगी। मैं इस बजट के पक्ष में अपना विश्वास मत प्रकट करता हूँ। एन.डी.ए. सरकार की ”सबका-साथ, सबका -विकास” वाला सपना पूरा करने में यह बजट मील का पत्थर साबित होगा। *SHRI PRAKASH B. HUKKERI ( CHIKKODI ): I would like to say that the union budget is presented at an important juncture when there has been a thrust by the government for a digitised and a consequent cashless economy with the demonetization of high value currency notes undertaken in November last year. About 100 people have died for various reasons owing to this act of demonetization. But there is no compensation announced by the government for the families of deceased people due to demonetization. It has left everyone including farmers, business and salaried class disappointed without fulfilling their aspirations after the dark days of demonetization high value currencies in the country. In this year though the allocation under the MGNREGA is made to Rs. 48,000 crore, it is not sufficient as the number of household is increasing to seek jobs under the scheme. Moreover, individual worker is not going to get more work or more pay and that is a big disappointment for landless farm workers. Instead of mixtures of the works given under the programme, the government need to craft a cohesive plan to create proper infrastructure in rural areas benefiting both the community and the workers. First of all, I would like to point out that the budget exercise is a mere jugglery of words with regard to agriculture sector. Allocation of Rs. 10 lakh crore might be a phenomenal amount but when seen against the size of the farm economy and the fields of action involved, the allocation is just a pittance. There has been too much talk on crop insurance but too little has been received by the farmers who have lost their crops. Farmers are demanding the waiver of all crop loans sanctioned by nationalized banks. As per the available data about farmers of the state, they availed about Rs. 29000 crores loan from Nationalized Banks. However, the Union government has not taken any step to waive the farm loan availed by our poor farmers from the Nationalized Banks. Increasing the allocation for crop loans from Rs. 9 lakh crores to 10 lakhs crores will only keep farmers eternally debt ridden. With regard to MSP and Remunerative price, I would like to point out that there is no scientific and comprehensive mechanism put in place to fix Minimum Price and also no steps is announced for providing remunerative prices to farmers. Besides, there is no word about implementing the M.S.Swaminathan Commission recommendations on fixation of farm produce, providing for 50% profit over and above the cost of production. I would like to ask the hon'ble Finance Minister that in such a situation "how the government would achieve its object of doubling farmers income without ensuring remunerative prices for farm produce". How can it would be 'Achche Din' for our farmers. As far as farmers suicides is concerned,  I would like to draw the attention to the fact is that hundreds of our farmers committed suicides in Karnataka as well as other parts of the country due to shock over crop failure. The families of deceased farmers should be given adequate compensation to mitigate their agonies. The Budget missed out on giving any additional income tax incentives to first-time home buyers or providing higher tax savings on housing loans and house insurance premiums. Nor did it raise house rent deduction limits. In the wake of demonetization and the huge money deposited in the banks, people were looking forward to an increase in income tax exemption limit. There were also multiple requests for the revision of tax slabs pertaining to senior citizens and super senior citizens (above 80 years). However, I welcome the steps taken by the Government for giving some direct tax relaxation to the lowest income earners, and it gave clarity on the designated beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. A new Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) for the middle-income group with a provision of INR 1000 crore in 2017-18 was announced. Also, extension of tenure of loans under the CLSS of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojan (PMAY) was increased to 20 years from the existing 15 years. In the Union budget, the Government has sought to incentivize greater use on non-cash transactions for small businesses by lowering the tax rate on presumptive income to 6% from 8% for all non-cash transactions. The hon'ble Finance Minister also announced tax mobile PoS (mPoS), fingerprint readers and iris scanners. I would like to point out that the government should have given FULL exemption in taxing to incentivize users to adopt non-cash transactions for small businesses instead of lowering it from 8% to 6%. The additional expenses involved in cashless transactions, like charges imposed on online transactions and withdrawals at ATMs will be a huge burden on common man. This is an indication that the government doesn't  concern over the pain and the difficulties undergone by the people during the demonetization period. The Union Government has reduced the number of schemes for Scheduled Castes from 294 to 256. In the year 2016-17 the total schemes for Scheduled Tribes were 307. It is brought down to only 261 in 2017-18. Only 11 new schemes for SCs and 8 new schemes for STs has been introduced in 2017-18. Allocation for children in this year's budget has sadly remained unchanged. It is a dismal 3.32% of the total Budget being allocated to children. I would like to point out that there is a need for a transformational change in the education system of the country. However the allocations for children have seen a meager increase to Rs. 71,305.35 crore this year from Rs. 65,758.45 crore in 2016-17 Budget. There are 10,80,757 elementary schools in our country. The allocation for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, (SSA) in this year's budget is up from Rs. 22,500 crore to Rs. 23,500 crore. If it is distributed with the number of elementary schools, each school gets pittance. Farmers expected some big announcements for the agriculture sector- thrust on improving irrigation infrastructure including inter-linking of rivers and enhancing water storage facilities. However, no such steps are taken by the government in the budget. The Indian MSME sector contributes about 45 percent to manufacturing output and accounts for about 40 percent of exports. The sector has vast potential to transform the business landscape of India. The MSME sector, which employs 106 million people, is taking major strides in staying competitive and making the most of the opportunities that will contribute to the growth of the country's economy. However, the union budget has nothing specific to revive the struggling MSME sector. The Government had in September scrapped the 92-year old practice of presenting a separate railway budget and decided to present a combined general and railway budget for 2017-18 on 1 February 2017. Major chunk of the allocations have been made to line doubling, including Hubballi-Vaso-da-Gama (Rs. 250 crore), Hotgi-Gadag (Rs. 138 crore), Hubballi-Chikkajajur (Bengaluru line)- Rs. 198 crore, Arsikere-Tumakuru (Rs. 138 crore) and Yelahanka-Penukonda (Rs. 120 crore) under South Western Railway (SWR) 

Despite fervent demands to operationalise the new divisional office announced at Kalaburgi, only Rs. 1 lakh has been earmarked for creation of facilities under Solapur division of Central Railway. SWR got meager allocation (Rs. 3,146 crore) compared to neighbouring zones - Central Railway, Rs. 6419 crore; South Central Railway, Rs.5,598 crore and Southern Railway, Rs. 5,785 crore. माननीय सभापतः श्री संतोष कुमार जी, आप बोलिए। श्री संतोष कुमार ( पूर्णिया ) : सभापति महोदय, वर्ष 2017-18 के आम बजट की चर्चा में भाग लेने के लिए आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं अपनी पार्टी, जनता दल (युनाइटेड) और अपनी ओर से आपका आभार प्रकट करता हूं। सदन में बजट पर चर्चा चल रही है, इसमें कई उल्लेखनीय भाषण हुए हैं। विशेष रूप से हुक्मदेव बाबू ने बहुत ही अच्छा भाषण दिया है। वह हमारे गार्जियन भी हैं। सौगत दा कुछ कह रहे थे कि सन् 1977 में हुक्मदेव बाबू इस सदन के सदस्य थे और एक समाजवादी के रूप में भाषण किया करते थे, लेकिन आज वे जिधर बैठे हैं, उस ओर की बात करते हैं। इस पर श्री हरिशंकर प्रसाद जी की एक पंक्ति याद आ रही है कि - जब अर्थशास्त्र धर्मशास्त्र पर हाबी हो जाता है तो गौ रक्षा करने वाले लोग चमड़े की दुकान खोल लेते हैं। प्रधान मंत्री जी कल अपने लंबे-चौड़े भाषण में विकास की बात कर रहे थे। महोदय, आर्थिक सर्वेक्षण रिपोर्ट इस सत्र में पेश किया गया है, उसमें वर्ष 2017-18 का न्यूनतम जीडीपी लक्ष्य 6.75 प्रतिशत रखा गया है, जो कि यूपीए सरकार के सबसे खराब प्रदर्शन 6.9 प्रतिशत, जो कि वर्ष 2013-14 में था, उससे भी कम है। हमारी पार्टी जनता दल-यू ने भ्रष्टाचार और आतंकवाद के खिलाफ लड़ाई में शुरूआत से ही नोटबंदी को सैद्धांतिक समर्थन दिया था। लेकिन जो बातें सामने  आ रही हैं और जो आपके आर्थिक सर्वेक्षण रिपोर्ट से भी पता चलता है कि यह सारा तमाशा री-कैपिटलाइज़ करने के लिए हुआ था तथा बैड लोन और एनपीए की आपकी जो विफलता है, उस पर पर्दा डालने के लिए किया गया था। मतलब गलती आप करें और पचास दिन तक सजा भुगते देश की जनता। इस सदन के माध्यम से मैं एक बात माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से जानना चाहूंगा कि यूबीआई पर सरकार की क्या राय है? चूंकि यह चर्चा बहुत दिनों से है और चीफ मुख्य आर्थिक सलाहकार अरविंद सुब्रह्मण्यम ने भी इसकी चर्चा आर्थिक सर्वेक्षण रिपोर्ट में की है, परंतु अभी तक सरकार का इस पर आधिकारिक बयान नहीं आया है और वित मंत्री जी के बजट भाषण में पिछले वर्ष की तरह इस साल भी फिर कहा है कि किसानों की आमदनी दोगुनी होगी। जबकि देश की जीडीपी में मात्र 0.32 प्रतिशत हिस्सा कृषि का है। आपने अपने घोषणा पत्र में भी कहा था कि हम समर्थन मूल्य लागत से डेढ़ गुना ज्यादा किसानों को देंगे, जो अब तक नहीं हो पाया है। सरकार दाल नौ हजार रूपये प्रति क्विंटल बाहर से आयात कर रही है और यहां के किसानों को मात्र दो हजार रूपये क्विंटल दे रहे हैं। क्या इस नीति से किसानों का भला होगा? आज चना दाल 150 रूपये किलो बिक रही है। कहा गया है कि आपके दाल का बफर स्टॉक है। ऐसा प्रतीत होता है कि सरकार बड़े व्यवसायियों के हित की बात ज्यादा करती है और गरीबों एवं किसानों के नाम का ढिंढोरा पीटती है। आपने मनरेगा में अब तक का सबसे ज्यादा बजट - 48 हज़ार करोड़ रूपये इस साल दिया है। यह प्रमाण है देश में बढ़ती बेरोज़गारी, भुखमरी और आपकी सरकार की विफलताओं का। वित्तमंत्री जी ने अपने बजट भाषण में उल्लेख किया है कि कैपिटल एक्सपेंडीचर इस वर्ष 25 प्रतिशत बढ़ा दिया गया है। लेकिन बड़ी चतुराई से वे रेवन्यु एक्सपेंडिचर का कोई कंसॉलिडेटिड आंकड़ा दिए बिना निकल लिए हैं। क्योंकि वे जानते हैं कि कैपिटल एक्पेंडिचर का सीधा प्रभाव देश की जीडीपी पर होता है, जबकि रेवन्यु एक्सपेंडीचर सरकार के अर्थ पर लाइबलिटी होता है। दूसरी बात यह है कि वित्त मंत्री जी ने कहा है कि सभी पार्टियों को एक निर्धारित समय सीमा में टैक्स रिटर्न फाइल करना होगा। इसमें राजनीतिक दलों को आईटी छूट भी मिलती है, जो कि पहले से ही है। लेकिन एडीआर की रिपोर्ट बताती है कि सत्ताधारी भाजपा ने पिछले पांच वित्तीय वर्षों में अपनी ऑडिट रिपोर्ट चुनाव आयोग को जमा करने में ऑन एवरेज़ 182 दिन की डिफॉल्टर रही है। यह दर्शाता है कि राजनैतिक चंदे के मामले में बीजेपी कितनी गंभीर है। यह भी कहीं नहीं बताया गया है कि सरकार राजनैतिक चंदे की जांच कैसे करेगी और इसके जुर्माने के क्या प्रावधान हैं। इन सभी मामलों को ले कर कोई ठोस इच्छा शक्ति या निर्णय नहीं दिखता है। आप राजनीति को साफ करने की बात करते हैं, सुचिता लाने की बात करते हैं। वित्त मंत्री जी ने बजट घोषणा में कहा है कि राजनीतिक दल अब प्रति व्यक्ति अधिकतम दो हज़ार रूपये तक चंदे के तौर पर ले सकते हैं। इस एक लाइन पर आप वाहवाही लूट रहे हैं, लेकिन यह सिर्फ एक आईवॉश है। इसमें कोई परिवर्तन नहीं आया है। ...(व्यवधान) *  SHRI RABINDRA KUMAR JENA ( BALASORE ): At this crucial juncture when the global economy is showing lukewarm dynamism and signs of slowdown, this budget had a lot of expectations in terms of revitalizing the economy and sentiment in economy. As part of my submission on the budget I would like to dwell upon few selected areas with regard to the budget and the overall macro economy. At the outset, I would like to congratulate the Finance Minister on increasing expenditure, which was needed to propel the economy forward. The Fiscal Deficit is pegged at 3.2% and Revenue Deficit at 1.9% for the year 2017-18. This shows good balance maintained and intent to moving towards a robust and prudent economy in the near future. This, in my view, will go a long way in lending credibility to our economy, not only in the eyes of domestic stakeholders but international rating agencies also. The budget has announced that Corporate Tax rates for the companies below an annual turnover of Rs. 50 Crore will be reduced from 30% to 25%. This is said to cover 97% of the firms in India, which is a much needed boost to the MSME sector which is reeling with undercapitalization and lack of timely credit. Income tax rates have also been slashed by half for the lowest bracket, which is a much needed relief to the common man. The nation was taken by storm on November 8th 2016, when the Hon'ble Prime Minister announced the demonetization move. This step is said to have been taken for the following reasons: to reduce the black money in circulation, bring into the system a part of that cash, help reduce the counterfeit currency circulation and stop the financing to terror outfits. While one needs to wait and see how these said positive impacts pan out in the long run, the short run impacts have been more or less on the negative side. There are three broad areas of immediate concern which needs to be discussed in depth at the moment: One, the inconvenience caused to the common man, especially the poor and the middle class. Long queues and prolonged waiting hours at the bank and ATM's have caused a lot of worry and anxiety to the common man. Every bank was characterised by very long queues and waiting hours for the people to exchange old notes or to deposit their money. The ATM's are also witnessing unprecedented waiting times for the common man to draw cash. The effect of this has been that many people's day to day life has been disrupted and daily workers and poor are made to take leave and stand in queue for cash. The impact of Government withdrawing Rs. 500 and 1,000 currency notes from circulation was visible across urban Delhi with people facing inconvenience in buying milk, vegetables, medicines and other daily essentials and in commuting in auto-rickshaws and taxis. If this is the case in our capital, what could be the trouble the people face in rural areas? States with a high rural population like Odisha are still facing maximum inconvenience. Though our hounouable chief Minister Shri Naveen Patnaik is taking all possible actions to minimize the inconvenience, we must accept the fact that this move has definitely shaken up the normalcy in the society. It is to be noted that many Chief Ministers including the CM's of Bihar, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi and many others have expressed that the common man is facing some problems with this move in his day to day life. Two, planning and preparation gone in before the move was taken. It is a well-known fact it is required to be well prepared before such a huge move is made. Especially, when the move is related to the day to day functioning of the common man. When seeing the magnitude of problems faced by the people, one is forced to question the level of preparedness before this move was taken. Many ATM's are still close (One week after the decision), banks report lack of cash and turn down many people, rural banks still report very low cash to offer the people and so on. In a nut shell many parts of the country had come to a standstill in November on December 2016. How come such a big step was taken without preparing and increasing the capacity of the financial system to cope with such a huge pressure, is a question which we need to address? The third is the impact of this move on the economy. This move has created a situation of liquidity crunch especially in the hands of the middle income groups. In the short run, this has caused the GDP to dip from 7.6% to 7.1%. On the other hand, if this problem persists, a purchasing power crisis may loom large. Also, after the move was announced the markets have been adversely affected. The Indian markets have fallen a bit more than other emerging markets in Asia. The S&P BSE Sensex is down by 3.8%, which is more or less than all other Asian emerging markets. MSME business houses are facing a cash crunch and are not able to make payments for both procurements and finished products. According to a report by All India Manufacturing Organisation, in the first 34 days since demonetisation, micro-small scale industries suffered 35 per cent jobs losses and a 50 per cent dip in revenue, according to a study conducted by India's largest organisation of manufacturers. The study has also projected a drop in employment of 60 per cent and loss in revenue of 55 per cent before March 2017. Therefore I request the Government and RBI to come out with a immediate plan to revive this situation. Next, I would like to focus on an area on which I have been stressing on various platforms including a letter to the Health Minister and Finance Minister. The 2002 National health policy had set a target of increasing the health expenditure of the government to 2% of the GDP by 2010. It is unfortunate that as per World Bank data we still spent only around 1.3-1.45% over the last few years. In 2014, it stood at 1.4%. It is to be noted that the world average stands at almost 6% in 2014. The trends of health expenditure in countries all over the world in comparison with India throw up eye opening revelations. In 1995, the Government spending on health was 1.7% for China, 6.5% for the European Union, 5.4% for Japan, 1.4% for Singapore, 5.9% for United States and 1.05% for India. If we fast forward to 2014, almost all countries have picked up their spending on health, realising the importance of the same, Now, the public spending on health as a percentage of GDP in China stands at 3.09%, 7.8% in the European Union, 8.5% in Japan, 2.05% in Singapore and 8.2% in the United State. However, we are the odd man out here by spending only 1.4% of GDP. Even if one considers total health expenditure as a percentage of GDP and not public expenditure, the situation is similar, if not worst. In 1995, the total expenditure on health as a percentage of GDP stood at 3.5% for China, 8.3% in the European Union 6.6% in Japan, 2.9% in Singapore, 13% in the U. S. and 4 % in India. As stated earlier, every country realised the importance of health and infused more money into this sector. By 2014, the figure in china stood at 5.5%, 10% in the European Union, 10.2% in Japan, almost 5% in Singapore, 17% in the U.S. and for our country the figure increased only very marginally and stood at around 4.6%. The most important and worrying aspect is that the gap in health spending as a percentage of GDP between the world and India has kept increasing from 4.5% in 1995 to 5.2% in 2014. It is to be noted that manufacturing based industrialized countries such as China and Japan have also spent more than us in the health sector. The Union budget of 2017-18 shows an increase of 23% in the allocation for healthcare, when compared to the previous financial year. The 2016-17 budget had also shown an increase of more than 20% in health allocation. But these figures are quite deceptive when you consider the overall picture. The budgetary increases are shown against the previous year's figures and when you realise that an unprecedented cut of 13% on the budget allocation for health in 2015-16 was announced, it shows the hollowness of these apparent increase. Moreover, when you consider the health expenditure of the government - in real terms - at 2005-06 prices, the spending has shown only marginal increases till 2013-14, and has been consistently lower thereafter. All this shows that in the complex prioritisation matrix of the government, health is accorded a lower priority. Therefore I urge the Government to prioritize the health sector and increase  the public Expenditure on Health (% of GDP) to at least 2.5% within the next few years. The manufacturing sector occupies a very important position in India's economy. After the 1991 reforms, the service sector boomed and recorded fast growth. In the meantime, the manufacturing sector has been slowly growing into one of the stronger sectors in our economy. India is looking at becoming a manufacturing hub in the world, overtaking China and others. In this background, the Honourable Prime Minister Launched "Make in India" scheme after assuming office which aimed at boosting the manufacturing sector and thereby providing large scale jobs to the youth of India. After three years, however the sector is not showing any considerable improvement. In fact, data reveals that the sector is suffering and is critical, which needs large scale course correction. The unemployment rate has hit a 5 year high and stands at 5%. According to the fifth annual report, unemployment survey at all-India level, about 77 percent of the households were reported to be having no regular wage/salaried person. The unemployment rate has been estimated to be 5 percent at all-India level under the UPS (Usual Principal Status) approach. The past unemployment rate was 4.9 percent in 2013-14, 4.7 percent in 2012-13, 3.8 percent in 2011-12. Labour Bureau did not bring out any such report for 2014-15. This shows a steady climb in the unemployment rate in the last few years. This also shows that Make in India push has had no impact in bringing down the unemployment levels. In turn it has increased marginally. This indicates that India is moving towards a "jobless growth path", even though it is growing at around 7.6%. On the other hand Industrial growth during the first five months of the current fiscal year has been the lowest in at least 10 years, according to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP). The industrial growth was 0.27% during April-August 2016, the lowest since at least 2007-08. Moreover, industrial growth so far this fiscal year has been even worse than during April-August 2009, immediately after the Lehman crisis. Far from a recovery, the IIP data indicates a deepening gloom in the industrial sector. During April-August this year, the manufacturing sector contracted by 1.18%,  the worst showing in at least five years. The contraction has been the most in capital goods. For consumer non-durables too, growth has been the least in the last five years, with the drought in the last two years bearing part of the blame. Consumer durables are the only bright spot in the industrial sector, although here too growth in the first five months of the current fiscal year has been lower than a year ago. Additionally, the latest RBI data releases points to a slowdown in the manufacturing sector as its order books (where orders are registered) have declined year-on-year. A negative growth of 2.6% is projected for the last quarter of the 2016-17 financial year from the last quarter of the previous fiscal year. In comparison, the 2015-16 financial year had started on a high, with 10.2% growth in the first quarter of that year. It is also to be noted that the exports from the country fell for almost 17 months continuously before showing some positive respite in June this year. All the above and other factual evidence suggests a large crisis, building up in the manufacturing sector in our country. Given that, already agriculture is overburdened with labour and services sector has its limitations to absorb large scale labour. Manufacturing sector is the area which can propel the nation forward and provide mass jobs. Also, it must be noted that the Government harps on skilling youth, but are they job_ready? Statistics over two years show that more than 1 crore people underwent skill training, but job creation number are a mere 3-4 lakh per year . The Government has been harping on doubling farmers income. Yes, a lot of impetus and funds have been allocated for the same. The focus is on increasing productivity and improving supply chain efficiency. However, we must understand that the productivity income elasticity in farming is very low in India. We must realise that disguised unemployment is a huge issue in Indian agriculture. Therefore, in order to increase farmers income, we must generate huge jobs in other sectors, which is not happening. No clear strategy is visible in the budget for the job creation for our youth. This Government talks about protecting cows, bringing in matter of faith whenever there is an election round the corner. Government data shows that the grants allotted for upkeep of Animal Shelter houses for managing unproductive animals have been coming down from Rs. 9,32,95,481 in 2015-16 to Rs. 6,18,92,387. This is almost a decrease of 30% in two years. I feel the Government raises these issues for poll bytes and is not serious. This is one among many of the rhetorics which has not translated into action. Similarly the NPA's of banks is an issue which has not been adequately addressed in the budget. Having said all of the above, this budget has many positives and a few concerns which it hasn't been addressed. Therefore, I hope the Government takes these issues seriously and develop a holistic plan to revive and boost our economy, with a focus on the common man. * SHRIMATI BUTTA RENUKA ( KURNOOL ): As I have perused the budget proposals, I am both happy on certain aspects and unhappy on certain aspects. Budget offers lot of optimism and is ray of hope for the middle class and unemployed. Its focus on infrastructure is laudable. Proper and conducive infrastructure only can attract investments which will further provide employment and stimulate demand which will result in increase in growth rate. It has also initiated steps to reform tax structure and as a first step, cut the rates of income tax for the middle class segment. This will benefit substantial sections of our society, especially salaried employees. Reduction in tax rates will stimulate savings and demand. I wish the finance Minister should also have looked at reducing the excise duty and service tax. Probably, the GST which is in the offing may have held him back. The budget also has raised expectations of the farmers by promising that their incomes will double in five years period. However, there is no clarity how it can be achieved without increasing MSP, which is the only source of income. For any income to double in a period of five years, there should be an annual growth rate of 20% in MSP. In the last two years, the country witnessed unprecedented drought and with no reliable insurance system in place and very low MSP for various crops, the farmers suffered heavily. The Government should have come up with concrete measures to improve the status of agricultural labour and farmers. The Government fixed a target of Rs. 2.4 lakh crores for Mudra bank funding to unorganized sector. This is a good initiative and requires close monitoring in terms of implementation. Next to agriculture, manufacturing sector employs largest workforce and is an important driver of the economy. Unfortunately, there has been a sharp fall in manufacturing sector, the sharpest in a decade. The index of Industrial Production published every month by Central Statistical Organization (CSO) for the all-important manufacturing sector was 183.5 for the month of May 2014 and the same has come down to 181.2 for the month of November 2016. Textiles, leather, metals, automobiles, gems and jewellery, transport, and the handloom sectors on which lot of rural labour depend have not got any incentives in this budget. The job creation in these sectors is very low. There is no mention of Special Category Status to AP nor is there any mention about Railway Zone at Visakhapatnam. Similarly, no major allocations seem to have been made for either Capital City for AP or for Vizag-Chennai industrial corridor. We request the Government to kindly honour its promise by granting Special Category Status for AP as early as possible. If promises made on the floor of the House are not kept, the confidence of the people on democratic institutions will erode. I request this government to keep the promises made in the Parliament and offer special status to Andhra Pradesh. I am also totally disappointed that there is nothing mentioned for the backward region of Rayalaseema in this Budget. I have been persistently requesting for setting up of AIIMS in Kurnool which was earlier capital of Andhra and request the Finance Minister to concede this demand. माननीय सभापति :अब आप बैठिए। किरिट पी. सोलंकी जी, अब आप बोलिए। डॉ. किरिट पी. सोलंकी ( अहमदाबाद ) : महोदय, मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूँ कि आज आपने मुझे एक ऐसे बजट पर बोलने की अनुमति दी है, जो बजट पंडित दीन दयाल उपाध्याय जी, जिन्होंने समग्र देश को अंत्योदय का मंत्र दिया था और उनका जब जन्म शताब्दी वर्ष चल रहा है, उसी समय में हमारे प्रधान मंत्री श्री नरेन्द्र भाई मोदी जी ने और हमारे विद्वान वित्त मंत्री श्री अरूण जेटली जी ने यह जो बजट पेश किया है, मैं समझता हूँ कि यह बहुत ही ऐतिहासिक बजट है। यह जो बजट पेश किया गया है, यह गाँव, गरीब, किसान, दलित, महिला और युवाओं को समर्पित बजट है और इसलिए मैं आपका विशेष आभारी हूँ। महोदय, हमारे यशस्वी प्रधान मंत्री जी ने यह जो बजट पेश किया है, इसमें गरीबों के लिए फोकस किया गया है, किसानों के लिए फोकस किया गया है, जो कुछ सदियों में निर्णय लिये जाते हैं, इसमें विमुद्रीकरण का जो फैसला लिया गया है, कुछ सदियों में ऐसा एक निर्णय लिया जाता है। हम सब सौभाग्यशाली हैं कि हम सब उस निर्णय के साक्षी बने हैं। इसकी वजह से काले धन को समाप्त किया जायेगा, भ्रष्टाचार पर नकेल लगेगी, आतंकवाद और नक्सलवाद पर नकेल लगेगी। इसके लिए मैं अपनी सरकार को बहुत-बहुत बधाई देता हूँ और इस बजट के समर्थन में बोलने के लिए मैं खड़ा हुआ हूँ। महोदय, जहाँ तक किसान और गाँव का सवाल है, इसमें इस सरकार के द्वारा आज तक का सबसे बड़ा आवंटन इस बजट के माध्यम से किया गया है। 1 लाख 87 हजार करोड़ रूपये के इस बजट में जो आवंटन किया गया है, उसके लिए मैं सरकार का बहुत-बहुत आभार प्रकट करता हूँ। इस आवंटन में जो वृद्धि हुई है, वह करीब 25 फीसदी की है। इसकी वजह से मिशन अंत्योदय के तहत एक करोड़ हाउसहोल्ड को और 50 हजार ग्राम पंचायतों के लोगों को गरीबी की रेखा से वर्ष 2019 तक मुक्ति दिलायी जायेगी। मनरेगा में करीबन 48 हजार करोड़, आज तक का सबसे ज्यादा आवंटन हुआ है। प्रधान मंत्री फसल बीमा योजना में 30 प्रतिशत था, उसे बढ़ाकर 40 प्रतिशत कृषि क्षेत्र को लगाया गया है। आने वाले समय में इसमें 50 फीसदी प्रावधान किया जायेगा। जहाँ तक अनुसूचित जाति और जनजाति का सवाल है, मोदी जी की सरकार ने अनुसूचित जनजाति के लिए आज तक का सबसे बड़ा आवंटन किया है। इस बजट में एस.सी. के लिए 52,393 करोड़ रूपये का आवंटन किया गया है, जिसमें पिछले बजट की तुलना करीबन 35 फीसदी बढ़ोत्तरी की गई है। जहाँ तक मुद्रा योजना का सवाल है, करीबन 2.5 करोड़ लोगों को इसका फायदा हुआ है और यह जो फायदा हुआ है, इसमें अनुसूचित जाति और दलितों के करीबन 40 फीसदी लोगों को फायदा दिया गया है। नये-नये उद्यमियों को खासकर युवा लोगों को इसमें रोजगार का एक प्रावधान मिलेगा। मुद्रा योजना का आवंटन डबल किया गया है। स्टैंड-अप योजना के तहत गरीबों, दलितों, महिलाओं और शेडय़ूल ट्राइब्स के लोगों को आवंटन किया जायेगा। जहाँ तक सीनियर सिटिजन्स का सवाल है, उनको 8 प्रतिशत वार्षिक के रेट से आने वाले दस साल तक उनको एक एश्योर्ड पेंशन मिलेगी। जहाँ तक प्रधान मंत्री उज्जवला योजना का सवाल है, 5 करोड़ महिलाएँ, जो बी.पी.एल. कैटेगरी में आती हैं, उनमें से करीबन 1.5 करोड़ महिलाओं को इसका फायदा पहुँचाया गया है। प्रधान मंत्री जी की एक बात पर समग्र देश ने अपनी सब्सिड़ी को छोड़ दिया है, इसमें भी ज्यादातर दलित लोग व महिलाएँ हैं। मैं पेशे से डॉक्टर हूँ, इस बजट में स्वास्थ्य क्षेत्र में करीबन 27,131 करोड़ रूपये का आवंटन किया गया है, मैं समझता हूँ कि उसमें करीबन 20 फीसदी की वृद्धि हुई है। इस देश में कालाजार और फाइलेरिया, जो बिहार और देश के पूर्वी क्षेत्र में ज्यादातर होता है, उसका वर्ष 2017 तक निर्मूलन किया जायेगा। खसरे का वर्ष 2020 तक निर्मूलन किया जायेगा। जहाँ तक पोस्ट ग्रेजुएट डॉक्टर्स का सवाल है, एम.एस. और एम.डी. डॉक्टर्स का सवाल है, हमारे देश में और खासकर गाँवों में उनकी कमी रहती है। मैं इस सरकार को बधाई देता हूँ कि इस बजट में करीबन पाँच हजार पी.जी. डॉक्टर्स की सीट्स की बढ़ोत्तरी की गई है। जहाँ तक नेशनल बोर्ड डी.एन.बी. का सवाल है, that is also equivalent to MS/MD.जहां-जहां बड़े अस्पताल हैं, चाहे वे रूरल क्षेत्रों में हों, उन्हें मान्यता दी जाएगी, ताकि उनमें पोस्ट ग्रैजुएट डॉक्टरों की संख्या बढ़ सके। माननीय सभापति : आप अपना भाषण समाप्त करिए, समय हो गया। डॉ. किरिट पी. सोलंकी : महोदय, मैं कन्क्लूड करता हूं। महोदय, जहां तक अहमदाबाद और गुजरात का सवाल है, गुजरात में एक नए एम्स की घोषणा की गयी है, इसके लिए मैं सरकार के प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। मेरा संसदीय क्षेत्र अहमदाबाद है, जहां साबरमती रिवर के तट पर महात्मा गांधी आश्रम है। उसके 100 साल पूरे होते हैं। यहां से महात्मा जी ने आज़ादी की लड़ाई चालू की थी। भारत सरकार और गुजरात सरकार के माध्यम से उसके सौन्दर्यीकरण और विकास के लिए इस बजट में प्रावधान किया गया है। मैं डिजीटल इंडिया की बात करना चाहता हूं, जिसे हमारे प्रधान मंत्री जी ने चालू किया है। हमारे कांग्रेस के मित्र अपनी पीठ थपथपा रहे हैं कि इस देश को कम्प्यूटर युग में ले जाने वाले राजीव गांधी थे। मगर, जहां तक वाई-फाई से ग्राम पंचायत को जोड़ने का सवाल है, उन लोगों ने डबल डिजिट में ग्राम 

  

  

पंचायतों को जोड़ा था, जबकि हमारे प्रधान मंत्री जी ने 76,089 ग्राम पंचायतों को डिजीटल माध्यम से जोड़ा है और 1,72,000 किलोमीटर को ऑप्टिकल फाइबर से जोड़ा है। हमारे बड़े स्टेट में अभी चुनाव होने जा रहे हैं। हमारे कांग्रेस के मित्र, जो डिजीटल भारत की बात करते थे, वे वहां किसी की साईकिल के लिए सीट मांग रहे हैं। महोदय, आपने मुझे बोलने की अनुमति दी, इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। *श्री रामसिंह राठवा (छोटा उदयपुर)ःलोकसभा में प्रस्तुत इस बार का वार्षिक आम बजट लोगों की उम्मीदों पर खरा उतरा है। संभवतः यह इक्कीसवीं शताब्दी का पहला बजट है जिसे हम लोक-कल्याणकारी बजट कह सकते हैं। यह बजट वित्तीय अनुशासन स्थापित करने की दिशाओं को भी उद्घाटित करता है। यूं तो बजट हर वर्ष आता है। अनेक विचाराधाराओं वाले वित्तमंत्रियों ने विगत में कई बजट प्रस्तुत किए। पर हर बजट लोगों की मुसीबतें बढ़ाकर ही जाता है। लेकिन इस बार बजट ने नयी परम्परा के साथ राहत की सांसें दी है। इस बजट में, कृषि, डेयरी, शिक्षा, कौशल विकास, रेलवे और अन्य बुनियादी ढांचागत क्षेत्रों के लिए आवंटन बढ़ाने का प्रस्ताव भी किया गया है। कई मामलों में यह बजट वाकई असाधारण है। पहली बार आम बजट 1 फरवरी को पेश किया गया है। अब तक यह फरवरी की आखिरी तारीख को पेश होता था। यही नहीं, 92 वर्षों में पहली बार रेल बजट अलग से पेश नहीं किया गया है। इस बार इसे आम बजट का पार्ट बनाया गया है। वर्तमान सरकार की नीतियों को प्रभावी ढंग से लागू करने के साथ-साथ देश को एक नई रफ्तार देने की दृष्टि से यह बजट प्रभावी, संतुलित और विकास मूलक है। इसके लिए मैं हमारे प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी एवं वित्त मंत्री श्री अरण जेटली के प्रति धन्यवाद ज्ञापित करना चाहूंगा। निश्चित ही, यह बजट देश को एक नई करवट देगा, विकास की संभावनाओं को आकार देगा एवं विकसित देश के रूप में भारत को अग्रसर करने का माध्यम बनेगा। यह बजट सही आर्थिक दिशा के एजेंडे के रूप में प्रस्तुत हुआ है इसे हम कृषि, किसान, गांव एवं गरीब का बजट भी कह सकते हैं। इसमें सरकार का लक्ष्य 5 साल में किसानों की आमदनी दोगुनी करना है। इसके लिए उसने फसल बीमा के मद में नौ हजार करोड़ रपये आवंटित किए हैं। 5 हजार करोड़ रपये से सूक्ष्म सिंचाई निधि बनेगी। इन नए उपायों से कृषि विकास के साथ-साथ किसान का जीवन भी उन्नत बनेगा। यह बजट नोटबंदी के ठीक बाद आया है, इसलिए नोटबंदी से हुई परेशानी को ध्यान में रखने के साथ-साथ जिन उद्देश्यों के लिए नोटबंदी की गई थी उन उद्देश्यों की प्राप्ति का भी बजट में पूरा-पूरा ध्यान रखा गया है। पांच राज्यों में चुनाव के पूर्व इस बजट के प्रस्तुत होने के बावजूद इसमें चुनावों को प्रभावित करने या लुभाने जैसा कोई राजनीतिक नजरिया दिखाई नहीं दिया, यह भी इस बजट की एक विशेषता ही कही जायेगी। अक्सर बजट में राजनीति, वोटनीति तथा अपनी सरकार की छवि-वृद्धि करने के प्रयास ही अधिक दिखाई देते हैं। लेकिन इस बजट को कसने की बुनियादी कसौटी भारत का विकास ही है। अपना घर, स्टार्टअप, मेक इन इंडिया, महिला एवं वृद्धों को राहत की दृष्टि से भी यह बजट उल्लेखनीय है और इसे भारत के विकास का बजट कह सकते हैं। जब-जब बजट प्रस्तुत होता है, आम-आदमी की दिक्कतें कम नहीं होती। लोक-कल्याणकारी बजट क्या होता है, कैसा होता है, लोग जानते ही नहीं थे। बल्कि इस शब्द से एजर्ली हो गई है। वर्षों से एक छोटी-सी मांग, आयकर छूट की सीमा बढ़ाने की, को लगातार नजरअंदाज किया जाता रहा है लेकिन इस बजट में इस ओर ध्यान दिया गया है। निम्न मध्यमवर्ग को इनकम टैक्स में थोड़ी राहत दी गई है। 2.5 लाख से 5 लाख रपये तक की आय पर 10 के बजाय 5 प्रतिशत टैक्स देना होगा। इससे न सिर्फ वेतनभोगी लोगों, बल्कि छोटे कारोबारियों को कुछ राहत मिलेगी। उम्मीद की जा रही है कि इससे वे कारोबारी स्वतः अपने आय-व्यय का लेखा-जोखा पेश करने को प्रोत्साहित होंगे, जो आमदनी छिपाने की कोशिश करते रहे हैं। इस बजट को तैयार करते हुए अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय चुनौतियों के दबाव भी सामने रहे हैं, जैसे कच्चे तेल की बढ़ती कीमतें, अमेरिका की ब्याज दरों में वृद्धि और तमाम देशों द्वारा अपनाई जा रही ग्लोबलाइजेशन विरोधी नीतियां। मेरी दृष्टि में आर्थिक शुचिता एवं वित्तीय अनुशासन को प्रभावी ढंग से लागू करने का संकल्प और सन्देश इस बजट ने दिया है। पहली बार चुनावी चंदे के मसले पर बजट में ऐसी व्यवस्था करने की घोषणा की गई है जिससे भ्रष्टाचार की जड़ खोखली होती जायेगी। राजनीतिक दलों को अधिकतम द ाॊ हजार रपये की धनराशि की नगद चंदे के रूप में दी जा सकेगी। पहले नोटबंदी और अब इस नयी व्यवस्था से निश्चित रूप से राजनीतिक चंदे में पारदर्शिता आयेगी एवं भ्रष्टाचार पर नकेल कसी जायेगी। इस कालेधन का प्रवाह रोकने की दिशा में कठोर कदम कहा जा सकता है। हमारे प्रधानमंत्री जी ने नोटबंदी को गरीबों के हित में उठाए गए कदम के रूप में प्रस्तुत किया था। कहा गया था कि धनी लोग काले धन से मौज-मस्ती करते हैं, जबकि कर चोरी का बुरा नतीजा गरीबों को भुगतना पड़ता है। अरस्तु ने सचेत किया था कि करदाता को जब यह ज्ञान होता है कि सरकार को दिये गये कर को चुनिंदे व्यक्ति और नौकरशाह अपनी समृद्धि के लिए दुरपयोग कर रहे हैं, तो करदाता इसे कतई बर्दाश्त नहीं करेगा। बावजूद इसके, सात दशक के आजाद भारत में अधिकांश समय आम व्यक्ति की उपेक्षा प्रस्तुत होने वाले बजटों में देखने को मिली थी और काले धन-भ्रष्टाचार के खिलाफ नारेबाजी तो बहुत होती रही, लेकिन कोई ठोस कार्रवाई नहीं की गई। इसीलिये, इस वर्ष के बजट में सबसे अधिक चिंता कालेधन पर रोक लगाने को लेकर देखी गई है। इसके लिए डिजिटल भुगतान को बढ़ावा देने, तीन लाख रपए से अधिक के लेन-देन को रोकने और राजनीतिक दलों को मिलने वाले नगद चंदे की सीमा बीस हजार से घटा कर महज दो हजार रपए करने का प्रस्ताव किया गया है। नोटबंदी के बाद से ही सरकार डिजिटल भुगतान को बढ़ावा देती आ रही है इसके लिए कुछ पुरस्कार और विक्रेताओं के लिए प्रोत्साहन योजनाएं भी शुरू की गई है। चूंकि सरकार वस्तु एवं सेवा कर अधिनियम लागू करने की दिशा में गतिशील है, इसलिए भी डिजिटल भुगतान को बढ़ावा देकर कालेधन पर अंकुश लगाने और कर भुगतान में पारदर्शिता लाना चाहती है। फिर प्रत्यक्ष विदेशी निवेश को बढ़ावा देने के इरादे भी जुड़े हुए हैं। अगले वित्त वर्ष के लिए मनरेगा या आंगनबाड़ी जैसी सामाजिक क्षेत्र की योजनाओं की मद बढ़ाई गई हैं। बुनियादी ढांचा परियोजनाओं पर निवेश में बड़ी वृद्धि का इरादा दिखाया गया है। लघु एवं मध्यम कंपनियों तथा मध्य वर्ग को कर रियायत मिली है। कृषि ऋण, सिंचाई व्यय, फसल बीमा एवं ग्रामीण सड़क निर्माण के ऊंचे लक्ष्य तय किए गए हैं। इसके बावजूद वित्त मंत्रीजी राजकोषीय अनुशासन में रहे। उन्होंने अगले वित्त वर्ष में राजकोषीय घाटा 3.2 फीसदी पर सीमित रखने का अनुमान व्यक्त किया। इससे भारत की वित्तीय व्यवस्था में निवेशकें का भरोसा कायम रहेगा और भारत की अर्थव्यवस्था सुदृढ़ बनेगी। सरकार को टैक्स के दायरे में ज्यादा से ज्यादा लोगों को लाने का प्रयास करना होगा। चाणक्य नीति में कहा गया है कि जिस प्रकार फूल से भंवरा मधुकरी कर बिना फूल को नुकसान पहुंचाएं काम चलाता है, ठीक उसी प्रकार सरकार को जनता से कर लेना चाहिए और जो कर के दायरे में आते हैं उन सबसे कर लेने की प्रभावी व्यवस्था होनी ही चाहिए। एक आदर्श शासन व्यवस्था वह है जिसमें हर करदाता कर देना अपनी जिम्मेदारी समझे। ऐसा तभी संभव है जब ईमानदार बजट हो और ईमानदार ही करदाता हो। जब अनैतिकता और मूल्यहीनता से आर्थिक ढांचा चरमरा उठा है, तब देश को एक सशक्त वित्तीय अनुशासन की आवश्यकता है और सरकार एवं उसके द्वारा पारित यह बजट इसके लिए प्रतिबद्ध है, यह देश को उन्नत दिशा में अग्रसर करने का प्रभावी कदम है। एक बार फिर मैं इस बजट के लिए प्रधानमंत्री जी और वित्त मंत्रीजी को साधुवाद देना चाहूंगा। * SHRI RAMESHWAR TELI ( DIBRUGARH ): I wholeheartedly support the Union Budget, 2017-18, presented by our Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitly ji. The Budget which aims at welfare of the farmers, the workers, the poor, the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes, women and other vulnerable section of our society is undoubtedly a welcome step by the government. The budget proposals will certainly go a long way in eradicating poverty and taking the country on the path of development. Moreover, the government's focused approach towards energizing our youth will help them reap the benefits of growth and employment. As has been mentioned by the Hon'ble Finance Minister in his Budget speech, demonetisation of high denomination bank notes is a bold and decisive measure. This well thought measure will help our country a great deal in eliminating corruption, black money, counterfeit currency and terror funding. The merger of the Railway Budget with the General budget is a historic step. I congratulate the Government for taking this historic step as it would bring the Railways to the center stage of Government's fiscal policy and would facilitate multi model transport planning between railways, highways, and inland waterways. Among the various measures announced in the Budget that would transform India into a developed nation are the welfare measures for the farmers like issuance of Soil Health Cards, a dedicated micro Irrigation Fund to be set up at NABARD to achieve the goal, 'per drop more crop', expansion of coverage of national Agricultural Market (e-NAM), provision of a Dairy Processing and Infrastructure Development Fund, and the measures for the upliftment of the rural poor like Mission Antyodaya to bring one crore households out of poverty and to make 50,000 gram panchayats poverty free by 2019 etc. 

           The increase in the allocation for the schemes like The Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana will give the people living in the rural areas much needed succor. The increased allocation of Rs. 4,814 crores under the Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana to achieve 100% village electrification by 1st May 2018 is another laudable step on the part of the Government which deserve appreciation. I would like to thank the Hon'ble Finance Minister for making provision to provide safe drinking water to over 28,000 arsenic and fluoride affected habitations in the next four years. To give impetus to the Government's policy of 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas' the Government has proposed setting up of Mahila Shakti Kendra at village level with an allocation of Rs. 500 crores in 14 lakh ICDS Anganwadi Centres. This is a very good step since this measure will greatly benefit the rural women. For the first time, in the Independent  India, the Government has presented a combined Budget - The General Budget along with the Railway Budget. The Government's emphasis on major issues concerning the Indian Railways like passenger safety, capital and development network, cleanliness and finance and accounting reforms will definitely improve the standard of Indian Railways. As a matter of fact, our Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitly ji has presented a very pragmatic and people friendly Budget that will benefit every section of society. I express my heartiest thanks to the Hon'ble Finance Minister for his visionary ideas which have been reflected in the Budget. * SHRI RAMEN DEKA ( MANGALDAI ): I welcome the general budget for 2016-17 presented by Shri Arun Jaitely the Hon'ble Finance Minister. Under the dynamic leadership of our Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji, country's progress in every front remarkable. I do welcome demonetisation of high value notes. This was in continuation of economic reforms as well as to curb black money, fake currency, to halt funding to terrorists. This will eliminate corruption. The budget proposal are divided under ten distinct sectors as follows: Farmer, Rural Population, Youth, Poor and the Underprivileged, Infrastructure , Financial Sector, Digital Economy, Public Service, Prudent Fiscal Management, Tax Administration. This is a scientific approach for allocation of funds. The budget for 2017-18 emphasised on farmers needs as well as rural population. We all are aware that a vast population of our country reside in rural India. There are many more schemes for the youths of this country and above all schemes to uplift the living standards of poor and underprivileged are remarkable. I thank Hon'ble finance minister for this act. We have seen in last several years that the fiscal management was not up to the mark. But, the present budget emphasised to bring Prudent Fiscal Management in financial sectors. The Government is committed to give a new thrust to infrastructure and digital economy. Honouring the honest is a revolutionary step in this budget. I am glad to note that central Government assured special financial assistance for all round development of north eastern states. The present budget emphasised on communication system of north eastern states by constructing highways, railways, and waterways. These will give a boost to economy of north eastern states. The following fund allocation will show how our Government is serious for the development of north eastern states: Once again, I thank Hon'ble Finance Minister for his vision to develop N.E. states. The budget 2017-18 will usher a new path which will lead country's economy to a new height. The country look forward our Hon'ble Prime minister Shri Narendra Modiji who is a symbol of development. Under his leadership, the Government took bold step to eliminate corruption which spread like cancer in the society. The present budget is moving towards punishing the corrupt and honouring the honest. *डॉ. सुनील बलीराम गायकवाड़ (लातूर)ः  सन 2017 का बजट पुरानी परंपरा को छोड़कर 1 फरवरी को बजट पेश किया गया ।  इस बजट में और एक नई बात हो गई कि रेल का बजट भी इसी बजट में एक साथ पेश किया गया । सबसे अच्छी  बात यह है कि इस बजट में किसानों, दलितों, पिछड़े जमाती के लोगों के हित में निर्णय लिया गया है ।  दलितों को बजट में वृद्धि की है ।  "सबका साथ सबका विकास" यह  आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी मोदी जी कहते हैं वह करके दिखाया है ।  जैसे की करोड़ों परिवारों को "उज्जवला गैस" के माध्यम से सब को गैस कनेक्शन देने का काम किया है ।  प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना के माध्यम से सबको मकान देने का काम भी, के लिए भी इस बजट में प्रावधान किया है। पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी का कहना था कि समाज के आखिरी लोगों के सिर पर आसरा होना चाहिए।  इसी आदर्श को लेकर माननीय लोकप्रिय प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी ने गरीबों को प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना में घर देने का काम शुरू किया है।  इतना ही नहीं कि, जिन लाभधारकों को जगह नहीं उन्हें घर बांधने के लिए 50,000 रूपये की राशि अनुदान देने की भी तसूद की है ।  इस से हमारे देश में सबको मकान होगा ।  मेरे लोकसभा क्षेत्र लातूर में नागपुर-रत्नागिरी  नैशनल हाइवे का निर्माण हो रहा है ।  हमारे देश में सब जगह अच्छी सड़के निर्माण करने का काम जोर से चल रहा है ।  और अच्छी क्वालिटी में हो रहा है । इस बजट में माननीय मंत्री जी ने हमारे महाराष्ट्र में जो पिछली बजट में नई रेल लाईन की शुरूआत की थी उसे पूरी करने के लिए भी मैं मांग करता हूं ।  मैं, मेरे लातूर लोक सभा क्षेत्र से तिरूपति और लातूर से अजमेर के लिए नई ट्रेन शुरू करने की भी मांग करता हूं । सामाजिक न्याय मंत्रालय के माध्यम से सामाजिक समतोल रखने के लिए दलितों, पिछड़े लोगों के साथ सभी दिव्यांगों के लिए भी पर्याप्त राशि इस बजट में दी है । हमारे लोकप्रिया प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी की दूर दृष्टि से जो 8 नवंबर को नोटबंदी का निर्णय लिया, इस एंतिहासिक निर्णय से सारे जग में पता चला कि हमारे प्रधानमंत्री ने जो नोटबंदी का निर्णय लिया वो सराहनीय है ।  इससे  "कैशलेस" और ऑनलाइन ट्रांजेक्शन के लिए अच्छा कदम है ।  इस निर्णय के बाद हमारे महाराष्ट्र में इलेक्शन हुआ और हमारी पार्टी महाराष्ट्र में नंबर एक पर आयी ।  इसका मतलब होता है कि, मोदीजी ने जो निर्णय लिया इस निर्णय के साथ सभी जनता है और  इससे एक और अच्छी बात हो गई लोगों को पैसे बचत करने की भी आदत लग गई है ।  इस बजट में जो "ऑनलाइन" ट्रांजेक्शन करने वालों के लिए कुछ सुविधाएं दी है । टैक्स में छूट दी है ।  जैसा कि 3 लाख रूपए तक टैक्स की छूट दी है ।  इससे 3 से 5 लाख रूपए तक को भी कुछ कनशेसन दिया है ।  इससे टैक्स बेरर की संख्या बढ़ेगी ऐसा लगता है । यह बजट आम जनता  के हित में और किसानों और गरीबों के हित में है ।  मैं माननीय प्रधानमंत्री आदरणीय नरेंद्र मोदी जी को धन्यवाद देता हू कि बहुत ही अच्छा बजट आपकी सरकार ने पेश किया है । 17.46 hours 

 BUSINESS ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

        39th Report          

THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMERS WELFARE AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI S.S. AHLUWALIA): Sir, I rise to present the Thirty-ninth Report of the Business Advisory Committee. SHRI NEIPHIU RIO ( NAGALAND ): Thank you, hon. Chairperson, for giving me time to participate in the Budget discussion. After the merger of the Railway Budget with the General Budget, it has become a historic Budget. I congratulate the hon. Prime Minister for his vision, dynamic leadership, and for bringing numerous, bold policy changes in socio-economic and governance issues. It is a process towards transforming India into a major world economic power in the world. I applaud the Finance Minister, his supporting officers and advisors for their comprehensive approach and giving importance to all sectors, particularly the weaker sections of society, to the most remote areas and for the promotion of infrastructure. Demonetization has been a landmark event for the economy of the country. Notwithstanding downward GDP forecast for 2016, I am hopeful that the negative impact of demonetization on the economy, its turnover, etc., will be over and remonetization will pick up in 2017-18, as mentioned by the hon. Finance Minister. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are optimistic while projecting a higher growth in the following years. The long-term gains should outweigh the short-term constraints. The avowed objectives of curbing black money, terrorist funding, corruption, and counterfeit currency would have been achieved by digitization of financial transactions with more transparency. I am happy to learn about more than 48 per cent growth in allocations of Central Ministries and the Department of North Eastern Region in the Budget of 2017-18 over the BE of last year. Today, we are all proud that India is the sixth largest manufacturing country in the world, up from ninth position, as observed by the hon. Finance Minister and by the World Bank and in other international fora. In the context of all these positive developments, I hope it will make our development inclusive. The Look East and Act East policy should be made a reality to bridge economic development with the ASEAN countries benefiting the North Eastern Region and the country as a whole. The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organization (ENPO) and the Tribal Hoho of three districts in Nagaland, and the Myanmar civil society have protested against fencing of the international border between Nagaland and Myanmar. Nagaland has 215 kilometres of border with Myanmar, from Pillar Nos. 139 to 146. In this regard, I have already written to the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the Minister of External Affairs. I had personal discussion with the Prime Minister and the Home Minister. I am grateful that they have given an assurance that they will listen to the voice of the people and the work of the staff. We should win over the people and not antagonise the people who are living there. The Naga people are still struggling to resolve the larger Naga political issue. We are praying and hoping that the present negotiation which is going on for the last twenty years will be consummated soon and peace restored. For the last two weeks, Nagaland is facing problem because the voice and the wishes of the Tribal Hohos are not respected and going against the spirit of Article 371A of the Constitution of India, which gives them special protections. I think, in this time, the Naga Nationalist Group is having a negotiation with the Government of India. I believe, this is on the basis of Article 371A. It says: जनधन खातों का हमारे विपक्ष के लोग मजाक उड़ाया करते थे, आज उन खातों का और आधार का लाभ मिल रहा है। हमारी सरकार दिल्ली से एक रुपया भेजती है तो एक रुपया मिलता है, चाहे वह मनरेगा का हो या गैस सिलेण्डर की सब्सिडी हो या कोई और चीज हो। शुचिता की दृष्टि से इस सरकार ने जो आयाम स्थापित किया, वह बहुत बड़ी बात है। प्रारम्भ में महात्मा गांधी के आदर्शों पर चलने की बात कांग्रेस के लोग करते हैं। गांधी जी ने एक बात कही थी कि हमारे देश में कुटीर उद्योग को बढ़ावा देना चाहिए। लघु उद्योग को बढ़ावा न देकर बड़ी-बड़ी इंडस्ट्रीज खड़ी की गईं। बड़ी इंडस्ट्री की भी आवश्यकता थी, लेकिन उसका संतुलन होना चाहिए था। वह संतुलन नहीं रखा गया। परिणाम यह हुआ कि धीरे-धीरे बेरोजगारी बढ़ती चली गई। माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने युवाओं के लिए कौशल विकास का अभियान प्रारम्भ किया है। मैं सीकर की बात करना चाहूंगा। भारत सरकार ने हमारे यहां कई सेंटर्स स्थापित किए हैं। मेरे सीकर में ही एक ड्राइविंग सेंटर स्थापित किया है। हमारे देश मे पेरू जैसे देश से हाइड्रा चलाने के लिए और बड़ी-बड़ी मशीनें चलाने के लिए 17 हजार लोग बुलाने पड़ते हैं। पिछली बार माननीय मंत्री जी ने अपने स्टेटमेंट में यह बात कही थी, यानी ड्राइविंग के लिए भी विदेशों से आदमी बुलाने पड़ते हैं, जबकि हमारे देश में युवा बेरोजगार है, इसलिए प्रधानमंत्री जी ने निश्चय किया है, मेरे सीकर में एक केन्द्र प्रारम्भ किया है। उसमें ड्राइविंग सिखाई जाती है, जिसमें जेसीबी है, हाइड्रा व अन्य चीजें हैं, वहीं लाइसेंस बनाकर दे दिया जाता है। इस प्रकार से करोड़ों नौजवानों को रोजगार देने का एक बहुत अच्छा आयाम प्रारम्भ किया गया है। इस तरह से नौजवान आगे बढ़ेंगे। हमारे कम्युनिस्ट साथी एक नारा लगाया करते थे, ""मांग रहा है हिंदुस्तान, रोटी कपड़ा और मकान, " लेकिन पता नहीं आपने कितने मकान दिए हैं। हमारे प्रधानमंत्री जी ने एक करोड़ मकान देने की बात कही है। सीकर में मैं दो सौ मकानों की आधारशिला रखकर आया हूं, प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना, मुख्यमंत्री आवास योजना के तहत, तो आवास की स्थिति के हिसाब से अच्छा काम हो रहा है।माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी की इच्छा है, अपने भाषण में उन्होंने लाल किले से यह बात कही थी कि भारत इतना बड़ा देश होकर, इतनी युवा शक्ति होकर भी आज सत्तर साल के अंदर हम देश को ऐसे विश्वविद्यालय नहीं दे पाए जो अंतर्राष्ट्रीय स्तर के हों। इसलिए उन्होंने एक संकल्प लिया है कि आने वाले समय में हमारी बीस यूनिवर्सिटीज ऐसी होनी चाहिए जो अंतर्राष्ट्रीय स्तर की हों और उस तरफ वे कदम बढ़ा रहे हैं। मैं विश्वविद्यालयों की बात नहीं कहना चाहूंगा। हमारे बीच में साथी बैठे हैं। माननीय कपिल सिब्बल जी के समय में स्कूल शिक्षा का दिवाला निकला। स्कूल की दसवीं कक्षा तक की परीक्षायें खत्म कर दी गईं, जब एग्जाम नहीं होगा, बच्चों को यही पता नहीं लगेगा कि मेरी क्वालिफिकेशन क्या है, मेरी योग्यता क्या है। इसलिए हमारी सरकार ने दसवीं में बोर्ड वापस लागू किया है, ताकि आठवीं में बच्चों को पता लगे कि मेरी योग्यता क्या है, दसवीं में पता लगे कि योग्यता क्या है, तब बच्चा बारहवीं और कॉलेज में जाकर कुछ करके दिखा सकता है। चाहे स्कूल एजुकेशन हो, चाहे कॉलेज एजुकेशन हो, चाहे विश्वविद्यालय की शिक्षा हो, उसमें सुधार करने का पूरा प्रयास किया गया है। श्वेत क्रांति की बात कही गई। श्वेत क्रांति तो की, लेकिन क्या किया। हमारे देश की देसी नस्ल की गाय के ऊपर कभी ध्यान नहीं दिया गया। परिणाम यह हुआ कि विदेशी नस्ल लेकर आ गए। मैं पिछले चालीस सालों से गौ सेवा के क्षेत्र में काम करता हूं और गायों पर बहुत काम किया है। पांच, छः, सात साल से अधिक वे गायें काम नहीं देती हैं। कारण यह है कि उनके अनुकूल हमारे यहां का मौसम नहीं है। हमारी गायें पचास डिग्री टेंपरेचर में खड़ी रहती हैं, लेकिन उन्हें बीमारियां नहीं होती हैं। विदेशों से इस प्रकार की नस्लें लाकर छोड़ दीं, जो अनेक बीमारियां पैदा करती हैं। हमारी सरकार ने इस बार नस्ल सुधार के ऊपर काम करने की एक श्वेत क्रांति के लिए देसी नस्ल को बढ़ावा देने के लिए आठ सौ करोड़ का प्रोजेक्ट पिछली बार भी किया था, इस बार उसे बढ़ाया है। इससे दूध भी मिलेगा और हमारी भारतीय संस्कृति भी बचेगी। कृषि के क्षेत्र में माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने नीम कोटिंग खाद की विशेष चर्चा की थी। नरेगा के तहत जहां तालाब बनेंगे, वहीं जैविक खाद के लिए 5 लाख गड्ढे बनाकर जैविक खाद बनाई जाएगी। आज हम जहर खा रहे हैं, नित्य-प्रति कैंसर बढ़ रहा है। मैं गांव में जाता हूं तो कोई गांव ऐसा नहीं है, जिसमें दस-बीस कैंसर के रोगी न मिलें। उसका परिणाम क्या है। हमने हरित क्रांति के नाम पर इतना खाद लाकर डाल दिया, जिसके कारण अनेक प्रकार की बीमारियां बढ़ गईं और आज हास्पिटल भरे पड़े हैं। जहां इससे गांव के लोगों को रोजगार मिलेगा, गोबर का उपयोग होगा, उसके साथ-साथ बढ़िया कैटेगरी का खाद भी मिलेगा, रोगों में रूकावट आएगी और अनेक प्रकार की व्यवस्थायें उसमें बनेंगी। 18.00 hours 

          इसी तरह मैं आपसे एक निवेदन करना चाहूंगा। मैं माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी और सरकार का बहुत-बहुत आभार व्यक्त करना चाहूंगा। मैंने पिछली बार माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी से निवेदन किया था कि मेरा क्षेत्र सीकर ऐसे स्थान पर है जहां 6-7 जिले जुड़ते हैं। हमें एक मेडिकल कॉलेज चाहिए। उन्होंने 15 दिन के भीतर आदेश कर दिए। वहां अभी प्रिंसिपल भी नियुक्त हो गया है। अगले बजट में मेडिकल कॉलेज चालू हो जाएगा। राजस्थान को पहले 7 मेडिकल कॉलेज दिए गए थे। मैं माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी से एक निवेदन जरूर करना चाहूंगा कि उनके लिए बजट की आवश्यकता है। हम माननीय मुख्य मंत्री जी से मिले थे। उन्होंने कहा कि आप केन्द्र सरकार से कहिए कि बजट चाहिए, ताकि उसके बाद सभी 8 मेडिकल कॉलेज चल सकें। इस साल भी दो नए एम्स गुजरात और छत्तीसगढ़ में दिए गए हैं।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :  कृपया अपनी बात कम्प्लीट कीजिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री सुमेधानन्द सरस्वती :  ठीक है।          हमारे पूर्व वक्ताओं द्वारा बहुत सी बातें कही गई हैं। मैं अपने क्षेत्र के बारे में 2-3 बातें कहना चाहता हूं।...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष : माननीय सदस्यों, छ : बज गए हैं और अभी बहुत से माननीय सदस्यों ने बोलना है। अगर आप एग्री करें तो हम एक घंटे का समय बढ़ा देते हैं। कई माननीय सदस्य : ठीक है। माननीय अध्यक्ष :  धन्यवाद। श्री सुमेधानन्द सरस्वती :  सीकर से दिल्ली का ब्रॉडगेज का काम पूरा हो चुका है। हमारी सरकार ने पर्याप्त बजट दिया है। उस पर लोकल ट्रेन चल गई है। लेकिन सीकर से दिल्ली के लिए एक दैनिक ट्रेन चाहिए जो वहां से रात को चलकर प्रात: काल यहां पहुंचे। पहले एक ट्रेन मीटर गेज पर चलती थी। हमें वह ट्रेन मिलनी चाहिए। इसी तरह अजमेर से दिल्ली के लिए वाया रिंगस होकर जनशताब्दी नाम से एक ट्रेन आती थी। उसे बंद कर दिया गया है जिससे लोगों को बहुत कष्ट हो रहा है। इसलिए वह ट्रेन भी चालू होनी चाहिए। हमारे क्षेत्र में पानी की बहुत समस्या है। पूरा राजस्थान पानी की समस्या से जूझ रहा है। वहां माननीय मुख्य मंत्री जी ने अभी डीपीआर की घोषणा की है। मैं निवेदन करूंगा कि सीकर जिले की 8 तहसीलों में से 7 तहसीलें ड्राउट जोन घोषित हो चुकी हैं जिससे वहां पानी का संकट पैदा हो गया है। यदि पर्याप्त मात्रा में साधन मिल जाएं तो लोगों को पानी मिल सकता है। मैं पुन : बजट के इस कार्य्रकम के अवसर पर स्वागत, धन्यवाद, आभार और समर्थन करता हूं। *SHRI MD. BADARUDDOZA KHAN ( MURSHIDABAD ): In this Budget, we have expected that the Union Government will consider the problems of unemployment, NPA and black money stashed abroad.  Our Prime Minister has promised for 2 crores employment every year but in last year only 1.5 lakh youths are employed.  It is a frustrating picture. Due to demonetization huge amount of money has been deposited to banks.  Now Government want to lend this money to the corporates.  But what is the actual position of the banks.  Banks are facing much difficulties due to huge amount of NPA.  Actually big corporates are responsible for this NPA.  Government is giving incentive to the banks.  This NPA which is actually the money of the common people.  If again the Government lends money to the corporates, NPA will grow and finally bank will face insolvency.  If Government lends this money to the farmers and small enterprises at an affordable interest rate then it will help agriculture sector to increase their income and finally, it will create more employment. Regarding black money, this Budget has again failed to give any direction, how the black money stashed abroad will come back?  Government is announcing about setting up of SIT and making some laws. There is no mention about Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana in this Budget.  We the MPs are now frustrated and not selecting any more gram panchayat for his purpose. MNREGA, ICDS and Sarba Siksha Abhiyan – thesse are the priority sector for the poor.  But the allocation of funds has increased nominally in these sector.  There was a necessity to improve the quality of Mid-day meal but in this sector also fund allocation is not sufficient. It is appreciable in this Budget that a sum of Rs. 6,000 will be given to the pregnant woman. Again in agriculture, Government is declaring MSP for some crops every year.  But it is also a mater of great regret that the farmers are not getting this benefit.  However, the middlemans are capturing this benefit with the nexus of purchasing centres. So, I urge upon the Government to set up a mechanism in such a way that the farmers can sell their crops instantly by cash or cheque. श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ) : अध्यक्ष महोदया, भारत के बजट का मात्र 12 प्रतिशत ही विकास पर खर्च होता है। बाकी 88 प्रतिशत सब्सिडी और तनख्वाह पर खर्च होता है। हम सदन में बैठकर 12 प्रतिशत में कौन सी क्रान्ति करते हैं। यह मेरा पहला प्रश्न है। दूसरा, यदि एजुकेशन और हैल्थ में क्रान्ति हो गई है तो पॉलिटिशियन्स और पदाधिकारियों के बच्चे सरकारी स्कूल और सदर अस्पताल में इलाज क्यों नहीं करवाते। यदि क्रान्ति हो चुकी है तो पॉलिटिशियन्स के बच्चों को कम्पलसरी सरकारी स्कूल और सरकारी अस्पताल में इलाज कराने के लिए हमारे क्रान्तिकारी प्रधान मंत्री जी को निर्णय ले लेना चाहिए।...(व्यवधान) एजुकेशन के मामले में हिन्दुस्तान में डेढ़ लाख स्कूल और 12 लाख शिक्षक नहीं हैं। यह आपका बजट कहता है। सरकारी स्कूल और बड़े स्कूलों में आसमान-पाताल का कितना फर्क है, मैं नहीं बता सकता। आप डिजिटल एजुकेशन की बात करते हैं। यदि एजुकेशन की बात करें तो मैं सबसे पहले आग्रह करूंगा कि क्वालिटी फैकल्टी एजुकेशन, प्रत्येक जिले में नवोदय और सैंट्रल स्कूल, टीचर की गुणवत्ता और क्वालिटी डैवलप करनी चाहिए। दूसरा, अस्पताल विकेन्द्रीकरण का सवाल है। उत्तम अर्थ नीति संरचना को चरितार्थ करने के लिए विकेन्द्रीकरण अर्थव्यवस्था का होना आवश्यक है। मैं आग्रह करना चाहूंगा कि  आंध्र प्रदेश सरकार ने विभाजन से पहले आबादी के अनुपात में दलित व्यक्ति, दलित परिवार, दलित बस्ती में पैसे खर्च करने के बारे में कानून बनाया था जिसे Tribal Sub-plan (TSP) and Central SCP कहते हैं। अभी आपने 21 लाख 44 हजार करोड़ रुपये का बजट दिया है। एससी/एसटी पर मात्र 52 हजार करोड़ रुपये है जबकि आबादी के अनुसार तीन लाख करोड़ रुपये एससी/एसटी पर खर्च होना चाहिए। हम लोग यहां बड़ी-बड़ी बातें करते हैं, आबादी के अनुसार क्या है उसे हम लोगों को जानना चाहिए। चिट फंड कंपनी से पीड़ित लोग जंतर मंतर पर भूख हड़ताल पर बैठे हुए हैं। चिट फंड कंपनी ने भारत की ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था को तहस-नहस कर दिया है। चिट फंड कंपनी से पैसा लौटाने के लिए आप क्या व्यवस्था कर रहे हैं। महोदया, देश में लगभग 16-17 करोड़ बटाईदार किसान है, 10 करोड़ किसान खेती पर आधारित हैं, 65-70 करोड़ में से 40-50 करोड़ लोग खेतिहर मजदूर हैं, इन लोगों के लिए कोई नीति नहीं है। मानव सूचकांक में 187 देशों में भारत का स्थान 130वां है। 183 देशों में भारत जीडीपी 183 वां स्थान पर है, प्रोस्पेरिटी सूचकांक में 28वां है। वर्ष 1950-51 में 53.1 फीसदी जबकि 1990-91 में घटकर 29.6 और 2011-12 में 13.9 यानि देश की आबादी की 58 फीसदी किसान शोषित और वंचित है। भारत में 25 वर्ष पहले हर दिन पांच हजार बच्चे मर जाते थे जबकि आज रोजाना 13,500 बच्चे कुपोषण और भुखमरी के शिकार हैं। दुनिया में 14,600 बच्चे हर रोज मरते हैं। 70 वर्ष के बाद देश विकास के मामले में तेजी से आगे बढ़ा लेकिन स्वास्थ्य के मामले में जीडीपी 1.4 प्रतिशत यानि हम श्रीलंका, थाइलैंड, चीन, ब्राजील देशों से नीचे हैं। स्वास्थ्य पर बजट नहीं है। अध्यक्ष महोदया, हम कम्पलसरी एजुकेशन और हेल्थ को क्यों नहीं लाते हैं। एजुकेशन के लिए कोचिंग में सबसे ज्यादा आम आदमी, किसान और गरीब के बेटे पिसते हैं, आप कोचिंग फ्री क्यों नहीं करते। सरकार की तरफ से स्वास्थ्य जांच को फ्री क्यों नहीं करते? सबसे ज्यादा शोषण जांच घर में होता है। डॉक्टर जबर्दस्ती जांच लिखता है, दवाई को सस्ता क्यों नहीं करते? 140 महिलाओं में जन्म देने के दौरान मरने का जोखिम रहता है, यह आंकड़ा श्रीलंका और चीन जैसी पड़ोसी से भी  ज्यादा है। चालीस हजार डॉक्टर, चालीस लाख नर्सों की कमी है और सत्तर हजार बेड की कमी है। आंगनबाड़ी, सेबी और ममता। एक हजार की आबादी पर एक आंगनबाड़ी कार्यकर्ता होता है। वर्तमान में तेरह लाख आंगनबाड़ी चल रहा है, 15वीं लोक सभा की आठवीं रिपोर्ट में 2011 का कार्य करने वाली आंगनबाड़ी कार्यकर्ताओं को स्थाई नहीं किया गया है। आईटी कंपनी की साठ फीसदी आमदनी अमेरिका से होती है।  बिहार सबसे गरीब प्रांत है। आईटी के मामले में बिहार को बढ़ाना चाहिए। मगध अर्थव्यवस्था का केन्द्र था। कोसी में हाई डैम से एक विद्युत परियोजना बने। आपने कोसी के सहरसा में एम्स दिया है, कुछ ट्रेन को सहरसा और कोसी क्षेत्र के गरीब प्रदेश को बढ़ाने के लिए दिया जाए। मगध में आरा और गया का इलाका है इसमें डैम के चलते किसान मर रहे हैं, आप डैम को बढ़ावा दीजिए। आप एजुकेशन और हेल्थ को बढ़ावा दीजिए, तभी हम सब आगे बढ़ पाएंगे। *डॉ. वीरेन्द्र कुमार (टीकमगढ़) ः मैं सरकार द्वारा वर्ष 2017-18 के लिए प्रस्तुत किए गए इस अभूतपूर्व एवं ऐतिहासिक बजट का समर्थन करता हूं। यह बजट सरकार के ढाई साल के कार्यों और भविष्य में उठाए जाने वाले महत्वपूर्ण कदमों के बीच की कड़ी है। इससे न केवल ग्रामीण भारत की स्थिति में आमूल-चूल परिवर्तन होगा, बल्कि लोगों की जीवनशैली और उनकी वित्तीय स्थिति में भी जबरदस्त सुधार आयेगा। यह बजट इस दृष्टि से भी महत्वपूर्ण है कि एक बार फिर से आदरणीय मोदी जी की सरकार ने गांव, गरीब और किसानों के कल्याण को अपनी चिंता के केन्द्र में रखा है। देश के इस तबके के विकास के साथ सरकार देश को प्रगति के रास्ते पर ले जाने के लिए प्रतिबद्ध है। यह स्पष्ट तौर पर इस बजट में परिलक्षित होता है। सरकार द्वारा आम बजट के साथ रेल बजट का विलय करने से इस क्षेत्र के विकास में मदद मिलेगी। सरकार द्वारा इस बजट में युवाओं के विकास के साथ ही लघु, मध्यम  एवं सूक्ष्म उद्योगों के क्षेत्र में कर में कमी करने से छोटे उद्यमियों को अपने कारोबार में मदद मिलेगी तथा उनकी स्थिति में गुणात्मक सुधार आयेगा। यह बजट देश की कोटि-कोटि जनता के सपनों को पूरा करने वाला बजट है। रेलवे के आधुनिकीकरण से आर्थिक सुधारों तक शिक्षा से स्वास्थ्य और उद्यमिता से उद्योग तक सभी की अपेक्षाओं पर यह बजट खरा उतर रहा है। इस बजट की मुख्य विशेषता यह है कि इसमें दाल से लेकर डाटा तक ध्यान दिया गया है तथा देश के हर नागरिक के लिए कुछ न कुछ प्रावधान जरूर किया गया है। इस बजट से देश में विश्वास का माहौल बनेगा और देश में अर्थतंत्र को ताकत मिलेगी। इस बजट के आर्थिक प्रावधानों से देश में हाईवे भी बनेंगे और रेलवे के आधुनिकीकरण से लेकर शिक्षा और स्वास्थ्य तक के क्षेत्र में बहुत बड़े बदलाव आयेंगे। यह बजट देश को तीव्रता से आर्थिक विकास की ओर ले जाना वाला बजट है। सरकार ने इस बजट में आर्थिक पहलुओं के साथ सामाजिक समानता का भी ध्यान रखा है। सरकार ने नोटबंदी और जी0एस0टी के ऐतिहासिक महत्वपूर्ण फैसले लिए हैं। इससे देश भ्रष्टाचार मुक्त होकर विकास की नई इबारत लिखेगा। वर्ष 2017-18 में रेलवे के लिए कुल पूंजी और विकास व्ययय 1 लाख 31 हजार करोड़ र0 रहने का अंदाजा लगाया गया है। इसमें सरकार द्वारा बजट में उपलब्ध कराई गई 55 हजार करोड़ र0 की धनराशि भी शामिल है। हर दृष्टि से यह बजट पारदर्शी तथा प्रेरक है। वित्त प्रबंधन का एक अद्वितीय उदाहरण यह बजट प्रस्तुत करता है। आज हमारा देश जिस मोड़ पर खड़ा है, उसमें इस बजट से भविष्य की बहुत सारी उम्मीदें पैदा होती हैं। इसके पीछे माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी की दूरदृष्टि की सराहना लाजमी है। देश में विमुद्रीकरण के बाद देश को डिजिटल बनाने का प्रयास भी सराहनीय है। इसके साथ ही नौजवानों को रोजगारपरक शिक्षा देने और हर गांव तक बिजली पहुंचाने के प्रयास इस सरकार की दूरदृष्टि का परिचायक है। भ्रष्टाचार से मुक्ति और पारदर्शिता के लिए सरकार देश के डिजिटलीकरण पर जोर दे रही है। सरकार ने इस बजट में तीन अन्य ऐतिहासिक कदम उठाए हैं, जिनमें 3 लाख तक से ज्यादा की नकदी लेन-देन का निषेध, ट्रस्टों के लिए नकदी चंदा 2 हजार र0 तक लेने और दलों के लिए भी इतनी ही नकदी की सीमा बांधना इस सरकार का एक अभूतपूर्व कदम है। राजनीति में शुचिता लाने के लिए सरकार द्वारा उठाया गया यह एक अति महत्वपूर्ण कदम है। इससे राजनैतिक भ्रष्टाचार पर भी काफी हद तक अंकुश लगाने में मदद मिलेगी। इस बजट से पहले बहुत कम लोगों को इस बात का अंदाजा था कि यह आम बजट देश में राजनैतिक सुधार का रास्ता बनाने में अति उपयोगी सिद्ध होगा तथा साथ ही सरकार ने इस बजट के माध्यम से यह आश्वासन भी दिया है कि देश में राजनीतिक सुधारों का सिलसिला अब जल्दी ही शुरू होने वाला है। निःसंदेह सरकार ने देश की आर्थिक दिशा को और अधिक स्पष्ट करने के लिए आम बजट के रूप में मिले अवसर का भरपूर फायदा उठाया है। सरकार राजकोषीय घाटे को 3 प्रतिशत के लक्ष्य के पास पहुंचाती नजर आ रही है। फिलहाल माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने बजट में इसके 3.2 प्रतिशत रहने का अनुमान व्यक्त किया है और यह भरोसा दिया है कि अगले साल 3 प्रतिशत का लक्ष्य हासिल कर लिया जाएगा। यह एक स्वागत योग्य कदम है। हर दृष्टि से यह एक क्रांतिकारी बजट है, जो देश में बड़े बदलाव का मार्ग प्रशस्त करता है। इसका एक कारण जो राजनैतिक फंडिंग में साफ-सफाई तो है ही, रोजगार के सृजन पर सरकार का जोर तथा कृषि और गांव की अर्थव्यवस्था पर नए सिरे से सरकार द्वारा ध्यान दिया जाना है। गांव, कृषि और उससे जुड़े क्षेत्रों में बजट का आवंटन करीब 25 प्रतिशत बढ़ा दिया गया है क्योंकि देश की आर्थिक बुनियाद को और अधिक सुदृढ़ करने के लिए इसकी अति आवश्यकता थी । इसी तरह बुनियादी ढांचे के निवेश में करीब 25 प्रतिशत की वृद्धि, विकास दर को तेज करने के लिए आवश्यक है। सरकार ने इसके लिए अपना इरादा स्पष्ट कर दिया है। सरकार द्वारा प्रस्तुत इस आम बजट में देश में खेलों को बढ़ावा देने पर भी ध्यान केन्द्रित किया गया है। इसके तहत माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने खेल मंत्रालय को 1943 करोड़ र0 आवंटित किए हैं, जो कि पिछले साल आवंटित राशि 1592 करोड़ र0 से 350 करोड़ र0 अधिक है। अब चूंकि, हमारे खिलाड़ी 2018 के कॉमनवेल्थ गेम्स और एशियाई खेलों की तैयारी कर रहे हैं, जिसके लिए भारतीय खेल प्राधिकरण को 481 करोड़ र0 आवंटित किए गए हैं। जबकि पिछले साल यह रकम 416 करोड़ र0 थी। इसी तरह राष्ट्रीय खेल महासंघों को दी जाने वाली आर्थिक सहायता 185 करोड़ र0 से बढ़ाकर 302 करोड़ र0 कर दी गई है। देश में खेल प्रतिभाओं को तलाशने और तराशने के लिए 50 लाख र0 का प्रावधान किया गया है तथा "खेलो इण्डिया " के लिए कुल आवंटन 140 करोड़ र0 से बढ़ाकर 350 करोड़ र0 कर दिया गया है। देश के युवाओं को खेलों के लिए प्रेरित करने के लिए सरकार द्वारा उठाए गए उक्त कदम प्रशंसनीय है। इस बजट की अत्यन्त महत्वपूर्ण बात यह रही कि माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने राष्ट्रपिता महात्मा गांधी के एक कथन कि ”सही मकसद से उठाया गया कदम कभी बेकार नहीं होता है”, का भी अपने बजट भाषण में उल्लेख किया। माननीय वित्त मंत्री जी ने अपने बजट भाषण में कहा कि देश में विमुद्रीकरण से बैंकों के पास आई अतिरिक्त पूंजी से उधारी लागत कम होगी और ऋण तक लोगों की पहुंच आसान होगी, जिसके परिणामस्वरूप देश में आर्थिक गतिविधियों में तेजी आयेगी। इस बजट का सूत्र वाक्य - ”सबका साथ-सबका विकास” रहा, जिससे सरकार की देश के हर नागरिक के कल्याण की चिंता परिलक्षित होती है। देश के ऋषितुल्य एवं हमारे यशस्वी प्रधानमंत्री आदरणीय मोदी जी का एक ही सपना है कि देश के हर शोषित, पीड़ित और वंचित को देश के आर्थिक विकास के फायदों से अविलम्ब जोड़ा जाए। उसी के लिए वे रात-दिन एक त्यागशील राष्ट्र पुरूष के रूप में देश को आगे ले जाने के लिए कठोर परिश्रम कर रहे हैं तथा अपने राजनैतिक साथियों को भी ऐसा ही करने की प्रेरणा दे रहे हैं, जिससे देश के हर पीड़ित व्यक्ति की सुध ली जा सके। अब अंत में, मैं मध्य प्रदेश के अपने संसदीय क्षेत्र टीकमगढ़-छतरपुर के विकासपुर के बारे में भी कुछ मांगें सरकार के सामने रखना चाहता हूं। हमारे संसदीय क्षेत्र के अन्तर्गत आने वाले छतरपुर में एन0टी0पी0सी0 की चल रही परियोजना के लिए आवंटन बढ़ाया जाए तथा इस परियोजना को जल्द से जल्द पूरा किया जाए। इसके अलावा छतरपुर प्राकृतिक सम्पदा से भी बहुत समृद्ध स्थान है। यहां पर खनिज तथा लोहा प्रचुर मात्रा में पाया जाता है। यहां के प्राकृतिक संसाधनों को ध्यान में रखते हुए यहां पर स्टील का कारखाना लगाया जाए। इससे न सिर्फ छतरपुर का विकास होगा, बल्कि यहां के स्थानीय लोगों को रोजगार भी मिल सकेगा। मेरे संसदीय क्षेत्र के अन्तर्गत आने वाले दूसरे जिले टीकमगढ़ के निवासियों का मुख्य व्यवसाय कृषि एवं पशुपालन है। टीकमगढ़ जिले में उन्नत कृषि को ध्यान में रखते हुए वहां पर कृषि आधारित उद्योग लगाए जा सकते हैं, जिसके चलते लोगों में कृषि कार्यों के प्रति रूचि बढ़ेगी तथा स्थानीय लोगों को कृषि और कृषि पर आधारित उद्योगों में रोजगार मिल जाने से उनका देश के अन्य महानगरों की ओर होने वाला पलायन भी रूकेगा। इसी के साथ मैं एक बार पुनः माननीय वित्त मंत्री द्वारा प्रस्तुत इस बजट का स्वागत करते हुए इसका पुरजोर समर्थन करता हूं। श्री रत्न लाल कटारिया ( अम्बाला ) : माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, आज विश्व की अर्थव्यवस्थाओं में उथल-पुथल मची हुई है। अमरीका में सत्ता परिवर्तन के पश्चात् डोनाल्ड ट्रम्प ने जो स्टैप्स उठाए हैं और इंग्लैण्ड में ब्रेकसिट की घटना हुई है। इस सबके बावजूद आदरणीय वित्त मंत्री जेटली जी ने बजट को देश की अर्थव्यवस्था में सुधार कर पारदर्शी बनाकर पटरी पर लाने का जो प्रयत्न किया है, मैं उन्हें इसके लिए बहुत बधाई देना चाहता हूं। अध्यक्ष जी, आज भी हमारे देश का फॉरेन एक्सचेंज 361 बिलियन यूएस डॉलर के करीब है। यह 20 जनवरी, 2017 का आंकड़ा है। सरकार ने जिस तरह मितव्ययिता से काम लिया है और करंट एकाउंट डेफिसिट को भी एक परसेंट से 0.3 परसेंट तक लाई है। इसके बावजूद आलम यह है कि विरोधी पक्ष के युवराज कह रहे थे कि हम तो सोच रहे थे कि आतिशबाजी होगी लेकिन यह बजट तो फुस्स निकला।मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि 

जो हैं खुद फ्यूज बल्ब, वह हमें फुस्स पटाखा बताते हैं, 

अरबों-खरबों के जिनके स्विस बैंक में एकाउंट हैं, 

                 वे अपने कुर्ते की जेब में हाथ डालकर अपनी सादगी का...*रचाते हैं। आज हिन्दुस्तान ऐसे ... * माननीय अध्यक्ष : ऐसे शब्द रिकार्ड में नहीं जाएंगे। …( व्यवधान) HON. SPEAKER: I have asked it to be expunged. … (Interruptions) श्री रत्न लाल कटारिया : राजनीतिक चंदे में पारदर्शिता लाने के लिए सीमा को 20,000 से घटाकर 2,000 रुपए किया गया है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि राजनैतिक दलों के चंदे में पारदर्शिता जब अपना रंग दिखाएगी, न जाने कितने सामने वालों के चेहरों की रौनक उड़ जाएगी। अध्यक्ष जी, बजट में गरीबों के लिए 52,000 करोड़ रुपए और एसटी समाज के लिए 32,000 करोड़ रुपए का बजट में प्रावधान किया गया है। इस कारण सामाजिक क्षेत्र की परियोजनाएं फाइनेंशियल इन्कलूजन के लिए देश में चल रही हैं, अपना रंग ला रही हैं। नोटबंदी के पश्चात गरीबों ने अपने घरों में दीवाली मनाई थी। जैसे ही 8 नवंबर को घोषणा हुई, मुझे बहुत से गरीब लोगों का फोन आया, उन्होंने कहा हम सधन्यवाद जन नायक भारत के लाल मोदी जी को देना चाहते हैं, जिन्होंने एक झटके में ही गरीब अमीर को बराबर कर दिया। यहां नोटबंदी पर बहुत विस्तार से चर्चा हुई है। मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि जो लोग देश की अर्थव्यवस्था को लूट रहे थे, कालाबाजारी कर रहे थे, जो आतंकवाद में शामिल थे, जो ड्रग माफिया थे, फिरौती में शामिल थे, उन लोगों की नोटबंदी के बाद नींद हराम हो गई है। उनको रात को पलंग पर लेटते हुए भी मोदी-मोदी नजर आता है कि न जाने कब हमारे माल तक सरकारी शिकंजा पहुंच जाये। इस प्रकार की परिस्थितियों में हमारे सामने जो बजट आया है, उसकी देश के चारों ओर प्रशंसा हो रही है। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :   कटारिया जी, आप अपनी बात कम्प्लीट कीजिए। …( व्यवधान) श्री रत्न लाल कटारिया ( अम्बाला ) :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, मुझे अभी बोलते हुए दो मिनट ही हुए हैं। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय अध्यक्ष :   ठीक है, आप अपनी बात जल्दी कम्प्लीट कीजिए। श्री रत्न लाल कटारिया : अध्य़क्ष महोदया, बजट में महिलाओं के सशक्तिकरण, एयर कनेक्टिविटी, रेल कनेक्टिविटी, रोड कनेक्टिविटी और सी कनेक्टिविटी को बढ़ाने के लिए पांच लाख करोड़ रुपये का प्रावधान किया गया है। इससे भारत को विश्व पावर बनने का एक मौका मिलेगा। अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं आपके माध्यम से आदरणीय वित्त मंत्री और रेल मंत्री जी से प्रार्थना करना चाहूंगा, हालांकि बजट में रेलवे के लिए एक लाख करोड़ रुपया सेफ्टी और बहुत सारी परियोजनाओं के लिए रखा गया है। लेकिन मेरे अम्बाला लोक सभा क्षेत्र की एक परियोजना - यमुना नगर से चंडीगढ़ तक की रेलवे लाइऩ पिछले बीस वर्षों से अटकी हुई है। पिछले वर्ष रेलवे बजट में इस योजना के लिए 25 करोड़ रुपये दिये गये थे, लेकिन आज वह फाइल नीति आयोग के पास पड़ी हुई है। हमें बताया जा रहा है कि राज्य सरकार और केन्द्र सरकार की जो ज्वाइंट वेंचर कमेटी बनेगी, उसके माध्यम से वह रेल लाइन बनेगी। अध्यक्ष महोदया, मेरी इस विषय पर हरियाणा के मुख्य मंत्री श्री मनोहर लाल खट्टर जी से भी बातचीत हुई है। वह परियोजना मेरे क्षेत्र की जीवन रेखा है और एक ड्रीम प्रोजैक्ट है। वैसे तो सारे देश का ध्यान रखा जाता है, लेकिन मैं मंत्री जी को बताना चाहूंगा कि मेरे लोक सभा क्षेत्र की नौ विधान सभाओं में भारतीय जनता पार्टी के एमएलएज हैं। मेरे क्षेत्र की जनता ने बीजेपी को पूरा समर्थन दिया है। मैं भी साढ़े तीन लाख वोटों से जीतकर आया हूं। अध्यक्ष महोदया, मेरी आदरणीय वित्त मंत्री और प्रधान मंत्री जी से प्रार्थना है कि इस रेलवे लाइन की ओर ध्यान दिया जाये। बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। HON. SPEAKER: Now, Shri N.K. Premachandran Ji. You will be given only five minutes. Yesterday, you spoke. You have been given enough time. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): I have given a notice questioning the merger of Railway Budget with the General Budget. But, unfortunately, at the time of presentation of the Budget, this matter could not be taken up. So, kindly allow me two minutes bonus time. Madam, first of all, I would like to place on record my serious objection to merging of the Railway Budget in the General Budget without following the due procedure which is being accepted by this august House. The Government is violating the convention of this House which is being followed since 1949. The Railways is playing a very important role in maintaining the integrity and unity of the country. I do accept the observation made by the Government that Railways’ share in the transportation sector is diminishing, that is why a separate Budget for Railways is not required. In the year 1949, the Constituent Assembly also adopted a Resolution in tune with the Resolution of 1924. In the year 1924, at the time of the British Government, it was specifically stated and adopted by the Legislative Assembly that the Railway Budget should be separated from the General Budget, that is, the Railway Finance should be separated from the General Finance. In 1949, the Constituent Assembly adopted a Resolution in tune with the Resolution of 1924. I would like to quote the resolution which was passed on 21st December, 1949. Clause 1 of the said Resolution says: 19.00 hours 

          महोदया, प्रधान मंत्री जी की नजर में फ्यूचर का मतलब यह है, एफ यानी फार्मर। कृषि केन्द्रित इस बजट में इस क्षेत्र की विकास दर निश्चित की गई है और उसे बढ़ाने का भी प्रयास किया गया है। यू यानी अंडर प्रीविलेज्ड, यानी कि दलित, पीड़ित, शोषित, वंचित और महिलाओं के उत्थान का प्रावधान भी इसमें रखा गया है। टी यानी ट्रांसपेरेंसी, तकनीक के उन्नयन से पारदर्शिता लाकर आधुनिक भारत का सपना साकार करने का भी प्रयास किया गया है। यू यानी अर्बन डेवलपमेंट, जैसे शहरों को अत्याधुनिक बनाना, उनमें सभी मूलभूत सुविधाओं के विकास करने का लक्ष्य रखा गया है। आर यानी रूरल डेवलपमेंट, गाँवों में बसने वाले भारत और वहाँ के लोगों का जीवन-स्तर बेहतर बनाने का भी प्रावधान रखा है। ई यानी इम्प्लिमेंट, हर हाथ को काम, हर प्रतिभा को मुकाम देने की राह को प्रशस्त करना। इन दस मजबूत पिलर्स पर आधारित यह बजट हमारे पूरे देश के लिए अत्यंत लाभकारी व विकास की राह पर केन्द्रित है। महोदया, जैसी प्रधान मंत्री जी की कार्यशैली है कि जिन योजनाओं का शिलान्यास हम करते हैं, उनका लोकार्पण भी हम करते हैं। यू.पी.ए. सरकार में प्रधान मंत्री ग्राम सड़क योजना के तहत सिर्फ प्रतिदिन 73 किलोमीटर ग्राम सड़क बनती थी, अब एन.डी.ए. सरकार के समय में प्रतिदिन 133 किलोमीटर की ग्राम सड़कें बनती हैं। इसके लिए 19 हजार करोड़ का बजटीय प्रावधान किया गया है। महोदया, मैं अपनी डिमांड रखकर अपनी बात समाप्त करती हूँ। मैं एक बात कहना चाहती हूँ। यह बात स्वच्छता से जुड़ी हुई है। स्वच्छता ईश्वर के नजदीक होने का एक अहसास भी दिलाती है और नतीजा यह है कि सबने जो यह आन्दोलन चलाकर काम किया है, इससे हमें परिणाम भी मिला है। 450 से ज्यादा शहरों, 1.40 लाख गाँवों, 77 जिलों और तीन राज्यों ने खुद को खुले में टॉयलेट जाने के अभिशाप से मुक्ति भी पाई है। मैं और ज्यादा न कहते हुए सिर्फ यही कहूँगी कि ‘सबका साथ सबका विकास’ में बालिकाओं और महिलाओं का भी साथ होता है, इसीलिए गाँव स्तर पर भी 14 लाख आँगनबाड़ी केन्द्रों में महिला शक्ति केन्द्र स्थापित करने के लिए 500 करोड़ रूपये का आवंटन किया गया है। महोदया, मैं यह कहना चाहती हूँ कि गुजरात के लिए बजटीय प्रावधान जो किया है, उसमें गाँधी बापू द्वारा स्थापित साबरमती आश्रम की स्वर्णिम जयंती समारोह के लिए केन्द्रीय बजट प्रावधान किया है, इसके लिए मैं धन्यवाद देना चाहूँगी। खासकर के डेयरी उद्योग गुजरात का महत्वपूर्ण उद्योग है, इसके लिए भी आठ हजार करोड़ रूपये का प्रावधान किया है। गुजरात में एम्स की स्थापना भी की जा रही है। मैं यह कहना चाहती हूँ कि पिछले पाँच वर्ष में हमने बहुत सारी डिमांड रेलवे के अन्तर्गत रखीं थीं, मगर इस बजट में क्षेत्र की डिमांड भी, गेज परिवर्तन हो या गेज कन्वर्जन हो, ज्यादातर डिमांड भी बजट में पूरी की गई हैं। मेरी सिर्फ एक माँग है, ये जो पिछले पाँच साल से हमारी सारी डिमांड थीं, कई गुणा ज्यादा डिमांड हमारी पूरी हो चुकी हैं, मगर मैं एक बात कहना चाहती हूँ कि जो वित्त मंत्री जी ने रेलवे को तीर्थ स्थानों से जोड़ने का एक प्रयास करने की बात की है और इसके लिए प्रावधान भी किया है, मेरे क्षेत्र में बहुचरा जी एक बड़ा शक्ति स्थल है, वहाँ जो पूना स्पेशल ट्रेन चलती थी, उसे पुनः कार्यान्वित किया जाये। यही कहकर इस बजट का समर्थन करते हुए मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करती हूँ। धन्यवाद। माननीय अध्यक्ष : अब  छोटे  लाल जी  बोलेंगे। आप  आधा  मिनट  की  कविता कहिए और फिर हम समाप्त करेंगे। श्री छोटेलाल ( राबर्ट्सगंज ) : महोदया, धन्यवाद। मैं इस बजट का समर्थन करता हूँ, यह ऐतिहासिक बजट है। वास्तव में यह दलितों, शोषितों, पीड़ितों, किसानों का बजट है, इसलिए  कदरवान  मोदी जी, पूज्यमान मोदी जी, विकास पुरूष की एक पहचान मोदी जी, दलितों, अति पिछड़ों से आवाज आती कि सचमुच में साक्षात भगवान मोदी जी। जब से प्रधान मंत्री मोदी साहब भईलैं हों, गरीबन के खातिर भगवान बन गइलैं हों, जब से प्रधान मंत्री मोदी साहब भईले हों, गरीबन के खातिर भगवान बन गइलै हों, काला धन अभियान, वापस करो बेईमान, काला धन अभियान, वापस करो बेईमान, बजट पास कईलै, नया बा योजनावा हो, जब से नरेन्द्र मोदी बागडोर धइलैं, आगे बढ़ा लै हिन्दुस्तनवा, जब से नरेन्द्र मोदी बागडोर धइलैं, आगे बढ़ा लै हिन्दुस्तनवा हो। बढ़ते कदम को हम रूकने न देंगे, बढ़ते कदम को हम रूकने न देंगे, घुसपैठियों को हम घुसने ना देंगे, भले सिर कटे या मिटे जिन्दगी से, तिरंगा को अपने हम झुकने न देंगे, तिरंगा को अपने हम झुकने न देंगे। धन्यवाद।