This is first application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973, for grant of bail filed on behalf of the applicant relating to
 FIR/Crime No.438/2019 dated 30.05.2019 registered at Police Station Adhartal,
 District Jabalpur, for the offence punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of IPC. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is in custody
 since 06.06.2023. He submits that the applicant is innocent and has falsely been
 implicated in the case. The applicant has no criminal past. Trial will take Signature Not Verified Signed by: POONAM MANEKAR Signing time: 10/9/2023 2:33:55 PM 2 considerable time to conclude. Upon these submissions, learned counsel prays
 that the applicant may be released on bail. O n the other hand, learned counsel for the State has opposed the bail
 application. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case-diary.
 I n this case, a clone cheque was used to withdraw an amount of
 Rs.96,985/- from the bank account of complainant and it was revealed that this
 amount had landed in the bank account of one Sunil Kumar and not of the
 present applicant i.e. Achin Gupta. Applicant is arrayed as accused on the basis
 of the fact that his mobile number was used in this bank transaction, but the

 entire case diary does not reveal the fact that how that mobile phone was used
 to complete the financial transaction. If it was a case that the cloned cheque was
 having the mobile phone number of applicant, then this fact alone does not
 prima-facie indicate the culpability of applicant. Anyone submitting the cheque
 may write the mobile number of another person on the back side of the cheque.
 There is no procedure to verify whether the person, who is submitting the
 cheque in the bank, owns the sim card of that number. The case diary of crime
 No.438/2023 does not reveal collection of any additional evidence. Having considered these facts, this Court deems it fit to release the
 applicant on bail. Accordingly, this bail application is allowed. It is directed that the applicant shall be released on bail upon his
 furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty
 Thousand Only) with two solvent sureties, one being local surety in the like
 amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court concerned for his appearance
 before the said Court on all such dates as may be fixed in this regard during
 pendency of the trial. It is further directed that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of
 Section 437(3) of the Cr.P.C. Accordingly, this M.Cr.C. stands allowed and disposed of. (ANURADHA SHUKLA)
 JUDGE
 pnm Signature Not Verified Signed by: POONAM MANEKAR Signing time: 10/9/2023 2:33:55 PM