R. MAHADEVAN, J. INTRODUCTION 1. 'Education' is a means to cognitively enlighten the bonded soul by

 empirical methods, which not only transcends beyond the mystical cycle of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 6/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 birth, but also to achieve terrestrial satisfaction and then mundane goals. It is a

 tool to eradicate social injustice. Globalization in every field has resulted in

 creation of more opportunities. Every rational parent, not privileged by

 affluence, strives to get their children educated beyond their means. Their

 quest to fulfil their dreams through their children has envisioned certain

 educational institutions to metamorphose the service, once known and

 worshipped to be a noble occupation, into an opportunity to make money. Our

 Constitution, under various Articles has enunciated the principles for equality

 and equal opportunity, the requirement to protect women, children and the

 youth of this nation and to prevent them from exploitation. 2. Education has been dealt with in the Constitution, in the following

 manner: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 7/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 (4) Nothing in this article or in clause (2) of article 29 shall prevent the State
 from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and
 educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the
 Scheduled Tribes. (5) Nothing in this article or in sub-clause (g) of clause (1) of article 19 shall
 prevent the State from making any special provision, by law, for the
 advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or
 for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special
 provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions including
 private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other
 than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of article 30. (6) Nothing in this article or sub-clause (g) of clause (1) of article 19 or
 clause (2) of article 29 shall prevent the State from making,— (a) any special
 provision for the advancement of any economically weaker sections of citizens
 other than the classes mentioned in clauses (4) and (5); and (b) any special
 provision for the advancement of any economically weaker sections of citizens
 other than the classes mentioned in clauses (4) and (5) in so far as such
 special provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions
 including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the
 State, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1)
 of article 30 , which in the case of reservation would be in addition to the
 existing reservations and subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the total
 seats in each category. Explanation.—For the purposes of this article and article 16 , "economically
 weaker sections" shall be such as may be notified by the State from time to
 time on the basis of family income and other indicators of economic
 disadvantage. ..... Article 19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.— (1)
 All citizens shall have the right—
 ...... (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or
 business
 ..... (6) Nothing in sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of
 any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any
 law imposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on
 the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause, and, in particular,
 nothing in the said sub-clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in
 so far as it relates to, or prevent the State from making any law relating to,— (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any
 profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business, or (ii) the carrying on by the State, or by a corporation owned or controlled by
 the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion,
 complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 8/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 ...... Article 21A. Right to education.—The State shall provide free and
 compulsory education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years in such
 manner as the State may, by law, determine. .............. Article 28.Freedom as to attendance at religious instruction or religious
 worship in certain educational institutions.—(1) No religious instruction shall
 be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of State
 funds. (2) Nothing in clause (1) shall apply to an educational institution which is
 administered by the State but has been established under any endowment or
 trust which requires that religious instruction shall be imparted in such
 institution. (3) No person attending any educational institution recognised by the State or
 receiving aid out of State funds shall be required to take part in any religious
 instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious
 worship that may be conducted in such institution or in any premises attached
 thereto unless such person or, if such person is a minor, his guardian has
 given his consent thereto. Cultural and Educational Rights Article 29. Protection of interests of minorities.—
 (1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part
 thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the
 right to conserve the same. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution
 maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of
 religion, race, caste, language or any of them. Article 30. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational
 institutions.—(1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall
 have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their
 choice. (1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any
 property of an educational institution established and administered by a
 minority, referred to in clause (1), the State shall ensure that the amount fixed
 by or determined under such law for the acquisition of such property is such
 as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause.
 (2) The State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions,
 discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under
 the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language. Directive Principles of State Policy
 .... Article 37. Application of the principles contained in this Part.—The
 provisions contained in this Part shall not be enforceable by any court, but the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 9/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance
 of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in
 making laws. Article 38. State to secure a social order for the promotion of welfare of the
 people.—(1) The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by
 securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice,
 social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national
 life. (2) The State shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in income,
 and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities,
 not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in
 different areas or engaged in different vocations. Article 39.Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.—The State
 shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— (a) that the citizens, men and women equally, have the right to an adequate
 means of livelihood; ...... (e) that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender
 age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic
 necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength;
 [(f) that children are given opportunities and facilities to develop in a healthy
 manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and
 youth are protected against exploitation and against moral and material
 abandonment. .............. Article 41. Right to work, to education and to public assistance in certain
 cases.—The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and
 development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to
 education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age,
 sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want. Article 45. Provision for early childhood care and education to children
 below the age of six years.—The State shall endeavour to provide early
 childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age of
 six years. Prior to the Constitution 86th Amendment Act, 2002 , Article 45 read as under. Provision for free and compulsory education for children.
 “The State shall endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years from the
 commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all
 children until they complete the age of fourteen years” Article 46. Promotion of educational and economic interests of Scheduled
 Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other weaker sections.—The State shall promote
 with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 10/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the
 Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of
 exploitation. ..... Fundamental Duties Article 51A. Fundamental duties.—It shall be the duty of every citizen of India
 ..... (k) who is a parent or guardian to provide opportunities for education to his
 child or, as the case may be, ward between the age of six and fourteen years. Article 243G. Powers, authority and responsibilities of Panchayats.— Subject
 to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislature of a State may, by law,
 endow the Panchayats with such powers and authority as may be necessary to
 enable them to function as institutions of self-government and such law may
 contain provisions for the devolution of powers and responsibilities upon
 Panchayats at the appropriate level, subject to such conditions as may be
 specified therein, with respect to— (a) the preparation of plans for economic
 development and social justice; (b) the implementation of schemes for
 economic development and social justice as may be entrusted to them
 including those in relation to the matters listed in the Eleventh Schedule

 Extract of Eleventh Schedule. .... 17. Education, including primary and secondary schools. 18. Technical training and vocational education. 19. Adult and non-formal education. 20. Libraries Article 243W. Powers, authority and responsibilities of Municipalities, etc.—
 Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislature of a State may,
 by law, endow— (a) the Municipalities with such powers and authority as may
 be necessary to enable them to function as institutions of self-government and
 such law may contain provisions for the devolution of powers and
 responsibilities upon Municipalities, subject to such conditions as may be
 specified therein, with respect to— (i) the preparation of plans for economic
 development and social justice; (ii) the performance of functions and the
 implementation of schemes as may be entrusted to them including those in
 relation to the matters listed in the Twelfth Schedule; (b) the Committees with
 such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable them to carry out
 the responsibilities conferred upon them including those in relation to the
 matters listed in the Twelfth Schedule. Extract of the Twelfth Schedule. ..... 3. Planning for economic and social development. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 11/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 .... 13. Promotion of cultural, educational and aesthetic aspects. Seventh Schedule

 List III - Concurrent List. ...... 25. Education, including technical education, medical education and
 universities, subject to the provisions of entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I;
 vocational and technical training of labour.” 3. The educational system in our country is unique. Our country is diverse

 with beliefs, castes and languages. The above provisions of the Constitution

 make it clear that our forefathers were of the initial opinion that every citizen

 must be provided with atleast basic education upto the age of 14 years and

 hence the States were directed to take steps within 10 years to ensure the same

 under Article 45. Article 41 casts a duty on the State to make effective

 provision for right to education, of-course depending upon their economic

 viability and development. Later, the provisions were amended and ultimately,

 after the declaration of the Apex Court in Mohini Jain v. State of Karnataka [(1992) 3 SCC 666] that right to education is concomitant to fundamental right

 and the Judgment of the Apex Court in Unnikrishnan J.P. and Ors. v. State

 of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. [(1993) 1 SCC 645], wherein, the right to

 education was held to be a fundamental right encompassed by right to life

 under Article 21 of the Constitution, right to free education until the age of

 14 years was held to be absolute and education thereafter, though was still the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 12/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 responsibility of the State, was subject to economic capacity and development

 of the State, by the the 86th Amendment Act, passed in 2002, the Right to

 education was made a fundamental right upto the age of 14 by inserting Article

 21A to the Constitution with effect from 01.04.2010. The States were also

 required to promote and protect the educational and economic interest of the

 weaker section of the people and protect them from social injustice and

 exploitation. Therefore, by the very First Amendment to the Constitution in

 1951, Article 15 was amended to save the challenge to any action taken by the

 State to protect the interest of the weaker sections. The minorities are

 guaranteed a right to establish and maintain educational institutions. The local

 bodies have been entrusted with duties to promote education under the

 Constitution as found in the eleventh and twelfth schedule. By the Constitution

 42nd Amendment Act, 1976, the subject of education was moved from State

 list to Concurrent list. The primary responsibility of education, though was

 reposed with the State, the Constitution also by Article 19 (1)(g) facilitated

 private players in the field of education. Still, such private institutions can be

 treated only as supplementing the efforts of the State and the responsibility of

 the State is never shed away. Equality and equal opportunity in our system is

 achieved through the policy of reservation. Though the reservation was

 initially only contemplated for seats in House of the People and Legislative
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 13/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Assemblies, it was later extended to employment and then, to the field of

 education. The Constitution, though directed the States to endeavour

 protection of weaker section of the society, such protection was made

 available only on socio communal lines and only recently, the economic aspect

 of the social justice has been considered and Article 15 (6) has been inserted

 by One Hundred and Third Amendment with effect from 14.01.2019. The

 Constitution as it imposes a duty upon the State to provide education to its

 citizens, at the same time imposes a duty on the parents to provide education to

 their children. It is the duty of the State to take steps to remove the inequalities

 prevailing in the society. Our Constitution postulates four types of

 backwardness, namely, social, educational, economical and political

 backwardness. On a closer look, 'education' acts as a common tool to assuage

 the inequalities and eradicate other backwardness. The inequalities in the

 system have been abridged through reservation policies, which are an

 exemption to right to equality propounded under Article 15 of the

 Constitution. At the same time, the policies have impacted some meritorious

 students, because all meritorious candidates cannot be accommodated in the

 system, designed to eradicate the inequalities and promote social justice. The

 endeavour of the parents, combined with the aspirations of the students, who

 cannot be blamed, and the failure of the States to fulfil the duties enshrined
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 14/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 upon them by the Constitution, has fed the private educational institutions, to

 further their greed and device methods to collect monies contrary to prescribed

 fee, by circumventing law. Such amount, termed as “Capitation Fee” by the

 Revenue, whereas termed as “Voluntary Contributions” or “Donations” by the

 assessees, is the subject matter of the dispute before this Court. The Appeals 4. All these tax case appeals are filed by the Revenue assailing the orders

 dated 12.04.2017 and 13.11.2019 passed by the Income Tax Appellate

 Tribunal, Chennai, in favour of the respondents/Assessees. 5. On 15.06.2021, this Court admitted the Tax Case Appeal Nos. 303, 304,

 305, 306, 307, 308, 309 and 310 of 2021 by framing the following substantial

 questions of law: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 15/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch 6. Subsequently, on 22.02.2022, TCA Nos. 59, 60, 62 and 63 of 2022 were

 admitted by raising the following questions of law: 7. As the issues involved in all these appeals are common, they were taken

 up for hearing together and were disposed of by this common judgment. Brief facts of the case

 8.1. The respondent in TCA Nos.60/2022 and 304, 307 and 308/2021

 relating to the assessment years 2011-12, 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15

 respectively / Sri Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust is an Assessee

 on the file of the Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption), Chennai. They had registered themselves as Charitable Trust under Section 12A (a) of

 The Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short, “the Act”) vide order bearing C.No.1146-

 III (58)/84 dated 02.08.1984. They had filed their return of income admitting

 'nil' income for the assessment year 2011-12 on 28.09.2011. 8.2. The assessing officer had taken up the return of income filed by the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 16/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 assessee for scrutiny under Section 143 (1) of the Act and issued notice under Section 143 (2) of the Act. In response, the representative of the Assessee

 appeared and submitted details called for from time to time. On verification of

 return of income and other details during scrutiny, it unfolded that

 Rs.9,90,50,000/- was received by the Assessee as corpus donation from

 M/s. MAC Charities, M/s. MAC Public Charitable Trust and M/s. Spic

 Educational Foundation etc. This amount was received by the Assessee as

 donations from number of persons. In order to verify the same, elaborate

 exercise was undertaken by the Assessing Officer by issuing summons to

 various persons and their sworn statements were recorded. 8.3. During the enquiry, it revealed that the said amount was paid to

 M/s.United Educational Foundation, in lieu of procuring seats in Sri

 Venkateswara College of Engineering located at Sriperumbudur,

 Kancheepuram District, which is a unit of the Assessee - Sri Venkateswara

 Educational and Health Trust. On further analysis, the Assessing Officer

 concluded that there was a nexus between M/s. United Educational

 Foundation, M/s. MAC Charities, M/s. MAC Public Charitable Trust and Sri

 Venkateswara College of Engineering. The Assessing Officer also concluded

 that the Assessee utilised M/s.United Educational Foundation, M/s. MAC

 Charities, M/s.MAC Public Charitable Trust as a tool for transfer of capitation
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 17/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 fees received from the students and thereby virtually sold education for a price. Such practice of receiving donation and/or capitation fee as a condition

 precedent for admitting a student is opposed to the provisions of the Tamil

 Nadu Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of Capitation Fee)

 Act, 1992 . The enquiry also unfolded that the Assessee demanded and insisted

 the parents of the students, who wish to get admission for their children, to pay

 capitation fee to the other trust in the name of their relatives or friends of the

 parents, but not in their name. The parents also, in the interest of admitting

 their children in the said College, were forced to pay capitation fee in the name

 of their relatives or friends. According to the Assessing Officer, the analysis of

 the fund transactions confirms that the Assessee made to appear that the

 contributors voluntarily paid the capitation fee, which was channelised

 through M/s. United Educational Foundation. Thus, the Assessee had

 purposefully and intentionally channelised the capitation fee in the name of

 donations back to themselves, thereby exempting the receipt of amount at both

 ends. 8.4. In the case of M/s. United Educational Foundation, the Assessing

 Officer was of the view that donations were received purportedly under

 capitation fee from the students for getting admission and it was ineligible for

 exemption under Section 11 of the Act. The amount so received was
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 18/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 transferred through M/s. MAC Charities and M/s. MAC Public Charitable

 Trust as corpus donation and the date of receipt of the amount in the hands of

 M/s. MAC charities, M/s. MAC Public Charitable Trust and Sri Venkateswara

 College of Engineering confirms that the Assessee had systematically adopted

 the same manner of channelising the amount to evade tax. 8.5. The Assessing Officer also noticed that as per the Trust Deed dated

 01.08.1984, the founder of the Trust was Mr. L.V. Ramaiah, but on

 examination of the supplementary deed dated 13.06.1995, it was executed by

 Dr. A.C. Muthiah. An amendment deed dated 17.12.2011 was also perused

 which indicates that it was executed by Mr. M.H. Avadhani. Therefore, the

 Assessee was called upon to submit evidence for change in trustees and to

 explain, whether it was intimated to the Director of Income Tax (Exemptions),

 but the Assessee failed to respond to the same. 8.6. During the course of hearing, it was informed that M/s. MAC charities

 had received donations from M/s. United Educational Foundation, out of

 which, donations were given to the Assessee trust. But, it was not informed as

 to when some of the donors to M/s. United Educational Foundation, were

 summoned, examined on oath and stated that the donations were paid in lieu of

 admission of some students known to them in the college run by the Assessee. Thus, it is clear that the Assessee is running a college and for admitting the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 19/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 students in the same, they have collected fees from the students in accordance

 with the AICTE norms; apart from the applicable fees, they have also collected

 various other amounts towards tuition fees, campus recruitment, transport etc.,

 in the form of donation with specific direction that these donations shall form

 part of the corpus; and no donations have been collected from any of the

 students. However, the reply of the assessee was not accepted by the assessing

 officer. According to the assessing officer, the Assessee trust and other trusts

 are connected with each other. The capitation fee has been received in lieu of

 procuring seats in Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering as donation by

 M/s. United Educational Foundation and it was systematically routed through

 the other "pass-through" trusts belonging to Mr. A.C. Muthiah and ultimately it

 reached Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering operating under the name

 and style of M/s.Sri Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust as corpus

 donation. Therefore, the Assessing Officer after having held that the capitation

 fee received was treated as income not eligible for exemption under section 11 of the Act, determined the taxable income of the Assessee at Rs.9,90,50,000/- and the tax payable at Rs.4,13,59,162/- for the assessment year 2011-2012 by

 the assessment order dated 31.03.2014. Similarly, the assessing officer passed

 the assessment orders on 30.03.2015, 30.03.2016, 31.12.2016, determining the

 taxable income and tax payable by the assessee, in respect of the assessment
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 20/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 years 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15 as well. 9.1. The Assessee viz., M/s.MAC Public Charitable Trust / respondent in

 TCA Nos.62/2022 and 303/2021 relating to the assessment year 2011-12 and

 2014-15 respectively, is a trust registered under Section 12A(a) of the Act as

 per the proceedings of the Commissioner of Income Tax, Tamilnadu-III vide

 C.No.1146-III(136)/84 dated 19.12.1984. For the assessment year 2011-12,

 they had filed their return of income on 26.09.2011 admitting 'nil' income. On

 scrutiny of same, notice under section 143(2) was issued on 03.08.2012, to

 which, the Assessee produced the documents called for. On verification of the

 records, it was noticed that the Assessee trust received a sum of Rs.4 crores as

 donations and paid a sum of Rs.3.98 crores as donations. The donations were

 received from M/s. United Educational Foundation (Rs.3.60 crores), M/s. MAC Charities (Rs.20 lakhs) and M/s. First Leasing Company of India Ltd

 and the same was paid to M/s.Sri Venkateswara Educational & Health Trust

 (Rs.3.60 crores) and other donations to the tune of Rs.0.38 lakhs. 9.2. After a detailed analysis, the assessing officer issued a show cause

 notice on 07.03.2014 calling upon the assessee to explain as to why the

 exemption under section 11 should not be denied for the income of Rs.3.60

 crores as the said receipt was not a voluntary contribution. On receipt of the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 21/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 same, the assessee replied on 24.03.2014 stating inter alia that the donations

 are voluntary only and the trust has not in any way secured admissions in Sri

 Venkateswara College of Engineering for the donors, who happen to be trusts

 only. Being dissatisfied with the reply filed by the assessee, the assessing

 officer concluded that the assessee trust was used as tool to transfer the fund

 from one trust to other trust under the guise of charity. While so, the assessing

 officer held that the amount of non-voluntary contribution i.e., capitation fees

 received of Rs.3,60,00,000/- was treated as income not eligible for exemption

 under section 11 and taxed protectively in the hands of the assessee at the rate

 applicable to an Association of Persons (AOP) and accordingly, passed the

 assessment order on 31.03.2014, determining the taxable income at

 Rs.3,60,00,000/- and tax payable at Rs.1,65,27.680/- for the assessment year

 2011-12. On the same reasoning, by order dated 27.12.2016, the Assessing

 Officer completed the assessment for the assessment year 2014-2015,

 determining the taxable income at Rs.8,00,00,000/- by treating the same as not

 eligible for exemption under section 11 of the Act. It was further observed that

 penalty proceedings against the Assessee under Section 27 (1) (c) of the Act

 will be initiated separately. 10.1. The Assessee viz., M/s. United Educational Foundation / respondent in
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 22/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 TCA Nos.59/2022, 305 and 306/2021 relating to the AY 2011-12, 2013-14 and

 2014-15 respectively, is a registered trust under Section 12AA of the Act, vide

 order passed in DIT (E) No.2(1359)/08-09 dated 24.09.2009. For the

 Assessment year 2011-2012, the Assessee filed its return of income on

 30.09.2011 admitting 'Nil' income. After processing the same, the assessing

 officer issued a notice dated 03.08.2012 under Section 143 (2) of the Act. In

 response, the representative of the Assessee appeared before the assessing

 officer and produced documentary evidence, including a letter dated

 12.08.2013 furnishing the details of the donors, their address, Pan Number and

 the manner in which the donation was paid viz., demand draft/pay order. On

 perusal of the same, the assessing officer noticed that the Assessee received a

 sum of Rs.22,03,77,500/- as donation from 1206 persons on various dates and

 claimed exemption under section 11 of the Act. It was also noticed that out of

 the sum of Rs.22,03,77,500/- the Assessee had donated Rs.18,74,67,000/- as

 donations to various trusts/institutions. The assessing officer, in order to verify

 the claim for exemption, had undertaken an elaborate exercise, issued

 summons to all the donors in exercise of his powers conferred under Section

 131 (1) (b) of the Act and recorded their statements without any coercion,

 force or threat. Some of the donors had feigned ignorance as they were not

 aware of the Assessee trust or its activity and without any knowledge, their
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 23/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 names were misused and their signatures were obtained as donor by their

 relatives/friends. During such enquiry, it also came to light that Sri

 Venkateswara Engineering College, Sriperumbudur, Kancheepuram District

 had demanded payments for allotment of seats in their college and the

 payments were made towards capitation fee. The Assessing Officer also, in the

 order of assessment dated 31.03.2014, referred to the statement obtained from

 some of the donors and concluded that the persons who wanted to get

 admission for their wards in Sri Venkateswara Engineering College were

 forced to pay capitation fee, but the capitation fee was recorded in the books of

 the Assessee trust as "voluntary contribution". The assessing officer also

 concluded that the said contribution in the hands of Assessee has been routed

 through various other trusts viz., MAC Charities and MAC Public Charitable

 Trust on various dates and ultimately it reached Sri Venkateswara College of

 Engineering. 10.2. On the basis of the above materials collected during the assessment

 proceedings, the assessing officer issued a show cause notice dated 07.03.2014

 calling upon the Assessee to explain as to why exemption under section 11 should not be denied for the income of Rs.22,03,77,500/-. An explanation was

 offered by the Assessee on 18.03.2014 stating that the donations received from

 the donors are voluntary. It was also stated that the Assessee trust is an
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 24/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 independent trust and it is in no way connected with Sri Venkateswara

 Engineering College. It was also stated that donations to other trust is proper

 application of funds and there is nothing wrong in the donations given to MAC

 Charities etc. The Assessing Officer, after considering the explanation of the

 Assessee, was of the opinion that the amount of non-voluntary contribution

 i.e., capitation fee received at Rs.22,03,77,500/- has to be treated as income

 and the Assessee was not eligible for exemption under section 11 of the Act,

 for the assessment year 2011-12. 10.3. On the above said reasoning, the assessing officer passed the orders of

 assessment dated 31.03.2016 and 31.12.2016, relating to the assessment years

 2013-14 and 2014-15, determining the tax payable by the assessee at

 Rs.16,22,60,670/- and Rs.16,33,99,970/-, respectively. 11.1. The Assessee namely M/s. MAC Charities / respondent in TCA Nos. 63/2022, 309 and 310 of 2022 relating to the AY 2011-12, 2013-14 and 2014-

 15 respectively, is a trust registered under Section 12A(a) of the Act vide the

 order in DIT(E) No.2(102) /90-91 dated 15.11.2000. For the assessment year

 2011-12, they had filed their return on 26.09.2011 admitting 'nil' income. The

 Assessee's case was taken up for scrutiny and notice under section 143(2) was

 issued on 03.08.2012. In response, the Assessee's representative appeared and
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 25/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 produced the documents called for. On verification of the return of income, it

 was noticed that the Assessee trust had received Rs.12.75 crores as donations

 and paid Rs.67.38 crores as donations. The donations were received from M/s. United Educational Foundation (Rs.10.65 crores) and M/s. MAC Medical

 Foundation (Rs.2.00 crores). Out of the said donations, an amount of Rs.5.00

 crores was paid to Sri Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust. 11.2. After a detailed analysis, the assessing officer was of the view that the

 assesssee acted as a fund transferor to transfer the capitation fee received for

 giving admission to the students who enrolled during the FY 2010-11 by

 receiving the money from M/s. United Educational Foundation and

 transferring them to Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering which is a unit

 of M/s.Sri Venkateswara Educational & Health Trust in the form of 'donations

 received' and 'donation paid'. Hence, the assessee was issued with a show

 cause notice dated 07.03.2014 calling upon them to explain as to why

 exemption under section 11 should not be denied for the income of Rs.10.65

 crores as the said receipt was not a voluntary contribution. In response, they

 submitted a reply dated 19.03.2014, stating inter alia that the donations were

 voluntary and the trust has not in any way secured admission in the said

 college for the donors, who happen to be trusts only. However, the assessing
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 26/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 officer, upon analysing the manner in which the funds were channelised and

 reached Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering, concluded that the amount

 received purported to be donation, was in fact capitation fee received from the

 students for accommodating them in the said college; the same was not a

 voluntary contribution and hence, the Assessee was ineligible for exemption

 under Section 11 of the Act. Accordingly, the assessing officer passed an order

 of assessment dated 31.03.2014 determining the taxable income at

 Rs.10,65,00,000/- and tax payable at Rs.4,45,51,040/- for the AY 2011-12. On

 the same reasoning, similar assessment orders were passed by the assessing

 officer determining the tax payable at Rs.14,53,56,240/- and Rs.7,76,87,580/- in respect of the assessment years 2013-14 and 2014-15 respectively. 12. Assailing the orders of assessment passed by the Assessing Officer for

 various assessment years, the Assessee Trusts filed statutory appeals before the

 Appellate Authority namely the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). Before the CIT(A), on behalf of the Assessees, it was contended that the

 donations were received voluntarily; and the Assessee Trusts were in no way

 connected with the securing admission of students in Sri Venkateswara

 College of Engineering for the children of the donors. In the records of the

 Assessee Trusts, they had shown these donations as income only and applied
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 27/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 the same for charitable purposes as per law. As a charitable institution, there is

 no prohibition under law to receive donation from another charitable

 institution. In this context, on behalf of the Assessees, reliance was placed on

 the decision of the Allahabad High Court in CIT v. J.K. Charitable Trust [(1992) 196 ITR 31] wherein it was observed that as a charitable institution,

 the Assessee can directly contribute to another charitable institution which

 advances similar cause. It was further observed that in the absence of any

 allegation of malafides, the amount contributed to other charitable institutions

 out of the income accumulated under sub-section (2), is outside the mischief of

 sub-section (3) of Section 11 . In other words, such contribution does not

 amount to application of the income for purposes other than charitable or

 religious. By placing reliance on the said decision of the Allahabad High

 Court, it was contended that when there was no allegation by any of the donors

 that the amount was made to be tendered involuntarily, the entire investigation

 conducted by the Assessing Officer and the consequential orders of assessment

 were liable to be set aside. 13. After hearing both sides and upon perusal of the available materials, the

 Appellate Authority viz., CIT(A) observed that the Assessee Trusts themselves

 are donors established for the purpose of carrying out charitable and religious
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 28/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 activities. They have donated their income to another trust and there is no bar

 or embargo in doing so. The Assessee Trusts had donated money not only to

 Sri Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust, but also to other Trusts. Such

 donations, other than corpus donations, shall, for the purposes of Section 11 of

 the Act, deemed to be income derived from the property held under the trust

 for carrying out charitable and religious activities. Therefore, it was concluded

 that the donations paid by the Assessee Trusts to other trusts are income in the

 hands of recipient trusts for the purpose of Section 11 (1) of the Act. Accordingly, by separate orders dated 01.08.2014 and 31.12.2018, the CIT(A)

 allowed the appeals preferred by the respondent trusts. The relevant portion of

 the order dated 01.08.2014 passed by the Appellate Authority in the appeal

 preferred by M/s. MAC Public Charitable Trust, relating to AY 2011-12, can

 be useful to be extracted hereunder: 14. Aggrieved by the orders so passed by the Appellate Authority dated

 01.08.2014 relating to the AY 2011-12, the Revenue preferred the appeals

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 31/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. It was contended on behalf of the

 Revenue before the Tribunal that the funds were mostly diverted to their

 connected/related charitable Trusts in order to secure admission for the

 relatives/wards of the donors in the educational institution run by M/s.Sri

 Venkateswara Educational & Health Trust. To buttress this submission, the

 Revenue placed reliance on the sworn statements recorded from various

 persons. 15. The Tribunal, by a common order dated 12.04.2017, rejected the

 contentions so made on the side of the Revenue by observing that the

 statements recorded from the donors revealed that they made the donations

 voluntarily to the charitable institutions. Further, the Assessing Officer did not

 examine the source of investment made by the donors. While so, it could be

 inferred that the Assessing Officer had coerced the individual donors and

 obtained the statements. The Tribunal also, was of the view that none of the

 donors or the parents/students studying in the educational institutions did make

 any complaint to any of the authorities complaining the so-called extortion of

 money in the form of donation for securing admission in the educational

 institutions run by M/s. Sri Venkateswara Educational & Health Trust. It was

 the further view of the Tribunal that there is no bar for the Assessee Trusts to
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 32/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 receive and/or accept voluntary donations from the donors or from the

 relatives/parents of the students studying in the educational institutions

 connected with the charitable trusts. In effect, the Tribunal opined that the

 Assessing Officer had not brought out credible materials to show that the

 Assessee Trusts had received donations as a condition precedent for allotment

 of seats to the student in M/s. Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering,

 Sriperumbudur. Accordingly, the Tribunal dismissed the appeals preferred by

 the Revenue. The relevant portion of the order dated 12.04.2017 passed by the

 Tribunal can profitably be extracted hereunder: The aforesaid order of the Tribunal dated 12.04.2017 is under challenge in

 TCA Nos.59, 60, 62 and 63 of 2022 at the instance of the Revenue. 16. In the mean while, challenging the orders dated 31.12.2018 passed by

 the CIT(A) relating to the AYs 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15, the Revenue

 filed appeals before the Tribunal. It was contended on behalf of the Revenue

 that the Appellate Authority erred in deleting the disallowance made by the

 Assessing Officer and accepted the claim of the Assessees towards receipt of

 the amount as voluntary donation. It was further contended that the donations

 were in fact collected by the Assessee Trusts towards capitation fee as a

 condition precedent for admitting the students in the Engineering College run

 by Sri Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 35/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch 17. However, the Tribunal, by a common order dated 13.11.2019, rejected

 all the appeals, by placing reliance on the earlier order dated 12.04.2017,

 mentioned supra, without examining the merits of the contentions raised by the

 Revenue. The relevant portion of the said order dated 13.11.2019 is quoted

 below for ready reference: Aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the Tribunal, the Revenue is before this

 court by filing TCA Nos.303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309 and 310 of 2021. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES

 18.1. Mr. J. Narayanasamy, learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for

 the appellant / Revenue, at the outset, submits that the Appellate Authority and

 the Tribunal have committed a grave error in not considering the fact that the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 36/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Assessee Trusts, in order to avoid legal consequence of receiving capitation

 fee, which is opposed to the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Educational

 Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of Capitation Fee), Act, 1992, have

 insisted the parents of the students to pay such fee to M/s. United Educational

 Foundation in the name of their relatives or friends and not in their name. This

 was amply proved by the Revenue by a detailed examination of the case and by

 recording the statement of individual donors as well as some parents. Adding

 further, the learned senior standing counsel submitted that the Appellate

 Authority as well as the Tribunal, did not take note of the nexus between

 M/s. United Educational Foundation, M/s. MAC Charities, M/s. MAC Public

 Charitable Trust and M/s. Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering in

 successfully channelising the donations received from one Trust to the other; the amount received in the form of donation was in fact towards capitation fee

 to procure seat for the student in the college; and therefore, it cannot be said

 that the amount received was a voluntary contribution. 18.2. The learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Revenue further submitted

 that the founder trustee of the Assessee trust namely MAC Public Charitable

 Trust Dr. A.C. Muthiah is also the trustee of M/s.United Educational

 Foundation, which gave donation to the Assessee trust; the said Dr. A.C.

 Muthiah is also the founder trustee of Sri Venkateswara Educational and
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 37/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Health Trust, which owns the College viz., Sri Venkateswara College of

 Engineering; and thus, the Assessee Trusts are having nexus with one another

 and the donations received by M/s. United Educational Foundation were

 systematically channelised so as to reach the college operating by Sri

 Venkateswara Educational and Health Trust as corpus donations. The

 Assessing Officer also, on appreciation of the evidence collected during the

 course of enquiry, has concluded that there was a clear nexus among the

 Assessee Trusts. However, the appellate authority as well as the Tribunal

 simply brushed aside the said fact and erroneously held that the assessees are

 eligible for exemption under section 11 of the Act. 18.3. In effect, it is the submission of the learned Senior Standing Counsel

 appearing for the revenue that the respondents /Assessees are part of a group

 trust. Their modus operandi is that students of the educational institution of

 Trust - A are asked to give donations to Trust - C. Thereafter, Trust - C

 transfers the donation amount received to Trust - B and from Trust - B to

 Trust - A. Such is the arrangement within the group trusts and they have

 common trustees. In order to prove this modus operandi resorted to by the

 Assessee-Trust, the Assessing Officer recorded statements from 1500 persons

 out of which around 50 percent of those who have given statement, conceded

 that the donation was a quid pro quo transaction for admission. However,
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 38/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 certain parents retracted their statements, which was mainly relied on by the

 Appellate Authority as well as the Tribunal to set aside the orders of

 assessment. Stating so, the learned Senior Standing Counsel submitted that the

 channelisation of the donations in such a way cannot be treated as voluntary

 donations. The respondents / Assessees also admitted that the donation

 received by one trust has been re-donated to the other Trust, which would

 amply fortify the stand of the Revenue that the transaction is ungenuine. Therefore, the orders of the Appellate Authorities granting exemption to the

 assessees by treating the donations so received as voluntary, will have to be set

 aside. 18.4. The learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Revenue invited the

 attention of this Court to the Orders passed by the Tribunal, wherein, it was

 observed that the Department had not checked the source of income of the

 donors, and contended that examination of source of income of the donors is

 not only unnecessary, but also unwarranted given the nature of enquiry

 conducted by the Assessing Officer. When the entire transaction has been

 made in a quid pro quo manner, which could be evident from the statements

 made by some of the parents of the students, it was a clear case of involuntary

 donation and therefore, the Assessing Officer was wholly justified in passing

 the orders of assessment. It is also submitted that the exemption granted to the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 39/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 respondents / trusts under Section 12(1) of the Act is to enable them to receive

 voluntary contribution; the donations and/or contributions received by the

 respondent trusts are proved to be involuntary; and hence, they are not entitled

 to the exemption any longer. 18.5. The learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Revenue further submitted

 that the capitation fee received was for allotment of seats by the Trust and

 hence, it cannot be said to be a voluntary contribution/donation to the trust. Such receipt of capitation fee cannot be passed on as a donation by one trust to

 another and claimed exemption thereof. The nature of money received by the

 respondent Trusts had lost their character of voluntary donation/contribution at

 the time of original receipt itself. Therefore, the manner in which the monies

 spent subsequently will not be construed as donation especially when the so- called money received have landed finally in the hands of the College or the

 trust running the college that allotted seats. 18.6. Referring to the provisions of Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions

 (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 , the learned Senior Standing Counsel

 appearing for the Revenue submitted that section 2 (a) defines "capitation fee",

 which means any amount, by whatever name called, paid or collected directly

 or indirectly in excess of the fee prescribed under Section 4 of the Act. According to the learned Senior Standing Counsel, as per the statements given
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 40/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 by the parents/relatives in this case, they had paid capitation fee over and

 above the prescribed fee for admission and the same is also punishable under

 the said Act. Taking note of the same, the Assessing Officer assessed the

 capitation fee received by the respondents-Assessees to tax. However, the

 Appellate Authority as well as the Tribunal overturned such decision and

 passed the orders impugned herein by observing that the assessing officer

 might have coerced the donors to obtain such statements to suit the revenue; the statements of the donors cannot be relied on as some of the donors have

 changed their version later. Such an observation made by the Tribunal,

 according to the learned Senior Standing Counsel, is in contravention to the

 decision of the Delhi High Court in Brij Basi Education and Welfare Society

 v. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax Central III, New Delhi [(2021)

 125 taxmann.com 95 (Delhi)], wherein in para No.15, it was held that in cases

 where the summoned parties go back on their statement, it is for the Assessee

 to prove their bonafides with corroborating evidence. If the Assessee failed,

 then the order of the assessing authorities, assessing the money, had to be

 confirmed. 18.7. The learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Revenue also submitted

 that the Tribunal had erroneously held that the State Government had not

 initiated any action against the Trusts and therefore, the Assessing Officer
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 41/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 cannot treat the amount received as capitation fee for denying exemption. In

 fact, the Tribunal did not consider that as per the provisions of the Act, the

 Assessing Officer is a statutory authority who can independently make his own

 decision upon scrutiny of the records and pass orders for disallowing the

 income. Hence, the Assessing Officer need not depend upon the State

 Government authorities to initiate action under the Tamil Nadu Educational

 Institutions (Prohibition and Capitation Fee) Act 1992. With these

 submissions, the learned Senior Standing Counsel prayed for allowing the Tax Case Appeals by setting aside the orders passed by the Appellate Authority as

 well as the Tribunal. 18.8. In support of his contentions, the learned Senior Standing Counsel

 appearing for the appellant placed reliance on the following decisions: (ii) In Modern Dental College and Research Centre and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others [(2016) 7 SCC 353], in para No.140, it

 was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as follows: (iii) In P.S. Govindasamy Naidu & Sons v. Assistant Commissioner

 of Income Tax [(2010) 324 ITR 44 (Madras)] the Division Bench of this

 Court held as follows: (iv) In Brij Basi Education and Welfare Society (supra), it was held

 by the Delhi High Court as follows: Thus, the learned senior standing counsel contended that both the CIT (A) and

 the Tribunal failed to appreciate the correct law and erred in deciding the

 dispute against the revenue and therefore, the orders passed by them are liable

 to be set aside. 19.1. Per contra, Mr. Haja Nazirudeen, learned senior counsel appearing for

 the respondents / Assessees would submit that the object of the trust is to run
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 45/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 educational institutions and other activities; and is to support other institutions

 by donating the donated money. There was no quid pro quo as contended by

 the learned counsel for the department. The trustees in the trusts do not get

 benefitted in any way at all. Thus, section 13 is not attracted in this case. Continuing further, the learned senior counsel submitted that the respondents /

 trusts have registration under sections 12A as well as 80 G of the Act and

 hence, the power to divert funds under section 12 exists. The application of the

 donated money is towards the object of the trust, more particularly, charitable

 purposes only. Therefore, the same becomes relevant in view of section

 13(1)(c) r/w section 13(3) . It is also submitted by the learned senior counsel

 that during the course of proceedings, no opportunity for cross examination of

 the witnesses was provided to the respondents / assessees. 19.2. In support of his submissions, the learned Senior counsel appearing for

 the respondents / Assessees relied on the following decisions: (ii) In Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City-VII v. Trustees

 of the Jadi Trust [1981 SCC Online Bombay 347 = (1982) 133 ITR 494] the

 Bombay High Court held as follows: (iii) In Commissioner of Income Tax v. A.M.M. Arunachalam https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 47/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Educational Society [1998 SCC Online Mad 1318 = (2000) 243 ITR 229]

 wherein, it was observed by this court as follows: (v) In Sanjeevamma Hanumanthe Gowda Charitable Trust vs. The

 Director of Income Tax (Exemptions) Ward-w [ILR 2006 Kar 4043], it was

 held by the Karnataka High Court held as follows: (vi) The Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s. HPS Social Welfare

 Foundation [(2010) 235 CTR 330 = (2010) 329 ITR 310] wherein it was

 observed by the Delhi High Court as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 50/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch 20. We have heard the learned Senior Standing Counsel for the appellant /

 revenue and the learned counsel for the respondents / Assessees and also

 perused the materials placed before us. DISCUSSION & FINDINGS 21. At the outset, pertinently, be it noted, an understanding of the facts at

 hand would reveal that the case of the respondents / Assessees is nothing more

 than a fig leaf to conceal the violation of the Tamil Nadu Educational

 Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 (hereinafter

 shortly referred to as “the Capitation Fee Act”). Therefore, before appreciating

 the rival contentions made by the parties, it is essential to delve into the legal

 provisions. Relevant provisions under the Income Tax Act , 1961 22. The following provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 , are relevant for

 the purpose of the present cases: clause (iiiae) or sub-clause (via) of clause (23C) of section 10 or by an
 electoral trust. Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-clause, "trust" includes any other
 legal obligation;]
 …………
 Earlier, prior to the Amendment Act, 1987 , sub-clause (iia) stood as
 follows: The provision was amendment by Amending Act, 1987 by omitting the
 words “not being contributions made with a specific direction that they
 shall form part of the corpus of the trust or institution” with effect from 1-4-
 1989. Subsequently the provision was amended and stands as above at the
 relevant point of time when the assessment orders were passed. Incomes not included in total income. 10. In computing the total income of a previous year of any person, any
 income falling within any of the following clauses shall not be included—

 (23C) any income received by any person on behalf of—
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 52/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 ……
 (iiiab) any university or other educational institution existing solely for
 educational purposes and not for purposes of profit, and which is wholly or
 substantially financed by the Government; or
 (iiiac) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of
 persons suffering from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception
 and treatment of persons during convalescence or of persons requiring
 medical attention or rehabilitation, existing solely for philanthropic
 purposes and not for purposes of profit, and which is wholly or
 substantially financed by the Government. [Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-clauses (iiiab) and (iiiac), any
 university or other educational institution, hospital or other institution
 referred therein, shall be considered as being substantially financed by the
 Government for any previous year, if the Government grant to such
 university or other educational institution, hospital or other institution
 exceeds such percentage of the total receipts including any voluntary
 contributions, as may be prescribed, of such university or other educational
 institution, hospital or other institution, as the case may be, during the
 relevant previous year; or
 (iiiad) any university or other educational institution existing solely for
 educational purposes and not for purposes of profit if the aggregate annual
 receipts of such university or educational institution do not exceed the
 amount of annual receipts as may be prescribed; or
 (iiiae) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of
 persons suffering from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception
 and treatment of persons during convalescence or of persons requiring
 medical attention or rehabilitation, existing solely for philanthropic
 purposes and not for purposes of profit, if the aggregate annual receipts of
 such hospital or institution do not exceed the amount of annual receipts as
 may be prescribed; or (iv) any other fund or institution established for charitable purposes which
 may be approved by the prescribed authority, having regard to the objects
 of the fund or institution and its importance throughout India or throughout
 any State or States; or (v) any trust (including any other legal obligation) or institution wholly for
 public religious purposes or wholly for public religious and charitable
 purposes, which may be approved by the prescribed authority, having
 regard to the manner in which the affairs of the trust or institution are
 administered and supervised for ensuring that the income accruing thereto
 is properly applied for the objects thereof; (vi) any university or other educational institution existing solely for
 educational purposes and not for purposes of profit, other than those
 mentioned in sub-clause (iiiab) or sub-clause (iiiad) and which may be
 approved by the prescribed authority; or
 (via) any hospital or other institution for the reception and treatment of
 persons suffering from illness or mental defectiveness or for the reception
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 53/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 and treatment of persons during convalescence or of persons requiring
 medical attention or rehabilitation, existing solely for philanthropic
 purposes and not for purposes of profit, other than those mentioned in sub-
 clause (iiiac) or sub-clause (iiiae) and which may be approved by the
 prescribed authority : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 56/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 clause (vi) or any hospital or other medical institution referred to in sub-
 clause (via), is approved by the prescribed authority and subsequently that
 Government or the prescribed authority is satisfied that— (i) such fund or institution or trust or any university or other educational
 institution or any hospital or other medical institution has not—
 (A) applied its income in accordance with the provisions contained in
 clause (a) of the third proviso; or
 (B) invested or deposited its funds in accordance with the provisions
 contained in clause (b) of the third proviso; or (ii) the activities of such fund or institution or trust or any university or
 other educational institution or any hospital or other medical institution—
 (A) are not genuine; or
 (B) are not being carried out in accordance with all or any of the
 conditions subject to which it was notified or approved,
 it may, at any time after giving a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
 against the proposed action to the concerned fund or institution or trust or
 any university or other educational institution or any hospital or other
 medical institution, rescind the notification or, by order, withdraw the
 approval, as the case may be, and forward a copy of the order rescinding
 the notification or withdrawing the approval to such fund or institution or
 trust or any university or other educational institution or any hospital or
 other medical institution and to the Assessing Officer: Explanation.—In this clause, where any income is required to be applied or
 accumulated, then, for such purpose the income shall be determined without
 any deduction or allowance by way of depreciation or otherwise in respect
 of any asset, acquisition of which has been claimed as an application of
 income under this clause in the same or any other previous year;] Section 11 of the Income Tax Act,1961 now under consideration prior to
 Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, stood as follows: 11. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 60 to 63 , the following income
 shall not be included in the total income of the previous year of the person
 in receipt of the income—
 [(a) income derived from property held under trust wholly for charitable or
 religious purposes, to the extent to which such income is applied to such
 purposes in India; and, where any such income is accumulated or set apart
 for application to such purposes in India, to the extent to which the income
 so accumulated or set apart is not in excess of twenty-five per cent of the
 income from such property; (b) income derived from property held under trust in part only for such
 purposes, the trust having been created before the commencement of this
 Act, to the extent to which such income is applied to such purposes in India;
 and, where any such income is finally set apart for application to such
 purposes in India, to the extent to which the income so set apart is not in
 excess of twenty-five per cent of the income from such property;] (c) income [derived] from property held under trust— (i) created on or after the 1st day of April, 1952, for a charitable purpose
 which tends to promote international welfare in which India is interested, to
 the extern to which such income is applied to such purposes outside India,
 and (ii) for charitable or religious purposes, created before the 1st day of April,
 1952, to the extent to which such income is applied to such purposes outside
 India: clause (a) or, as the case may be, sub-clause (b), of the said clause, then,
 such income shall be deemed to be the income of the person in receipt
 thereof— (a) in the case referred to in sub-clause (i) of the said clause, of the
 previous year immediately following the previous year in which the income
 was received, or (b) in the case referred to in sub-clause (ii) of the said clause, of the
 previous year immediately following the previous year in which the income
 was derived.]
 [(2) [Where seventy-five per cent of the income referred to in clause (a) or
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) read with the Explanation to that sub-section is
 not applied, or is not deemed to have been applied, to charitable or
 religious purposes in India during the previous year but is accumulated or
 set apart, either in whole or in part, for application to such purposes in
 India, such income so accumulated or set apart shall not be included in the
 total income of the previous year of the person in receipt of the income,
 provided the following conditions are complied with, namely:—] (a) such person specifies, by notice in writing given to the
 [Assessing] Officer in the prescribed manner, the purpose for which the
 income is being accumulated or set apart and the period for which the
 income is to be accumulated or set apart, which shall in no case exceed ten
 years; [(b) the money so accumulated or set apart is invested or deposited in the
 forms or modes specified in sub-section (5)].]
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 60/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 [(3) Any income referred to in sub-section (2) which— (a) is applied to purposes other than charitable or religious purposes as
 aforesaid or ceases to be accumulated or set apart for application thereto,
 or
 [(b) ceases to remain invested or deposited in any of the forms or modes
 specified in sub-section (5) , or] (c) is not utilised for the purpose for which it is so accumulated or set apart
 during the period referred to in clause (a.) of that sub-section or in the year
 immediately following the expiry thereof,
 shall be deemed to be the income of such person of the previous year in
 which it is so applied or ceases to be so accumulated or set apart or ceases
 to remain so invested or deposited or, as the case may be, of the previous
 year immediately following the expiry of the period aforesaid.]
 [(3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), where due to
 circumstances beyond the control of the person in receipt of the income, any
 income invested or deposited in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (2) cannot be applied for the purpose for which it was
 accumulated or set apart, the [Assessing] Officer may, on an application
 made to him in this behalf, allow such person to apply such income for such
 other charitable or religious purpose in India as is specified in the
 application by such person and as is in conformity with the objects of the
 trust; and thereupon the provisions of sub-section (3) shall apply as if the
 purpose specified by such person in the application under this sub-section
 were a purpose specified in the notice given to the [Assessing] Officer
 under clause (a) of sub-section (2).]
 (4) For the purposes of this section "property held under trust" includes a
 business undertaking so held, and where a claim is made that the income of
 any such undertaking shall not be included in the total income of the
 persons in receipt thereof, the [Assessing] Officer shall have power to
 determine the income of such undertaking in accordance with the
 provisions of this Act relating to assessment; and where any income so
 determined is in excess of the income as shown in the accounts of the
 undertaking, such excess shall be deemed to be applied to purposes other
 than charitable or religious purposes [***]. [(4A) Sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section
 (3A) shall not apply in relation to any income, being profits and gains of
 business, unless— (a) the business is carried on by a trust wholly for public religious purposes
 and the business consists of printing and publication of books or
 publication of books or is of a kind notified by the Central Government in
 this behalf in the Official Gazette; or (b) the business is carried on by an institution wholly for charitable
 purposes and the work in connection with the business is mainly carried on
 by the beneficiaries of the institution, and separate books of account are
 maintained by the trust or institution in respect of such business.]
 [(5) The forms and modes of investing or depositing the money referred to
 in clause (b) of sub-section (2) shall be the following, namely:—
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 61/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch (i) investment in savings certificates as defined in clause (c) of section 2 of
 the Government Savings Certificates Act, 1959 (46 of 1959), and any other
 securities or certificates issued by the Central Government under the Small
 Savings Schemes of that Government; (ii) deposit in any account with the Post Office Savings Bank; (iii) deposit in any account with a scheduled bank or a co-operative society
 engaged in carrying on the business of banking (including a co-operative
 land mortgage bank or a co-operative land development bank),
 Explanation : In this clause, "scheduled bank" means the State Bank of
 India constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), a
 subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks)
 Act, 1959 (38 of 1959), a corresponding new bank constituted under section
 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings)
 Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), or under section 3 of the Banking Companies
 (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980), or any
 other bank being a bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
 Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); (iv) investment in units of the Unit Trust of India established under the Unit
 Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963); (v) investment in any security for money created and issued by the Central
 Government or a State Government; (vi) investment in debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company or
 corporation both the principal whereof and the interest whereon are fully
 and unconditionally guaranteed by the Central Government or by a State
 Government; (vii) investment or deposit in any Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (viii) deposits with or investment in any bonds issued by a financial
 corporation which is engaged in providing long-term finance for industrial
 development in India and which is approved by the Central Government for
 the purposes of clause (viii) of sub-section (1) of section 36 ; (ix) deposits with or investment in any bonds issued by a public company
 formed and registered in India with the main object of carrying on the
 business of providing long-term finance for construction or purchase of
 houses in India for residential purposes and which is approved by the
 Central Government for the purposes of clause (viii) of sub-section (1)
 of section 36 ; (x) investment in immovable property. Explanation : "Immovable property" does not include any machinery or
 plant (other than machinery or plant installed in a building for the
 convenient occupation of the building)even though attached to, or
 permanently fastened to, anything attached to the earth;]
 [(xi) deposits with the Industrial Development Bank of India established
 under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964).]] Section 11 of the Act was omitted by Amendment Act, 1987 with effect
 from
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 1-04-1989. By Amendment Act, 1989 , the provision was 62/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 reintroduced with effect from 1-4-89 with certain modifications and the
 amended provision stood as under: (b) income derived from property held under trust in part only for such
 purposes, the trust having been created before the commencement of this
 Act, to the extent to which such income is applied to such purposes in India;
 and, where any such income is finally set apart for application to such
 purposes in India, to the extent to which the income so set apart is not in
 excess of twenty-five per cent of the income from such property;] (c) income [derived] from property held under trust— (i) created on or after the 1st day of April, 1952, for a charitable purpose
 which tends to promote international welfare in which India is interested, to
 the extent to which such income is applied to such purposes outside India,
 and (ii) for charitable or religious purposes, created before the 1st day of April,
 1952, to the extent to which such income is applied to such purposes outside
 India: clause (i), during the previous year in which the income is received or
 during the previous year immediately following, as the case may be, and, in
 the case referred to in sub-clause (ii), during the previous year immediately
 folio-wing the previous year in which the income was derived]
 [(1A) For the purposes of sub-section (1),— (a) where a capital asset, being property held under trust wholly for
 charitable or religious purposes, is transferred and the whole or any part of
 the net consideration is utilised for acquiring another capital asset to be so
 held then, the capital gain arising from the transfer shall be deemed to have
 been applied to charitable or religious purposes to the extent specified
 hereunder, namely:— (i) where the whole of the net consideration is utilised in acquiring the new
 capital asset, the whole of such capital gain; (ii) where only a part of the net consideration is utilised for acquiring the
 new capital asset, so much of such capital gain as is equal to the amount, if
 any, by which the amount so utilised exceeds the cost of the transferred
 asset; (b) where a capital asset, being property held under trust in part only for
 such purposes, is transferred and the whole or any part of the net
 consideration is utilised for acquiring another capital asset to be so held,
 then, the appropriate fraction of the capital gain arising from the transfer
 shall be deemed to have been applied to charitable or religious purposes to
 the extent specified hereunder, namely:— (i) where the whole of the net consideration is utilised in acquiring the new
 capital asset, the whole of the appropriate fraction of such capital gain; (ii) in. any other case, so much of the appropriate fraction of the capital
 gain as is equal to the amount, if any, by which the appropriate fraction of
 the amount utilised for acquiring the new asset exceeds the appropriate
 fraction of the cost of the transferred asset. Explanation: In this sub-section,— (i) "appropriate fraction" means the fraction which represents the extent to
 which the income derived from the capital asset transferred was
 immediately before such transfer applicable to charitable or religious
 purposes; https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 64/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch (ii) "cost of the transferred asset" means the aggregate of the cost of
 acquisition (as ascertained for the purposes of sections 48 and 49 ) of the
 capital asset which is the subject of the transfer and the cost of any
 improvement thereto within the meaning assigned to that expression in sub-
 clause (b) of clause (1) of section 55 ; (iii) "net consideration" means the full value of the consideration received
 or accruing as a result of the transfer of the capital asset as reduced by any
 expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with such
 transfer.]
 [(1B) Where any income in respect of which an option is exercised under
 clause (2) of the Explanation to sub-section (1) is not applied to charitable
 or religious purposes in India during the period referred to in sub-
 clause (a) or, as the case may be, sub-clause (b), of the said clause, then,
 such income shall be deemed to be the income of the person in receipt
 thereof— (a) in the case referred to in sub-clause (i) of the said clause, of the
 previous year immediately following the previous year in which the income
 was received or (b) in the case referred to in sub-clause (ii) of the said clause, of the
 previous year immediately following the previous year in which the income
 was derived]
 [(2) [ Where seventy-five per cent of the income referred to in clause (a) or
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) read with the Explanation to that sub-section is
 not applied, or is not deemed to have been applied, to charitable or
 religious purposes in India during the previous year but is accumulated or
 set apart, either in whole or in part, for application to such purposes in
 India, such income so accumulated or set apart shall not be included in the
 total income of the previous year of the person in receipt of the income,
 provided the following conditions are complied with, namely:—;]. (a) such person specifies, by notice in writing given to the
 [Assessing] Officer in the prescribed manner, the purpose for which the
 income is being accumulated or set apart and the period for which the
 income is to be accumulated or set apart, which shall in no case exceed ten
 years; [(b) the money so accumulated or set apart is invested or deposited in the
 forms or modes specified in sub-section (5)].]
 [(3) Any income referred to in sub-section (2) which— (a) is applied to purposes other than charitable or religious purposes as
 aforesaid or ceases to be accumulated or set apart for application thereto,
 or
 [(b) ceases to remain invested or deposited in any of the forms or modes
 specified in sub-section (5), or] (c) is not utilised for the purpose for which it is so accumulated or set apart
 during the period referred to in clause (a) of that sub-section or in the year
 immediately following the expiry thereof,
 shall be deemed to be the income of such person of the previous year in
 which it is so applied or ceases to be so accumulated or set apart or ceases
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 65/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 to remain so invested or deposited or, as the case may be, of the previous
 year immediately following the expiry of the period aforesaid]
 [(3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), where due to
 circumstances beyond the control of the person in receipt of the income, any
 income invested or deposited in accordance with the provisions of
 clause (b) of sub-section (2) cannot be applied for the purpose for which it
 was accumulated or set apart, the [Assessing]Officer may, on an
 application made to him in this behalf, allow such person to apply such
 income for such other charitable or religious purpose in India as is
 specified in the application by such person and as is in conformity with the
 objects of the trust; and thereupon the provisions of sub-section (3) shall
 apply as if the purpose specified by such person in the application under
 this sub-section were a purpose specified in the notice given to the
 [Assessing] Officer under clause (a) of sub-section (2),]
 (4) For the purposes of this section" property held under trust" includes a
 business undertaking so held and where a claim is made that the income of
 any such undertaking shall not be included in the total income of the
 persons in receipt thereof, the 92[Assessing] Officer shall have power to
 determine the income of such undertaking in accordance with the
 provisions of this Act relating to assessment; and where any income so
 determined is in excess of the income as shown in the accounts of the
 undertaking such excess shall be deemed to be applied to purposes other
 than charitable or religious purposes[* * *]. [(4A). Sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-
 section (3A) shall not apply in relation to any income, being profits and
 gains of business, unless— (a) the business is carried on by a trust wholly for public religious purposes
 and the business consists of printing and publication of books or
 publication of books or is of a kind notified by the Central Government in
 this behalf in the Official Gazette; or (b) the business is carried on by an institution wholly for charitable
 purposes and the work in connection with the business is mainly carried on
 by the beneficiaries of the institution,
 and separate books of account are maintained by the trust or institution in
 respect of such business. ]
 [(5) The forms and modes of investing or depositing the money referred to
 in clause (b) of sub-section (2) shall be the following namely:— (i) investment in savings certificates as defined in clause (c) of section 2 of
 the Government Savings Certificates Act, 1959 (46 of 1959), and any other
 securities or certificates issued by the Central Government under the Small
 Savings Schemes of that Government; (ii) deposit in any account with the Post Office Savings Bank; (iii) deposit in any account with a scheduled bank or a co-operative society
 engaged in carrying on the business of banking (including a cooperative
 land mortgage bank or a co-operative land development bank).
 Explanation: In this clause," scheduled bank" means the State Bank of India
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 66/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), a
 subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary
 Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959), a corresponding new bank constituted
 under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
 Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), or under section 3 of the Banking
 Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of
 1980), or any other bank being a bank included in the Second Schedule to
 the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); (iv) investment in units of the Unit Trust of India established under the Unit
 Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963); (v) investment in any security for money created and issued by the Central
 Government or a State Government; (vi) investment in debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company or
 corporation both the principal whereof and the interest whereon ate fully
 and unconditionally guaranteed by the Central Government or by a State
 Government; (vii) investment or deposit in any [public sector company]; (viii) deposits with or investment in any bonds issued by a financial
 corporation which is engaged in providing long-term finance for industrial
 development in India and which is approved by the Central Government for
 the purposes of clause (viii) of sub-section (1) of section 36 ; (ix) deposits with or investment in any bonds issued by a public company
 formed and registered in India with the main object of carrying on the
 business of providing long-term finance for construction or purchase of
 houses in India for residential purposes and which is approved by the
 Central Government for the purposes of clause (viii) of sub-section (1) of section 36 ; (x) investment in immovable property. Explanation: "Immovable property" does not include any machinery or
 plant (other than machinery or plant installed in a building for the
 convenient occupation of the building) even though attached to, or
 permanently fastened to, anything attached to the earth;]
 [(xi) deposits with the Industrial Development Bank of India established
 under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964);]
 [(xii) any other form or mode of investment or deposit as may be
 prescribed ]” 23. It is pertinent to mention here that since the old provision of Section

 2 (24) (iia) was being widely used for tax avoidance by giving donations to a

 trust in the form of corpus donations so as to keep this amount out of the

 regulatory provisions of sections 11 to 13 , by the Amending Act, 1987 it was
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 67/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 omitted to secure that all donations received by a charitable or religious trust

 or institution, including corpus donations and it was sought to be treated as

 income of such trust or institution. However, exemption to the corpus

 donations was granted under the provisions of the new section 80F , introduced

 by the Amending Act, 1987, subject to the condition that such corpus

 donations, if spent for charitable purposes or invested in specified assets

 mentioned in section 80F . 24. At this juncture it is necessary to quote the budget speech of the then

 Finance Minister, for the year 1984-1985, which reads as follows: 25. The major changes that were introduced by the Amending Act, 1989 are

 that Sections 11 , 12 , 12A and 13 which were omitted by Direct Tax Laws

 (Amendment) Act, 1987, were reintroduced by Direct Tax Laws (Amendment)

 Act, 1989 with effect from 01-04-1989. Section 11(d) was inserted with effect

 from 1-4-1989 and sub-clause (xii) was inserted to sub-clause (5) of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 68/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch Section 11 . Section 80F which was introduced by the Amending Act 1987, was

 omitted. Any voluntary contribution with a specific direction that it shall form

 part of the corpus, was to be excluded from the income of the Trust under Section 11 (1) (d) . Subsequent Amendments to Section 11 26. By Finance (No 2) Act, 1991, Section 4A was substituted for the

 existing section with effect from 01-04-1992, which reads as under: 27. By 36th Finance Act, 2000 , the following words were substituted in Section 11 (5) (viii) and in section 11 (5) (ix) with the then existing provision: 28. By Finance Act, 2000 , the following provisions were inserted: 29. By Finance Act, 2001 , Second Proviso to sub- section 2 of Section 11 was inserted with effect from 1-4-2002. Provided further that in respect of any income accumulated or set apart on
 or after the 1st day of April, 2001, the provisions of this sub-section shall
 have effect as if for the words "ten years" at both the places where they
 occur, the words "five years" had been substituted. 30. By Finance Act, 2002 , the following modifications were made to Section 11 : section, which is not applied, but is accumulated or set apart, to any trust or
 institution registered under Section 12-AA or to any fund or institution or trust
 or any university or other educational institution or any hospital or other
 medical institution referred to in sub-clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-
 clause (vi) or sub-clause (vi-a) of clause (23-C) of Section 10 , shall not be
 treated as application of income for charitable or religious purposes, either
 during the period of accumulation or thereafter. ; (c) in sub-section (3), (i) after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: AA or to any fund or institution or trust or any university or other educational
 institution or any hospital or other medical institution referred to in sub-
 clause (iv) or sub-clause (v) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (vi-a) of clause
 (23-C) of Section 10 , ; (ii) for the words set apart or ceases to remain so invested or deposited or ,
 the words set apart or ceases to remain so invested or deposited or credited or
 paid or shall be substituted; (d) in sub-section (3-A), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: 31. By Finance Act, 2003 , the following second proviso was inserted to sub- section 3A of Section 11 . Provided further that in case the trust or institution, which has invested or
 deposited its income in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of sub-
 section (2), is dissolved, the Assessing Officer may allow application of such
 income for the purposes referred to in clause (d) of sub-section (3) in the year
 in which such trust or institution was dissolved. 32. By Finance (No.2) Act 2014, with effect from 01.04.2015, the following

 sub-sections were inserted to Section 11 . “6) In this section where any income is required to be applied or accumulated
 or set apart for application, then, for such purposes the income shall be
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 71/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 determined without any deduction or allowance by way of depreciation or
 otherwise in respect of any asset, acquisition of which has been claimed as an
 application of income under this section in the same or any other previous
 year. (7) Where a trust or an institution has been granted registration under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12AA or has obtained registration at any time
 under section 12A [as it stood before its amendment by the Finance (No. 2)
 Act, 1996 (33 of 1996)] and the said registration is in force for any previous
 year, then, nothing contained in section 10 [other than clause (1) and clause
 (23C) thereof] shall operate to exclude any income derived from the property
 held under trust from the total income of the person in receipt thereof for that
 previous year.” 33. By Finance Act 20/2015, the following amendments were made to Section 11 : 34. Section 12 deals with the income of trusts or institutions from

 contributions and the same is reproduced below: (2) The value of any services, being medical or educational services, made
 available by any charitable or religious trust running a hospital or medical
 institution or an educational institution, to any person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (cc) or clause (d) of sub-section (3)
 of section 13 , shall be deemed to be income of such trust or institution derived
 from property held under trust wholly for charitable or religious purposes
 during the previous year in which such services are so provided and shall be
 chargeable to income-tax notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (1)
 of section 11 . Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression "value"
 shall be the value of any benefit or facility granted or provided free of cost or
 at concessional rate to any person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or
 clause (c) or clause (cc) or clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section 13 .
 (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 11 , any amount of donation
 received by the trust or institution in terms of clause (d) of sub-section (2)
 of section 80G in respect of which accounts of income and expenditure have
 not been rendered to the authority prescribed under clause (v) of sub-section
 (5C) of that section, in the manner specified in that clause, or] which has
 been utilised for purposes other than providing relief to the victims of
 earthquake in Gujarat or which remains unutilised in terms of sub-section
 (5C) of section 80G and not transferred to the Prime Minister's National
 Relief Fund on or before the 31st day of March, 2004 shall be deemed to be
 the income of the previous year and shall accordingly be charged to tax." 35. The following provisions explain the conditions for applicability of sections 11 and 12 and the procedure for registration: section (2) of section 288 and the person in receipt of the income furnishes
 along with the return of income for the relevant assessment year the report
 of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and verified by such
 accountant and setting forth such particulars as may be prescribed. (c) [***]
 (2) Where an application has been made on or after the 1st day of June,
 2007, the provisions of sections 11 and 12 shall apply in relation to the
 income of such trust or institution from the assessment year immediately
 following the financial year in which such application is made: section (1) shall be passed before the expiry of six months from the end of
 the month in which the application was received under clause (a) or clause
 (aa) of sub-section (1)of section 12A . (3) Where a trust or an institution has been granted registration under
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) or has obtained registration at any time
 under section 12A as it stood before its amendment by the Finance (No. 2)
 Act, 1996 (33 of 1996) and subsequently the Principal Commissioner or
 Commissioner is satisfied that the activities of such trust or institution are
 not genuine or are not being carried out in accordance with the objects of
 the trust or institution, as the case may be, he shall pass an order in writing
 cancelling the registration of such trust or institution: The words “Principal Commissioner or” were inserted with retrospective
 effect from 1-4-2013 by Finance (No 2) Act, 2014. 36. The following provisions, which deal with the cases where section 11 is

 not applicable, are relevant: Explanation.—Where the trust or institution has any other income in
 addition to profits and gains of business, the provisions of clause (iii) of
 this proviso shall not apply unless the trust or institution maintains
 separate books of account in respect of such business.
 Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-clause (ii) of clause (c), in
 determining whether any part of the income or any property of any trust or
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 77/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 institution is during the previous year used or applied, directly or
 indirectly, for the benefit of any person referred to in sub-section (3), in so
 far as such use or application relates to any period before the 1st day of
 July, 1972, no regard shall be had to the amendments made to this section
 by section 7 [other than sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) thereof] of the Finance
 Act, 1972 . (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of clause (c) and
 clause (d) of sub-section (1), the income or the property of the trust or
 institution or any part of such income or property shall, for the purposes of
 that clause, be deemed to have been used or applied for the benefit of a
 person referred to in sub-section (3),— (a) if any part of the income or property of the trust or institution is, or
 continues to be, lent to any person referred to in sub-section (3) for any
 period during the previous year without either adequate security or
 adequate interest or both; (b) if any land, building or other property of the trust or institution is, or
 continues to be, made available for the use of any person referred to in sub-
 section (3), for any period during the previous year without charging
 adequate rent or other compensation; (c) if any amount is paid by way of salary, allowance or otherwise during
 the previous year to any person referred to in sub-section (3) out of the
 resources of the trust or institution for services rendered by that person to
 such trust or institution and the amount so paid is in excess of what may be
 reasonably paid for such services; (d) if the services of the trust or institution are made available to any
 person referred to in sub-section (3) during the previous year without
 adequate remuneration or other compensation; (e) if any share, security or other property is purchased by or on behalf of
 the trust or institution from any person referred to in sub-section (3) during
 the previous year for consideration which is more than adequate; (f) if any share, security or other property is sold by or on behalf of the
 trust or institution to any person referred to in sub-section (3) during the
 previous year for consideration which is less than adequate; (g) if any income or property of the trust or institution is diverted during
 the previous year in favour of any person referred to in sub-section (3): section, in a case where the aggregate of the funds of the trust or institution
 invested in a concern in which any person referred to in sub-section (3) has
 a substantial interest, does not exceed five per cent of the capital of that
 concern, the exemption under section 11 or section 12 shall not be denied
 in relation to any income other than the income arising to the trust or the
 institution from such investment, by reason only that the funds of the trust
 or the institution have been invested in a concern in which such person has
 a substantial interest. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (d) of sub-section (1),
 where any assets (being debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company
 or corporation) are acquired by the trust or institution after the 28th day of
 February, 1983 but before the 25th day of July, 1991, the exemption
 under section 11 or section 12 shall not be denied in relation to any income
 other than the income arising to the trust or the institution from such
 assets, by reason only that the funds of the trust or the institution have been
 invested in such assets if such funds do not continue to remain so invested
 in such assets after the 31st day of March, 1992. (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section
 (2), but without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (2)
 of section 12 , in the case of a charitable or religious trust running an
 educational institution or a medical institution or a hospital, the exemption
 under section 11 or section 12 shall not be denied in relation to any
 income, other than the income referred to in sub-section (2) of section 12 ,
 by reason only that such trust has provided educational or medical
 facilities to persons referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or
 clause (cc) or clause (d) of sub-section (3). (7) Nothing contained in section 11 or section 12 shall operate so as to
 exclude from the total income of the previous year of the person in receipt
 thereof, any anonymous donation referred to in section 115BBC on which
 tax is payable in accordance with the provisions of that section.
 (8) Nothing contained in section 11 or section 12 shall operate so as to
 exclude any income from the total income of the previous year of the person
 in receipt thereof if the provisions of the first proviso* to clause (15)
 of section 2 become applicable in the case of such person in the said
 previous year. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 79/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch 37. The following sub-section (9) shall be inserted after sub-section (8) of section 13 by the Finance Act, 2015 , w.e.f. 01.04.2016 : section (1) of section 139 for furnishing the return of income for the previous
 year; or (ii) the return of income for the previous year is not furnished by such
 person on or before the due date specified under sub-section (1) of section
 139 for furnishing the return of income for the said previous year.
 Explanation 1.—For the purposes of sections 11 , 12 , 12A and this section,
 "trust" includes any other legal obligation and for the purposes of this
 section "relative", in relation to an individual, means— (i) spouse of the individual; (ii) brother or sister of the individual; (iii) brother or sister of the spouse of the individual; (iv) any lineal ascendant or descendant of the individual; (v) any lineal ascendant or descendant of the spouse of the individual; (vi) spouse of a person referred to in sub-clause (ii), sub-clause (iii), sub-
 clause (iv) or sub-clause (v); (vii) any lineal descendant of a brother or sister of either the individual or of
 the spouse of the individual. Explanation 2.—A trust or institution created or established for the benefit
 of Scheduled Castes, backward classes, Scheduled Tribes or women and
 children shall not be deemed to be a trust or institution created or
 established for the benefit of a religious community or caste within the
 meaning of clause (b) of sub-section (1). Explanation 3.—For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed
 to have a substantial interest in a concern,— (i) in a case where the concern is a company, if its shares (not being shares
 entitled to a fixed rate of dividend whether with or without a further right to
 participate in profits) carrying not less than twenty per cent of the voting
 power are, at any time during the previous year, owned beneficially by such
 person or partly by such person and partly by one or more of the other
 persons referred to in sub-section (3); (ii) in the case of any other concern, if such person is entitled, or such
 person and one or more of the other persons referred to in sub-section (3)
 are entitled in the aggregate, at any time during the previous year, to not
 less than twenty per cent of the profits of such concern." 38. Upon a conjoint reading of the above legal provisions, it is manifest that
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 80/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 charitable purpose, as contemplated under the Act though would include

 education, would not include the advancement of any other object of general

 public utility, if the object involved is the carrying on of any activity in the

 nature of trade, commerce or business, or any activity of rendering any service

 in relation to any trade, commerce or business, for a cess or fee or any other

 consideration, irrespective of the nature of use or application, or retention, of

 the income from such activity. Thus, it is clear that Section 10 (23C) and Section 11 deal with income that are not to be treated as part of total income. Section 10 (23C) exempts the income received by the institution existing

 solely for educational purposes provided that it is registered and applies its

 income, wholely and exclusively the objects for which it is established. However, incidental profit if any received in the course of its educational

 activities shall not deprive the institution of its exemption. The provisions are

 explicit as the primary condition is that an institution must solely exist for

 educational purposes. Whereas, under Section 11 , though the object is same, it

 deals with income from property held by charitable or religious trusts. Section

 11 of the Act states that income from property held for religious or charitable

 purposes shall not be included in the total income of the previous year. Section

 12 deals with income of trusts or institutions from contributions. Any

 voluntary contribution received by such trust created wholly for charitable or
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 81/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 religious purposes or by an institution established for such purpose, with such

 contribution not forming part of the corpus, shall be treated as income derived

 from the property, thereby Section 11 (1) (a) and (b) would apply to such

 contributions. Further, as per section 12 (2) , the value of any services to any

 person referred in Section 13 (3) shall not be eligible for deduction. Section

 12A deals with making application for registration of the trust/association so

 that the said institution will have the benefit of exemption under section 11 and section 12 of the Act. It is mandatory for every institution claiming exemption

 to register themselves. The procedures for registration and cancellation are

 contemplated in Section 12AA . As per section 12AA(1)(b) of the Income-tax

 Act, 1961, the commissioner before granting the registration is to be satisfied

 about the objects of the trust and the genuineness of its activities. However, the

 commissioner is vested with the power under 12AA (3) to cancel the

 registration if the activities are not genuine. The objects are irrelevant, when

 the activities are not genuine. The application of the funds is also subject to

 scrutiny by the commissioner. Further, similar to Section 10 (23C) , the

 requirement under Section 12 is that the trust must be “wholly” for charitable

 purpose. If it turns out that the activities are not genuine or not being carried

 out in accordance with the objects of the trust, not only is the registration liable

 to be cancelled, the claim of exemption under Section 11 is also liable to be
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 82/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 rejected. The word “genuine” must be read as in compliance with all the laws

 of the land. If the institution or trust is used as a cloak to violate law,

 irrespective of whether any benefit is achieved or not, the benefit of

 registration cannot be permitted to accrue to the assessee. Section 12AA (3) is

 an independent provision as the right to cancel the registration is not restricted

 just towards the fulfilment or not of the objects of the trust or association. 39. The object and the relevant provisions of the Tamil Nadu Educational

 Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 , for

 effective adjudication of the present cases, are extracted below: ….. 3. Prohibition of collection of capitation fee. - Notwithstanding anything
 contained in any law for the time being in force, or in any judgment, decree
 or order of any Court or other authority, no capitation fee shall be
 collected,- (a) by any person who is in charge of, or is responsible for, the
 management of any educational institution; or (b) by any other person either for himself or on behalf of any such
 educational institution or on behalf of any such management of any
 educational institution. 4. Regulation of fee, etc. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
 other law for the time being in force, the Government may, by notification,
 regulate the tuition fee or any other fee or deposit that may be received or
 collected by any educational institution or class or classes of such
 educational institutions in respect of any or all class or classes of students: The provisions are plenary to cover not only the individuals associated with

 the institutions directly, but also other institutions and any person acting on

 behalf of the management of any other institution. Such exhaustive provisions

 are to enable the State to eradicate cartels and routing of funds. 41. Juxtaposing the provisions of both the Acts viz., Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of

 Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 , with each other, it is explicit that collection of any

 amount in excess of what has been prescribed as fee or in the nature of

 donation or voluntary contribution either directly or indirectly to the

 institution or through some other person or institution or trust, as quid pro quo

 for the seat in any educational institution, would render the activity of both the

 entities ungenuine. Such actions would render the object of “charity” a farce

 and the transaction will have to be treated as a commercial activity, depriving

 the assessees of the benefits of Sections 11 and 12 of the Act. 42. At this juncture, it is necessary to understand the general concept of

 “education” as viewed by the Supreme Court as well as in the context of the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 85/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Capitation Fee Act. EDUCATION- NOT A TRADE, BUSINESS OR COMMERCE 43. In the Constitution Bench judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Unnikrishnan, J.P. and Ors. vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors . [(04.02.1993 - SC) : (1993) 1 SCC 645], it was held that: 44. In Christian Medical College, Vellore Association v. Union of India

 and Ors. [(29.04.2020 - SC) : (2020) 8 SCC 705], the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 observed as follows: (h)….. 38. In Unni Krishnan case, MANU/SC/0333/1993 : (1993) 1 SCC 645, this
 Court also rejected the argument that the said activity could be classified as
 a "profession". However, the right of professional institutions to establish
 and manage educational institutions was finally regarded as an "occupation"
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 87/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 befitting the recognition of this right as a fundamental right Under Article
 19(1)(g) in T.M.A. Pai Foundation, MANU/SC/0905/2002 : (2002) 8 SCC
 481, in the following words: (SCC p. 535, para 25) 25. The establishment and running of an educational institution where
 a large number of persons are employed as teachers or administrative
 staff, and an activity is carried on that results in the imparting of
 knowledge to the students, must necessarily be regarded as an
 occupation, even if there is no element of profit generation. It is
 difficult to comprehend that education, per se, will not fall under any
 of the four expressions in Article 19(1)(g). "Occupation" would be an
 activity of a person undertaken as a means of livelihood or a mission
 in life. The above quoted observations in Sodan Singh case,
 MANU/SC/0521/1989 : (1989) 4 SCC 155, correctly interpret the
 expression "occupation" in Article 19(1)(g). 40. It becomes necessary to point out that while treating the managing of
 educational institution as an "occupation", the Court was categorical that
 this activity could not be treated as "business" or "profession". This right to
 carry on the occupation that education is, the same is not put on a par with
 other occupations or business activities or even other professions. It is a
 category apart which was carved out by this Court in T.M.A. Pai
 Foundation, MANU/SC/0905/2002 : (2002) 8 SCC 481. There was a specific
 purpose for not doing so. Education is treated as a noble "occupation" on
 "no profit no loss" basis. Thus, those who establish and are managing the
 educational institutions are not expected to indulge in profiteering or
 commercialising this noble activity. Keeping this objective in mind, the Court
 did not give complete freedom to the educational institutions in respect of
 right to admit the students and also with regard to fixation of fee. As far as
 admission of students is concerned, the Court was categorical that such
 admissions have to be on the basis of merit when it comes to higher
 education, particularly in professional institutions.
 ………” 45. Once again in the recent orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rashtreeya Sikshana Samithi Trust and Ors. v. Committee for Fixation of

 Fee Structure of Private Professional Colleges and Ors. [(19.05.2022 - SC) : 7. While clarifying the judgment of this Court in TMA Pai Foundation1, this
 Court in Islamic Academy of Education and Anr. v. State of Karnataka and
 Ors. MANU/SC/0580/2003 : (2003) 6 SCC 697 observed that once fee is fixed
 by the Committee, the institute cannot charge either directly or indirectly any
 other amount over and above the amount fixed as fee. If any other amount is
 charged, under any other head or guise, e.g. donations, the same would
 amount to charging of capitation fee. The Governments/appropriate
 authorities should consider framing appropriate Regulations, if not already
 framed, whereunder if it is found that an institution is charging capitation
 fees or profiteering, that institution can be appropriately penalised and also
 face the prospect of losing its recognition/affiliation. In the said judgment ,
 this Court took note of the fact that the States of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra,
 Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have enacted statutes prohibiting collection
 of capitation fee and regulating admission process in professional colleges.
 In terms of the provisions of the said Acts, the management of the
 professional colleges were prohibited from charging any amount other than
 fee determined under the said Acts. This Court further observed that the
 expression "capitation fee" does not have any fixed meaning. It referred to the
 definition of capitation fee in the Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions
 (Prohibition of Collection of Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 , which is as follows: 8. Lastly, in P.A. Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra MANU/SC/0482/2005 : 9. In spite of the State Governments enacting legislations prohibiting the
 practice of charging capitation fee and making it an offence, the stark reality
 which cannot be ignored is that capitation fee being charged for admission to
 medical colleges is prevalent even today. For the present, by this Order, we
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 89/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 are only concerned with the suggestions that are made by the learned Amicus
 Curiae for curbing the menace of capitation fee, after taking note of the
 suggestions and comments of learned Counsel appearing for the States,
 medical colleges and National Medical Council for the issuance of
 appropriate directions. 10. Pursuant to orders dated 6.08.2014 and 20.04.2022, Shri Hargurvarinder
 S. Jaggi, Officer on Special Duty in the Supreme Court of India, has been
 nominated for rendering assistance to learned Amicus Curiae in the matter of
 setting up a web portal which would serve as a platform for the aggrieved
 persons to provide information relating to any demand of capitation fee made
 by the private medical colleges. Though, we are informed that no complaint
 has been received by any State Government regarding charging of capitation
 fee, it was suggested that a web portal under the aegis of Supreme Court
 would provide confidence in the public to furnish any information relating to
 capitation fee being charged by private medical colleges. The Ld. Amicus
 Curiae further suggested that all candidates taking the National Eligibility-
 cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate, postgraduate and super
 speciality courses should be informed about the web-portal wherein
 complaints with respect to charging of capitation fee can be registered. In
 addition, a pamphlet should also be issued to the students and parents
 regarding the existence of website at the time of counselling. The Chief
 Secretaries of the State Governments and Union Territories should ensure
 that the details of the website are published in English as well as vernacular
 newspapers to spread awareness amongst the public at large. This website
 could be maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the
 Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. 11. The other suggestions relate to the steps to be taken by the concerned
 authorities to prevent the practice of charging capitation fee. One important
 suggestion in this regard is the completion of all rounds of counselling,
 including stray vacancies round, at least two weeks before the last date for
 completion of the admission process as per the Schedule fixed by the National
 Medical Council and Dental Council of India. It was brought to our notice
 that names of ten students for each seat which remains to be filled in stray
 vacancies round are sent by the competent authority from which the private
 medical colleges are given liberty to make admissions on the basis of merit.
 For the purpose of ensuring transparency in the process, the names of
 students which are recommended by the authority for admission in the stray
 round vacancy have to be made public along with the rank allotted to them in
 the NEET exam. It was suggested that the admissions should be made strictly
 on the basis of merit and in the event of any admission to the contrary,
 suitable action shall be taken against the private medical colleges. We are in
 agreement with the suggestions made by the learned Amicus Curiae. 12. Another point made by the learned Counsel relates to fee that is charged
 by the private medical colleges in the guise of additional charges such as
 establishment fee, room rents/hostel fee, mess fee, bus fee, library fee,
 laboratory fee, internet charges, special posting fee etc. It was suggested that
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 90/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 the Fee Fixation Committees in the State should fix a price band for different
 expenses and the colleges should be directed not to charge any amount from
 students in addition to the prices that are fixed by the Fee Fixation
 Committee. We see force in the submission made by the learned Counsel on
 this behalf. The Fee Fixation Committees have to fix the fee without leaving
 any scope for the managements of private medical colleges to charge any
 additional fee which is not part of fee fixed by the Committees. We make it
 clear that the Fee Fixation Committees have to take into account all
 components of fee proposed to be charged by the Management while
 determining the fee to be paid by the students. For this purpose, assistance
 can be sought from the report of Hon'ble Mr. Justice B.N. Srikrishna dated
 26.08.2021 for reviewing the existing fee structure and for fixing the norms
 and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees in which the Committee has
 prescribed the parameters and guidelines for the types of fees to be charged
 by the institutions recognized by the AICTE. The report also prescribes the
 minimum and maximum fees which includes the tuition fee, development fee,
 examination fee and other fees. 13. It was submitted that the managements of private medical colleges should
 be directed not to receive fee through cash payment and to prohibit certain
 private medical colleges from insisting on payment of fee for entire course in
 advance. The latter issue of payment of fee for the entire course in advance is
 the subject matter of another SLP bearing SLP (C) No. 11296 of 2021 titled
 JNU Institute for Medical Sciences and Research Centre and Ors. v. Deepesh
 Singh Beniwal and Ors. , in which this Court on 23.09.2021 had directed the
 Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India to conduct a
 meeting with all the stakeholders to find a solution to the issue. For the
 former issue, we are in agreement with the suggestion that the managements
 of private medical colleges should not accept any fees in cash in order to
 avoid the charging of capitation fee. It has also been suggested that the
 Director General of Health Services and other concerned authorities of the
 State Governments should ensure that the All-India Quota and State Quota
 round of counselling is completed strictly in accordance with the time
 Schedule that is fixed. The regulatory authorities should be directed to
 consider fixing a Schedule by which the last round of counselling, that is
 stray round, is completed at least two weeks before the last date of closure of
 admissions. 14. The conspectus of the above discussion would lead us to the following
 conclusions: The third set of objects, in clause 2 of the deed does not appear to be stated
 there merely as a means of serving the general purpose of “education”
 separable from these objects in clause (c). On the other hand, there are
 strong grounds for believing, in the light of other provisions and profit-
 making activities and background of the trust, that education was mentioned
 as the object in the deed only as a convenient cloak to conceal and serve the
 real and dominant purpose of clause 2(c) which was to run a profitable
 newspaper and publishing business without paying the tax on it. Just as mere
 making of profit as a consequence or incident of altruistic activity is not
 decisive of the real purpose or object of the activity, so also the carrying on
 of a business for profit does not cease to be so merely because losses are
 actually incurred in certain years or because those who carry it or call it
 “education” It would be difficult to find any commercial activity which makes
 profits always or which expressly gives out that its existence depends upon
 profit-making although, in practice, and, ultimately, its continuance may
 depend on profit-making. A newly started business may, initially, have to run
 at a loss; but, at a later stage, it may earn magnificent profits. Therefore, the
 test of the real character or purpose of an activity cannot be whether its
 continuance is made to depend upon profits resulting from it or not. Such a
 test would be artificial and specious. I do not think that the qualification
 introduced by Section 2(15) of the Act of 1961 was intended to compel courts
 to look for the conditions on which continuance of activities of public utility is
 made to depend. If profit-making results from them and these profits can be
 utilised for non-charitable purposes the trust which makes this possible
 would not be exempt from paying income tax.”
 “45. In the trust deed before us, as we have already indicated, the trustee had
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 94/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 not only wide powers of utilisation of trust [ Trustees of the Tribune Press,
 Lahore v. CIT , (1939) 7 ITR 415 (PC) : 66 IA 241] : funds for purposes of the
 trust but could divert its assets as well as any of the funds of the trust to other
 institutions whose objects are “similar to the objects” of the trust and of
 “carrying out the objects and purposes of this trust either fully or partially”. The whole deed appears to me to be cleverly drafted so as to make the
 purpose of clause 2(c) resemble the one which was held to be protected from
 income tax in the Tribune case. Indeed, the very language used by the Privy
 Council in the Tribune case, for describing the objects of the trust in that
 case , seems to have been kept in view by the draftsman of the trust deed
 before us. And, we find that the power of diverting the assets and income of
 the trust, although couched in language which seems designed to conceal
 their real effect, is decisive on the question whether the trust is either wholly
 or predominantly for a charitable purpose or not. The trustee is given the
 power of deciding what purpose is allied to or like an object covered by the
 trust and how it is to be served by a diversion of trust properties and funds. If
 the trustee is given the power to determine the proportion of such diversion,
 as he is given here, the trust could not be said to be wholly charitable. He
 could divert so much as to make the charitable part or aspect, if any, purely
 illusory. Indeed, this was the law even before the qualifying words introduced
 by the 1961 Act. [See: East India Industries (Madras) Pvt. Ltd. v.CIT,
 Madras [(1967) 65 ITR 611 : (1967) 3 SCR 356 : AIR 1967 SC 1554] ; CIT,
 Madras v. Andhra Chamber of Commerce ; Md. Ibrahim Raza v. CIT,
 Nagpur [1930 LR 57 IA 260 : AIR 1930 PC 226 : 125 IC 879] . Such a
 “trust” would be of doubtful validity, but I refrain from further comment or
 any pronouncement upon the validity of such a trust as that was neither a
 question referred to the High Court in this case nor argued anywhere. 46.The amendment of the 1961 Act considered by us compels closer scrutiny
 of deeds of ostensibly charitable trusts with a view to discovering their real
 purposes by analysing the effects of their terms and what they permit. It
 narrows the scope of exemption from income tax granted at least under the
 last and widest category of charitable trusts mentioned in Section 2(15) of the
 Act as was held in CIT, v. Indian Chamber of Commerce [(1971) 81 ITR 147
 (Cal)] …” 47. In Commissioner of Income tax ( Exemptions) Kolkatta v. Batanagar

 Educational and Research Trust [LL 2021 SC 337], the Hon’ble Apex Court,

 while restoring an order of cancellation of the registration under Section 12AA of the Act, held as follows: 48. The Hon’ble Supreme Court had heavily deprecated the practice of

 collecting capitation fee from students in the case of Islamic Academy of

 Education (supra) in the following terms: 49. Even in terms of the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in

 Safdarjung Enclave Educational Society v. MCD [AIR 1992 SC 1456], any

 donation made in order to gain advantage or benefit cannot be called as

 voluntary contribution. The relevant passage of the same is usefully extracted
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 96/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 below: 50. It is therefore beyond the pale of any doubt that education can never be a

 commercial activity or a trade or business and those in the field of education

 will have to constantly and consistently abide by this guiding principle. However, the undeniable reality staring at our face is the collection of

 capitation fee as a condition precedent for admission into educational

 institutions. The present appeals raise the twin issues of the blatant violation of

 the Capitation Fee Act and then drawing a premium on their own illegal act by

 seeking exemption under Sections 11 , 12AA and 80G of the Act. 51. The appellate authority and the Tribunal have failed to consider the

 provisions of the Capitation Fee Act and have given perverse findings. Under

 section 2(a) of the Capitation Fee Act, "capitation fee" means any amount, by

 whatever name called, paid or collected directly or indirectly in excess of the

 fee prescribed under section 4 . The Act was enacted with its avowed object of

 prohibiting any fee paid in excess of the fee as regulated under Section 4 of the

 Act. The source of the excess payment has been consciously not mentioned. Thus, technicalities such as parents of the students admitted in the Assessee
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 97/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 institutions not paying the fee directly but through relatives and friends, can be

 of no consequence to help the assesses wriggle out of their acts. The appellate

 authority curiously has rendered a finding that there is no violation of any law

 and the Tribunal also failed to look into this aspect. 52. Having said about the source of the capitation fee called donations, the

 next question would be about the identity of the sister Trusts of the assesees in

 order to determine the real beneficiaries, and whether they are entitled to

 exemption under the Act. This Court will necessarily have to lift the veil to

 answer the same. The sister Trusts in whose favour donations have been made

 in close proximity to the admissions made in respect of the students, are run by

 common controlling trustees. This factor and the systematic and repeated

 modus operandi of the Trusts in transferring the funds from one to another are

 rather too ambiguous to be seen as an act that cannot be treated as barred in

 law or an act that does not attract the rigour of the Capitation Fee Act. In other

 words, it can be even said that what the educational institutions were doing

 directly prior to the coming into force of the Capitation Fee Act, is now being

 done in a manner as to doubly benefit them by not only indulging in such

 statutory offences but also seeking the benefit of tax exemptions by adopting

 the modus operandi as stated above and elaborated by the counsel for Revenue. The insolent acts of the managements, despite the laws and dictums of the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 98/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Apex Court on the nature of education as a noble occupation and on consistent

 deprecation against Capitation Fee in any form, has been incessant throughout. LIFTING THE CORPORATE VEIL 53. In this regard, useful reference is made to the following judgments on

 the doctrine of ‘lifting the corporate veil’. (i) In Balwant Rai Saluja & Ors. v. Air India Ltd. & Ors. [(2013) 15

 SCC 85], it was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as follows: The aim of the legislation is to do justice to all the parties. The horizon of the
 doctrine of lifting of corporate veil is expanding. Here, indubitably, we are of
 the opinion that it is correct that Renusagar was brought into existence by
 Hindalco in order to fulfil the condition of industrial licence of Hindalco
 through production of Aluminium. It is also manifest from the facts that the
 model of the setting up of power station through the agency of Renusagar
 was adopted by Hindalco to avoid complications in case of takeover of the
 power station by the State or the Electricity Board. As the facts make it
 abundantly clear that all the steps for establishing and expanding the power
 station were taken by Hindalco, Renusagar is wholly owned subsidiary of
 Hindalco and is completely controlled by Hindalco. Even the day-to-day
 affairs of Renusagar are controlled by Hindalco. Renusagar has at no point
 of time indicated any independent volition. Whenever felt necessary, the State
 or the Board have themselves lifted the corporate veil and have treated
 Renusagar and Hindalco as one concern and the generation in Renusagar as
 the own source of generation of Hindalco. In the impugned order the profits
 of Renusagar have been treated as the profits of Hindalco.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 100/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 XXX 68. The veil on corporate personality even though not lifted sometimes, is
 becoming more and more transparent in modern company jurisprudence. The
 ghost of Salomon case still visits frequently the hounds of Company Law but
 the veil has been pierced in many cases. Some of these have been noted by
 Justice P.B. Mukharji in the New Jurisprudence. 69. The above said judgment is followed by this Court in D.D.A. v. Skipper
 Construction Co. (supra). The relevant paragraphs read as under: The learned Master of Rolls observed that "this group is virtually the same as
 a partnership in which all the three companies are partners". He called it a
 case of "three in one" - and, alternatively, as "one in three". 28. The concept of corporate entity was evolved to encourage and promote
 trade and commerce but not to commit illegalities or to defraud people.
 Where, therefore, the corporate character is employed for the purpose of
 committing illegality or for defrauding others, the court would ignore the
 corporate character and will look at the reality behind the corporate veil so
 as to enable it to pass appropriate orders to do justice between the parties
 concerned. The fact that Tejwant Singh and members of his family have
 created several corporate bodies does not prevent this Court from treating all
 of them as one entity belonging to and controlled by Tejwant Singh and
 family if it is found that these corporate bodies are merely cloaks behind
 which lurks Tejwant Singh and/or members of his family and that the device
 of incorporation was really a ploy adopted for committing illegalities and/or
 to defraud people.”
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 101/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 The concept of resulting trust and equity….”
 (Emphasis laid by the Court) 70. In Kapila Hingorani v. State of Bihar (supra), this Court held as under: v. Union of India, State of U.P. v. Renusagar Power Co. , Hussainbhai v.
 Alath Factory Thezhilali Union and Secy., H.S.E.B. v. Suresh .)”
 (Emphasis laid by the Court) (ii) In State of Rajasthan & Ors. v. Gotan Lime Stone Khanji Udyog

 Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. [(2016) 4 SCC 469], it was held by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court that: The aim of the legislation is to do justice to all the parties. The horizon of the
 doctrine of lifting of corporate veil is expanding.... 67. In the aforesaid view of the matter we are of the opinion that the
 corporate veil should be lifted and Hindalco and Renusagar be treated as
 one concern and Renusagar's power plant must be treated as the own source
 of generation of Hindalco and should be liable to duty on that basis. In the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 102/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 premises the consumption of such energy by Hindalco will fall Under Section
 3(1)(c) of the Act. The learned Additional Advocate-General for the State
 relied on several decisions, some of which have been noted. 68. The veil on corporate personality even though not lifted sometimes, is
 becoming more and more transparent in modern company jurisprudence. The
 ghost of Salomon case (1897 AC 22) still visits frequently the hounds of
 Company Law but the veil has been pierced in many cases. Some of these
 have been noted by Justice P.B. Mukharji in the New Jurisprudence (Tagore
 Law Lectures, P. 183). 25. In Delhi Development Authority v. Skiper Construction Company (P)
 Ltd MANU/SC/0497/1996 : (1996) 4 SCC 622, it was observed: 26. It is thus clear that the doctrine of lifting the veil can be invoked if the
 public interest so requires or if there is allegation of violation of law by using
 the device of a corporate entity. In the present case, the corporate entity has
 been used to conceal the real transaction of transfer of mining lease to a
 third party for consideration without statutory consent by terming it as two
 separate transactions -the first of transforming a partnership into a company
 and the second of sale of entire shareholding to another company. The real
 transaction is sale of mining lease which is not legally permitted. Thus, the
 doctrine of lifting the veil has to be applied to give effect to law which is
 sought to be circumvented.” (iii) In K.T. Doctor v. Commissioner of Income-Tax [1980 SCC

 OnLine Guj 139 : (1980) 124 ITR 501], an argument was raised that the

 doctrine of lifting the corporate veil is not applicable to trusts and also found

 favour with the Gujarat High Court. On appeal, the Hon’ble Supreme Court

 [230 ITR 744] dismissed the appeal of the revenue with the following reasons : Therefore, what we gather from the Assessment Order and on perusal of the
 above finding that the retraction was at the stage when the assessment
 proceedings were being finalized i.e. almost after a gap of more than an
 year. Such a so-called retraction in our view is no retraction in law and is
 simply a self-serving statement without any material. It was further held in Shri Roshan Lal Sancheti case (supra) as follows: Commissioner of Income-Tax, held as under:- O. Abdul Razak in para nos.8, 9 and 10 of its decision, held as under: Section (4) of Section 132 empowers the authorised officer during the course
 of the search and seizure to examine on oath any person who is found to be in
 possession or control of any books of account, documents, money or valuable
 articles or things etc. and record a statement made by such person which can
 be used in evidence in any proceedings under the Income Tax Act . The
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 110/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 explanation appended to Clause (4) also makes it clear that such examination
 can be in respect of any matters relevant for the purpose of any investigation
 and need not be confined to matters pertaining to the material found as a
 result of the search. A plain reading of Section 132(4) would clearly show that
 what was intended by empowering an officer conducting the search to take a
 statement on oath was to record evidence as contemplated in any adjudication
 especially since Section 131 confers on all officers empowered therein with
 the same powers as vested in a court under the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 for the purpose of the Income Tax Act . 10. A Division Bench of this Court in C.I.T. v. Hotel Meriya , (2011) 332 ITR
 537 considered the scope of a statement recorded under Section 132(4) and
 found that such statement recorded by the officer as well as the documents
 seized would come within the purview of evidence under Section 158(BB) of
 the Income-tax Act read with Section 3 of the Evidence Act and Section 131 of
 the Income Tax Act. Based on the above finding, it was also held that such
 evidence would be admissible for the purpose of block assessments too. The
 explanation to Section 132(4) of the Income Tax Act was also noticed by the
 Division Bench to further emphasise that the evidence so collected would be
 relevant in all purposes connected with any proceedings of the Income Tax
 Act .” 60. The Allahabad High Court in Dr. S.C. Gupta v. Commissioner of

 Income-Tax , in para 7 of its judgment, held as under: 61. All the aforementioned judgments were considered by Rajasthan High

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 111/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 Court in M/s. Bannalal Jat Constructions Pvt. Ltd. wherein also, the assessee

 retracted from his statement initially given under Section 132(4) of the Act on

 10.10.12014 followed by confirmation statement under Section 131 on

 04.12.2014 and made the following observations: The onus falls on the person who had earlier admitted to prove it wrong. Therefore, the statements could form the basis of assessment. 63. The statements given to the Assessing officer under Section 132 (4) have

 legal force. Unless the retractions are made within a short span of time,

 supported by affidavit swearing that the contents are incorrect and it was

 obtained under force, coercion and by lodging a complaint with higher

 officials, the same cannot be treated as retracted. This position laid down in catena of decisions by the various High Courts in CIT vs. Lekh Raj Dhunna [344 ITR 352 (P&H)], Bachittar Singh v. CIT [328 ITR 400 (P&H)],

 Rameshchandra & Co. v. CIT [168 ITR 375 (Bom. )], Dr. S.C. Gupta v. CIT ,

 [248 ITR 782 (All. )], CIT v. Hotel Meriya [332 ITR 537 (Kerala)], CIT v. O.

 Abdul Razak [350 ITR 71 (Kerala)]. 64. The reasoning adopted by the Tribunal that the Assessing Officer might

 have coerced to obtain the sworn statements from the donors in the manner

 convenient to the Revenue so as to drop further proceedings against the donors

 for examining their source of income with respect to the amount of donations

 made, is based on surmises and conjectures. The further reasoning that the

 donors or the parents/students studying in the educational institutions had not

 complained to any authorities regarding extortion by way of donations for
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 113/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 securing admission in the educational institutions managed by M/s. Sri

 Venkateswara Educational & Health Trust, is naive and cannot be accepted in

 the background of the menace of capitation staring at society starkly in the

 face. The Tribunal went further to hold that in the case of Assessee trusts,

 nothing was brought before it to point out that the law enforcing authorities of

 the State Government or the Central Government have initiated any coercive

 action against any of these Assessees for violating any provisions of the

 relevant Act. Here, it is to be noted that the very modus operandi adopted by

 the educational institutions is not in the form of direct coercion, but in the

 manner of admitting students on the clear understanding that such seats are

 offered in return for donations, which are nothing but capitation fee. The fact

 that a long-winding and indirect route has been adopted for capitation fee to

 reach the institution cannot change the character of the payment from an illegal

 capitation fee to a voluntary contribution/donation. There is preponderance of

 evidence that the contributions are non-voluntary considering the multitude of

 facts, such as, the detailed sworn statements of the persons, who had made the

 contributions, being the relatives/friends of the parents of the students, who

 were given seats in the Assessee educational institution, the nexus between the

 other Assessee institution, which collected and passed on the contribution

 though not an educational institution by itself, having common trustees being
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 114/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 well-knit, as can be seen from the facts. That apart, the fact that no action has

 been initiated by the State cannot be a reason to allow the exemption under the

 provisions of the Act or absolve the liability of the assessees, that too after the

 device to route the capitation fee was discovered. Further, it is also settled law

 that illegality cannot be perpetuated. Similarly, any decision even in the

 assessees' own case cannot have any bearing on the adjudication of the issues

 before us, because each assessment is independent and has to rest on its own

 facts. As such, when the contributions cannot be treated as voluntary, the

 further question of their application to charitable purposes or otherwise, need

 not be gone into, meaning thereby that the assesses are not entitled to the

 benefits of Sections 11 and 12 of the Act. MEANING OF “VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION” 65. Reference may also be had to cases where the term “voluntary

 contributions” have been expounded for the purposes of Section 12 of the Act. In CIT v. Madhya Predate Anaj Tilhan Vyapari Mahasangh , [(1988) 171

 ITR 677], the High Court of Madhya Pradesh interpreted the expression

 “voluntary contribution” under section 12 of the Act as “The contributions, in

 order to be voluntary, had to be made willingly and without compulsion and

 the money was to be gifted or given gratuitously without consideration and

 these tests were satisfied on the facts of the present case.” In Russel v. Vestry
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 115/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 of St. Giles [3 E & B 416], Lord Campbell observed that “voluntary

 contributions” here do not mean annual subscriptions (or entrance fees) paid

 for value received or expected to be received by the party paying, but means a

 gift made from disinterested motives for benefit of others. In Society of

 Writers to the Signet v. IRC, [1886] 2 TC 257 (C Sess), the court held that the

 entrance fees and subscriptions paid by entrants to a society or institution as a

 condition precedent to their membership and as the price of admission to the

 privileges and benefits of the society or institution are given under a contract

 and are not voluntary. These observations were considered and approved by

 the Bombay High Court in Trustees of Shri Kot Hindu Stree Mandal v. Commissioner of Income Tax, [1993 SCC Online Bom. 619]. Thus, it is clear

 that in law, unless a contribution is made gratuitously and without

 consideration, it cannot be treated as “voluntary contributions” for the purpose

 of exemption of tax under Sections 11 and 12 of the Act. Applying the same to

 the facts of the present case, this court is of the opinion that the findings of the

 first Appellate Authority and the Tribunal that the assessees more particularly,

 the educational institutions are entitled to collect donations and as long as the

 donations are applied as per the objects, they are to be treated as voluntary

 contributions and hence, the claim of exemption under Section 11 cannot be

 denied, are unacceptable as the same are completely against the provisions of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 116/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 the Capitation Fee Act and the object of granting exemption under the Income

 Tax Act . In the present batch of cases, the assessing officer has clearly

 established the fact that “capitation fee” has infact been collected. While so,

 such illegality cannot be ignored. 66. In this context, it will be useful to refer to the following judgments of

 the Kerala High Court: For all these reasons, we do not find any merit in this appeal.”
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 117/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch (ii)In Dawn educational Charitable Trust v. CIT, Kochi [2014 SCC

 OnLine Ker 2988 : (2015) 370 ITR 724], it was held as follows: The above judgment of the Kerala High Court was confirmed by the Apex

 Court in CC No. 16157/2014 on 13.10.2014. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 118/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch 67. Insofar as the assessing officer, not enquiring about the source of the

 donors, it is an undisputed fact that the sums have been paid by the parents or

 acquaintances to the institutions/trusts for securing the seat. Such persons are

 the source for the assessees. As rightly contended by the learned Senior

 Standing Counsel for the Revenue, it is not necessary for the assessing officer

 to go into the source of the source to tax the assessees under assessment and

 the same cannot be a reason to allow the deduction, which the assessees are not

 otherwise entitled to. CONCLUSION 68. In view of our above findings that the amounts collected by the

 assessees are capitation fee in quid pro qua for allotment of seat in deviation of

 the Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Collection of

 Capitation Fee) Act, 1992 and the same are neither a voluntary contribution

 nor to be treated as applied for charitable purpose, the orders of the Appellate

 Authority as well as the Tribunal, which are impugned in these appeals, are

 absolutely perverse in nature and therefore, they are set aside. Accordingly, all

 the substantial questions of law are answered in favour of the Revenue and

 against the Assessees. 69. Our country, though has developed considerably, after independence and

 made several strides marching forward in different fields including in
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 119/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 education, we are yet to reach the stage we aspired to, as a nation with specific

 reference to education. The States are unable to comply with the directions

 enshrined in the Constitution to thrive for education for all, which would

 encompass within it the access to all sections of the society by providing equal

 opportunity. Parents are reluctant to make their ward attend Public Schools

 unlike in other countries. As per the report of the All India Survey on Higher

 Education for the year 2019-20, by the Ministry of Education, Higher

 Secondary Department, 78.6% of colleges are privately managed. In the Union

 Budget for the year 2022-2023, a sum of Rs.1,04,277 crores has been allocated

 for school education, literacy and higher education. Despite the fact that there

 are State laws making it penal to collect capitation fee and the repeated dictum

 of various Courts including the Apex Court, the menace of capitation fee could

 not be curtailed, forget eradication. Education is a means to achieve equality. It

 not only instils confidence in the mind of the student, but also is a tool to

 eradicate exploitation. It offers employment opportunity, besides helping in

 churning oneself into a better person. The development of a country is to be

 weighed in terms of the educated. Privitization of education aids in collection

 of Capitation Fee. We hope that the Central and State government will thrive

 to ensure that all those who deserve, but are unable to get admission in

 educational institutions for want of funds, are accommodated to pursue
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 120/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 education and take appropriate steps to eradicate the collection of capitation

 fee by creating policies and awareness and for that purpose, on the lines of the

 web-portal under the aegis of the Supreme Court, a web-portal of a similar

 nature must be set-up, wherein any information about the private colleges

 charging capitation fees can be furnished by the students or their parents or

 anyone having first-hand information in this regard. The web-portal has to be

 maintained and regulated by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the

 Information Technology and Digital Services Department, Government of

 Tamil Nadu; and the State Government is directed to publish the details about

 the web-portal in the English as well as vernacular newspapers at the time of

 admission. In addition, a pamphlet should be compulsorily given to the

 students and their parents at the time of counselling informing them about the

 availability of the web-portal stated above. Apart from that, in view of the fact

 that the present appeals filed by the Revenue are allowed, it is natural that (i) The Assessing Authority shall proceed further on the basis of the

 orders of assessment of tax, which are the subject matter of these appeals. (ii) The Assessing Authority shall also proceed further for

 cancellation of registration certificate issued to the Assessees/trusts under Section 12A of the Act thereby not to treat the respondents as charitable

 institutions any longer. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 121/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch (iii) The Assessing Officer shall also proceed to reopen the previous

 assessments, if permissible by law, based on tangible materials relating to

 collection of capitation fee, since it is illegal and is punishable. 70. With the above observations and directions, all these tax case appeals

 are allowed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are

 closed. 5.The Deputy Director of Income Tax (Exemptions)-IV
 Chennai. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 122/123 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 R. MAHADEVAN, J
 and
 MOHAMMED SHAFFIQ, J

 rsh/rk

 TCA No. 303 of 2021 etc., batch

 31.10.2022

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 123/123