This appeal has been filed by the assessee against the
order of ld. CIT(A)-13, New Delhi dated 25.06.2019. 2. Following grounds have been raised by the assessee: 1.2 That on the facts and in the circumstances of
the case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the
order passed by Ld AO u/s 147/143(3) without
appreciating that no back material like investigation
wing report details vis a vis assessee, etc, was lawfully
confronted to assessee thus invalidating entire
reopening (much less cross examined as per due
process of law); 1.3 That on the facts and in the circumstances of
the case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the
order passed by Ld AO u/s 147/143(3) without valid
approval from superior authority under the Act; 1.4 That on the facts and in the circumstances of
the case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the 3 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

order passed by Ld AO u/s 147/143(3) without valid
notice u/s 143(2) on basis of return filed u/s 148 on
04/10/2018 (also in assessment order no mention
made to notice u/s 143(2) of the Act) ergo orders of
Ld AO/ Ld CIT-A may please be quashed. 1.5 That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the order
passed by Ld AO u/s 147/143(3) as none of the
assessee submission is appreciated while adjudicating
the appeal; 2. That order passed by Ld AO dated 29/12/2018
and further order passed by Id CIT-A dated
25/06/2019 are bad in law in as much as addition of
Rs 24,69,636/- (break up : addition u/s 68 on a/ c of
alleged bogus LTCG Rs. 23,52,034/- and addition u/s
68 Rs. 117,602 as unexplained expenditure being
transaction expense read with section 115BBE) is
made without appreciating that LTCG arising from
share sales on floor of stock exchange after due
payment of STT through recognized stock broker for
which voluminous evidence of purchase and sale are
no where contrad icted and overruled as per law and on
basis of stereoty pe narrative additions are made and
even relevant assessment related office manual of
revenue is not ab ided while making additions. 2.1 That order pas sect by Ld AO dated 29/12/2018
and further order passed by Id CIT A dated
25/06/2019 are bad in law in as much as addition of
Rs 24,69,636 /- is made violating principles of natural
justice without confronting any investigation wing
report relevant extract, statements recorded by
investigation wing, etc and without offering cross
examination of revenues witness whose statements is
extensively relied in impugned orders, which is
sufficient to quash the assessment order and order
passed by Ld CIT-A. 3. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the
action of Id AO in making addition of Rs 24,69,636/-
without appreciating that burden to, prove that 4 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

transaction is bogus/sham has remained un-discharged
from side of revenue and contrary findings of Ld CIT-A
are repudiated at length. 4. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, both Id CIT-A and Id AO erred in
making subject additions without appreciating that the
modus operandi relied extensively in impugned orders
is never co-related even remotely to the facts of the
present case as there is no iota of evidence brought on
record which can display that assessee herein has
inducted certain cash at the time of sale to certain
indentified broker/middleman/syndicate member who
has in turn introduced certain identified artificial paper
company for alleged parking of said cash to buy the
shares sold by the assessee which theoretical trail has
remained inchoate completely modifying the entire
basis of the addition. 5. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, Id AO and Ld C IT-A erred in making
and sustaining subject additions without appreciating
that law gives discretion to the assessing officer in
applying deeming fictions u/s 68 as applied by Ld AO
as firstly opinion and satisfaction u/s 68 as not been
objectively arrived in facts of present case on due
application of mind secondly assessee has no economic
capacity and source to generate given amount of
unaccounted income, thirdly law requires that
additions under said deeming fiction cannot be made
sans incriminating material brought on record which is
completely lacking in present case Lastly section 68
does not apply to sale of shares where no unexplained
cash credit within meaning of section 68 can be said to
have arisen therein. Significantly no books of assessee
are there before Ld AO within meanings of section 68
of the Act. (refer para 11.1 of asstt. Order & para
5.5/page 22 of CIT-A order) 6. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, ld CIT-A erred in sustaining the action
of ld AO in making addition of Rs.24,69,636/- without
appreciating that basis of findings of the lower
authorities is "suspicion" and "human probabilities" 7. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, ld. CIT-A erred in sustaining the
action of ld. AO in making addition of Rs.24,69,636/-
without appreciating that no opportunity is given to
the assessee to be confronted with back material relied
extensively in impugned orders like investigation Wing
report etc. and no opportunity to cross examine the
revenue's witness was given despite specific written
request in this regard made to Ld . AO/CIT-A. 8. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the
action of Id AO in making addition of Rs 24,69,636/-
without appreciating that in identical facts in various
orders relief has been granted to assessee accepting
LTCG (long term capital gains) as genuine. 9. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, Id CIT-A erred in sustaining the
action of Id AO in making addition of Rs. 24,69,636/-
without appreciating spirit of law contained in section
10(38) and section 43(5)(d) where statutory status is
provided to evidences generated from stock exchange
system treating the same to be impeccable and only
from finance act 2017 with prospective effective from
AY 2018-2019, amendment is made in section 10(38),
prior to which such gains would remain exempt. 10. That the ap pellant craves leave to add add/alter
any/all grounds of appeal before or at the time of
hearing of the appeal. Humble Prayer: Krishan Devi iv) To hold section 68 etc does not apply to sale of
 shares and that too sans cred it in books of
 account maintained by assessee; v) To restore returned income vi) Any other appropriate relief" Excerpts from the Assessment Order: 3. The assessee is an individ ual and during the relevant year,
the assessee is house wife only earn interest income on FDRs
and sav ing bank account as income from other sources and also
earned Long Term Capital Gains being exempt u/s 10(38). 4. The assessment proceedings u/s 147 of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 were initiated by recording reasons and notice u/s
148 of the Act dated 31.03.2018 was issued with prior approval
of the Addl. C IT, Delhi-38, New Delhi, Notice u/s 148 dated
31.03.2018 was sent through Speed post req uiring the assessee
to furnish her Return of income within 30 days in response to
notice u/s 148 . The assessee did not comp ly with this notice
nor had filed her return of income within the stipulated period
or filed any application seeking, adjournment etc. 5. Notice u/s 142(1) dated 28.08.2018 was issued and
served through ITBA also requiring the assessee to file her
return of income for AY 2014-15 in response to notices u/s 148 of the Act. In compliance to the notices various details as
sought by the AO have been filed. 6. During the year, the assessee has earned long term
capital gains of Rs. 21,90,385/ - and claimed the same as
exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. Krishan Devi 7. According to the assessee's sub missions, she had acquired
6000 online share of M/s Esteem Bio (EBFL) of Rs.1,59,000/-
on dated 07.02.2013 @ Rs.26.50/- per share. 8. The assessee has sold the entire 6000 shares of M/s
Esteem Bio (EBFL) in Mumbai Stock Exchange as follows: furnished purchase bill debit note of offline purchase of shares,
bank account statements, DP statements and broker notes for
sale of above mentioned stock to strengthen the claim of Long
Term Cap ital Gain, which has b een claimed as exempt from
taxation u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 10. The details of purchase and sale of this particular scrip
i.e. M/s Esteem Bio (EBFL) (hereinafter referred as The Scrip)
were examined. It was also found that the assessee has earned
a return of approximately 1584% over a very short period of
just over 13 months. These facts demanded a deeper study of
the price movements and share market behavior of the entities
involved in trade of the scrip as the share price movements and
the profit earned by the beneficiaries were beyond human
probabilities. Thus a deeper study was needed to ascertain
whether the transactions were genuine investment transactions
or colorab le device only to convert the unaccounted cash into
tax exempt income. In short, it was to be ascertained whether 8 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

the apparent was real. 11. The scrip were thoroughly
examined and the following facts emerged: through transactions in the impugned scrip of M/s Esteem Bio
(EBFL). 13. The investigation report was thoroughly perused by the AO
and after going through the relevant material and statements
recorded on Oath u/s 131(1) , it was evident that the scrip was
operated in a well-coordinated and pre-arranged fashion to
provide transactions in the form of bogus LTCG. Accordingly, a
detailed study and enquiry was made regarding the profile of
M/s Esteem Bio (EBFL) and its scrip price movement history
from the information available in public domain and primarily
from the BSE website. 14. The factual information/details relevant to assessment of
the assessee is being summarized as below: 15. Though the company is supposedly engaged in to
agriculture operations, wherein they cultivate wheat, paddy,
sugar cans, fruits, vegetables and flowers. They also eng aged
in the operations of wood plantation wherein the company 9 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

earned meager revenues. From the information available in the
public domain, it is not difficult for any genuine investor to
arrive at a conclusion that the company prima-facie is involved
in non-economic activities. Even an investor with risk-appetite
on a higher side is highly unlikely to invest in such a scrip t
unless the investor is in possession of specific information or is
certain about the assured return. 16. For the sake of brevity, comparative Profit and Loss A/c
sheets of the company for various years is reproduced as
below: 17. Captured below is the screenshot of the scrip price
movement of the manipulated scrip in q uestion from the official
website of BSE for the period 2010-2015. The two peak show
the manipulation of scrip twice, during the relevant period
under consideration during which the assessee has claimed to
have made huge and unrealistic gains. The scrip price
movement is in comp lete contrast with the financials of the
company during the entire period (2010-2015). Further the
share price movement from April, 2010 to March, 2015
reflected in the below chart reveals sudden price spurt without
fundamental support reveals that the company M/ s Esteem Bio
(EBFL) and the various entities involved in circular trading and
sale and purchase of the scrip have all been part of this ed ifice
to convert unaccounted money into accounted one by following
the above modus oprendi. Krishan Devi

Pattern of Thin Trading through large volumes: 18. The screenshot of bulk/block deals is captured from the
official website of Bombay Stock Exchange www.bseindia.com
shows the pattern typical of a well-coordinated manipulated
stock of thin trading by limited entities in large volumes. Dividend history of the Scrip 19. As per information available in the public domain such as
BSE official website www.bseindia.com and moneycontrol.com,
there is no sig nificant dividend pay-outs by the company in its
entire history. Rejectio n of Vague & General Facts & Submission of the
assessee 20. The reply of the assessee has been considered but not
found accep table in the light of the developments in the case
as already discussed above which clearly show that the
assessee has not been able to discharge onus of proving
genuineness of transactions. From the overall facts of the case
as brought out above, it is amply evident that,

a. Assessee purchased shares of a company/scrip t which is
devoid of any basic fundamentals and was susp ended by the
BSE for trading previously as well as afterward. A regular and
genuine investor would hardly know-that such a company to
even listed on BSE. b. From the Audited financials filed by the comp any with
BSE, it is a matter of fact that the listed company does not
have any significant/real business as seen from its last many
P&L accounts and do not have any significant fixed assets or 12 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

plant and machinery most of assets being either investment or
loans. c. The price movements of scrip are unrealistic and typically
Bell shaped that means huge rise over a short span, staying at
peak over a short sp an of time and then sharp decline in price
of share. And not matching with overall movement of share
market to general and movement of other scripts in same line
of business. d. Price movement of scrip upward and down word done
mainly through thin volume and all/ most entities involved in
the same are related in some way and are mainly operated by
some entry operator and are bogus. e. There is hardly any history of dividend pay-outs. f. There existed circumstantial factors such as splitting of
shares, change in name and address of the listed company,
which is generally done in cases of pre-arranged manipulation o
scrip prices to av oid SEBI's eyes. g. It is self-evident that the scrip price movement was mainly
on account of manip ulation in a pre-arranged synchronized
fashion to book accommodation entries in form of Bogus LTCG
as well as provide Short-term C apital loss to a huge number of
beneficiaries. h. In such circumstances, g iven the facts of the case, the onus
was on assessee to explain satisfactorily and establish that
claimed LTCG was genuine. It is distinctly evident that she has
failed to provid e any cogent or rational explanation in this
regard. Not only are the replies self-contrad ictory, evasive and
unbelievable for any reasonab le triad but starkly fail the test of 13 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

human probabilities. The explanations made therefore are
unsatisfactory. Just to cite a few instances of such unbelievable and
unsatisfactory statements. i. The shares were purchased off-market from a Private Party
and not through exchange, whereas the scrip was listed in
stock exchange in complete contrast with regular investments
made by the assesses. j. The assessee has not given any information with regard to
the details of the person who ad vised him to inv est in the said
scrip. Yet the assessee invested immediately without any
further enq uiry . k. No analysis was done in this case before investing
whatsoever and no cross verification was done in this case. l. The assesses has no idea what the listed company did or
does. m. If the AR of the assessee's v ersion is to be believed, the
assessee seem to be having amazing sense to distinguish
between various, penny stocks so much so she made above
mentioned investments as a reg ular investor in order to buy
the shares of such script. n. The assessee bought the share at a rock bottom price and
exited near the p eak of the scrip price curve. o. In the replies, the assessee has mainly contended that since
sale were made through exchange and the payment was
received throug h bank ing channel, it was a genuine
transaction. Secondly, sale was made online after paying STT 14 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

at the market rates therefore sale transactions were also
genuine. The contention of the assessee was examined . It is
not the case of this office whether purchase of shares throug h
preferential p lacement did actually took place or shares were
sold on the exchange at the prevalent market rates after
paying STT or not. What this office has come to conclude on
the basis of above analy sis, documentary evidences,
circumstantial evidences, human conduct and preponderance of
probabilities is that what is apparent in this case is not real,
that these financial transactions were sham ones and that this
entire ed ifice was only a colorable device used to evade tax. 21. The Assessing Officer further held that accord ing to Oxford
English dictionary SHAM means: "A thing that is not what it is
purported to be. In this instant case even though prima facie it
appears that assessee received the aforementioned proceeds
out of sale of shares of the scrip in clandestine manner. The
detailed analysis and the mod us oprendi discussed above firmly
estab lish the events in the instant case. 22. Based on the holistic investigation and enquiries made by
the AO, the mod us operndi and the movements of the script,
the Assessing Officer came to a conclusion that the transactions
have not genuine and disallowed the exemption claimed by the
assessee u/s 10(38) of the Act. 23. Aggrieved the assessee filed appeal before the ld. CIT(A). 24. Excerpts from the order of the Ld. CIT(A): from the website as well as the reports of the various
Investigating Agencies, it was revealed that while the book
value as per balance sheet has shifted to Rs. 570.38 from Rs.
18.31 in March 2011, the quantum jump of nearly 1500% in
share prices within 13 months defies log ic. 26.55 per share through IS F Securiti es Ltd.
25.02.2014 Sale of 1200 s hares @ 341.62 per s hare 4,09,944/- (through Demat ac count)
04.03.2014 Sale of 2400 s hares @ 390,32 per s hare 9,36,768/- 10.03.2014 Sale of 2400 s hares @ 419.26 per s hare 10,06,224/- During the appellate proceedings, the AR gave his written
submission. The objections raised by her are summarized
below: Krishan Devi 2. The AO did not confirm that the material in the report was
relatable to the transaction entered by the assessee. 3. That the copy of the investigation report and statement of
persons recorded by the investigation Wing and opportunity of
cross examination was not provided by the AO. 4. That the transaction was genuine since, all the
documentation was done in which no infirmity was found. 5. The assessee has cited several case laws in her favour and
tried to distinguish the judgments relied upon by the AO. The Ld.CIT(A) held that The principle of "preponderance of
probability" is judiciously followed as against "beyond
reasonable doubt." It is also to be borne in mind, that Directorate of investigation,
Kolkata in coordination with other Directorates of Investigation
at other places, carried out a major exercise and unearthed the
massive racket of entry operators and manipulators to launder
the black money and tax evasion. During the said exercise
various statements were recorded. Certainly, simultaneous
action was not taking place in each and every beneficiary's
case. Therefore every beneficiary or his representative was not
availab le at the time of record ing of those statements. This
situation is unlik e a normal court of law where at the time of
recording of the statement, the other party or his
representative is present in the same court and at the same
time and his offering of the said cross examination does not
pose any practical d ifficulty. It was not so in the present case.
There is one more aspect of the matter. The Investigation Wing
of the Income Tax department in course of discharge of the 17 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

official duty, has generated a report which is almost akin to an
expert opinion. Therefore, if necessary , the author of the report
could be cross-examined. However, at no point of time there
was demand to cross examine the author of the report. During
the hearing s conducted in connection with the present appellate
proceedings, the AR did not accept the idea to cross examine
the author of the report. Therefore the evidentiary value of the
said report is v ery much there like any other documentary
evidence. 4.5 In the present instance, the referred Investigation Report
of Investigation wing Kolkata was available on the public
domain and the assessee had free access to the said
documents. As regards cross examination, there are numerous
rulings which support the case of revenue observing that "so
long as the party charged has a fair and reasonab le opportunity
to see, comment and criticize the evidence, statement or record
on which the charge is made against him the demands and the
test of natural justice are satisfied." Nokia India Pvt. Ltd. vs.
DDIT of Hon'ble ITAT Delhi which has relied upon the decision
of Hon'ble Calcutta high Court in the case of Kisan Lal Agarwal
vs. Collector of land customs AIR 1967 and CAL 80. GTC industries vs. ACIT of Hon'ble ITAT Bombay which held
that "princip les of natural justice do not require formal cross
examination Therefore, it cannot be laid down as a general
proposition of law that the revenue could not have relied on
any evidences which had not been subjected to cross
examination." The LD.CIT(A) held that the assessee has emphatically stated
that all the requirements of section 10(38) have been covered
and the assessee wes entitled to the exemp tion. Further that 18 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

all the documentary evidences in support of this transaction
have been disregarded treating the transaction as sham. To
address this objection a background of this entire gamut of the
scam is briefly stated below. Outco me of investigations by the Investigation wing
 • Total 84 BSE listed companies were identified as penny
 stocks. • More than 60,000 PAN of the beneficiaries was inv olved.
 • More than 5000 paper/shell companies involved in
 providing bogus accommodation entries were detected.
 • Statements of the d irectors of the companies were
 recorded. • Cash trail reflected how unaccounted/undisclosed cash of
 beneficiaries was routed through to convert black money
 into LTCG/STCG. IMPORTANT OB SERVATIONS OF NSE/SEB I/SIT

 • 11 member Special investigation Team (SIT) of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court on Black Money has also pointed out the
 Misuse of exemption on Long Term Capital Gains tax for
 money laundering in the Third SIT report on Black Money.
 • Order of BSE of January , 2015 showing the list of 22
 banned penny stock companies for trading. The Ld. AR, on b ehalf of the app ellant has reiterated, that the
various searches and investig ations conducted by the IT Dept,
Inv Wing Kolkata found no material against the Appellant,
hence he has no role and is thus an innocent investor. Prima facie, it may appear to be so but, Income tax Act follows
the juridical principle of 'preponderance of probability' and not
'beyond reasonable doubt'. More so in a scam of such a 19 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

massive scale, with so many players involved, the laws of
evidence have to be accordingly applied. Even the AO has
drawn strength from jud icial pronouncements which specially
address such peculiar circumstances and facts. All the
circumstantial evidences point to the active or passive
connivance of one and all who were part of it and were
beneficiaries from this dub ious p lan. The appellant's vociferous assertion may for a moment appear
reasonable, but then the careful reading of Investigation Wing
Kolkata's report gives the true perspective. The predetermined
plan was executed with perfection which would not in any case
falter with the rules/documentation. But allowing misuse of
provisions was never the intent of legislature and least of all
jud iciary . Based on principles on reasonableness, preponderance of
probability and normal human conduct, it is only fair to
holistically appreciate the mindful efforts of the Investigation
Wing, SEBI and other agencies in estab lishing and unravelling
the true intent of all the beneficiaries, including the appellant. This further goes to prove that all the connected parties were
hand in g love in violating rules, laws of the land and thereby
defrauding the exchequer. Since, the assessee is also a
beneficiary, her connivance in the larger scheme of things, in
view of surrounding circumstances cannot be wished away
behind the garb of meticulous documentation. The Supreme
Court observation in the McDowell case befittingly supports the
AO's view which stated that "colourable devices cannot be part
of tax p lanning......". Krishan Devi

There could be an argument that the sale was a screen based
transaction on the Bombay Stock Exchange platform whose
genuineness could not be doub ted. It is worthwhile to mention here that the Apex Court of the
country has rejected this plea that every trading activ ity done
on BSE p latform does not have scope of manipulation. Hon'ble
Supreme Court in a recent judgment dated 8th February 2018
in the case of Securities and Ex change Board of India versus
Rakhi Trading Private Limited (civ il appeal number 1969 of
2011 with civil appeals number 3174-3177 of 2011 and civ il
appeal number 3180 of 2011) has observed as under: Thus, the screen based transaction would not necessarily make
it sacrosanct especially in a scam ridden case of such massive
proportion involving thousands of crores of rupees. Ld.C IT(A) relied on the following recent rulings of the ITAT in
similar cases inv olving bogus capital gains throug h transactions
in Penny Stocks: Krishan Devi

Pune ITAT upheld undisclosed income addition for sale proceeds
received by assessee-individual on sale of shares & rejected
asessee's short term capital gains ['STCG'] claim for AY 2006-
07: Based on the enquiries conducted by BSE/ SEBI, AO
observed that the shares of a company dealt in by assessee
were tainted by penny stock in as much as its prices were
manip ulated, Accordingly he held that the STCG brought into
books was nothing but income from undisclosed sources. It was
noted that assessee had claimed huge STCG of Rs. 22 lakh in
respect of penny stock purchased for a paltry sum of Rs.
75,000/, further noted that broker from whom assessee
purchased the shares was visited with the penalties by SEBI
and was debarred from acting as a share broken On assessee's
completion of paper-trail by producing contract notes, ITAT
remarks that "mere furnishing of contract notes etc. and more
specifically when seen in the background of the above noted
facts, does not inspire any confidence and cannot be a ground
to delete an ad dition, which is otherwise made on the solid
bedrock of detailed enquiries". It therefore concluded that the
assessee ob tained only accommodation entries in the garb of
STCG from transfer of penny stock and also sustained addition
to the extent of 2% on account of commission for arranging
deal of share-sale. [TS-5-ITAT-2019(PUNE)] ii) Hon'ble ITAT New Delhi in the case of Anip Rastogi & Anju
Rastogi [TS- 5007-ITAT-2019(Delhi)] has upheld addition u/s
68 on account of credits arising on sale of penny stock on the
ground that assessee had generated bogus entries of long term
capital gains on sale of penny stocks. Krishan Devi iii) Very recently Hon'ble Delhi High Court in 1TA No.
49/2018 pronounced on 17.01.2019 in the case of Pr. CIT Vs.
NDR Promotors P vt. Ltd. almost similar circumstances held that
"we have no hesitation in holding that the transactions in
questions were clearly sham and make belief with excellent
paper work to camouflage their bogus nature..... the reasoning
given is contrary' to human probabilities for in the normal
course of conduct, no one will make investment of such huge
amount without being concerned about the return and safety of
such investment. According ly the appeal is allowed ." iv) Hon'ble Nagpur ITAT while delivering judgment
dt.10.04.2017, in l.T.A. No. 61/ Nag/2013. Assessment Year: 4.9 It may be seen that whether explanation of the appellant
is satisfactory or not is to be seen with reference to the opinion
of the assessing officer. The legal position in this regard is
discussed in the following paragraphs. In the contex t of section 147 , Ld.C IT(A) held that Hon'ble
Supreme Court while delivering judgment in the case of Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd Vs. Income-Tax Officer And Others [1999] 236 ITR 34 (SC) laid down a ratio that the sufficiency or
correctness of the material is not a thing to be considered by
the courts. This view is reaffirmed by Hon'ble SC, in case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock
Brokers Pvt. 291 ITR 500(5C). The Hon'ble SC has stated as
under: 4.11 In Anant Kumar Saharia Vs. CIT [1998] 232 ITR 533
(Gauhati), it was held as follows (page 539): In the instant also, the case of the petitioner was fairly
considered and thereafter the above decision is taken."
(emphasis supplied). 4.12 In Phool Chand Bajrang Lai v. ITO [1993] 203 ITR 456,
Hon'ble apex court has held as under (page 477): 4.13 Hon'ble Delhi High Court, while delivering the judgment,
in case of Dalmia Pvt. Ltd . Vs Commissioner of Income Tax
Delhi [2011] 14 Taxmann.com 106 (Delhi), on 25 September,
2011 has uphold this principle. The Hon'ble HC stated as under: The assessee cannot challenge sufficiency of belief-ITO V.
Lakhmani Mewal Das (1976) 103 I TR 437 (SC)..." 4.14 Therefore, Ld .C IT(A) came to a conclusion that if the
subjectiv ity of 'reason to believe' cannot be subject matter of
consideration of the appellate courts, the subjectivity in
'opinion' of the A.O. can never be subject matter of 28 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

consideration of the appellate courts because certain
incriminating material having some evidentiary value is
required to form 'reason to believ e' and there is less chance of
subjectiv ity, however, 'opinion' can be formed' on the basis
some material which , strictly speaking , may not have any
evidentiary value and has much more (inherent) subjectivity.
What can be examined is whether there was material which has
been appreciated and whether the opinion formed is log ical and
one of the possible opinions which could have b een formed in
the given set of facts and circumstances. DECISION S RELIED UPON BY ITAT/COURTS IN FAVOUR OF
REVENUE ON THE ISSUE OF CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDEN CE
APPLICABLE IN PENN Y STOCK CASES

 • CIT vs. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 (SC )
 • Sumati Dayal 214 ITR 801 (SC)
 • Mc Dowell & Co. 154 ITR 148 (SC)
 • SornNath Maini 306 UR 414 (HC)
 • Ashok Mahendru & Sons (HUF) vs. CIT 173 TAXMANN 178
 (HC)
 • Hersh Win Chad ha Vs. DCIT 135 TTJ 513 (ITAT Delhi)
 • Arvind M Kariya Vs. ACIT IN ITA No. 7024/Mum/2010
 (ITAT Mumbai)

5.2 DECISIONS ON TH E ISSUE OF - RULE OF EVIDENCE

AO is a quasi - jud icial authority and rigor of the rules of
evidence contained in the evidence act are not applicable.
There is no presump tion in law that the AO is to discharge an
impossible burd en to assess the tax liabilities by direct 29 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

evidence only and to establish the evasion beyond doubt as in
criminal proceedings. • Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Ltd. Vs. C IT (1954) 26 ITR 775
 (SC)
 • S.S. Gadgil vs. Lal & Co. (1964) 53 ITR 231 (SC)
 • CIT vs. Jay Engineering Works Ltd. (1978) 113 ITR 389
 (Delhi HC)
 • Dinshaw Darabshaw Shroff vs. C IT (1943) 11 ITR 172
 (Bom.) • Hersh win Chadha Vs. DCIT 135 TTJ 51 (ITAT Delhi)

DIRECT DECISIONS OF HON'B LE COURTS/TRIBUNALS IN
THE CASE OF PENNY STOCK COMPANIES

 • M.K. Rajeshwari vs. ITO in ITA No. 1723/Bang/2018 vide
 order dated 12.10.2018
 • Abhimany u Soin vs. AC IT in ITA No. 951/Chd/ 2016 vide
 order dated 18.04.2018
 • Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. ITO in ITA No. 61/Nag/2013
 vide order dated 18th July, 2016 Han'ble ITAT Nagpur
 Bench confirmed by Hon'ble Bombay High Court v ide order
 dated 10.04.2017 (89 taxmann.com 196)
 • Dinesh Kumar Khandelwal, HUF vs. ITO in ITA No. 58 &
 59/Nag/2015 vide order dated 24h Aug ust, 2016
 • Ratnakar M. Pujari vs. ITO in ITA No. 995/Mum/2012 vide
 order dated 03.08.2016
 • Disha N. Lalwani vs. ITO in ITA No. 6398/Mum/2012 vide
 order dated 22.03.2017
 • ITO vs. Shamim M. Bharwoni [2016] 69 taxnnann.com 65
 • Usha Chandresh Shah Vs. ITO in ITA No. 6858/Mum/2011
 vide order dated 26.09.2014 30 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

 • CIT vs. Smt. Jasvinder Kaur 357 ITR 638 order dated
 12.06.2013 (Gauhati HC)

The Ld. CIT(A) held that while Ld. AR has supported his
contention citing various decisions of Hon'ble Hig h Courts and
ITATs but the final interpretation of the legislative intent and
law of the land has been clearly put forth by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the following three landmark judgments: precision of the entire operation, it was an exercise which was
targeted to introduce unaccounted money into the books, that
too without pay ing taxes, by abusing the exemption provisions u/s 10(38) of the statute, to circumvent the law of the land ,
evade taxes and deprive the exchequer of its rightful due. The
plethora of cases quoted by the AO all lend support to his
decision, especially in such scam ridden cases, wherein it is
essential to pierce the veil of legitimacy and innocence/
ignorance and look behind the charade woven to evade taxes.
On the other hand, after due consideration of arguments put
forth by the appellant, it is held that the Ld. AR has not been
able to controvert/ successfully distinguish the jud icial
pronouncements quoted by the AO. Accord ing ly, the addition of
Rs. 23,52,034/- u/s 68 r.w.s. 115BBE made by the AO, is
confirmed. Ld. CIT(A) held that the AO has also made further addition of
Rs. 1,17,602/- @ 5% of the total transaction amount of Rs. /-
by way of brokerage/commission paid to the entry operator as 31 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

admitted by persons who were involved in such share
manip ulations. However, the addition made by the AO u/s 68 is
erroneous and may be treated as unexplained expenditure u/s
69C . While the appellant denies the sale expenditure it is
known fact that there are no free lunches in the commercial
world. Even the judicial authorities have upheld the incurring of
such expenditure for arrang ing tax exempt income of such a
sizable amount. Accordingly, the addition of Rs. 1,17,602/- is
hereby confirmed . 25. Aggrieved with the order of the ld. CIT(A), the assessee
filed appeal before the Tribunal. 26. The ld . AR arg ued the issue extensively relying on various
case laws with regard to reopening u/s 148 and as well as on
merits of the case. Write up of our arguments for your honors kind consideration in
forthcoming hearing

Ground No. 1 & 1.1 on validity of impugned reopening u/s 148 on basis of reasons recorded in extant case (typed copy placed
on records)

In reasons recorded u/s 148(2) in present case, it is sub mitted
that same are based on mere vague information which remains
totally un-described and inchoate, that too for mere purpose of
scrutiny/verification and examination of long term capital gains
disclosed in ITR as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act, impugned
reopening u/s 148 is made, which as per coordinate bench
decision in case of SBS Realtors (G bench order ITA
779l/Del/2018) is impermissib le and similar reasons as 32 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

recorded in present case have been hitherto quashed in
aforesaid order of coordinate bench. We reproduce the said order here for sake of comp leteness: However, proviso to above Section provides the time limit
within which such notice can be issued . Once that time limit is
expired, in our opinion, the Assessing Officer cannot invoke Section 148 just for the purpose of verification. Therefore, in
our opinion, in the case under consideration, the reopening of 34 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

assessment for the p urpose of verification of genuineness,
identification and creditworthiness of the transaction is not
permissible under law and is liable to be quashed." Further in above order on reference to investigation wing
information for reopening of the case, it is succinctly held that: Even Delhi Bench of ITAT in case of Gopal Chand Mundhra in
similar reopening u/s 148 where allegation of bogus Long term
capital gains was there while quashing the similar
reasons/reopening, Hon'ble bench observed as under (after
considering Bombay high court d ecision and above SBS realtors
case) (ITA 1375/Del/2019) (Order: 21.08.2019): Held: Krishan Devi 27. The Hon'ble H igh Court in the case of PCIT vs. Meenakshi
Overseas Pvt. Ltd., vide ITA 692/2016, order dated 26th May,
2017, has observed as under:- 21. The third and last part contains the conclusion drawn by
the AO that in view of these facts, "the alleged transaction is
not the bonafide one. Therefore, I have reason to be believe
that an income of Rs. 5,00,000 has escaped assessment in the
AY 2004-05 due to the failure on the part of the Assessee to
disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for its
assessment... " 22. As rightly pointed out by the /TAT, the 'reasons to
believe' are not in fact reasons b ut only conclusions, one after
the other. The expression 'accommodation entry' is used to
describe the information set out without explaining the basis
for arriving at such a conclusion. The statement that the said
entry was given to the assessee on his paying "unaccounted
cash" is another conclusion the b asis for which is not disclosed.
Who is the accommodation entry giver is not mentioned. How
he can be said to be "a known entry operator" is even more
mysterious. Clearly the source for all these conclusions, one
after the other, is the Investigation report of the DIT. Nothing
from that report is set out to enable the reader to appreciate
how the conclusions flow therefrom. 23. Thus, the crucial link between the information made
available to the AO and the formation of belief is absent. The
reasons must be self evident, they must speak for themselves.
The tangible material which forms the basis for the belief that
income has escaped assessment must be evident from a
reading of the reasons. The entire material need not be set out.
However, something therein which is critical to the formation of
the belief must be referred to. Otherwise the link goes missing. 24. The reopening of assessment under Section 147 is a
potent power not to be lightly exercised. It certainly cannot be
invoked casually or mechanically. The heart of the provision is
the formation of belief by the AO that income has escaped
assessment. The reasons so recorded have to be based on some
tangible material and that should be evident from reading the
reasons. It cannot be supplied subsequently either during the
proceedings when objections to the reopening are considered or
even during the assessment proceedings that follow. This is the 39 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

bare minimum mandatory requirement of the first part of Section 147(1) of the Act." I find the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the case of M/ s SBS Realtors (P) Ltd. vs. ITO vide ITA No. 7791/Del/2018 order
dated 1st April 2019 has also quashed the reassessment
proceedings based on the information provided by the
Investigation Wing without any independent application of
mind. It was held that there was no tangible material which
formed the basis for the belief that income has escaped
assessment. The various other decisions relied by the id.
Counsel also supports his case. Since, in the instant case, the
reopening of the assessment has been made on the basis of
information received from the Investigation Wing and there is
no independent application of mind by the Assessing Officer
and such reopening is made on the basis of borrowed
satisfaction, therefore, such reopening is not in accordance
with law and ha to be quashed. Accordingly , such reassessment
proceedings hav e to be treated as not in accord ance with law
and has to be quashed ." Prayer on legal /jurisd ictional challenge: We humbly request
your honors to follow the above rulings, in present case and
quash the impug ned reopening action u/s 148 of the Act which
in our humble submission is clearly without authority of law
and merely for purpose of verification/scrutinizing and
examination impugned reopening is made which is held to be
impermissible and for that provisions of section 143(2) must
have been used if at all which is nowhere done as mandated in
law. Plea on merits of the case: Addition of Rs. 24,69,636 (break up
: addition u/s 68 Rs 23,52,034 on ground of alleged bogus 40 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

LTCG and addition of Rs 117,062 on ground of alleged
unexplained expenditure u/ s 68 of the Act)

Brief facts: During the period under consideration appellant
assessee earned, long term capital gains of Rs.23,52,034/- on
sale of 6000 shares of M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing
Ltd (EBFL) (date of sale February and March 2014) which were
acquired online for Rs.1,59,000/- on 07.02.2013 for which
reference may be made to paragraph 4.2 & 4.3 of impugned
assessment ord er. For which relevant contract notes are
enclosed in our paper book at pages 9-12, Entire sale proceeds
for share sale has been added back u/s 68 of the Act of
Rs.23,52,034/- and further Rs.1,17,062/- has been added on
alleged brokerage /commission paid @5% of Rs.23,52,034/-. So
total addition made in assessment order was Rs.24,69,636/-
which was sustained at CIT-A level, and same is impugned here
before this Hon'b le Tribunal. With this brief factual introduction we wish to humb ly sub mit
straig htway that in identical /same facts in assessee's own case
for AY 2015-2016, this Hon'b le ITAT (A bench Delhi ITAT in ITA
1070/Del/2019) vide order dated 06/08/2019 has deleted the
identical addition for which we reproduce relevant paragraphs
from said order to display present matter is fully covered by
that order: parte ad interim order of SEBI is dated 29.06.2015 wherein at
page 34 under para 50 (a) M/s. Esteem Bio Organic Food
Processing Ltd was restrained from accessing the securities
market and buy ing selling and dealing in securities either
directly or indirectly in any manner till further directions. A list
of 239 persons is also mentioned in SEBI order which are at
pages 34 to 42 of the order the names of the app ellants do not
find place in the said list. At pages 58 and 59 the names of pre
IPO transferee in the scrip of M/s. Esteem Bio Organic Food
Processing Ltd . is given and in the said list also the names of
the appellants do not find any place. At page 63 of the SEBI
order-trading by trading in M/s. Esteem Bio Organic Food
Processing Ltd . - a further list of 25 persons is mentioned and
once again the names of the appellants do not find place in this
list also. 25. As mentioned elsewhere the brokers of the assesses
namely ISG Securities Limited and SMC Global Securities
Limited are stationed at New Delhi and their names also do not
find place in the list mentioned here in above in the SEBI 42 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

order. There is nothing on record to show that the brokers were
suspended by the SEBI nor there anything on record to show
that the two brokers of the appellants mentioned here in above
were involved in the alleged scam. The Assessing Officer has
not even considered examining the brokers of the appellants. It
is a matter of fact that SEBI look s into irregular movements in
share prices on range and warn investor against any such
unusual increase in shares prices. No such warning s were
issued by the SEBI. 29. As mentioned elsewhere the shares of M/s. Esteem Bio
Organic Food Processing Ltd. were suspended from trading in
the stock exchange but that was from 29.06.2015 which is date
of the order of the SEBI, The shares of two companies were
purchased by the assessee in the month of February 2013 and
November, 2012 which were sold in the month of
February/March 2014 and these transactions took place much
before the report of the Investigation Wing and also before the
order of the SEBI. 30. Considering the vortex of evidences, we are of the
considered view that the assessee has successfully discharged
the onus cast upon him by provisions of section 68 of the Act
as mentioned elsewhere, such discharge of onus is purely a
question of fact and therefore the jud icial decisions relied upon
by the DR would do no good on the peculiar plethora of
evidences in respect of the facts of the case in hand and hence
the jud icial decisions relied upon by both the sides, thoug h
perused, b ut not considered on the facts of the case in hand. 31. We accord ingly direct the Assessing Officer to accept the
long term cap ital gains declared as such. Krishan Devi 32. As mentioned elsewhere the facts of all the appellants are
identical, the companies whose shares have been purchased /
sold g iving rise to long term capital gain are same, though the
quantum may differ. For our detailed discussion here in above,
the appeals of all the appellants are allowed with the direction
to accept the long term capital gain declared as such. 33. Since we have accepted the long term capital gains we do
not find any merit in the additions on account of alleged
payment of commission to the brokers and, therefore, additions
made on this account is also directed to be deleted. 34. In the result, all the appeals filed by the different
assessee's are allowed." Prayer: Since same script is involved namely EBFL and same
online purchase and sale is there. with same broker M/s ISF
Securities Limited, so we request your honors to apply above
decision in present case and please delete the addition of
Rs.24,69,636/-. For sake of completeness we humb ly draw your honors
attention to some more orders from this Hon'ble Tribunal which
supports our above prayer for deletion of addition: Above holding squarely applies to present facts. Further, Chennai bench of ITAT in two decisions where online
purchase of share were made, whether allegation of penny
stock can sustain on consequential online sale (same facts in
present case) it is succinctly held as under: The shares were also sold through ASE C apital Markets Ltd. The
Contract Notes for purchase and sale of shares were filed by
both the assessees before the Assessing Officer at the time of
assessment proceeding. The assessment proceedings were
completed on the ground that one Shri C handrakant Shah
provided accommodation entry to various persons. The question
arises for consid eration is whether the assesseee transaction in
respect of purchase of shares and sale of shares through ASE
Capital Markets Ltd. is a bogus transaction? This Tribunal is of
the considered opinion that when the fact that ASE Capital
Markets Ltd. is a recognized stock broker is not in dispute and
the assesseee have also purchased the shares at the market
rate and sold the same at market rate through recognized stock
broker of Security Exchange Board of India, it cannot be said
that the transaction was a bogus one. When the fact that the p urchase and sale of shares through
recognized stock broker is established and the shares were
purchased and sold at market rate, this Tribunal is of the
considered opinion that both the authorities below are not
justified in disallowing the claim of the assessees. Accordingly,
orders of both the authorities below are set aside and the
additions made by the Assessing Officer in respect of both the
assessees are deleted." Vijay Kumar Baid (HUE),
I.T.A. No.2300/CHNY/2018
Date of Pronouncement: 24-01-2019 46 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

However, records produced by the assesses before me in the
nature of contract note: issued b y M/s. MSE Financial Services
Ltd and certificate of M/s. Stock Holding Corporation of Ind ia
Limited clearly indicate that the shares were purchased by the
assessee through on-market transactions, and that too in
demat form. Payments were mad e by the assessee were also
through bank . Ld. Counsel for the assessee has certified that
these records were with the lower authorities. It is a matter of
record that SMIL had issued bonus shares in the ratio of 3:1
and thereafter split their shares. Sale made by the assessee
was also through stock exchang e and consideration received
through bank only . In similar circumstances in the case of Nirav Kumar Mahendra Kumar Sapani (supra) this Tribunal had
held as under:- In the circumstances, I am inclined to follow the decision of Co-
ordinate Bench in the case of Nirav Kumar Mahendra Kumar
Sapani (supra) . Transactions d one through recognized stock
exchanges where payments were made through bank cannot be
doubted or disbelieved based on an investigation report of the
Department, which at the best can be strong reason to suspect
the veracity of the claim but not good enough to disbelieve it. I
am therefore of the opinion that there is nothing concrete
brought on record by the Department to show that transactions
entered by the assessee in the shares of SMIL were bogus or
sham. I therefore do not find any reason to uphold the orders
of the lower authorities. Such orders are set aide and the
addition is deleted." Prayer: We humbly sub mit that above inundated jurisprudence
squarely applies to present facts where online purchase/sale of
share remains undisp uted so allegation of bogus LTCG cannot
sustain as opined in orders of Hon'ble Tribunal. Copies of all above decisions are enclosed herewith. So we pray for quashing of impugned reopening proceedings u/s 148 of the Act and deletion of addition of Rs 24,69,636/-. Krishan Devi 27. The ld. AR relied on the following case laws: 28. On the other hand, the ld. Sr. DR extensively relied on the
orders of the revenue authorities below. He has extensively
quoted from various judgments and reiterated the facts that
have been mentioned above as excerpts from the orders of the
Assessing Officer and the ld . CIT(A). 29. Heard the arguments of both the parties and perused the
material availab le on record. 30. With regard to the reopening u/s 148 , we have gone
through the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer before
issuing of notice. The reasons are as under: 31. In the backdrop of recording of reasons, the issue of
notice where income as escaped assessment and the sanction
for issue of notice as per the prov isions of Section 147 , Section
148 and Section 151 of the Act are perused which are as under: (c ) where an assessment has been made, but -- (i) i ncome charg eable to tax has been underass essed ; or (ii) s uch i nc ome has been ass essed at t oo l ow a rat e ; or (iii) s uc h income has been made the s ubj ec t of excessive relief
under this Ac t ; or (iv) excessive los s or depreciation allowa nce or any other allowa nce
under this Ac t has been c omput ed; (ca) where a return of income has not been furnished by the
assess ee or a return of i nc ome has been furnis hed by him and on
the basis of i nformati on or doc ument rec eived f rom the prescribed
inc ome-tax aut hority, under sub-s ection (2 ) of s ection 133C, it is
noticed by the As sessi ng Officer that the i nc ome of t he assess ee
exceeds the ma ximum a mount not chargeabl e to tax , or as the case
may be, the assessee has unders tated the i nc ome or has claimed
excessive l oss , deduction, allowanc e or relief i n the ret urn; (d) where a pers on is found to ha ve any ass et (includi ng financial
interest in any ent ity) located outside India. Expla nati on 3.--For the purpose of ass essment or reassessment
under this s ecti on, the Ass essi ng Officer may ass ess or reass ess the
inc ome i n respect of a ny issue, whic h has escaped assess ment, and
such iss ue comes to his notic e s ubsequently i n the course of the
proc eedi ngs under t his secti on, notwiths ta ndi ng tha t t he reasons f or
such iss ue hav e not been i ncl uded in the reas ons rec orded under
sub-secti on (2) of sec tion 148. Krishan Devi

Expla nati on 4.--For the removal of doubts , it is hereby clarified t hat
the provisions of this s ec tion, as am ended by t he Fi nanc e Ac t, 2012,
shall also be applicable f or any assessm ent y ear begi nni ng on or
bef ore the 1st day of April, 2012." 32. The provisions of Section 148 of the Act are as under: sec tion (2) of section 153, every s uc h notice referred to i n t his
claus e s hall be deemed to be a valid notic e: sec tion (2) of s ection 143 after the expiry of twelve mont hs
specified i n t he proviso t o claus e (ii) of s ub-s ec tion (2 ) of s ec tion
143, but bef ore the expiry of t he time limit for maki ng the
assessment , reass essment or re-c omputation as specified i n sub-
sec tion (2) of section 153, every s uc h notice referred to i n t his
claus e s hall be deemed to be a valid notic e. Krishan Devi

Expla nati on.--For the r emoval of doubts , it is hereby declared that
not hi ng contai ned in the first pr oviso or t he sec ond proviso shall
apply to any ret urn whic h has been fur nished on or aft er t he 1st day
of October, 2005 in response to a notice served under this sec tion. (2 ) The Ass essi ng Officer s hall, b efor e issuing any notice under t his
sec tion, record his reasons for doing s o. 33. The provisions of Section 151 of the Act are as under: 34. The ld. AR arg ued on the issues ranging from non-
scrutinizing and examination of records to approval u/ s 151.
The ld . AR argued that the Assessing Officer has failed to
scrutinize and examine the record before him and the reasons
recorded were merely the reasons to suspect but not reasons to
believe. The ld . AR has also argued the reopening u/s 148 cannot be used for mak ing roving and fishing enq uiries. He also
vehemently argued that the satisfaction by the Assessing
Officer was borrowed and the approval is mechanical. The ld .
AR relied on the judgments in the case of Synfonia Trade Links 54 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO, Ward-22 (4) dated 26.03.2021 of Hon'ble Hig h
Court of Delhi. 35. We have gone throug h the record before us and facts on
record and also various jud icial pronouncements on the issue of
reopening u/s 148 . We find from the reasons recorded, the
Assessing Officer has clearly mentioned that he has got
territorial jurisdiction to reopen the case. Hence, there is no
jurisdictional defect. The Assessing Officer has diligently gone
through the contents of the information received from the Co-
ordinate revenue authorities with regard to the trade of shares
of M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. The entire
modus oprendi was availab le with the Assessing Officer and the
same has been availab le in the public domain. The Assessing
Officer has clearly mentioned that the financials of the
company for the relevant period do not show any substantial
change to support a huge price moment reflect that the
Assessing Officer has been very focused on the issue which
triggered the reopening u/s 147 . The Assessing Officer is aware
of the fact that the capital gains need to be examined in detail
before taxing the same shows that the Assessing Officer has
not merely swayed by the information received but take a
conscious decision to examine the capital gains declared by the
assessee in detail so as to tax or exempt the same. The
Assessing Officer has clearly mentioned that as reasons to
believe that the income of the assessee has escaped
assessment for the A.Y. 2014-15 within the meaning of Section
147 of the I.T. Act. The Assessing Officer is well aware of the
time limit to reopen the assessment as per the provisions of Section 151 and has obtained due approval from the relevant
authorities in the case the Pr. CIT-13, New Delhi. Thus, the
provisions of Section 147 espousing when the Assessing Officer 55 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

has to issue a notice and believe the escarpment of income
have been d uly adhere. Similarly, the provisions of Section 148 with regard to issue of notice b efore mak ing the assessment
has been duly served and the assessee within the due date and
such notice has been served after taking due approval of the
Pr. C IT in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 . In our
opinion, the formation of belief by the Assessing Officer that
the income of the assessee chargeable to tax had escaped
assessment was reasonable as well as rationale and related to
the information received which is discernable from the bare
reading of the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer. While
the reasons themselves are undisputable, there is no reason to
find out fault with the approval given by the ld. PC IT which is
based on the facts enumerated b efore him. We find nothing on
record to dispute the approval given by the ld . PC IT u/s 151 for
issue of notice u/ s 148. 36. Further, it is the case of the Ld.AR that there was no
independent application of mind by the sanctioning authorities
for according approval. Whilst it is the settled position in law
that the sanctioning authority is required to apply his mind and
the grant of ap proval must not be made in a mechanical
manner, however, as noted by the Division Bench of the
Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in P rem Chand Shaw (Jaiswal) vs.
AC IT 383 ITR 597, the mere fact that the sanctioning authority
did not record his satisfaction in so many words would not
render invalid the sanction granted under section 151(2) when
the reasons on the basis on the basis of which sanction was
sought could not be assailed and even an appellate authority is
not required to give reasons when it agrees with the finding
unless statute or rules so requires. Krishan Devi 37. There is no req uirement to provide elaborate reasoning to
arrive at a finding of approval when the Principal Commissioner
is satisfied with the reasons recorded by the AO. Similarly , in
Virb hadra Sing h vs. Dep uty Commissioner Circle Shimla 88
taxmann.com 888 where the competent authority was in
agreement with the reasons assigned by the Assessing Officer,
so placed before him, which came to be considered and
sanction accorded with proper application of mind , by recording
"I am satisfied that it is a fit case for issuance of notice u/s
148 ", the issuance of notice under section 147 / 148 was held to
be valid. 38. In the case of PCIT Vs Meenakshi Overseas Pvt. Ltd. in ITA
No. 651/2015 order dated 11.01.2016 by the d ivision bench of
Hon'ble Jurisdictional H igh Court held ,

"16........for the purpose of Section 151(1) of the Act, what the
Court should be satisfied about is that the Ad dl. CIT has
recorded his satisfaction "on the reasons recorded by the
Assessing Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such
notice". In the present case, the Court is satisfied that by
recording in his own writing the words: "Yes, I am satisfied",
the mandate of Section 151(1) of the Act as far as the approval
of the Addl. CIT was concerned, stood fulfilled." 39. The above preposition has been referred to in the case of
S. Gandhi & Others in WP(C) 8482/2018 order dated
10.09.2018 by the Hon'ble Jurisd ictional High Court. 40. Similar v iew has been expressed by the Hon'ble High
Court of Delhi in the case Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
AC IT 115 Taxman 338. Krishan Devi 41. The expression "has reasons to believe" is wider than "is
satisfied and the reasons must have be live link with the
formation of believe. In the instant case, we find that the
reasons had a live link on the reopening as the information
pertains to the trad ing in the stocks of specified scrip . The
assessee has entered into transactions in the same scrip which
proves the live link with the information in the reasons invoked
by the Assessing Officer in this case. Similarly, we find that
there is existence of reason and existence of belief by the AO
to reopen the assessment based on the information and on
verification of the material before him. 42. The Hon'b le Supreme Court in the case of Lakhmani Mewal
Das 103 ITR 437 enunciated that the two conditions required
to be satisfied before the Income Tax Officer issued a notice
under s. 148 of the Income Tax Act are that he must have
reason to believ e (i) that the income chargeable to tax had
escaped assessment and (ii) that such income had escaped
assessment by reason of the omission or failure on the
part of assessee, to disclose fully and truly material
facts necessary for assessment for that year. Both
these cond itions must co-exist in order to confer
jurisdiction on the Income Tax Officer. Further the Income
Tax Officer should record his reasons before initiating
proceedings und er s. 148(2) ; before issuing the notice after
the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant
assessment year, the Commissioner should be satisfied on the
reasons recorded by the Income Tax Officer that it was a fit
case for the issue of such notice. ..... ............ (c) The grounds or reasons leading to the formation of the
belief under s. 147(a) must have a material bearing on the 58 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

question of escapement of income. Once there ex ist
reasonable grounds for the Income Tax Officer to form the
above belief, that would be sufficient to clothe him with
jurisdiction to issue notice. While the sufficiency of
grounds which induce the Income Tax Officer to act is not
justiciable, it is open to the assessee to contend that the
Income Tax Officer did not hold the belief that there was
such non-d isclosure. The expression "reason to believe" does
not mean a purely sub jective satisfaction on the part of the
Income-Tax Officer. It is open to the Court to examine
whether the reasons for the formation of the belief have a
rational connection with or relevant bearing on the
formation of the belief and are not extraneous or irrelevant for
the purpose of the section. In the instant case, we find that the
information and the reasons to belief have tangib le and
rationale interconnection much needed for reopening of the
case u/s 147 . 43. The Hon'b le Supreme Court in the case of Raymond
Woolen Mills Vs ITO 236 ITR 34 held as under: Krishan Devi 44. At the time of reopening what is required is reasons to
believe with regard to escapement of income, the Assessing
Officer is not required to establish escapement of income.
Estab lishing escapement of income is the culmination of
examination of material and investigation of the facts following
the d ue procedure as env isaged in the Income Tax Act . What is
necessary to reopen an assessment is not a final verdict but a
prima facie reason. In the instant case, neither the information
was wrong nor the reasons to believe were faltered. Hence, we
uphold the action of revenue authorities on the issue of
impugned notice dated 31.03.2018 u/s 148 . On Merits: 45. On merits of the case, the ld. AR primarily argued that the
issue is no longer res integra based on the judgment of the
Hon'ble High Court in the case of the assessee. The ld. AR has
produced the order of the Hon'ble High Court dated
15.01.2021. We have gone through the same and find that the
scrips involved in that year are different from the scrips
involved in the instant year. The order of the Hon'ble Hig h
Court dealt with the scrips namely Gold Line International
Finvest Ltd .(para 11 of the order of Hon'ble HC) whereas the
scrips involved in the instant year are M/s Esteem Bio Organic
Food Processing Ltd. In that case, the enquiry of the AO were
not inclusive and no action has been taken by the AO for not
responding to the notices issued by the revenue authorities.
We, with great respect, humb ly submit that the issues, shares
involved and the investigation in both the years are different
and hence differentiable. The observation of the adjudicating
authorities that the said scrip and brokers were not involved in
manip ulation defers from the facts on record. The ld. AR 60 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

relied on the various orders of the Trib unal in ITA No.
1070/Del/2019 for the A.Y. 2015-16, MB Jain Vs AC IT SCA No.
16881 of 2018 the facts of which are not applicable to the
instant case as the reasons recorded are at variance at the
reasons recorded in the instant case. Similarly, the reliance
placed by the ld. AR on the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of
Bombay in the case of M/s Shodiman Investments Pvt. Ltd. in
ITA No. 1297/2015, we find that the reasons recorded are in
the said referred case are different from the instant case. 46. It was argued that the scrips involved have been traded
online and hence no allegation of whatsoever can be made
against the assessee. It was further argued that the shares of
M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. cannot be treated
as a penny stock. 47. We have gone through the decisions and also facts on
record. The ld. AR's contention that the report of the
investigation wing and the enquiries conducted by the revenue
is much later than the dates of p urchase and sale of shares and
the order of the SEBI is also much later than the date of
transactions and nowhere SEBI has declared the transactions at
earlier dated as void cannot hold any water for the simp le
reason that any act of a person involving an operation against
the law would always be liab le for action only after the d ue
enquiries have been made and the facts have come to fore. It
cannot be said that since no enquiries have been conducted and
the transactions have been undertaken, the conduct of the
assessee is certified one cannot be established . Any enquiry in
a scam is initiated only after the scam erupts in pub lic and
taken due cognizance. Hence, it cannot be said that since the
transactions have been taken before the enquiries such 61 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

transactions remain un-coloured or simple, straight and
genuine. 48. The assessee cannot take shelter for the sole reason
representing that the transactions have been taken place on
the stock exchange platform when there is an enormous
evidence in the position of the revenue that the transactions
have been undertaken in collusion with the brokers and
promoter entities. The assessee cannot wash off her hands
saying that the assessee is not in active connivance with entire
scheme of operation but only a passive beneficiary of the
manip ulation of the trades/ scrips by some other persons or
entities. In order to prove the passive benefit g ained by the
assessee , the assessee has to come with suitable or reliable
evidences which can exonerate the assessee which is grossly
absent in the assessee's case. 49. We have also gone through the various enquiries
conducted by the SEBI in the case of M/s Esteem Bio Organic
Food Processing Ltd. The said scrips has been restrained from
operation of trading . The details are as under: 50. The Competent Authorities of SEBI has passed orders
dated 13.03.2019 and 22.12.2020 which has indicted the
trad ing of shares in circumspectiv e nature against the interest
of the public. The company was also restrained from trading on
the SEBI platform. Further, the Metropolitan Stock Exchange
vide order dated 23.12.2020 has also restrained from accessing
the securities market by issuing prospectus, offer document
or advertisement soliciting money from the public in any
manner for a period of 8 years. Krishan Devi 51. The order dated 13.03.2019 of the SEBI is as under: During the year 2011 and 2012, these companies increased
their capital base by issuing shares to several entities. Once
the equity share capital base of these companies increased
substantially, they came out with IPO in the year 2013. After
listing, the share price of all these companies increased
astronomically till December 31, 2014. More particularly, the
price of the scrip of Esteem Bio witnessed substantial increase
during the period February 7, 2013 to December 31, 2014, i.e.
within a span of 244 trading days. 3. It has also been observed that these scrips were not in
demand by the general investors. However, a set of connected
entities were pushing up the price by putting unusual trades,
i.e. 1 or 2 trades per day in such a manner so as to make
positive contribution to the Last Traded Price (LTP) and
establishing New High Prices (NHP). These connected entities
whose trades contributed majorly to the buying volume and to
the price rise of the scrip were referred to as the "Trading
Group" entities. Direct/ indirect connection was observed
amongst the trad ing group entities and also with other entities
related/connected to companies on the basis of Know Your
Client (KYC) details, bank statements, off-market transactions
amongst themselves and information available on the MCA
website, etc. 4. Subsequent to passing of the interim order, investigation
was carried out by SEBI to find out fraudulent practice, if any , 64 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

in the trading of the above mentioned scrips and to look into
the trading activ ity of the entities so as to ascertain any price
manipulation in breach of provisions of the securities law. The
investigation into the trading activity of certain entities in the
scrip of Esteem Bio has revealed that eight connected entities
of the trading group have contrib uted to the price rise of the
scrip of Esteem Bio by their positive contribution to LTP and
establishing NHP in the scrip by trading amongst themselves in
a concerted manner. It was observed that 8.89% to total
market positive LTP during the period of investigation was
contributed by the Noticees 1-8 who traded amongst
themselves continuously. Similarly, 9.15% of total market NHP
during the period of investigation was contributed by Noticee
No. 1 to 7 by executing the trades amongst themselves.
Accordingly, based on the above findings from the investigation
where trades of these eight entities were found to be unusual
they have been further proceeded against and the entities
against whom nothing adverse could be found in the
investigation were granted relief vide revocation order dated
September 6, 2017 passed in the matter. 5. As discussed above, pursuant to the investigation carried
out in the case of trading of the scrip of Esteem Bio, a Show
Cause Notice (SCN) dated November 30, 2017 was issued to
the eight entities, i.e., the Noticees. The SCN alleges that they
were not genuine traders and the trades executed by them
were instrumental in artificially increasing the price of the scrip
by establishing New Higher Prices and contributing to positive
LTP. They have been alleged to have violated the provisions of Regulation 3 (a) , 3(b) , 3(c) , 3(d) , 4 (1) , 4(2)(a) & 4(2)(e) of
SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices
relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (PFUTP 65 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

Regulations). The Noticees have therefore been called upon to
show cause as to why directions under sections 11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
1992 (SEBI Act ) be not issued against them for the aforesaid
alleged violations. 6. I find that in response to the SCN issued to the Noticees,
Shri Ashwin Verma (Noticee No. 4) has responded vide letters
dated June 11, 2018. However, none of the other Noticees has
responded to the SCN till date. In order to proceed further in
the matter, an opportunity of hearing was granted to the
Noticees on January 30, 2019. On the date scheduled for
hearing, Shri Dipak Purwar, Chartered Accountant, appeared for
hearing as Authorized Representative of Noticee No. 4 and
made oral submissions on the lines of the written reply filed by
the Noticee in the matter. The summary of the written and oral
submissions mad e by Noticee No. 4 is as under: 7. During the course of hearing, the authorized
representative was advised to furnish certain documents by
February 4, 2019, in support of his claim that the trading
account, demat account and bank account were misused and
that the Noticee had not authorized anyone to execute the
alleged manipulative trades. He was also advised to furnish
details of demat statement, bank statement and Income Tax
Returns for the relevant period as it was claimed by him that
he has been a regular investor in securities. However, till date,
no documents have been furnished by the Noticee. 8. The remaining Noticees have neither filed their reply nor
appeared for hearing. I note that in this case an ex-parte
interim order was passed on June 29, 2015 prior to the
issuance of SCN dated November 30, 2017. Noticees have been
granted sufficient time to file their replies and have been
provided adequate opportunities to appear for hearing,
however, they have chosen not to avail the same. Therefore, I
have to proceed and decide the matter on merit on the basis of
the SC N, the reply received and all the documents available on
record. Consideration and findings: 9. I have gone through the contents of the SCN, written
reply of Noticee No. 4 received in the matter and the
documents and materials available on record. The allegations
against the Noticees are that they have traded amongst
themselves in a concerted and pre¬meditated manner in the
scrip of Esteem Bio and were instrumental in increasing the 67 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

price of the scrip by successive contribution to positive LTP and
by establishing successive NHP during the period of
investigation. The SCN alleges that regulations 3(a), (b), (c), (d), 4(1), 4(2) (a) and (e) of PFUTP Regulations have been
violated by the Noticees. The provisions of these regulations
are reproduced hereunder: Regulation 4 . Prohibition of manipulative, fraud ulent and unfair
trade practices 68 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

"(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 3, no
person shall indulge in a fraud ulent or an unfair trade practice
in securities. (2) Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a fraudulent or
an unfair trade practice if it involves fraud and may include all
or any of the following, namely:-- 10. I would now proceed to examine as to whether or not, in
the facts of this matter, the manner of trading in the shares of
Esteem Bio by the Noticees can be considered as trades
executed in normal course of trading or it contains elements
which would amount to violation of the aforesaid provisions of
PFUTP Regulations. 11. The SC N mentions that the eight Noticees were part of
the 'trading group' entities, i.e. the entities whose trades have
contributed to price rise in the scrip. Based on the findings of
the investigation, it was alleged that there was
connection/relation amongst them as there were several direct
or indirect transactions executed between them. The
investigation has found that within the trading group, certain
entities are having common d irectors, common addresses,
common phone numbers, common email address, etc. It has
been also noted that certain entities of the trading group are
having several, direct or indirect, off- market transactions and
fund transactions amongst them. I find that the Noticees have
been provided with all the relevant documents along with the
SC N. The details of the connection found amongst the Noticees 69 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

and relied upon in support of the allegations made in the SCN
have also been furnished to the Noticees. 12. It is noted from the said details annexed to the SCN that
Accurate Buildwell Private Ltd . (Noticee No. 1), River High
Right Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee No. 7) and Century
Buildmart Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee No. 5) were directly or indirectly
effecting fund transactions between them. Further, as per KYC
documents, River High Right Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee
No. 7) is having common contact number with Century
Buildmart Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee No. 5) and it was also having off-
market transactions with Shri Ashvin Verma (Noticee No. 5) .
Shri Ashvin Verma and Shri Pawan Kumar Kaul (Noticee No. 2)
shared common email address and contact number. Shri Pawan
Kumar Kaul has executed off- market transactions with Core
Capital Services Ltd. (Noticee No. 6). Shri Ashvin Verma
(Noticee No. 4) has executed off-market transactions with River
High Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd . (Noticee No. 7), Core Capital
Services Ltd. (Noticee No. 6), Shri Vishal Yadav (Noticee No. 3)
and others in the group . Shri Vishal Yadav (Noticee No. 3) has
also executed off-market transactions with Core Capital
Services Ltd. (Noticee No. 6), River High Share Brokers Pvt.
Ltd. (Noticee No. 7), Shri Ashwin Verma (Noticee No. 4) and
others in the group. Sure Portfolio Services Pvt. Ltd . (Noticee
No. 8) has traded in the scrip of Esteem Bio and it is having
common director, address and email id with several other
entities in the trading group. 13. The details of the trades executed by and between the
Noticees along with the inter-se connections and relationship
shared by the Noticees with each other were provided to them
along with the SCN. Most of the Noticees have chosen not to 70 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

respond to the SCN and even the Noticee who has filed a
written reply, i.e., Noticee no. 4, has not disputed the
connections and transactions as alleged in the SC N. The
Noticee has also not disputed his relation with counterparties to
the trades. Similarly, other Noticees have also not raised any
disputes with regard to their connections as pointed out in the
SC N. I find it relevant to refer a judgment of the Hon'ble
Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) dated December 08, 2006 in
the case of Classic Credit Ltd . vs. SEBI (Appeal No. 68 of
2003), wherein Hon'ble SAT have observed that, "...the
appellants did notfile any reply to the second show-cause. This
being so, it has to be presumed that the charges alleged
against them in the show cause notice were admitted by them".
This finding was reiterated by Hon'ble SAT in a recent case
decided on February 11, 2014 ( Sanjay Kumar Tayal & Ors. vs.
SEBI - Appeal No. 68 of 2013), where it was observed that, "...
As rightly contended by Mr. Rustomjee, learned senior counsel
for respondents, appellants have neitherfiled reply to show
cause notices issued to them nor availed opportunity of
personal hearing offered to them in the adjudication
proceedings and, therefore, appellants are presumed to have
admitted charges levelled against them in the show cause
notices. ...". Under the circumstances I can conclude that the
relationships shared by the Noticees as observed in the SCN is
undisputed. 14. Before I proceed further, at this stage it will be relevant
to discuss the trades in detail executed by the eight Noticees in
the scrip of Esteem Bio which have provided the cause of action
against them based on the allegations made in the SCN. The
SC N alleges that the trades of the Noticees executed amongst
themselves in the scrip of Esteem Bio were instrumental in 71 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

contributing to p ositive LTP and establishing NHP. It is noted
that while positive contribution to LTP increases the price of
the scrip, NHP is the price which is higher than the price
already established in the scrip over a period which is under
consideration. On the b asis of LTP and NHP analysis carried out
during the investigation it has b een alleged that the Noticees
contributed to substantial and unusual price rise in the scrip of
Esteem Bio by trading amongst themselves. The details of
trades executed amongst the Noticees and their resultant
contribution to LTP and NHP are indicated as under: 15. The above trades were executed by the Noticees during
the month of January and February 2014. I note that the trade
log for the above trades and the pre-order book positions for
both buy and sell orders were provided to the Noticees along
with the SC N. Noticees have not responded to the same,
therefore, it can be assumed that they have nothing contrary to
offer in their defence to the allegations made in the SCN
However, m order to examine whether the trades executed by
the Noticees were manipulative or not, the aforesaid trades
executed by the Noticees are discussed further hereunder. Krishan Devi 16. From the details of trades entered into by the Noticees
and the details of orders placed during the day on which the
trades were executed, I note that for the trade executed
between Shri Pa wan Kumar Kaul (Noticee No. 2) and Century
Buildmart Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee No, 5) on January 16, 2014, the
order book analysis has revealed that Pawan Kumar Kaul placed
sell order for 1200 shares at 3:09:53 PM at a price
ofRs.134.90. Before this sell order there was no other sell
order available in the system. The buy order available in the
system was at the price of Rs. 112.35, which was much lower
than the sell order price. Within 4 seconds of placing the sell
order, i.e. at 3:09:57 PM, Century Buildmart Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee
No. 5), a connected entity, placed buy order at the same price
and die same volume as the sell order of Noticee No. 2 and the
trade for 1200 shares was executed at the price of Rs. 134.90,
This trade created NHP difference of Rs.10.10. Considering the
absence of liquidity in. the scrip and negligible volume of trade
and the timing of orders placed by the connected entities, I
find that the trade was not executed in normal course of
trading. The Noticee No. 5 by placing buy order to match the
sell order of Noticee No. 2 contributed to price rise in the scrip
and established NHP of Rs.134.90 which was Rs.10.10 more
from the last high price in the scrip. 17. On January 17, 2014, Accurate Buildwell Pvt. Ltd.
(Noticee No. 1) placed sell order tor 1200 shares at 10:18:35
AM at a price of Rs.145.00 per share. Before this sell order,
there was no other sell order in the system. The buy order
available in the system was at Rs.121.45, which was much
lower than the sell order price. At 10:25:49 AM River High
Right Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee No. 7), a connected
entity, placed buy order at the same price and the same 74 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

volume as the sell order of Noticee No. 1 and the trade for
1200 shares were executed at Rs.145.00. This trade also
established a NH P and the difference of this high price from the
last high price was Rs.10.10. 18. On January 21, 2014, Vishal Yadav (Noticee No. 3) placed
sell order for 1200 shares at 11.53.49 AM at price of
Rs.165.50. Before this sell order there was one more sell order
available in the system for 1200 shares at 166.00. There was
no buy order available in the system. At 5.03.19 PM, Core
Capital Services Ltd. (Noticee No. 6), a connected entity,
placed buy order at the same price and volume as the sell order
of the connected entity and the trade for 1200 shares were
executed at Rs.165.50. This trade created a NHP difference of
Rs. 6.55. 19. On January 22, 2014, Shri Ashwin Verma (Noticee No. 4)
placed sell order for 1200 shares at 10:43:44 AM at price of
Rs.173.85. Before this sell order there was no other sell order
or buy order in the system. In the evening, before closure of
market, Shri Vishal Yadav (Noticee No. 3), a connected entity ,
placed buy order at the same price and the same v olume as the
sell order of Noticee No. 4 and the trade for "1200 shares were
executed at Rs.173.85. This trade created NHP difference of
Rs.7.85, Thus, I find that the sell order of Noticee No, 4 was
pending in the system since morning and there was no buying
interest in the scrip at the price quoted by the Noticee No. 4. It
was only after a group entity (Noticee No. 3) placed a matching
buy order, the sell order resulted into a trade and established a
NHP. 20. On January 23, 2014, Accurate Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee
No. 1) placed sell order for 1200 shares at 3:11:01 PM at a 75 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

price of Rs. 182.00. Before this sell order there was no other
sell order or buy order pending in the system. At 3:11:05 PM,
Pawan Kumar Kaul (Noticee No. 2), a connected entity, placed
buy order at the same price and the same volume as the sell
order of Noticee No. 1 and die trade for 1200 shares got
executed at the rate of Rs.l82.00 per share. This trade
established a NH P and the difference of this high price from the
last high price was Rs.5.00.1 note that the orders were placed
in the evening by the Noticees and the orders matched within a
time difference of 4 seconds. Considering the absence of
liquidity in the scrip and the negligible volume of trade and the
timing of orders placed by the connected entities, I find that
the trade was not executed in normal course of trading. The
Noticee No. 2 by placing buy order to match the sell order of
Noticee No. 1 contributed to price rise in the scrip and
established another NHP which was Rs.5 more from the last
high price in the scrip. 21. On January 27, 2014, Ashwin Verma (Noticee No. 4)
placed a sell order tor 4800 shares at 3:24:23 PM at a price of
Rs. l 93.1 per share. At the time of placing of the sell order by
Notices No. 4, other sell orders were available m the system m
the range of Rs. 184.00 to Rs. 185.00, while a buy order was
available at the price of Rs.l75.00. The sell order placed by the
Noticee No. 4 was at a price higher than the available sell order
price. Within minutes of placing of the sell order by Noticee No.
4, a buy order was placed by Century Buiidmaxt Pvt. Ltd.
(Noticee No. 5), a connected entity. The buy order was at the
same price and of the same volume as the sell order of Noticee
No. 4 and the trade for 4800 shares got executed at Rs. 193.10
per share. This trade again established a NHP and created a
NHP difference of Rs.8.10. Krishan Devi 22. On February 6, 2014, Pawan Kumar Kaul (Noticee No. 3)
placed sell order for 1200 shares at 10:25:20 AM at price of
Rs.214.75. At die time of placing of the sell order by Noticee
No. 3, one sell order was pending in the system at the price of
Rs.215.00 per share and a buy order was pending with a buy
order price of Rs.200.00. The sell order remained pending in
tire system since morning. However, in die evening before
closing of the trading on the exchange, a b uy order was placed
by a connected entity, namely, Accurate Build well Pvt. Ltd.
(Noticee No. 1) matching the price and the volume of the sell
order placed by Noticee No. 3 and die trade for 1200 shares got
executed at a. price of Rs.214.75 per share. This trade created
NHP difference of Rs.8.95. 23. I further note that Accurate Buildwell Pvt. Ltd. (Noticee
No. 1) executed a self-trade on February 26, 2014. Self-trades
are fictitious trades which are executed without intention of
change in ownership of shares as same person places orders
from buy as well as sell side. Such trades merely creates
artificial appearance of trading and establishes new price.
Accurate Buildwell placed sell order for 1200 shares at a price
of Rs.384.00 at 9:51:12 AM. At the time of placing the sell
order, there were no pending sell orders available, while one
buy order was pending at Rs.369.10. Subsequently, buy order
was placed by tire same entity at same price and for the same
volume as sell order which resulted into trade at a price of
Rs.384.00 per share. This trade established a NHP in the scrip
and artificially raised the price of the scrip sending a false and
deceptive perception to innocent investors about the market
value of the scrip . Krishan Devi 24. I also note that the trades of the Noticees have made
positive contribution to LTP on several occasions in the scrip of
Esteem Bio and such trades executed by the Noticees were
instrumental in unusual price rise in the scrip. The Noticees by
acting as counterparty to each other have executed successive
trades at prices higher than the last traded price and as per
findings of the investigation, such trades hav e contributed
Rs.90.04 to the price use in the scrip. Sure Portfolio Services
Pvt. Ltd . (Noticee No. 8) has executed trades which contributed
Rs.1.85 to positive LTP and the trade has matched with River
High Right Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (Notic.ee No. 7). Similarly,
trades of other Noticees have also contributed to the price rise. 25. It is noted that the trades executed by and between the
Noticees have b een executed in a way to ensure matching of
orders placed by one Noticee with other Noticees. The Noticees
apparently have placed their orders in such a way that every
time the order placed by one of them matches with the order of
another counterparty Noticee, it leads to establishing a NHP
and making positive contributions to LTP in the scrip of Esteem
Bio. Their pattern of trading was unusual and did not contain
the characteristics for being held to be executed by persons in
normal course of trading in the market. 26. As can be observed from the above analysis, during the
period of price rise only a few trades were taking place in the
scrip of Esteem Bio on each day and the trades were mostly
happening on account of matching and execution of orders
placed by the Noticees. On most of the days failing in the
above period that witnessed sharp rise in price of Esteem Bio
scrip, sell order placed by a connected entity in the morning
remained in. the system till the evening when buy order of 78 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

equal quantity was placed by a connected entity matching the
sell order price so as to get the trades executed and to
establish a NHP on that day and also to make positive
contribution to LTP. Further, on many days when sell orders
were placed in the evening, matching buy orders were placed
within few seconds or minutes by connected entities. Thus, the
manner in which the orders were placed and matched shows
that there was a continuous meeting of mind and the trades
executed by the connected entities were premeditated in order
to gradually raise the price of the scrip of Esteem Bio. I find
from tire pattern of trading by the Noticees that one of them
was invariably placing buy order chasing the pending sell order
price of another Noticee in such a manner that the orders must
end in matching with a known counterparty and result in
establishment of NHP and in the process making positive
contribution to LTP. 27. As revealed during the investigation that the trades
executed by the Noticees 1 to 8 in the aforesaid manner by
trading amongst themselves have contributed 8.89% to the
total market positive LTP and the trades executed by Noticee
No. 1 to 7 amongst themselves have contributed 9.15% of total
market NHP. As stated earlier these findings have not been
disputed by any of the Noticees so far. In this contex t I would
like to refer to the order of Hon'ble Securities Appellate
Tribunal (SAT) in the matter of Shri Lakhi Prasad Kheradi Vs.
SEBI decided on June 21, 2018 wherein the Hon'ble SAT while
addressing the issue as to whether the entity had contributed
to 9.17% of the market NHP within a span of two weeks has
observed as follows: 28. After analyzing the trades executed by the connected
entities (the Noticees) amongst themselves, one can surely say
that such a trading pattern cannot be called as involving any
genuine trading; rather by so trading continuously for a period
of around one and half months, such trading pattern had
resulted into an artificial rise in p rice and volume in the shares
of Esteem Bio thereby creating a false and misleading
impression about the trading in the scrip of Esteem Bio to the
investors at large in the market. By continuously entering sell
and buy orders deliberately to match each other's order and
entering into trades in the scrip in a concerted manner the
Noticees have collusively established higher prices of the scrip
which was bound to have influenced the decision of the
innocent investors to invest in die scrip. In this regard, the
observations made by die Hon'ble SAT in its order dated March
21, 2014 in Saumil Bhavnagari Vs. SEBI are worth recalling,
which are as under: 29. With regard to the submission made by Shri Ashvin Verma
(Noticee No. 4) that the trades executed in his name were not
authorized by him, it is observed that he has neither submitted
any document in support of his claim nor have taken any action
against persons who have misused his accounts. Further, I find
it difficult to agree with him that an unknown person can open
a bank account, demat account and trading account only with
the help of photocopy of or forged documents, as claimed by
the Noticee, without producing any original document at the
time of opening these accounts. Therefore, I do not find any
merit in his contention. 30. To sum up , the discussions in the preceding paragraphs
clearly indicate that the Noticees have executed their traded in
a pre-meditated manner and as revealed by the investigation
have contributed 8.89% to the total market positive LTP and
9.15% of total market NPIP by trading amongst themselves
during the relevant period. From the multiple trades executed
between the Noticees, it is clear that they were not trading as
genuine buyers/ sellers and had no bona fide intention to trade.
Almost each trade of the Noticees was instrumental in
establishing a NH P and contributing to LTP to increase the price
of the scrip of Esteem Bio. In view of the repeated nature of
such trades, the culpability in increasing the price is
established. I can clearly find that the trades of the Noticees 81 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

are not trades executed in normal course of trading and
investment in securities market. Noticees have deliberately
.manipulated the price of the scrip and created a misleading
appearance of trading in the scrip to induce innocent investors
in the securities market thereby contravening the provisions of
regulations 3 (a), 3(b), 3(c), 3(d), 4 (1), 4(2)(a) and 4(2)(e)
of the PFUTP Regulations. Directions: It is also clarified that during the period of restraint, the
existing holding, including units of mutual, funds, of the
Noticees shall remain frozen. 32. The above, directions shall be effective from the date of
this order. 33. A copy of this order, shall be served upon the Noticees,
Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents of all Mutual Funds for ensuring compliance
with the above direction. Krishan Devi -Sd- enquiries with regard to the trading of scrip s and also with
regard to the b rokers namely, Goldline International Finvest
Pvt. Ltd. as well as ISF Securities who have been duly involved
in the operation of the scrips of M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food
Processing Ltd . The entire report is reproduced for the sake of
ready reference. WTM/SM/IVD/ID3/9875/2020-21
BEFORE THE SEC URITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF I NDIA
CORAM: S. K. MOHANTY, WHOLE TIME MEMBER
ORDER
Under Sections 11(1), 11(4)and 11B (1) of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
In respect of: In the matter of Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Limited

Background: v. The IPO of the Company was subscribed 1.06 times and
it had received 512 applications for 47,88,000 equity
shares (including market maker application for 750000
shares). Out of the said applications, 29 applications for
1,74,000 shares were rejected due to various reasons. After
rejection of such applications, total valid applications
remained 483 for 46,14,000 shares, which was 1.03 times
of the offer size. Finally, out of those valid applications, the
Company allotted 45,18,000 shares to 470 ap plicants. The
Company, was able to raise an amount of INR11.29 Crore from
470 applicants. The details of applications received, shares
allotted etc., are tabulated herein below: ( Not ic e e n o. 9 )
 7 A v is ha Cr ed it c a p ita l 4.5 0 3 15. 50 18, 00 0
 P v t . L t d. ( Not ic e e n o. 10 )
 8 N ik k y P ri nt i ng P r es s Pv t. 45. 00 25 - 1,5 0, 00 0
 Lt d . ( Not ic e e n o. 11 )
 9 M /S. N ee l Ka nt h T ra d ing 21. 00 14 - 84, 00 0
 C o. ( Not ic e e n o. 12 )
 10 I SF Sec urit ies Lt d. (Ac e 1.5 0 1 - 6,0 00
 C ons u lta nt - Not ic e e n o. 13)
 11 A ms o ns A ppa re ls Pv t . 4.5 0 2 - 12, 00 0
 Lt d . (N ot ic ee
 n o. 14 )
 12 G rac ious Sof tw are Pv t . 63. 00 42 - 2,5 2, 00 0
 Lt d . (N ot ic ee
 n o. 15 )
 13 I nd irec t F u nd i ng 960 0 0
 T ot al 60 7. 50 24 0 621. 10 23, 3 4, 00 0 3. Thus, based on the aforesaid details, the SCN alleges that
the Company and its Directors had devised and planted a
scheme with the help of the funding group entities to 92 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

achieve the threshold of minimum applications (90%) of the
offer size required for listing of its scrip on the SME segment of
BSE, as has been envisaged under Regulation 14(1) of SEBI
(Issue of C apital and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations,
2009, (ICDR Regulations)(hereinafter referred to as "ICDR
Regulations") 4. As the Company and its connected entities had allegedly
acted in concert to fund to the tune of 51.66% of the
total allotted shares, the achievement of compliance with Regulation 14(1) of the ICDR Regulations was allegedly
done under a fraudulent scheme, under which certain funds
from the IPO proceeds were transferred to few of the funding
group entities post-IPO (apparently to compensate them for the
funding of IPO applications done by them) The said act of
devising such a scheme to ensure listing of securities with
the help of the funding group entities has been alleged to be
in violation of Sections 12A(a) , (b) and (c) of Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as
" SEBI Act, 1992 ") read with Regulation 3 (a) , (b ), (c) and (d)
and 4(1) of SEBI (Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices relating
to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to
as "PFUTP Regulations"). 5.I note that the SCN was served on Noticee nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 9,
10, 12, 13through SPAD and Notice nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 14 and
15,through affixation. It is noted that the Noticee nos. 1, 3, 4,
10and 15 had sought inspection of the documents which was
granted to them. Later on, op portunity of personal hearing
to the Noticees was granted on June 18, 2019 which was
resched uled to July 02, 2019. However, as inspection of
documents was sought by few more Noticees, the personal 93 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

hearing was again rescheduled to August 06, 2019. It is
noted from the records that the hearing notice was served
upon on various Noticees through sub stituted mode of service,
viz., Newspaper publication, with the following details: 6. On the said date, i.e., August 06, 2019,only Noticee no.
13 appeared through authorize On the said date, i.e.,
August 06, 2019, only Noticee no. 13 appeared through
authorized representative and he was heard, while adjournment
requests were received from Noticee nos. 1, 3, 4,10and
15Accordingly, the Noticee no. 1, 3, 4 10and 15were
provided with another opportunity of personal hearing on
November 14, 2019. On the said date only, Noticee no.
3appeared on his behalf as well as on behalf of the
Company (Noticee no.1) also and inter alia informed that
Noticee no. 2has expired. 7. The Company i.e. Noticee no. 1, vide its letter d ated October
06, 2017and Noticee no. 3vide his letter dated June 13, 2019,
have sought copy of the entire investigation report and all
other material collected by SEBI during the investigation
and to support their request for such documents, reliance has
been placed by them on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India in the matter of SEBI Vs. Price Waterhouse
(Civil Appeal no. 6003-6004/2012).Further, vide letter dated
November 25, 2019, Noticee no. 1 and 3 have filed a written
reply to the SC N and also vide letter dated March 09, 2020, a
post hearing written sub mission has been filed by them. The
following key submissions have been made in the said letters: 8. Noticee no. 10 (Avisha Cred it Capital Limited), vide
its letter dated Sep tember 11, 2017, while denying the
allegations, has submitted that it is a Non-Banking
Financial Company (hereinafter referred to as 'Avisha') and
in its normal course of business, it had provided funds to
needy people, who in turn have discretion to utilize such
funds as per their requirement. The Noticee no. 10,vide its
letter dated June 12, 2019, has sought copy of entire
investigation report, all other material collected by SEBI
during the course of investigation, and also has sought cross 96 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

examination of persons whose statement were recorded
by SEBI during the investigation. Further, vide letter
dated July 29, 2019, the Noticee no. 10sought time to file
additional reply and has also sought certain documents.
The said documents were already provided to the
Noticee vide SEBI's letter dated July 25, 2019, however, so
far no further reply has been filed by the Noticee no. 10. 9. Noticee no. 13 (Ace Consultants) vide its written reply
dated October 03, 2017 and through a post-hearing
written sub mission vide letter dated August 19, 2019has
advanced the following submissions: 10. Noticee no. 15 (Gracious Software Limited), vide its letter
dated June 12, 2019, has made identical requests for copies of
documents, as have been made by other Noticees. Further,
vide letter dated July 29, 2019, the Noticee no. 15 sought
time to file written reply to the SCN, however, so far, no
reply has been filed by the Noticee no. 15. Consideration of Issues and findings 11. Before addressing the contentions raised on merits of
the case by various Noticees, I observe that a technical
ground raised by certain Noticees needs consideration first.
It is noted that few of the Noticees have made a request
to provide all the documents collected during investigation 99 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

and a copy of the entire investigation report etc. At the outset,
it is observed that the Noticees have made a very generic
request seeking all the documents pertaining to the present
proceedings without specifying as to which document they need
to defend their case on merit. Insofar as the copy of
investigation report and alleged non-compliance of principles of
natural justice is concerned, I refer to the observations made
by the Hon'ble SAT in the case of Reliance Commodities Ltd Vs.
National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd.(Date of
decision: July 23, 2019). The relevant portion of the said
observations are under: 12. Similar observations have also been made by Hon'ble
SAT in the matter of Shruti Vora Vs. SEBI (Date of decision: 13. Moving on further, it is observed that adequate
opportunities of personal hearing have been provided to all
the Noticees, however, the Noticee nos. 4 to9, 11,12, 14 and
15have neither filed any reply to the charges mad e in the SCN
nor have availed the opportunities of personal hearing granted
to them. I am therefore, of the view that as the said Noticees
have chosen not to respond to the SC N, it would be
appropriate to proceed in the matter, based on materials
available on record. Krishan Devi 14. I have carefully perused the SCN along with its
annexure as well as the sub missions made by the various
Noticees. Based on these the records and submissions, I
observe that in order to adjudge the charges leveled against
the Noticees in the SCN, the following issues needs to be
addressed: 15. Before adverting to the specific facts of the case, it is
deemed appropriate to first refer to the provisions of SEBI Act,
1992 and regulations, which hav e been either alleged to be
violated by the Noticees or are otherwise relevant for the
present proceedings. The said provisions are reproduced
hereunder for ready reference: SEBI (PFUTP) Reg ulations, 2003

Prohibition of certain dealings in securities Regulation 3 . No person shall directly or indirectly -- (a) buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities in a fraudulent
manner; (b) use or employ, in connection with issue, purchase or
sale of any security listed or proposed to be listed in a
recognized stock exchange, any manipulative or deceptive
device or contrivance in contravention of the provisions of
the Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder; (c) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in
connection with dealing in or issue of securities which are
listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange; (d) engage in any act, practice, course of business which
operates or would operate as fraud or deceit upon any 103 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

person in connection with any dealing in or issue of securities
which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock
exchange in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the
rules and the regulations made thereunder. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade
practices Regulation 4 (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 3, no person
shall indulge in a fraud ulent or an unfair trade practice in
securities. SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure R equirements)
Regulations, 2009

Minimum Subscription 14. (1) the minimum subscription to be received in an issue
shall not be less than ninety percent of the offer through offer
document: • G old line ha d a ls o f und m ov em en t w it h th e e nt it ies
 w h o ha d fu nd ed t o I P O a llott ee s v iz . A M S
 P ow e rt ro nic Pv t. Lt d , Br igh t Sec urit ie s , Co lum b ia
 Sa l es . Sr . P a rti c u la r s C on n e c ti on - F u n d M ov e m en t
 n o. P r op ri et or s Sec urit ies . hip
 Fi r m • Bri ght Sec ur it i es ha d f und m ov e m ent w it h N is ha
 T rad ers , M a g num I n dus t ria l, N V Sa les Co rp ora t io n,
 Br ight A On e F u rnit ur e, Go ld li ne a nd A M S P o w e rt ro nic Pv t. • A a v ia Build t ec h P vt . Lt d. a n d Aa v ia Soft ec h P v t.
 Ltd . hav e c om m o n D ir ec t or: 1 ) Ka m a l Sin gha l 2 )
 R am p r ak as h

 • Mr . Ra m p rak as h is t he p r op rie t or of M /s . K ha n
 Ent e rp r is e a nd M /s. A gg ra w a l T ra d e rs . • D irec t or Na m e :1 ) Su m it K um a r 2 ) V ina y K um a r

 • Ma yf a i r is c on nec t ed w it h AM S P ow e rt ro nic P v t.
 Ltd ., Nikk y P r int ing P res s P vt . Lt d. , t hro ugh
 c om m on D irec t o rs . • N ikk y P rint in g P r es s Pv t . Lt d . is c onn ec t ed w it h
 Ma yf a i r I nf os o lut ion Pv t . Lt d , AM S P ow e rt ro nic P v t.
 Ltd ., t h rou gh c om m on D irec t o rs . 9 N e el K an th • It had f und m ov e m e nt w it h A M S P ow e rt ro nic P v t . • A a v ia Build t ec h P vt . Lt d. a n d Aa v ia Soft ec h P v t.
 Ltd ., w ere ha v ing com mo n a d d res s : 1/2 48 6, G a l i
 N o. 2 6, R a m na ga r, M od ern Sh a hd ra , Ea st D e lhi -
 11 00 3 2 . • A a v ia Build t ec h P vt . Lt d. a n d Aa v ia Soft ec h P v t.
 Ltd . ha v e c om m o n Di rect ors : 1 )
Sr. P a rti c u la r s Co nn ec t ion - F und Mov em e nt
no . K a m a l Sin gha l 2 ) R a m p rak as h . • Mr . Ra m p rak as h is t he p r op rie t or of M /s . K ha n
 Ent e rp r is e a nd Ms /. A gg ra w a l T ra d e rs . 14 Sh i v • Sh iv T rad ers ha d fu nd m ov em ent w it h M a y fa ir
 T r ad e r s I nf os o lut ion P vt . Lt d. , K ha n En t e rp r is e,
 N e elk a n t h T ra d in g, A M S P ow ert r onic P v t . Lt d ., Aa v ia
 Buil dt ec h P v t . Lt d ., Es t e em Bio . Pv t . Lt d ., Go ld l ine , A ms o ns Ap pa r els P v t. Lt d. , N V
 Sa l es Co rp ora t i on, A a v i a Soft ec h P vt . Ltd. , N is ha
 T rad ers , Shiv T ra de rs , ECO , A g ga rwa l T ra d e rs ,
 Ma d hu ka r D ub e y, Es t ee m Bio . • D irec t or Na m e : 1 ) Su m it K um a r 2 ) V ina y K um a r
 • Sum it K um a r is t he c om m on D irect or in A M S
 P ow e rt ro nic P v t . Lt d ., N ik ky P rint in g P r es s P v t. Lt d.
 & Ma y fa ir I nf os o lut ion P vt . Lt d . 17. From the aforesaid tabular representation, as far as the
IPO subscriptions are concerned, I note that the SCN makes
allegations of connections that were being enjoyed by
various Noticees amongst themselves and largely the said
allegations have been premised on fund transactions that
were executed between various entities. For illustration,
the Noticee no. 1has been alleged to have transferred INR
239.60 Lakh from the IPO proceeds, to the Noticee no. 4
(Goldline). Further, it has also been alleged that an amount of
INR 245 Lakh was transferred by the Noticee no. 1to another
company viz., Eco Friendly Food Processing Ltd., which in
turn transferred the said amount to Noticee no. 4.I note
that similar to the above said allegation, Noticee no. 10
(Avisha Credit Capital Pvt. Ltd.) has also been charged
for having received an amount of INR 15.50 Lakh from the
IPO proceeds of the Noticee no. 1. Further, the Noticee no.
15also faces allegation of connection based on fund transfers
with Noticee no. 4 and Noticee no. 9. 18. It is observed that despite categorically imputing the
allegation of connection based on fund movements and
other factors, none of the Noticees has been able to
discharge the onus successfully by demonstrating that such
transactions were not due to the alleged collusive nexus
between them, but on account of some bonafide commercial 109 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

reason. As noted above that many of the Noticees have till date
preferred to remain silent and have not filed any reply to the
SC N. The Noticees who have responded to the allegations
made in the SCN, are also found to have made only various
bald assertions and their denial of having any connection with
the Company or with other entities has not been backed by
any credible supportive evidences, so as to inspire
confidence in any of their explanations to counter the
allegations of connections made against them in the SC N. 19. On a careful perusal of the replies filed by the Noticees, it
is observed that the Noticee no. 1has simply tried to shrug off
the allegations of connections with other entities by claiming
that the fund transactions alleged in the SCN, took place
out of commercial dealings, however, no verifiable
documents such as balance sheets, invoices, TDS certificate,
agreement/contract etc., have been produced before me to
support such a tall claim of having transferred huge sums of
money, viz :INR 239.60 Lakh from the IPO proceeds
directly and INR 245 Lakhs indirectly (through ECO), to the
Noticee no. 4 as a matter of so called commercial transactions.
Similarly, Noticee no. 10, which has claimed to be an
NBFC as also made a bald and superfluous statement stating
that it had provided funds to needy people, who had their own
discretion to utilize such funds(in the manner they wanted). I
note that the said assertions of the Noticee no. 10have not
been supported by any independently verifiable piece of
evidence to lay credence on the arguments so advanced by
it that it financed the needy people. No documents
corroborating such loans & ad vances made by it to the
needy people, such as the cop ies of applications made by
such people to it for financial support, the purpose of 110 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

such advances made, the subsequent recoveries of such
advances with interest etc. have been made available to me to
verify and get satisfied with their explanation. I would
rather say that the said Noticee being a NBFC appears to
have acted in unprofessional manner, as no documents
pertaining to said fund transfers, like nature of loan, rate of
interest, period of loan, copy of agreement, copy of ITR etc.,
pertaining to the purported loan/ advances extended in
pursuance of its non-banking financial activities were
furnished during the proceedings. Further, the reply of the
Noticee no. 10 is conspicuously silent on the allegation that it
had received INR 15.50 Lakh from the IPO proceeds of the
Company (Noticee no. 1) .There is no doubt that had such
transactions were entered into in due course of its genuine
NBFC business transactions, the Noticee no. 10 would have
certainly been able to substantiate its claim through its
records, but it clearly has failed miserably to do so and
therefore, I have no hesitation in rejecting the submissions of
the Noticee in defense of its funding the IPO application
as it has failed to disprove or controvert the allegations of
its connection with the Noticee no. 1,as well as with other
Noticees like Noticee no. 4 etc. 20. As regards the Noticee no. 13, the SCN has proceeded to
allege that the Noticee no. 13had fund movements with the
Noticee no. 4and another comp any, namely ISF Securities
("ISF"). It has further been alleged that the Noticee no. 3 (Mr.
Brij Kishore Sabharwal), who was a common Director of Noticee
no. 1as well as of ECO, was also a Director of ISF. Hence
Noticee no. 13 is allegedly connected with the Company
through Noticee no. 3. Krishan Devi 21. As per the submissions made before me and the
documents filed, Ace Consultant is a proprietorship firm of
Ms. Sunita Khemka. While referring to the submissions of the
Noticee no. 13, I find that it has not denied its connection with
the Noticee no. 3.It has been explained that the said Ms.
Sunita Khemka (prop. of Noticee no. 13) along with her
family members owned majority shareholding of ISF and
further she was one of the Designated Director of ISF. It has
further been stated that Noticee no. 3remained as a
Director of ISF for some time after the family members of
the Ms. Sunita Khemka acquired the said company. It
has however been contended that there was no personal or
collusive nexus with the Noticee no. 3 (Mr. Brij Kishore
Sabharwal),who eventually left the Board of ISF. In so far
as the transactions with Goldline (Noticee no. 4) is
concerned, the Noticee no. 13has vehemently argued that
it had received an amount of INR 50.00 Lakh from Noticee
no. 4 (Goldline International)and the said amount was repaid
to it along with interest @ 9%. In support of her
contentions, the Noticee no. 13has submitted copy of bank
account statement showing the relevant transaction entries,
copy of Income Tax Returns and balance sheetsetc. A
perusal of the said documents reflectsthat the Noticee no.
13had received INR 25 Lakh each on January 15 and 17, 2013
from the Noticee no. 4and has also transferred back INR 15
Lakh each on March 03, 2014 and March 07, 2014.
Similarly, through three separate transactions executed on
June 25, 2014, July 08, 2014 and July 17, 2014, the Noticee
no. 13has transferred back another sum of I NR 25 Lakh to the
Noticee no. 4and finally on July 26, 2014, an amount of I NR 81,
917 has been transferred to the Noticee no. 4. Krishan Devi 22. It is noted that apart from showing the payment of
interest on the said amount, the Noticeeno.13has also
credibly demonstrated before me that the said transactions
were genuine loan transactions between Noticee no. 4 and
Noticee no. 13, as found to have been corroborated from
various other documents, viz:-the Income Tax Returns and the
balance sheets. It is noted that in the Income Tax Return of
Ms. Sunita Khemka, M/s. Ace Consultant has been shown as her
proprietorship firm and in the balance sheet filed along with it,
certain amounts have been shown as unsecured loans, and the
said amounts are way higher than the amount transferred by
Noticee no. 4to Noticee no.13. Further, the detailed balance
sheets of two years (as on March 31, 2013 and as on March
31, 2014), also mention about the loans taken from
Goldline, which in the subsequent year (March 31, 2014),
gets reduced from INR 50, 92,465 to INR 25,22,492,
apparently, due to the payments of I NR 30 Lakh made
till March 07, 2014, as noted in the previous paragraph.
Therefore, when all the d ocuments are considered
holistically, in my view the Noticee no. 13 has succeeded in
discharging the allegations that its financial transactions with
the Noticee no. 4 (Goldline International) were loan
transactions, as have been corroborated by verifiable
documentary evidence produced by the Noticee no. 13 before
me. Under the circumstances, I am persuaded by the
aforesaid documentary evidences that the allegations of
dubious funds transaction with Noticee no.4 stands adequately
clarified or defended by the Noticee no.13. 23. I further note that apart from its financial transactions
with Noticee no. 4, the SCN alleges that the Noticee no. 13 had
fund transfers with ISF and also shared its address with ISF. I 113 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

note that the natural person (Ms. Sunita Khemka)behind
the Noticee no. 13(as a proprietor of the firm), was
admittedly also a Director and a majority shareholder in ISF in
which Noticee no. 3 was also a Director. Undoubtedly,
proprietorship of a firm is inseparable cannot b e taken away
from the proprietor of such firm, who in the present case
also happened to be a Director and shareholder in ISF,
hence the connection between Noticee no.13 (a
proprietorship firm of Ms. Sunita Khemka) and Noticee no.
3(Mr. Brij Kishore Sab harwal) is inevitably clear and settled. It
has been contended before me that in the initial
transition days of acquisition of ISF by Ms. Sunita Khemka
and her family, it was thought proper to let Noticee no.
3continue for a while as a Director of ISF to retain retail clients
of the said company and the Noticee no. 3eventually ceased to
be Director of ISF w.e.f March 21, 2014. I find such an
explanation is completely baseless offering no justification of
continuation of Noticee no.3 as a Director of a company
acquired by the proprietor of Noticee no.13 since the services
of Noticee no. 3 could have been availed in any other form also
to retain retail clients, instead of allowing him to continue as a
Director of the Company. Irrespective of the aforesaid, in
my view a close connection between Noticee no.3and
Noticee no.13, is now established beyond doubt. 24. The details of connections amongst the rest of the
Noticees have already been enumerated in the Table no.7
above and in the absence of any plausible explanation
offered by such persons/Noticees, I am constrained to
conclude that the allegations that these entities were
enjoying a close connection amongst themselves stand
vindicated based on the common factors indicated in the Table 114 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

no. 7, more particularly in the light of the fact that basis of
such alleged connections has been derived from tangible
factual supports like common directorships, common
addresses and fund movements etc., observed amongst these
Noticees. 25. I note that as per the regulatory framework prevailing at
the relevant point of time when the Company came out with its
IPO, in order to apply for the equity shares of the Company
under its IPO, the prospective investors were given option
either to file application along with payment of
consideration by cheq ue or to avail the facility of ASBA
i.e., - Application Supported by Blocked Amount, which
entails blocking of the amount of consideration in the
account of applicant till allotment of shares by the Company. 26. As noted earlier, the SCN has alleged that various
funding group entities had funded large number of
applicants under the IPO of the Company and based on the
support of such funding, shares were allotted by the Company
to such applicants. The SC N also enumerates the details of
such funding in a graphical representation, which is reproduced
herein below: 27. I observe that in majority of such cases, the funding
group entities are seen to be transferring money directly to the
IPO account of the Company on behalf of multiple investors.
For an illustration, Noticee no. 4, Satendra Kumar through his
proprietorship firm viz., Nisha Traders, had transferred INR
58.50 Lakh to the Company's account on behalf of 39 investors
(IPO applicants). Similarly, Noticee no. 15 has been noticed to
have transferred INR 63 Lakh to the Company on behalf of 42
IPO applicants. I note that entities like Noticee no. 4 (Goldline)
have not only transferred funds directly to the IPO account of
the Company (e.g. I NR 63 Lakh paid on behalf of 42 investors)
but also had provided funds to certain other entities, who in
turn have used such fund s to finance the IPO applications
either in ASBA mode or paid application amount directly to the
Company by way of cheque on behalf of IPO applicants, out of
the fund s so received from the Noticee no. 4. 28. I note that neither the ultimate recipient of the funds,
i.e., the Company, nor the transferor of the funds, i.e., the
funding group entities on behalf of various IPO applicants, have
furnished any justification for such fund movements in their 116 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

accounts on behalf of the applications filed by large number of
third party unrelated applicants. It is pertinent to mention here
that the Company has allotted shares to those applicants whose
applications were supported by cheques issued by various
third- party funding group entities (and not by the applicants
themselves) which was grossly against the norms governing the
issue of shares under IPO. 29. Having found that the Noticees have prima facie enjoyed
inter se connections amongst themselves as alleged in the SCN,
I note that the other connected leg of the allegation pertaining
to the funding of IPO applicants by the funding group entities
and their direct and indirect funds movements with the
Company indicating that the Company, out of the IPO proceeds
so received by it in the IPO, has transferred huge amounts of
money to many of the funding group entities also stands on
solid factual evidence. I have already placed a graphical
representation at para 2 (viii) of this order showing the
transfer of funds from the IPO proceeds of the Company to
various entities which included funds transfers to certain
funding group entities. 30. Curiously, I find that the Company has offered no
justification whatsoever to provide an insight as to why did it
accept cheques directly from various third parties on behalf of
large number of individual IPO applicants, who ev en apparently
were not related to those third party funding entities. It is
observed that the Company has evaded this aspect by claiming
that transactions executed by other parties should not be used
to attribute misd eed on the part of the Company as it has no
control on such third parties. I find such an explanation to be
casual, evasive and irresponsible, as the third party funding 117 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

transactions that have been imputed here have in fact led to
allotment of huge number of shares under its IPO. I note that
both the transferor and transferee of funds were under an
obligation to furnish justification supported by documentary
evidence so as to show that the transactions were genuine
commercial transactions. However, there is a clear failure on
the part of the Company as well as the funding group entities
in defeating the allegations of SC N. In view thereof, I find the
Company has miserably failed to demonstrate as to why it
accepted the payments directly from third partyfunding group
entities (instead of from the applicants). When the payment for
applications was made on behalf of RIIs by third party entities,
not only the Company accepted such applications, but also
proceeded to allot shares to such RIIs under its IPO. The
Company therefore ought to explain its misconduct and
irregularities with justification to defend the bonafide of such
transactions, but it has not been able to explain the rational of
such transactions before me. 31. I note that most of the funding group entities have
remained absent from the proceedings of the present matter
and even all of those who participated, have not been able to
justify their fund transactions. For illustration, as pointed out
earlier in this order I find that when the Noticee no. 10 was confronted with the charges of funding 3 entities(applicants/investors) to the tune of INR 4.5 Lakh
for their IPO applications, it has made a shallow statement
that it has provided funds to some needy persons, in pursuance
of its business activity of non-banking financial company. It has
further been argued by them that the recipient of the funds had
their discretion to utilize such funds (over which it had no
control). However, as I have observed before, the Noticee 118 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

no.10 has neither furnished any particulars of such advances
having been mad e to such needy people who applied for shares
of the Company under its IPO nor has provided any
documentary evidence so as to substantiate its claim of having
transacted with those people in course of its activities as a
NBFC. 32. Insofar as the Noticee no. 13 (Ace Consultant) is
concerned, I note that it faces the allegation of having funded
one ASBA applicant, who was eventually allotted shares under
the IPO of the Company. In this regard, the Noticee no. 13 has
argued that the allegations do not have merit as it was the
proprietor of the Noticee no. 13 itself, viz., Ms. Sunita Khemka,
whose application has been alleged to have been funded by the
Noticee no. 13 (her proprietorship firm). I further observe that
the Noticee no. 13 has filed various documents like copy of
bank account statements, income tax returns etc., in its
support to justify the movement of fund on behalf of its
proprietor. 33. I have carefully perused the allegations against the
Noticee no. 13 and its sub missions to counter the said
allegations. At the outset, it is noted that the Noticee no. 13 is
facing a limited allegation of having funded one ASBA applicant
and there is no charge levelled against the Noticee no. 13 to
have received the funds from the IPO proceeds of the Company
or to have funded other IPO applicants. Further, in order to
verify the claim of the Noticee no. 13, I have perused the
annexure to the SCN containing details of IPO allottees who got
funding from the funding group entities. In the said list, the
name of Ms. Sunita Khemka, proprietor of Noticee no. 13 finds
mention at Serial no. 225, who was allotted 6000 shares of the 119 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

Company with the financial backing of Ace Consultant and ISF
Securities. In this connection, as has already been observed by
me while adjudging the allegations of connections shared by
Noticee no.13 with other Noticees, the three entities, viz., ISF
Securities, Ace Consultants and Ms. Sunita Khemka are
certainly and admittedly connected with each other since, Ms.
Sunita Khemka is the proprietor of Ace C onsultant and
shareholder Designated-Director of ISF Securities. 34. Be that as it may, for the purp ose of allegation under
reference, I have to evaluate the transaction based on which
allegations have been made against the Noticee no. 13 that it
had transferred INR 1.50 Lakh to Ms. Sunita Khemka, who
utilized the said amount for making application under IPO and
got the allotment of shares of the Company. It is an obvious
fact that the Noticee no. 13, being the proprietorship firm of
the individual, Ms. Khemka has transferred funds for making
IPO application in her name. As per extant legal framework;
the proprietor and the proprietorship firm are considered one
and the same, undistinguishable from each other for all legal,
taxation and practical purposes. Further, there is no provision
to enable a proprietorship firm to be an IPO applicant in
exclusion of its proprietor. In the present case, the Noticee no.
13 has filed copy of ITR of Ms. Sunita Khemka for 2 years
wherein the details of the Noticee no. 13, as proprietorship firm
of Ms. Sunita Khemka, have been duly captured, which in the
absence of any other contradictory evidence, have to be
accepted. Therefore, as the allegations against Noticee no. 13
are limited to funding the IPO application of its own proprietor,
the said charges are not maintainable in view of the factual
support and legal framework, as discussed above. Krishan Devi 35. Adverting to the allegation against the Company and the
other Noticees, it is noted in the SCN that the Company has
with the help of its connected entities, funded large number of
IPO applications and has effected subsequent allotments of
shares to those investors. As can be seen from the narrative of
the SCN, out of 450 retail applicants, applications of as many
as 270 applicants were funded by the funding group entities
and out of the said applications, a total number of 238
applicants got allotment of 14,28,000 shares from the Company
under its IPO. Another set of 96000 shares were also funded
indirectly. Further, the market maker category also was fully
funded since one market maker, who was allotted 7,50,000
shares was also funded by Noticee no. 4 (Goldline) and
similarly, in the HNI category, out of total 11,46,000 shares
allotted, application of one H NI for 60,000 shares was funded
by the Noticee no. 4. Thus, in total, out of 45,18,000 shares
allotted by the Company under its IPO, the allotment of
23,34,000 shares was funded by the funding group entities,
which comes to 51.66% of the total shares allotted, while all
the funding group entities have been found to be
directly/indirectly connected with the Company itself. 36. As the Company and its connected entities were the major
financial source behind the IPO applications of a huge chunk of
51.66% of the total shares allotted, it is apparent that but for
the aforesaid financial support/funding made by the Company
and its connected entities, and only due to the concerted
efforts made by them in funding such large number of
applicants, the quantum of application of the IPO of the
Company was able to cross the mandatory and regulatory
threshold of 90% of the shares offered, in terms of Regulation
14(1) of ICDR Regulations. Thus, if the Noticees had not by 121 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

their covert act of providing funding to the large number of IPO
applicants played their respective roles in the scheme that
involved such a concerted effort by all the connected entities,
the Company would have miserably failed to achieve the
requisite minimum applications of 90% of the shares offered
under its IPO. Consequently, the Company would have been
forced to drop the issue of its equity shares and would have
been statutorily liable to refund the rest of the money collected
from the other non- funded subscribers/applicants and the IPO
would have been declared as a failed IPO Hence, without the
support from a pre-conceived scheme and the players (all the
connected entities) who participated in the said scheme to
make the IPO a success story, the issuance of equity shares of
the Noticee no. 1 would not have seen the listing platform on
the SME segment of the stock exchange. 37. It has strongly been contended on behalf of the Company
that the charge of providing funding in order to achieve the
minimum applications of 90% has not been made based on any
evidence available on record and annexed with the SC N. The
Company has argued that the charges of ensuring subscription
through funding of the IPO applicants are erroneous for the
reason that the IPO was 100% underwritten. The Company has
also furnished the copy of the Underwriting Agreement in
support of the said contention. 38. At this stage, I observe that there was no need for the
Company to even refer to the underwriting agreement, had the
Company and/or the other Noticees were able to show an iota
of bonafide in their transactions thereby successfully
controverting the allegations of funding the IPO applicants who
were allotted shares by the Company. The details of funding 122 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

made by the funding group entities need no further discussion
in this order, as the same have already been elaborated earlier
and have been found to be uncontested by any of the
submissions of the Noticees. 39. Without prejudice to the above, in order to deal with the
argument pertaining to the Underwriting Agreement, its
relevant clauses are reproduced hereunder: 40. The Company has sought to draw strength from the
aforesaid Underwriting Agreement by contending that based on
such an agreement alone, the charges of the SCN would fail. I
have carefully perused the contents and have gone through the
aforesaid relevant clauses of the Underwriting Agreement. As
can be deciphered from the afore stated clauses, the agreement
casts limited obligation on the underwriter, only to such
applications which would have been procured by it (the
underwriter) and the said liability is further restricted only to
those cases, where the applicant would default in the payment
or withdraws his application. The clauses of the agreement
nowhere provide for any omnibus provision which could support
the contention of the Noticee that by virtue of Underwriting
Agreement being in place, the underwriter was under 41. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I observe that on a
holistic assessment of the financial transactions that have
taken place between the Company and various funding group
entities as highlighted above, that have neither b een disputed
nor could be sub stantiated with any tangible justifiable reasons
by the Noticees and additionally looking at the non-response of
large number of Noticees to the SCN , the preponderance in all
probabilities that emerges is unabashedly tilted in support of
the allegation of the SC N that the Company and its connected
entities have indeed acted upon a pre-mediated scheme to fund
large number of IPO applicants in order to garner the statutory
minimum number of applications so as to make the IPO
successful. Thus, as far as the first issue for consideration is
concerned, I am clear that the same has to be answered
affirmatively against the Noticees and in favour of the 125 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

allegations made in the SCN. I shall now deal with the second
issue to cover the next set of allegations that the after
completion of the IPO process, the Company transferred the
IPO proceeds to various funding group entities in deviation
from the ob jects of IPO prospectus. Issue II: Whether the proceeds of IPO have been utilized by the
Company in terms of the Objects stated in the Prospectus? 42. It is noted from the SCN that the Company had raised an
amount of INR 11.29 Crore (approx.) by allotting 30.20% of its
post issue capital. The shares were allotted at the issue price
of INR 25 per share and the said shares got listed on the BSE-
SME segment after the process of IPO was over. During the
investigation conducted by SEBI, the Company was asked to
provide the details of utilisation of the IPO proceeds and in
response thereto, the Company v ide its letter dated December
25, 2015, furnished the break-up of the utilisation of IPO
proceeds, as on March 31, 2015. The said details are already
captured under Table 2 of the present order and are not being
repeated herein for brevity. 43. As can be noted from the details of the Table 2, the
Company had claimed to have utilised INR 3.75 Crore towards
setting up of a Shade Net Cultivation facility; INR 5.64 Crore
towards development of farm land; INR 99.67 Lakh toward s
investment in short term advances and another set of amounts
towards certain other expenses like Brand building etc. 44. I note that on the basis of prima facie observations
recorded in the course of investigation the Noticee Company
was categorically pointed out to the fact that it has transferred
the IPO proceeds to the funding group entities as a pay back to 126 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

those entities which helped the Company in achieving the
minimum subscription threshold of 90% to ensure a successful
listing of its securities. In the aforesaid context, it goes without
saying that the Company was under obligation to counter the
charges made in the SCN with cogent reasons and supporting
documents so as to substantiate the trail of funds out of the
IPO proceeds, justifying the utilisation of IPO proceeds on the
lines as stated under the object clause of the Prospectus.
However, the Company has not been able to provide a complete
picture of the utilisation of the entire amount of IPO proceeds
in any of its replies. 45. It is observed that, the Company had, during the
investigation, filed certain details of utilisations such as: (i)
INR 3.75 Crore towards setting up of shade Net cultivation
facility; (ii) INR 5.64 Crore towards development of farm land; (iii) INR 29 Lakh towards purchase of tools etc; (iv) INR 30
Lakh towards Brand building; (v) INR 31.28 Lakh towards Issue
expenses; (vi) and I NR 99.67 Lakh claimed to have been
invested in short term loans On the other hand contrary to the
aforesaid claims made during the investigation., as noted in the
SC N, the Comp any was found to have actually transferred
almost the entire proceeds so raised in the IPO to different
entities soon after the completion of the IPO . Further out of
the said transfers, as much as I NR 5.80 Crore has also been
transferred to a few of the funding group entities. The Company
has offered no explanation or subsequently no reasoning to
explain as to why in its submission mad e during the
investigation were subseq uently found to be not supported by
any verifiable evidence and instead the same is found to be a
false claim on the face of the actual funds transfers that have
taken place in its accounts post IPO exercise. Krishan Devi 46. In so far as the expenses claimed to have been incurred
towards one of the stated objects of the Prospectus viz.,
development of farm land for transition to organic farming is
concerned, it is noted from the Prospectus that the Company
had stated to have taken a land admeasuring 295.80 Acres in
the year 2008, on a lease for the period of 99 years which
commenced from 01.03.1933. The Company has claimed to
have paid INR 5.60 Crore to 4 different firms for the purpose of
development of portions of the afore stated piece of land, by
executing exactly identical agreements with each of such four
entities. It is noted from the records that apart from the
agreements, the Company has also filed copies of bank account
statements, invoices, ledger to justify the above noted payment
of INR 5.60 crore etc. The details of said agreements with
respective fund s transfer with the 4 entities are tabulated as
under: stamped and un-notarized piece of paper which renders their
documents ab initio unenforceable in law. It is also seen that
the contents of all the four agreements are identically worded.
The Company did not pay heed to get these agreements
registered/notarized, so as to safeguards its interest in case of
any future dispute/default from the counter party . Again, from
those agreements, it is not clear as to who is the executant on
behalf of the second parties, viz., Raj Marketing, S P
Enterprises etc. There is also no witness to those agreements
meaning thereb y, these agreements do not possess any
qualities to be called as valid and lawfully enforceable
documents. 48. Another factual contradiction/discrepancy noticed in the
submissions of the Noticee Company, is the dates mentioned in
those unenforceable agreements. For illustration, the
agreement with Raj Marketing India Limited, prop rietorship firm 129 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

based in Ghaziabad is meant for development of 97.34 acres of
land, and it carries date of execution as April 02, 2012. It may
be recalled here that the Company came out with its IPO only
in January, 2013. Thus, after raising money through the IPO in
January, 2013, a document which was purportedly executed
almost 9 months prior to the IPO has been shown in support of
the Company's claim of having utilized the IPO proceeds (raised
9 months after the date of execution of the said document) for
the aforesaid object of IPO. I observe that the said agreement,
if was really executed prior to the IPO, should have been
mentioned in the disclosures made by the Company in its IPO
prospectus. However, the Prospectus filed by the Company does
not contain any detail of such an agreement having been
executed by the Company. The aforesaid observation assumes
crucial significance in the calling the Company's bluffs as the
purpose behind executing the said invalid agreements, i.e., to
meet the object of land development of farm land for transition
to organic farming, is in fact the major object disclosed in the
Prospectus. The Company's claim of deploying the aforesaid
amount of INR 5.60 crores to meet the above noted object of
IPO through those invalid unenforceable agreements with the 4
entities, is clearly found to be a false, fictitious and concocted
claim, without any substance. 49. It is further pertinent to mention here that the Company
in its Prospectus had stated as: "The Company has so far not
entered into any technical or financial collaboration
agreement". Further, in yet another disclosure, the Company
had stated that is has not entered into any agreement with
suppliers of soil bed etc. The said clause reads thus: "We have
not entered into any agreement with the suppliers for supply of
soil bed, shade net cultivation etc. for the Project, we have 130 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

also not entered into any contract with contractors as specified
in the Objects of the Issue. Any delay in entering into such
agreements may delay the implementation schedule, which may
also lead to increase in prices of the equipment and
machineries in future affecting our costs, revenue and
profitability." 50. I find that the Prospectus contains a reference to the
quotation given by Raj Marketing for Land Development at the
rate of I NR 127 per Sq. Meter, however, the agreement referred to above , which has been supposedly executed 9
months before the IPO, has been executed for Land
development (total consideration of INR 1,84,18000 for 97.34
Acres/393920 Sq. Meters) at the rate of INR 46.75 per Sq.
Meter. Thus, in a short span of time, the price for land
development has been shown to have increased multi fold in
the IPO documents. 51. Further, as can be easily deciphered from the dates of
fund transfers mentioned in the table above, except for few
transactions amounting to INR 2.40 Crore, all the remaining
fund transactions were executed by the Company in the pre-IPO
period. For illustration, the Company has projected to have
paid INR 2.16 Crore to Shiv Traders out of the IPO proceeds for
land development, however, out of the said amount, all the
transactions (mentioned in serial no. 4 of the table), except for
one transaction of INR 60 Lakh, were executed during October,
2012. Thus, the Company has clearly attempted to claim its
pre-IPO transactions with those entities for its explanations for
utilization of proceeds of IPO which creates an incongruous and
contradictory situation that can hardly justify the utilization of
IPO proceeds. Krishan Devi 52. After noting the above said factual contradictions, I
further note that although the Company has claimed to have
executed the agreements of large values, they are not
supported by any documents pertaining to Board level
processes, approval by the Board of Directors, Board
resolutions, document in nature of authorization in favour of
the executant of the agreement, disclosures to stock exchange
etc. Similarly, the execution of these agreements is also not
found to be supported by any statutory documents nor the
Company has demonstrated crucial compliances like
approval of layout/ Land development plan from local
authorities, incorporating such amounts of transfers in the
balance sheets, profits/losses arising out of such agreements
as required to b e mentioned in Company's book of accounts,
deduction of tax at source from the payments made to those
vendors, TDS certificates issued by it etc. 53. I also note that notwithstanding the fact that the so called
agreements hav e been signed by the Company on its letter
head, these agreements undoubtedly deal with complex work of
development of large tracts of land parcels owned by an
incorporated entity. However, from a perusal of those
agreements, it is noted that no fixed time frame has been laid
down for completion of the work of development of those vast
portion of land. The Company has also not been able to produce
before me even the least minimum evidence like possible
photograph of the Land etc., so as to demonstrate the
development carried out/or being carried out on the said land
by the said developer, ever since those agreements were
executed. The Company had come out with the IPO in the early
part of 2013 and yet it appears that the project has not yet
even commenced till date, leave alone the comp letion of the 132 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

same. I t is also observed that each of the four agreements has
been executed with respect to development of a small piece of
land, out of the entire land admeasuring 295.80 Acres, owned
by the Company. However, surprisingly enough, none of these
agreements mentions any details with respect to the exact
identification of those small parcel of land assigned to each of
the 4 vendors entities and basic information such as survey
numbers etc., are also conspicuously missing in those
agreements. 54. To sum up, I note that the Company has attempted to
justify its huge financial transactions involving development of
farm land for transition to organic farming, aggregating to
almost half of the IPO proceeds, by producing unverifiable
documents like unregistered/un- notarized self-generated
agreements recorded on its letter heads, self-generated
invoices etc. which have no legal sanctity nor are they
enforceable in a court of law. Moreover, the Company has not
been able to furnish any statutory documents like approved
development plan, payment of land revenue/property tax,
audited balance sheets showing the aforesaid transactions
pertaining to land development, evidence of deduction of TDS
from payment made to the counter parties/contractors etc., in
support of its claim that those transfers of large sums of
amounts were indeed meant for the land development of farm
land for transition to organic farming. The Company has not
been able to show any corresponding revenue earned out of
such agreements and payments made to various parties or any
latest status report with respect to the development of the said
land even after 7 years of executing those so called
agreements. Moreover, the Company has not even identified
the respective portions of land, the development of which was 133 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

entrusted to those 4 entities under those fabricated
agreements. Thus, I find that the claim of the Company that it
has spent INR 5.60 Crore towards one of the most important
stated objects, of its IPO i.e. development of land for organic
farming, is grossly misleading, lacking any genuineness as the
Company has not been able to produce even elementary
evidentiary material and basic documentary support which
could have substantiated the rationale behind transfer of such
large sums of amounts out of IPO proceeds to various entities.
Instead, the explanations offered by the Comp any to justify
these transfers of funds to those entities are replete with
contradictions, hence cannot hold any value. 55. In the light of the ob servations recorded above, I am
constrained to hold that the aforesaid invalid agreements
cannot provide any respite to the Company in defending such a
serious charge made in the SC N about non-utilization or rather
wrongful utilization of IPO proceeds in deviation from the
stated objects as per the prospectus of IPO. As already
observed earlier, the so called agreements executed by the
Company on its internal letter head in an un- notarized form
suffer from serious infirmities hence prima facie do not appear
to be genuine, hence, in my view, the Company has not been
able to justify the transfer of INR 5.60 Crore out of the IPO
proceeds. 56. Moving on to the next claim of the Company, I find the
Company, in its reply, has claimed to have extended an amount
of INR 4.40 Crore as 'short term loans' to 4 entities with
following details: Ironically even after passage of 7 years, the Company is still
claiming these advances as "short term", which is nothing but
in contradiction with the disclosures made in the IPO
Prospectus, and also falls far short of being termed as a short
term loan transaction from any perspective. There is no second
view that a company which raises funds from the public by
offering its securities, is obligated to disclose the true objects
of such issuance and also to adhere to the said stated objects.
In the present case, the Company had not disclosed in the
objects of IPO any intention to extend short term loans to any
entity however, in deviation from the stated objects it has gone
ahead in advancing short-term loans of such large amounts to
those four entities. The information submitted by the Company
during investigation had only stated about Investment in short
term advances for an amount of INR 99.67 Lakh, which is not
the same as advancing short term loans and admittedly the
amount of such loans is I NR 4.40 Crore which is far higher than
the amount of INR 99.67 Lakh, as noted above. Thus, the 135 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

transfer of IPO proceeds amounting to I NR 4.40 Crore towards
short term loans is certainly an act done by the Company
outside the declared objects of IPO behind the back of the
public shareholders. Further, the Company has also not
bothered to provide any details on the recovery status of those
so called short term loans which have remained outstanding for
recovery even after 7 years of advancing them to those four
entities. In sum, the Company has failed to satisfy me on
utilization of the said amount of INR 4.40 Crore towards the
stated objects of IPO as disclosed in the prospectus. 58. I also note that the Company has not mentioned anything
about spending of even a single rupee on the stated IPO
objects like 'Setting up of Shade Net C ultivation facility',
'Procurement of farm tools and equipment's' and 'brand
building'. I note that the Company in its Prospectus, had
claimed that it had a plan to spend INR 3.80 Crore, INR 30.00
Lakh and 80.00 Lakh, respectively, for the aforesaid objects.
Not only in the Prospectus, even in the communication
addressed to SEBI during the investigation, the Company had
asserted to have already spent INR 3.75 Crore, INR 29.06 Lakh
and 30.00 Lakh respectively on the above said three objects.
However, from the records filed during the present proceedings
before me, the Company has not furnished details of any such
expenditure having been incurred under the aforesaid three
heads. Thus, the claim of the Company with respect to the
utilization of IPO proceeds on the above stated objects also is
found to be false, evasive and misleading. 59. Having found that the Company has not been able to
demonstrate app ropriate utilization of the IPO proceeds on the
lines of the stated objects in the prospectus, the Company has 136 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

to be confronted with the allegations of having
transferred/diverted the IPO proceeds to various entities
including the funding group entities who have funded the IPO
applications of large number of applicants. The Company could
have easily confronted the said charges with strong evidence to
the contrary by showing that the utilization of the funds from
the IPO proceeds has actually been made for the right purposes
and declared objects as per IPO documents, but as recorded in
detail above, none of the claims of the Company about
utilization of IPO proceeds was found to be true and duly
substantiated with any verifiable evidence and the explanation
offered by the Company were found to be rather specious,
manipulative and baseless. Under the circumstances, it
becomes clear that the Company has fraudulently diverted the
IPO proceeds towards some other inexplicable purposes which
were never disclosed to the public shareholders in the IPO
documents. Therefore, in this contex t it becomes crucial to
discuss in detail the fund transfers made by the Company to
various funding group entities, which would again contradict
and demolish the claim of the Company about utilization of IPO
proceeds as per the stated objects. 60. As discussed in the previous paragraphs, the Company in
its written replies has stated that an amount of INR 5.60 Crore
has been utilised towards land development agreements, apart
from advancing short term loans of INR 4.40 Crore. Thus, as
per the Company's replies the total amount of IPO proceeds
utilised towards the land development agreements and short
term loans aggregates to I NR 10 Crore. However, it is seen
from the records that the Company has not provided any
details with respect to the transfer of INR 4.84 Crore made to
the Noticee no. 4 (Goldline) and also with respect to various 137 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

other amounts which were transferred immediately after
receiving in the IPO proceeds. Even if the aforesaid
submissions of the Comp any are taken on their face value, the
amounts of fund s transfers as per the claim of the Company in
the submissions at the stage of investigation and the amounts
of funds transfer as per the explanation offered by the
Company during the present proceedings do not reconcile at
all. I note that even during the present proceedings, the
Company has not been able to furnish any information
whatsoever with respect to the expenses incurred towards
setting up of net cultivation facility, purchase of tools, brand
building etc., towards which, the Company had claimed to have
spent I NR 4.34 Crore, as on March 31, 2015 during the
investigation proceedings. It is thus clear that the Noticee no.
1 (Company) has not come out with clean hands and has tried
to mislead SEBI by coming out with different contradictory
explanations and claims at different stages of the proceedings
about the utilisation of IPO proceeds while none of the
submissions made at different points of time have any strength
to rebut the allegations made in the SCN. 61. Against the aforesaid deficiencies and inconsistencies
noted in the explanations and submissions made by the
Company with respect to the utilisation of IPO proceeds, it may
be relevant here to mention that out of the total amount of INR
11.25 Crore raised in the IPO, the Company had transferred a
total of I NR 4.84 Crore to Goldline, i.e. the Noticee no. 4 (INR
2.39 Crore were transferred directly and INR 2.45 Crore were
transferred indirectly through ECO). The Company has simply
termed the said transaction with Noticee no. 4 (Goldline) to be
a commercial transaction without even attempting to provide
any details of those commercial transaction involving such a 138 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

huge sum of public money and the Company has not even
claimed if the above amounts transferred to Goldline were in
compliance with any of the stated objects of IPO. It is observed
that the said amount of INR 4.84 Crore constituted around 43%
of the total amount raised by the Company but the Company
has not been able to provide any justification for transferring
such huge amounts to Noticee no.4. Similarly, the Company has
also not been able to furnish the any supporting details for
various other fund transfers like transfer of INR 3.25 Crore to
an entity called AMS Powertronics; INR 40 Lakh to another
entity viz., Aviva Buildtech; INR 81 Lakh to Noticee no. 9 and
transfer of INR 15.50 Lakh to Noticee no. 10 etc. It is pertinent
to mention here that all these transactions took place
immediately after the receipt of IPO proceeds and within a
short span of 11 days after the IPO exercise was over, the
Company had transferred approximately INR 11.00 Crore to
various entities, details of which have been enumerated in the
pictorial representation under para 2 (viii) of this order. Thus,
the gross inability of the Company to furnish any supporting
details to substantiate the transfer of funds to various entities
coupled with the evasive & misleading explanations offered by
it from time to time as pointed out in previous paragraphs
speak volumes of the unscrup ulous misconduct of the Company
and does not inspire confidence in any of the sub missions made
by the C ompany. 62. In terms of the charges made in the SCN, the Company
had transferred INR 4.84 Crore to the Noticee no.4 (Goldline);
INR 81 Lakh to Noticee no. 9 (Mayfair Infosolutions); and INR
15.50 Lakh to the Noticee no. 10 (Avisha Credit Capital), all of
whom are called the funding group entities, out of the proceeds
of the IPO. Thus, in total the Company had transferred I NR
5.80 Crore to the aforesaid 3 funding group entities, all of 139 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

which were found to be involved in providing funds to a large
number of retail IPO applicants so as to ensure that the
minimum mandatory subscription level is achieved thereby
ensuring a successful listing of the equity scrip of the
Company. 63. The Company has contended that the transfer of funds
made to the above stated four Noticees including Noticee no. 4
were arising out of commercial transactions. However, as
already noted and discussed at length while dealing with the
aspects of connection between various entities, no details with
respect to the business for which such funds transfers were
effected, have been provided by the Noticee no. 1. I, find it
beyond acceptance that the Company would enter into so called
commercial transactions with four incorporated entities and
transferred funds to them involving large sums of money out of
the IPO proceeds in the range of INR 15.50 Lakh to INR 4.84
Crore and when asked about the details of such fund transfer,
there would be no answer either from the Company or from the
receiving entities (Noticee nos. 4, 9 etc.). Moreover, the
Company which was under a serious statutory obligation to
utilize such fund s in the interest of investors by deploying such
funds towards the stated objects of IPO but it has palpably
offered no reasoned explanation to justify the purpose of such
transfers of funds. 64. It is also pertinent to mention here that all the funds out
of IPO proceeds were transferred out to various entities
immediately after the completion of the IPO within a span of 11
days, however, despite the fact that more than 7 years have
elapsed by now , the Company has even not been able to
provide any basic information as to what was the purpose of
such fund transfers, how were they ultimately utilized, whether 140 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

any revenues have been generated out of those funds transfers
or whether any recovery has been effected out of the funds so
transferred 7 years ago etc., leave alone producing any
documentary evidence to substantiate the purpose & objectives
of those funds transfers. These unexplained transfers of IPO
proceeds compounded by the fact that no satisfactory
explanation is forthcoming from any of the notices to justify
these funds transfers further strengthen the preponderance of
probabilities that the Noticees have skillfully devised &
successfully implemented the scheme of funding, both directly
and indirectly, almost half of IPO subscriptions by a large
number of IPO applicants in collusion with other funding
Noticees. 65. I observe that the Company while requesting for a re-
investigation of the matter has contended that during the
investigation by SEBI, only a selected financial dealings have
been picked up as it was constrained to furnish all the financial
transactions to the investigating officer for some reasons. The
Company has further claimed that, if it was provided with
sufficient opportunity to furnish explanation about utilizations
of the IPO proceeds during the investigation, the outcome of
the investigation would have been different. In this regard, I
note that the issues involved in the present proceedings pertain
to the year 2013 and the Company is now req uesting for a re-
investigation primarily on the ground that during the
investigation, for some constraining circumstances, they were
not able to provide complete information and in the absence of
the same, the investigating authority has picked up some
selected transactions and entries, while proposing initiation of
the present proceedings. I have considered the request of the
Noticee Company and observe that the Company has neither 141 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

explained as to what were the constraining factors that
prevented it from sub mitting all the information during the
investigation nor has it explained to me what further details or
information it wants to furnish now (which it could not furnish
earlier) which will mitigate all its hardships and exonerate it
from the allegations made in the SC N. The proceedings before
me is a quasi-judicial proceedings and the Company is free to
furnish any additional information or evidence as it wishes to
give to defend itself against the allegations levelled in the SCN,
for which there is no need for having another fresh round of
investigation by SEBI. 66. In order to grant a fair trial to the Company before
arriving at final conclusion, the Company was afforded repeated
opportunities to submit all such documents and information
which it failed to furnish to the Investigation Authority. I
believe the Company has also availed the opportunities and has
put up its best possible defense to rebut the charges made in
the SC N. The Company and Noticee no. 2 have ap peared before
me for personal hearing and also have filed their written replies
including documents such as agreements of bank account
statements etc., which they claimed to have failed to furnish at
the time of investigations. Therefore, the grievances of the
Noticees about having been not given a fair trial do not exist
anymore and my findings and observations in this order are not
only based on the allegations made in the SCN but also after
taking into cognizance all the submissions, both oral & written
made by the Noticees and various information including copies
of banks statements furnished by the Company & other
Noticees. In my view, the Company and the other Noticees
whoever have responded to the SCN, have provided all the
information that they wanted to furnish out of their own 142 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

volition during the present proceedings, and none of the
Noticees has expressed any constraint or handicaps now for
furnishing information to me. Under the circumstances, no
bonafide reason for permitting a re-investigation into the
matter subsists. In view of the ab ove, the Company's grievance
of bias or prejudice, if any, has been fully taken care of to
ensure free and fair trial of the present proceedings. However,
the fact remains that despite affording adequate opportunities
to all the Noticees, and in spite of various factual submissions
and documents submitted by the Noticees in their defense,
neither the Company nor any other Noticees could come up
with any tangible material or verifiable evidence (which they
were deprived of furnishing during the investigation) to justify
the huge sums of fund transfers made out of IPO proceeds in
flagrant violation of the stated objects of the IPO as per the
prospectus. 67. To sum up the present matter, it is found that the
Company, working under a pre- conceived scheme to pursue a
common ob jective with other Noticees, first ensured that
financial support is provided to the IPO applications of as many
as 240 investors who were ultimately allotted 23,34,000 shares
from the IPO of the Company. As seen and discussed earlier in
this order, immediately after the successful completion of the
IPO which garnered support of 51.66% of the applications with
the collusion and support of the funding group entities, the
Company has transferred INR 5.80 Crore (approx.) that
constituted around 51% of the total IPO proceed s, to various
funding group entities. All the Noticees, while playing their
respective roles in the scheme, have ensured that the IPO sails
through and crosses the mand atory statutory threshold of
achieving 90% of the shares offered under the IPO which could 143 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

be made possible only by their concerted action of funding the
applications to the extent of 51.66% the shares allotted under
the IPO but for which, the IPO would have certainly failed to
meet the mandatory mark in terms of Regulation 14(1) of ICDR
Regulations. Consequently, the application received under IPO
and would have miserably fallen short of the pre-condition of
90% of offer size and the Company would have been under
obligation to rep ay the rest of the subscription money raised by
it from the non-funded applicants under the IPO. The scheme
that the Company had crafted and implemented in coordination
with other Noticees, especially the funding group Noticees to
fraudulently ensure success of its IPO programme, is self-
evident and explains why the Company had to transfer bulk of
the IPO proceeds to a few of the funding group entities
immediately after completion of the IPO and why the Company
failed to deploy the IPO proceeds towards the objects of IPO
thereby betraying the faith and trust of those genuine investors
who had subscribed to its shares under the IPO relying in the
misleading disclosures made by the Company. It also amply
explains as to why the Company and other Noticees have not
been able to produce any concrete reasons and tangible
evidence to justify the transfers of such huge sums of money
out of IPO proceeds to a number of entities including to certain
funding group Noticees and despite their bald & superfluous
claims of having utilized the IPO proceeds for the declared
objects, why none of the Noticees has been able to substantiate
such claims with even a shred of supporting evidence till the
conclusion of the present proceedings. Eventually such specious
claims about utilization of IPO proceeds remained far away
from the actual utilization those IPO proceeds and till date, the
objects of IPO have remained as unfulfilled promises to the
innocent public shareholders who whole heartedly supported 144 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

the Company's SME listing with the expectation of a good
performance from the Company . 68. Keeping in view the aforesaid detailed factual analysis of
the matter and my findings as well as observations based on
those facts supported by documentary evidence, it is clear to
me that the Company and other Noticees have worked as per
the aforesaid manipulative scheme in order to get the shares of
the Company successfully listed on the SME segment of BSE.
Finally, the funds so raised in the IPO were also fraudulently
diverted by transferring them to numerous entities including
certain funding group entities who had funded the IPO
applications of large number of applicants, in a glaring display
of breach of trust of the genuine public sharehold ers who never
came to know that the funds raised by the Company from them
have actually been utilized for purposes other than the
objects/purposes declared by the Company in its IPO
documents. Thus, I am satisfied that the SCN has been
successfully brought home the charges against the Noticee no.
1 and the funding group entities, viz: Noticee nos. 4 to 12, 14
and 15, who with their active connivance with Noticee no.1 at
their respective ends, have contributed their part in fructifying
the said scheme. In view thereof, I am convinced beyond doubt
to hold that the Noticee nos. 1, 4 to 12, 14 and 15 have
violated Section 12 A(a), (b) and (c) of SEBI Act, 1992 read
with Regulations 3(a), (b), (c), (d) and 4(1) of PFUTP
Regulations, 2003. 69. Insofar as degree of proof to establish the charges is
concerned, I note that for proceedings like the present one, the
degree of proof is of preponderance of probabilities, which as
elaborated above, is totally in support of the charges made in 145 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

the SCN. It may be relevant to refer and rely upon the
observations of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court that: "Clearly,
given the manner in which fraudulent acts are undertaken
under deceit and camouflage, if done with the affairs of a
company/trust etc., the standards of proof required to prove
such fraudulent conduct would necessarily be less stringent."
[ SEBI Vs. CRB C apital Markets Ltd. (date of decision: December
05, 2019)] 70. Insofar as Noticee nos. 2 and 3 are concerned, it is noted
that both of them have been arraigned as Noticees by virtue of
their directorship with the Company during the IPO process of
the Company. It is noted that Noticee no. 2 has since expired
and copy of the death certificate has also been furnished in this
connection, hence, the proceedings in the present matter
against the Noticee no. 2 stands abated and therefore no
direction needs to be issued. 71. The Noticee no. 3 has not disputed his directorship with
the Company nor has claimed to be unaware/ignorant of the
charges made against the Comp any. It is also important to
mention that in the present proceeding; it is Noticee no. 3 who
has represented the Company before me. 72. I may state here that behind an artificial juristic person
like the Noticee Company in the present proceedings, it is the
minds and wisdom of certain natural persons who are at the
helm of the affairs of such corporate entity which actuate the
Company into its actions. All the deeds and misdeeds executed
in the name of the Company are actually attributable to these
natural persons, i.e., the Directors of the Comp any who have
superintendence and control over all the activities of a 146 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

company. In the present case, the fraudulent scheme that was
devised which led to achievement of the compliance with the Regulation 14 (1) of ICDR by way of funding the applications of
large number of share applicants under the IPO of the Company
to the extent of 51.66% its shares subscriptions and the way
the funds raised in the IPO were diverted to various entities
including funding group entities without utilizing the same for
the objects of the IPO it can be said to be the handiwork of the
Directors of the Company who managed the affairs of the
Company during the relevant period of time. 73. I note that various judicial pronouncements have
deliberated on the role and liabilities of directors for the
violations committed by the Company. One such case has been
decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of N.
Narayanan Vs. Adjudicating Officer, SEBI (2013) 12 SCC 152,
wherein it was observed that: "33. Company though a legal
entity cannot act by itself, it can act only through its Directors.
They are expected to exercise their power on behalf of the
company with utmost care, skill and diligence. This Court while
describing what is the duty of a Director of a company held in Official Liquidator v. P.A. Tendolkar (1973) 1 SCC 602 that a
Director may be shown to be placed and to have been so
closely and so long associated personally with the management
of the company that he will be deemed to be not merely
cognizant of but liable for fraud in the conduct of business of
the company even though no specific act of d ishonesty is
provide against him personally. He cannot shut his eyes to
what must be obvious to everyone who examines the affairs of
the company even superficially." Krishan Devi 74. In my view the facts and circumstances of the present
case leave no room for doubt that the fraudulent scheme
through which the Company got its IPO successfully funded,
subscribed and listed as well as the proceeds of IPO got
diverted for objects other than the stated ob jects of the IPO,
was actually conceived and implemented by the natural person
such as, Noticee no. 3 in the present case, who managed the
affairs of the Company at the given point of time. Therefore,
Noticee no. 3 being at the helm of affairs of the Company
during the relevant period, has to be held liable for being
involved (as a Director of the Company), in the said scheme
that ensured the listing of the securities of the Company in the
BSE-SME segment, Thus, Noticee no. 3 is equally liable
alongwith the Company, for the v iolations of provisions of law,
as already have been held above, to have been violated by the
Company. 75. I may add here that the purpose of putting a statutory
threshold of achieving subscription of at least 90% of shares
being offered under IPO, is apparently to restrict the entry of
issuers who may not have the competence enough to garner
interest of adequate number of investors and by keeping this
mandatory requirement, the interest of investors in the
proposed to be listed companies, is sought to be protected.
However, certain entities, as noted in the present case, by
resorting to devious means, have been able to cross the said
threshold of 90% and have accordingly projected an artificial
compliance of the said statutory requirement to the general
public at large. Such deceitful acts on the part of a yet to be
listed company is not acceptable as it carries dangerous
potential to create artificial inducement to the gullible
shareholders of the said Company as well as to the general 148 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

investors of the securities market, who are unaware of such
dubious schemes conceived by the Directors to somehow get
their companies listed on a stock exchange by short changing
the interest of the investors, who would easily fall prey to such
schemes and invest in the securities of the Company by relying
upon the mislead ing IPO documents. 76. As the fraudulent scheme employed by the Company now
stands exposed establishing the fact that the Company in the
ordinary course of its IPO exercise, had practically failed to
achieve the mandatory threshold subscrip tion limit of 90% of
shares offered under the IPO, it is essential that the
shareholders of the Company are given an opportunity to exit
from the Company, by its Promoters. Directions: 77. In view of the foregoing, I, in exercise of the powers
conferred upon me under Section 11(1) , 11(4) , and 11 B read
with Section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act, 1992, pass the following directions: Further, all open positions, if any, of the aforesaid
 debarred Noticees in the F&O segment of the stock
 exchange, are permitted to be squared off, irrespective
 of the restraint/prohibition imposed by this Order.
 vii. It is further clarified that during the period of the
 aforesaid restraint, the existing holding of securities,
 including the units of mutual funds shall remain under
 freeze. viii. The proceedings against Noticee no. 2 are abated and
 against Noticee no. 13 are dropped without any
 directions. 78. The Order shall come into force with the immediate effect. 79. A copy of this order shall be forwarded to the Noticees, all
the recognized stock exchange, depositories and registrar and
transfer agents for ensuring compliance with the above
directions. -Sd- 53. Further, we also find that Capital markets regulator SEBI
imposed a total penalty of Rs 40 lakh on five entities and three
individuals for indulging in fraud ulent trading activities in the
scrip of Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. An amount of
Rs 5 lakh each has been imposed on them. The entities and
individuals are collectively referred to as noticees. An
investigation was conducted by the regulator in the shares of
Esteem Bio Org anic Food Processing during the February 7,
2013 and July 31, 2015 period. It was found that a set of
connected entities were pushing up the price of the scrip
through unusual trades in such a manner so as to make a
positive contribution to the Last Traded Price (LTP) and
estab lishing New High Price (NHP). 54. The observations and find ing of fact arrived by the SEBI
clearly proves that the scrips of M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food
Processing Ltd. where manipulated in stock exchange and
fraudulent scheme was deployed by the said company rig ht
from year January 2013 during the period which the assessee
had entered into the transaction. This fact itself nails the
finding of the Assessing Officer which has discussed in detail
and also by the ld. CIT(A). It is immaterial that order of the
SEBI came in 2018 because the SEBI has analysed the entire
trad ing of shares from year 2013 and found that not only the
prices of the scrips of the said company were rigged but also
were involved in fraud ulent activities, which led to completely
debarred its trading in the stock exchange. Thus, this order of
SEBI clearly implicates, the entire transaction of purchase and
sale of shares and goes to prove that the transaction was not
genuine and corroborates the findings of the enquiry conducted
by the Income Tax Department. Krishan Devi 55. All these enquiries conclusively proved that the trades
have been manipulated and the gains or the losses made by the
beneficiaries cannot be said to be genuine. 56. Reliance is also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in the case of SEBI Vs CRB Capital markets vide order dated 05.12.2019 held that clearly given
the manner in which fraudulent acts are undertaken under
deceit and camouflage with an affairs of the company/trust
etc., the standards of proof required to prove such fraudulent
conduct would necessarily be less stringent. 57. This ratio of the Hon'ble High Court is squarely applicable
to the facts of this case where every action of the assessee is
pointed out to the violations of the provisions of laws of stock
market as well as Income Tax. The mere fact that payments
have been received through cheque cannot give any credence
so as to genuineness of the transactions. 58. Taking cue from the judgment of the Hon'b le Delhi High
Court in the case of PCIT-7 Vs. Bikram Singh in ITA No.
55/2017 order dated 25.08.2017, we hold that the transactions
in the present appeal are yet another example of the constant
use of the deception of stock market transaction to bring
unaccounted money into banking channels. This device of stock
transactions of unworthy stocks with no profits continues to
plague the legitimate economy of our country. As seen from the
facts narrated above, the transactions herein clearly do not
inspire confidence as being genuine and are shrouded in
mystery, as to why the so-called transactions lead to exorbitant
returns which are made tax free. Krishan Devi 59. The Hon'ble Calcutta Hig h Court in the case of CIT Vs
Korlav Trading Company Ltd . 232 ITR 280 and CIT Vs Precision finance P. Ltd. 208 ITR 495 had observed and held that mere
filing of confirmation and transaction throug h the banking
channel is not enough to prove the genuineness. 60. The Hon'ble High Court in the case of C IT Vs. Maithan
International 375 ITR 123 (Cal) has held that "Assessing Officer
could not accept genuineness merely on the basis of bank
statement. 61. Further, the Hon'ble Delhi Hig h Court in the case of C IT
Vs. Vikram Singh 85 Taxmann 104 observed that even if the
transaction is made throug h cheque it cannot be presumed to
be genuine. These observations are more so valid when
weighed against the p lethora of evidences and incongruence
brought out by the revenue to prove the not so genuine of
these transactions entered by the assessee. 62. With regard to the arguments of the ld. AR that how
strong ever is the suspicion it cannot be a reason to make
addition. The ld. AR also argued that the strong susp icion
cannot overtake the facts on record and the judicial
pronouncements. 63. On this issue we hold that preponderance of the evidence
is one type of evidentiary standard used in a burden of
proof analysis. Under the preponderance standard, the burden
of proof is met when the party with the burd en convinces
the fact finder that there is a greater chance that the claim is
true. This is the burden of proof in a civil trial. The theory of
"preponderance of probability ‟ is applied to weigh the
evidences of either side and draw a conclusion in favour of a 154 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

party which has more favourable factors in his side. The
conclusions have to be drawn on the basis of certain admitted
facts and materials and not on the basis of presumption of facts
that might go ag ainst assessee. In situations like this case, one
may fall into realm of "preponderance of probability‟ where
there are many probable factors, some in favour of the
assessee and some may go against the assessee, but the
probable factors have to be weighed on material facts so
collected. Prima facie, it may appear to be a case made on
preponderance of probabilities but not beyond reasonab le
doubt. However, in this case a deeper examination of the facts
reveal that in a scam of such massive scale many players and
layers involved hence the judgments of Hon'b le Ap ex Court that
the standards of proof required to prove such fraudulent
conduct would necessarily be less stringent is squarely
applicable and in the instant case the evidences cannot be said
to be even less stringent rather they more strong . 64. We are certainly not on the probability theory while
dealing the issue before us and certainly we have not been
carried away by the sing le point of profits earned. The facts
have been examined holistically with reference to enquiries and
the entire operation of the stocks, method of investment,
regularity of the investments, enquiries cond ucted by SEBI ,
evidences produced by the assessee to support the claim. While
we examine the enormous evid ences, we find that the only
evidence submitted by the assessee was that the amounts have
been received by cheque and hence the genunity of the
transactions have proved beyond doubt. Keep ing in view the
judgments of Hon'ble Delhi H igh Court in the case of CIT Vs.
Vikram Singh 85 Taxmann 104, C IT Vs. Maithan International
375 ITR 123 (Cal ) (supra), Hon'ble Delhi H igh Court in the case 155 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

of PCIT-7 Vs. Bikram Singh in ITA No. 55/2017 order dated
25.08.2017 (sup ra), Hon'b le Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT Vs Korlav Trading Company Ltd. 232 ITR 280 and C IT Vs
Precision finance P. Ltd. 208 ITR 495 (supra), in the instant
case where they have been multiple evidences collected by the
revenue, the claim of the assessee that she is a passive
beneficiary of the entire operation without her involvement or
role cannot be accepted. At this juncture, it is worthwhile to
mention, the Hon'ble Apex Court judgment dated 08.02.2018 in
the case of SEBI Vs Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd . wherein it was
observed that based on the huge price variation of the
transactions it will be too naïve to hold that the transactions
are throug h screen based trading and hence anonymous. The
Hon'ble Court held that such conclusion would be overlooking
the prior meeting of minds involving synchronization of buy and
sale orders and not negotiated deals. The Hon'ble Apex Court
held that such impugned transactions are manip ulative,
deceptive device to create loss or profit. Thus, on going
through the entire factum of the case, we hold that on merits
also the profits earned by the assessee cannot be said to be
genuine. 65. The ld. Counsel for the assessee has much harped on the
judgment of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of the
assessee (supra) stating that the facts and ratio laid down
therein is clearly applicable in the present case also. We have
already clarified in our foregoing paragraph 46 that the facts
involved in the present case are different and why the said
judgment will not be a b inding p recedence on the facts of the
present case. For the sake of ready reference, the observation
and the finding of the Hon'b le High Court while upholding the
order of the Tribunal are as under: However, this is quit e diff erent fr om the f actual matrix at hand.
Similarly, the cas e of S umati Dayal v. CIT (s upra) too turns on its
own s pecific fac ts. The above-stated cas es, thus , ar e of no
assista nce to t he c ase sought t o be c anvass ed by the Revenue. 13. The lear ned I TAT, bei ng the last fact-fi ndi ng authority, on the
basis of the evidenc e brought on rec ord, has rightly come to the
conclusi on t hat the l ower tax authorities are not able to sus tai n the
additi on without any c ogent material on rec ord. We thus find no
perversity i n t he Impugned Order. 14. In this vi ew of the matter, no question of la w, muc h l ess a
subst antial ques tion of la w arises for our c onsiderati on." 66. First of all, the Hon'ble High Court did not find any
perversity on the find ing of fact arrived by the Tribunal based
on evidences placed on record and deficient enq uiry of the AO.
Secondly, there was no independent source of fact to
corroborate the finding of the AO which was purely based on
uncorroborated enquiry by the Investigation Wing . Here in this
case, the most crucial fact brought on record is the order of the
SEBI and finding arrived by the SEBI as to how the scrips of 159 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. was rigged and
this company was involved in fraudulent scheme only for giving
accommodation entries. This finding itself distinguishes the
case before the Hon'ble High Court. The Hon'ble High Court has
not laid down any principle albeit has confirmed the finding of
ITAT based on facts which we have already and held as clearly
distinguishab le. Accordingly, reliance p laced by the ld. Counsel
on the said judgment is not relevant. 67. Thus, on going throug h the entire facts and circumstances
of the case, it can be concluded based on the following snap
shot that transactions entered by the assessee are not genuine. 1. A tangible and reliable information has been availab le
 with the Assessing Officer to initiate proceed ing s u/s
 148 of the Act. 2. Proper reasons have been recorded before issue of the
 notice. 3. The reasons recorded are related to the information
 received 4. The information received and the reasons
 recorded pertain to escapement of income. 4. The Assessing Officer had reasons to believe based on
 the information received which have been duly recorded. 5. The Assessing Officer has right jurisd iction to issue the
 notice and the same has been d uly served as p er the
 requirements of the Income Tax Act . 6. There has been live nexus between the information
 received, reasons to believe and the reasons recorded. 7. What is required for issue of notices, the prima facie
 reasons to believe as per the ratio laid down by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Apex Court has also 160 ITA No. 6356/Del/2019 Krishan Devi

 held that formation of belief by the Assessing Officer is
 within the realm of subjective satisfaction. 8. In the instant case, the approval given u/s 151(1)
 cannot be faulted in accordance with the judgment of
 Hon'ble High Court (HP) wherein it was held that the
 Court is satisfied that by record ing in his own writing
 the words: "Yes, I am satisfied", the mandate of Section
 151(1) of the Act as far as the ap proval of the Addl. C IT
 was concerned, stood fulfilled. 9. There has been an independent application of mind that
 the Assessing Officer which deciphered from the reasons
 recorded by the Assessing Officer. 10. In the backdrop of the facts of the case, the following
 judgments have also relied upon: 11. The price of shares has been risen from Rs.26.50 to
 Rs.392.00 (average) any span of 13 months. 12. The company had no profit/ meager profit to demand
 such price. 13. The assessee is not a regular trader investing in the
 stock market transactions. 14. In the entire period of 5 years, there was only highest
 spurt for the smallest period wherein the sale took place
 in the entire period between 2010 to 2015 as depicted
 in the graph above showing typical bell shape. Krishan Devi 15. The shares were purchased of market from private
 party. 16. No iota of due d iligence v iz. the advisor, the analysis of
 fundamentals, the profits, the assets undertaken by the
 assessee. 17. The order of the SEBI dated13.03.2019 and 22.12.2020
 proving the manipulation in trad ing of the scrips. 18. The undeniab le proof of involvement of the broker ISF
 Securities found by the SEBI. 19. Order dated 23.12.2020 of Metrop olitan Stock Exchange
 enquiry ind icting the involvement of operation in the
 case of M/s Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. 20. Levy of penalty by SEBI in fraudulent trading activities
 in the scrip of Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. 68. Hence, we find no merit on the arguments of ld. AR on the
issue of reopening of the case u/s 148 of the I.T. Act as well as
on merits of the issue. In the result, the appeal of the assessee
is dismissed. 69. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 04/01/2022.