1.	The bail application arises out of first information report No. 255 of 2023, dated 08.06.2003, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120B IPC, Noida Sector-20, District Gautam Buddh Nagar. 2.	Mr. Harish Yadav, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the applicant - Gurmeet Singh Batra @ Sahil in Criminal Misc. Bail Application Nos.43258 of 2024 has summarised his arguments in the following manner: 3.	Mr. Manish Goel, learned Additional Advocate General, assisted by Mr. Nitesh Srivastava, learned AGA for the State, submits that nucleus of the entire issue is that there is a Press Reporter, who says that his PAN Card was misused and on the basis of his PAN Card two Firms were registered. Thus, offence under the provisions of IPC stands committed. On the basis of these fake firms, a transaction is being done with the Company, of which Sanjay Dhingra is a Director. Each and every transaction is separate set, for this they have to submit separate return. Applicant has committed offence of separate nature, so GST Rules will not apply, but it will not take them out of the offence that has been committed under Indian Penal Code , 18602. 4.	Elaborating the points, learned Additional Advocate General has placed following arguments: 5.	As argued by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, the following material has been collected to show the involvement of the accused persons including the applicant in the present case: (xxviii) In C.D. Parcha No. 78, the Investigating Officer mentions that mobile number used in the registration of GST firm YOYO Traders i.e. 9873797648 was found to be used in mobile having IMEI No. 862625043825695, the said mobile was recovered at the initial stage from the accused Deepak Murjani. (xxix) C.D. Parcha No. 79 shows that I.O. verified about whereabouts of the company but found the company YOYO Traders non-existent, further it was revealed that at the office of M/s Good Health Industries Pvt. Ltd. situated at F-82, Shivaji Palace, Rajauri Garden, Delhi, accused Sanjay Dhingra is not present since 15-20 days and the name of the Company has been changed to Live Light. Thereafter, statements of employees of the Company were recorded. They stated to have never seen Sukhveer Yadav and Rajesh Yadav who are also said to be Director of M/s Good Health and they use to report to Sanjay Dhingra who is owner of the said firm. Further, the complicity of Kanika Dhingra and Mayank Dhingra came to light. (xxx) In C.D. Parcha No. 81 the I.O. recorded arrest of Ashish Allavadi along with the recovery of driving licence of accused Mannan Singhal and voter I.D. of Baldev. In his statement, Ashish stated that he used to bring payment of GST commissions and he has confessed the names of his cousin brother Amit alias Montu, Arjit, Anchit, Atul, Mannan, Baldev, Nandlal, Ajay, Ishwar, Sanjay Garg, Gaurav Singhal, Preetam alias Chacha and others in the commission of the offence. (xxxi) C.D. Parcha No. 82 shows the entry of bank account of accused persons wherein concerned GST ITC transaction was found, as such the accounts were requested to be ceased by the Bank under Section 102(1) Cr.P.C. (xxxii) In C.D. Parcha No. 84 the I.O. shows arrest of accused Praveen Kumar with the recovery of mobile phone, Debit Card of Atul Gupta and two tax invoices. In his confessional statement he admitted complicity in the offence with other accused persons including Rajiv Jindal. He further disclosed the fact that with regard to the fake invoices GST Department has initiated proceedings against the accused, in which penalty of Rs. 12 lacs was recovered from the company. (xxxiii) C.D. Parcha No. 85 shows that IMEI of the mobile phones recovered from the accused persons was got run on surveillance of concerned service providers, from where it was found that those IMEI numbers were used in 83 mobile number/ SIMs. (xxxiv) C.D. Parcha No. 98 refers about the report of one of the DGGI Zonal Units i.e. DGGI Gurugram Zonal Unit. It reveals that from the list of about 2600 fake GST firms which was recovered from the accused persons, out of these 20 companies were found to be common, by which fake ITC claims were received. Further, Annexure-1 of the said report reveals that from these 20 firms, by way of fake tax invoices about Rs. 16,91,74,236/- was misappropriated as a tax claim as such huge loss to the State Exchequer was caused. From Annexure No. 2 it is revealed that fake ITC claims of Rs. 8,57,60,146/- were fraudulently claimed from the fake GST firms. Further, Annexure-3 discloses that fake ITC of Rs. 226.45 crores were claimed in collusion with the accused Sanjay Jindal and Ajay Sharma. The report of DGGI is enclosed along with the said Parcha. (xxxv) C.D. Parcha No. 105 shows the arrest of accused Rahul Nigam, Piyush Kumar Gupta and Dilip Sharma. They confessed that they use to create fake GST firms and invoices for the accused persons Arjit Goyal alias Adarsh Goyal, Anchit, Pradeep, Vikas Dabas and told that they are somewhere outside but they create fake GST firms and fake invoices on the email i.d. of [email protected] which is still logged-in on his laptop, wherein many fake GST firms are uploaded. Whereafter, 2 boxes containing 40 stamps, 1 box with 2 bank passbooks and 19 various bank' cheque books, 1 box containing 17 smart mobile phones, 1 box with key-pad mobile phones, 1 box with 20 pendrives, 1 box with one POS machine, and 45 SIM Cards, 12 PAN Cards, 10 Aadhaar Cards and 29 Credit Cards, 1000 fake documents relating to GST firms were recovered and sealed. From the confessional statements of arrested accused, complicity of accused Sachin, Babar, Parmeshwar and Nishant Agarwal came into light. (xxxvi) C.D. Parcha No. 107 shows the entry of bank account of accused persons wherein concerned GST ITC transaction was found, as such the accounts were requested to be ceased by the Bank under Section 102(1) Cr.P.C. (xxxvii) C.D. Parcha No. 119 shows the arrest of accused Vikas Dabas and in his confessional statement he disclosed that he along with other persons, at the office of Arjit, Anchit and Pradeep Goyal, used to transfer the said GST firms bills to different places and receive commission thereof. Further, he disclosed the family of Archit and Anchit is mainly involved in this offence and all other accused are involved in different aspects of commission of crime. (xxxviii) C.D. Parcha No. 125 (09.03.2024) reveals that against the absconding accused (1) Anchit Goyal, (2) Pradeep Goyal, (3) Arjit Goyal, (4) Baldev alias Balli, (5) Rohit Nagpal proceedings of Non-Bailable Warrants, declaration under Sections 82 and 83 Cr.P.C. have been completed and lookout circular (LOC) has been issued as such there is less chances of arrest of the mentioned accused so charge sheet was filed against them under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC. Meaning thereby that accused have fled away from the proceedings of law, hence, shows their guilt. (xxxix) C.D. Parcha No. 126 (11.03.2024) shows that during the course of investigation accused Kunal Mehta was in judicial custody as such vide judicial permission the statement of accused Kunal Mehta alias Goldi was recorded in jail, wherein he stated to effect the recovery of forged documents from the office of Balli situated in Rohini, Delhi. (xl) C.D. Parcha No. 128 (15.03.2024) indicates the recovery of documents relating to fake GST firm from accused Kunal Mehta alias Goldi. (xli) C.D. Parcha No. 131 (21.03.2024) shows that during investigation it was found that accused Ajay Sharma and Sanjay Jindal, who were arrested by DGGI, Gurugram Unit amongst 8 other persons and also involved in the registration of 2600 fake GST firms, whose information was provided to the police by DGGI Ghaziabad Unit, are in jail, as such the statement of the accused persons were recorded wherein they have confessed their complicity in the present offence and requested the court below for allowing the remand of the accused in the present case crime under Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B IPC. (xlii) In C.D. Parcha No. 135, a letter from DGGI Delhi Unit is submitted by the IO which reveals that the accused Tushar Mehta who was arrested by DGGI Delhi Unit, was involved in recipient of fraudulent ITC to the tune of Rs. 24 crores on the strength of purported invoices issued by the fake GST firm M/s MKJ Enterprises which is a part of Noida fake invoice syndicate. (xliii) In C.D. Parcha No. 139 (10.04.2024) shows that during investigation it was found that accused Tushar Gupta, who was arrested by DGGI, Delhi Unit amongst 8 persons and also involved in the registration of 2600 fake GST firms, is in jail, as such the statement of the accused persons were recorded wherein they have confessed their complicity in the present offence and requested the court below for allowing the remand of the accused in the present case crime under Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 120B IPC. (xliv) C.D. Parcha No. 146 (01.05.2024) indicates that the accused Sanjay Dhingra along with Mayank Dhingra & Kanika Dhingra were arrested by the police from Delhi on 30.04.2024. At their instance/ possession, 7 mobile phones, 1 tablet, 6 cars, cash of Rs. 1,41,000/- were recovered. Subsequently, in their confessional statement, Sanjay Dhingra along with accused have confessed their guilt in the alleged offence. Moreover, accused Sanjay Dhingra disclosed that fake GST firms were prepared by him along with Deepak Murjhani and others and it is important to point out that Kanika Dhingra who is wife of Sanjay Dhingra has stated that through M/s Radha Krishna Marketing about Rs. 16,35,00,000/- were transferred to her saving bank account. Copy of recovery memo was served upon the accused receiving their signatures thereon. (xlv) C.D. Parcha No.149 (03.05.2024) shows that mobile phones and tablet which were recovered from the daughter of Deepak Murjhani, namely, Dolsy Murjhani, were sent to Forensic Science Laboratory, Ghaziabad for examination. (xlvi) C.D. Parcha No. 156 (13.05.2024) reveals that the data relating to fake GST firms was shared with DGGI Unit, Jaipur, Rajasthan, wherein on 30.08.2023 names of Rishabh Jain, Shubham Jindal and Tarun Jindal came to light in the present offence. The report of DGGI indicates that the computerised data obtained discloses that aforesaid accused persons have received ITC benefits by way of forged GST firms by creating fake bills and invoices. (xlvii) C.D. Parcha No. 158 (19.05.2024) refers the arrest of accused Rishabh Jain and Tarun Jindal from House No. 105, Prashant Vihar, Rohini, Sector-14 and from their possession recovery of 2 mobile phones, 1 laptop and list of fake GST firms was made. In their confessional statement, said accused stated that they along with Deepak Murjhani, Yaseen, Anchit and Arjit and others have created these forged and fabricated GST firms. In the same parcha, it has been mentioned that accused Shubham Jindal was also arrested from Rajasthan by another team on 18.05.2024, from whose possession 3 mobile phones, 2 laptops and a list of fake GST firms were recovered. It is mentioned that copy of recovery memo was given to accused persons. (xlviii) C.D. Parcha No. 161 (25.05.2024) shows that confessional statements of accused Anshul Goyal were recorded, wherein he has stated the complicity of the accused persons naming them. (xlix) C.D. Parcha No. 162 (26.05.2024) reveals that a report from DGGI, Coimbatore which reveals that names of Smt. Suganya Prabhu and Sri Prabhuparam Shivam came to the light in the complicity of offence, showing huge amount was misappropriated through ITC. (l) C.D. Parcha No.167 (23.06.2024) details about the arrest of Smt. Suganya Prabhu, her confessional statement was recorded which discloses the complicity in the present case. (li) C.D. Parcha No.172 (27.06.2024) shows the arrest of accused Babar Khan and recovery of forged tax invoices and other incriminating material and thereafter confessional statement of the accused was recorded. 6.	Learned counsel for the State has argued that the complicity of the applicant along with other accused was unravelled by complete chain of evidence and the name of firms AKS Traders and YOYO Traders were disclosed which were connected with the firm M/s Good Health Industries Private Limited, which was ultimately involved in the entire scam. These firms, namely, AKS Traders and YOYO Traders, during investigation, were found to be non-existing and fake as they were registered by procuring fake and fabricated documents by the applicant along with other accused persons. 7.	While assisting the Court, Mr. Rishi Kumar, learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel submits that the present case begins with lodging of FIR by Saurabh Dwivedi, wherein allegations for fake GST registration applied in his name with PAN No. AUSPD7067N by anonymous person and got two GST firms registered, thus, the entire case begins with fake GST registration using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant. During the investigation it was found that larger nexus works for having benefit of input tax credit. The offence has been committed in an organized and synchronized manner, wherein fake and bogus invoices have been created to cover the money trail and goods supply as well as money transactions are there with forged firms. Establishing the entire chain, the accused persons have been found connected with each other and in one or the other way they have been benefited by fake GST registration shown by using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant. 8.	The backbone of goods and services regime is Input Tax Credit. Under the GST regime, ITC follows supply chain not only intrastate but also interstate supply. 9.	It has been established through investigation that crime has been committed by the accused persons by making fraudulent firm by using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card, Mobile Number for creating fake firms and through fake invoices, they breached supply chain of ITC and got benefit through fake gains which have been created by them. Thus, in so many words, the said case is started with registration of fake firms using PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of the informant for consequential benefits of claiming ITC. 10.	The next finding in the case of recovery and use of fake PAN Cards has to be understood by analysing the purpose of issuing a PAN Card. The PAN card is issued to keep a track of financial activity of a person and a PAN is integral for all forms of payments. A PAN Card number is located to a needful and contains information such as Aadhaar number, date of birth and address. Similar is the use of Aadhaar Card which is now linked with the account of individual in favour of whom it has been issued. The PAN Card contains details of Aadhaar also. The PAN Card can be used for availing utility connections like electricity, telephone, LPG and internet. Under GST, a registered taxable person is required to issue an invoice containing all relevant information, such as the GSTIN, tax divergence and so on. If a taxpayer issues an invoice that is missing critical information, the invoice may be considered a fake GST invoice. Thus, by forging fake GST number using PAN Card of the informant fake GST invoices have been created for financial benefit, thus, the very basis of the present case is forgery done by the accused persons, on the basis of which financial gains in terms of ITC have been availed by them. 11.	The learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel, in order to show how use of PAN Card in such a manner, is detrimental not only to the interest of the person whose PAN Card has been used but is also detrimental in national interest, has relied upon a judgement of Bombay High Court in the case of UTI Infrastructure Technology and Services Limited v. Extra Tech World and Ors.18, wherein the Court has observed thus: 12.	Thus, the offence in the present case is affecting the interest of public at large. 13.	I have considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 14. Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 deals with the relevancy of information received from a person accused of any offence while in the custody of the police officer. The Section provides an exception to the general rule that confessions made to the police officers are inadmissible in evidence. From the aforesaid, the scope of Section 27 of the Act, 1872 is that it applies to any information given by the person accused of an offence, which leads to the discovery of a fact. The Section states that "so much information" given by the accused that distinctly relates to the fact discovered may be proved. The exception to rule of admissibility is that normally confessions made to a police officer or while in police custody are inadmissible under Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act, however, Section 27 allows for an exception where information received from the accused leads to discovery of a fact. The Section makes only that part of the statement relevant, which directly leads to the discovery of facts. It does not make the entire statement of the accused inadmissible. 15.	The condition for applicability of the aforesaid Section is that the person giving the information must be an accused in police custody. The information provided must lead directly to the discovery of the material fact and only that portion of information which directly leads to the discovery is admissible. For example, if an accused, while in custody, reveals the location of a weapon used in the crime and upon searching that location, the weapon is indeed found, the part of statement where accused described the location of weapon is admissible in courts as evidence. 16.	The rationale behind Section 27 of the Act, 1872 is to strike a balance between protection of the accused from coercive confession and the necessity of law enforcement to discover fact related to a crime. The courts have interpreted Section 27 in various judgements, often emphasizing that it should be applied only to the extent necessity to prove discovery of a fact. The Hon'ble Apex Court has also laid down guidelines to ensure that the information obtained is not the result of any compulsion or coercion. 17. In the case of Pulukuri Kotayya and others v. King Emperor19 , which is a landmark judgement, the Apex Court has explained the scope of Section 27 of the Act. In the said case it has been held that the phrase "distinctly related to the fact thereby discovered" is crucial, meaning only that part of statement that led directly to the discovery is admissible, and not the entire statement. In the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Deoman Upadhyaya20 , the Apex Court has reiterated the aforesaid. Thus, Section 27 is a significant provision under the Indian Evidence Act providing an exception to the inadmissibility of custodial confessions. It allows admissibility of the specific information that leads directly to the discovery of a fact, balancing the needs of criminal investigation with the rights of the accused. 18.	In the present case, after registration of the FIR when forgery had been done by using the Aadhaar Card and PAN Card of the informant, fake GST firms were registered, Investigating Officer proceeded on the information as provided by a secret informer and arrested two accused who disclosed about the office where work of the firm was being done. On the aforesaid information of the arrested accused persons, the Investigating Officer reached the office premises, wherein he found other persons working for the firm of the arrested accused persons. Laptops, mobiles, SIM Cards, fake invoices were recovered, thus, discovering such fact which connected them with the main accused who had got registered the fake firms and the consequential forgery or theft of GST was found. Thus, that part of the discovery of fact is admissible as per Section 27 of the Act. 19.	The principal of "bail is the rule, jail is the exception" is a fundamental concept in criminal law, where the criminal justice system recognizes the importance of personal liberty and the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. This principal emphasizes that an accused should ordinarily be granted bail unless there are compelling reasons to detain him in custody. But there are exceptions to the aforesaid principal. While, the general rule favours granting bail, there are several exceptions where courts may deny bail due to specific circumstances. These exceptions are based on factors that indicate a potential risk to society, the judicial process, or the investigation. Some points that should be kept in mind while granting bail are; the nature and gravity of the offence, likelihood of flight risk, risk of tampering with the evidence of witnesses, repeated offenders or habitual criminals, danger to society or the victim, possibility of committing another offence while on bail, interference with justice, specific statutory provisions like the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 , Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), lastly economic offence and white collar crimes. 20.	The present case relates to economic offences, such as large scale fraud, money laundering and corruption, are often viewed seriously because they affect the economic fabric of the society. The Courts may deny bail in such cases especially if the accused holds a position of influence or power. In the present case, money trail of crores, which affects the society at large scale, is involved which started from registration of fake firms by using Aadhaar and PAN Cards of the informant who had not applied for such registration. 21.	It has been informed in the case of accused Rajiv Jindal that discharge application of one of the accused has been rejected and it shows that the charges are proved and once on the basis of material collected chargesheet has been submitted, discharge is rejected, the case of bail is not made out in economic offence where money trail of crores has been found which is a result of registration of fake firms. Offence under the IPC is made out and such accused cannot be dealt with easy hands. In the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 439, the Supreme Court has held thus: 22.	The Apex Court in the case of Nimmagadda Prasad v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 466 has formulated some important factors to be taken into consideration while considering bail applications. Relevant paragraph of the said judgement are quoted herein below: 23.	Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Directorate of Enforcement v. M. Gopal Reddy and another , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1862 has held that in the economic offences which are having great impact on the society, the court must be slow in exercising discretion under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. 24. In the case of Tahir Hussain v. The Assistant Director Enforcement Directorate21 , the Court has observed that the accused Tahir Hussain was involved in the acts of cheating/ falsification/ forgery of documents which resulted in fraudulent removal of money from the accounts of the three companies (M/s SEAPL, ECPL and EGSPL). On the directions and instructions of Tahir Hussain, huge amount of money was withdrawn from the accounts of the said three companies by way of transfer of funds to entry operators and bogus companies. Tahir Hussain was ultimate beneficiary of the laundered money which he used for fulfilment of ulterior motives. Fake and bogus invoices were created to cover the money trail. 25.	The same situation is there in the facts of this case where the crime has started with registration of fake GST firms by using Aadhaar and PAN Card of the informant which amounts to forgery, therefore, offence under the relevant sections is made out and these offences have been properly investigated by the Investigating Officer after lodging of FIRs. The evidences have been collected from the GST Department also. 26.	In the case of Perumal Raja @ Perumal v. State, Rep. By Inspector of Police22, the Court has gone to the extent of clarifying phrase "discovery of a fact" by saying that the same includes the object found, the place from which it was produced and the knowledge of the accused as to its existence, therefore, factum of discovery combines both the physical object as well as mental consciousness of the informant accused in relation thereto. The same has been stated in Paragraph Nos. 22 & 23 of the said judgement, which are thus: 27.	While considering an appeal against the bail cancellation order, the Apex Court in the case of Gurcharan Singh v. State (Delhi Administration )24, has held that there cannot be an inexorable formula in the matter of granting bail. Paragraph-29 of the said judgement is thus: 28.	The Apex Court in the case of Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi and another25, has held that while granting bail, the court has to keep in mind nature of accusations, nature of evidence in support thereof, severity of punishment which conviction will entail, the character, behaviour, means and standing of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, larger interest of the public or State and similar other considerations. Relevant paragraph no. 8 of the said judgement is reproduced hereunder: 29.	Law on consideration of the Court to grant or refusal of bail has been settled by the Apex Court in a catena of decisions. In the case of Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan26 , the Supreme Court has held that the court granting bail should exercise its discretion in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course. Paragraph-11 of the said judgement is being quoted below: 30.	In the case of State of U.P. Through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi29, the Supreme Court has formulated eight points for consideration of bail application. It would be apposite to quote the relevant paragraph no. 18 of the said judgement: 31.	The Apex Court has, in the case of P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement30 , held that precedent of another case alone will not be the basis for either grant or refusal of bail though it may have bearing on principle and the consideration will have to be on case-to-case basis on facts involved therein and securing the presence of the accused to stand trial. Paragraph-23 of the said judgement reads thus: 32.	Recently the Apex Court in the case of Satendra Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and another31, has outlined the considerations by the Court in the matter of grant or refusal of bail. 33.	As regards the submission made by learned counsel for the applicant regarding parity, this Court is of the opinion that Apex Court has clarified that parity not to be an absolute right. The Court must access each individual's role and circumstance before deciding bail applications. In several judgements of Supreme Court it has been emphasized that while considering parity, the Court must focus on the specific role and involvement of accused in the alleged offence. It has also been noted that parity is not the law. While applying the principle of parity, the Court is required to focus upon the role attached to the accused whose application is under consideration. Therefore, principle of parity can be considered in bail applications, however it does not ensure guaranteed bail. The Courts are obligated to conduct a thorough evaluation of each accused's circumstances to uphold justice and maintain integrity of legal process. Therefore, the arguments as placed by learned counsel for the applicant has no legs to stand. 34.	Having gone through the submissions of learned counsel for the parties, nature of accusation of offence, role of the applicant as well as reasons given in judgement passed in Bail Application Nos.53010 of 2023, 25547 of 2024, 37086 of 2024, 33637 of 2024 and 44571 of 2024, I do not find it a fit case for granting bail. 35.	The bail application preferred by the applicant -Gurmeet Singh Batra @ Sahil, is rejected. Order Date :-11.12.2024 
 
Rahul Goswami/Kalp Nath