1. The petitioner has approached this Court seeking grant of anticipatory bail in

 a case registered against him vide FIR No. 124 dated 24.4.2018 under Sections 420 / 406 / 120-B IPC and Section 66 of Information Technology Act,

 2000 at Police Station Sector-17, Chandigarh. 2. The FIR was registered at the instance of Amardeep Singh wherein it has

 been alleged that the accused namely Amit Bhardwaj, Ajay Bhardwaj,

 Ashish Dabas, Pankaj Adlakha, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Vikaas Kadian

 connived with each other to dupe the complainant and made him part with

 his hard earned money running into lacs by pursuading him to invest him in

 a Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) ponzi scheme Gainbitcoin, marketed by

 M/s Variable Tech, Singapore founded by Amit Bhardwaj. It is alleged that

 the complainant and other similarly situated persons were promised a

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 26-02-2020 06:08:37 ::: 2 CRM-M-53194-2019 (O&M)

lucrative return of 10 percent per month continuously for a period of 18

months on their investments made in said 'bitcoins' (crypto currency). The

accused had assured the complainant that their company was an authorized

miners of Bitcoins in India, having pan-India operations and that the entire

business was legal. Thus, the complainant was induced to believe by the

petitioner Vikaas Kadian and other accused that his investment would yield

180 per cent profit within 18 months from the date of investment. It is

alleged that the accused Amit Bhardwaj gained the confidence of the

complainant while representing that his companies were constantly doing

Bitcoin mining and that he was CEO of M/s Amaze Mining and Block Chain

Research Limited and GB Miners and had a majority stake in Mineral

Mining Company in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The accused further

claimed to be India's first Bitcoin e-wallet called 'Coinbank'. Upon such

assurances and representations made by accused including the petitioner, the

complainant registered himself on the website of the accused through

www.gainbitcoin.com and the complainants Amardeep Singh and Manoj

Garg invested an amount of ` 30 lacs and ` 15.5. lacs for purchase of

Bitcoins. However, the complainant did not receive any single Bitcoin

(BTC) in return for their investment. It is further alleged that subsequently,

the accued induced the complainant to invest in another crypto currency

called M-CAP, which was in the nature of a mutual fund for crypto

currencies, which according to the accused was likely to gain more

popularity than Bitcoins and give much higher yields and financial gains. It

is alleged that the accused then changed the contract conditions and further

made the complainant invest further in one 'Lifelong Etherium Mining

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 26-02-2020 06:08:37 ::: 3 CRM-M-53194-2019 (O&M)

 Contract' for at least 24 months, which was stated to get maximum returns

 but even the said promise did not materalize. The complainant, thus, alleged

 that he had been duped of huge amount by the accused. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he has falsely been

 implicated in the present case and that even a bare perusal of the FIR would

 show that it is Amit Bhardwaj who is the principal accused and that the

 petitioner is not stated to have been entrusted with any amount. It has

 further been submitted that since a co-accused namely Sanchit Allagh has

 already been granted bail vide order dated 17.9.2018 passed in CRM-M-

 39721 of 2018, the petitioner also deserves the concession of bail on ground

 of parity. 4. Opposing the petition, the learned State counsel has submitted that the

 petitioner is specifically named as one of the accused in FIR and infact there

 is also specific allegation against the petitioner that he had approached the

 complainant and had held out a representation that investing in Bitcoins was

 very lucrative and that in these circumstances, no special case for grant of

 anticipatory bail is made out, given the fact that it is a pan-India scam

 involving crores of rupees. The learned State counsel has further submitted

 that the petitioner cannot derive any advantage from the order granting

 regular bail to Sanchit Allagh since he not only had offered to deposit an

 amount of ` 45,30,000/-, which was stated to have been received by him but

 was not even specifically named in the FIR unlike the present petitioner

 against whom there are direct allegations in the FIR itself. The learned

 State counsel has further submitted that in any case the conduct of the

 petitioner in having absconded and having been declared a proclaimed

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 26-02-2020 06:08:37 ::: 4 CRM-M-53194-2019 (O&M)

 offender by the trial Court disentitles him to grant of bail, especially in view

 of ratio of judgment reported as 2015(3) RCR (Criminal) 274 Iqbal Singh

 Sabharwal Veresus State of Punjab and another. 5. I have considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. A perusal

 of the FIR would show that the petitioner is specifically named in the FIR

 wherein there are specific allegations to the effect that the petitioner as well

 as other accused held out a representation to the complainant of huge returns

 on their investments in Bitcoin, which infact was a false representation

 inasmuch as the complainant was neither returned the invested amount, nor

 given the alleged huge returns. During the course of investigation, it has

 been found that the Bitcoin scam is a Pan-India scam wherein innocent

 gullible investors have been deprived of their hard earned savings

 amounting to ` 2,100 crores. In Chandigarh alone, the investors have been

 deprived of an amount of ` 6 crores. 6. Given the enormity of the scam, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is

 duly warranted. In any case, the conduct of the petitioner leading to his

 being declared as proclaimed offender would disentitle him for grant of

 concession of anticipatory bail. The petitioner cannot seek any advantage

 from order dated 17.9.2018, passed in the case of co-accused Sanchit Allagh

 since apart from the fact that the said Sanchit Allagh is not named in the

 FIR, the said order pertains to grant of regular bail wherein the said Sanchit

 Allagh had already joined investigation, whereas the petitioner who is

 proclaimed offender seeks anticipatory bail. 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 26-02-2020 06:08:37 ::: 5 CRM-M-53194-2019 (O&M) 7. In view of the discussion made above, this Court does not find any special

 case for grant of anticipatory bail. The petition is sans any merits and is

 hereby dismised. 8. It is, however, clarified that none of the observations made above shall be

 taken to be an expression on merits of the main case.