The captioned appeals filed by different assessees pertaining to the
Assessment Year (in short "AY") 2014-2015 are directed against separate
orders passed u/s 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short the "Act") by
ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeal)-21, Kolkata [in short "ld.
CIT(A)"]. 2. As the issues raised in these appeals are mostly common and the
facts are almost identical, therefore, as agreed by both the parties, these
are heard together and being disposed off by way of this common order
for the sake of convenience and brevity. 3. The assessee is in appeal before this Tribunal raising the following
grounds in the case of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. in I.T.A. No.: 4. As regards I.T.A. Nos.: 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018 since the
grounds are similar except the change in figure of the addition, we
therefore, reproduce below the grounds of appeal raised in the case of
M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust in I.T.A. No.: 983/KOL/2018: 5. In the case of the assessee namely M/s. Gateway Financial Services
Ltd. (I.T.A. No.: 982/KOL/2018), facts in brief are that the assessee is a
limited company. Income of Rs. 45,83,180/- declared in the return for AY
2014-15 filed on 27.09.2014. Case selected for scrutiny through CASS
followed by serving of notices u/s 143(2) & 142(1) of the Act. The reason
for selecting the case for scrutiny was for verifying suspicious transaction
relating to long term capital gain on share, low net profit from share
broking business, Large value sale of option in securities (derivatives) in
a recognised stock exchange, Large value sale of futures (derivatives) in a
recognized stock exchange and Suspicious transactions relating to short
term capital loss on share. Ld. AO observed that during the year the Page 3 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

assessee has claimed short term capital loss suffered on account of sale of
equity shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd. Ld. AO on analysis of the
financial details of the listed company namely Blue Circle Services Ltd.
observed that the same has been used to set off income with bogus short
term capital loss with the help of many connected parties through price
rigging and price manipulation. Statement of Mr. Dhruva Narayan Jha
son of Mr. Bhagender Jha who is an employee of Blue Circle Services Ltd.
was recorded. Further, statement of Mr. Jagdish Prasad Purohit also
recorded who is alleged to be the key person maintaining and controlling
246 companies. Further statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal
director of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. also recorded who stated
that books of accounts of all the companies are properly maintained and
it is prepared for filing of return only on the basis of bank statement. Ld.
AO also noticed that Securities & Exchange Board of India (in short 'SEBI')
vide order dated 17th April, 2015 and 19th December, 2014 has restrained
Blue Circle Services Ltd. from dealing its securities market. Thereafter, ld.
AO examined the financials of Blue Circle Services Ltd. and observed that
in the long run, share prices of any company depends on its performance,
financial stabilities, distribution of dividend, earning of the company and
any major corporate announcements which indicates the promising
future. Further, ld. AO observed that since there is not a single condition
being fulfilled by this company i.e. Blue Circle Services Ltd. to justify the
sudden sharp rise and fall of share price, the alleged claim of short term
capital loss is bogus. However, while making the disallowance of short Page 4 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

term capital loss, ld. AO has mentioned it as addition towards long term
capital gain. 7. As regards the remaining three assessees namely M/s. Nishit
Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, Pinky Agarwal and Pratik Agarwal
Beneficiary Trust the case of the assessee(s) were selected for scrutiny and
ld. AO observed that all the three assessees have earned huge amount of
long term capital gain claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act from the
sale of scrip namely Radford Global Ltd. Respective Assessing Officers
while dealing in all these three individual cases mainly relied on the
statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal on 21.01.2016 before the
Investigation Wing. However, the same was retracted on 16.04.2016. Ld.
AOs have also referred to the statement of Mr. Soumen Chaudhury, Mr.
Ranjeet Gupta and Mr. Chiranjit Mahanta recorded on 10.02.2015 as well
as statement of Mr. Amit Singh and Mr. Bal Krishan Sikaria recorded on
22.12.2015 and 04.01.2016 respectively and report of investigation wing
on similar types of transactions and role of entry operators. Under the
similar facts, ld. AOs of the respective assessees held that the alleged long
term capital gain is bogus and additions were made u/s 68 of the Act for
unexplained cash credit towards bogus long term capital gain and
undisclosed brokerage expenses. 8. Aggrieved, all the four assessees preferred appeal before ld. CIT(A)
against the action of ld. AO but failed to succeed as ld. CIT(A)s have given
almost identical finding in the instant appeals confirming the action of ld.
AOs holding that bogus loss and bogus LTCG is claimed for dealing in Page 5 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

penny stock. For reference, we reproduce the finding of ld. CIT(A) in the
case of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd.: M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
received from the brokers only in instalments over a period of 6-7 months. It is true
that when transactions are through cheques, it looks like real transaction but
authorities are permitted to look behind the transactions and find out the motive
behind transactions. Generally, it is expected that apparent is real but it is not
sacrosanct. If facts and circumstances so warrant that it does not accord with the
test of human probabilities, transactions have been held to be non-genuine, it is
highly improbable that share price of a worthless company can go from Rs. 3 to Rs.
55 in a short span of time. Mere payment by cheque and receipt by cheque does not.
Render a transaction genuine. Capital gain tax was created to operate in a real
world and not that of make belief. Facts of the case only lead to the inference that
these transactions are not genuine and make believe only to offset the loss incurred
on the sale of jewellery declared under VDIS. In the totality of facts and
circumstances of this case and material on record, we are of the considered view
that the CIT(A) was not justified in deleting the impugned addition. We,
accordingly set aside the order of the CIT(A) and restore that of the AO. 8. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is allowed. [Unquote] 10. Moreover, all the judgments relied upon by the appellant fall flat in the face of
the facts of the case, and the preponderance of probability against the assessee. In a
decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain
Vs Pr. CIT by their order dated 10th April, 2017 have upheld the orders of the
Hon'ble ITAT, Nagpur Bench dated 18.07.2016 in ITA No. 61/Nag/2013 in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Vs ITO, Ward-4 (2), Nagpur, wherein it was held that on
the facts emergent in the case, and the preponderance of probabilities, entire Capital
Gains claims were to be treated as fictitious and bogus. Bogus LTCG from Penny stocks: The assessee has not tendered cogent evidence to
explain how the shares in an unknown company worth Rs.5 had jumped to Rs.485
in no time. The fantastic sale price was not at all possible as there was no economic
or financial basis to justify the price rise, the assessee had indulged in a dubious
share transaction meant to account for the undisclosed income in the garb of long
term capital gain. The gain has accordingly to be assessed as undisclosed credit u/s 68.

In view of the above discussion, I find no infirmity in the orders of the Ld. AO, and
I confirm the same, holding the claim of STCL of Rs.16,40,62,61/- to be bogus.
Therefore this ground of appeal stands dismissed." I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 9. Aggrieved, all the four assessees are now in appeal before this
Tribunal. The assessee has filed separate written submissions for all the
four appeals but they are almost identical and therefore, we reproduce
below the written submission in the case of M/s. Gateway Financial
Services Ltd.: The transaction is shown to be very simple and established by direct evidence. Ld.
 AO at Page-2 of the Assessment Order has noted that statement of Sri Dhruva
 Narayan Jha was recorded on oath in the course of survey operation u/s 133A at
 the business premises of M/s. Blue Circle Services Ltd on 21.01.2015 and in reply
 to Question No. 6 he submitted that Sri Jagadish Prasad Purohit is the Managing
 Director of the group companies and proprietor of BC Purohit & Co. In reply to
 Question No. 7 he submitted that he was an employee of the group companies
 managed by Sri Jagadish Prasad Purohit and on his direction became the director
 of the companies. Ld. AO has also noted that statement of Sri Jagadish Prasad
 Purohit was recorded during search and seizure operation u/s 132(4) at his
 residential premises on 21.01.2015 when in reply to Question No. 10 he mentioned
 that 246 companies are managed and controlled by him. In reply to Question No.
 16, it was stated by him that he was providing accommodation entries in the form
 of long term capital gain to different entities. In reply to Question No. 17, he stated Page 8 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
that Sri Bal Kishan Sikaria was referred by him to the client for availing the benefit
of long term capital gain. ii) Ld. AO observed that SEBI vide Order dated 17.04.2015 and 19.12.2014 has
restrained Blue Circle Services Ltd on the basis of manipulation charges from
dealing in Security market in any form. iii) The appellant relies on the consolidated order dated 26.03.2021 of Delhi Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of ITO, Ward-3(2), New Delhi Vs. M/s. Arizona
Ventures Pvt. Ltd in I.T.A. No. 1428/ DEL/2016 and ITO, Ward-3(2), New Delhi
Vs. M/s. Arizona Global Services Pvt. Ltd in I.T.A. No. 1429/DEL/2016 passed
for the Assessment Year 2012-13 wherein Page-47 of the order it is noted that the
statement made by Sri Jagadish Prasad Purohit during search u/s 132(1) on
21.01.2015 was retracted by him by way of an affidavit on 30.01.2015. The
Tribunal therefore taking note of the same had proceeded to decide a similar issue
in favour of the assessee and dismissed the appeal of the Revenue. In this case, it is
pointed out to your Honours that the appellant filed a stricter Affidavit to the
department on 18.04.2016 before the assessment proceeding, whereby the appellant
had demanded a copy of the statements of the persons relied upon in the assessment
and also required for cross-examination of the maker of the statement. Ld. AO
neither supplied a copy of the statement requested nor allowed cross-examination
of the persons whose statement was relied upon for making the addition. This goes
to show that there is no specific information or material adverse to the appellant.
However, the assessment having been based on suspicion and surmises is illegal.
Further, the Appellant would draw the attention of the court to provisions of
section Sec. 142(3) of the Act which provides that an opportunity for hearing shall
be given to the assessee where ld. AO proposes to utilise any material gathered
based on any enquiry under section 143(2) for the assessment where assessment is
made u/s 143(3) failing which makes the assessment is void ab initio. iv) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Odeon Builders Private
Limited [2019] 418 ITR 315 (SC) has held that Addition or disallowance cannot be
made solely on third-party information without independently subjecting it to
further verification by ld. AO. v) The Appellant relies on the decision of the Chennai Bench of the Tribunal in the
case of Smt. Vandana Jain & Ors. Vs. ITO in ITA Nos. 1903 & 1904/Chny/2019
Order dated 31.03.2022 where the Hon'ble Tribunal in Para-12 of the Order has
held that compliance of provisions of Sec. 142(3) is a mandatory statutory
requirement in completing the assessment proceedings failing which may vitiate
the entire assessment itself since the sub- sec. uses the word "shall". I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust vi) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs
Commissioner of Central Excise reported in [2016] 38 GSTR 117 (SC) has held
that the adjudicating authority's denial of the assessee's claim to cross-examine the
witnesses through the statements of those witnesses was made the basis of the order,
was a serious flaw which nullified the order since it was a violation of the principles
of natural justice. vii) Also in the case of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central) vs Oriental
Power Cables Ltd reported in [2022] 143 taxmann.com 371 (SC) has held that
failure to give the assessee the right to cross-examine witnesses whose statements
are relied on results in a breach of principles of natural justice. It is a serious flaw
which renders the order a nullity. viii) In the case of Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR 1980 14 SC 2117), the Hon'ble SC
on the aspect of cross-examination held as follows:- ix) The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in Eastern Commercial Enterprise, (1994)
(Cal) [210 ITR 103] at page-111: Held as under:- I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
Four basic principles of law as has been consistently adopted for this type of case
are: Except for a few exceptional cases where the facts were very weak, it was merely
settled by countless judicial decisions of the Tribunal and the High Court that the
Long Term Capital Gain claimed by the assessee on what is called PENNY
STOCKS is genuine and has been taxed accordingly. xi) Recently, the Hon'ble Calcutta High court in Principal CIT Vs Swati Bajaj 446
ITR 56 (Cal) has set aside the Tribunal's order in favour of the assessee and
upholding the orders of ld. AO, the Commissioner (Appeals) and the Commissioner
(u/s 263), the Court decided the issue against the assessee and in favour of the
Revenue. The assessee in this case submitted in support of the genuineness of the Long Term
Capital Gain on Penny stock on direct evidence, such as the contract notes from the
brokers, profit & loss A/c, Balance Sheet, computation of total income, proximate
facts and circumstances surrounding the event on which the charges or allegations
are founded to reach a reasonable conclusion and the test would be what inferential
process a reasonable of prudent man would apply to conclude. The proximity and time and prior meeting of minds was also a very important
factor especially when the Department pointed out that there had been an unnatural
rise in the price of the scrips of very little-known companies. In all cases, there were
a minimum of two brokers involved in the transactions. It would be very difficult
to gather direct proof of meeting of mind of those brokers or sub-brokers or
middlemen or entry operators, therefore the test to be applied was the test of
preponderance of probability to ascertain whether there had been a violation of the
provisions of the Act. Therefore the conclusion had to be gathered from various
circumstances such as volume of trade, period of persistence in trading in the
particular scrips, particulars of purchase and sale orders, the volume thereof and
proximity of the time between the two which are relevant factors. Therefore
methodology adopted by the Department could not be faulted. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
The holistic approach was required to be made and the test of the preponderance of
probability had to be applied in doing so one could not lose sight of the fact that
prices of shares of very little-known companies with the insignificant business had
arisen steeply within the period of little over a year. The department was not privy
to such peculiar trading activities as they appeared to have been done through the
various Stock Exchanges and it was only when the assesses claimed long-term
capital gain or short-term capital loss that the investigation commenced. The
Investigation did not commence from the assessee but commenced from the
companies and the persons who were involved in the trading of the shares of these
companies, which were all classified as penny-stock companies. The assessees were
not named in the report and when the assessee claimed exemption the onus of proof
was on the assessee to prove the genuinity. With due respect, it is submitted that one wonders when the assessee was not named
in the report, how the onus could be on him to prove the genuinity. No doubt, the
burden on the assessee to prove the genuineness of the share transactions carried
out by him is not denied, and the assessee discharged this burden by producing
direct documentary evidence in his possession. The assesses were lawfully bound to prove the huge long-term capital gain claims
to be genuine. In other words, if there was information and data available of
unreasonable rise in the price of these shares of these penny-stock companies over a
short time of little more than one year, the genuinity of a such steep rise in the
prices of these shares had to be established and the onus was on the assessee to do
so has mandated in Sec. 68 . It is submitted with due respect that the assesses who earned and offered long-term
capital gains on penny stocks were certainly the beneficiaries of the unreasonable
rise in the prices of penny stocks, but the assesses were not a party to, or responsible
for, such unreasonable rise in prices nor was there any evidence to that effect the
persons responsible for manipulations of such unreasonable rise in prices were the
companies whose shares were being traded and the operators involved therein, not
the assesses, who offered long term capital gains on the sale of such penny-stock
shares. Therefore the burden was not on the assessee to prove the steep rise in prices
of penny-stock shares. Once the assessee produced direct evidence in support of
their transactions the onus on the assessee stands adequately discharged. It was observed by the Court that the assessee did not and could not dispute the fact
that the shares of the companies with which it had dealt, were insignificant in value
before the trading. It was the assessee who had to establish that the price rise was
genuine. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
It is humbly submitted that the burden on the assessee was to merely prove the
genuineness of the share transactions, and not the genuineness of the price rise
because the assessee had no say in, or control over, the companies whose share prices
had risen sharply on the recognised Stock Exchanges. The assessee could not be
saddled with the burden of proving the genuineness of the price rise of the scrips on
the recognised Stock Exchanges. Therefore, it was entitled to claim long-term
capital gains on the transaction. The court observed that until and unless the initial burden cast upon the assessee
was discharged, the onus did not shift to the revenue to prove otherwise. Therefore,
until and unless the assessee discharged such burden of proof, the addition made by
ld. AO could not be faulted. With due respect, this reasoning of the Court is unconvincing in the light of the
submissions made hereinabove. The initial burden cast upon the assessee stands
adequately discharged the moment the assessee produces all the documentary
evidence of the share transactions as stated above. The so-called initial burden on
the assessee, it is submitted with due respect, does not include the burden to prove
the genuineness of the rise in share prices on the Stock Exchanges especially when
the Stock Exchanges are regulated by a statute (SEBI Act 1992), and a body
constituted therein, namely, SEBI. The court observed that merely because the assessee had invested in other bluechip
companies and earned profit or incurred loss, that would not validate the tainted
transactions. It had been established by the Department that the rise of the prices
of the shares was artificially done by adopting manipulative practices.
Consequently, the resultant benefits accrued from such manipulated practices were
also treated as tainted. However, the assessee had the opportunity to prove that
there was no manipulation at the other end and that whatever gains the assessee
had reaped were not tainted. This had not been proved or established by the assessee.
Therefore ld. AO was well justified in concluding that the so-called explanation
offered by the assessee was not to his satisfaction. Thus the assessee has not proved
the genuineness of the claim, the creditworthiness of the companies in which it had
invested and the identity of the persons to whom the transactions were done, had
to necessarily proved. With due respect, it is submitted that the assessee was under no obligation to prove
that there was no manipulation "at the other end" to establish that the capital gain
earned by him on penny stocks was "not tainted". Both are different. The Hon'ble Court observed that in such a factual scenario ld. AOs as well as the
Commissioners had adopted an inferential process that reasonable and prudent Page 13 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
person would follow. Ld. AOs and the Commissioners had culled out proximate
facts in each of the cases, taken into consideration the surrounding circumstances
which came to light after the investigation, assessed the conduct of the assesses,
taken note of the proximity of the time between the purchase and sale operations
and also the sudden and steep rise of the price of the shares of the companies when
the general market trend was admittedly recessive and thereafter arrived at a
conclusion which was a proper conclusion and in the absence of any satisfactory
explanations by the assesses, ld. AOs were bound to make addition u/s 68 . It is submitted with utmost humility and great respect that in the face of the direct
documentary evidence submitted by the assessee in this case in support of his share
transactions, this line of reasoning adopted by the Court appears to be
unconvincing, looking at the settled rules of evidence in that jurisprudence. xii) The Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta in the case of Principal CIT Vs Swati
Bajaj [2022] 446 ITR 56 (Cal) at Page 142 of the judgment in the second last
paragraph has observed that where a witness has given directly incriminating
statement and the addition in the assessment is based solely and mainly on the basis
of such statement, in that eventuality it is incumbent on ld. AO to allow cross
examination of the witness. Ld. AO at page-2 of his order has recorded the statement of Sri Jagadish Prasad
Purohit during the search proceedings u/s 132(4) carried out at his residence on
21.01.2015 wherein in reply to Question No. 16 he stated that he was involved in
providing accommodation entry in the form of long term capital gain to any entity.
Further in reply to Question No. 17 he stated that he recommended Sri Bal Krishan
Sikaria of 14, N.S. Road, Kolkata for providing accommodation entry in the form
of long term capital gain. The statement have been utilised by ld. AO in holding
that the short term capital loss incurred by the assessee from the transaction in
shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd of Rs. 16,40,62,615/- as bogus. Therefore ld. AO
was bound to supply those statements and allow the cross examination of the maker
of the statements to the assessee according to the judgement of the Hon'ble Calcutta
High Court in Swati Bajaj case as well as in view of the judgments of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs Commissioner of
Central Excise reported inn [2016] 38 GSTR 117 (SC), Principal Commissioner of
Income Tax (Central) Vs Oriental Power Cables Ltd reported in [2022] 143
taxmann.com 371 (SC), Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR. 1980 14 SC 2117) and the
Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Eastern Commercial Enterprise (1994)
(Cal) [210 ITR 103]. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
Further ld. AO at Page 13 of the assessment order has relied upon SEBI Order No.
WTM/RKA/ISD/161/2014 Dated 19 December 2014 while treating the Long Term
Capital Gain as bogus. The appellant relies on the order of the Hon'ble ITAT Delhi
Bench in the case of Sri. Mukesh Mittal Vs. Income Tax Officer, Ward-41 (1), New
Delhi dated 26.03.2021 passed in SA No. 152/Del/2020 and ITA No. 761/Del/2020
for the Assessment Year 2014-15 where at Page -19 para-5 of the order the Tribunal
has observed as under: 5.1 The name of the assessee appears at item 77 of the list. Further it was held in
Para 10 as under: In this case, the above four cardinal principles have been ignored by the department.
The appellant invested in the shares of the company but there is no reason to doubt
the genuineness of the transaction. The addition made by the Ld. AO on account of
alleged bogus short term capital loss of Rs. 16,40,62,615/- is not sustainable in law.
In the assessment order, no adverse comment or statement was recorded against
the share brokers of the appellant and the documents which have been furnished by
the appellant have been set out by the AO in his order dated 29.12.2016 in
paragraph 3, the AO has noted the explanation given by the appellant as to how the
investment was made and going by the investment made by the appellant. Thus, it
is submitted that the facts clearly show that the appellant, M/s Gateway Financial
Services Ltd is a bona fide investor in stocks and shares. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Thus the statements relied upon by ld. AO in making the addition cannot be read
 against the appellant as they were not confronted by the appellant during the
 assessment as well not allowed to cross-examine the maker of the statement. If the
 statement is removed there is no material brought on record by the lower authority
 based on which addition can be made of Rs. 16,40,62,615/- by treating the short-
 term capital gain from the sale of shares as bogus. It is the submission that considering the above submissions the addition of Rs.
 16,40,62,615/- be deleted in full and the grounds of appeal of the appellant are
 allowed." 9.1. Further, as regards the remaining three assessee(s) the alleged
LTCG is from sale of equity shares of Radford Global Ltd. Ld. Counsel for
the assessee has made similar submissions as given in case of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. (supra). Further, at the time of hearing on
23.06.2023 (fixed for clarification), ld. Counsel for the assessee has made
further submissions which reads as follows: It is submitted that the name of the assessees before the Hon'ble Tribunal -M/s.
Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, Pinky Agarwal and Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary
Trust appears at sl. No. 1 to 3 of the list of entities against whom the enquiry was
conducted and also form part of a batch of 24 Notices referred to by SEBI. In respect
of the batch of 24 Notices at SI. No.l to 24 SEBI found that the charge of violation
of provisions of SEBI Act 1992 of price manipulation is not established. On identical facts the Ahmedabad Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ITO, Ward-
3(3)(2) Ahmedabad Versus M/s. Gokuldham Enterprise LLP in ITA No.
675/Ahd/2018 vide Order dated 11.01.2023 held as under: As for the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has rightly distinguished the same on facts
 pointing out that in those case there was no reference to any order of SEBI in the
 scrips traded in. That accordingly the Hon'ble High Court had dealt with the issue
 on merits referring to the financials of the scrips not supporting the high prices at
 which it were sold and accordingly holding that the assessee in such circumstances
 was required to establish the genuineness of the transaction. The Ld. DR was
 unable to controvert the factual distinction pointed out by the Ld. Counsel for the
 assessee as above. We agree therefore, in the light of the factual distinction, that the
 decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court is not applicable in the present case. 15. In view of the above, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld. CIT
 (A) deleting the addition made on account of alleged bogus long term capital gains
 of Rs.8,90,28,838/-. Accordingly, the grounds of the appeal of the Revenue are
 dismissed. It is prayed that facts being identical, following the precedent the addition made on
 account of alleged bogus long term capital gain be deleted in full and the appeals of
 the assessees are allowed." 10. Though, ld. Counsel for the assessee has filed the written
submissions both with regard to the merits of the case as well as the legal
issue, however, the arguments were given on the legal issue in full force
stating that the basis of the addition was the statement of third persons
and the analogy adopted by ld. AO of disallowing the claim of short term
capital loss as well as denying the benefit of exemption on long term
capital gain was mainly on the basis of statements of various persons referred above in preceding paras. That as per the principles of natural Page 18 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

justice, ld. AO ought to have given an opportunity to the assessee to cross-
examine these persons and failing which the action of ld. AO cannot be
held to be legally sustainable. Ld. Counsel for the assessee has submitted
that the statement of Sri Dhruva Narayan Jha was recorded in the course
of survey operation u/s 133A at the business premises of M/s. Blue Circle
Services Ltd on 21.01.2015 wherein he stated that Sri Jagadish Prasad
Purohit is the Managing Director of the group companies and proprietor
of BC Purohit & Co. and is an employee of the group companies managed
by Sri Jagadish Prasad Purohit and was also the director of the companies,
and as regards Sri Jagadish Prasad Purohit statements were recorded on
oath in the course of search and seizure u/s. 132(4) at his residential
premises on 21.01.2015. The Ld. Counsel for the appellant submitted that
the appellants were not allowed to cross-examine the makers of the
statement and hence these statements cannot be read against the
appellant. To buttress his argument he relied on the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs
Commissioner of Central Excise reported in ( 2016) 38 GSTR 117 (SC), Principal
Commissioner of Income Tax (Central) Vs Oriental Power Cables Ltd reported
in (2022) 143 taqxmann.com 371 (SC) and Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR 1980
14 SC 2117) wherein it has been held that adjudicating authority's denial
of the assessee's claim to cross-examine the witnesses though the
statements of those witnesses were made the basis of the order, was a
serious flow which nullified the order since it was a violation of the
principle of natural justice." I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 11. On the other hand, ld. D/R vehemently argued supporting the
orders of both the lower authorities, detailed finding of ld. CIT(A) and
various decisions and judgments referred therein and further placed on
record following written submission which inter alia includes all the four
assessees in the bunch of appeals before us: In the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj and Ors. the Hon'ble High Court rejected this
similar ground taken and held that "However, if a witness has given directly
incriminating statement and the addition in the assessment is based solely or
mainly on the basis of such statement, in that eventuality it is incumbent on ld.
AO to allow cross-examination. Adverse evidence and material, relied upon in the
order, to reach the finality, should be disclosed to the assessee. But this rule is not
applicable where the material or evidence used is of collateral nature." (Highlighted portion in the part of Hon'ble High Court order of the Annexure-A)

Hon'ble High Court further held that "In view of the above facts and circumstances
and in law, we find that in the instant case addition in dispute is not solely on the
basis of the statement of persons and ld. AO has relied on other materials. The
statements of the persons who controlled the business of providing accommodation
entry have been corroborated with the material, surround circumstances and
preponderance of probability. We accordingly uphold the finding of the
Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) on that issue in dispute. The relevant
ground of the appeal of the assessee are accordingly rejected." (Highlighted portion in the part of Hon'ble High Court order of the Annexure-B)

(2) The Ld. A/R of the assessee submitted that Sri Praveen Kr. Agarwal, the entry
operator who had deposed before the I.T. Authorities of having arranged bogus
share capital gain on penny stocks, has retracted from his statement at a later date. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Any retraction of statement does not resolutely vitiate the substance in the orders
 of the A.O. and Ld. CIT(A). Purportedly, Sri Praveen Kr. Agarwal was arrested
 by the CBI as appearing in a Section of Press Report the headlines of which in Hindi
 reads CBI arrests the jama-kharchi operator(s) involved in 60 thousand crore scam
 in Kolkata in connection with another case, and charge-sheeted on 7th April 2016. (Copy of the press report enclosed as Annexure-C)

 The action of the Agency clearly indicates his involvement in such malpractices
 and thus any retraction of statement from his side takes a back seat. (3) The Ld. A/R had also submitted that the Ld. CIT(A) had mistakenly stated that
 there was an amalgamation in the case of Rad Ford Global whereas the case was not
 so. It is submitted that this argument is too feeble to feature in the larger aspect of
 things. Accordingly, where the statement of affairs and modus operandi of the aforesaid
 four assessees squarely match that of the cases cited in the order of the Hon'ble High
 Court of Calcutta in the case of Swati Bajaj and Ors. in as much as arranging and
 booking fictitious capital gains/losses through price rigging of penny stocks and
 being a party to a multi crore financial misdeed in bringing unaccounted moneys
 to its books, the order of the Ld. CIT(A), confirming the order of the A.Os and
 prayed to be upheld. It will be pertinent to mention, that the Ld. A/R was directed by the Bench to make
 a point wise written submission by evening of 15/02/2023 and provide a copy of
 the same to the office of CIT(DR), ITAT, Kolkata. However, till this point of time,
 this office is not in receipt of the same and thus the above may be treated as interim
 report. The undersigned craves to make a final submission, in case the Ld A/R submits the
 above." 11.1. On the date of hearing fixed for clarification on 23.06.2023 ld. D/R
has made further submissions which reads as follows: [Emphasis provided] 2. It may be pertinent to mention that out of the four cases under consideration,
M/s Gateway Financial Services Ltd., in which the addition was on account of
bogus short term capital loss and the share scrip involved was also different, is not
covered by the above quoted order of SEBI. 3. The Ld. A/R also relied on the order of Hon'ble ITAT Ahmedabad dated 11-01-
2023 in the case of Ward-3(3)(2) Ahmedabad v. M/S Gokuldham Enterprises LLP where the ITAT deleted the addition on account of bogus LTCG by observing inter
alia as under: As for the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has rightly distinguished the same on facts
pointing out that in those case there was no reference to any order of SEBI in the
scrips traded in. That accordingly the Hon'ble High Court had dealt with the issue
on merits referring to the financials of the scrips not supporting the high prices at
which it were sold and accordingly holding that the assessee in such circumstances
was required to establish the genuineness of the transaction. The Ld. DR was
unable to controvert the factual distinction pointed out by the Ld. Counsel for the
assessee as above. We agree therefore, in the light of the factual distinction, that the
decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court is not applicable in the present case. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 15. In view of the above, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld.
CIT (A) deleting the addition made on account of alleged bogus long term capital
gains of Rs.8,90,28,838/-. Accordingly, the grounds of the appeal of the Revenue
are dismissed. [ Emphasis provided]

3.1. In the light of the above decision , it is the argument of the Ld. A/R that the
facts being identical, the additions made on account of alleged bogus LTCG in the
3 (out of 4) cases under consideration should be deleted. 4. In the context of the above submissions of the Ld. A/R, it submitted that in the
facts and circumstances of the impugned appeals it would be incorrect to say that
the AO's orders in the three cases were based "only on the interim SEBI order
alone' as noted by the Hon'ble Ahmedabad ITAT in M/s Gokuldham
Enterprises (supra), on which heavy reliance was placed by the Ld. A/R. Primarily
the orders of the AO were based on the results of exhaustive enquiries conducted
by the Investigation wing of the Income Tax Department and the statements of
various accommodation entry providers recorded during the course of investigation
process. The AO made a comprehensive discussion in the assessment order
regarding the modus operandi of share manipulators. He analysed the share price
chart and the financial data of the company M/s Radford Global Ltd to conclusively
establish with the help of flow charts and graphical representations the colourable
nature of the transactions resulting in disproportionately high LTCG. After having
done that he observed in P/10 of the order that not even a single condition was
fulfilled by the said company which justifies the sudden sharp rise and fall of the
share price. The AO also discussed the results of survey operation conducted by the
Investigation wing of the department and to the statements of various
accommodation entry providers to strengthen his case further. However, reference
of the SEBI's investigation was also made in the order, since SEBI is the regulatory
authority for securities and commodity market in India where such price rigging
and manipulations had taken place. Therefore, the findings of SEBI vide its order
dated 19.12.2014, which had quite emphatically pronounced the acts and omissions
of Radford Group & Suspected Entities and allottees as 'fraudulent', was
considered to be relevant and rightly referred to by the AO as corroborative
evidence to fortify his own findings, because SEBI, being the regulatory body had
acknowledged at that point of time that there was a scam which resulted in price
manipulation and generation of income by way of bogus LTCG/STCL. 5. The decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in Swati Bajaj, [2022] 139
taxmann.com 352 (Calcutta) is in favour of revenue on identical facts as in the Page 25 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
present case. In the said decision , with regard to the prior meeting of minds before
execution of the transactions leading to the generation of disproportionately high
LTCG, the Hon'ble court observed in Para-73 as under: tax department was not privy to such peculiar trading activities as they appear to
have been done through the various stock exchanges and it is only when the
assessees made claim for a LTCG/STCL, the investigation commenced. As pointed
out the investigation did not commence from the assessee but had commenced from
the companies and the persons who were involved in the trading of the shares of
these companies which are all classified as penny stocks companies. Therefore, the
argument of the assessee that the copy of the investigation report has not been
furnished, the persons from whom statements have been recorded have not been
produced for cross examination are all contention which has to necessarily fail for
several reasons which we have set out in the proceedings paragraphs. To reiterate,
the assessee we not named in the report and when the assessee makes the claim for
exemption the onus of proof is on the assessee to prove the genuinity.
Unfortunately, the assessees have been harping upon the transactions done by them
and by relying upon the documents in their hands to contend that the transactions
done were genuine. Unfortunately, the test of genuinity needs to be established
otherwise, the assessees are lawfully bound to prove the huge LTCG claims to be
genuine. In other words if there is information and data available of unreasonable
rise in the price of the shares of these penny stock companies over a short period of
time of little more than one year, the genuinity of such steep rise in the prices of
shares needs to be established and the onus is on the assessee to do so as mandated
in Section 68 of the Act. Thus, the assessees cannot be permitted to contend that
the assessments were based on surmises and conjectures or presumptions or
assumptions. The assessee does not and cannot dispute the fact that the shares of
the companies which they have dealt with were insignificant in value prior to their
trading. If such is the situation, it is the assessee who has to establish that the price
rise was genuine and consequently they are entitled to claim LTCG on their
transaction. Until and unless the initial burden cast upon the assessee is Page 26 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
discharged, the onus does not shift to the revenue to prove otherwise. It is incorrect
to argue that the assessees have been called upon to prove the negative in fact, it is
the assessees duty to establish that the rise of the price of shares within a short
period of time was a genuine move that those penny stocks companies had credit
worthiness and coupled with genuinity and identity. The assesses cannot be heard
to say that their claim has to be examined only based upon the documents produced
by them namely bank details, the purchase/sell documents, the details of the D-Mat
Account etc. The assesses have lost sight of an important fact that when a claim is
made for LTCG or STCL, the onus is on the assessee to prove that credit worthiness
of the companies whose shares the assessee has dealt with, the genuineness of the
price rise which is undoubtedly alarming that to within a short span of time. [Emphasis provided]

5.1. Thus, the Hon'ble court acknowledged the difficulties in getting direct proof of
the prior meeting of minds of the persons involved in manipulative transactions
and held that onus was cast on the each individual assessee, who has to establish
that the price rise was genuine and consequently he/she/it is entitled to claim
LTCG/STCL on such transaction. 6. As pointed out in Para-4 above, in the cases under consideration the AO had
comprehensively dealt with each and every aspect of the case before concluding that
the LTCG was bogus. He added back the sums u/s 68 of the Act in each case as the
onus cast on the assessees could not be discharged by them. Even though he made
a reference to the SEBI's investigation and its order to strengthen his assessment
order but evidently did not place sole reliance on the same. Therefore, the
assessment orders in the cases under consideration are completely different from
the one under consideration of Hon'ble Ahmedabad ITAT in the case of M/S
Gokuldham Enterprises LLP (supra), where sole reliance was stated to have been
placed in the SEBI order . Consequently, the ratio of the said decision is not
applicable in these cases. 7. It may also be mentioned that the order of the AO has been confirmed by Ld.
CIT(A) by passing a detailed and well reasoned order. He highlighted various
decisions of the apex court on the test of human probabilities and also that the true
nature of the transaction has to be ascertained in the light of surrounding
circumstances before upholding the addition made by the AO. 8. In view of the facts and circumstances stated above, it is submitted that SEBI's
order 29.08.2019 should not have any significant impact in the outcome of the
present proceedings. Income Tax Department is a law enforcing agency and it has
its own investigation arm. The result of investigation conducted by it was the Page 27 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 fulcrum on which the AO based his assessment order. It is, therefore, prayed before
 the Hon'ble bench that the findings of the AO and the CIT(A) on the issue in
 dispute be upheld, the prayer of the Ld. A/R vide his latest submission dated
 21.06.2023 be rejected and the assessees' appeals be dismissed. 12. We have heard rival contentions and perused the records placed
before us, carefully gone through all the written submissions and the
judgments referred and relied by both the parties. In the instant bunch of
four appeals, the one in the case of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd.
claim of short term capital loss has been denied and in the remaining three
cases long term capital gain exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act has been
denied. The basis of said action by the Revenue authorities has been
mainly on the basis of the statements of various persons which are either
directly connected to the group of assessees in appeal before us or they
are third persons which were found by the Investigation Wing of the
Income Tax Department to be engaged in providing accommodation
entry in the form of bogus capital gain. Though in the written submissions
filed by the assessee arguments have been placed both on the legal issue
as well as merits of the case, we will first take up the legal ground raised
in the instant bunch of appeals. 14. The legal issue raised is that principles of natural justice have been
violated by ld. AO by not providing an opportunity to cross-examine
those persons whose statements have been recorded at the back of the
assessee and have been used against the assessee(s) and thus, the prayer
has been made by the ld. Counsel for the assessee that due to the violation
of principles of natural justice the assessment orders are illegal, invalid,
bad in law and liable to be quashed. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 15. We observe that in the case of assessee namely M/s. Gateway
Financial Services Ltd., incurred short term capital loss from purchase and
sale of equity shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd. during FY 2013-14. In the
said transaction of short term capital loss (in short 'STCL')/long term
capital gain (in short 'LTCG) there is no merger or amalgamation issue.
The transaction is shown to be very simple and established by direct
evidence. Before going into the merits of the case, ld. AO firstly referred
to the statement of Mr. Dhruva Narayan Jha which was recorded during
the course of survey operation carried out at the business premises of Blue
Circle Services Ltd. on 21.01.2015 which is much after the date of alleged
transactions carried out on the recognised stock exchange platform and
through banking channel. Secondly, ld. AO referred to the statement of
another Mr. Jagdish Prasad Purohit recorded on oath during the course
of search u/s 132 of the Act carried out on 21.01.2015 at his residential
premises wherein he stated to have been controlling 246 companies
engaged in providing accommodation entry. Third reference was made
by ld. AO to the statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal who is the
director of M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. which was recorded on
10.02.2015. All the above three statements were recorded much before the
date of selecting the case of the assessee for scrutiny. However, in the
assessment order firstly reference has been made to all the three
statements of the persons named above and thereafter, the modus operandi
of arranging bogus short term capital loss has been discussed and then
the financials of Blue Circle Services Ltd. has been analyzed. The very
basis of the addition made by ld. AO is on the statements of three persons Page 29 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

of which one is related to the assessee company and the two are third
persons. 15.1. During the course of hearing, statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar
Agarwal was again recorded on 21.01.2016 by ld. AOs of the other three
assessee(s) before us namely M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust,
Pinky Agarwal and Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust wherein he stated
that the capital gain earned by him and his members were pre-arranged
and bogus but the said statement was retracted through an affidavit filed
before the Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department on 16.04.2016.
Since Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal retracted his statement it lost its
evidentiary value and the remaining two persons namely Mr. Dhruva
Narayan Jha and Mr. Jagdish Prasad Purohit are, those, persons who were
totally unknown to the assessee(s) but their statements have been used by
ld. AO to make the addition in the hands of the assessee. So far as the
remaining three assessees namely M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust,
Pinky Agarwal and Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust apart from the
statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal taken on 21.01.2016 which
stands retracted on 16.04.2016 by way of an affidavit, strong reliance was
placed by ld. AO on the statement of Mr. Amit Singh (recorded on
22.12.2015), Mr. Bal Krishan Sikaria (recorded on 04.01.2016), Mr. Soumen
Chaudhury, Mr. Ranjeet Gupta and Mr. Chiranjit Mahanta (recorded on
10.02.2015). After referring to these statements, some discussions have
been made by ld. AO referring the scrip Radford Global Ltd. as a penny
stock. However, now in the case of these three assessee(s) also no
opportunity was provided for cross-examination of the persons whose Page 30 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

statements have been relied heavily by ld. AO for making the impugned
addition. 16. Further, we note that ld. AO relied on the report of the Directorate
of Investigation wing Kolkata which found that the broker and promoter
through a racket were facilitating various individuals in covering the
unaccounted money by providing long-term capital gain in quoted shares
which was exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act without any tax implication. Ld.
AO also discussed the modus operandi of the same. Considering the above
statements and report of the Investigation Wing ld. AO concluded that
the STCL/LTCG incurred/earned by the assessee(s) during the year of
are bogus. 17. When the matter travelled before ld. CIT (Appeals) it was
commonly observed placing reliance on various judgments of High
Courts and Tribunals quoted in the impugned orders confirmed the
finding of ld. AO and dismissed the appeal of the appellant. 18. Before us, Ld. Counsel for the assessee has submitted that the
statement of Sri Ranjeet Gupta, Sri Chiranjit Mahanta and Sri Soumen
Chaudhary recorded on 10.02.2015, the statement of Sri Amit Singh
recorded on 22.12.2015 and the statement of Sri Bal Krishan Sikaria
recorded on 04.01.2016 were not provided to the assessee by ld. AO before
relying on the same. The Ld. Counsel for the appellant submitted that the
appellant was not allowed to cross-examine the makers of the statement
and hence these statements cannot be read against the appellant. To
buttress his argument he relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Page 31 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs Commissioner of Central
Excise reported in ( 2016) 38 GSTR 117 (SC), Principal Commissioner of Income
Tax (Central) Vs Oriental Power Cables Ltd reported in (2022) 143
taqxmann.com 371 (SC) and Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR 1980 14 SC 2117)
wherein it has been held that adjudicating authority's denial of the
assessee's claim to cross-examine the witnesses whose statements of are
made the basis of the additions in the hands of the assessee is a serious
flow which nullifies the order since it was a violation of the principle of
natural justice as provided under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 19. We also observe that according to the provisions of Sec. 142(3) of the
Income Tax Act 1961 the assessee shall, except where the assessment is
made u/s 144, be given an opportunity of being heard in respect of any
material gathered based on any enquiry under sub-sec. (2) and proposed
to be utilised for the assessment. We note that ld. AO has relied on the
report of the Directorate Investigation Kolkata and the statements of
various persons for holding the long-term capital gain earned by the
appellant as bogus without providing a copy of the same and allowing
the appellant an opportunity of hearing to controvert the same. 20. We also note that ld. AO has relied on the statements of five persons
and the Investigation report. In the instant case an adverse inference
against the well documented claim made by the assessee was drawn only
on the basis of the statement of five persons. The claim of the assessee that
copies of statements of five persons which were relied upon by the
Department was not provided to the assessee prior to the completion of
assessment could not be controverted by the Revenue. In the above Page 32 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

circumstances it is a well settled law that the material which has been
gathered behind the back of the assessee cannot be read against the
assessee unless the assessee has been confronted with that material and
was allowed a reasonable opportunity to rebut the same. 21. So far as the recent judgment of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court
in the case of Principal CIT Vs Swati Bajaj reported in [2022] 446 ITR 56
(Cal) is concerned, we observe that the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta in
the case of Principal CIT Vs Swati Bajaj [2022] 446 ITR 56 (Cal) at Page 142
of the judgment in the second last paragraph has observed that where a
witness has given directly incriminating statement and the addition in the
assessment is based solely and mainly on the basis of such statement, in
that eventuality it is incumbent on the Assessing Officer to allow cross
examination of the witness. Adverse evidence and material, relied upon
in the order, to reach the finality should be disclosed to the assessee. In
the case of the appellant the Assessing Officer has noted at Page-2 of the
assessment order dated 18.12.2016 that employee of Gateway Financial
Sri Ranjeet Kumar Gupta, Sri Kiranjeet Mahanta in their statement on oath
dated 10.02.2015 accepted that they are appointed as director in different
zama kharchi companies. Further the employee of Gateway Financial Sri
Soumen Chowdhury in his statement on oath dated 10.02.2015 accepted
that the said company is engaged in buying and selling of different shares
including jamakharchi companies for providing accommodation entry in
different forms such bogus long term capital gain/loss etc. He also
explained the modus operandi of pre-arranged bogus LTCG transactions.
The AO further observed that statement of Sri Amit Singh was recorded Page 33 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

on oath on 22.12.2015 who in reply to Question No.5 accepted that he was
working under the direction of Sri Bal Kishan Sikaria Director of Sikaria
Share & Stock Broking Services Ltd. The AO further noted that statement
of Sri Bal Kishan Sikaria was recorded on oath on 04.01.2016 who is a
Director of Sikaria Share & Stock Broking Services Ltd which is the
member of Calcutta Stock Exchange and 5 Other companies. Mr. Amit
Singh of an employee of him, who in reply to Question No. 6 confirmed
that he was indulging in providing accommodation entries to various
parties and in reply to Question No. 12 he stated that he confirms that Sri
Amit Singh was the Proprietor of M/s SS Enterprises which is controlled
and managed by him have purchased 2,69,870 shares of Radford Global
through Calcutta Stock Exchange which were sold by Pratik Agarwal
Beneficiary Trust, Praveen Agarwal HUF, Pinky Agarwal and Nishit
Agarwal Beneficiary Trust of approx. Rs.2,19,10,234/- through their
seller-broker M/s. Gateway Financial Services Pvt. Ltd resulting in
facilitation of pre-arranged accommodation entry of LTCG to them. This
evidence was utilised by the Assessing Officer in treating their Long Term
Capital Gains from transaction in shares of Radford Global Ltd as bogus
and making addition u/s 68 of the Act. 22. Regarding the report of SEBI report dated 19.12.2014 we find that
the said order was revoked by SEBI by the final order dated 20.09.2017 in
SEBI/WTM/MPB/EFD-1-DRA-III/ 30 /2017 by observing as under: 23. It is well settled that while acting in their quasi-judicial capacity the
income tax authorities have to adhere to the principles of natural justice
and in the instant cases Assessing Officers of respective assessee(s) ought
to have given opportunity to assessee(s) to cross examine these five
persons whose statements were the basis of alleged additions. 24. Coordinate Bench Delhi in the case of Nokia India (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT reported in [2015] 59 taxmann.com 212 (Delhi - Trib.) has held that "whether
cross-examination is to be provided or not depends upon the facts of each case and
there is no thumb rule or straight tight jacket formula for arriving at this
conclusion. It all depends on facts of each case whether principles of natural
justice have been complied with or not. If decision making authority has provided
due opportunity to the person complaining of non-observance of principles of
natural justice, then it is for the person so complaining to demonstrate the same
and show the prejudice caused to him. Mere bald assertion of non-observance of
the principles of natural justice is of no consequence. 25. Further, Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries v.
CCE reported in (2015) 281 CTR 241 (SC) has considered that "if there was
no material with the Department on the basis of which it could justify its action,
and if the statement of the two witnesses who were unknown to the appellant was
the only basis of issuing the Show Cause Notice, right to cross examination has Page 35 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

to be given and held that we are of the opinion that if the testimony of these two
witnesses is discredited, there was no material with the Department on the basis
of which it could justify its action, as the statement of the aforesaid two witnesses
was the only basis of issuing the Show Cause Notice." 26. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in New India Assurance
Company Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia & Anr. , AIR 2008 SC 876, while
considering a case under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised
Occupants) Act, 1971 , held that though the statute may not provide for
cross- examination, the same being a part of Principles of Natural Justice
should be held to be an indefeasible right. It was held as follows: 27. In the case of Rajiv Arora v. Union of India and Ors. AIR 2009 SC 1100
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that "effective cross-examination could
have been done as regards the correctness or otherwise of the report, if the contents
of them were proved. The principles analogous to the provisions of the Indian
Evidence Act as also the principles of natural justice demand that the maker of
the report should be examined, save and except in cases where the facts are
admitted or the witnesses are not available for cross-examination or similar
situation. The High Court in its impugned judgment proceeded to consider the
issue on a technical plea, namely, no prejudice has been caused to the Appellant
by such non-examination. If the basic principles of law have not been complied Page 36 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

with or there has been a gross violation of the principles of natural justice, the
High Court should have exercised its jurisdiction of judicial review." 28. The aforesaid decision makes it evident that, not only should the
opportunity of cross-examination be made available, but it should be an
effective cross examination, so as to meet the requirement of the principles
of natural justice. In the absence of such an opportunity, it cannot be held
that the matter has been decided in accordance with law, as cross-
examination is an integral part and parcel of the principles of natural
justice. Cross-examination is must where Assessing Officer relies upon
only on the statement of the Third Party unconnected with the appellant 29. In the case of Krishna Chand Chela Ram v. CIT reported in (1980) 125
ITR 713 (SC) the Supreme Court has held that "cross-examination is must
where Assessing Officer relies upon only on the statement of the Third Party
unconnected with the appellant. Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the letters,
dated 14.02.1955 and 09.03.1959, did not constitute any material evidence which
the Tribunal could legitimately taken into account for the purpose of arriving at
the finding that the amount of Rs. 1,07,350 was remitted by the assessee from its
Madras Office, and if these two letters were eliminated from consideration, there
was no material evidence at all before the Tribunal which could support its
finding. What the manager of the bank wrote in his letters could not possibly be
based on his personal knowledge but was based on here say. The revenue
authorities ought to have called upon the manager to produce the documents and
papers on the basis of which he made the statement and confronted the assessee
with those documents and papers." I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 30. In the case of Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. CIT reported in (1954)
26 ITR 775 (SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "the rule of law
on this subject has been fairly and rightly stated by the Lahore High Court in the
case of Seth Gurmukh Singh where it was stated that while proceeding under sub-
section (3) of section 23 , the Income-tax Officer, though not bound to rely on
evidence produced by the assessee as he considers to be false, yet if he proposes to
make an estimate in disregard of that evidence, he should in fairness disclose to
the assessee the material on which he is going to find that estimate; and that in
case he proposes to use against the assessee the result of any private inquiries
made by him, he must communicate to the assessee the substance of the
information so proposed to be utilized to such an extent as to put the assessee in
possession of full particulars of the case he is expected to meet and that he should
further give him ample opportunity to meet it." It was held in that case that "In
this case we are of the opinion that the Tribunal violated certain fundamental
rules of justice in reaching its conclusions. Firstly, it did not disclose to the
assessee what information had been supplied to it by the departmental
representative. Next, it did not give any opportunity to the company to rebut the
material furnished to it by him, and lastly, it declined to take all the material that
the assessee wanted to produce in support of its case. The result is that the assessee
had not had a fair hearing." 31. In Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. A. V. Visvanatha Sastri reported in
(1954) 26 ITR 1 (SC) the Supreme Court has held that "the assessment
proceedings before the Income-tax Officer are judicial proceedings and all the
incidents of such judicial proceedings have to be observed before any conclusion
is arrived at. The assessee has a right to inspect the record and all relevant Page 38 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

documents before he is called upon to lead evidence in rebuttal. This right has not
been taken away by any express provision of the Income Tax Act ." 32. In respect of the report of the Investigation Wing of the Department,
the appellant pointed out the said report nowhere states the name of the
appellant or the transaction of the appellant. The said investigation was
carried out in case of any other person and not in case of the appellant. In
the said investigation the transaction in question of the appellant was not
commented upon by the Investigation Wing and therefore the said
Investigation Wing report is not evidence to impeach the transaction of
the appellant. We find that the Ld. Departmental Representative could
not point out anything to show that the said Investigation report was
relied upon by ld. AO in the order of assessment was related to the
specific transaction of the appellant. In the circumstances, the said
Investigation Report wherein some other persons were found to be
involved in some manipulation does not establish that the appellant was
also involved in any manipulation. 33. Recently, Hon'ble High Court of Orissa in the case of PCIT vs.
Dipansu Mohapatra reported in [2023] 149 taxmann.com 99 (Orissa)
adjudicating similar case of exemption claimed u/s 10(38) of the Act and
the assessee was alleged to have taken accommodation entries from
Kolkata based companies on the basis of the report of Investigation Wing
of Income Tax Department. The relevant finding of the Hon'ble Court
dealing with the issue of opportunity of cross-examination and principles
of natural justice not given to the assessee held as follows: Therefore the Assessing Officer was bound to supply those
statements and allow the cross examination of the maker of the statements
to the assessee according to the judgement of the Hon'ble Calcutta High
Court in Swati Bajaj (supra) case as well as in view of the judgments of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs
Commissioner of Central Excise reported in [2016] 38 GSTR 117 (SC), Principal
Commissioner of Income Tax (Central) Vs Oriental Power Cables Ltd reported
in [2022] 143 taxmann.com 371 (SC), Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR 1980 14 SC
2117) and the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Eastern Commercial
Enterprise (1994) (Cal) [210 ITR 103]." 34. In view of the above discussion, we notice that so far as the
statement of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal is concerned who is the
director of one of the group companies namely M/s. Gateway Financial Page 40 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

Services Ltd. already stands retracted by him by filing affidavit before the
Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department and also as regards the
submissions of ld. D/R that proceedings under other Acts were carried
out in the case of Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal it was stated by ld. Counsel
for the assessee as an officer of Court that as on date no proceedings are
pending against Mr. Praveen Kumar Agarwal in regard to the alleged
transactions before any authorities other than Income Tax Department.
Even otherwise, we are not dealing with the case of Praveen Kumar
Agarwal. So far as the statements of remaining persons which have been
referred by ld. AOs in the assessment orders they have all either been
taken during the course of search/survey in some other cases or during
the course of any proceeding in the case of the company the shares of
which have been traded by the assessee(s), however, there is no
documentary evidence either placed by these persons during the course
of recording the statement or at any other stage which could show that
the assessee(s) were directly involved in the racket of providing
accommodation entries or were aware of such activities being carried out.
The claim of the assessee has always been that as a prudent investor it had
made the investments and some investments did not give any return
rather gave losses and, in some cases, profits were earned. It was
incumbent upon ld. AO to provide the assessee(s) a proper opportunity
of cross-examination with all those persons who stated to be either
involved in accommodation entries or were having some connection with
the alleged transactions. There was no opportunity with the assessee(s) to
cross-examine those persons, that why they have referred these Page 41 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

transactions as bogus or accommodation in nature. No such exercises
have been carried out at any stage by the Revenue authority. Though the
assessee has placed material on record to show that on merits also the case
of the assessee is strong and the alleged transactions have been carried
out through banking channel as well as through recognised stock
exchange and demat accounts and also it has been claimed that in one
case there is a loss and there is no addition u/s 68 of the Act but without
going into the merits of the case even on legal ground itself, we, in view
settled judicial procedure referred hereinabove, are inclined to hold that
there is a violation of principles of natural justice as opportunity of cross-
examination of all those persons whose statements though not directly
referred to the alleged transactions but the statements having been used
by ld. AO to make additions in the hands of the assessee(s) in appeal
before us, was not provided to the assessee(s) even though requested
during the course of hearing before the AO well as ld. CIT(A). Based on
these facts, we find merit in the contention of the ld. Counsel for the
assessee that principles of natural justice have been violated in the case of
all the four assessees namely M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd., M/s.
Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, Pinky Agarwal and Pratik Agarwal
Beneficiary Trust. 35. In the preceding paragraphs, we have dealt with the legal issue
regarding the matter that since the assessee has not been provided
sufficient opportunity to cross examine those persons who were directly
related to the assessee company i.e., Gateway Financial Services Ltd., and
other assessee(s) even when their statements have been relied heavily by Page 42 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

the Assessing Officers to deny the claim of short term capital loss /long-
term capital gains as the case may be, we note that apart from placing
reliance on the statements, the revenue authorities have also referred to
the report of the investigation Wing which carried out search and survey
in some other cases prior to the conclusion of assessment proceedings in
the instant appeals and such investigation included the persons who have
been alleged to be entry providers/operators, share brokers etc. 36. Now, before us in case of one of the assessee's, namely, Gateway
Financial Services Ltd., the issue relates to bogus short-term capital loss
from sale of equity shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd. and in the remaining
three cases the issue is regarding alleged bogus Long term capital gain
from sale of scrip, namely, Radford Global Ltd.. 37. Since the facts relating to claim of loss and gain are different, we will
first take up the issue regarding alleged bogus short-term capital alleged
by the AO in the case of Gateway Financial Services Ltd.. Though we have
discussed the facts of this issue in detail in the preceding paragraphs and
have also discussed the finding of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court
in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), wherein also there was a reference to the
report of the investigation Wing but in that case the issues were relating
to long-term capital gains and additions were made u/s 68 of the Act. But
in case of Gateway Financial Services Ltd., which is a share broking firm
as well as trader in equity shares and being assessed to tax for past many
years has dealt in the equity share, namely, Blue Circle Services Ltd.. Since
the AO has only disallowed the claim of bogus loss, it in itself means, that
the genuineness of purchases of equity shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd., Page 43 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

has not been disputed by the revenue authorities. The assessee in this case
has purchased 5232616 equity shares. The ld. AO has also referred to the
equity shares price chart of Blue Circle Services Ltd., wherein there is a
steep upward trend from 2011-12 onwards then a downward trend which
goes up to the end of 2013 and again there is an increase in trend during
2013-14 but not to that extent of the past trend of steep increase. The claim
of the assessee is that, looking at the trend of equity share, in the
anticipation of earning good profits it made the investment in equity
shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd., and there was some increase in the
price but subsequently it started decreasing and since the assessee did not
want to lose all its capital it sold the equity shares as and when it got the
opportunity. Even though, the transactions have been carried out on the
recognised stock exchange and well within the rules and regulations
provided by the SEBI, we note that in all the alleged statements of the
alleged third parties and the report of the investigation Wing there is
specifically no indication that whether the assessee was directly involved
with the promoters/directors of Blue Circle Services Ltd., for such a steep
increase/decrease of the prices. It prima facie seems to be a case where the
assessee has made an adventure in the business of trading in equity shares
being in the business of share trading and investment and shares
brokerage were given past many years. At this juncture when the
purchase of equity shares has not been doubted by the revenue
authorities, and the claim of the assessee is that it has entered into the
purchase and sale transactions in the regular course of business and also
considering the fact that it is not the case of earning long-term capital Page 44 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

gains for claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act, but is a case where the
assessee has lost its capital by incurring huge loss. This Tribunal in the
case of Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 2286/Kol/2019;
AY 2014-15; order dt. 27/06/2023, wherein the same combination of Judicial
and Accountant Member has dealt with the issue regarding the claim of
short term capital loss/business loss from sale of equity shares which was
alleged by the revenue authorities being arranged from penny stock
companies has decided in favour of the assessee after dealing with the
facts of the case, modus operandi of carrying out such transactions by the
assessee and also dealing with the judgement of the Hon'ble jurisdictional
High Court in the case of Principal CIT Vs Swati Bajaj 446 ITR 56 (Cal), and
also examining that the facts of the case are different with that of Swati
Bajaj (Supra) and the same being not applicable in the case and has held
as follows:- reported in [2019] 103 taxmann.com 48(SC) has taken note of the observations made by the
 Supreme Court in the the land mark case of " Kale Khan Mohammed Hanif v. CIT "[1963] 50 ITR 1 (SC) and"Roshan Di Hatti v. CIT " [1977] 107 ITR 938 (SC) laying down the
 proposition that the onus of proving the source of a sum of money found to have been received
 by an assessee, is on the assessee. Once the assessee has submitted the documents relating to
 identity, genuineness of the transaction, and credit-worthiness, then the AO must conduct an
 inquiry, and call for more details before invoking Section 68. If the Assessee is not able to
 provide a satisfactory explanation of the nature and source, of the investments made, it is open
 to the Revenue to hold that it is the income of the assessee, and there would be no further burden
 on the revenue to show that the income is from any particular source. Thereafter the hon'ble
 Supreme court summed up the principles, which emerged after deliberating upon various case
 laws, as under: I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
9.1 The Hon'ble Supreme court, thus, has held that once the assessee has submitted the
documents relating to identity, genuineness of the transaction, and credit-worthiness of the
 i. The assessee is under a legal obligation to prove the genuineness of the transaction,
 the identity of the creditors, and credit-worthiness of the investors who should have the financial
 capacity to make the investment in question, to the satisfaction of the AO, so as to discharge the
 primary onus. ii. The Assessing Officer is duty bound to investigate the credit-worthiness of the
 creditor/subscriber, verify the identity of the subscribers, and ascertain whether the transaction
 is genuine, or these are bogus entries of name-lenders. iii. If the enquiries and investigations reveal that the identity of the creditors to be
 dubious or doubtful, or lack credit-worthiness, then the genuineness of the transaction would not
 be established. subscribers, then the AO is duty bound conduct to conduct an independent enquiry to verify
the same. Once the assessee having discharged initial burden upon him to furnish the evidences
to prove the identity and creditworthiness of the share subscribers and genuineness of the
transaction, the burden shifts upon the Assessing Officer to examine the evidences furnished
and even make independent inquiries and thereafter to state that on what account he was not
satisfied with the details and evidences furnished by the assessee and confronting with the same
to the assessee. 9.2 The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court, however, in the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors
(supra) has observed that to prove the allegations a logical process of reasoning from the totality
of the attending facts and circumstances surrounding is to be adopted. That it is the duty of the
Court to take note of the immediate and proximate facts and circumstances surrounding the
events on which the charges/allegations are founded so as to reach a reasonable conclusion and
the test would be what inferential process that a reasonable/prudent man would apply to arrive
at a conclusion. Further proximity and time and prior meeting of minds is also a very important
factor. A holistic approach is required to be made and the test of preponderance of probabilities
has to be applied. The Hon'ble High Court observed that the assessees therein had failed to
justify the rationale behind investment in the companies not having financial worth. They had
failed to establish genuineness of steep rise in price of shares within a short period of time that
too when general market trend was recessive. That the ld. Assessing Officer has pointed out
that the assessee could not explain, why it invested in such script without knowing the financial
performance of the company. That such cannot be case of intelligent investment or simple and
straight case of tax planning to gain benefit of long term capital gains earnings @ 491% over
period of 5 months which is beyond human probability and defies business logic of any business
enterprises dealing with share transactions. Even brokers who coordinated transactions were
also unknown to assessee. All these facts give credence to unreliability of entire transaction of
shares giving rise to such capital gains ratio. That the Assessing officer was justified in making
the additions on the basis of the material available on record, the surrounding circumstances,
the human conduct and preponderance of probabilities. 10. Now, we have to examine the contentions of the assessee in the light of the ratio of law
laid down by the hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of "NRA steels" ( Supra ) and by the
Calcutta High Court in the case of " Swati Bajaj "(supra). 10.1 The plea of the assessee in this case is that the assessee was bona fide purchaser of the
shares in question. That the assessee had duly taken note of the financials and share price
movement of the companies before purchasing the shares.The ld. counsel in this respect has Page 46 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
referred to the financials of the said companies, the market trend and the reasons to exit as
mentioned in the written submissions as reproduced above. firstly referred to the financial
details and share price movement of Rutron International Ltd. It has been submitted that
Rutron International Ltd. was a listed public company. The assessee company took note of the
annual reports. The said company had reported total assets of 17.88 for F.Y 2012-13 and its
turnover and proceeds had improved substantially from its previous years. Its income has also
increased substantially. It reported net profit of Rs.0.50 Crores in FY 2012-13 as against
Rs.0.11 Crores in FY 2011-12 implying an increment of 354.54%. The stock even started
declaring dividends (Equity Dividend of Rs.0.18 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against NIL in FYE
Mar'12, Mar'11 and Mar'10 implying a trend reversal and a dividend payout of 36%). That
having regard to these fundamentals of Rutron, the assessee company had purchased shares in
a staggered manner in January 2014 in anticipation of trading profits. The purchase of the stock
was motivated not only by the dividend but the anticipated price rise. However, since the stock
of Rutron was in a sustained fall and therefore like any prudent trader, the company purchased
the stock only when its price fell substantially. However, when it became apparently clear that
the financials of Rutorn were not indicative of future financial performance of the stock, the
assessee company, being a prudent trader switched gears and immediately cut short its losses
by exiting its position in Rutron. The ld. AR, therefore, has demonstrated that the investments
in these shares were governed on commercial prudence. 10.2 The Ld. Counsel has further demonstrated that the Trades in Comfort Fincap Ltd.
('Comfort') shares, were also based on the company's own reading of the financial statements
of the said company. That its stock parameters had improved from its previous reporting period.
(Total Assets of Rs.25.23 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.21.49 Crores in FYE Mar'12;
Operating Profit of Rs.1.83 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs..86 Crore in FYE Mar'12;
Reported Net Profit of Rs.0.99 Crore in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.59 Crore in FYE Mar'12
implying an increment of 67.79% ) and the stock even started declaring dividends whose trend
showed a marked upward trajectory (Equity Dividend of Rs.0.54 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as
against Rs.0.22 Crore in FYE Mar'12 and NIL in FYE Mar'11 and Mar'10 implying a trend
reversal and a dividend payout of 59.60%). The purchase of the stock was timed in anticipation
of the expected price action that usually follows in such stocks showing a reversal in dividend
payout trend. That the shares of Comfort (still Comfort Fincap Ltd 535267) were purchased
in a staggered manner in January 2014 in anticipation of trading profits and the same were
sold, again in a staggered manner, in March 2014 when the trade went awry. The stock of
Comfort was also in a steep fall when the company purchased it. However, the company
purchased the stocks only when the price fall was sustained over a period of time. It is notable
that the company did not enter/exit at the highest/lowest price and the trades in shares of
Comfort were entered into on the basis of the trend visible in the then latest financials of the
stock available publicly. 10.3 Regarding the third company, it has been demonstrated that Luminaire Technologies
Ltd. ('Luminaire'), was a listed public company at the relevant time. That the shares of
Luminaire were purchased in a staggered manner in January and February 2014 in
anticipation of trading profits and the same were sold on the 5th of March 2014. The stock of
Luminaire was also in a steep fall when the company purchased it. However, the company
purchased the stocks only when the price fall was arrested and a trend reversal was visible.
However, the favourable technical analysis of the stock, which prompted the company to
purchase the stock, did not lead to the anticipated price rise owing to the weak market outlook
regarding the stock. The company, having entered the trade to profit in the immediate short
term, immediately chose to cut short its losses as the stock price deteriorated further. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
10.4 Regarding the decision to trade in the stock of Unno Industries Ltd., the ld. Counsel
has explained that the same was based on the company's own reading of the financials of Unno,
which was a listed public company at the relevant time. That the trade was undertaken based
on the not only the fundamentals but also the technical aspects of the stock. The shares of Unno
were purchased on 22nd January 2014 in anticipation of trading profits and the same were sold
on 20th March 2014 when there was an indicator for a further decline in the prices of a stock.
That the stock of Unno was in a steep fall and the company had purchased the stock only when
its price fell substantially. That the company did not enter/exit at the highest/lowest price and
the trades in Unno were entered into only after carefully considering both the technical and
fundamental aspects of the stock. The trend visible in the then latest financials of the stock
available publicly was upbeat. That Unno had reported Total Assets of Rs.42.55 Crores for FYE
Mar'13 and its turnover and profit had remained stable over the years despite the falling prices
in the market. Unno had a Turnover of Rs.0.65 Crore both in FYE Mar'13 and FYE Mar'12;
Total Income of Rs.0.65 Crore in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.67 Crore in FYE Mar'12;
Reported Net Profit of Rs.0.07 Crore in both FYE Mar'13 and FYE Mar'12 implying a marked
stability in financial performance in the recent years. However, the head and shoulders pattern
on the stock charts implied an oncoming decline in the stock prices, therefore, the assessee
company immediately sold the stock to avoid further loss. 10.5 In case of Global Infratech& Finance Ltd. ('Global') shares, it has been explained that
the trade was undertaken based on the parameters which clearly set out both the logic and
rationale behind the trades. The stock of Global was also in a steep fall when the company
purchased it.The shares of Global were purchased in a staggered manner in February 2014 in
anticipation of trading profits and the same were sold, again in a staggered manner, in March
2014. However, the company purchased the stock only when the price fall was sustained over a
period of time. That the stock parameters had improved from its previous reporting period (Total
Assets of Rs.56.62 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.20.90 Crores in FYE Mar'12;
Operating Profit of Rs.1.49 Crores in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.01 Crore in FYE Mar'12;
Reported Net Profit of Rs.1.05 Crore in FYE Mar'13 as against Rs.0.08 Crore in FYE Mar'12
implying an increment of 1,212.50% and trend reversal). The company, being a prudent trader,
did not only rely on the financials of Global to make its decisions in the market. It was also
prone to keep tabs on the technical aspects of the stock to pre-empt market movements in it.
Envisaging a further fall in the stock prices owing to its interpretation of the deteriorating
technical parameters of Global even in the face of robust fundamentals, the company sought to
exit its position in the stock completely for the time being. 10.6 It has been further explained that the SEBI has also investigated regarding the
allegation of share trading in respect of two companies out of the above mentioned 5 companies.
In the case of Rutron, only 14 persons were suspected to be involved in price rigging who were
restrained from accessing the security market for a period of 6 months. Neither the assessee nor
his share brokers were ever named for restrain from trading in the said scrip. Even, the company
itself was not implicated of any wrong doing. Any other person, except the aforesaid 14 persons,
was not restrained for trading in the shares in the said company. The second company
investigated was Global Infratech&Finance Ltd, in respect of which, only 46 specific
persons/entities were found guilty of price manipulation in shares of the said company after
detailed investigation. That some of the entities had inter alia questioned the act of SEBI in not
holding all persons/entities who had traded in the shares of Global Infratech and Finance
Limited to be artificial or suspicious. However, the SEBI in their Order had specifically observed
that only the promoters and/or their connected entities were found to be guilty of price
manipulation and that the unrelated entities were not to be made party to these proceedings. It Page 48 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
has been further submitted that in respect of other three companies, the SEBI did not choose to
make any investigation and there is no action taken by the SEBI against the other three
companies namely Comfort Fincap Ltd, Luminaire Technologies Ltd and Unno Industries Ltd.
It has been submitted that no adverse orders ever have been passed by the SEBI regarding price
manipulation in respect of aforesaid three companies. The Ld. Counsel, therefore has submitted
that the facts of the case of the assessee, when considered in the light of the proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble supreme Court in the case of NRA Steel (supra) and of the hon'ble
Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), the evidence furnished by the assessee,
the surrounding circumstances would show that the assessee's decision to invest in those
companies was based on business prudence and that there was no evidence, even circumstantial,
that the assessee was involved in price rigging or otherwise instrumental to book bogus short
term capital loss. 11. The Ld. Counsel has further submitted that the facts of the case of the assessee were
quiet distinguishable from that of the cases of "Swati Bajaj & others"(supra). He has submitted
that in most of the cases before the Hon'ble High Court, the purchases were off the Stock
Exchange/private placements. That there were orders of SEBI suspending the scrip and/or
wherein the concerned trader were found guilty of price manipulation. Further, that there were
statements recorded from the brokers of the assessees, who had admitted to have indulged in
price manipulation and therefore adverse view was taken. That in the specific facts before the
hon'ble High Court, it was noted that the price of the scrips showed steep increase during
recessive trends and therefore the movement in prices was held to be ingenuine. That the
Hon'ble High Court had observed that the onus was on the assessee to establish that the price
rise was genuine in light of the fundamentals of the scrip. However, in case of the assessee, the
trades were made on the Stock Exchange. There was no adverse statement of assessee's broker.
Moreover the Director of the assessee was examined and confronted with the allegations u/s
131 of the Act and he had specifically denied the same. That the assessee has sufficiently
demonstrated that the financial results and the fundamentals of the scripswas mirrored in their
price movements and therefore it was not a case that the movement in prices was not
explained.Evenas demonstrated above, in three (3) out of the five (5) scrips, there were no
adverse orders of SEBI regarding any kind of price manipulation. Further in the remaining two
scrips, the SEBI upon completion of investigation found specific entities/persons guilty of
manipulation. The Ld. Counsel has further submitted that in the similar facts and
circumstances, the coordinate benches of the Tribunal have opined in favour of the assessees
therein. 12. We find force in the contentions raised by the ld. counsel for the assessee. Firstly, in
this case, the assessee has not claimed long-term capital gains on account of unrealistic steep
rise in the share prices of these scrips traded in as was in the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors
(supra). The Hon'ble High Court had held, under the circumstances, that the burden was upon
the assessee to explain the business prudence of investment in these scrips of the companies
having negligible financial worth and thereafter of steep rise in their share price resulting into
huge capital gains within a short span of time. The case before us is of business loss in share
trading. The assessee, as observed above, has duly explained the factors and considerations
which prevailed for making decision by the assessee company of purchasing in the aforesaid five
scrips, which included their financial worth, the market position, their income, dividends etc.
Further, it was not a case that the shares shown to have been purchased off market/privately
and thereafter they were put into demat account after sufficient lapse of time from the alleged
date of physical purchase and then sale of the same within a short span of time after they were
accounted in the demat account, gaining high monetary capital gains. In the case of the assessee, Page 49 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
the shares were traded on the stock exchange, the same were kept in the demat account of the
assessee. There is no allegation of involvementof the assessee or even his share broker in any
type of price rigging. There even does not seem any probability of meeting minds of the assessee
and/or his share broker and the promoters of the companies. A very peculiar fact which is noted
from the assessment order/investigation wing report is that in the list of the persons whose
statement was allegedly recorded and who in their statement have admitted of price rigging,
the names of share brokers, entry operators and exit providers have been mentioned. The
facts on the file itself show that there was meeting of minds of the entry operators and the share
brokers and exit providers. The price rigging was done by giving benefit to various subscribers
with connivance of share brokers and the motive was to convert their unaccounted money into
tax exempt long-term capital gains and for that purpose, there were certain persons chosen as
exit providers who would buy shares when the share prices would be at its peak and those exit
providers thereafter would suffer losses on account of fall in the price of the shares. This specific
fact on the file shows that the exit providers were already chosen to execute the plan. The motive
was to give the benefit of bogus long-term capital gains to various beneficiaries and to make
that plan foolproof, the exit providers were already chosen with a pre-determined planning as
to at what stage the beneficiaries of bogus long-term capital gains would be given exit. That
perhaps was not dependent upon chance exit providers willing to book bogus short-term capital
loss. Neither the name of the assessee nor of his share broker is mentioned in the list of exit
providers. The circumstances of this case do not suggest of unnatural and unrealistic human
conduct. The Assessing Officer in this case has not pointed out any adverse evidence against
the assessee. He has simply relied upon the investigation report which is a general investigation
report. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of PCIT vs. Swati Bajaj &Ors (supra) has
considered the said report and analysed the same vis-a-vis circumstantial evidences like the
negligible financial worth of the companies whose shares were traded in, the unrealistic steep
hike in the share prices as against the recessive market trend and the failure of the assessee to
explain the commercial prudence for making such huge investments. The additions thus have
been made on the basis of circumstantial evidences and considering the preponderance of
probabilities. Hon'ble Supreme Court in PadmasundraRao v. State of T.N. 255 ITR 147 (SC)
has held that circumstantial flexibility, e.g. one additional or different fact, may make a world
of difference between conclusions in two cases: The Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of "Flipkart India (P.) Ltd. v/s Assistant
Commissioner of Income-tax ", [2017] 79 taxmann.com 159 (Karnataka) has observed that
considering the fact that this blind appreciation of a precedent is a frequent occurrence, in
catena of cases, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly opined that a judgment should not be
read as a provision of law. A judgment is confined to the facts and circumstances of its own
case. It is only when the facts and circumstances in two cases are similar that the ratio of the
former case becomes applicable to the latter case. As discussed above, in the absence of any direct incriminating evidence against the assessee,
the distinguishable and weak circumstantial evidence, in our view, do not suggest the
preponderance of probability of the assessee being involved in price rigging of the scrips or being Page 50 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 the predetermined and pre planned beneficiary of the devised scheme, therefore, the impugned
 additions are not warranted in this case, and the same are accordingly ordered to be deleted." 38. Respectfully following the above decision of this Tribunal in the
case of Raigarh Jute & Textile Mills Ltd. vs. ACIT (supra), which is squarely
applicable on the facts of the instant case of assessee i.e., M/s. Gateway
Financial Services Ltd., we find that the alleged loss has been incurred by
the assessee in the regular course of its business. We also note that the
statement of various persons recorded by the AO/investigation
wing/search team in the course of other proceedings as well as the report
of the Kolkata investigation wing, there is no reference to a direct
evidence indicating that the transactions in question is in the nature of
accommodation entry or for arranging bogus loss. Thus, the
addition/disallowance made by the assessee is merely on the basis of
preponderance of probabilities. Therefore, in the present case, when the
statements and investigation report relied upon by the AO has not been
given to the assessee for the purpose of cross-examination as well as
rebuttal, we in view of the above decision are inclined to hold that the
alleged loss being genuine loss from share trading incurred by the
assessee in regular course of business, deserves to be allowed. Thus,
impugned disallowance is uncalled for. 39. Now so far as the remaining three appeals are concerned, namely,
M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, Pinky Agarwal and Pratik
Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, the addition is only on account of alleged
bogus Long term capital gain exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act from sale of
the scrip, namely, Radford Global Ltd.. The ld. D/R in the details
submissions filed on two occasions has contended that the company from Page 51 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

which the gains has arisen are penny stock company in which with the
help of entry operators the prices are rigged high and low and they are
not commensurate with the business activity of this company and these
are sham transactions just to get accommodation entry in the form of Long
term capital gain and claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. We are
conscious of the fact that in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), the issue was
similar regarding the claim of bogus Long term capital gain and the
addition was made for u/s 68 of the Act for the sum received from the
sale of equity shares by the assessee. However, apart from the statement
recorded by the third parties in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra), there was a
detailed investigation report as per which the SEBI came across 84
companies which were primarily found to be engaged in providing
accommodation entry and the SEBI barred the trading of equity shares of
such companies on the stock exchange and accordingly SEBI started
investigation in the matter. Based on such primary investigation by the
SEBI, the investigation team of the income tax department took note of
such report and carried out further investigation. The fact remains that
based on the preliminary report framed by the SEBI, regarding the 84
companies all the further proceedings took its course including the search
and surveys at various share brokers as well as offices of various
companies. So far as the case in hand is concerned, there is a long term
capital gain from sale of equity shares of Radford Global Ltd.. Before us,
the ld. Counsel for the assessee has placed a copy of the final order by a
whole time member of SEBI framed under sections 11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of
the SEBI Act, 1992 and the same is in regard to SEBIT (Prohibition of Page 52 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market)
Regulations, 2003, in the matter of Radford Global Limited and the same
is in respect of 29 entities which includes the three assessees in appeal
before us, namely, M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, Pinky Agarwal
and Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust. Though this order contains 111
pages, but the relevant part of the issue under consideration firstly starts
from page number 1 to 9 of the said order, wherein brief facts are given
about the said case regarding the investigation conducted to the trading
and dealings of scrip of Radford Global Limited for the period
27/02/2012 to 24/03/2014 hereinafter referred to as the investigation
period. This is the same period during which the assessees have earned
long-term capital gains referred in the instant appeals. The para 1 to 9 of
the said order of the Whole Time Member of SEBI, reads as follows:- The net LTP increase contribution by 41 sellers amounted to 238.15. 8. Analysis of trading pattern of sellers who singly or with connected entities contributed
 more than 5% to increase in LTP revealed that the price rise in Patch 1 was caused
 majorly by 5 sellers viz, Rajeev Garg, Sangita Pramod Harlalka, Shailesh Lalman Ojha, Page 55 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Artiben S. Kansara and Manisha Jayesh Shah. These sellers were observed to have placed
 sell orders for small quantity when large quantity of buy orders were pending and they
 were holding sizeable number of tradable RGL shares. 9. Based on UCC database of BSE, MCA database, off-market data and bank statements (of
 entities contributing to more than 5%), sellers Artiben S. Kansara and Manisha Jayesh
 Shah were found to be connected to each other. As per KYC, Manisha Jayesh Shah has
 common address and phone number with her relative and independent director of RGL viz,
 Manish Nareshchandra Shah (Address - B-2, Vishwakarma Society, V.P. Road, Andheri
 West, Mumbai - 400058 and phone number - 26280622). 10. The summary of order log analysis of the 5 sellers contributing to more than 5% LTP
 increase, is as under: iv. It was observed that Noticees - Artiben S. Kansara and Manisha Jayesh Shah are
 connected to each other. Artiben S. Kansara contributed Rs.7.84 (3.18%) of market
 positive LTP increase in 8 trades for 8 shares. All LTP increases were contributed by
 Artiben S. Kansara through executing first trades of the day. There are 2 non-first trades
 of Artiben S. Kansara for 1 share each with no LTP contribution. Further, Manisha
 Jayesh Shah contributed Rs.6.05 (2.45% of market positive LTP increase in 15 trades for
 19 shares. All LTP increase was contributed by Manish Jayesh Shah through executing
 first trades of the day. Thus, Artiben S. Kansara and Manisha Jayesh Shah together
 contributed Rs. 13.89 (5.63%) of market positive LTP increase in 23 trades for 27 shares.
 Artiben S. Kansara executed 2 trades for 1 share each both on 16/06/2012 and
 24/06/2012. However, she contributed to positive LTP in only first trades on each of
 these days. Manisha Jayesh executed 2 trades for 1 share each on 22/06/2012, 3 trades
 for 1 share each on 26/06/2012, 4 trades for 1 share each on 27/06/2012, 5 trades for 1
 share each on 28/06/2012 and 6 trades for 1 share each on 29/06/2012. However, she
 contributed to positive LTP in only first trades on each of these days. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 11. It is observed that the above named 5 Noticees placed sell orders for small quantity when
 large quantity of buy orders were pending and they were holding sizeable number of
 tradable RGL shares. Despite holding substantial number of shares and there being large
 buy demand for RGL shares, the above 5 sellers chose to sell only 470 shares during Patch
 1 with each sale order ranging from 1-20 shares (with an exception of one trade of Rajeev
 Garg for 100 shares). 12. It was alleged in the SCN that such a trading pattern in illiquid scrip like RGL, indicates
 that the 5 sellers played a major role in manipulating the price of the scrip, thereby
 resulting in 60.09% increase in positive LTP of the RGL scrip during Patch 1. It was
 further alleged in the SCN that the 5 Noticees namely, Rajeev Garg, (Noticee no .27)
 Sangita Pramod Harlalka (Noticee no. 28), Shailesh Lalman Ojha (Noticee no 29),
 Artiben S. Kansara (Noticee no 25) and Manisha Jayesh Shah (Noticee no.26) sold shares
 in the market in very small quantities with a manipulative intent to increase the scrip
 price and thereby violated sections 12(a) ,(b) and (c) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with
 regulations 3(a),(b),(c),(d) and 4(1), 4(2)(a) & (e) of SEBI (PFUTP) Regulations, 2003. Observations regarding Patch 2- (29/01/2013-23/07/2013) (Post-split price rise patch) 13. Investigation revealed that during Patch 2, there were total 85301 trades for 60397726
 shares. The price of the scrip opened at Rs.49.2, reached a high of Rs. 86 and closed at Rs.
 75 i.e., an increase of Rs 25.8 (52.44%) during Patch 2. 14. Investigation revealed that a group of 24 connected entities (16 buyers and 8 sellers
 hereinafter collectively referred to as 'connected group entities') have contributed Rs. 23.35
 (7.77%) of market positive LTP increase during Patch 2. The details of the connections of
 the 24 entities are as follows: Ltd. (AAACR1770P)
2 Pyramid Trading 1. RGL has fund transactions with Pyramid Trading and
 and Finance Ltd. Finance Ltd. presently known as - 2. Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd. has fund transactions
 Mishka Finance with Dhanleela Investments & Trading Company Ltd. and Pine
 and Animation Ltd. 3 Pine Animation Ltd. 1. Pine Animation Ltd. (A/c. No. 50103075412 - Allahabad
 (AAECM0267A) Bank,) has fund transactions with Dhanleela Investment & Page 57 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

 Trading Company Ltd. and Pyramid Trading and Finance Ltd.
4 Bazigar Trading Pvt. 1. One entity Amrit Sales Promotion Pvt. Ltd. bank account
 Ltd. no. 00060340006382, has fund transactions with Blue Circle
 (AABCB3052B) Services Ltd., Burlington Finance Ltd. and Symphony Merchant
 Pvt. Ltd. 2. As per MCA database, Hanuman Mal Tater, is common
 Director in Amrit Sales Promotion, Burlington Finance and
 Bazigar Trading. 3. As per MCA database, Panna Lal Maloo, is common
 Director in Amrit Sales Promotion Pvt. Ltd., Manimudra
 Vincom and Symphony Merchant. 4. Blue Circle Services Ltd. (AAACB2131L) has fund
 transactions with Pint Animation Ltd. and Amrit Sales
 Promotion Pvt. Ltd. 5 Avlokan Dealcom 1. One entity Rangan Vincom transferred shares in off- Pvt. Ltd. market to Devatma Distributors
 (AALCA1583G) 2. As per MCA, Rangan Vincom, Ladios Trading and
 Avlokan Dealcom have common director viz. Debendra Das 3. As per the MCA, Rangan Vincom and Katyani
 Commodities have common address viz, 4, N.S Road, 1st Floor,
 Kolkata -700001. Rangan Vincom transferred shares in off-market
 to Devatma Distributors 4. Devatma Distributors and Anjali Suppliers have common
 director viz. Raj Kumar Dabriwal, Annex G and common address
 viz. 2E, Cornfield Road, Ground Floor, Kolkata - 700 019. 5. From Anjali Suppliers A/c.6611227263, with Kotak
 Mahindra Bank, fund transactions with Sirpur Marketing Pvt.
 Ltd. was observed. Sirpur Marketing received Rs. 75 lakh from
 RGL through Scan Infrastructure Ltd on 13/02/2012. 6 Praveen Kumar 1. As per MCA, Chiranjit Mahanta is the common director
 Agarwal in Kingfisher Properties, Topwell Properties, Esquire Enclave,
 (ACSPA4725A) Shivkhori Construction, Limestone Properties and Natural
7 Pinky Agarwal Housing. (ACGPA7438L) 2. From Topwell Properties Axis Bank A/c.
8 Praveen Kumar No.911020032366261, fund transactions with Kingfisher
 Agarwal HUF Properties, Esquire Enclave, Radison Properties, Shivkhori
 (AAIHP6229C) Construction, Limestone Properties, Natural Housing, Signet
9 Nishit Agarwal Vinimay and Sanklap Vincom were observed. Beneficiary Trust 3. From Kingfisher Properties Axis Bank A/c.
 (AABTN3350K) No.911020032345837, fund transactions with Esquire Enclave,
10 Pratik Agarwal Radison Properties Shivkhori Construction, Natural Housing,
 Beneficiary Trust Topwell Properties, Apex Commotrade, Runicha Merchants,
 (AABTP7516K) Spice Merchants and Divyadrishti Merchants were observed. 4. Praveen Kumar Agarwal and Pinky Agarwal are the
 authorised signatory in the bank account of Nishit Agarwal Page 58 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

 Beneficiary Trust, Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust and Jupiter
 Brokerage Services Ltd. 5. Esquire Enclave Pvt. Ltd. bank A/c. No.
 911020031723278 (Axis Bank) has fund transactions with
 Kingfisher Properties Pvt. Ltd. (AAECK3394G), Topwell
 Properties Pvt. Ltd. (AADCT8403C), Radison Properties Pvt.
 Ltd. (AAFCR2818B), Shivkhori Construction Private Limited
 (AAPCS7850L), Limestone Properties Pvt. Ltd. (AACCL0133G),
 Natural Housing Pvt. Ltd. (AADCN6251G), Praveen Kumar
 Agarwal (ACSPA4725A, Divyadrishti Traders Pvt. Ltd.
 (AABCD8146J), Apex Commotrade Pvt. Ltd. (AAJCA4459K)
 and Jupiter Brokerage Services Ltd. 6. Pinky Agarwal and Praveen Kumar Agarwal are directors
 in Jupiter Brokerage Services Ltd. Jupiter Brokerage Services
 (Axis Bank A/c. No.911020047397153,) had received Rs. 1.2 crore
 from Esquire Enclave on 07/02/2012 and further transferred
 Rs.30 lakh each to (sr. no. 6), (sr. no. 7), (sr. no. 9) and (sr. no. 10), to subscribe the preferential allotment of RGL. Jupiter
 Brokerage Services also has fund transactions with Praveen
 Kumar Agarwal HUF (sr. no. 8). Thus, sr. no. 6 to sr. no. 10 are
 related and connected to Esquire Enclave Pvt. Ltd. 7. As per Divyadrishti Merchants bank A/c. no. 000605010065 with ICICI Bank, fund transactions with
 Divyadrishti Traders, Dhanraksha Vincom, Ridhi Vincom and
 Kingfisher Properties were observed. 8. RGL had fund transfer with to Scan Infrastructure Ltd.,
 Scan had fund transfer with Sirpur Marketing Pvt. Ltd., Sirpur
 had fund transfer with Gaungour Suppliers, which in turn had
 fund transfer with Divyadrishti Traders Pvt Ltd. (Bank A/c of
 Scan, Sirpur, Gaungour 9. Divyadrishti Trader Pvt Ltd. and Esquire Enclave Pvt.
 Ltd. Limited have fund transaction
11 Runicha Merchants 1. As per MCA database, Abhiset Basu and Pradip Dey are the
 Pvt. Ltd. directors in Runicha Merchants, Signet Vinimay, Winall
 (AAECR0580M) Vinimay, Sanklap Vincom, SKM Travels and Scope Vyapar. 2.
12 Signet Vinimay Pvt. Winall Vinimay (A/c.No.07920200006026 DCB Bank has fund
 Ltd. transaction with Apex Commotrade , Spice Merchant, Signet
 (AAMCS1712Q Vinimay, Runicha Merchant, Sankalp Vincom.
13 Winall Vinimay Pvt. 3. Runicha Merchants has fund transaction with Kingfisher
 Ltd. Properties, and fund transactions with Topwell Properties and
 (AAACW8004B) Spice Merchants. 14 Sanklap Vincom Pvt. Ltd. (AAMCS1711P)
15 SKM Travels Pvt. I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. 18 Spice Merchants Pvt. 1. Shakuntala Sah and Aman Sah are the directors in Spice
 Ltd. Merchants and Apex Commotrade. (AAPCS7492G) 2. From Apex Commotrade ICICI Bank A/c. No
9 Apex Commotrade 62770550383 fund transactions with Runicha Merchants, Signet
 Pvt. Ltd. Vinimay, Sanklap Vincom, Spice Merchants, Daga Infocom,
 (AAJCA4459K) SKM Travels, Scope Vyapar and Winall Vinimay were observed. 3. Spice Merchants (Kotak Mahindra A/c. 68011001873) has fund
 transaction with Sanklap Vincom and Rander Corporation
20 Daga Infocom Pvt. Krupa B. Mehta is the Director in Daga Infocom Pvt Ltd and
 Ltd. Shefali Investments Pvt Ltd. Daga Infocom has fund transactions
 (AABCD9604P) with Apex Commotrade & Apex Commotrade has fund
 transaction with Kingfisher Properties. 21 Devakantha Trading 1. Devakantha Trading bank A/c. No. 36040200000553
 Pvt. Ltd. (Bank of Baroda has fund transactions with Shelter Sales Agency,
 (AADCD7044B) Udbal Mercantile and Amrusha Mercantile.
22 Shelter Sales 2. From Shelter Sales Agency Induslnd Bank A/c. No.
 Agency Pvt. Ltd. 200999036626, fund transferred with Spice Merchants was
 (AASCS1797F) observed
23 Udbal Mercantile
 Pvt. Ltd. 15. It is observed that the 16 buyers of connected group entities contributed Rs.74.85 to net
 increase in LTP and Rs.116 of positive LTP increase (i.e.38.56% of the total market
 positive LTP) in 1420 trades for 11,83,458 shares. 16. Investigation revealed that out of the 1420 positive LTP trades of the 16 buyer mentioned
 above, in 379 trades for 2,24,612 shares, the counterparties were connected to the buyers. 17. The details of positive LTP increase contribution by the counterparties (8 sellers) are Page 60 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

given below: 57. In light of the above observations of the Hon'ble Court, in absence of any direct evidence
 to that effect, meeting of minds between the buyer and seller can be proved considering
 the preponderance of probabilities, which essentially would require assessment of the
 circumstances such as proximity of placement of orders, repetitive nature of trades, the
 volume of trades, etc. In the present case, however, no circumstances have been brought
 out in the SCN to suggest that the intra-group buyers and sellers had a prior meeting
 of minds and in furtherance thereof they executed the trades which resulted in the
 positive LTP contribution of 7.77%. 58. In addition to the above, the following facts and circumstances also emerge from the
 SCN: I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust 41. From going through the above decision , we find that the Whole
Time Member, had given a categorical observation that the alleged price
manipulation like the one in the case before the SEBI, direct evidence of
such price manipulation is not always possible to be found and a holistic
consideration of the relevant facts and circumstances such as trading
patterns of the entities, trading behaviour, linkages/connections amongst
the entities, prevailing conditions in the market, liquidity in the scrip, etc.
can establish the violation. In the case of Radford Global Ltd., all the 29
entities referred in the said order, which includes the assessee(s) appeals
before us, the directions given by SEBI in the interim order dt. 19/12/2014
which was confirmed by the order dt. 26/08/2016, were revoked and it
has been further held that, the holistic consideration of the factors as
discussed in earlier paragraphs does not lead, on the preponderance of
probability basis, to the violations as alleged in the show cause notice qua
Notices no. 1 to 24. It is also held that there in absence of any direct
evidence to the effect meeting of minds between the buyer and seller can
be proved considering the preponderance of probabilities, which
essentially would require assessment of the circumstances such as
proximity of placement of orders, repetitive nature of trades, the volume
of trades, etc. It is also observed in the present case that no circumstances
have been brought out to suggest that the intra-group buyer had a prior
meeting of minds and in furtherance thereof they executed the trades of
the alleged transactions. 42. On going through the said order of Whole Time Member of SEBI,
we find that though the primary investigation was carried out by the SEBI Page 68 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

and show cause notices were issued to the assessee(s) in appeal before us,
after detailed examination/investigation and after having considered all
the relevant facts and circumstances, a Whole Time Member of SEBI has
given a categorical finding of fact that the assessee(s) were not involved
in the racket of arranging/providing bogus Long term capital gain and
transactions which led to earning of alleged Long term capital gain have
been carried out within the four corners of the rules and regulations
provided by the SEBI and having been carried out on the stock exchange
platform and transactions have been settled through banking channels.
We thus, find that at the time of making the impugned additions, there
were only third party statements and report of the investigation wing
referring to some entry operators and share brokers but there was no
direct evidence doubting the genuineness of the said transactions and the
additions are made only on the basis of preponderance of probabilities
theory. Similar type of additions were also made in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra) and Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court decided in favour of the
revenue. However, in the case of assessee(s) in appeal before us, facts are
distinguishable because specific enquiry has been conducted by the SEBI
regarding the facts of the case i.e., all the transactions carried out by the
assessee(s) in appeal before us for the purchase and sale of equity shares
of Radford Global Ltd.. These have been examined by an Authority which
provides the platform for carrying out the share trading/purchase and
sale of transactions and after extensive enquiry, assessee(s) in appeal
before us have been exonerated from the alleged charges. It has been held
that there is no direct evidence which could indicate that buyers and Page 69 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

sellers had pre-planned the said transactions and in other words, the
complete theory of preponderance of probabilities adopted by assessing
officer has attained oblivion. Therefore, under these given facts, the
judgment of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Swati
Bajaj (supra), are not applicable, as the facts of the case are distinguishable
so far as the assesse(s) in appeal before us are concerned. 43. Further, the recent decision of the Ahmedabad Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of ITO vs. M/s. Gokuldham Enterprise LLDP in ITA No.
675/Ahd/2018, order dt. 11/01/2023, has been cited by the assessee, wherein
the issue is also related to bogus Long term capital gain from sale of equity
shares of alleged penny stock companies. In this case, the Tribunal has
discussed about the final order of the SEBI and has also distinguished the
facts of the case referring to the judgement of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj (supra) and has confirmed the order
of the ld. CIT(A), deleting the addition made on account of alleged bogus
Long term capital gains. The relevant finding of the Tribunal, reads as
follows:- M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 gains of Rs.8,90,28,838/-. Accordingly, the grounds of the appeal of the Revenue
 are dismissed." 44. Thus, to conclude we hold that firstly the principles of natural
justice have been violated while carrying out the assessment proceedings
in the case of the assessee(s) since no opportunity for cross-examination
was provided for those persons whose statements have been relied upon
by the assessing officer for making the alleged additions. Secondly, there
is no direct evidence referred to by the assessing officer or in the report of
the investigation Wing that the assessee(s) have made arrangements with
the entry operators/company owners for carrying out the alleged
transactions. Thirdly, additions made by the assessing officer are merely
based on a theory called preponderance of probability that in same type
of cases prices are rigged up and down by the entry operators in order to
provide accommodation entry to various persons in the form of Long
term capital gain and though, the assessing authority can apply
preponderance of probabilities in some cases on account of surrounding
circumstances but so far as the cases on hand are concerned, we notice
that firstly some observations were made by the SEBI regarding some
fishy transactions carried out in case of few companies. Based on such
primary information, the income tax department has carried out extensive
enquiries and search and surveys in the case of various entry operators
and alleged companies and based on such statements, a theory was
established regarding such accommodation/bogus entries in the form of
capital gains. However, since in the case of the assessee, SEBI at a later
stage has intensively carried out the investigation on the facts of the
assessee(s) along with other persons as referred in the order of the SEBI Page 72 of 74 I.T.A. Nos.: 982, 983, 984 & 2068/KOL/2018
 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust
 Pinky Agarwal
 Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust

(extracted supra), and after a detailed investigation and examination of
records exonerated, the assessee(s) from the charges levelled in the show
cause notice issued to them. Therefore, when the assessee(s) have been
exonerated and the charges against them have been waived and the
transactions of purchase and sale of equity shares carried out by them
have been found to be genuine, the theory of preponderance of
probabilities is ruled out in the case of the present assessee(s). Thus, when
the transactions giving rise to the long term capital gain have been found
to be genuine, and as per rules and regulation of SEBI, the finding of the
ld. CIT(A) deserves to be set aside and the impugned additions in case of
assessee(s) in appeal before us are uncalled for. 45. In the result, all the appeals of the assessee(s) are allowed as per the
terms indicated hereinabove. 1. M/s. Gateway Financial Services Ltd., 156A, Lenin Sarani, Kolkata-
 700 017. 2. M/s. Nishit Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, 2nd Floor, Flat No.-2C/D,
 Dover Lane, Ballygunge, Kolkata-700 019. 3. Pinky Agarwal, Room No.114, 7th Floor, 2B, Grant Lane, Kolkata- 700 019. 4. Pratik Agarwal Beneficiary Trust, 2C, Drover Road, Ballygunge,
 Kolkata-700 019. 5. ACIT, CC-3(1), Kolkata. 6. CIT(A)-21, Kolkata. 7. CIT- 8. CIT(D/R), Kolkata Benches, Kolkata. //True copy //
 By order

 Assistant Registrar
 ITAT, Kolkata Benches
 Kolkata Page 74 of 74