% 06.08.2025 1. The present petition is filed seeking quashing of FIR No.
 342/2024 dated 24.05.2024, registered at Police Station Bhajan
 Pura for offences under Sections 288 / 304A of the Indian Penal
 Code, 1860 (' IPC '), including all consequential proceedings
 arising therefrom. 2. The FIR was registered on a complaint filed by
 Respondent No. 2 who is stated to have been working in Delhi
 Jal Board on a contractual basis under the supervision of the
 petitioner. It is alleged that on 24.05.2024, Respondent No. 2 W.P.(CRL) 1327/2025 Page 1 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 along with other workers being - Jaswant, Harish and Amit went
 to check the water leakage and dug a pit ahead of Panchsheel
 Hospital. It is alleged that after drawing out water from the said
 pit when Jaswant stepped inside the pit to check the water
 leakage, he got electrocuted. Upon being transported to the
 hospital, Jaswant (hereafter 'the deceased') was declared dead. It
 is alleged that the petitioner being the supervisor failed to provide
 adequate safety equipment to the workers as a consequence of
 which the incident took place. 3. The present petition is filed on the ground that the matter
 has amicably been settled between the parties by way of
 Compromise Deed dated 16.04.2025, of their own free will,
 without any pressure, force, fraud, coercion or undue influence. 4. The parties are present before this Court in person and
 have been duly identified by the Investigating Officer. 5. Respondent No. 3 / wife of the deceased states that she has
 three minor children and that she has received a sum of
 ₹12,00,000/- as compensation. She states that she is satisfied with
 the amount of compensation. 6. Further, on being asked, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 state
 that they do not wish to pursue the proceedings arising out of the
 present FIR, and have no objection if the same are quashed. 7. The learned counsel for the petitioner, on instructions,
 submits that the petitioner is willing to pay an additional sum of
 ₹5,00,000/- to the family of the deceased keeping in mind the
 fact that the children of the deceased are minor. 8. Offences under Sections 288 / 304A of the IPC are non-
 compoundable in nature. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43 9. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha
 Sanhita, 2023 ('BNSS') [erstwhile Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' CrPC ')] can compound offences
 which are non-compoundable on the ground that there is a
 compromise between the accused and the complainant. The
 Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and guidelines for
 High Court while accepting settlement and quashing the
 proceedings. In the case of Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of
 Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble Apex Court had
 observed as under :- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 While exercising the power the High Court is to
 form an opinion on either of the aforesaid two
 objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those
 prosecutions which involve heinous and serious
 offences of mental depravity or offences like
 murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not
 private in nature and have a serious impact on
 society. Similarly, for the offences alleged to have
 been committed under special statute like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences
 committed by public servants while working in
 that capacity are not to be quashed merely on the
 basis of compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly civil
 character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes should
 be quashed when the parties have resolved their
 entire disputes among themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is
 to examine as to whether the possibility of
 conviction is remote and bleak and continuation of
 criminal cases would put the accused to great
 oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice
 would be caused to him by not quashing the
 criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 10. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Apex Court
 had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 the High Court. 16.2. The invocation of the jurisdiction of the High
 Court to quash a first information report or a
 criminal proceeding on the ground that a
 settlement has been arrived at between the offender
 and the victim is not the same as the invocation of
 jurisdiction for the purpose of compounding an
 offence. While compounding an offence, the power
 of the court is governed by the provisions of Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973. The power to quash under Section 482 is
 attracted even if the offence is non-compoundable. 16.3. In forming an opinion whether a criminal
 proceeding or complaint should be quashed in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482, the
 High Court must evaluate whether the ends of
 justice would justify the exercise of the inherent
 power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High Court
 has a wide ambit and plenitude it has to be
 exercised (i) to secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to
 prevent an abuse of the process of any court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on the
 ground that the offender and victim have settled the
 dispute, revolves ultimately on the facts and
 circumstances of each case and no exhaustive
 elaboration of principles can be formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the dispute
 has been settled, the High Court must have due
 regard to the nature and gravity of the offence.
 Heinous and serious offences involving mental
 depravity or offences such as murder, rape and
 dacoity cannot appropriately be quashed though
 the victim or the family of the victim have settled
 the dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact upon
 society. The decision to continue with the trial in
 such cases is founded on the overriding element
 of public interest in punishing persons for serious
 offences. 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences, there W.P.(CRL) 1327/2025 Page 5 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a civil
 dispute. They stand on a distinct footing insofar as
 the exercise of the inherent power to quash is
 concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which arise
 from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash the
 criminal proceeding if in view of the compromise
 between the disputants, the possibility of a
 conviction is remote and the continuation of a
 criminal proceeding would cause oppression and
 prejudice; and

 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle set
 out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have implications
 which lie beyond the domain of a mere dispute
 between private disputants. The High Court would
 be justified in declining to quash where the
 offender is involved in an activity akin to a
 financial or economic fraud or misdemeanour. The
 consequences of the act complained of upon the
 financial or economic system will weigh in the
 balance." (emphasis supplied) 11. The present case relates to the offence under Section 304A of the IPC where a person has died due to alleged negligence of
 the accused. Thus, while deciding whether proceedings relating
 to such an offence can be quashed on the basis of the settlement,
 it is necessary to consider whether it is probable that the
 presented facts would constitute gross negligence and whether
 the element of mens rea, which is required for the purpose of
 conviction, is present. 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of Jacob Mathew v. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 State of Punjab : (2005) 6 SCC 1, while interpreting as to what
 constitutes a negligent act so as to constitute an offence under Section 304A of IPC held that gross negligence and an element
 of mens rea must be shown to exist. The Hon'ble Apex Court
 observed as under: has not been used in Section 304A IPC, yet it is settled that in
 criminal law negligence or recklessness, to be so held, must
 be of such a high degree as to be "gross". The expression
 "rash or negligent act" as occurring in Section 304A of the
 IPC has to be read as qualified by the word "grossly"..." 13. From a bare perusal of the FIR, it appears to be a case of
 accident. It is not the case of the prosecution that the accused
 person had shown criminal negligence due to which the accidents
 occurred on regular intervals and despite that no measures were
 taken. The present accident seems to be one off incident for
 which the conviction of the petitioner does not appear to be
 probable. Given the fact that the complainant and the wife of the
 deceased have already settled with the petitioner, it would be
 improbable to secure a conviction in the facts of the present case.
 The Court, thus, is of the view that the payment of compensation
 would serve the ends of justice. 14. It is stated that the petitioner has volunteered to pay a
 further sum of ₹5,00,000/- to the family of the deceased. 15. Keeping in view the nature of the dispute and that the W.P.(CRL) 1327/2025 Page 7 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43
 parties have amicably entered into a settlement, this Court feels
 that no useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute
 alive and continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse
 of the process of Court. I am of the opinion that this is a fit case
 to exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 528 of the
 BNSS. 16. In view of the above, FIR No. 342/2024 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to the petitioner depositing a sum of ₹5,00,000/- with the
 Registrar General of this Court within a period of four weeks
 which would be kept in an interest-bearing Fixed Deposit. The
 Fixed Deposit will be encashed and released in three equal parts
 in favour of the three children of the deceased once all the
 children attain the age of majority. 17. The present petition is allowed in the aforesaid terms. 18. List for compliance on 15.09.2025. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 AUGUST 6, 2025
 'KDK' W.P.(CRL) 1327/2025 Page 8 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/08/2025 at 21:40:43