% 11.03.2025

 CM APPL. 14520/2025 (exemption)
 Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions.
 The application stands disposed of. W.P.(C) 3077/2025 1. The petitioner has filed this writ petition in respect of disciplinary
 proceedings which were instituted against her pursuant to a memorandum
 of charge dated 03.01.2023. 2. The petitioner was working in the post of 'Officer' in the Khalsa
 College Branch of the respondent-Bank. The charges against her concern
 misappropriation of public funds, by entering or verifying fraudulent
 transactions, in deposit accounts of various customers. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/03/2025 at 00:20:30 3. Inquiry proceedings were held and a report dated 17.04.2023 was
 submitted by the Inquiry Officer, in which all the five allegations against
 the petitioner were found to be proved. After considering the inquiry
 report and the petitioner's representation against it, the Disciplinary
 Authority passed an order on 28.04.2023 accepting the report and
 imposing the punishment of dismissal which shall be a disqualification
 for future employment. 4. The petitioner's appeal against the said order was substantially
 successful, inasmuch as the punishment imposed upon her was modified
 to reduction by one stage in the time scale of pay for a period of four
 years, during which period also she earned increment, and future
 increments were not postponed. 5. The Appellate Authority has substantially upheld the factual
 findings against the petitioner, particularly with regard to her password
 being accessed by another employee, and has rejected her contentions to
 the contrary. It has also recorded a finding against the petitioner, that her
 user id was used for entering or verifying financial transactions even
 before the other employee had joined the said Branch. However, noting
 that the petitioner's authorisation was limited to entering or verifying
 transactions, that no entry was available to link the fraudulent transaction
 with any credit to the petitioner's account, and that the petitioner is 100%
 visually impaired, the Appellate Authority found that 'her direct
 involvement in the said fraud cannot be established'. While upholding the
 finding that the petitioner had not exercised honesty and integrity while
 dealing with the public money, the Appellate Authority found that the
 Disciplinary Authority had "failed to take into account that the appellant W.P.(C) 3077/2025 Page 2 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/03/2025 at 00:20:30
 (petitioner), being the 100% visually impaired person, cannot
 differentiate between the transactions whether they are genuine or not." It
 appears to have proceeded on the basis that by the reason of her
 impairment, she cannot be treated equally with others. 6. Mr. Rahul Kukreja, learned counsel for the petitioner, submits that
 the disciplinary proceedings are vitiated for want of evidence, inasmuch
 as the role of the petitioner in the alleged fraudulent transactions has not
 been established on evidence. 7. Mr. Rajat Arora, learned counsel for the respondent, who appears
 on advance notice, however submits that the penalty imposed upon the
 petitioner by the Appellate Authority is a relatively lenient punishment,
 having regard to the fact that fraud to the tune of approximately Rs.52
 crores has been attributed to her and one co-employee. He submits that
 the use of petitioner's password for the fraudulent transaction has not
 been denied, which in itself is a charge adequate to support the penalty
 ultimately imposed upon her. Mr. Arora also submits that the petitioner
 has approached the Court with considerable delay, during which time the
 bank has already implemented the order of Appellate Authority by
 reinstating the petitioner, albeit in the lower stage of pay. 8. The matter was passed over to enable Mr. Kukreja to take
 instructions as to whether the petitioner would be agreeable to an order of
 remand, for proceedings to be taken up afresh, if she is successful in the
 writ petition. He has taken instructions and submits that the petitioner
 wishes to pursue this writ petition, and that she would be agreeable to
 such an order. 9. Mr. Arora submits that he would also like to take instructions, on W.P.(C) 3077/2025 Page 3 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/03/2025 at 00:20:30
 this aspect. 10. List on 20.03.2025 in the category of 'for admission' matters. PRATEEK JALAN, J

 MARCH 11, 2025
 PB/kb/ W.P.(C) 3077/2025 Page 4 of 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/03/2025 at 00:20:31