Arun Mishra, J. 1. These writ petitions pertain to the projects of various companies of

Amrapali Group in the Noida and Greater Noida. 2. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that in 2011 in Noida and

Greater Noida various real estate projects for housing were started. In the

various projects, the Amrapali Group of Companies proposed to construct

approximately 42,000 flats. Various brochures were published and it was

assured that the delivery of possession shall be made in 36 months and

other world-class amenities were also promised. 3. Various home buyers booked their apartments during the period

2010-2014. The buyers signed the Standard Form of Allotment-cum-Flat

Buyers Agreement and even after payment of 40 to 100 percent of total

consideration, they are faced with the threat of forfeiture of huge booking

amount. The agreement contained specific terms as to interest. Under

Clause 14 of the agreement, the builder authorised itself to finance loan

from any financial institution by way of mortgage/charge/securitization of

receivable of the land and flats and the allottees will have no objection in

this regard. Clause 15 also authorised the builder to keep full authority

over the flat depriving the allottees of any lien or interest despite payment

of entire amount thereof. 4. The builder under Clause 19(a) was obliged to complete the flats of

M/s. Amrapali Centurion Park Private Limited within 30 months from the

date of commencement of excavation/signing of the agreement, which may

vary for plus/minus 6 months. Under Clause 19(c), builder fixed a paltry

sum of Rs.5 per square feet super area per month for the period of delay,

which would include any/all damages, compensation, claims for delayed

possession. 5. The buyers invested their life savings and some of them had obtained

the loan from the Bank. Most of the buyers have made the payment to the

extent of 50 percent to 100 percent abiding by the payment schedule. The

dreams of the buyers of obtaining house were given serious jolts when M/s.

Amrapali Silicon City Private Limited and M/s. Amrapali Centurian Park

Private Limited, respondent Nos.3 and 4 herein respectively were found in

serious breach of their obligation to deliver the flats within 36 months.

They did not pay the amount either to the Noida or Greater Noida Authority

and also to the Banks. Several revised dates of possession were fixed

unilaterally, but they failed to deliver the flats. The Amrapali Group has

failed to comply with its obligation under the subvention scheme, the

tenure of which was approved by the bank/financial institution. The

builder had failed to comply with the abovementioned scheme as the buyer

making the payment of EMIs to the banks, thereby causing a double loss.

Some of the consumers approached the National Consumer Dispute

Redressal Commission (for short, ‘the NCDRC') by filing Consumer 5 Complaint No.213 of 2017 under Section 12(1)(c) of the Consumer

Protection Act, 1986. 6. The Bank of Baroda had filed Company Petition No. (IB)-

121(PB)/2017 before the National Company Law Tribunal (for short, ‘the

NCLT’) under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 for

triggering the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process in the matter of

M/s. Amrapali Silicon City Private Limited, respondent No.3. The NCLT

appointed the Interim Resolution Professional (in short, the ‘I.R.P').

Moratorium was also declared thereby restricting the institution of any

suits against the corporate debtor including execution of any judgment,

decree or order; transferring, encumbering, alienating or disposing of by

the corporate debtor any of its assets or any legal interest therein; and any

action to foreclose, recover or enforce any security interest created by the

corporate debtor in respect of its property under the Securitisation and

Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest

Act, 2002 (for short ‘the SARFAESI Act '). The order of NCLT has a direct

bearing on the home buyers of M/s. Amrapali Centurian Park Private

Limited, respondent no.4, which is virtually owned by M/s. Amrapali

Silicon City Private Limited with 98.84 percent shareholding. Both the

companies are run by the almost same set of Directors including Mr. Anil

Kumar Sharma and Mr. Shiv Priya. Thus, in order to secure the interest of

home buyers, in the instant petitions under Article 32 , a plethora of

intervention applications have been filed. 7. It is submitted on behalf of petitioners that home buyers have put

their lives at stake by paying their lifetime savings and hard-earned money

in the purchase of flats. As such, they cannot be categorised as ordinary

financial creditors to rank pretty low in the order of priority under Section 53. Corporate builder heavily counts upon the home buyers as

stakeholders to sustain in the market. Section 53 of the Insolvency and

Bankruptcy Code, 2016 is irrational and violates the rights of the home

buyers guaranteed under Article 21 as by subjecting the home buyers to

the liquidation proceedings of discriminatory nature. The very survival of

home buyers has been seriously jeopardised. Not only they are going to

lose the entire money with accrued interest, but they also become

financially crippled for all time to come even close to the dream of a new

home, let alone purchase it. There is no equal protection under the

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The moratorium imposed by

NCLT directly affecting not only the home buyers of M/s.Amrapali

Centurion Park Private Limited, but also similarly situated lakhs of home

buyers in various other projects. They cannot be deprived of their legal

rights. Similar plight has been averred by the other buyers in the other

several projects. 8. The matter projects the issue of larger public interest. The real estate

business has developed and it mainly survived by the money invested by

the buyer for the purchase of the house. They have the right to obtain

houses. The facts of the instant case project that Noida and Greater Noida 7 have allotted huge plots to the builders by charging a sum of approximately

10 percent and in most of the cases, thereafter no money has been paid.

The large number of projects which have come up not only in Noida and

Greater Noida, but most of them have not been completed by the

builders/promoters and they have siphoned buyers' money in large scale.

No action has been taken by the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities

against builders for cancellation of leases due to violation to fulfil their

obligation. Bankers have financed to builder certain loan on the condition

to invest in the projects, but they have also permitted the money to be used

as for other purposes as apparent from the report of the Forensic Audit in

the instant case which had been submitted by Auditors - Mr. Pawan

Kumar Aggarwal and Mr. Ravinder Bhatia. The facts which are projected

in the Forensic Auditor Report speaks for itself. 9. Before we consider the Forensic Audit, it would be appropriate to

refer to certain orders which were passed from time to time by this Court.

This Court on the application filed by petitioner - Bikram Chatterji, passed

an order on 22.11.2017, directing builder to deposit 10 percent of the dues

to Noida Authorities. This Court also directed that the phase in respect of

which Occupancy Certificate and No Objection Certificate, if granted, the

possession of flats shall be handed over to the respective flat buyers.

Liberty was granted to flat owners to complete the finishing work.

Thereafter, an order was passed on 31.1.2018, requesting the builder to

deposit amount as ordered on 17.11.2017. It was also pointed that in 8 several places firefighting devices were not installed though the places were

occupied by thousands of families of Phase-I of Silicon City of Amrapali in

Sector 76, Noida. Directions were issued to do the needful. We also

directed to submit the proposal within one week with respect to all the

projects, which were incomplete. On 22.2.2018, the following order was

passed by this Court: In response to the prayer made on behalf of the developers that the
 insolvency proceedings before the NCLT ought to be stayed, we on
 this stage leave the parties to make the appropriate prayer as
 advised before the said Forum.” 10. Keeping in view the predominant interest of the home buyers, vide

above order we directed the Amrapali Group to complete the projects and

the finishing work as assured, but it was not done as apprehended by the

home-buyers. This Court vide order dated 15.3.2018, directed to submit a

joint proposal with respect to providing project wise information of the

stages of various building. Thereafter, on 27.3.2018, learned senior

counsel appearing for Amrapali Group stated that they are ready to

undertake the completion of the projects of Amrapali Group and we 10 requested the I.R.P. of Amrapali Group not to proceed any further, in view

of the assurances given by the Amrapali Group to undertake works. This

Court on 10.5.2018 has passed an order for installation of lifts in the

Towers and also to make certain lifts functional. We also asked the

promoters/ developers to submit the statement of the total price of the

flats, the total amount paid to the builder by the flat buyers, the total

amount spent by the builder on the construction and how the remaining

part of the money paid by buyers has been utilised. It also transpired from

documents that money had been transferred to certain other companies,

thus, this Court has asked for the details of the composition of the

transferee company including the names of the Director and for what

purpose money was transferred and how it is to be retrieved and how

projects are to be completed. 11. On 17.5.2018, this Court passed the following order: (iii) The third category (River view) comprises of 7 towers, i.e., D1 to
D7. There are 917 units in this category and time, as agreed to for
completion is 29 (twenty-nine) months. The co-developer of the first basket is M/s. Galaxy Dreamhome
Developers Pvt. Ltd. SECOND BASKET

PRINCELY ESTATE : Let the requisite undertaking by the concerned promoter and co-
developer be filed within seven days in this Court.

A.3. EDEN PARK : The work shall be completed within 9-35 months. c) Enchante: This project comprises of 1508 units. The work shall
be completed in a phase-wise manner within 42 months.

The co-developer is M/s. Galaxy Dreamhome Developers Pvt. Ltd.
Requisite undertaking by the promoter and the co-developer shall
be filed within seven days. II. LEISURE VALLEY : The promoter of the projects is M/s. Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt.
Ltd. and the co-developer is M/s. Galaxy Dreamhome Developers
Pvt. Ltd. III. HEARTBEAT CITY 1 & 2 : The promoters of these projects are M/s. Pebble Prolease Pvt. Ltd.
and M/s. Three Platinum Softech Pvt. Ltd. The co-developer is M/s.
Galaxy Dreamhome Developers Pvt. Ltd. The aforesaid period wherever fixed includes the period of
mobilization and reflects the outer limit. Let undertaking of
promoter and developer be filed within seven days with respect to all
the projects. 4. It is apparent from the admission made by the promoter that the
money to the extent of Rs.2765 crores, out of the six projects in
question, has been transmitted to other projects. Though we were
inclined to direct the promoter to deposit the said amount in this
Court, we are not doing this at this juncture, because of the
singular reason that the various promoters of the projects have
shown their willingness to complete these projects by engaging the
services of the co-developer. It is made clear that co-developer is the
agent of the promoter. No right or interest shall accrue to the co- 15 developer and liability towards the buyer shall remain with the
promoter. 5. At this stage, we deem it appropriate to direct that an escrow
account has to be opened. The said account has to be opened in the
UCO Bank, Supreme Court Branch, situated in the premises itself.
At this juncture, we deem it appropriate to direct the promoters to
deposit a sum of Rs.250/- crores (Rupees Two Hundred Fifty
Crores) in the said escrow account, and money shall be deposited
on or before 15th June 2018. 6. A proposal has also been submitted on behalf of the promoters of
the aforesaid projects to sell some of the unencumbered property,
details of which have been given at page 28 of the affidavit dated
16.5.2018. Out of the aforesaid proposal, we find that the properties
mentioned at serial numbers 11 and 15 are of high value. The
unlaunched part of M/s. Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt. Ltd., land of
project is in Greater Noida, is held on the basis of the leasehold
interest from the Greater Noida Industrial Authority, the realizable
value is shown to be is Rs.917.29 crores (Rupees Nine Hundred
Seventeen Crores Twenty Nine Lakhs). There is no bank loan but
however, there appear to be some dues to the Greater Noida
Authority on this particular property. The distress sale value is
shown at Rs.491 crores (Rupees Four Hundred Ninety-One Crores).
The property mentioned at serial number 15 is a part of the
unlaunched property of Amrapali Centurion Park (Commercial) held
on a leasehold basis from the Greater Noida Industrial Authority
and its distress value is Rs.246 crores (Rupees Two Hundred Forty-
Six Crores). 7. There are some other commercial properties, which are in the
form of hotels and other commercial properties comprising of malls,
etc. and those can also be sold for completion of projects. As and
when a concrete proposal is submitted before us for sale, the same
shall be considered and appropriate orders would be passed in this
regard. However, the amount of Rs.250 crores (Rupees Two
Hundred Fifty Crores) has to be deposited by 15th of June, 2018
without fail, in the escrow account to be opened with the UCO Bank
of this Court. 8. There are certain outstanding dues of the buyers. It would be
open to the buyers to deposit the said amount in the said escrow
account. However, as soon as the projects are completed, we
propose to give them reasonable time to deposit the outstanding
dues. As soon as the promoter and co-developer are in a position to
hand over the possession, the buyers shall have to deposit the
outstanding amount in the escrow account to be opened in the UCO
Bank, within three months time from the date of issuance of offer of
possession. 9. We also propose to form a Committee to submit periodical reports
of the progress of the construction, to this Court, consisting of the
following members: 10. There are certain unsold units in the various projects that have
to be firstly adjusted by making swapping as agreed to, after that
the remaining available units may also be permitted to be sold. In
this regard, a proposal would be submitted as and when swapping
process is completed and the details of property to be sold and
amount of offer by the prospective buyers, be indicated by this
Court. The proposal will be submitted for consideration so that
appropriate orders may be passed by this Court. Let the Committee
constituted by us also to supervise the swapping part. 11. Eight weeks’ time is granted to the buyers for the purpose of
applying for swapping and decision shall be taken within 15 days
from the date of application for the purpose of swapping is filed
before the promoters. In case there is any difficulty in swapping, the
Committee is authorized to take care of the grievances and to guide
the promoters as well as the buyers. 12. As there are certain dues of Noida and Greater Noida
Authorities and that of the secured creditors and
operational/unsecured creditors, let the proposal be submitted by
the promoters in this regard, on or before 07.07.2018. We also place
on record that approximately a sum of Rs.4,300-4,900/- crores will
be required for completion of the various projects as pointed out by
promoters. 13. There are certain ‘C’ category projects. With respect to those
projects also, as they are not taken care of during swapping or there
may be certain buyers not willing for swapping or certain amount
may be required to be refunded to the buyers, who are not
intending to purchase now and not opting for swapping or/and is
not feasible, to take up those projects. The promoter shall also file
its proposal with respect to such buyers who want their money to
be refunded. Let that proposal be also filed after swapping is done
indicating therein as to how many persons require to refund the
money. The buyers in ‘C' category projects only who are intending to
obtain a refund, may also submit their proposal to the concerned
promoter in the meantime, within one month from today. 14. The promoters with respect to Silicon Valley have applied for
connection for electricity, sewerage, and water, as per the order
passed by this Court on 10.5.2018. The aforesaid order is carried
out punctually. The promoters of Silicon Valley has undertaken to
make the payment of dues onwards. 15. The joint statement that has been filed has been signed in the 17 Court by the learned counsel for the promoters as well as by
 learned counsel for the authorities and the flat buyers, is placed on
 record and made part of this order as “Annexure-A”. 16. The aforesaid Committee constituted by us is also requested to
 evaluate the work undertaken by M/s. Sahi Developers Pvt. Ltd. so
 far and submit a report in the 1 st week of July 2018. 17. Let nominations be made by the developers, flat buyers and
 authorities within seven days from today, under intimation to this
 Court. 18. The matter has been heard in part and requires a further
 hearing. List on 18.7.2018 at 2.00 p.m. 19. It is agreed to, that with respect to essential amenities, the order
 passed by this Court on 10.5.2018 shall also apply to Silicon City
 Phase I project and in case inhabitants are there in some towers,
 the same shall apply to Silicon City Phase-II project also.”

 The aforesaid order was passed on the basis of the joint proposal,

which was in the form of four baskets with independent timelines,

submitted in this Court. 12. It was also mentioned in paragraph 4 of the above order that

admission has been made by the promoters/builders that the money to the

extent of Rs.2,765 crores, out of six projects has been transferred to other

projects. Though we were inclined to direct the promoter to deposit the

said amount in this Court, we refrained from directing as the willingness to

complete the projects was shown by engaging services of co-developers and

builder assured that it would undertake the work. It was proposed to sell

certain unencumbered properties of Amrapali Group for payment of these

projects, however, this Court directed to deposit an amount of Rs.250

crores in the escrow account to be opened in the UCO Bank, Supreme

Court Branch on or before 15.6.2018. This order was again not complied

with and the work was not undertaken and inability was shown to deposit 18 the amount in the escrow account as ordered. When the case was listed on

18.7.2018 in this Court, learned counsel appearing on behalf of promoters

was to place progress report, but in order to wriggle out of the compliance

of order, totally a different stand was taken in this Court and it was stated

that a notice dated 13.7.2018 has been issued by the Ministry of Housing

and Urban Affairs, which was placed on record, indicating that a High-

Level Committee has been created by the Government of U.P. to redress the

issues of home buyers and the affected parties of incomplete/stalled house

projects in the Noida/ Greater Noida/Yamuna Expressway under the

Chairmanship of Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. It was

submitted on behalf of Amrapali Group that a meeting was held today and

prayed that something concrete is likely to happen within ten days. We

deferred the hearing up to 1.8.2018. However, at the same time, we

directed the builder to file the accounts with effect from 1.4.2008 till date

under the certificate of Chartered Accountant and also a list of all assets in

a sealed cover in this Court. As a matter of fact, there was no compliance

of the order dated 17.5.2018 of this Court, but the totally indifferent stand

was taken so as to wriggle out of their obligation under said order was

passed by this Court on the basis of the joint statement. 13. This Court has passed an order on 1.8.2018, wherein it was observed

that in order to scuttle the hearing in this Court, it was stated that the

meeting was held on the very same day. The order passed by this Court on

17.5.2018 to deposit Rs.250 crores had not been complied with. There was 19 also an admission made by Amrapali Group that there was a diversion of

more than Rs.2,765 crores from six projects. This Court observed that

money could not have been diverted. That would prima facie tantamount

to a criminal breach of trust. We directed that the individual bank

accounts of the Directors of all the 40 companies be frozen and ordered

attachment of the properties in the individual names of Directors and also

put a restriction on the alienation of the properties in the names of

individual Directors etc. Following order was passed by this Court: 3. In order to scuttle the hearing in this Court on 18.7.2018 on
which the case was listed, it was reported to us that meeting was
held on that very day which was presided over by the Secretary,
Ministry of Housing, who is the Chairperson of the Committee and
Secretary MoUHUA. Thereafter, pursuant to the said meeting it was
stated today that NBCC India Limited, a Government of India
enterprise, has invited "Expression of Interest" for joint development
in real estate with respect to the development of residential and 21 commercial real estate projects in Delhi and NCR region, inclusive
of the Amrapali Group for which we have already passed orders on
17.5.2018. 4. In case the Committee constituted by the Government of Uttar
Pradesh wanted to take up the matter of Amrapali Group in view of
the order dated 17.5.2018, it was necessary for them to seek the
express permission from this Court, as this Court was in seisin of
the matters, before transacting any business in this regard. But
that has not been done and when the order of this Court stands, it
was not at all appropriate or permissible to take up the matter by
the Committee and intermeddle with the order passed by this Court
when the matter is pending in this Court. The action has a clear
effect on rendering order passed by this Court ineffective. In the
circumstances, we deem it appropriate to direct the presence of the
Secretary to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the
Chairman of the NBCC India Limited and to file their affidavit in
this Court and produce entire record so as to show how they have
convened the meeting and acted in the manner in the matter
pending in this Court, without permission of this Court before
dealing with the matter of Amrapali Group. Let them be present
before this Court tomorrow, i.e., on 2.8.2018, at 2.00 p.m. to
explain their stand. 5. Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma, Chairman and Managing Director
(CMD) of Amrapali Group of Companies were personally present in
this Court. He has stated that there are 40 companies in the
Amrapali Group of Companies. They are as follows: 6. The order passed by this Court of depositing 250 crores of rupees
 has not complied. There is an admission already made by Amrapali
 Group that there was a diversion of more than 2765 crores of
 rupees from six projects to other projects. In the circumstances, we
 direct the Bank accounts of all the aforesaid 40 companies be
 frozen forthwith. We forthwith attach the entire immovable
 properties of these 40 group of companies. They shall not be
 entitled to deal with the same in any manner whatsoever without
 the express permission of this Court. 7. There was a diversion of the funds, prima facie it is apparent that
 when the money was paid by the buyers for the purpose of
 investment in the particular project, it could not have been diverted.
 That would prima facie tantamount to a criminal breach of trust.
 We are not expressing any final opinion in this regard at this
 moment. However, at the same time, we propose to take a call on
 this after hearing the parties on this aspect. However, so as to
 further ascertain the extent of internal and external diversion from
 all the projects. The names of all the Chartered Accountants of all
 the aforesaid 40 companies be disclosed to us and their reports
 from 2008 till today be placed on record by tomorrow. 8. The individual Bank accounts of the Directors of all the 40
 companies are also freezed and they shall not be entitled to operate
 the same with immediate effect. Let details of all Bank accounts be
 furnished by tomorrow of companies and their Directors and of
 personal accounts of Directors. The properties in the individual
 names of the Directors are also attached and the same shall not be
 disposed of or alienated in any manner without the express order of
 this Court. 9. Let the matter be listed tomorrow, i.e., on 2.8.2018 at 2.00 p.m.
 Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma, Mr. Shiv Priya and Mr. Ajay Kumar of
 Amrapali group of companies to remain personally present in this
 Court tomorrow, along with the aforesaid officials.” 14. It was stated by Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs that

he was not aware of the order passed by this Court on 17.5.2018, 23 appointing promoters and time frame and stated that he never intended to

violate the order passed by this Court. On 2.8.2018, we have recalled the

order dated 17.5.2018, considering the dubious and unfair conduct of the

Amrapali Group of Companies and on each and every day they have been

shifting their stand. Earlier, they have filed affidavits making certain

representations and now want to wriggle out of it.

Following order was passed on 2.8.2018, recalling the order dated

17.5.2018: 18. This Court appointed Mr. Ravi Bhatia of M/s. Bhatia & Co. and Mr.

Pawan Kumar Aggarwal of M/s. Sharp & Tannan Company to conduct the

forensic audit, which was ordered to be conducted with effect from the year

2008 till date, to be completed within two months. On 12.9.2018, a list of

properties was submitted which was to be sold by the Debt Recovery

Tribunal, Delhi, (DRT) and the details of properties, title deeds and maps

were to be submitted to the DRT. This Court directed statutory Auditor, Mr.

Anil Mittal, to hand over the original records of Amrapali group of

companies vide order dated 12.9.2018. This Court also directed remaining

records from 2008 till date, be handed over within 10 days. Amrapali group

of companies were also directed to hand over the documents required by

the forensic auditors. The matter was taken up by this Court on 26.9.2018.

Considering the non-cooperation of the Directors, the following order was

passed by this Court on 26.9.2018 : 19. On 9.10.2018 when despite the orders dated 12.9.2018 and

26.9.2018, orders were not complied with, records were not handed over

and there was utter violation of orders passed by this Court, we directed

the Police to seize all the documents and to hand them over to the Forensic

Auditors from the possession of 46 companies and their Directors. We

directed all the Directors to surrender their passports and hand them over

to the Police. The observations made by this Court were being misused by

Amrapali group of companies, "No coercive action will be taken by any

authority with respect to the building where completion is going on under

the order passed by this Court". As observed on 27.3.2018, we clarified

that the observations did not deal with any police investigation in any

criminal case or in FIR which may have been registered with the Delhi

Police, EOW, to make investigation in any case which is required to be

made. Police was free to make an investigation. On 10.10.2018 this Court

directed the concerned police officers to seal all the seven premises situated

at Noida and Greater Noida. On 11.10.2018 certain directions were issued

so as to facilitate the forensic audit. After audit work was over for the day,

on a prayer made by learned counsel on behalf of the three Directors of

Amrapali group of companies, they were permitted to stay overnight in

Hotel Park Ascent but they shall not be allowed any access to the mobile

phone or the facility of telecommunication without permission in writing of 31 the police. This Court also directed issuance of a formal notice on the suo

moto contempt. 20. On 24.10.2018 the forensic auditors were present. They have

disclosed as to diversion of funds of more than Rs.100 crores to a firm

known as GauriSuta Infrastructures Pvt. Ltd. in which Ashish Jain and

Vivek Mittal were the Directors. They are stated to be the relatives of the

Statutory Auditors. We directed the personal presence of Chander Wadhwa,

CFO of Amrapali group of companies on the next date. On 26.10.2018 the

Forensic Auditors submitted an interim report. It was pointed out that the

tally data of 23 companies, reserves and surplus figures as appearing in

the tally data does not reconcile with the reserves and surplus as

appearing in the last signed financials. The difference has also been

pointed out in a tabular form. There were several advances, investments,

utilisations, advances made to suppliers and payments made to Mr. Anil

Sharma and Mr. Shiv Priya, Directors of the company for professional

charges, etc. It was also pointed out that in spite of repeated reminders,

groupings have not been supplied. Grouping is a process to indicate the

process between the stage of trial balance, balance sheet, and profit and

loss account. All files had not been handed over and Mr. Anil Mittal, the

Statutory Auditor had sent one file late in the evening. This Court ordered

that in case documents were not handed over, the same shall be viewed

seriously and the incumbents punished suitably. The last opportunity was

granted to hand over the requisite documents to the Forensic Auditors. We 32 directed Statutory Auditors to comply with the requisition made by the

Forensic Auditors. It was also noted by this Court that a sum of Rs.242.38

crores had been handed over to Gaurisuta Infrastructure Private Ltd.,

Vidhyashree Buildcon Private Ltd., Mannat Buildcraft Private Ltd. This

Court observed in para 5 thus : 21. Since the CFO did not reply to the questions put by the Forensic

Auditors to him, his conduct has been noted by this Court thus: 22. It was further pointed out by the forensic auditors that there were 23

more groups of companies to whom money had been diverted and these

companies had been created by Amrapali group of companies. This Court

directed disclosure of these companies in the order dated 26.10.2018 thus: 23. We had also directed Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO to file affidavit

pointing out appointment order, authorisation, authority to sign any

voucher and his entire role in the organisation thus: 24. We also issued other directions to ensure that laptops and computers

were made available to forensic auditors. On 31.10.2018 this Court noted

that certain transactions of Amrapali group to Zodiac/J.P. Morgan,

Mauritius/Singapore by the creation of various companies. We directed the

bank statement of J.P. Morgan from 2008 till date to be filed. With respect

to the money received from the Indian companies and in particular from

Amrapali group of companies, all monetary transactions of J.P. Morgan,

Mauritius and Singapore with Amrapali group of companies be disclosed

with details on affidavit. We directed the Amrapali group of

companies/statutory auditors as well as Anil Mittal, Ravi Kapoor and S.N.

Dhawan and CFO to disclose the names of all the companies in which their

family members or acquaintance were included as Director and all the

transactions inter alia family members and relatives. It was also pointed

out by Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO that though his salary was Rs.15,000

per month, a car worth Rs.43 lakhs was given to him by the company in

lieu of his services. It was also pointed out that an amount of Rs.2 crores

has been paid on account of Chander Wadhwa’s tax liability by Amrapali

group of companies. Further directions were also issued to make the 35 disclosures. This Court has noted the conduct of non-compliance of the

order vide order dated 13.11.2018 thus: compliance of the order and for filing the wrong affidavits before this 36 Court, on 20.11.2018 along with the suo moto contempt that has been
registered vide order dated 12.10.2018. 9. We have two affidavits. One of Anil Mittal and another of Chander
Wadhwa. Both are passing liability on each other for creating certain
additional companies. None want to own the responsibility. We require
Amrapali Group of Companies and their Directors to file a reply to the
affidavit, filed by their CFO Chander Wadhwa and Anil Mittal. Let the
copies of affidavits of Chander Wadhwa and Anil Mittal be furnished to
the Advocate on Record, Amrapali Group of Companies. Let para-wise
and point-wise reply be submitted as to what has transpired in the Court,
as recorded in order-sheets, including what they have stated in their
affidavits. 12. It was also pointed out that Computech Pvt Ltd. is in possession of a
substantial amount. The forensic auditors are in the process of examining
the details. However, at this juncture pursuant to findings of forensic
auditors, it was pointed out by Mr. Vikas Singh, learned counsel
appearing on behalf of Chander Wadhwa, CFO that a sum of Rs.7.58
crore from Rinku Computech Private Limited and Rs.4.1 crore is lying
with Chander Wadhwa, said amount is out of the transactions with the
Amrapali Group of Companies. He has volunteered to deposit the amount
within three weeks from today. Let it be deposited in the account opened
with the Registrar of this court, within three weeks. 14. From the forensic auditors' report, it is prima facie clear that
Amrapali Healthcare Private Limited, as pointed out in Annexure 11 is
created out of funds belonging to the Amrapali group. That is extracted
hereunder: Constructed area- Sl. No. Shareholder’ % holding No. of shares
 Name 1. Ultra Home 99.89 % 93,85,260
 Constructions
 Private
 Limited 2. Swapnil 0.03 % 2500 37 Shikha 3. Suvash 0.08% 7500
 Chandra
 Kumar
 Total 100 % 93,95,260

* In FY 2016-17 the shares of Ultra Homes Construction Pvt. Ltd. are
transferred in the name of Gaurisuta Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. It has also been pointed out that this hospital is, in fact, owned to the
extent of 99.89 percent by Ultra Home Constructions Pvt Ltd. and
funding has been made by the said company. It is one of the companies
out of the Amrapali Group of Companies involved in the case. Thus, it is
apparent that this property has to be sold as it has been purchased out of
money of buyers, in order to make available the money for the
construction of the buildings. 17. It is a case where we find ourselves in a situation that the money of
Greater Noida and Noida Authorities has not been paid, buyers have also
been duped. Other financial institutions have not been paid. Construction
has not been completed. Money paid by buyers has been diverted for the
creation of various companies and assets have been created. All these
assets are accountable and have to be sold as it is not the independent
investment made by these directors. It is a patent and blatant fraud
which appears to have been played, the way in which the money has been
transacted and creation of companies has taken place in connivance with
the CFO, statutory auditors. It was also pointed out that there are various
related companies in which money has been transferred. We restrain all
monetary transactions out of bank accounts or any kind of alienation of
the property held by the related group of companies where the money has
been siphoned and has been used for the creation of the assets. Any
transfer made in any manner shall be illegal, void and inoperative. 20. It is also necessary in order to find out the actual amount invested in
building activities, out of the funds collected. It also appears that certain
companies were created only for the purpose of purchasing raw materials.
Whether actual transactions of purchase have taken place is required to
be ascertained. Let all the vouchers of the purchase, Bills, orders, etc., 38 which are in possession of Amrapali Group of Companies and the
 estimates of various raw materials for each and every building without
 which construction of a building is not possible to be undertaken to be
 positively handed over to the forensic auditors within a week. We also
 request the forensic auditors to propose how the actual valuation of the
 buildings constructed so far by the Amrapali Group of Companies on the
 spot can be made so as to ascertain the actual investments made and
 extent of diversion. Let the estimate and quantities of the bills be also
 furnished by Amrapali Group to the forensic auditors along with the
 names of all the suppliers and mode of payment. They may also collect
 information/documents from suppliers." Certain directions were also issued to DRT to make the valuation to

sell the property. Other facts were also noted. 25. On 20.11.2018 this Court had noted non-compliance of various

orders passed by this Court from time to time. Various sub-leases had also

been created. We issued the directions vide order dated 20.11.2018 as

under: 26. On 12.12.2018 in para 4 we have observed thus: • Mukesh Kumar Roy (DIN: 2175661) who is presently director of
 Amrapali Group (listed in 46 companies LA Residentia) is also director of
 Anjali Buildcon. • In Anjali Buildcon Mr. Sanjiv Kumar (DIN: 03136323) is also one of the
 directors, who is the director of New Tech La Palacia to whom Shri Balaji 41 Hi-Tech Construction Pvt Ltd (A sublessee of Amrapali Dream Valley) has
further transferred the sub-lease of said project.

• Stunning construction is one of the Amrapali Group Company listed in
46 companies. • Rs 46 Crs (Approx) amount which is to be paid by sublessee/s

II. Amrapali Dream Valley: (Current Status: 260307)

As per the lease deed, Lessor here is Greater Noida Authority. 1. Lessee here is Amrapali Dream Valley Pvt Ltd (Total Area – 354298 Sq
Mts) 2. Sub- Lessee of Amrapali Dream Valley Pvt Ltd here are: • Shri Balaji Hi-Tech Construction Pvt Ltd has further transferred the
sub-lease to a new company namely New Tech La Palacia Pvt. Ltd, which
has applied for a revised sanction plan dated 21.01.2013 and it's not yet
approved. (page 18 of GNOIDA affidavit)

• In New Tech La Palacia Mr.Sanjiv Kumar (DIN: 03136323) is a director
who is also a director of Anjali Buildcon (one of the shareholders of
Elegant Infracon Pvt. Ltd. who is sub-lessee of Amrapali Centurian Park.

• Rs. 91.89 Crs (Approx) amount which is to be paid by sublessee/s

III. Leisure Valley: (Current Status: 396124.20 Sq. Mts

As per the lease deed, Lessor here is Greater Noida Authority. 1. Lessee here is Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt Ltd (Total Area – 419519.20
Sq. Mts.) 2. Sub- Lessee of Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt Ltd here are: lessee so far, let details be filed on an affidavit. We also request the
 Forensic Auditors to look into this aspect and submit a report before us
 on the next date of hearing along with other aspects mentioned in the
 above-quoted details filed on behalf of the flat buyers." 27. The directions were also issued to DRT to make a further valuation of

Tech Park (Hotel) in Greater Noida. On 25.1.2019 we issued certain

directions. On 11.2.2019 we directed M/s. J.P. Morgan to disclose the

names of the investors and beneficiaries who invested in the Mauritius

Fund which had invested in Amrapali INR Rs.85 crores. On 14.2.2019,

dues were pointed out against individuals and Directors also. Against

Directors there was a report of loans and advances to the extent of

Rs.161.51 crores as noted in the order. We issued certain directions with

respect to M/s. Golf Link City Projects Private Ltd. as well as M/s. Royal

Golf Link City Projects Pvt. Ltd. We directed Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma to

deposit an amount; whereas the non-compliance made by Amrapali was

also pointed out by the buyers which had been noted. As inability was

expressed on behalf of M/s. J.P. Morgan to explain valuation report dated

23.10.2013 submitted by Mr. Sudit K. Parikh & Co., Chartered

Accountants, they were ordered to explain the valuation report on the basis

of which Rs.140 crores had been withdrawn by M/s. J.P. Morgan. It was

also pointed out in this connection that the shares of Amrapali Zodiac were

ultimately purchased for Rs.140 crores by M/s. Neelkanth and M/s.

Rudraksha Forensic auditors pointed out that two persons namely 43 Chandan Kumar, is a peon of Mr. Anil Mittal, statutory auditor and was

working in his office and one is Vivek Mittal, nephew of Mr. Anil Mittal, who

was doing petty jobs of sub-contractors, getting a monthly income of

Rs.15,000. They were stated to be Directors in the companies, i.e., M/s.

Neelkanth and Rudraksha. They were not having any capacity to give

Rs.140 crores to M/s. J.P. Morgan. This Court has noted the facts thus: SUBMISSIONS 30. Mr. M.L. Lahoty, learned counsel appearing on behalf of 49,575 home

buyers submitted that under section 8 of the Real Estate Regulation and

Development Act, 2016 (for short, ‘the RERA’) and also in view of the

provisions contained in sections 13 and 14 of the U.P. Industrial Area

Development Act, 1976 (for short, ‘the Industrial Development Act ’), the

lease deeds granted by Noida and Greater Noida authorities were ordered to

be cancelled. In the lease deed also, there is a specific stipulation as to 46 cancellation clause in case of cancellation and imposing penalty and for

such other actions against the builder in case of default. Home buyers

further submitted that after payment of first 10% of the lease premium,

Amrapali Group has not paid any of the 20 half-yearly instalments from

2010 onwards. The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have been liberal,

and not taking any stringent action against Amrapali Group which had

been mandated by virtue of the provisions contained in the lease deed. The

dues of Noida and Greater Noida authorities cannot be treated at par with

the dues of home buyers. Home buyers further submitted that so far as the

dues of the banks are concerned, they are not placed on any better footing

and Forensic Auditors in their report have stated that but for the

connivance of the bank officials, the act of money siphoning on such large

scale would not have taken place. Banks have failed to monitor utilisation

of the borrowed funds and they acted as mute spectators to the diversion of

funds by Amrapali Group of Companies, its Directors and officials. Mr.

Lahoty, on behalf of home buyers further submitted that the Reserve Bank

of India has issued Master Circulars from time to time since 2014 onwards

as to the obligations of the Banks and specifically directed that banks must

necessarily monitor the ‘end use' of the loans granted by them and call for

periodical reports thereof. In the case of diversion and siphoning of loan

funds, banks must invariably take action against defaulters. Reliance has

been placed on RBI's Master Circulars of July 2009, 2014 and 2015. In

case after the cancellation of the leases, they are not able to construct, they

may enter into an arrangement with any reputed builder like NBCC or L&T, 47 etc. A roadmap thereof need be drawn to be monitored by a Monitoring

Committee which duly represents the interest of the home buyers, may also

be directed to be constituted which will not only oversee the work but also

oversee the construction activities and also submit a report to this Court so

that the needs of the home-buyers are finally achieved. A further audit of

connected companies may be ordered. Bank accounts with Bank of

Baroda are operationalised towards maintenance and electricity as families

are residing in 21 Towers have been regularly depositing the electricity and

other dues in their accounts which have become defunct after the

discharge of IRP vide order dated 8.8.2018 passed by this Court. The

amount be utilised for pending bills from August to October 2018 towards

electricity and maintenance services by nominating a Joint Signatory in

place of IRP. 31. Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for home-

buyers has urged that there is the distinction between mortgage and

charge as a mortgage involves the transfer of interest, whereas, in case of a

charge, there is no transfer of interest. He has further urged that non-

production of relevant documents despite the court order, leads to a

presumption of an adverse inference. As Amrapali Group has failed to

comply with the court's order, an adverse inference may be drawn against

them. He has also pressed into service public trust doctrine and submitted

that the State or the public authority which holds the property for the

public or which has been assigned the duty of grant of largesse, etc. acts as 48 a trustee, and therefore, has to act fairly and reasonably, promote public

good and public interest. Public trust doctrine is a part of the law of the

land. The doctrine is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. The action

has to be bona fide. Public property cannot be transferred to private

property in case it affects the public interest. General welfare and common

good are to be kept in view by the public authorities exercising public

power and discharging public duty. 32. Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel further urged that in

view of the findings recorded by the Forensic Auditors, section 8 of the

RERA has to be invoked. He further submitted that even though Amrapali

was defaulting on payments of lease rents, authorities continued to allot

further plots to them. The first lease had been granted on 1.5.2007 and the

last on 30.7.2010. Despite default, they continued to issue permission to

mortgage/NOCs for that purpose between 24.12.2009 and 27.2.2013, in

spite of the fact that there was no payment of premium and advance

annual lease rent up to date. The authorities have acted in breach of clause

7 of the conditions of the lease deed, they failed to monitor the progress of

the project to protect the interest of the public. 33. In reference to banks, Mr. Venugopal submitted that banks were

giving loans to finance Amrapali, in spite of the fact that they were diverted

to other accounts and not utilised for construction. Banks do not even have

effective mortgages because of NOCs. clearly, state that they would become

effective only when Amrapali makes up to date payment of the premium 49 and advance annual lease rent, and under the conditional NOCs., the

banks were required to obtain confirmation from the authorities as to

payment of premium and lease money for the mortgage to become effective.

The banks have not handed over copies of mortgage deeds despite orders.

Moreover, the banks have a second charge after all dues of the Noida and

Greater Noida authorities are realised. The authority's ownership rights

over the plots are paramount. The public sector banks are also subject to

public trust doctrine to the extent that they are custodians of public funds

and are beneficiaries of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer

of Undertaking) Act, 1970 and Banking Companies (Acquisition and

Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980 passed in pursuance of the Directive

Principles under Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution. The facts

demonstrate the collusion between Amrapali Authorities and the banks.

The home buyers who invested their hard-earned money, cannot be

cheated and deprived of their money as well as their houses. Authorities

cannot seek to recover any additional amount from the home buyers. They

must be directed to complete the construction by realising only the

remaining dues from home buyers under their agreements with Amrapali,

by selling off unsold inventory of flats, etc. available with it and by selling

off excess land allotted to Amrapali. The Committees of home buyers must

be set up for each project to monitor the quality and progress of the

construction as well as the costs involved so as to ensure that contractors

do not engage in fraud or inflate construction costs in the course of

completing the projects. 34. On behalf of the home buyers Association, it was submitted that by

promoters of the real estate sector in India from 2008-2009, home buyers

have been promised the houses of which they have been deprived of on a

large scale in spite of the fact that they have paid a substantial amount of

money. Construction has not progressed and money has been diverted

elsewhere. There is a charge of the money of the home buyers must be

treated as the highest priority. They have paid towards dues of Authorities

also which amount has been diverted. Banks and authorities have failed to

discharge their duties. Banks have granted loans to the projects in some

cases which were not sanctioned even on the date of grant of loan. For

example, Phase III of Amrapali Adarsh Awas Yojana Project. Banks have

released the complete payment amounts to the builder without the

construction having been reached even 10 to 20%. As such lending was

not permissible. The current scenario is that the construction of the

various projects is stalled and the home buyers are without any hope of the

promised homes. Certain incumbents who have taken loan are compelled

to repay the loan and money has been siphoned out. As such appropriate

relief be granted to home buyers in view of the facts found in the report of

the Forensic Auditors. 35. On behalf of the home buyers, reliance has been placed on the

provisions contained in section 4(5) of the U.P. Apartments (Promotion of

Construction, Ownership, and Maintenance) Act, 2010 (for short, the ‘U.P.

Apartments Act, 2010’). It is provided that the completion of the 51 construction works of a building as a whole or the completion of an

independent block of such building, as the case may be. The completion

certificate can be issued for the blocks which have been completed. Noida

and Greater Noida authorities are not issuing NOC for the reason that

payment of land dues has not been made by the builder, for which

authorities are also responsible. The non-payment of dues by the builder

should not come in the way as more than 9000 home buyers are already

residing in the buildings. Most of them have paid the entire amount to the

promoter. Others are waiting for the completion of buildings. 36. On behalf of Noida Authority, learned senior counsel submitted that

public trust doctrine is not attracted to the facts in the instant case as

there is no breach of trust. The decision to transfer lease at 10% was the

carefully thought out policy of Noida approved by the State Government. It

was applied uniformly to all and not restricted only to the Amrapali Group.

It was submitted that allotment of group housing plots is made by Noida

authority in accordance with the prevailing policies and rates which have

kept changing with times. In 2007, the allottees were required to pay 10%

of the total premium of the plot as reservation money, before formal

allotment letter was issued. Then, a further amount of 30% had to be paid

within 60 days from the time of allotment. Thus, 40% premium was

required to be paid. Balance 60% had to be paid in eight half-yearly

instalments along with interest. 37. It was further submitted on behalf of the Noida Authority that

primarily on account of the global recession in the world economy, in the

year 2008 a decision was taken to revise the rate of allotment money to

10%. Thus, the total sum of 20% was to be paid before handing over

possession. In the year 2009, the rate of allotment money along with

registration money was revised to 10% of the total premium for the

possession to be handed over. However, steps were taken to provide (i)

facility of re-scheduling of payments in case the allottees intended to

complete his project as per agreed policy; (ii) to exit the project; (iii)

moratorium of two years on payment of balance premium; (iv) facility of

sub-division of plots of area larger than 10 acres so as to make the larger

projects financially viable. 38. It was also submitted on behalf of Noida Authority that after 2005, a

total of 114 plots had been allotted to various group housing societies. 81

have been handed over the possession on payment of 10% of the total

premium. 29 projects, out of these 81, have been completed. Out of other

33 allotted earlier, 11 had been completed, and 7 have obtained part-

completion certificates. Noida Authority, being a responsible public

organisation, has been diligent in pursuing Amrapali Group, it has not

taken the drastic recourse of terminating the lease deed as that would

entail demolition of the existing structures as per the provisions of the

lease deed. In terms of the lease, home buyers have no title or legal rights

to possession of the flats they are occupying. As the projects have been 53 completed to some extent, it would have been unfair to leave the home

buyers in the lurch. The occupancy certificate is issued in accordance with

the provisions of the New Okhla Industrial Development Area Building

Regulations, 2010 (for short, ‘the Regulations of 2010’). Clause 20.0 of the

Building Regulations requires the allottee to submit a notice of completion

of the building, inter alia, with a structural safety certificate, NOCs from

the Fire Department, Explosives department and Environment department.

No building erected, re-erected, can be occupied in whole or in part unless

occupancy certificate is issued by the CEO of the Authority as per clause

20.1.1 of the Regulations. The lessee/promoter is entitled to allot the

dwelling unit on a sub-lease basis. However, he has to make the payment

of premium of the plot to Noida authority when permission to transfer

built-up flats or part with possession of the whole or any part of the

building which has been constructed is granted. The physical possession of

flats can be given to home buyers only after execution of sub-lease deed

and sale deed has also to be registered before actual physical possession of

the flat is handed over as required under the provisions of Registration Act,

1908 . The declaration required to be made under section 12 of the U.P.

Apartments Act, 2010 is also to be filed. 39. It was further urged on behalf of the Noida Authority that the Noida

Authority had the first charge including those created in favour of banks

and financial institutions. The mortgage could have been effected in favour

of Banks/financial institutions recognised by the RBI, National Housing 54 Bank, HUDCO, New Delhi and the charge of such institution shall be the

second charge on the dwelling units, thus, being financed. The permission

to mortgage shall be effective only on making full payment of premium and

up to date annual lease rent of group housing society. An intimation shall

be given to the Authority about the creation of the charge by way of

mortgage. The mortgage permission shall be granted as per the terms of the

lease only on payment of dues of authorities. 40. It is submitted that it is open to the authority to cancel or terminate

the lease. In the case of misrepresentation, suppression or violation of the

conditions of lease and in the case of default and at the time of

cancellation, an amount equivalent to 25% of the total premium of the plot

shall have to be forfeited and possession of plot shall have to be resumed

by Noida Authority with structure thereon. In the instant case, no dues

certificate had not been issued by the Noida authority nor any sub-lease

deed has been executed. The possession by various home buyers in respect

of constructed flats is contrary to the provisions of the lease deed. The

builder could not have handed over the possession. Any occupation of flats

by the home buyers without compliance of mandatory provision of

occupancy certificate and without payment of statutory dues, both to Noida

Authority and to the Collector of Stamps and without execution of tripartite

sub-lease deed may not be termed as legal and as such which could have

resulted in their eventual eviction. 41. It was further submitted on behalf of the Noida Authority that

pursuant to order dated 27.11.2017 passed by this Court, on depositing

10% of the dues to issue completion certificate such NOC could not be

issued and the order passed by this Court has not been complied with by

builder/promoter as such possession could not be handed over. In spite of

reiterating the aforesaid direction of this Court on 31.1.2018, it has not

been complied with by the promoter/leaseholder. It is submitted by the

Noida Authority that its dues to Amrapali group exceed Rs.2191.38 crores

till 30.4.2019. It is in public interest to ensure payment of premium/lease

money with penal interest etc. so that the development of the various

projects at Noida is not impeded. Prayer has been made that in whatever

manner practicable and by whatever scheme this Court may think fit and

proper, aforesaid dues of the authority may be secured and ordered to be

recovered. 42. On behalf of Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, it was

submitted that its dues were Rs.3,234.71 crores as on 15.1.2019 in respect

of 5 group housing plots of Amrapali group. These dues inter alia comprise

of the amounts payable against the premium plus the penal interest for

default, additional compensation and interest thereon, the lease rent and

interest thereon and time extension charges for each of the five plots. Title

in the flats can pass only by way of execution of a registered instrument.

However, before that procedural requirements pointed out on behalf of the

Noida Authority have to be complied with. Once completion certificate is 56 issued, the rights in the flat will pass on to the flat buyers and then they

would contend that the dues of the authority should be recovered from the

builders who have defaulted in making payment and not the flat buyers.

On the basis of that privity of contract, they would contend that the

liability to make payment of the premium and other dues payable to

Greater Noida authority, by lessee/builder is between them and they are

not parties to the lease deed. 43. It is further submitted on behalf of Greater Noida Authority that even

with regard to the issuance of completion certificate for a part of the

projects, the existing policy is that against the part-payment received,

completion certificate would be issued in the same proportion minus 10%,

so that the financial interest of the authority is protected. Therefore, sub-

lease deeds too would be executed up to 90% of the proportion in which

part-payment has been received. It was further submitted by the Greater

Noida Authority that section 19(10) of RERA also provides for taking over of

physical possession after issuance of completion certificate. The provisions

of the U.P. Apartments Act, 2010 are also similar as well the provisions in

the lease deed. 44. It is further submitted on behalf of Greater Noida Authority that FAR

admissible is 02.75 only and not 3.50. The differential FAR of 0.75 is not

purchasable. The calculations made by Amrapali based on FAR of 3.50 is

itself wrong. FAR has not yet been purchased by Amrapali group by

depositing the charges and submission of consent of two-thirds of the 57 apartment owners. Under section 4(2)(1)(D) of RERA, 70% of the amount

received from home buyers is to be put in a separate account to be

maintained in a scheduled bank and is to be used towards construction

and land cost. The land dues payable to Greater Noida authority constitute

an encumbrance as provided in section 4(1)(b) of the U.P. Apartments Act,

2010. As per section 11(4)(c) of RERA, it is the duty of the promoters to

certify that all dues and charges have been paid. Thus, it follows that

money received from the flat buyers is to be spent on construction and

payment of land dues. Therefore, payment of land dues cannot be denied to

it. Land dues are in the nature of public money. Amrapali group is bound

to pay it. The amount is payable in instalments as such same is interest

bearing for availing the facility of payment in instalments as such the land

cost payable increases. In case of default, penal interest follows. There was

no order passed by the Allahabad High Court for staying construction on

the leased plots. Amrapali Group was in possession of the allotted land and

was proceeding with the construction. For 4 years, it has prayed for zero

periods of interest to which the group is not entitled. It would lead to

unjust enrichment by Amrapali as they have realised dues from home

buyers and have not paid to the Authority. The order passed by the NGT

with respect to Okhla Bird Sanctuary case was not applicable to the land in

question. The dues payable to the authority are recoverable as the arrears

of land revenue. The authority has the first charge. The permission to the

mortgage was conditional one, it has not been complied with, in particular,

conditions B, C and D. The mortgage had to be renewed every year and is 58 subject to the payment of land premium, etc. The Greater Noida authority

has written numerous letters to Amrapali group of companies to make the

payment of its dues. In the case of Unitech, yet another Group, the

Authority has cancelled the allotment which was questioned in this Court.

As the cancellation of the allotment in case of Amrapali could have led to

greater complications as construction had commenced with third-party

interest created. It would have opened floodgates to litigation. As such

cancellation of lease deeds was not resorted to. 45. Ms. Geeta Luthra and Mr. Gaurav Bhatia, learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of Amrapali group of companies, have urged that

Amrapali group started its activities in the name of M/s. Ultra Home

Construction Pvt. Ltd. in the year 2003 with the purpose of providing low-

cost housing to projects in Indirapuram (Ghaziabad) Noida, Lucknow,

Indore, Bhilai, and more than 15,000 flats were handed over by the

developers to flat owners in 5 different housing projects in Indirapuram

and Greater Noida. The balance sheets of Amrapali group of companies at

2007-08 shows that it had carried forward the money earned by the

company to launch the projects after 2009-10 upon allotment of plots by

Noida and Greater Noida authorities in their respective areas. Immediately

after the allotment of land, the work was started and the Allahabad High

Court quashed acquisition. It had to be stopped as per the order passed by

the Allahabad High Court. When in 2016 Amrapali group again started to

infuse capital and manpower, proceedings were initiated in NCLT by Bank 59 of Baroda as against Amrapali Silicon City Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Ultra-Home

Constructions Pvt. Ltd. There were legal impediments/force majeure

conditions in completing the projects within the period given in the flat

buyer agreement. The Allahabad High Court finally decided the matter in Gajraj Singh & Ors. v. State of U.P. on 21.10.2011. The Patwari Village issue

was pending before this Court till 2015. On 14.5.2015 this Court finally

decided the matter in the case of Savitri Devi v. State of U.P. It was an

order passed by the National Green Tribunal with respect to Okhla Bird

Sanctuary which also hindered the work. Higher compensation was

ordered to be paid by the Allahabad High Court in 2011. The period of

litigation ought to have been treated as zero periods for the purpose of

payment of dues by Noida and Greater Noida authorities. Amrapali Silicon

City was affected on account of litigation and land acquisition issues. The

work of Leisure Valley, Dream Valley, and Leisure Park were also affected.

There was an issue of the approach road with the farmers with respect to

Sapphire Housing Project. Other projects were also affected due to farmers'

agitation, want of proper roads, etc. The authority was required to give

electricity, sewer and water connections. Proper facilities were not extended

timely. 46. It was further submitted on behalf of Amrapali Group that a High-

Power Committee has been constituted by the State of U.P. A sum of Rs.

2,715 crores are to be paid to the authorities including the interest and

purchasable FSI costs. The outstanding of banks is Rs.985 crores. It was 60 submitted that the projects are viable in case some relief is granted

towards land dues of authorities and dues of the banks. The joint

inspection indicated that substantial construction had been carried out.

The cost of construction to complete the launched projects, as per NBCC is

Rs.6827 crores; whereas the cost as per Amrapali group is Rs.5630 crores.

Calculation of NBCC is wrong. The projects are divided into 3 categories: (i)

where the allottees were living; (ii) advanced stage of construction; and (iii)

work is at a nascent stage. The amount defaulted by buyers is Rs.511

crores, total receivables from them are Rs.5,332 crores. The encumbered

and unencumbered assets can be sold to complete the project. The

valuation worked out by the DRT comes to Rs.7,353 crores considering the

maximum permissible FAR of 3.50. The order may be passed in respect of

amounts due from Raipur and Bhubaneswar Housing Board which are

recoverable from them to deposit in Court. Certain suggestions have also

been made on behalf of Amrapali group for arranging the required funds.

That home buyer may be directed to pay the cost. Unsold inventory of the

launched projects on sale would generate Rs.1,922 crores. In case of any

shortfall, there can be a sale of unencumbered assets of the company.

Reputed builders may be engaged for undertaking the construction of the

various projects. Amrapali has spent Rs.10,630 crores as against

Rs.11,652 crores received from home buyers. As per the affidavits dated

16.5.2018 and 3.12.2018, the total cash outflow is Rs.395 crores utilised

by the group in the creation of assets whose current valuation as per DRT

is Rs.1200 crores. The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have partial 61 registration policies as provided in Building Regulations and the Act and an

appropriate Committee may be constituted for supervision. Amrapali group

shall extend all help in the building of the projects. 47. With respect to the report of the Forensic Auditors, it has been

submitted that there is no undervaluation in booking the flats. The value of

flats depends upon the situation etc. as the flats were booked at different

times, they have different prices as per the prevailing market. In certain

cases, the customers took possession of various Towers in partially

unfinished conditions and managed the pending work by themselves. In

some projects, lifts were installed by the customers' associations. In some

other cases, interiors of the flats were finalised by the customers

themselves. Amrapali group reduced the value of such flats in their books

accordingly. 48. With respect to other amounts recoverable from

KMPA/relatives/Directors, as per the affidavit submitted by Shiv Priya on

20.11.2018, Rs.4.3 crores were paid towards his taxes. The same has been

adjusted against the salary due of Rs.4.4 crores from various Amrapali

group of companies. Salary of Rs.1.6 crores is recoverable by Shiv Priya

from Amrapali group of companies. As per the affidavit of Mr. Ajay Kumar,

Rs.1.21 crores were paid by the company towards his taxes out of his

outstanding salary up to 31.3.2015. Though his salary for the financial

years 2016-18 is still to be mentioned in the books of accounts on account

of his due salary. A sum of Rs.25 lakhs has been paid by him to Ultra 62 Home Construction Pvt. Ltd.; in addition, a sum of Rs.25 lakhs paid to

Yogesh Chand is duly debited in his ledger and as mentioned in his

affidavit. 49. With respect to Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., it was submitted

that an advance to Directors of Rs.113.54 crores was used by the Directors

to purchase shares of Ultra Home Construction Pvt. Ltd. Ideally, the shares

should have been issued in the name of Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.

The money moved from Amrapali Infrastructures Pvt. Ltd. to Ultra Home

Construction Pvt. Ltd. Precast Factory’s valuation is Rs.179 crores. Mr.

Anil Kumar Sharma has surrendered the shares in favour of Amrapali

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. to the extent of INR 73.2 crores. Mr. Shiv Priya has

surrendered the shares in Amrapali Infrastructure Pt. Ltd. during 2018-19

of Rs.35.1 crores. 50. With respect to Amrapali Hospitality Services Pvt. Ltd., it was

submitted that the company gave Rs.6.62 crores to Directors as advances

out of which Rs.6.55 crores were given to Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma and his

family. In the financial year 2017-18, Rs.2.25 crores were used by Mr. Anil

Kumar Sharma for payment of housing loan of Jay Pee Green Property.

Rs.1.25 crores were deposited with this Court by way of Demand Draft,

Rs.0.85 crores were paid to settle the bank loan of Leisure Valley Villa and

Rs.0.5 crores were transferred for payment of TDS liability of Amrapali

hospital. 51. With respect to Hi-Tech City Developers Pvt. Ltd., the Auditor's report

indicates that a sum of Rs.4.24 crores was given as an advance to Mr. Anil

Kumar Sharma in 2009-10 which was used by him for purchasing shares

of Ultra Home Construction Pvt. Ltd. Ideally, the shares should have been

issued in the name of Amrapali group of companies. No transfer of money

was there. Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma had surrendered shares in favour of

Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., during the year 2018-19 but this has not

been reflected in the books of the company. With respect to cash in hand,

there is no consistency in the report of the auditors. Only Rs.9 crores were

available in cash in various group companies. The entire amount was spent

on payment of wages due to various labours at different times. With respect

to other recoverable advanced to various parties amounting to Rs.234.31

crores, the details are not available in the report. These advances are

against genuine business transactions. There is a possibility that such

expenses have not been booked and squared off. 52. With respect to the diversion of home buyers amount to the extent of

Rs.3,500 crores and bogus billing of Rs.1500-1600 crores, out of the total

amount received from home buyers of Rs.11,652 crores would leave INR

6,652 crores for carrying out the existing construction at sites. The total

sum available for construction purposes comes to Rs.4,352 crores, after

deducting the amount of payment to the authorities and banks of Rs.1,000

crores and Rs.1,300 crores respectively. With respect to non-genuine

purchases from suppliers, though a sum of Rs.554 crores was given to the 64 income-tax authorities, on appeal the error had been corrected by the

income-tax authorities. There was an error in the report of the forensic

auditors. The report of the forensic auditors as to non-existing companies

is also not correct. It is further submitted that Gaurisuta Infrasolution Pvt.

Ltd., which manufactures PVC doors and windows had business

transactions with Amrapali group, payment/advances were made to them.

It is a fact that parties are related. It does not mean that all transactions

are dubious. Law does not prevent such transactions. The short term and

long-term loans to third parties were not for diverting loan funds and home

buyer funds to group companies. 53. With respect to Auditors’ list of 27 companies formed for the purpose

of routing the cash of the companies, were formed before demonetisation.

With respect to J.P. Morgan Property Mauritius Company-II, Amrapali

Zodiac Developers Pvt. Ltd. transferred money to another company to buy-

back stake in J.P. Morgan but did not do it directly as share buy-back

rules did not permit such transactions. It may be maximum violations of

the Companies Act but is not a diversion of money. With respect to FEMA,

it is submitted that again it is a violation of ECB guidelines but again it

was not a case of diversion of money. Money was needed for construction,

therefore, arrangement with J.P. Morgan was made. 54. With respect to doubt of Forensic Auditors as to the genuineness of

interest paid by Amrapali Silicon City Pvt. Ltd. to IPFFI and claiming

interest @ 17% which is very high, it was submitted that rate of interest 65 depends upon the money lending transactions and is not illegal or

prohibited in law. 55. With respect to charging for professional services and fee by

Directors, it was stated that a person rendering professional services

should have a membership of professional bodies and have some certificate

of practice. A lot of companies pay a professional/consulting fee to

outsiders to assist them in their business. Amrapali group has also paid

salaries and consultation fees to Directors as they were providing their

expertise and skill. Ultimately prayer had been made to evolve some

mechanism for completion of housing projects. 56. On behalf of Royal Golf Link City Projects Pvt. Ltd., it is submitted

that a loan of Rs.50 crores or Rs.48,52,05,100 was paid by Ultra Home

Constructions Pvt. Ltd. to Royal Golf. Interest @ 9% amounting to

Rs.5,83,42,977 has been paid to Ultra Home. Subsequently, the agreement

has been entered into to repay Rs.50,46,78,022 by 31.3.2017 or in lieu

thereof 30 Villas have to be allotted by Royal Golf to Ultra Homes. This

Court has attached 30 Villas allotted to Ultra Home. It is ready to give 30

Villas by 30.4.2021 or to refund the amount of Rs.48,46,78,022 in 4 equal

quarterly instalments in full and final settlement of all claims of Amrapali

group. 57. On behalf of Bank of Baroda, it has been submitted that Forensic

Auditors have made adverse comments without any basis. Bank of Baroda 66 had deployed suitable methods to monitor the utilisation of funds. No

diversion of funds was permitted by Bank of Baroda. Monitoring of the loan

was done and before sanction of the loan, the net worth of the

promoters/Directors of ASCPL was ascertained. Bank of Baroda relied

upon a letter dated 29.7.2010 from Noida to ASCPL. The term loan

agreement was executed amongst ASCPL, Bank of Baroda, Bank of

Maharashtra and Oriental Bank of Commerce "Consortium" for a term loan

of Rs.300 crores. After execution of due documents and deeds of corporate

guarantee issued in favour of Bank of Baroda, corporate guarantees were

submitted by Ultra Homes Construction, Jotindra Steels and Tubes Ltd.

along with Vidhyashree Buildcon. Pvt. Ltd. RoC search report of guarantors

was also obtained. NOC of Noida dated 21.2.2012 for mortgaging the

project site to procure a term loan from the consortium was also obtained.

A detailed project report was issued by Solomon Consulting Pvt. Ltd. There

was the appointment of independent lender's Engineer and thereafter

accounting was done, post-disbursal of loan by Bank of Baroda. The money

was released on the basis of lenders Engineers advice of Rs.49 crores out of

Rs.55 crores. Thus, there was no lack of due diligence and considering the

progress of construction, steps had been taken by the Bank of Baroda to

protect its interests after the account became NPA. Active steps were taken

to recover the amount. The similar mechanism had been adopted for

Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. With respect to Ultra Homes Construction

Pvt. Ltd., also a loan of Rs.75 crores was sanctioned out of which Rs.65.84

crores were disbursed for the construction and development of an 67 Integrated Information Technology Park, (IT Park), Hotel, Commercial

complex, service apartments and residential complex on Plot No.59, Sector

Knowledge Park-V, Greater Noida, which were executed by Mr. Anil Kumar

Sharma, Mr. Ajay Kumar, Mr. Shiv Priya and Mr. Madan Mohan Sharma.

Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt. Ltd. was granted a loan of Rs.75 crores. It

was not utilised for payment of the cost of land or for payment of

construction cost. The amount has been repaid and the account has been

closed. The money may have been routed through various suppliers and

contractors. The remittance of money is nothing but an example of due

conduct of business. With respect to the release of the corporate guarantee

of M/s. Jotindra Steel and Tubes Pvt. Ltd., it is submitted that they were

unable to infuse share capital as required and seemed unable to do so in

the future as well. The shares due to M/s. Jotindra Steel and Tubes Pvt.

Ltd. were also allotted to M/s. Ultra-Homes Construction Pvt. Ltd. Thus,

the Bank of Baroda granted the request for release of the corporate

guarantee in favour of M/s. Jotindra Steel and Tubes Pvt. Ltd. Amrapali

group had the right to mortgage the property as per the mortgage deed.

There was no bank charge on the property mortgaged by Amrapali group.

As per clause 15 of the mortgage deed, the buyer shall have no right after

paying all amounts. The developer shall continue to have full authority over

the flat unless a registered deed is executed in favour of the allottee. It is

also submitted that the home buyers are not secured creditors. The home

buyers were to acquire the premises on sub-lease basis which was never

intended or stated anywhere that a sale would take place. The allottee shall 68 not have any lien or interest on the flat unless sub-lease deed is executed.

Therefore, they are not secured creditors, they have no right, title or

interest or lien on the basis of allotment from flat buyer agreement. It is

further submitted that the agreement does not create any rights in

praesenti with a promise to enter into a future agreement. It does not

create any right, title, interest or claim in the immovable property. In the

absence of registration of document under the Registration Act , no rights

are created in the immovable property in question under section 49 of the

Registration Act. 58. With respect to RERA provisions, it has been submitted by Bank of

Baroda that section 11(4) of RERA deals with the interaction between

repayment to secured creditors and rights of allottees. Sub-section (h) of section 11(4) states that the promoter shall not create a mortgage or charge

after an agreement to sell has been executed. Therefore, the promoter is

permitted to create such mortgage or charge prior to the execution of an

agreement to sell. Section 4(2)(1) of RERA requires the promoter to disclose

the prior encumbrance to the real estate authority. Under section 34(b) it is

required to publish and maintain a website of records. Section 19(4)(1) of

RERA provides that if the promoter fails to complete or is unable to give

possession of an apartment, plot or building, the rights of allottees are

restricted to receive the compensation from the promoter. The rights of

allottees under section 19 of RERA can be contrasted with the right of the

mortgagee who secured creditors under section 58 of the Transfer of 69 Property Act, 1882 . The RERA is restricted to protect the rights and

interests of the allottees from the promoters and developers. RERA

recognises and protects the rights of the lenders and does not in any

manner take away any right under the existing statutes like the T.P. Act ,

SARFAESI, etc. RERA has not brought any change in the nature of the

rights of home buyers. The Bank is entitled to receive its money along with

interest in the event of failure to repay by builder/ promoter.

IN RE: FORENSIC AUDITORS 59. The Forensic Auditors have submitted their report running into eight

volumes. It has been observed that the Amrapali Group was started in

2003 by Mr. Madan Mohan Sharma. Later on, it was managed by his son

Mr. Anil Sharma. He gradually expanded his team and Mr. Shiv Priya, Mr.

Ajay Kumar, Mr. Nishant Mukul, Mr. Chander Wadhwa, Mr. Mohit Gupta,

Mr. Adhikari Das, and others joined in. By 2010, the Amrapali Group was

leading real estate development firms, promising to offer luxury and

comfort. In the beginning, the Amrapali Group has constructed and

completed certain projects and earned the goodwill of the general public in

the real estate business. The Amrapali Group used unfair means to

promote themselves. It made false promises to lure the public to invest in

its projects, purposefully delayed construction, cheated home-buyers for

the title of flats and trapped home-buyers in rental returns. The Amrapali

Group floated several companies. The public invested their hard earned

money in Amrapali projects and the shareholders used these funds to 70 infuse capital in other companies/entities. Home buyers were cheated by

making false promises/claims for example selling of flats which were not

even part of the master plan of projects or unapproved in the master plan,

double booking of the same flat by different customers. The homebuyers

funds were diverted to other companies/directors through payment of

professional fees, by way of booking of bogus bills of Rs.837 crores, by

selling flats as undervalued prices in book and received differential market

value in cash, by paying commission and brokerage on bogus booking of

flats and by way of granting inter-corporate deposits of Rs.3,000 crores to

related entities and Rs.500 crores to unrelated entities/trusted partners for

ultimately diverting funds to unapproved uses.

SUMMARY OF REPORT OF FORENSIC AUDIT 60. The summary of report submitted by Forensic Auditors in the Court

is as under: Thereafter the operations of the Group were managed by his son - Mr. Anil
 Sharma. Gradually, he expanded his team and Mr. Shiv Priya, Mr. Ajay
 Kumar, Mr. Nishant Mukul, Mr. Chander Wadhwa, Mr. Mohit Gupta, Mr.
 Adhikari Das and other trusted partners/executives joined in. The Group
 was into the business of construction of residential complexes, townships,
 offices, commercial complexes. The Group built good reputation in the
 public and launched several projects in various cities in India. By 2010,
 the Group was a leading real estate development firms in India and
 particular in North India, promising to offer luxury and comfort in every
 project that it takes up. Subsequently, Mr. Mahender Singh Dhoni became
 brand ambassador of the Group. To achieve good standing in the eyes of public, the Group used unfair
 means to promote themselves. The Group made false promises to lure
 public to invest in its projects, purposefully delayed construction, cheated
 homebuyers over title of flats, trapped homebuyers in rental returns, sold
 flats at exorbitantly low prices and recovered market price in cash from
 them, among other unfair means adopted by them. The Group floated 71 several companies through its directors, staff, trusted partners which were
incorporated solely to divert homebuyers funds. The Group collaborated
with external parties like JP Morgan in contravention of FEMA and
distributed returns along with principal amount, even though it did not
book gains within the business of the company. Similarly, it collaborated
with several other third parties and invested in other projects and built a
cycle of returns in the form of unaccounted cash. The Group treated
moneys received from home buyers as its own capital and used this money
for investing in exclusively personal purposes, for example in constructing
Amrapali hospital, hotels, malls, making movies etc. The Group booked
bogus expenses and routed funds to trusted partners. The Group also
used homebuyers funds for building personal properties, investment in
mutual funds, expenses in daughter’s wedding, purchase of luxury cars,
watches, building luxurious houses for directors etc. The Promoters
diversified to different verticals i.e. Education, Entertainment (in making
movies), FMCG, infrastructure, Shopping Malls, technology parks, hotel
etc. from the diverted Home Buyers funds. The Promoters didn’t invest any
paisa in such verticals and the whole empire was created out of the
diversion. The Promoters created a web of more than 150 companies (Page No. 16-19
Volume I) for routing the funds and creating assets. About 100 Companies
were under the supervision and control of promoters used mainly for the
purpose of diversion of funds. The Directors and Shareholders of these
Companies were benami and were the trusted junior employees of
promoters. CFO and the Statutory Auditors. It is observed that the Company, i.e. management, CFO, the Statutory
Auditors and key managerial persons deliberately and for reasons best
known to them did not prepare the accounts till 31st March, 2018 or
thereafter as nobody wanted to let anybody know where the funds moved
from 31.3.2015 onwards. In absence of Book of Accounts, we are
constrained to report that the management deliberately withdrew the Bank
Balances for making payments to some person and brought down the
huge bank balance to negligible amount. The management has diverted the Home Buyers’ funds from one Company
to another Company in a very clever, pre-planned and clandestine
manner. The management could not have done this without the full
support of its CFO and the Statutory Auditors. As per the submissions
made, many companies were controlled by CFO and the Statutory
Auditors to which huge funds have been transferred. It can therefore, be
easily said that both CFO and the Statutory Auditor were Master Mind
behind these types of planning for diversion and the misuse of funds. It
may be important to mention here that funds were transferred from one
Company to another and to third and to fourth and so on thereby
absolutely confusing any person to find out the real trail where the money
has gone, since there are more than 100 Companies through which these
funds have been routed over the period. 2. HISTORY OF ALLEGATIONS
Bank of Baroda and several other banks filed a petition before NCLT under section 7 of the Code for triggering Corporate Insolvency Resolution 72 process in the matter of Amrapali Group Companies.

Homebuyers filed petition seeking construction and possession of around
42000 flats booked in Amrapali Group

On 6th September 2018, Supreme Court appointed Mr. P K Aggarwal and
Mr. Ravi Bhatia as joint forensic auditors to audit into the matter.

ACCOUNTING PACKAGE
The group was using Tally till March, 2015 for all of its group companies.
In April 2015, it introduced Far Vision an ERP which was not implemented
properly. The opening balances were not properly entered.
In November 2016, the group left half way Far vision and started recording
partial transaction in tally. To avoid the traceability, of the transactions, the Promoters and CFO and
Adhikari (G.M Accounts) recorded the financial transactions up to March
2015 in Accounting Package tally, then shifted to FARVISION from April
2015 and continued till March 2016, and thereafter partially recorded
transaction in tally and a for a few companies in FARVISION and
thereafter in tally. This was intentionally plan. The companies of the group
stopped getting the annual accounts prepared and filing returns to Roc
and Income tax. 3. Auditors
The Following Firms carried out the Audit of the Group Companies
during the period: Purchase bills have been accounted for in the books of accounts
without receipt of physical goods and purchase bills have been
accounted for of suppliers who do not exist. There was an Income Tax
search and seizure on 9th September, 2010 and 7th August, 2013.
During the search held on 7th August, 2013, it was held by the Income
Tax Authorities that purchases are being made from bogus suppliers
without receiving the goods physically. The total amount of purchases
from such suppliers as observed by the Income Tax department
amounted to Rs.842.42 Crores approximately.. In order to confirm the genuineness of these suppliers and a few other
 suppliers we have sent written communication/ letters by speed post to
 them in order to confirm the transactions with the Amrapali Group of
 Companies. Most of these letters have been received back with the
 remarks “No such firm exists at the specified address”.

 In addition to above, there is no system of calling quotations for
 purchases and there is no internal control with respect to inventory. We
 have spotted out further certain non-genuine supplies as per details
 given below: These transactions seem to be mere accommodation entries, where all
 purchase/ sales are recorded on a single day only. Further, it was also
 explained that M/s B S Promotors have made the sales against Bank
 Letter of Credit which has been discounted by them from their bankers.
 This seems to be a case of manipulation with the banks also since there
 is no movement of goods but entries within the Amrapali Group only.

 Further, it is observed the balance outstanding of INR 5.11 Crores due
 to the B S Promotors as on 31st March, 2016, has been adjusted against
 payment made by home buyers directly to the B S Promotors and by
 allotting a flat to M/s B S Promotors. However, the authorized
 representative of the B S Promotor has refuted this fact vehemently and
 asserted that it has not received any payment from the home buyers of
 the Amrapali Group, nor it has received any flat. Thus, the flat allotted
 to B S Promoters on paper needs to be attached and put to sale.
 Moreover, a sum of INR 1.06 crores as 5% of the margin earned by M/s
 B S Promoters needs to be recovered from him as they have neither
 received goods nor supplied any good and only acted as Billing agent for
 which they need not be claiming INR 1.06 crores as their margin. (ii) Kanodia Cements
While scrutinizing the purchase bills of this supplier it was noted that
the slips of Weigh Bridge in the case of purchase of Bajri trucks show
time interval of 4-5 Minutes only. This doesn’t seem to be possible that
a full truck of Bajri takes only 4-5 minutes to enter into the site and
come back on the weigh bridge again with empty truck in 4-5 minutes.
No satisfactory explanation has been furnished by the management
regarding this issue. Sample of such instances have been enclosed
below: As these bills of Kanodia Cements are prima facie held to be bogus, the
entire sum of INR 11.69 Crores booked as purchases from Kanodia
Cements should be recovered from them or from the Management for
inflating their purchase by debiting bogus invoices.

Bogus expense and cash surrendered in income tax search
Cash has been surrendered by the Amrapali group in the first Income
Tax search conducted on 9th September, 2010. No source of this cash
has been explained by the management. According to the Balance sheet of Amrapali Sapphire Developers Private
Limited examined by us, cash surrendered is shown as miscellaneous
income in the profit and loss account during 2010-11 amounting to
Rs.1.39 Crores. It is further submitted that in the second search conducted by Income
tax Authorities on 7th August, 2013, the Amrapali group had
surrendered an additional income of Rs.125 crores.

Both these facts clearly depict that Amrapali group was having inflow of
unaccounted cash collected from either the Home Buyers or collected
cash from Bogus purchases made or by advancing money to various
parties and taking cash from them. While scrutinizing the Audited Financial Statements of the Companies 75 for the Financial Year 2013-14, it is observed that no additional income
has been shown. There is only jugglery of accounting transactions
where sales have been shown by way of part completion method and the
relevant cost is also debited to this part completion sale by changing the
Accounting Method which was being followed by the Amrapali Group of
companies in the earlier years. This method of accounting was changed
for 2 financial years only i.e. for Financial Year 2012-13 and Financial
Year 2013-14. This method was changed just to make adjustment in
accordance with the letter of surrender. In fact, there is no surrender of
additional income, it only amounts to preponement of sale being shown
in these years instead of it in the later years. Cash has also been surrendered in the first search conducted on 9th
September, 2010 and no source of this cash has been explained by the
management. This clearly explains that there was flow of un-accounted
cash from various sources to the Amrapali Group of Companies.

A note was also stated in the Audited Financial Statements for the
financial year 2010-11 as follows: The Bankers, in our opinion, turned a Blind Eye to the various transfer
of funds from one account to another for reasons best known to them.
They didn’t inquire the huge transfer of funds from various accounts
which were being routed every day. Had they been slightly more vigilant
to monitor and control transfer of funds, the Management would have
not dared to launder the money from one Company to another
according to their whims and fancies and the Bankers are solely
responsible for the negligence on their part. Banks did not do any monitoring that whether the funds disbursed
were used for approved purposes or not. The loan sanctioned as term
loan were diverted on the very same day of receipt. The land payment
were not paid etc.

Bank of Maharashtra – Term Loan has been released by transferring the
amount to the Current account during the financial year 2009-10 to
2012-13. There has been no monitoring by the bank to ensure the end
use of utilization of the funds. This amount was paid from the Current account for other than
business activities of this Company. It is observed that there was no monitoring done by the officials of Bank
of Maharashtra, Andhra Bank and other banks by releasing of term
loan to the Company. Even basic checks as required by the Bank were
forgone and not ensured by the Bank Officials regarding the end
utilization of the term loan funds for the purpose for which they were
granted. It seems that the Bank officials overlooked all these important
aspects and granted these loans to them without going into any
technical requirements as relating to release of Term Loan facilities to a
borrower. The banks acted as mute spectator to unapproved
diversion which was almost happening evidently in all banking
transactions. Optionally Convertible Debentures
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited had given a sum
of INR 74 crores approximately on account of debentures issued by
Amrapali Sapphire Developers Private Limited during the financial year
2011-12. These debentures carried interest rate @ 17% Per annum.

There has been a gross non-compliance of Investors cum-shareholders
agreement dated 16th Day of December, 2010 with respect to following: Moreover, ASCPL has paid interest of Rs.58.81 Crores @ 17%
(which is a highly abnormal rate) so far to IPFII, Singapore during
the last 3 years. a) It is very clear that all such violations are being made with the
 knowledge of the IPFII Singapore and they are in Connivance with the
 ASCPL. b) As per Schedule 4 of the agreement CCD’s (Compulsory Convertible
 Debenture) were subject to the following terms and conditions. 1) On expiry of 5 years from the date of allotment, the CCD shell
 be fully monetarily and compulsorily converted into class B
 shares of the company 2) The CCD’s shall be converted into such number of class B
 shares arrived that by dividing the aggregate face value of
 CCD’s by Rs.2,734.30. But these CCD’s were not converted into class B shares as per
agreement but entered into another agreement to extend the term
of CCD’s from 5 years to 7 years. By this way , The fund has
continued to be a creditor otherwise after conversion to equity, it
will not be eligible for interest and principal.

Current liabilities not payable
Security deposits from contractors and intercorporate deposits accepted
from non group companies are in the nature of unsecured loans. There
have been no business transactions with the company except movement
of funds. The list of such liabilities is under preparation which are not
payable. Inter-corporate deposits accepted by the Group are Non-Interest-
bearing unsecured loans. There are no business transactions with these
companies. It is not understood as to why a person will give interest free
loans without any considerations. Thus, we are of the view that these
are accommodation entry only in lieu of consideration given to them
indirectly by the management. Hence, we are of the view that all the aforesaid amounts are not
payable. In our opinion, this is a case of Money Laundering as the generic term
of Money Laundering is defined to describe the process by which
Criminals disguise the original ownership and control the proceeds of
the criminal conduct by making such proceeds to have derived from a
legitimate source. Money Laundering is the process of concealing the origin of money
obtained illegally by passing it through a complex sequence of Banking
transfers or commercial transactions. The main process is accounting
for the proceeds without raising the suspicion of law enforcement
agencies. In the instant case too, Amrapali Group of Companies have
defied all laws to transfer small and big amounts from one account to
another to a third and so on and so forth on a single day with the
connivance of the Bank officials and financial institution officials and
thereby Committed act of Money Laundering on a large scale. 6. Lands allotted to consortium and flats sold to homebuyers
Several companies were formed with consortium partners which were
just dummy companies and were part and parcel of Amrapali group. To
comply with the condition of minimum 3 partners, these companies
were created in the names of office boys and peons. Technically the
allotments at the initial stage itself were void ab-initio. In most of the
companies, the amount received from homebuyers was sufficiently more
than the amount spent on construction and for payment of land. Had
the promoters paid amount received from homebuyers to the authorities
on time there would not have been any liability of land dues. Further
there was no need to avail any loan from banks, Private equity funds as
well as from investors. The sole objective of taking loan was to divert
the funds to other ventures to create assets in the name of family
members, make movies, to satisfy the ambitious desires of family
members and to build hospital. Villas were bought at tourist
destinations for fun at the expense of middle class and low income
group peoples abodes. Many parties joined them in the looting of hard
earned money of homebuyers to take their share of the cake in the form
of unbelievable return on investment, profits, land, FSI and flats and
facilities at throwaway prices. Bogus expenses were booked and the
promoters were having no fear of the law of the land. They could
execute many transactions of transfer of properties, booking of
expenses, funds transfer, even when the petition was accepted and was
pending for disposal before the Honourable Supreme Court. Companies
in which land was allotted to consortium partners are as under: Rakesh Mahajan jointly hold 49% in the said company (i) There is no substance in the nature of transactions carried
 on by the company. The funds are merely routed from one
 entity to another for hidden objective. (ii) Banks were financing not the construction activity but loans
 and advances to third parties. (iii) Mr. Rakesh Mahajan and Mr. Ifthikar Khan were grossly
 involved in the wrongdoings in the company’s project and
 equally conspired in the delay and diversion of home buyers
 funds and they being 49% shareholders and active directors
 in the company should be held responsible for the deficit in
 completion of the project amounting to Rs.20 crore.

Further, Amrapali Infrastructure had given an advance of Rs.1.5 crore
to Nirala Infracity Ajmer Pvt Ltd - a project controlled by Rakesh
Mahajan and Iftikar Ahmed. This amount is recoverable from Nirala
Infracity Ajmer Pvt Ltd. 7. Companies created solely for the purpose of routing funds
The intention of Amrapali Group was to divert funds to other
projects/income sources in the name of family members of the promoter
and the trusted employees, friends of the promoters as well of the
executives, auditors and their relatives. For this purpose, several
companies were incorporated for routing funds. These companies did
not have any material transaction as per the main object for which they
were incorporated and did not have business since their incorporation.
These companies did not have any employees also. These companies are
shell companies used only to route interest free funds from one
company to another. List of such companies identified so far is as
under: Since incorporation, loans (liability) and loans & advances (asset)
increased as under, without booking of any expense/income: It is pertinent to note that starting from the FY 2015-16, the loans given
and taken increased three folds without having any corresponding
increased on the income and assets side on account of interest.
Whereas starting from FY 2015-16, the employees started leaving the
organization and the construction at sites was at standstill. The
directors in the company are having no knowledge or an iota of idea
about the transactions carried out. The company’s operation were
under the controlled and supervision of CFO Chander Wadhwa.

Further, it received Rs.18.95 crore from Suspense- unidentified
persons/parties and paid Rs.24.41 crore to Suspense- unidentified
persons/parties, leaving balance payable of Rs.5.46 crore to Suspense-
unidentified persons/parties. The said transactions of Rs.18.95 crore
details were not made available to us. b) Gaurisuta Infrastructure Private Limited – It lent and received
funds from several parties without doing any business. Details of Rs.25
crore received from third parties are as under: The above companies were used for the purpose of money
laundering and required a detailed investigation. Further the
amount as shown above is not payable to the party as indicated
against. None of the parties as above has lodged any claim so far
therefore it strengthens our charge. As on 31st March 2017, the company is having interest free loans and
advances amounting to Rs.703 crore without any movement with a paid
up share capital of merely Rs.0.01 crore and the directors are
employees and junior employees of statutory auditors. The company is
used as a conduit in diverting home buyer funds to Amrapali
Healthcare (Noida Hospital) and buying shares in different group
companies from the funds of home buyers. The entire shareholding
should be attached and be made up for sale. c) Neelkanth Buildcraft Private Limited - It was formed in the year
2013 having a capital of Rs.0.01 crore for the specific purpose of buying
shares from JP Morgan. Mr Chandan Kumar, director of Neelkanth
Buildcraft Private Limited is an office boy in the office of Statutory
Auditor of Amrapali Group, Mr Anil Mittal and the other director Mr
Vivek Mittal is nephew of Statutory Auditor Mr Anil Mittal & does small
time jobs. d) Stunning Construction Private Limited – The Company is
holding 19.75 % shareholding in LA Residentia Developers Pvt. Ltd. is a
consortium partner in the project since beginning. LA Residentia project
has 3200 flats LA Residentia should surrender either 19.75% of land or
632 flats. It was formed only for payment of Statutory dues of Amrapali
Group of Companies, its directors and their relatives including senior
employees of the Amrapali Group of Companies. The company was
under the direct control of CFO Chander Wadhwa and Company
Secretary Pankaj Mehta. The amount of taxes paid by the company on
behalf of promoters, directors, executives and their family members is
Rs.17.43 crore (net) and gross up is Rs.24.9 crore is recoverable from
promoters, directors, executives and their relatives. e) Kapila Buildhome Private Limited – The company did not
undertake any business. A sum of Rs.392.68 Crores was advanced as
loan or advances to the various group Companies. Further, it accepted
non-interest bearing inter corporate deposits from non group companies
with whom no other transactions were undertaken. We are of the view
that these are accommodation book entries only in lieu of consideration
given to them indirectly by the management. List is as stated
hereunder: The above companies were used for the purpose of money laundering
and required a detailed investigation. Further the amount as shown
above is not payable to the party as indicated against. None of the 85 parties (except PAN Realtors that also when we requested them
otherwise they were silent for last 8 Years) as above has lodged any
claim so far therefore it strengthens our charge. f) Rudraksh Infracity Private Limited- Shri Chandan Kumar, an
office boy and employee of CA Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor and Shri
Atul Mittal, relative of CA Anil Mittal were inducted in the board. The
basic purpose of this Company was only for money laundering and
was incorporated to receive Funds from Mannat Buildcraft Private
Limited. After receiving money (Rs.25 Cr.) from Mannat Buildcraft
Private Limited, the same was transferred to J.P. Morgan Investments
for purchase of Equity Shares of Amrapali Zodiac Private Limited at an
exorbitant price. There are no transactions before or after these
transfers of money and the same have been camouflaged to make it
look with business transactions on the basis of the Valuation Report.

It was also observed that there are no transactions at any date during
the period but the bank account has only been used for diversion of
funds. g) Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited - Shri Pankaj Mehta is
Company Secretary of Amrapali group of Companies and now Partner of
Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO in Saffron Consultants LLP and Mr. Ashish
Jain who is also Partner of Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO in Saffron
Consultants LLP, were inducted in the board. The basic purpose of this
Company was only for money laundering (Rs.120 Cr.) and was
incorporated to receive Funds from Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private
Limited. The whole racket of money laundering and receiving money from these
Companies i.e. Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited, Rudraksh Infracity
Private Limited and Neelkanth Buildcraft private Limited are the brain
child of Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO and Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor
of Amrapali Group of Companies. Both these Companies are controlled
by both of these persons and had been formed only for this Money
Laundering Business. There are no transactions before or after these
transfers of money and the same have been camouflaged to make it look
with business transactions on the basis of the Valuation Report. h) Amrapali Magadh Developers Pvt Ltd - The company has not
carried out principal business activities. There is no bank account. The
purpose of creating the company is not clear. The shareholders paid the
share application money in cash. The company is a dormant company
& did not have any significant transaction. i) Amrapali Mahi Developers Pvt Ltd - The company received share
capital in cash and all the expenses were paid in cash only. Mr.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni, husband of Ms. Sakshi Singh Dhoni (director of
company) was the brand ambassador of Amrapali group and have
carried out a number of transactions with respect to endorsement of
Amrapali group’s projects. He entered in agreements with other group
company. j) Amrapali Spring Valley Pvt Ltd- the company is created for
diversion of funds and Rs.186 crore was diverted from Amrapali Smart
City Pvt Ltd to buy shares of Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd and
shareholders are promoter directors without doing any investments.

Most of the above companies will qualify to be NBFC, which was
reported neither by the management nor by the statutory auditors
(except Jhamb Finance & Leasing Pvt Ltd). It is recommended that RBI
shall investigate the affairs and compliances of the above companies.

Amrapali Media Vision Pvt Ltd was also incorporated with a purpose
to route funds for making movies to satisfy the ambitious desires of
directors/family members. Most of the marketing and advertisement
business of the group companies was given to the company with a profit
margin on the cost. The group could have done this advertisement
directly. But because there was need to make movies, the funds were
diverted to the company directly in the form of loan as well by availing
the services indirectly from these companies. The Company was freely
availing funds of homebuyers from other group Companies in the form
of ICD and spent it on making movies. Hawthrone Intellect Management Solutions Pvt Ltd –Company was
providing Management Consultancy Services (Recruitment Services)
and taking nominal professional fee. In turn, the Company has
incurred more expenses in the last few years on account of Salary,
Wages and other administrative expenses thereby resulting in net loss
to the Company which has accumulated to INR 2.33 Crores as on
31.03.2015. All these entries seem to be in nature of dubious entries and no voucher
are available. This amount of loss of 2.33 Crores needs to be recovered
from the Directors as they have wiped of the amount of the Home
Buyers funds diverted as Home Buyers Money to the Company.

Apart from the above companies, there were several companies which
were incorporated by employees, auditors of Amrapali group.
Shareholding as well as investment/assets of these companies shall be
attached 8. Companies created for building assets

The following companies were created by the Group for building assets
from homebuyer funds without contribution of any rupee by promoters
and their relatives. The shareholding is held by the group companies
and/or by shell companies and/or the trusted partners including
individuals. • Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd- Shareholders did not bring
capital of their own, but used funds of home buyers in other
entities/projects to pay for allotment of shares in UHCPL. Mr. Anil
Kumar Sharma was allotted shares at premium for an amount of
Rs.22,82,40,810 on 4th Nov 2010 and Rs.25,84,05,470 on 2nd March
2011 by adjusting receipts from Amrapali Infrastructure Ltd which 87 further received from Amrapali Sapphire Developers Pvt Ltd, which
received from homebuyers. Few instances are hereunder: 9. Misuse of funds by directors involved in scam
The directors and executives colluded with each other and diverted
homebuyers funds. Directors received huge amount of money in the
form of salary as well as professional fee, both together. A person could
have been either in whole time employment of the company or render
services as consultant. However, a person cannot enjoy salary income
and earn professional income at the same time and also both cannot be
earned at the same time from same company. But directors of Amrapali
group withdrew sums using all possible ways, be it salary, professional
fee, reimbursement of expenses, use of luxury cars or loans and
advances to self/relatives/self controlled entities/trusted partners or
booking of bills of self controlled entities/trusted partners.

Further professional fee was booked without any agreement or proof of
service. It had no correlation with the amount of work done by
the directors. Professional fee was booked as per wish and desire of
directors and did not have any fair basis. There were standing
instructions to transfer company funds to the individual directors bank
accounts when the balance was reaching to the specified set minimum
balance limit. The Professional fee paid to the directors, relatives of directors, and
senior managers was a unique way of diverting money. Huge amounts
were paid without any agreements at the whims and fancies of the 89 directors and managers. Moreover it was tax free and the tax liability
was discharged by another group company. The whole of professional
fee received by the directors (as stated hereunder) is recoverable from
them. (Volume –II, Page no 416-417). Professional fee was under disclosed to the tune of is Rs.33.4 crore
(Anil Kumar Sharma 8.75 cr + Shiv Priya 24.65 cr) in affidavits filed on
3rd Dec 2018 (Volume –II, Page no 414-415). The Difference was found
of from the affidavit file and the tax returns. It shall be noted that directors did not share company wise receipts in
the affidavit and also books of accounts of directors were not provided.

Directors along with their trusted partners and relatives cheated and
did criminal breach of trust with the home buyers. They transferred the
funds from the projects to the companies which were closely held by
the directors, their family members and/or by their trusted associates.
The objective was to create assets in the closely held companies and
leave the home buyers on the road. For example, Eklavya Building
Solutions Pvt Ltd acquired property in Goa amounting to is Rs.2 crore
through funds received from Amrapali group, 27 other companies
further invested Amrapali funds in Amrapali projects (For example
Many Flats in IT Park at Greater Noida); The directors spent homebuyers funds on wedding of daughter of
director, foreign travels, expensive watches, jewellery, purchasing
luxury cars for use by directors. The homebuyers funds were also used
for investment in mutual funds, creating personal properties , payment
of housing loans, investment in shares & securities. The directors
created discreet projects for personal income for example In the name of
Amrapali Hospitality a hotel at Deogarh was constructed out of funds
received from homebuyers without their knowledge of it. They used
homebuyers funds in the form of construction of assets for other
projects, examples constructed mall at Muzzafarpur, Bareilly etc, Hotel
at Deogarh, Bareilly, Hospital at Noida etc.

Few particulars of diversion of funds received from Amrapali group
are as under: Shiv Priya 1. Mr. Shiv Priya received funds from Amrapali group of Companies
which was used for acquiring personal properties, as stated hereunder: 2. Mrs. Sonali Suman (Wife of Shiv Priya) made investments in
different mutual funds amounting to Rs.8.86 crore out of amounts
received from Amrapali group of Companies. 3. Mr. Shiv Priya purchased following assets out of amounts received
from Amrapali group of companies: 4. Mr. Shiv Priya made following personal expenses of Rs.2.74 crore
out of amounts received from Amrapali group of companies: 5. Mr. Shiv Priya made payment of Rs.1.75 crore to following third
parties out of amounts received from Amrapali Group of companies: 6. Unexplained cash deposits of Rs.6 crore were received by Mr. Shiv
Priya in his bank accounts during December, 2016 i.e during
demonetization period. 7. Mrs. Sonali Suman (Wife of Shiv Priya) re-paid loan from bank
amounting to Rs.0.45 crore out of amount received from Amrapali
group of Companies. It is to be seen what the purpose was for which the
bank granted loan for 6 months for the said amount. 8. Shiv Priya is holding demat account no 1206420001934748 and
Sonali Suman is holding demat account no 1206420001936308 with
HDFC bank, of which details have not been provided to us. 9. Mrs Sonali Suman holds mutual funds with HDFC mutual funds
Folio no 11707520/73, which have market value amounting to Rs.0.65
crore as on 28th February 2019. 10. A sum of Rs.0.45 crore was paid by M/s Royal Golf Link City
Projects Private Limited to Mr. Shiv Priya during the financial Year
2016-17 which was not declared by him in the various Affidavits filed in
the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 11. There was an income tax search in the premises of Amrapali
Group of Companies and the residence of the directors in the month of
7th and 8th August, 2013. During this search operation unaccounted
cash was seized from the residence of directors namely Shri Shiv Priya
amounting to Rs 1 Crores. Unexplained jewellery was also seized from 95 the residence of Mr. Shiv Priya amounting to Rs 0.58 Crores. Thus, it
apparently shows that he has unaccounted cash. Ajay Kumar 1. Mr. Ajay Kumar received funds from Amrapali group of Companies
which was used for acquiring personal properties, as stated hereunder: 2. Mrs. Seema Kumari (Wife of Ajay Kumar) made investments in
different mutual funds amounting to Rs.2.25 crore out of amounts
received from Amrapali group of companies during August to
September, 2018. 3. Mr. Ajay Kumar made investments in Life insurance Policies of
Rs.2.59 crore out of amounts received from Amrapali group of
companies. 4. Mr. Ajay Kumar made payment of Rs.1.25 crore to following third
parties out of amounts received from Amrapali Group of Companies: 5. Mr. Ajay Kumar made investment of Rs.1.12 crore in Ultra Home
Construction as Share Capital out of amounts received from Amrapali
group of companies. 6. Mr. Ajay Kumar made payment of direct tax of Rs.0.11 crore out of
amounts received from Amrapali group of companies. 7. Mrs Seema Kumari holds mutual funds with HDFC mutual funds
Folio no 14756739/01, which have market value amounting to Rs.0.48
crore as on 28th February 2019. 8. Bank Statement of Anandi Singh of IndusInd Bank Account
no.150019032006

A sum of Rs.1.73 crore has been transferred from Seema Kumari on
09/08/2018. Further a sum Rs.2.25 crore has been invested in Mutual Funds as per
details given below: Note: This amount can be attached and recovered by encashment of
these investments. Sunil Kumar and Sunita Kumari (wife of Sunil Kumar) 1. While scrutinizing the Accounts of Gaurisuta Infrasolution Private
Limited in which Mr. Sunil Kumar was the Director, it was observed by
us that bogus commission of Rs.1.07 crore was booked. This amount
of Rs.1.07 crore should be recovered from Mr. Sunil Kumar. 2. A sum of Rs.0.50 crore has also been paid as Salary to Mrs.
Sunita Kumari in M/s Gaurisuta Infrasolution Private Limited which is
not genuine as per detailed report given in the case of M/s Gaurisuta
Infrasolution Private Limited. This Amount of Rs.0.50 crore should also
be recovered from Mrs. Sunita Kumari. Mr. Sudhir Kumar Choudhary
He is director in Amrapali Biotech India Private Limited & Gaurisuta
Infrasolution Private Limited. As per his statement recorded, he was
forced to become the director in first week of august 2018 with effect
from 06th July 2018. We are of the view that this planning has been done by the Amrapali
Management after the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to accept the
resignation of Mrs. Seema Kumari Wife of Sunil Kumar from the
Directorship and to appoint Mr. Sudhir Kumar Choudhary as the
director of the company. It was further explained by him that he was a mere employee only and
by virtue of threat by the Amrapali Group of Companies, he was forced
to become the Director of Amrapali Infrasolution Private Limited.

Apart from above specific points, it shall be noted that we had got
access to the email of the Accounts department of Amrapali Group of
Companies with Id [email protected] for a short period after
interrogation from an Ex-employee. We could download few instances of
Cash transactions which are enclosed as a sample in Annexure 26-B.
The access to this mail was stopped immediately. We requested the
management to give the access to this mail to enquire into the further
such mails related to the cash and other accounting adjustments
contained in this Email Account. But this access was not made
available to us. However, the access had been made available after the orders of the
Honorable Supreme Court dated 28th February, 2019. Now, all the
mails relating to receipt of cash from the various home buyers have
been deleted. Thus, the management of the company has tempered with
the evidence which were available earlier. (Page No. 205 Volume-I)

Further an amount of Rs.113.5 crore paid by Amrapali Infrastructure
Pvt Ltd to directors is recoverable as on 31st March 2018 and this
amount is on account of shares allotted of Ultra Home Construction
Private Limited to the directors without receiving any money from the
directors during the Financial Year 2010-11. This seems to be a
dubious transaction by the directors of the company in manipulating
the accounts in this manner by allotting the shares without actual
consideration. These amounts are not disclosed by the Directors in their
Affidavits. Hence, the Affidavits filed by the directors are incorrect to
this extent. 10. Executives who colluded with directors
The executives of the Group colluded with the management to avoid
proper recording of transactions in books of accounts. To avoid the
traceability of the transactions, the executives recorded the financial
transactions up to March 2015 in Accounting Package tally, then
shifted to FARVISION from April 2015 and continued till March 2016,
and thereafter partially recorded transaction in tally and a for a few
companied in FARVISION. At the time of switchover, even the opening
balances were not properly entered, thereby leading to a huge difference
in the data provided to us. In November 2016, the Group left Farvision
half way and started recording transactions for partial period in tally.

The executives intentionally recorded transactions by switchover of
accounting package improperly so that complete trail could not be
established. Subsequently, the companies of the group even stopped
getting the annual accounts prepared and filing returns to ROC and
Income tax

The Sales and Marketing head Mohit Gupta, CFO Chandar Wadhwa,
Accounts head Adhikari Das, Company Secretary Pankaj Mehta and the
Architect Vaibhav Jain along with their immediate coterie extended
helping hand to the management in planning and execution of the
scam. Mr. Mohit Gupta – Marketing Director
He was responsible for the whole marketing department, Customer
Relationship Management of the Amrapali Group and he did not
cooperate during the entire process of forensic audit.

It is pertinent to note that till now a list of flat wise possession has not
been provided to us. At first he did not submit us the customer data inspite of number of
reminders. Subsequently, the customer data submitted was not correct.
We found the following– (i) The inventory of vacant flat submitted by him was incorrect. (ii) We found 401 flats (Refer Annexure S-5 page 2828-2836
 Supplementary report) which were either lying vacant and
 were available in inventory because the flat buyers were
 shifted out of Amrapali Group to the other project of other
 builders. Mr. Mohit Gupta also did not disclose the details of
 flats booked in the name of various parties without receipt of
 any amount from them just by passing journal entry. (iii) From the above it is clear that it defies the order of Honorable
 Supreme Court and has violated the order and is responsible
 for the gross contempt of the Honorable Court. Mr. Adhikari Debi Prasad Dash- GM/DGM Accounts
It is found that Mr. Adhikari authorized (Refer Annexure S-6 page
2837-2841 Supplementary report) most of the payments regarding
payment of professional charges, raw materials, contractor dues and
other direct/indirect expenses. It is pertinent to note that he was also
involved in diversion of funds from Amrapali group and equally
responsible in the conspiracy of cheating with home buyers and 98 diversion of funds. He was responsible for the whole accounts department and he did not
cooperate during the entire process of forensic audit. He was authorized
to receive payments in cash and was submitting on day to day basis
cash receipt status to Mr. Shiv Priya. After a clearance from him, a
possession slip or no due certificate is issued.

He continuously replied that he is not aware of anything and for
everything there were Chartered Accountants for respective companies.
This is not a correct statement and he contradicted his own statement
many times. He was in possession of final accounts of group companies
and did not share with us. Adhikari Dash also did not disclose the details of flats booked in the
name of various parties without receipt of any amount from them just
by passing journal entry. From the above it is clear that it defies the order of Honorable Supreme
Court and has violated the order and is responsible for the gross
contempt of the Honorable Court. He along with his brother exercised direct control over below
companies: • The company has purchased this land for the project at Greater
 Noida in FY 2015-16 amounting to Rs.17.09 crore
 • Vinayaka Square received Rs 1 crore from Amrapali funds routed
 through Teks Tech Inspection India Private Limited and received
 Rs.2.56 crore from Shri Vinayaka Buildspace Private Limited.
 This is a project funded by Amrapali’s Funds and shall be attached.

Mr. Chander Wadhwa CFO Amrapali Group of Companies
It has also been observed that a sum of Rs.5 crores was transferred by
M/s Amrapali Homes Project Private Limited to Mr. Amit Wadhwa,
nephew of Mr. Chander Prakash Wadhwa. As per the affidavit filled by
Mr. Chander Prakash Wadhwa the said sum was invested by him in
M/s Three Platinum Softech Private Limited. The Heartbeat city projects
is partly owned by three Platinum and Amrapali group has invested in
the projects in the name of Chander Wadhwa. As per Statement of Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Director of La Residentia
Developers Private Limited recorded by us, he Informed that a sum of
Rs.4 crores Approximately, was paid as fees for use of Amrapali Brand
Name to Saffron Propmart Private Limited (This Company is controlled
by Mr. Chander Wadhwa CFO). No Bills have been provided by him.

Statutory Auditor CA Anil Mittal and Shri Chander Wadhwa CFO were
in connivance with each other and payments were made by Shri Anil
Mittal to Chander Wadhwa CFO for sharing fees received from Amrapali
group for the work awarded to Anil Mittal Chander Wadhwa is one of
the masterminds along with the other promoters directors behind the
whole scam. He facilitated movement of funds by creating a web of
companies within and outside the group. His relatives were made
partner investor in LA Residentia and Heart beat city projects. Funds
were invested in Patel Advance JV (Neo Town project Noida) and
Euphoria Sports City. Furthermore, it is observed that the Company Management as well as
Statutory Auditors and CFO have failed in their duty to follow the
Accounting Standards relating to recording the valuation of Work in
Progress as per ICAI guidelines applicable to Real Estate Companies. It
is also pointed out that the CFO has not signed any Audited Financial
Statements for reasons best known to them. But according to the
statement recorded by us of various employees and suppliers as well as
home buyers, we are informed that he was the main person handling
Finance and every meeting was held with him only. (page no 209
Volume 1)

Mr. Pankaj Mehta –Company Secretary
He was responsible for the secretarial compliances of the companies.
He incorporated more than 50 additional companies to create a cobweb.
He was a director in many of these companies and was an important
link in the transfer of funds through various group companies.

He was also signatory to the bank account of Stunning Construction
Private Limited. He resigned from the services of the Company in
December, 2016. However even after his resignation, on the
instructions of Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO, he continued to operate the
Bank Accounts of Stunning Construction Private Limited.

After his resignation in the Amrapali Group, he started working as a
partner of Saffron Consultants LLP with Mr. Chander Wadhwa. Also
Mr. Anil Kumar is still working as an employee with Mr. Chander
Wadhwa. On the instructions of Mr. Chander Wadhwa CFO manipulative entries
were recorded for adjustment of payment dues of Mr. Pankaj Mehta
against his Flat No. E-1502, Silicon City, Sector - 76, Noida. 11. Non compliance of statutory obligations (i) The group companies have not filed annual returns and Audited
Financial Statements after 31st March, 2015. The Registrar of
Companies has already disqualified the Directors namely Mr. Anil
Kumar Sharma, Mr. Amresh Kumar, Mr. Shiv Priya, Mr.Ajay Kumar 100 and Mr. Suvash Chandra Kumar for a period of 5 years from
1/11/2017 to 31/10/2022 u/s 164(2) of The Companies Act, 2013. (ii) The company has not been regular in payment of TDS and Service
tax and has also not filled relevant returns of TDS/Service tax after 31st
March, 2015. There is also no follow up available from the Concerned
departments. Latest information regarding status of default in respect of TDS/ Service
tax is not made available to us. There may be huge demands
outstanding against the company due to non-payment and non-filing of
TDS/Service tax returns. (iii) No Statutory records have been maintained by the Amrapali group
companies and produced before us relating to the following: It is highly surprising that in spite of such glaring discrepancies
regarding non-Compliance of statutory compliances, the Statutory
Auditors have not pointed out any such discrepancies in their Statutory
Audit Reports. There are many other glaring short comings in the Audited Balance
Sheet & Financial Statements a) I – Page 214) 12. Anil Mittal - Statutory Auditor
While scrutinizing the affidavit submitted by Shri Anil Mittal Date
12/11/2018 before the Hon’ble court we have noted the following: 13. Diversion of homebuyers funds
Amrapali Group was engaged in diversion of home buyer funds from
one project to another project, other group companies, directors and
senior executives of the group. There is also a diversion of funds to
various suppliers where advances were made without any further
adjustment/ transactions. There is not only diversion of funds, there is siphoning of funds also by
way of booking undervalued transactions in respect of sale of flats, by
way of booking of expenses, and making purchases from the bogus
suppliers/service providers. In addition to this they adopted fraudulent practices also by way of
double booking of flats. There are also instances of adjustment of
amounts payable to suppliers/brokers with the amount due from the
home buyers such trade creditors have denied having any knowledge of
such transactions. We have traces of receiving of Cash from the home buyers/ others as
shown by the email of the accounts department of the Amrapali Group
of Companies which is not accounted for in the books of accounts.

There is also allotment of shares without inward movement of funds by
making manipulative entries in the books of accounts.

The homebuyers funds were diverted Rs. 5,619.47 crore to other
companies/directors: Summary of diversion of funds is as under: 14. J P Morgan
 Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private Limited has financed this
 transaction by its own shares through Group Companies by
 incorporating new Companies. These transactions enable Amrapali
 Zodiac Developers Private Limited to avoid the provisions of The
 Companies Act, 1956 applicable for buying its own shares.

 It is also relevant to point out that Shri Anil Mittal at any stage of time
 has not reported his interest or disclosed about his relatives of Director
 and Junior Employee. Both the directors and shareholders of the
 company i.e Mr. Atul Mittal (Relative) and Mr. Chandan Kumar (Junior
 Employee), are relatives/employee of Anil Mittal, the Statutory Auditor
 of the company. a) Rudraksh Infracity Private Limited- Shri Chandan Kumar, an
 employee of CA Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor and Shri Atul Mittal,
 relative of CA Anil Mittal were inducted in the board. The basic purpose
 of this Company was only for money laundering and was incorporated
 to receive Funds from Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited which
 Company was incorporated by CFO Chander Wadhwa through his close
 associates. After receiving money from Mannat Buildcraft Private
 Limited, the same was transferred to J.P. Morgan Investments for
 purchase of Equity Shares of Amrapali Zodiac Private Limited at an
 exorbitant price. As per details furnished hereunder, the Valuation
 Report was also made to suit to the requirement of J.P. Morgan
 Investments as the M/s Sudit K. Parikh & Company, Chartered
 Accountants were appointed by J.P. Morgan officials for the said
 valuation. They have admitted that valuation work was done on the
 basis of information provided by J.P. Morgan Investments after applying
 some basic checks. The whole racket of money laundering and receiving money from these
 Companies i.e. Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited and Rudraksh
 Infracity Private Limited are the brain child of Mr. Chander Wadhwa,
 CFO and Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor of Amrapali Group of
 Companies. Both these Companies are controlled by both of these
 persons and had been formed only for this Money Laundering Business.
 There are no transactions before or after these transfers of money and 106 the same have been camouflaged to make it look with business
transactions on the basis of the Valuation Report.

JP Morgan invested Rs.85 crore in the year 2010 with an understanding
to have a preferential claim on profits called distributable surplus in the
ratio of 75% to JP Morgan and 25% to promoters namely Amrapali
Homes Project Private Limited and Ultra Home Construction Private
Limited with the following main condition in Shares Subscription
Agreement dated 9th September, 2010 amongst Ultra Home
Construction Private Limited, Amrapali Homes Project Private Limited,
JP Morgan & Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private Limited

The Company shall provide evidence of the aforesaid investment in
the Investee Company to the Investor. (Rs. 60 Cr. in Leisure Valley
Developers)
(A) There was a prescribed methodology and procedures defined of
computation of Fair Market Value at the time of the exit to be worked
out in the agreement on Page No 51, schedule 6 of Shareholder’s
Agreement, which was not followed at the time of any of the exits.

Clause 4.2 (iii) – The Company shall grant an interest free loan of Rs
85,000,000 (Rupees Eighty Five Million Only) to UHCPL.

Clause 4.2(iv) – The Company shall remit Rs 600,000,000 (Rupees
Six Hundred Million Only) to the Investee Company for subscribing
to 0.01% compulsorily convertible Preference shares of the
Investee Company (“Investee Company Shares”)

(B) Distribution of profit was agreed between the Investor i.e., JP
Morgan & the Investee i.e., Amrapali Group to share the profits from the
project in the agreed ratio as per clause 7.3 & Clause 7.5.1 Page No 19
of Shareholder’s Agreement. (C) Clause 7.1 - The Company agrees and undertakes that it shall,
and the Investor and Developers agree that they shall cause the
Company to first utilize the revenues (less the cost of construction
of the project, provision for future consideration cost of the
Project, payment of Project Land cost and interest thereon, annual
lease rent payment to New Okhla Industrial Development Authority
and one time land lease cost) towards payment of applicable taxes
and payment of interest to the lenders, if any, in accordance with the
provisions of Law. Clause 7.2 – Post the payment of taxes and interest to the lenders, as
aforesaid, the Company shall make payments of all principal amounts
accrued and payable to the lenders, if any, at applicable seniority.

(D) In clause 2.12 of Page No 12 of Shareholder’s agreement it was
agreed that the aggregate advances outstanding from the Amrapali
Zodiac developers Private Limited to its affiliates will not exceed Rs
25 crores excluding Amrapali Infrastructure Private Limited. It was
also in the knowledge of JP Morgan vide clause 2.14 of Page No 12 of
Shareholder’s Agreement that advances to Amrapali Infrastructure
Private Limited which was Rs 51 crore on 31st July, 2010 will be
restricted to Rs 15 crore. (E) Clause No 10.4.3 in page No 21 of Shareholder’s Agreement
mentions that no action can be taken without investor’s approval in
relation to 10.4.3(xi) any payments made to related parties.

(F) It was also mentioned in the agreement that statutory auditor
and internal auditor cannot be appointed and removed without the
approval of JPMorgan. (G) The following points indicate very clearly that JP Morgan was
having full control on Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private Limited
project and no material decision could have been taken without JP
Morgan approval. On Page No 60 of Shareholder’s Agreement in Note 1 it was agreed
& accepted that any surplus cash flow from the project will be first
utilized for payment of land cost to Noida Authority.

Documents to be submitted by Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private
Limited to JP Morgan: (H) Zodiac has followed recognition of revenue on the basis of
Project Completion Method – Accounting Standard - 7
(Construction Contracts). As per Project Completion Method as given
in Accounting Standard – 7, the profit cannot be recognized until the
project is completed and as per Clause No 7.3 of Shareholder’s
Agreement the distributable amount is the balance amount
representing the aggregate of all profits, after considering the payments
referred to in clause 7.1 and 7.2 , including any amounts transferred to
the reserves accounts of the Company shall for the purpose of this
clause 7 are referred to as the “Distributable Amount”.

(I) From the above it is clear that in absence of recognition of profit in
the agreement there cannot be any distributable amount for
distribution. (J) It was accepted by Mr Suraj Chhabria of JP Morgan (Apollo)
that the money invested by them in Amrapali Zodiac Developers
Private Limited was not utilized in the project. He also accepted
that it was in their knowledge that money invested by them was
not going to be utilized in Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private
Limited project and it is contracted that Rs 60 crores to Amrapali
Leisure Valley Developers Private Limited, Rs 8.5 crores to Ultra
Home Construction Private Limited be transferred.

(K) JP Morgan was in knowledge of that the Company Amrapali
Zodiac Developers Private Limited has paid the money received
from the Home buyers to tthe other Companies of Amrapali Group. 108 (L) JP Morgan permitted a transfer of Rs 140 crore to Mannat
Buildcraft Private Limited and from Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited
to Neelkanth Buildcraft Private Limited and Rudraksh Infracity Private
Limited for buying shares from JP Morgan of Amrapali Zodiac
Developers Private Limited. There were always advances exceeded
than the limits specified in Shareholder’s Agreement but JP
Morgan did not ensure bringing back the money from the affiliates
though it was having its board representation in the ratio3:2.

JP Morgan did not ensure that the funds for additional cost were
brought in and in valuation it was assumed that additional cost of Rs
125 crores will be brought in by the promoter for the last lag of the
construction for its IRR (Internal Rate of Return) working.

(M) JP Morgan was getting return at the rate of more than 20 %
on its investment of Rs 85 crore & was agreeing with Amrapali
Zodiac Developers Private Limited to invest in Amrapali Leisure
Valley Developers Private Limited a substantial part of its
investment i.e., 60 crore out of Rs 85 crore at the rate 0.01%. It
categorically demonstrates that JP Morgan invested Rs 60 crore in
Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers Private Limited without
complying FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act ) for its
investment of Rs 60 crore in Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers
Private Limited. It is not out of place to mention that Amrapali
Zodiac Developers Private Limited was a project where home
buyers were required to pay on the basis of progress of the
construction of the project. Meaning it was construction linked
payment project. (N) We found that most of the time customers have paid more
than what was spent in the project. The Amrapali Zodiac Developers
Private Limited diverted home buyer’s money & there was no need
of any investment from JP Morgan. It was accepted by Mr Suraj
Chhabria that there was no restriction on the Company to invest
the money in the project & it was in his knowledge & the
knowledge of JP Morgan that the money has been diverted,
Transferred

Valuation
(A) The valuation did not follow the correct methodology of DCF
(Discounted Cash Flow). The valuation is without any sanctity &
validity. The valuation was carried out to cause wrongful loss to the
homebuyers of Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private Limited and to give
advantage to JPMorgan. (B) Name of the firm – Sudit K. Parekh & Co. Chartered Accountants
 Name of the Partners–
 I. Mr. Durgaprasad Khatri
 II. Mr. Tanwir Shirolka
 III. Mr. Srikant V Jilla
 IV. Ms. Deepti K.Ahuja

Ms Ahuja, then partner in SKP&Co.Chartered Accountants informed 109 that JP Morgan, Mumbai office in Andheri/ Santacruise did not allow to
 take any of the details/ abstract from the share purchase agreement. It
 is to note that at the time of exit, it was predetermined that Zodiac
 Developers would not pay the lease rent as well as the installment due
 to Noida Authorities as clearly explained in the cash flow statement
 provided by the SKP&Co in 4 no. of valuation certificates from2010-
 2015. From the table above it is clear that valuation exercise was done
 backwardly. For instances first we paid Rs 100 crores, then Rs 25
 crores, then Rs 10 crores and finally Rs. 5Cr.. EXTRACT from FEMA RULES; FEM (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside India)
 Regulations, 2000
 “4. Restriction on an Indian entity to issue security to a person resident
 outside India or to record a transfer of security from or to such a person
 in its books. Save as otherwise provided in the Act or Rules or Regulations made
 thereunder, an Indian entity shall not issue any security to a person
 resident outside India or shall not record in its books any transfer of
 security from or to such person: Provided that the Reserve Bank may,
 on an application made to it and for sufficient reasons, permit an entity
 to issue any security to a person resident outside India or to record in
 its books transfer of security from or to such person, subject to such
 conditions as may be considered necessary. Transfer of shares or convertible debentures or warrants of an Indian
 company or units of an Investment Vehicle] by a person resident 110 outside India

(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2), a person resident
outside India holding the 2[shares or convertible debentures or
warrants of an Indian company or units of an Investment Vehicle] in
accordance with these Regulations, may transfer the 3[shares or
convertible debentures or warrants of an Indian company or units of an
Investment Vehicle] so held by him, in compliance with the conditions
specified in the relevant Schedule of these regulations.

Further, subject to minimum lock-in period of one year or minimum
lock-in period as prescribed under Annex-B of Schedule 1 whichever is
higher, a person resident outside India holding the shares or convertible
debentures or warrants] of an Indian company containing an optionality
clause in accordance with these Regulations and exercising the
option/right, may exit without any assured return, subject to the
following conditions: No substantial fundswere used in the construction of the project. The
address of the Company who purchased share from JP Morgan is the
address of Group Statutory Auditor Mr. Anil Mittal.
(A) Mr Chandan Kumar, director in Neelkanth Buildcraft Private
Limited & Rudraksh Infracity Private Limited is an office boy in the
office of Statutory Auditor Mr Anil Mittal. (B) Mr Vivek Mittal, another director in Neelkanth Buildcraft Private
Limited is nephew of Statutory Auditor Mr Anil Mittal & does small
timejobs

Facts
Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt Ltd incorporated on 18th December
2009. As per the Share Subscription Agreement dated 9th September,
2010, JP Morgan invested 85 crore on 20th October 2010 with an
understanding to have a preferential claim on profits called
distributable surplus in the ratio of 75% to JP Morgan and 25% to
promoters namely Amrapali Homes Project Private Limited and Ultra
Home Construction Private Limited. The said investment was
repatriated to JP Morgan as under: Extracts of Master Circular no.8/2010-11 dated July 01, 2010 on
External Commercial Borrowings and Trade Credits

External Commercial Borrowings (‘ECBs’) refer to commercial loans in
the form of bank loans, buyers credit, suppliers credit, securitized
instruments (eg floating rate notes and fixed rate bonds, non
convertible, optionally convertible or partially convertible preference
shares) availed of from non-resident lenders with a minimum average
maturity of 3 years. ECB can be accessed under 2 routes a) Automatic route and b) Approval route. A) Under Automatic route 112 • Eligible borrowers can be corporates, including those in the
 hotel, hospital, software sectors (registered under the Companies Act 1956) and Infrastructure Finance companies,
 Housing Finance companies and Non Banking Finance
 Companies. • Recognised lenders can be international banks, suppliers of
 equipments, foreign collaborators and foreign equity holders
 • All in cost ceilings for ECBs under automatic route are: ECBs are not permitted to be utilized for real estate. However, the
term real estate excludes development of integrated township as
defined by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, DIPP, SIA (FC
Division), Press Note 3 (2002 Series) dated January 4, 2002. As per the
said press note, development of integrated township includes housing,
commercial premises, hotels, resorts, city and regional level urban
infrastructure facilities such as roads and bridges, mass rapid transit
systems and manufacture of building materials. Development of land
and providing allied infrastructure will form an integrated part of
township’s development. Hedging required: Borrowers are required to report monthly about actual ECB
transactions through form ECB-2 to AD Category I bank within 7 days
from close of the month. Companies Act 1956
Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt Ltd could not have bought back its own
shares from JP Morgan as a company cannot buy back its own shares
as per the provisions of section 77 of the Companies Act 1956. Section 77 states “(1) No company limited by shares, and no company 113 limited by guarantee and having a share capital, shall have power to buy
its own shares, unless the consequent reduction of capital is effected and
sanctioned in pursuance of sections 100 to 104 or of section 402 .”

Even otherwise, as per Section 77A , a company can purchase its own
shares from (i) free reserves; Where a company purchases its own shares out of
free reserves, then a sum equal to the nominal value of the share so
purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve and
details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the balance-sheet or (ii) securities premium account; or (iii) proceeds of any shares or other specified securities. A Company
cannot buyback its shares or other specified securities out of the
proceeds of an earlier issue of the same kind of shares or specified
securities. Conditions of Buy Back (a) The buy-back is authorised by the Articles of association of the
 Company; (b) A special resolution has been passed in the general meeting of the
 company authorising the buy-back. In the case of a listed company,
 this approval is required by means of a postal ballot. Also, the
 shares for buy back should be free from lock in period/non
 transferability. The buy back can be made by a Board resolution If
 the quantity of buyback is or less than ten percent of the paid up
 capital and free reserves; (c) The buy-back is of less than twenty-five per cent of the total paid-
 up capital and free reserves of the company and that the buy-back
 of equity shares in any financial year shall not exceed twenty-five
 per cent of its total paid-up equity capital in that financial year; (d) The ratio of the debt owed by the company is not more than twice
 the capital and its free reserves after such buy-back; (e) There has been no default in any of the following

 i. in repayment of deposit or interest payable thereon,
 ii. redemption of debentures, or preference shares or
 iii. payment of dividend, if declared, to all shareholders within the
 stipulated time of 30 days from the date of declaration of dividend
 or
 iv. repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to any
 financial institution or bank; (f) There has been no default in complying with the provisions of
filing of Annual Return, Payment of Dividend, and form and contents of
Annual Accounts; (g) All the shares or other specified securities for buy-back are fully
paid-up; (h) The buy-back of the shares or other specified securities listed on
any recognised stock exchange shall be in accordance with the
regulations made by the Securities and Exchange Board of India in this
behalf; and (i) The buy-back in respect of shares or other specified securities of
private and closely held companies is in accordance with the guidelines
as may be prescribed. Misrepresentation of facts by investing the funds in the form of
private equity in the project namely Zodiac and then diverting it
from there to promoters and the promoters associated companies

As ECBs were not permitted in real estate sector under automatic route,
JP Morgan gave the said borrowings, the nomenclature of equity shares
having different return on investment as compared to other equity
shareholders. In fact JP Morgan remitted Rs.60 crore to Amrapali
Leisure Valley Developers Pvt Ltd as ECB without obtaining approval
from competent authority. Immediately on receipt of funds by Amrapali
Leisure Valley Developers Pvt Ltd, the funds were transferred to
promoters and associate companies of the group.

Had JP Morgan invested in the form of ECB, following would have been
the compliances to be fulfilled by recipient: Relevant questions from FAQ issued by RBI with regard to the Foreign
Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person
Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 dated November 7, 2017 as
amended from time to time: Net surplus/deficit

 Total Estimated Cost to Net
 Refund/
 S.No Name of company Receivable Cost still to Complete Surplus/
 Shifitng
 from Buyers be incurred by NBCC (Deficit)

 Amrapali Princely 38 - - 1 Estate Pvt.Ltd. (6)

 12 - - 2 Developers Pvt.Ltd. 7 70 - - 3 Developers Pvt.Ltd. 10 The unsold Inventory in the various schemes where forensic audit was
 carried out is to the tune of Rs 1,958.82crores spread-over in
 5,229Flats. *Unsold inventory of Amrapali Centurian Park Private Limited
 comprises of three projects namely- Amrapali Tropical Garden,
 Amrapali Terrace Homes, O2 Valley. We have not been provided the inventory details of O2 Valley, the data
 mentioned here and included in calculation of surplus/deficit is agreed
 in discussion with CMD, Amrapali Group. Unsold units of O2 Valley is 223. The unsold Inventory in respect of the commercial shop space amounts
 to Rs.162 crores spread-over in 5schemes. *487 units are available in commercial project Tech Park which are yet
 to be examine. The detailed list of inventory is attached in ANNEXURE
 XXII.2. 15. Sale of Flats at lower prices (Under-Valued Transactions)
 While scrutinizing the record for sale of flats, we have observed that
 number of the flats were sold at low prices as compared to the prices
 existing on or near to those dates and on which rates sales were made
 to other home buyers. It is further submitted that some of the flats have
 been sold even at rates as low as RS. 1,000 - RS. 1,400 per square feet
 which is even lower than the cost of construction. No satisfactory
 explanation has been given to us for the same. Possibility of taking cash
 outside the books of accounts cannot be ruled out. Total Amount
 involved in under-valued transaction is enclosed Annexure 26-A
 (Volume III Page no 584-586 ) & at Annexure S-7 (Supplementary
 Report page no 2842-2893). The amount shown below is the minimum
 and it may be in the range of 1,000 crore. Since the sample size is 5856
 against the total number of more than 42,000 flats. Note: *These calculations are based upon the rates, where the sale
consideration of the flat is less by more than 25% of the average sale
price of the project. # These calculations are based upon the rate of Rs.2000/- per sq. ft.
and where flats were sold lesser than the rate of Rs.2000/- per sq. ft. 16. Group investment in other projects
The group started demerging and delinking the good projects from the 118 brand name “Amrapali” though these projects were initially launched as
Amrapali projects. The said projects identified till the date of writing of
the report are La Residentia, Vinayaka square, Heartbeat City, O2
Habitat. La Residentia
A big project having more than 3,200 dwelling units was launched in
2010-11 having an equity shareholding of 19.75% in the name of
Stunning Construction Pvt Ltd. • Stunning Construction Private Limited (‘Stunning’), an Amrapali
group company, holds 19.75% shares in the company. Stunning has
been a consortium partner since beginning and land was allotted by
Noida Authorities to the 5 members consortium including Stunning.
The project was launched as an Amrapali group project and was
marketed accordingly. As per the discussion with directors of La
Residentia Developers Private Limited, they broke up with Amrapali
group in 2017. 2017 is the year when writ petition was filed before the
Honorable Supreme Court. It is informed to us that a marketing
agreement was entered into between La Residentia Developers Private
Limited and Amrapali group (name of the company not known) that
Amrapali group would market its project for a consideration of Rs.16
crore. It was informed by Mr. Sanjeev Kumar (director of La Residentia
Developers Private Limited and a very old friend of Mr. Shiv Priya,
director, Amrapali group) that though the agreement was signed but
Amrapali group didn’t provide a copy of the agreement. It proves that
Amrapali director were having significant influence on La Residentia
Developers Private Limited that they had an authority even not to give a
copy of the agreement to a person/entity who has signed it.

• Out of Rs.16 crore, which were to be paid to Amrapali group as per
the agreement, Rs 4 crore were paid to Saffron Propmart Consultancy
Private Limited Owned and controlled by CFO Chander Wadhwa) under
a verbal instruction of Mr. Adikhari, GM/DG accounts of Amrapali
group. It is to be noted that directors of La Residentia Developers
Private Limited were acting and working under the supervision of Mr.
Adhikari who was a middle level management officer. It indicates that
the project was conceived by Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma & Mr. Shiv Priya
directors of Amrapali group and Mr. Sanjeev Kumar, Mr. Mukesh
Kumar Roy and others were only a front. • it is very clear that there was no contribution of funds from the
consortium partners whatever funds contributed by the consortium
partners were not only withdrawn within a very short period but over
and above that extra funds were given to them in the name of interest
free loans and advances. • Amrapali group companies have transferred some of their buyers
to the company. We found that the list of unsold inventory was sent to
Mr. Anil Sharma and it was he who decided that the following buyers
from Amrapali group companies be shifted to La Residentia this proves
that La Residentia was under the direct control of Mr. Anil Sharma and
Mr. Shiv Priya and is an entity of Amrapali group. 119 • The company is also using the Brand name/trademark of
Amrapali group on its letterheads. • The website of the company is following www.amrapali-
laresidentia.com. • When we open the website of the company, advertisement page
was hiding details and it is a project of Amrapali group. 17. Summary of amounts recoverable standing as debit balances
in books of accounts
Amrapali group of companies had several amounts lying in debit
balances in the form of advances recoverable on account of long term
loans to third parties, short term loans given to third parties, advances
given for purchase of plots, advances given to creditors for
materials/others etc.

Amrapali group of companies were mostly diverting loan funds as well
as home buyers funds to directors, key managerial personnel, relatives,
group companies and third parties. They did construction activity only
in part and created a circle for movements of funds vide bogus expenses
or hollow transactions. Funds were given to several parties in the garb
of advances against purchase of land or for purchasing material for
construction and booked as sundry creditors with debit balances.
However, in effect such amounts were neither returned nor any expense
was booked against them. Such amounts are as old as 2006-07, which
have not been returned or no expense has been booked till date. Total of
such recoverable amounts to Rs.582 crore. Top 20 of such parties with their balances are stated hereunder: It can be seen from records that the recoverable are due since long and
there are mostly no movements subsequently either in the form of
booking of expenses or receipts. Out of the amounts recoverable from
parties in case of Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd, 20 parties having
huge balances recoverable were called for personal interviews. 7 parties
appeared and no satisfactory explanation was provided
(Refer Annexure X.1, Volume IV page no 1015-1019) 18. Assets created out of diverted funds

Refer Page no 550 to 557 of Volume II 19. Cars

The Company has bought many luxury cars and other cars out of the
funds of the homebuyers. Many of the cars were transferred in the name of the relatives /
employees without passing any entries in the books of accounts and
receiving any money from the transferees. Moreover, the cars were transferred in the name of the persons who was
not associated with the company which originally bought the cars. We
have already reported the matter in the court hearings and the
honourable court has ordered for the sale of the said luxury cars.

Out of the above 15 cars only 9 were made available for physical
verification. 20. HOMEBUYERS

The group constructed and booked/sold residential and commercial
units: During this procedure, we were informed that the data related to
customers was maintained in the software FAR VISION as well as
manually of some of the projects. The Data in such fashion is
intentionally maintained to avoid findings in future the gaps. 121 1) It is found that the promoters/directors/senior management of the
 company were treating the inventory of the projects as personal asset
 and started allotting the unsold inventory to various persons/entities by
 passing an accounting entry in the Accounting software tally. 2) We found that 14 flats were booked in the name of Mr. Rajesh Viz
 in the project Amrapali Centurion Park, Terrace Homes. The customer
 data in FAR Vision provided, shows only Rs 10,000/- received for each
 flat from him as a booking amount. We did not find his name in the
 tally data of books of accounts of Amrapali Centurion Park Pvt. Ltd. We
 sent Emails to him to confirm the same but did not get any satisfactory
 response from him. He did not come and avoided meeting us for last 5
 months. 3) We found differences in amount shown as per the records i.e.
 amount received as per Customer data base sheet extracted from
 software FAR VISION and the amount actually paid by the customer.
 We came to know about the differences in receivable after sending e
 mails/ speaking over the phone to the customers. A list of such
 differences is given on sample basis (Page No. 483) 4) We found the following 2 customers who had been handed over the
 possession but still appearing in the Customer database as undelivered.
 Both have paid less than 50% as per company records. 5) For amount received there is a mismatch in the tally records/ FV
 accounts and customer data in software Far Vision. Amount received
 from a customer with flat no. though shown in customer database but
 didn’t account for in the tally. List on sample basis is given (Page No. 486) 6) We found a mismatch that the name of customer is different in
 accounting package (tally& ERP FAR Vision) and customer data record
 in FAR VISION. We were not explained satisfactorily the reason for the
 same. (Page No. 489) 7) We found a no. of customers/buyers whose know your customer
 (KYC) is not available (N/A).For example PAN, e-mail, phone and
 address (Page No. 490) 8) The supplier of material and provider of services were
 unsecured creditors for the amount claimed by them. There are a
 number of flats booked against the amount claimed as due. All this
 was done in 2015-17. There are flats allotted to parties (unsecured
 creditors) in different projects irrespective of whether any service
 was provided/ material supplied to the same project or not.

 We propose the following order for allotment of flats to the persons/
 entity who have booked the flats subject to the verification of their
 claim: However, subsequently, it came to the knowledge that flats mentioned
 in the buyer agreement never existed as 25th floor did not exist in the
 approved building plan. Further, as per details provided by Mr. Kaif, as
 on 31st March 2017, an amount of INR 1,40,00,000 was payable to him,
 however, as per books of accounts (in tally data), an amount of INR
 1,70,00,000 was payable to him by UHCPL. Hi Tech City Developers Pvt Ltd has huge amount of Trade Receivables
 of INR 1.64 crores

 Whereas , the project under this Company i.e. Amrapali Empire has
 been completed. Most of the flats have been handed over and registry
 has been done. We fail to understand as to why the aforesaid amount is
 still appearing as recoverable from various home buyers.

 This implies it was received in cash and not accounted for. The
 complete list of all such flat owners along with their sale amount and
 amount received is enclosed below: It is worth mentioning here that of the above 33 home buyers most of
 them are employees/ ex-employees of the Company. The management
 has done under-valued registry for all these cases. We are of the view
 that the management has under-valued these registries to evade the
 stamp duty to be paid to the government and has taken the money
 outside the books from these employees and these amounts
 outstanding in the books are only book entries and should be recovered
 from the management. 21. Misrepresentation of Facts
 As per the information provided and the records made available to us,
 Flat No C-704 in Amrapali Castle and Flat No D-702 in Amrapali Eden
 Park were shown as vacant flats and were provided to NBCC for the
 purpose of sale. However, we have received letters from Mr Manoj
 Kumar and Mr Maneesh Gaur in Amrapali Castle and Amrapali Eden
 Park respectively along with many Annexures. (Payment receipts, NOC,
 possession letter).that the flats have been booked by them 9) While scrutinizing the customer data, we found a case where the
 flat is sold at discount. The total value of the flat is booked as a
 discount. There may be many more such cases. We are informed that Mr.Adhikari Debi Prasad Das (GM/DGM
 Accounts) and Mr. Mohit Gupta (Director Marketing) were directly
 responsible for accounting and collection of receivables and marketing
 of flats. We interviewed both the persons several times. Both kept on changing
 their stand/answers and did not cooperate in answering our queries.
 Their answer to every question was that they are not aware. They did
 not provide many documents and the laptops which are in their
 possession. In spite of repeated reminders, Mr. Mohit Gupta has not
 made available the complete data with respect to home buyers/flat
 owners. We found Mr Mohit Gupta and Mr Adhikari Devi Prasad Das directly
 responsible for all the wrongdoings in booking of receivables, marketing
 of the flats and in handing over the possession of the flats.

 Utilities like Milk booth, Nursery schools, Senior secondary
 schools, Nursing homes allotted to various parties should be
 cancelled. LIST OF FLATS (Residential & Commercial) ALLOTED TO BROKERS
 AND SUPPLIERS

 833 Flats booked (identified till now) in the name of various vendors
 should be attached and be released at last till the last home buyers gets
 his/her flat.If there is a shortfall , then the flats should be treated as
 inventory and be sold . The following flats should be cancelled. These are the 353 flats booked in the name of various vendors parties
 without receipt of any sum. The flats has not been included in inventory
 and will be available for sale after giving a chance to the Flat buyer if
 he/she/it introduce any documents to substantiate the claim. Refer list
 below: Initially Amrapali Group ventured like these types of association as he 126 was independently not able to meet the net worth, turnover and other
eligibility criteria for land allotment by Noida authorities. They then
next associated in Sapphire Project wherein Sureka’s family
participated as shareholders and directors in the Company. Every Joint
Venture used to have an unexecuted profit sharing and investment
arrangement. Since the company didn’t declared dividend ever, the
profits were drawn by Sureka family in the nature of advances which
has majorly been squared off against billing from Mauria Udyog
Limited, Jotindra Steel and their other related companies. Some of the
amount is still lying as advance in the books of accounts of Amrapali
Group. In 2012 Amrapali Group invested in 25% stake in Sureka
family’s three projects Heart Beat City, Pebbles Prolease, Three
Platinum Softech. Apart from subscribing to share capital, the further
investment was made directly as advance or billing from Amrapali
Group to these companies and some through shell companies as well.

Further they did a project in Ultra Home Construction Private Limited
with Mozambique. This project was planned, coordinated and managed
by Mr Navneet Sureka in the name of Ultra Home Construction Private
Limited and whatever advance was sanctioned and disbursed by the
Government of Mozambique through EXIM bank to Ultra Home
Construction Private Limited was eventually diverted to Sureka family
through billing from Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited, Mauria Udyog
Limited, etc. A separate bank account of Ultra Home Construction
Private Limited was opened in State Bank of Patiala, Faridabad branch
where signatory was Mr Akhil Sureka who used to operate the account
from there. The entire transactions of LC and EXIM bank was routed
from that account. Navneet Sureka visited more in the period of
contract finalization to Mozambique

Partner in the following projects: A sum of INR 53.21 Lakhs has been debited to Labour Charges
 Contractors on account of bill no. SBPL/Noida/010 dated 13/3/2013
 has been recorded in the books of Amrapali Infrastructure Private
 Limited on 16/03/2015. RN Traders
 During the financial year 2016-17 and 2017-18, a sum of INR 17.63
 crores has been debited to this party and standing recoverable as per
 Raw Tally Data, till date as per details given below: Further, there is no Name, Pan or Address available in the records of
 M/s RN Traders. It was further observed that there are no business
 transactions with M/s RN Traders. It is possible that this amount of
 INR 2,714.02 Lakhs has been withdrawn by the management for their
 own personal use and should be recovered from the management.

 BiharijiIspat Udyog Limited being one of the partners of Amrapali Grand
 always had negative capital. They withdrew much more than what they
 brought into the business. There is no substance in them being called
 as capital contributors to the business of Amrapali Grand. As on 1st
 April 2008 they had withdrawn INR 12 crore and invested a capital 129 contribution of INR 1.5 crore. As on 31st July 2018, they have debit
 balance of INR 1.67 crore and negative capital of INR 30,380. They
 always withdrew homebuyers funds for misusing for their own agendas
 apart from the business. Out of INR 12 crore given to BihariJiIspat Udyog Limited, they returned
 INR 6.45 crore through bank and the balance amount was adjusted
 against receivables from Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd and against
 capital contribution by BiharijiIspat Udyog Ltd.

 Amrapali Grand gave loans and advances to below parties, which are
 recoverable as on 31st July 2018 amounting to INR 25.73 crore as per
 Tally data. S. No. Name of the Amount Date of transaction
 Company/Person

 1 Anil Kumar Sharma 10,03,55,900 20.11.2007 to
 25.07.2018
 2 Shiv Priya 7,10,50,000 20.04.2007 to
 22.09.2010
 3 Madan Mohan Sharma 2,01,00,000 20.11.2007 to
 5.12.2007
 4 Ajay Kumar 2,74,68,000 23.06.2007 to
 31.03.2011
 5 BiharijiIspat Udyog Limited 1,67,00,000 5.04.2006 to
 31.07.2018
 6 Amrapali Homes 54,01,519 15.09.2006 to
 07.12.2013
 7 SuvashChander Kumar 47,11,000 3.01.2008 to
 01.12.2009
 8 Shiv Priya –Imprest 35,70,480 1.04.2008 to
 24.12.2009
 9 Amrapali Zodiac Developers 19,20,000 27.06.2017 to
 Private Limited 13.07.2017
 10 Jhamb Finance and 19,00,000 5.11.2015
 Leasing Private Limited
 11 Amresh Kumar 16,86,000 1.04.2007 to
 15.09.2008
 12 GK International 10,00,000 21.01.2007
 13 Pallavi Mishra 6,07,080 12.07.2018
 14 Mohit Gupta 5,80,000 25.06.2007 to
 11.04.2008
 15 P K Choubey 1,50,000 2.08.2007
 16 Amrapali Foundation 1,00,000 24.11.2015
 17 Suraj pur Sales & Service 1,00,000 1.11.2010
 Total 25,73,99,979

 It has been observed that amounts paid to parties above were mostly
 routed to Quality Synthetics Pvt Ltd which primarily belongs Sureka
 family. For example: While reviewing the books of accounts of Amrapali Infrastructure
 Private Limited and M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited, it has been
 observed that Amrapali Infrastructure has made purchases from M/s
 Jotindra Steel against Letter of Credit. The letter of credit has been
 discounted by M/s Jotindra Steel with the banks. The discounting
 charges of INR 1.30 Crores have been debited by M/s Jotindra Steel to
 M/s Amrapali Infrastructure. We fail to understand the reason for this
 treatment. In normal course of business, the supplier is the person who
 bears the discounting charges in respect of the transactions as the
 margin when sold on Letter of Credit are generally higher. This amount
 of INR 1.30 Crores on account of discounting charges of Letter of
 Credit Should be recovered from M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited.
 i. It has also been observed that M/s Jotindra Steel and Tubes
 Limited has issued service invoices for erection, shifting and
 transportation charges amounting to INR 96 lakhs approximately
 during the financial year 2014-15 as per details given below: Further, on scrutiny of the invoices issued by the JSTB it appears that
 the invoices raised for the above services are completely different from
 the invoices issued regularly and are prima facie non-genuine. Hence,
 the same should be recovered from JSTB or the Company Management
 as both the parties have been partnering in various projects.

 ii. It is further observed that purchases amounting to INR 7.09 Crores,
 INR 59.53 Crores and INR 47.04 Crores has been made from this
 party in M/s Amrapali Infrastructure Private Limited during the
 financial year 2013-14, 2014-15 and 2015-16 respectively. While
 sample checking of the purchase bills, it was noted that the goods
 consignment notes enclosed with the purchase bill are issued by
 M/s Synergy Freightways Private Limited which is also a group
 Company of Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited. Goods consignment
 note enclosed with the purchase bills don’t seem to be genuine in
 view of the undermentioned observations: This clearly establishes that all the GRs issued by M/s Synergy
 Freightways Private Limited are not genuine. Further, most of the
 purchase invoices of JST have been shown as sale on the same date
 with similar particulars/ quantity by raising the invoice on Amrapali
 Infrastructure Private Limited. We are of the view that these sales invoices raised by JST are also not
 genuine and are mere accommodation entries only.

 Sample details of such transactions for 2 days are enclosed below: When we questioned Mr. Navneet Sureka who approached Amrapali
group from trust side and who was approached in Amrapali group. He
answered “he is not able to recollect”. He didn’t cooperate otherwise how it is possible that such a huge
amount donated by Amrapali group companies and he is not able to
remember the basic question. We recommend the amount donated
should be recovered from the Sureka group. We are of the opinion that the supplies and services provided by
Jotindra Steel & Tubes Limited (Rs 321 crore) and Mauria Udyog
Limited (Rs 128 crore) are prima facie bogus in nature. 1. The 2 directors namely Mr. Akhil Sureka and Mr. Navneet Sureka are
equally responsible for companies having
shareholding/capital/profitsharing and should be held responsible for
shortfall in cost of construction and land dues to Noida authorities.
(Refer annexure S-11 page 2960 Supplementary report) 2. Mr. Akhil Sureka opened bank account in SBI, Patiala, Faridabad in
the name of Amrapali group companies and became a signatory.
Amrapali did not have any base at Faridabad but Akhil sureka operates
from Faridabad. 3. Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited agreed to buy used construction
equipments from Amrapali Infrastructure Private Limited and paid Rs 8
crore on 13th December, 2016 and immediately transferred that funds
to group companies of Sureka group namely Jotindra Steel and Tubes
Limited and others by routing the funds from Amrapali Infrastructure
Private Limited to Ultra Home Construction Private Limited. 4. The FSI’s bought by Sureka group (details given in Chart D) without
making any payment. The modus operandi was funds were paid from
one company and on the same day were transferred to other Sureka
group company by routing in 2-3 Amrapali Group companies. This
would not have been possible without active involvement of Mr. Akhil
Sureka, who is bank signatory. We found on sample basis that the
amount of Rs. 80 crore so routed was originally started from Amrapali.
The amount so claimed of Rs 80 crore has been routed through various
companies. this amount has been paid out of Amrapali group against
purchases and payment made to various vendors namely Bhagirathi
Tubes (Prop Mr. SHiv Kumar)etc. It was confirmed by supplier that he
did not have any knowledge of any of the transactions and stated that
all transactions were carried out in good faith under the advice &
instruction of Mr. Akhil Sureka. He further submitted that he never
visited any of the Amrapali group office, he or his staff including
employees has never visited any of the offices or site of Amrapali group.
When questioned on supplies of scaffolding material and steel to and
purchase sales reconciliation of supplies along with purchase orders
and sales orders, he confirmed that it is not available. The amount so
paid should be recovered from the SUREKA group companies. It was
further confirmed that funds movement were also on behalf of Akhil
Sureka carried out under good faith. 5. An amount of Rs 55 crore was received from EXIM bank under line of 134 credit for a project was to be done in Mozambique. The group submitted
a bogus bank guarantee for the said advance to Mozambique client
from a bank namely International Trade Bank Limited. Out of the
funds of RS 55crore, major amount was transferred to Companies of
Sureka group. On enquiry from the Amrapali Group we came to know that the bank
guarantee was made available by Mr. Navneet Sureka, Managing
Director of Mauria Udyog Limited and that no bank exist/existed by
the name International Trade Bank Limited. It was also informed
that the project was under direct control and supervision of Mr. Navneet
Sureka. It shows active involvement of Mr. Navneet Sureka in the
project. Mr. Prashant Kumar and Mr. Ram Kumar are the persons who
were travelling to Mozambique and know about the project but we could
not get the contact details of these 2 persons 6. Quality Synthetics (Sureka Group) had given a loan to Amrapali
Sapphire of RS 3 crore in March, 2009 at the rate of interest of 14% p.a.
The company kept on paying to Quality Synthetics when it was having
no funds for construction. The Amrapali Group was giving advances to
various vendors/parties interest free and taking loan from Quality
Synthetics, at the rate of 14% p.a. It is pertinent to note that the
said amount of RS 3 crore along with all interest due totaling to RS
3,86 crore was repaid in March, 2018 when there were no funds
available for construction of flat and the case was pending before
Honorable Supreme Court. The amount should be recovered
immediately. It is pertinent to note that the company is not doing any
business and are used just for the purpose of money laundering. 7. Sureka group was a promoter and was providing the net worth
certificate at the time of allotment of land to Noida/ Greater Noida
authorities. At the time of making payment to the authorities for
land funds were arranged by them. 8. The directors other than the family have come and informed that they
were not knowing about the operations of the company and not
attended any board meeting and papers were send to their residence for
signatures. 9. There are many other high value transactions which we are in
process of examination. 10. Further to our supplementary report dated 30th April 2019. The
directors of four companies of Sureka Group appeared before us from
9th May 2019 to 18th May 2019, the directors gave their statement On
the basis of interaction in the statement given by them. We found as
follows. The four companies which bought FSI for the sham companies created
for the purpose of money laundering. Neither the shareholders nor the
directors of the companies were aware of any transactions carried out
by these companies. It is worthwhile to note that Mr. Vishnu Sureka,
Mr. Navneet Sureka and Mr. Akhil Sureka were neither the
shareholders nor the directors as well didn’t attend any board meeting
including AGM/EGM. However, out of three who were signatory to the
bank in all the companies. Directors were not aware of who have been
the signatories. When questioned . Vishnu, navneet and akhil Sureka 135 could not reply why they were the signatories when they were neither
shareholders, directors, employees. Mauria Udyog Limited
It was submitted in affidavit of Mauria Udyog Limited that Mauria
Udyog Limited is a manufacturer and traders. It is stated that in
addition, to manufacturing of LPG Cylinders, MUL also manufactures
world class “Terry Towel” and “Apparels”. Further MUL also trades
internationally & domestically in Steel Products in addition to Ferrous &
Non Ferrous metals. MUL also deals in agro commodities such as soya
bean, refined oil & deoiled cake used as fodder for the cattle feed/poultry
industry.(from affidavit of MUL para 5 page 2) We scrutinized the
annual accounts of Mauria Udyog Limited and found that the
product that is TMT bars are supplied only to Amrapali Group
companies and a very minuscule quantity to other companies.

In the 2010-11, TMT bar supplied for Rs. 52.97 crore and the payment
received Rs 29 crore and that is also a major part of the payment of Rs
16.5 crore was received in March. Similarly, in the year 2012-13, supplies were made of TMT bar and the
payment was received in the month of March 2012 just before closing of
the year. Suddenly in the year 2012-13, trend is changed and Ultra Home
Construction Pvt Ltd gave an advance of Rs 33 crore on various dates
which was returned subsequently in the month of February and March.

The above transactions are dubious in nature because we scrutinized
the supply bills of Mauria Udyog Limited and found that Mauria Udyog
Limited has supplied TMT bars only to Amrapali group of companies. It
is not an item in which Mauria Udyog Limited has dealt with any other
party except a miniscule quantity of 2-3 customers who in turn has also
supplied to Amrapali group. There was no purchase order from
Amrapali group to Mauria Udyog Limited even the size of TMT bar
was not mentioned on the invoice of Mauria Udyog Limited. The
rate charged by Mauria Udyog Limited are higher in the range of
15-20% then the market rate for which no satisfactory explanation
was provided to us. In year 2013-14, Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd
gave Rs 2.45 crore to Mauria Udyog Ltd which was returned on 29th
March. It is surprising to find out that in the year 2014-15 in the
month of May and June, Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd has
accepted LCs from banks without booking of any purchase of
material. The company’s bank account is used for accommodation bills
and Mauria Udyog Ltd was paid an excess of Rs 1.16 crore over and
above an accommodation bill. In the year 2015-16, in the month of
May Amrapali group started supplying TMT bars to Mauria Udyog
Ltd, the purpose of supplies of TMT bars by Ultra Home
Construction Pvt Ltd was not explained to us. In the year 2015-16,
total supplies are to the extent of Rs 15.79 crore and in the year 2016-
17 amounting to Rs 5.36 crore. In the year 2015-16, payments were
made to Mauria Udyog Ltd on behalf of Shri Satguru Metalloys Pvt Ltd
and Bhagirathi Tubes of Rs 8 crore and Rs 6.50 crore respectively. We
were not explained any reasons for making such payments.

It is pertinent to note that the company is not doing any business and 136 are used just for the purpose of money laundering.

Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd
A group company of Sureka group paid Rs 1 crore to Amrapali Sapphire
Developers Pvt Ltd. The entire amount along with interest payment of
Rs 1.11 crore was paid to Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd,
surprisingly Amrapali group didn’t charge any interest on payments
made to Sureka group of companies but it had paid without fail interest
@ 13.45% to Shri Narayan Rajkumar Merchants Ltd. Further an
amount of Rs 2 crore was paid to Shri Narayan Rajkumar
Merchants Ltd on 31st March 2018, when the matter was pending
before the Honourable Supreme Court. The amount of Rs 2 crore
should immediately be recovered from Shri Narayan Rajkumar
Merchants Ltd and Sureka family. It is pertinent to note that the company is not doing any business and
are used just for the purpose of money laundering.

Conclusion
We are of the opinion that this company floated/formed for the purpose
of money laundering and FSI sold to these companies were merely
accounting and adjustment entries done by them transferring funds
from one account to another as reported earlier in our supplementary
report. The modus operandi adopted by Sureka family was the same as
adopted by Amrapali Group i.e. they formed the companies, their
employees who were paid salaries in the range of Rs 20,000-Rs 60,000
the shareholders and directors in these companies. It is pertinent to
note that their signatory to the bank are family members.

Mr. Navneet Sureka and Mr. Akhil Sureka used these companies for the
purpose of money laundering of funds of Amrapali Group.

The bank guarantee was bogus and we couldn’t find the bank name
which issued the bank guarantee, it appears that there was a criminal
conspiracy and the bank was not in existence. Mr. Navneet Sureka was in full control of Amrapali group companies
which is very clear and can be understood from the transactions of
donation. On the instructions of Mr. Navneet Sureka, GM/DGM
accounts Mr. Adhikari was transferring funds to the trust from various
group companies of Amrapali as and when desired by him and
instructed by him. None of the directors ever attended a board meeting it was informed
that the directors signed the paper under the instructions and
directions of Mr. Akhil Sureka. The fact was accepted by Mr. Akhil
Sureka. This proves that there was non compliances of holding board
meetings and AGM as required u/s 174 of Companies Act, 2013.
Further, the bank signatories to the bank are Mr. Vishnu Sureka and
Mr. Navneet Sureka as an authorized signatory. In what capacity they
were the signatory, they could not explain and it was told by Mr. Akhil
Sureka and Mr. Vishnu Sureka that the directors were having full faith
upon them therefore authorized them as bank signatory surprisingly,
directors were not the signatory this is an unique case which is difficult
to found in the corporate history. When there was a transfer of shares from one shareholder to other in
full or part of his/her shareholding there was no transactions for
consideration through banking channels. 23. 27 Additional companies (i) Funds invested to become the consortium partners by these 27
companies were from the Amrapali group of companies and these 27
companies were just the face created to comply the conditions of
partners and also keeping in mind to demerge a part of the plot in
furtue to the consortium partners. The funds contributed by these 27
companies were originated and routed from the Amrapali group
companies. (ii) These companies were managed by CFO Mr. Chander Wadhwa,
Company Secretary Mr. Pankaj Mehta and CA Mr. Anil Mittal.

General: The cash on Hand of Rs. 1.98 crore. From these companies is not
traceable and is misappropriated and be recovered from CA Anil Mittal
The Directors in these companies are Junior employees of Anil Mittal
Statutory Auditors namely 1. Pankaj Mehta Company Secretary of Amrapali group of Companies 2. Vivek Mittal Nephew of Anil Mittal 3. Chandan Kumar Office boy of Anil Mittal 4. Seema Mittal wife of Anil Mittal 5. Chandar Wadhwa CFO 6. Bushan Sharma 7. Ashish Jain employee of Anil Mittal 8. Amit Wadhwa Nephew of Chandar Wadhwa

List of companies are as under: S.no Name of company Page no 1. Aptara Infrastructure Pvt Ltd 2. Bhavya Housing Projects Private Limited 3. Bushells Developers Private Limited 4. Chintapurni Estates Private Limited
 5 DH Education Services Pvt Ltd 6. Earthwell Developers Pvt Ltd 7. Eklavya Building Solutions Pvt Ltd 8. Bushells Reality Solution Private Limited 9. Saffron Propmart Consultancy Private
 Limited 10. GaurisutaBuildhome Private Limited 11. Gaurisuta Real Estate and Developers
 Private Limited 12. Kamyani Realtors Private lImited 13. Kapila Building Solution Private Limited 14. MahamayaBuildcon Private Limited 138 15. Rinku Clothing Creation Private Limited 16. RRS Properties Private Limited 17. Spacewell Developers Private Limited 18. StatelinesBuildwell Private Limited 19. Mansarovar Textiles Private Limited 20. Rainbow Cotton Private Limited 21. Kamakshi Buildwell Private Limited 22. Golden Portfolio Consultant Private
 Limited 23. Double Esh Infrastructure Private
 Limited 24. Aashirwad Linens Private Limited 25. Aksh Real Estates Private Limited 26. AdhunikBuildtech Private Limited 27. Rinku Computech Private Limited

We recommend the forfeiture of the following investment in the group
companies by these 27 companies because the funds invested to
become the consortium partners were from the group companies and
these companies were just the front created to comply the conditions of
partners and also keeping in mind to demerge a part of the plot in
future to the consortium partners. The funds contributed by these 27
companies were originated and routed from the Amrapali group
companies. Rs. 100 of Crores of home buyers funds in active connivance of CFO
 Chandar Wadhwa and Statutory Auditors Anill Mittal were routed
 through 1. Rinku Computech Private Limited 140 Patel Advance JV 8,25,00,000
Case Enterprises Ltd 10,00,000
Manjeet Singh 16,00,000
MSB Software Technologies 2,40,000
Anil Kumar Sharma 9,85,000
Bhushan Sharma 34,00,000
Digital India 19,59,110
KK Shukla 9,00,000
RV Consultant Service 95,00,000
Sundry Advances 26,99,000

Sunita Bhagwani 20,00,000
Saffron Propmart Consultancy Pvt Ltd 7,10,00,000
TOTAL 17,77,83,110

Date Particulars Transaction Balance

28-03-2018 Balance as on 28/03/2018 4,06,50,815
 Payment to Saffron Propmart
29-05-2018 Less: Consultancy Private Limited 3,90,00,000

 Less: Payment to Preeti Jaiswal 1,50,000

 Less: Other Payments 5,90,771

 Balance before proceeds 9,10,044
 from FDR

 Receipts From FDR

31-07-2018 Add: Proceeds from FDR 9,86,19,983

 Balance after proceeds from 9,95,30,027
 FDR
 Payments made out of
 receipts from
 FDR
 Net Payment to Saffron
31-07-2018 Less: Propmart Consultancy 3,20,00,000
 Private Limited

01-08-2018 Less: Payment to Vandana 2,00,00,000
 Wadhwa

23-10-2018 Less: Payment to Ample Hotels & 1,00,00,000
 Resorts 141 23-10-2018 Less: Payment to Moral Sales 1,00,00,000

23-10-2018 Less: Payment to Mahalaxmi 1,00,00,000
 Enterprises

23-10-2018 Less: Payment to Annex IT 70,00,000
 Distributors

23-10-2018 Less: Payment to Anjali Buildcon 1,00,00,000

 Other Payments 1,61,904

 TOTAL 9,91,61,904

 Balance as on 28-10-2018 3,68,123 24. Misuse of Bank Loan funds (Volume II Page No. 426-457)
 Diversion of loan funds for unapproved purposes
 Amrapali group of companies obtained funds primarily from following
 sources: Observation 1. The amounts disbursed were not utilised for payment of cost of
 land or for payment of lease rentals or for payment of construction cost.
 The banks did not monitor utilisation of funds granted by them. In
 fact, these funds were diverted as loans to related and/or unrelated
 entities which was ultimately utilised in building assets/purposes
 which were unapproved by the banks. The banks acted as mute
 spectator to unapproved diversion which was almost happening
 evidently in all banking transactions. 2. While obtaining loan funds, Amrapali group hypothecated land on
 which project was being undertaken as well as building under
 construction as well as material lying at project, leaving nothing with
 home buyers for recovery of their payments. 3. It is also observed that the loan funds were routed through several
 bank accounts of the same company and thereafter routed to third
 parties whereby trying to misguide the flow of funds. It clearly means
 these transactions had no substance and were made only to mislead. 1. In the case of Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt Ltd: The banks also secured second charge over the land & buildings (First
charge is with Noida Authority). Also hypothecated raw Material, work
in progress (pari passu charge over the project assets).

Immediately on receipt, these funds were diverted to several third
parties as stated

 S.No. Particulars Amount

 1 U Tek Sales Corporation 6,97,39,500

 2 Taneja Building material Suppliers 4,24,01,000

 3 Devki Nandan Trading Co 3,00,00,000

 4 Guru Kripa Traders-2 3,00,00,000

 5 Shri Balaji Cement & Hardware 2,89,61,000

 6 Investor Clinic Infratech Private Limited 2,00,00,000

 7 Mauria Udyog Limited 3,00,00,000

 8 Shiva Trders 2,00,00,000

 9 Shiv Traders 1,75,00,000

 10 Om Traders 1,35,00,000

 11 Lakshmi Steel 1,20,81,351

 12 Mahaveer Enterprises 1,00,00,000

 13 Sidhivinayak Trading Company 1,00,00,000
 14 Rama Trading Company 143 75,00,000

15 Uday Enterprises 69,50,500

16 Orient Trading Company 68,96,800

17 Kartikey Enterprises 68,72,600

18 Dayal Traders 68,42,300

19 R.K. Enterprises 67,50,500

20 MahaLuxmi Traders 67,32,500

21 Purnima Steel Syndicate 65,71,972

22 New Payal Traders 64,50,500

23 Shyam Sales Corporation 64,38,700

24 Kishan Steel Corporation 62,53,700

25 Shri Ganesh Trading Company 62,50,500

26 Arhaan Enterprises 62,17,570

27 Gayatri Traders 59,42,500

28 Lakshmi Steels 53,42,600

29 Guru Kripa Traders 50,00,000

30 Guru Nanak Trading Company 50,00,000

31 R R Enterprises 50,00,000

32 Rohit Steel 50,00,000

33 Shree Ji Trading Company 50,00,000

34 Shri Hari Trading Company 50,00,000

35 G.S. Enterprises 49,50,500

36 A.B Enterprises 48,16,654

37 Amit Steel 40,00,000

38 Barnala Steel Industries Ltd 36,72,008

39 S.R Steel 34,92,054

40 Kumar Trading Company 32,45,859

41 Quality Synthetics Private Limited 25,00,000 144 42 Shri Bankey Bihari Trading Company 25,00,000

 43 Jayem Manufacturing Co Pvt Ltd 23,15,400

 44 SBL Construction Private Limited 22,10,040

 45 ANALCO ( INDIA ) PVT LTD 21,86,728

 46 Kumar Trading CO 19,53,325

 47 BUILD TECH INDUSTRIES 19,06,800

 48 M. K TRADERS 16,20,370

 49 Shree Ram Plywood 14,79,510

 50 ARUNACHAL TIMBER TRADERS PVT LTD 13,98,400

 51 Naveen Associates 13,60,217

 52 Deepak Mehta & Associates 13,50,000

 53 Raj Shree Ispat 10,92,584
 DREAM INTERIORS & DEVELOPERS (P)
 54 LTD 10,00,790

 55 Aryan Corporate Soloutions Pvt Ltd 10,00,000

 56 Astech Marketing Private Limited 6,81,321

 57 Jotindra Steel & Tubes Ltd 5,00,250

 58 Amrapali Infrastructure Private Limited 2,94,829

 TOTAL 51,37,23,732

 Few examples of diversion of funds are as under: Date Particulars Vch Type Debit Credit Balance
05/10/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 15000000.00 15000000.00
 A/C No - Dr
 21580200000079 145 06/10/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 5000000.00 20000000.00
 A/C No - Dr
 21580200000079

15/10/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 5000000.00 25000000.00
 A/C No - Dr
 21580200000079

16/10/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 5000000.00 30000000.00
 A/C No - Dr
 21580200000079

29/12/2010 STEEL Purchase 1105440.00 28894560.00
 U.P Dr
01/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1137012.00 27757548.00
 U.P Dr
01/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1127296.00 26630252.00
 U.P Dr
01/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1081575.00 25548677.00
 U.P Dr
01/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1114169.00 24434508.00
 U.P Dr
02/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1096914.00 23337594.00
 U.P Dr
02/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1078802.00 22258792.00
 U.P Dr
03/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1091563.00 21167229.00
 U.P Dr
03/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 858603.00 20308626.00
 U.P Dr
04/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1107007.00 19201619.00
 U.P Dr
04/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1084429.00 18117190.00
 U.P Dr
05/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1077003.00 17040187.00
 U.P Dr
05/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1062433.00 15977754.00
 U.P Dr
05/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1054560.00 14923194.00
 U.P Dr
06/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1112498.00 13810696.00
 U.P Dr
06/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1118674.00 12692022.00
 U.P Dr
07/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1034488.00 11657534.00
 U.P Dr
07/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1087996.00 10569538.00
 U.P Dr
08/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1082110.00 9487428.00 146 U.P Dr
08/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1054092.00 8433336.00
 U.P Dr
09/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1116534.00 7316802.00
 U.P Dr
10/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1109399.00 6207403.00
 U.P Dr
10/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1073727.00 5133676.00
 U.P Dr
10/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1087996.00 4045680.00
 U.P Dr
11/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1062669.00 2983011.00
 U.P Dr
11/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 889730.00 2093281.00
 U.P Dr
12/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1023600.00 1069681.00
 U.P Dr
13/01/2011 STEEL Purchase 1097561.00 27880.00 Cr
 U.P
31/03/2012 REBETE & Journal 27880.00
 DISCOUNT
30027880.00 30027880.00 2. Shri Balaji Cement & Hardware
 RS. 2.08 crore was paid as advance to them towards the end of March
 2011 against which expense was booked on 31st March 2011 and
 continued till 1st week of April 2011. It was noticed that the same
 person was selling steel, bricks, cement, rodi sand, badarpur, which
 itself is in unorganised sector and is questionable. 3. Investor Clinic Infratech Private Limited
 It is evident from the books of accounts that loan funds were utilized for
 payment of RS. 2 crore who had invoiced the company for brokerage
 expense which is not construction linked payment. Brokerage is an
 indirect expense, incurred for the sale of flat. The banks had granted
 funds for construction activity and not for sale activity. This is clearly
 diversion of loan funds to unapproved means. 4. Shiva Traders
 RS. 2 crore was paid as advance on 9th October 2010 against which
 subsequently invoices for purchase of steel were booked in December
 2010 only to adjust the balance. RS. 1.35 crore was paid in September 2010 against which subsequently
 invoices for purchase of steel were booked in December 2010 only to
 adjust the balance. Date Particulars Vch Type Debit Credit Balance
 02/06/2010 BOM-SEC51 A/C Payment 50,00,000 50,00,000
 No - 60036386553
 03/06/2010 Hardware Item Purchase 8,76,488 41,23,512
 U.P
 24/06/2010 Hardware Item Purchase 9,20,241 32,03,271
 U.P
 03/07/2010 Hardware Item Purchase 7,57,796 24,45,475
 U.P
 04/07/2010 Hardware Item Purchase 7,56,000 16,89,475
 U.P 150 05/07/2010 Hardware Item Purchase 7,20,421 9,69,054
 U.P
10/08/2010 Steel Purchase Purchase 9,77,734 8,680
 U.P
14/09/2010 HDFC BANK(L.N) Payment 50,00,000 49,91,320
22/09/2010 BOM-SEC51 A/C Payment 60,00,000 1,09,91,320
 No - 60036386553
27/09/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 85,00,000 1,94,91,320
 A/C No - 21580200000079
01/10/2010 Bank of Baroda Payment 50,00,000 2,44,91,320
 A/C No - 21580200000079
22/10/2010 BOM-SEC51 A/C Payment 1,50,00,000 3,94,91,320
 No - 60036386553
25/10/2010 HDFC BANK(C.P)- Payment 1,00,00,000 4,94,91,320
 14018640000045
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,90,150 4,85,01,170
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,49,200 4,75,51,970
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,98,025 4,65,53,945
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,48,518 4,56,05,427
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,18,750 4,46,86,677
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,06,203 4,37,80,474
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 7,80,780 4,29,99,694
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,45,000 4,20,54,694
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 11,08,275 4,09,46,419
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,41,850 4,00,04,569
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 12,81,000 3,87,23,569
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,06,780 3,78,16,789
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,08,523 3,69,08,266
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 7,38,203 3,61,70,063
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 11,24,928 3,50,45,135
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,70,305 3,40,74,830
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,93,550 3,31,81,280
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,91,030 3,22,90,250
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,94,548 3,13,95,702
 U.P 151 01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,49,450 3,05,46,252
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,31,718 2,96,14,534
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,31,718 2,86,82,816
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,80,530 2,78,02,286
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,63,375 2,68,38,911
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 10,62,810 2,57,76,101
 U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 9,29,198 2,48,46,903
 Sanitary Items U.P
01/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,13,750 2,40,33,153
 U.P
02/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,56,800 2,31,76,353
 U.P
03/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 11,98,050 2,19,78,303
 Sanitary Items U.P
04/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 9,85,950 2,09,92,353
 Sanitary Items U.P
05/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 10,58,925 1,99,33,428
 Sanitary Items U.P
06/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,39,750 1,89,93,678
 U.P
07/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,04,825 1,81,88,853
 U.P
08/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,50,250 1,72,38,603
 U.P
09/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,80,824 1,63,57,779
 U.P
09/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 8,30,771 1,55,27,008
 Sanitary Items U.P
10/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 7,70,921 1,47,56,087
 Sanitary Items U.P
11/02/2011 Hardware & Purchase 7,88,130 1,39,67,957
 Sanitary Items U.P
12/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,03,693 1,30,64,264
 U.P
13/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,31,180 1,22,33,084
 U.P
14/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 6,44,532 1,15,88,552
 U.P
14/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,58,073 1,06,30,479
 U.P
15/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,56,802 96,73,677
 U.P
16/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,25,344 87,48,333
 U.P
17/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,03,231 78,45,102
 U.P
18/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 6,48,732 71,96,370
 U.P 152 18/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,02,578 63,93,792
 U.P
19/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,49,912 55,43,880
 U.P
20/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,77,550 45,66,330
 U.P
21/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,68,004 36,98,326
 U.P
22/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 10,56,930 26,41,396
 U.P
23/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,29,500 18,11,896
 U.P
24/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 9,21,413 8,90,483
 U.P
25/02/2011 Hardware Item Purchase 8,79,564 10,919
 U.P
31/03/2012 REBETE & Journal 10,919
 DISCOUNT
54500000.00 5,45,00,000 6. Mauria Udyog Limited
 RS. 3 crore was diverted to the company on 29th September 2010 and
 30th March 2011 for RS. 1 crore & 2 crore respectively as advance and
 the same was subsequently booked against purchase of steel in
 January 2011 and May 2011 only to adjust the balance. 1. In the case of Amrapali Princely Estate Pvt Ltd: was used for repayment of Loan (ii) Radius Synergies Pvt Ltd – It is seen that RS. 1.55 crore was
given as advances since 2013 and continued giving advances till 2015
to this party. Out of these funds an amount of Rs.1 crore is outstanding
till 31st March 2015. Out of advances for Rs.1.55 crore, expenses were
booked only for Rs.52 lakh for labour charges in 2014. The veracity of
the expenses booked is to be examined (iii) Shriv Build Mat India Pvt – It is seen that Rs.20 Lakh was given
as advance in 2014 which has not returned subsequently and no
expense was also booked. 2. In the case of Amrapali Eden Park Developers Pvt Ltd: Consequent to the questioning they agreed to surrender the flats.

(Refer ANNEXURE XIII.6) 3. Chaudhary ENT Udyog (Supplier of Bricks)
As per the copy of the receipts issued by Amrapali Group of Companies,
it has been observed that the party had paid INR 500,000 in cash on
24th February, 2017 vide receipt number 3074 Dated 24.02.2017 (Copy
enclosed) on account of flat Number T6-G06 that was allotted to the
said party in Amrapali Grand on account of outstanding amounts due
from Amrapali Group of Companies. The Company has not recorded the
receipt of the aforesaid amount of INR 500,000 in their books of
account. This shows that this money has been taken away by the Management
and hence should be recovered from them. It was further informed by the supplier, that Amrapali Group of
Companies committed a fraud since this flat is already sold to Mr.
Nikhil Kumar Datta. The party came to know of this on 31st August,
2018, when he received a letter dated 18th August, 2018 from IDBI
Bank seeking payment for overdue amount in the name of Mr. Nikhil
Kumar Datta. This a serious kind of fraud done by the Amrapali Group of Companies.
The party has even written a letter to Police, Uttar Pradesh against the
aforesaid fraud. Copy of the said letter to police along with the letter
issued by IDBI Bank to Mr. Nikhil Kumar Datta has been enclosed as
Annexure 34-D. 4. Closing Inventory as per Audited Financial Statement as on
31 March, 2015
 st

There is no stock list, valuation certificate or any documentary evidence
regarding physical verification with the company or in the Statutory
Auditors file. We are of the view that these are only arbitrary figures
shown in the Audited Financial Statements. 5. Fixed Assets a) Building Account
During the financial year 2013-14 a sum of INR 80.34 crores has been
capitalized to Building A/c by crediting various purchase/expense
account as per journal voucher passed on 31/03/14 as per the copy of
the voucher given below. This entry seems to be a mere adjustment entry since there is no
Valuation report on the basis of which these expenses are capitalized to
Building account and no working sheet of the same is available.

We are of the view that this amount has been taken away by the
Management of the Company and this amount should be recovered
from them. 6. Royalgolf Link City Projects Private Limited
It has been observed that a sum of INR 4 Crores approximately is
recoverable from M/s Royalgolf Link City Projects Private Limited
(Royalgolf) in the books of Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. on account
of supply of precast materials. Mr. Shiv Priya was the Director of this Company from 26.9.2014 (Date
of Incorporation of the company) to 3.4.2017. This Company was
formed as SPV for Cozy/Bagadiya Group of Companies with Mr. Shiv
Priya as the Director of Royalgolf launched for project “Hemisphere” .
Amrapali Group of Companies through Ultra Home Construction Private
Limited and Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. had given loan to
Royalgolf mainly for purchase of land and its registration thereof. A
dispute arose amongst the Company in six months of its operations and
on 1st April, 2015 a Loan Settlement Agreement was signed between
Amrapali Group, Cozy/ Bagadiya Group vide which 30 Villas valuing
approximately INR 50.47 cr. were earmarked for Amrapali Group.

Amrapali Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (Infra) was the Supplier of Precast
Building material and they were to supply these materials for
“Hemisphere” project worth INR 67 crores approximately. However,
Infra could supply only 24% of the contract value and due to difference
between Amrapali Group and Royalgolf, the contract was terminated in
June, 2017. Proceedings under IBC 2016 were initiated by Royalgolf against Infra
and they filed a claim for INR 17.50 crores with the IRP appointed by 159 NCLT. The matter is still in dispute at NCLT for the claimed loan of
17.50 crores lodged by Royalgolf on Amrapali Infra. 7. Hire Charges Received
The Group companies had paid hire/erection charges from the various
group companies for example Amrapali Infrastructure received
Rs.170.15 crores during the period 2008-15. (Volume II – Page 306) It
was further observed that there have been no details regarding the
equipment given on hire to each company and the basis of raising bills
on account of hire charges. It seems that bills for hire charges have
been raised on arbitrary basis and there are no comparative quotations
for the same available. 26. STATUS OF DATA AVAILABILITY

There is overlapping in accounting data from April 2016 to September
2016 and we found that few entries were entered in FARVISION and few
in the tally for the said period. Due to scarcity of time audit not completed of following
companies/entities/persons: The following companies were carved out by Amrapali Group, which are
being audited and a report on these companies will be submitted. 1) Prem Mishra Indore. 2) O2 Valley Noida 3) Heart beat city projects Noida. 27. M.S. Dhoni

It is observed that the Company Amrapali Sapphire Developers Private
Limited has paid a sum of Rs. 6.52 Crores out of the total amount of Rs.
42.22 Crores paid from the Amrapali group of Companies to Rhiti
Sports Management Private Limited during the years 2009 - 2015.

This sum has been paid on account of Agreements executed by Shri
Anil Kumar Sharma, CMD for and on behalf of Amrapali Group of
Companies with Rhiti Sports Management Private Limited. There is no
resolution on record authorizing Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma, CMD to enter
into an agreement on behalf of all Amrapali group of Companies.

There were various agreements as per details given below: This clearly shows that these Agreements have just been made for
payment of amounts to Rhiti Sports Management Private Limited
Company are Sham Agreements and made just for making payments to
Rhiti Sports Management Private Limited. We feel that Home Buyers
money has been diverted illegally and wrongly to Rhiti Sports
Management Private Limited and should be recovered from them as the
said Agreement in our opinion do not stand the test of Law.

Amrapali Mahi Developers Pvt Ltd
 • Mr. Mahendra Singh Dhoni, husband of Ms. Sakshi Singh
 Dhoni (director of company) was the brand ambassador of
 Amrapali group and have carried out a number of transactions
 with respect to endorsement of Amrapali group’s projects. He
 has entered in agreements with other group company.
 • We are informed verbally that this company was incorporated
 for development of a project in Ranchi. An MOU was also
 entered between the parties though we were not provided a copy
 of that. We understand that copy of MOU is available with Mr.
 Adhikari. In Amrapali Sapphire Developers Private Limited a Flat (Flat No – TC-
P04) has been booked in the name of Rhiti Sports Management Private
Limited by passing an adjustment entry. However Mr Sanjay Pandey of
Rhiti Sports Management Pvt Ltd denied booking of any such flat. He
also confirmed that neither the company nor any individual has any flat
in Amrapli Group. Mr Pandey confirmed that no due diligence was
carried out before accepting the brand endorsement though he informed
that brand value and paying capacity was seen. No Agreement was
provided though it was agreed that it would be provided by 11th March,
2019. Expenses were reimbursed to Rhiti Entertainment Private Limited
a group company, without any agreement. 28. Properties alienated

Chart D

The group started alienated the properties starting from 2015-16 , and
many properties were transferred when the case was pending before the
Honourable Court with a criminal mind to alienate the assets. The
funds were routed from one account to another and properties were
registered in benami names. For the assets sold up to 31/3/2015, we didn’t generally find anything
in contravention of the details submitted in affidavit Chart D.

We have categorized the Chart-D transactions into following 3
categories: The amount borrowed in
 against private equity which
 has no liabilty of principal
 and interest and the investor
 would recover his its
 investments by selling the
 shares on/off market. 1 The above does not include the cash received from customers.
2 * Assumed the figure as given in the affidavit. 31. Mrs. Manju Rajpal and Mr. Ramesh Rajpal

 Mrs. Manju Rajpal and Mr. Ramesh Rajpal HUF each invested Rs 7.5 166 crore in May 2011 on interest in Amrapali Leisure Valley Private
Limited. The rate of interest is 18%. However he claimed in his
submission that it was an investment in residential property for his
staff because he was having a plan to shift his business operations in
Noida. He submitted that he acquired this property for residence of his
staff. On reviewing the return of income of Mrs. Manju Rajpal (Refer
annexure S-1 of supplementary report page no. 2823) and Mr.
Ramesh Rajpal we found that amount invested in various units as given
below: We found Unit No A-396 in Amrapali Leisure Valley Private Limited is
booked in the name of Mr. Satya Vir Srivastava on 14th July, 2014
admeasuring area 2525 sq. feet for a value of Rs 65.5 Lakh. It depicts
very clearly that there was no unit admeasuring an area of 17,675
sq feet and the amount was invested for a purpose to avail Capital Gain
benefits and earn interest on investment at the rate 18% p.a. It is
recommended that the units allotted as per Annexure S-3 of
supplementary report page no. 2825-2826 should be treated as
vacant and be available for sale. The amount invested in residential property is claimed as Capital gain.
Subsequently in the year 2017, the villas were shifted from Amrapali
Leisure Valley Private Limited to Royalgolf Link, Amrapali Princely
Estate Private Limited, Amrapali Zodiac Developers Private Limited,
Amrapali Silicon City Private Limited, Amrapali Dream Valley Private
Limited and Amrapali Smart City Developers Private Limited and the
villas numbers are attached. (Refer Annexure 2.2 and Annexure 2.3)

For the amount invested of Rs 15 crore, Rs 12.25 crore has been paid to
him in the form of interest at the rate of 18%. Exotique Exports, an entity of Mr Rajpal, invested Rs 5 crore in 2010 at
the interest rate of 18%. It had been paid Rs 4.55 till February 2016 in
the form of interest. It is submitted that 5 units namely Unit no. 118,
119, 120, 121, 122 were purchased in Amrapali Commercial Complex 167 Cum Corporate Hub at Plot No. Sector – 2 Manesar, Gurgaon, Haryana
for Rs 5Cr however the value of 5 units as per Builder Buyer Agreement
is Rs 3.19 Cr. 32. M/s Surbhaee Advertising Private Limited
(Immovable Property-A3A, Maharani Bagh, New Delhi) (i) Mr. Paramjit Gandhi, Mr. Gagandeep Gandhi & Ms. Jasmine
Gandhi are the directors of the company M/s Surbhaee Advertising
Private Limited. The shares of M/s Surbhaee Advertising Private Limited were
purchased by Mr. Paramjeet Gandhi & M/s Special Tools Private
Limited (a company owned by him & his family) for Rs 1.59 crore for
which no agreement was provided by them. (ii) It was informed that principal business of the company is
Advertising of Projects. However no income has been earned from its
principal business activity or any other source. (iii) The company is holding an immovable property at A3A Maharani
Bagh, New Delhi admeasuring approximately 800 sq yards.

It is also stated that the family of Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma is residing in
the same house against which no rent deed is agreed between Mr. Anil
Kumar Sharma & Mr. Paramjit Gandhi (Surbhaee Advertising Private
Limited) (iv) When asked to Mr. Paramjit Gandhi who resides in Ghaziabad that
why he purchased the property in New Delhi 4-5 years back, he replied
that he wanted to shift to this property. However the fact is that he has never shifted to Delhi & all the
renovation & maintenance work was overlooked by Mr. Anil Kumar
Sharma. (v) The company has also taken loan of Rs. 25 crores from Aditya
Birla Finance Limited in the FY 2016-17 against the hypothecation of
the property which was purchased for Rs 1.59 crore. This indicates the
property value was much higher on the date of transfer. (vi) The company has advanced Rs. 25.88 crores as short term loans &
advances to the following parties- 1. Chandan Homes Private Limited- Rs. 6.89 crores. 2. Inderjeet Arora- Rs. 1.25 crores. 3. Ishwar Steels- Rs. 2.18 crores 4. Jai Kishan Estate Developers Private Limited- Rs. 1.33 crores. 5. Shekri Finance & Investment Private Limited- Rs. 3.10 crores. 6. Shubha Green Private Limited- Rs. 4.77 crores. 7. Special Tools Private Limited- Rs. 3.37 crores. 8. PJ Buildtech Private Limited- Rs. 0.55 crores. 9. Paradise System Private Limited- Rs. 0.52 crores. 10. Jiwan Kumar Arora- Rs. 0.50 crores. 11. Shubhkamna Buildtech Private Limited- Rs. 0.25 crores. 168 (vii) The company has also received Rs. 2.35 crores & Rs. 3.55 crores
from Mr. Ritik Kumar Sinha & Miss Swapnil Shikha respectively, also
directors in M/s Surbhaee Advertising Private Limited in the FY 2016-
17 out of funds received from Amrapali group of companies enrouted
via the account of Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma. (viii) It implies that the property which was bought for Rs 1.59 crore,
the amount has been funded out of Amrapali Group funds routed by
Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma who is family member and from them to
Surbhaee Advertising Private Limited. Two of his family members were
made director to have a control on the property of a value of Rs 50 Cr. It
further proves that the difference between the value of property and the
price at which it was transferred to Mr. Paramjit Gandhi was paid in
cash out of cash amount received in Amrapali Group by booking of
bogus expenditure and selling the flats undervalued.

Opinion
Based on the facts stated above, in our opinion the property at A3A
Maharani Bagh, New Delhi is a “Property” belongs to Mr. Anil Kumar
Sharma/Amrapali group held in the name of the company M/s
Surbhaee Advertising Private Limited. 33. Facility Sold
It is found that the facilities sold under various projects as shown in
Chart M of Affidavit submitted on 3Rd December, 2018 are mere
adjustment entries (Refer Annexure S-10 of supplementary report
page no. 2958-2959). We found that the buyer is not aware of that he has purchased any land
for the mentioned facility. We further found that there is no account in
the name of the said buyers in many cases to whom the facilities were
sold. It is recommended that the facilities sold so far should be
attached. 34. Mr.Prem Mishra
We are of the opinion and also given to understand from various
sources that the group diverted funds in the range of 500-600 crore in
Madhya Pradesh projects in particular Indore. Mr.Prem Mishra has
appeared in response to the court notice and he was non-cooperative.
We have also received a communication supporting our views,
reproduced below- “Good Evening Sir,
 Hope you are doing well, this is regards Amrapali Scam of CMD Anil
Sharma, as per my information CMD has transferred 1 thousand crore to
the different Amrapali Townships project of M.P. through Mr. Prem
Mishra. The details of the same on paper is available with me. If you can
arrange some time and allow me to have a detail discussion of the same,
that would be great.Kindly inform me two days prior to the meeting date,
as I am from XXXXXX. need to do some arrangements for the same, its a
request. Waiting for your response.” 169 We could not complete the examination of Mr.Prem Mishra in Indore
 project due to paucity of time and request it to be included in the
 second audit. 35. Heartbeat City Developers Private Limited
 The project is in the name of 3 companies namely Pebbles Prolease
 Private Limited, Three Platinum Softech Private Limited and Baseline
 Infradevelopers Private Limited. The project is an Amrapali group’s
 project which was carved out from Amrapali Group of companies while
 case was pending before Honorable Supreme Court. Funds were
 invested in the project from Amrapali Group through Mr. Amit Wadhwa,
 Mr. Amit Wadhwa was a partner of 25% each in Pebbles Prolease
 Private Limited and Three Platinum Softech Private Limited. Amrapali
 Group launched and advertised the project as Amrapali Group project
 and the project was named as Amrapali Heartbeat City Developers
 Private Limited in the agreements. Corporate office was having the same
 address as Amrapali Corporate Tower in Sector 62, Noida. The purpose
 of carving out the project from Amrapali is not known. It is informed
 that Mr. Vaibhav Jain and Mr. Sankalp Shukla are the key managerial
 persons. In the absence of accounting records we could not proceed
 further on the issue. 35. Summary of recoverable amounts
 Total recoveries from undermentioned areas: Total amount involved in under-valued transactions in respect of Companies
 audited by us is 170 Rs.321.31 Crores as per summary given below: Limited
 Point No. 4a
 2 Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers 329 100.67 Volume – I
 Page No.39-
 Private Limited
 Point No. 4a
 3 Amrapali Smart City Developers Private 183 65.29 Volume – I
 Page No.39-
 Limited
 Point No. 4a
 4 Amrapali Silicon City Private Limited 191 154.25 Volume – I
 Page No.39-
 Point No. 4a
 5 Amrapali Dream Valley Private Limited 1833 660.91 Volume – I
 Page No.39-
 Point No. 4a 173 6 Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt. Ltd.* 1203 412.91 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 7 Amrapali Centurian Park Pvt. Ltd.* 981+2 329.34 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 8 Amrapali Eden Park Developers 4 2.47 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 Pvt. Ltd.* (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 9 Amrapali Princely Estate Pvt. Ltd.* 3 4.54 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 10 Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt. Ltd.* 27 41.48 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 11 Ultra Home Construction Pvt. Ltd.* 459 205.38 Volume – II
 Section XXII
 (Page No.
 563 – 568)
 Total 5,229 1991.69

 *Estimated Realizable value Noida @ Rs 4,500 approximately psf and
 Greater Noida @ Rs3,000 approximately psf (Amount in Crores). 5. Amount recoverable from Key Managerial Persons and their
 Relatives a) Professional fees paid to directors Rs.100.53 crore
 Name of Director Professional Fees
 (As per Affidavit) (Under Disclosure in
 Rs. in Cr. Affidavit)Rs. in Cr. A sum of Rs.152.24 crores is recoverable from the Directors on
 account of their taxes paid, advance given for purchase of Shares and
 Other Advances given including their family members. The companies
 gave advances which were neither adjusted nor squared off against any
 future purchases or services under taken by the companies from the
 said parties nor were received back by the companies Stunning
 Construction Private Limited had made payments of Direct Taxes
 which were neither received back by the Company nor adjusted
 against any services. In other words the said advances are still
 standing to the debit (recoverable from these parties) in the books of
 the Company. This includes a sum of INR 17.43 Crores paid on
 behalf of directors, senior employees and their family members.
 Please refer executive summary on Page 39 of Volume 1 of Final Report.

 Summarized as below: Developers Private
 Limited (Page No.
 202-219)
 2 Stunning 17.43 6.4 5.57 1.7 3.76
 Construction Private
 Limited (Page No.
 196-201)
 3 Amrapali Smart City 0.02 - - - 0.02
 Developers Private
 Limited (Page No.- 229-244)
 4 Amrapali Silicon 0.28 0.05 0.23 - - City Private Limited
 (Page No. 255-266)
 5 AHS Joint Venture 9.58 6.18 3.12 0.28 - (Page No.- 273- 278)
 6 Amrapali 113.54 73.25 35.15 5.14 - Infrastructure 176 Private Limited
 (Page No. 286-306)
7 Sangam Colonizers 0.03 - - - 0.03
 Private Limited
 (Page No.189-192)
8 Amrapali Hospitality 6.62 6.55 - - 0.07
 Services Private
 Limited (Page No.
 346-350)
9 Hi Tech City 4.24 4.24 - - - Cash in hand of various Companies is not physically available nor
 deposited in the banks and siphoned by the Directors amounting to
 Rs.69.36 crores should be recovered from the Directors as per details
 given below: The Company has given advances to various parties. The said advances
 that were given by the Company were neither adjusted nor squared off
 against any future purchases or services. No details regarding Pan,
 Address and Nature of Advance has been given to us. The actual amount
 may be much higher. S. no. Name of the Company Amount (In Refer Page No.
 Crores)
1 Amrapali Sapphire Developers 73.06 Volume – I Page
 Private Limited
 No.40- Point No.4c
2 Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers 19.67 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
 Private
 Limited
3 Amrapali Smart City Developers 17.20 Volume – I Page
 Private Limited No.40- Point No.4c
4 Amrapali Silicon City Private Limited 50.41 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
5 AHS Joint Venture 15.81 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
6 Hi-tech City Developers Private 8.91 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
7 Amrapali Infrastructure Private 40.24 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
 Limited
8 Sangam Colonizers Private Limited 0.36 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
9 Amrapali Power and Cement Private 0.91 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
10 Hawthorne Intellect 0.17 Volume – I Page
 Management Solutions No.40- Point No.4c
 Private Limited
11 Amrapali Aerocity Private Limited 0.01 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
12 Amrapali Buddha Developers Private 0.47 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
13 Gaurisuta Infrasolution Private 1.24 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
14 Amrapali Hospitality Services Private 13.55 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
15 Kapila Buildhome Private Limited 0.41 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
16 Mums Mega Food Park Private 1.29 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
17 Mannat Buildcraft Private Limited 0.99 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
18 Amrapali Patel Platinum 7.85 Volume – I Page
 No.40- Point No.4c
19 Stunning Constructions Private 0.44 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c 179 20 Amrapali Dream Valley Private 3.23 Volume – I Page
 Limited No.40- Point No.4c
21 Amrapali Grand 29.17 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
22 Amrapali Homes 21.41 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
23 La residential Developers Pvt. Ltd. 23.35 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
24 Amrapali Eden Park Developers 3.02 Annexure X.2 Final
 Pvt. Ltd. Report Volume – IV
25 Gaurisuta Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. 0.46 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
26 Jhamb Finance & Leasing Pvt. 5.93 Annexure X.2 Final
 Ltd. Report Volume – IV
27 Ultra Home Construction Pvt. Ltd. 87.68 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
28 Amrapali Homes Project Pvt. Ltd. 55.01 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
29 Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt. 28.07 Annexure X.2 Final
 Ltd. Report Volume – IV
30 Amrapali Smart City Pvt. Ltd. 0.95 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
31 Amrapali Leisure Valley Pvt. Ltd. 51.62 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
32 Amrapali Media Vision Pvt. Ltd. 4.96 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
33 Amrapali Health care Pvt. Ltd. 0.22 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
34 Stunning Construction Pvt. Ltd. 14.61 Annexure X.2 Final
 Report Volume – IV
 Total 582.68

 Advance Construction co Pvt ltd is/was a partner holding 9% in
 Amrapali Patel Platinum and 66% in AHS Joint Venture Project with
 Ultra Home Construction Pvt Ltd. They overdrew 7.10 crore and 14.81
 crore from the respective joint venture totaling to 21.91 crore

 While scrutinizing the documents sent by Advance Construction
 Company Private Limited, detail of capital contribution of the Advance
 Construction Company Private Limited as on 1st April, 2008 and
 thereafter is as under (as per tally data and confirmed by Advance
 Construction Company Private Limited): Financial
Year Name of Party Expense Debited Amount
2012-13 Staff Incentive 2,252,720
2014-15 Unity Contractor Labour 1,600,000 182 charges of
 Contractor
 ShailenderaDhwaj (T Z- Further as per financial statements and the books of accounts
 scrutinized by us up to 31st March 2015, a sum of Rs.1,588.59 Crores
 has been diverted to other projects, other group companies, directors
 and their relatives and senior employees. As per summary given below: It was further informed to us by the management of Amrapali that
Noida and Greater Noida authorities have submitted three claims before
the Honourable Supreme court. We were produced one of the annexure
of the affidavit and the same is reproduced below.

We found that Noida/Greater Noida authority administration was non
active for reasons best known to them. Amrapali group never paid the
2nd installment but Noida and Greater Noida authorities continued to
allot large size land to them without fail. They never bothered to issue
even a notice to be pasted at site for the information of home buyers
that the land dues had not been paid so that home buyers could be
cautious and on alert. In spite of non receipt of any installment, lease
rent, interest they were very trumped in giving no objection certificate
for the borrowings to Amrapali group from different sources like JP
Morgan, ICICI and Aditya Birla Pvt equity funds and/or various banks. Note: Information in respect of bank loans has been given to the
 extent of availability of documents.”

 61(a). The aforesaid is the summary of report of the Forensic Audit which

 states that the Group collaborated with external parties like J.P. Morgan in

 contravention of FEMA and distributed returns along with the principal

 amount, even though it did not book gains within the business of the 186 company. (b). The report also reveals various disturbing features that no accounts

were prepared from 2015 to 2018 and money was withdrawn out of it and

diverted from one company to another. The entire transactions were not

being entered into Tally. The opening balances were not entered properly.

In April 2015, the Amrapali Group introduced Far Vision an ERP, which

was also not implemented properly. (c). There was no information about purchases from the supplier. During

a search in 2013, it was held by Income Tax Authorities that purchases are

being made from bogus suppliers without receiving the goods physically.

Bogus expenses and cash has been surrendered by Amrapali Group in the

income tax search. (d). The amount shown as developmental charges is not supported by

evidence or vouchers. The total bogus expense has been ascertained to

Rs.842.42 crores. An amount of Rs.0.25 crore was paid to Mr. Alok Ranjan

towards brokerage. (e). The company has also made unusual cash payments in the financial

year 2016-2017 by transferring cash to the Site, but the same is not

supported/authenticated by the Site Cash In-charge. Certain payments

have not been found to be genuine. (f). The Group Companies purchased gold bar worth Rs.5.88 crore, which

is a personal expense and it should be recovered from the management of 187 the company. (g). The amount disbursed by Banks was not utilised for constructions of

projects and the funds of homebuyers as well as the amount disbursed

from the Banks were diverted to unapproved uses, namely, creation of

personal assets of Directors; creation of assets in closely held companies by

Directors along with their partners and relatives; funds were used for

personal expenses of Directors; funds were advanced to unrelated entities

for several years without levying interest on unrealized amount, the

recoverable amount from third parties has amounted to Rs.326 crores;

creation of discreet projects for personal income; and construction of assets

for other projects. (h). There were negligence and non-monitoring by Bankers. There was a

transfer of funds from one company to another company to a third

company and so on and so forth on the same dates would not have been

possible without the active support of the Bankers. They turned blind eye

to all the transfers and did not inquire, which were being routed every day.

If they had been alive to the situation, the Management would not have

dared to launder the money from one company to another according to

their whims and fancies and the Bankers are solely responsible for the

negligence on their part. The Bankers did not do any monitoring. The

Bank of Maharashtra and Andhra Bank also failed to do the monitoring.

Even the basic checks were foregone. The Banks acted as a mute spectator

to unapproved diversion which was happening evidently in all banking 188 transactions. Even, Noida and Greater Noida Authorities were grossly

negligent in reviewing and monitoring the progress of projects and did not

take any action for non-payment of land dues and continued to allot land

to Amrapali Group for the reasons best known to them. (i). The Directors along with trust partners discreetly divided the projects

into two parts: initio. The amount received by the Companies from home-buyers was more

than the amount spent on construction and for payment of the land. The

sole objective of taking a loan was to divert the funds to other ventures to

create assets in the name of family members and to make movies. Villas

were bought at tourist destination for fun at the expenses of the middle

class and low-income group people. (k). Several companies were created solely for the purpose of routing

funds. These companies did not have any material transaction as per the

main object for which they were incorporated and did not have a business 189 since their incorporation. 62. As is apparent from the report, several companies were created only

to route the funds and transactions consisting of office boys, persons with

no income and dummy companies in which family members and relatives

were inducted as members only for few transactions, which are as under: It was under the control of Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO. It has

advanced loans amounting to Rs.875 crores to related and unrelated

entities, which are recoverable. (2) Gaurisuta Infrastructure Private Limited

 It was also created for diverted funds. (3) Neelkanth Buildcraft Private Limited

 Similarly it was formed for the purpose of buying shares from J.P.

Morgan at exorbitant rates, consisiting of office boys and relatives of Mr.

Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor. (4) Stunning Construction Private Limited

 As per findings of the Forensic Auditors, they should either surrender

19.75 percent of land or 632 flats. (5) Kapila Buildhome Private Limited

 It financed a sum of Rs.392.68 crores. It accepted non-interest

bearing inter-corporate deposits from non-group companies, which was 190 used for money laundering. (6) Rudraksha Infracity Private Limited

 It was consisting of office boys and relative of Anil Mittal, Statutory

Auditor, which was created to receive money from Mannat Buildcraft

Private Limited and to transfer it to J.P. Morgan Investments by purchasing

it at exorbitant rates and for no other transaction. (7) Mannat Buidcraft Private Limited

 It was created for money laundering of Rs.120 crores, only for few

transactions. (8) Amrapali Magadh Developers Private Limited

 It did not carry out any principal business activity. The purpose of its

creation is not clear. The shareholders paid the share application money in

cash. (9) Amrapali Mahi Developers Private Limited

 It received share capital in cash and all the expenses were paid in

cash. (10) Amrapali Spring Valley Private Limited

 It was created for the purpose of routing and diversion of funds

amounting to Rs.186 crores has been found. (11) Amrapali Media Vision Private Limited

 It was created making movies. There was no necessity of creation of 191 this company for advertising. It was created to divert funds to make

movies. Rhiti Management Private Limited was paid Rs.24 crores for

professional charges and advertisement expenses etc.

(12) Hawthrone Intellect Management Solutions Private Limited

 It had paid up capital of Rs.1 lakh and incurred losses of Rs.2.33

crores. The expenses are inflated to wipe off the various loans and

advances received from sister concerns. The entries have found to be

dubious and the amount of loss of Rs.2.33 crores to be recovered from the

Directors as it was wiping off the amount of the homebuyers.

(13) Amrapali Smart City Private Limited

 It is stated in the report that plot allotted to Amrapali Smart City

Private Limited was cancelled, therefore, money receivable from Greater

Noida is Rs.18.35 crores. (14) Amrapali Biotech India Private Limited

 It was created for routing funds. The ICD's are either from the group

companies or received from outside the group companies through

adjustment entries. (15) Amrapali Healthcare Private Limited

 It formed the property by funds of Ultra Home Construction Private

Limited created from home buyers’ funds. It deserves to be sold. 192 (16) Amrapali Centurian Park Private Limited

 The Forensic Auditors have found bogus booking of expenditure and

certain adjustments against bogus billings of River Sand for an amount of

Rs.3.60 crores. (17) Amrapali Leisure Valley Private Limited

 Mr. Akhil Kumar Surekha became the Director and thereafter most

diversions of funds took place through the current account. The funds of

the company were transferred to and fro with companies in which Surekha

family had control. FSI was sold without taking approval from Great Noida

Authority. The money received from Bihari High Rise Private Limited was

diverted to Jotindra Steel & Tubes Limited and Ozone GSP Infratech by

routing it through Ultra Home Construction Private Limited. Bihariji High

Rise Private Limited, Jotindra Steel & Tubes Limited and Mauria Udyog

Limited are owned by Surekha family. There was bogus booking of

expenditure since March 2018 also of Rs.2.86 crores and other bogus

entries of huge amounts. (18) Amrapali Homes

 It has been found that Mauria Udyog Limited has to pay Rs.20 crores

and the same be recovered. (19) La Residentia Developers Private Limited

 The consortium of five members was created, which was controlled by

Amrapali Group. The shareholders and directors were just acting faces for 193 outsiders. There was diversion of funds since beginning of the project

itself. The company purchased raw material from Amrapali Infrastructure

Private Limited amounting to Rs.67.45 lakhs, but not even a single penny

was paid since then. The loan amount of Rs. 49 crores were taken. On the

other hand, there was withdrawal by Directors and advances given to the

related parties and entities. Amrapali Group transferred some of their

buyers to La Residentia Developers Private Limited and the payment for the

same was received by Amrapali Group. They were reflected as customers

in the customer data of Amrapali Group. The company is using the brand

name/trademark of Amrapali Group on its letterheads.

(20) Amrapali Homes Projects Limited

 Mr. Prem Mishra was given Rs.12.40 crores for purchase of land since

1st April 2008, out of which Rs.10 crores are still receivable from him.

Rs.55.87 crores are recoverable amounts and out of which Rs.20.75 crores

pertain to advances against land which has not been charged to cost of

construction. (21) Ultra Home Construction Private Limited

 The flats were allotted on false promises, forged documents and

certain allotted flats did not exist in the approved building plan.

Shareholders used the money of home buyers for allotment of shares in the

company. The records of certain lands purchased by the company

disappeared, the details of which have been given. The company has

advances recoverable amounting to Rs.111 crores. 194 (22) Amrapali Grand

 Bihariji Ispat Udyog Limited always had negative capital. Loans and

advances amounting to Rs.25.73 crores have been diverted. The other

diversions have also been noticed in the report.

(23) Amrapali Eden Park Developers Private Limited

 There is no substance in the nature of transactions of the company.

It was for routing funds form one entity to another to hidden objective.

Banks loans were diverted as advances to third parties. The funds were

diverted for purposes other than development. 63. Several companies were created for building assets. There was no

compliance of the statutory obligations by the companies. The annual

returns and audited financial statements have not been filed after

31.3.2015. The Registrar of Companies has disqualified the Directors,

namely, Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma, Mr. Amresh Kumar, Mr. Shiv Priya, Mr.

Ajay Kumar and Mr. Suvash Chandra Kumar for a period of 5 years under Section 164(2) of the Companies Act, 2013. The Company has not been

regular in payment of TDS and service tax and has also not filed relevant

returns after 31.3.2015. Mr. Anil Mittal, CA (Statutory Auditor) and Mr.

Chander Wadhwa, CFO were in connivance with each other. Mr. Anil

Mittal, CA blindly signed the accounts and along with Mr. Chander

Wadhwa, CFO is grossly involved in making manipulation in the accounts.

He has received payment on account of professional charges in the name of

companies in which his relatives were Directors and this fact has not been 195 disclosed in the audited financial statement. A sum of Rs.52.07 crore was

adjusted on account of professional fees due and to be paid on account of

audit fees. Further, a sum of Rs.16.36 crore was adjusted against a flat in

Amrapali Princely Estate on account of audit fees. They incorporated 27

additional companies identified. They were shell companies, whose share

capital was mostly subscribed in cash and the transfer of shares was also

in cash leaving no audit trail. The home-buyers funds to the extent of

Rs.5,619.47 crores have been diverted. There was diversion of funds to

various suppliers, fake purchases and advances without any adjustment.

Siphoning off funds had also taken place by way of booking under-valued

transactions in respect of the sale of flats. The Forensic Auditors have also

traces of receiving cash from home-buyers, which is not accounted for in

the books of accounts. The home-buyers funds were diverted to the tune of

Rs.5,619.47 crores to the other companies through (i) payment of

professional fee to Directors for Rs.100.53 crores; (ii) bogus billing for

Rs.842.42 crores; (iii) under-valuing of flats to the tune of Rs.321.21

crores; (iv) brokerage was paid against flats which were not sold by the

company; and (v) inter-corporate deposits were given to related entities. 64. In J.P. Morgan, had also been found to routing money and in

violation of FEMA by the Forensic Auditors. As pointed out, the equity

shares were purchased at an exorbitant price to suit the requirements of

J.P. Morgan. Sudit K. Parikh & Co., Chartered Accountants and the

Auditors made the valuation on the basis of information provided by J.P. 196 Morgan Investments. Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt. Ltd. has diverted

home buyers fund and there was no need for any investment from J.P.

Morgan. It was in the knowledge of Mr. Suraj Chhabria and also in the

knowledge of J.P. Morgan that money had been diverted. 65. Rule 4 of FEMA Rules has been referred by the Forensic Auditors

pointing out that External Commerical Borrowings (ECB) can be accessed

under two routes namely Automatic Route and Approval Route. Under

Automatic Route, the ECB is not permitted to be utilized for real estate

sector, whereas under Approval Route the ECB are not permitted to be

utilized for real estate. Rs.60 crores were remitted to Amrapali Leisure

Vally Developers Pvt. Ltd. by J.P. Morgan without obtaining approval from

the competent authority so as to make investment in the form of ECB. It is

necessary to comply with the following : (d) J.P. Morgan would have to file its income tax return under Section 139 of the Income Tax Act in India due to withholding

 tax on its interest income borrower. 66. The Forensic Auditors have also reported duplicate allotment of flats.

They have provided the details of flats. Flats were alloted (residential and

commercial) to the brokers and suppliers of which list has been given.

Utilities like Milk Booth, nursery schools, senior secondary schools,

nursing homes alloted to various parties should be cancelled. 67. With respect to Sureka Group, it is pointed out in the Forensic Audit

Report that they have been a partner in various projects and were

authorised cheque signatories in various companies. It is observed that

Rs.13.44 crores were paid to Surekha Public Charitable Trust, which is a

group institution of Jotindra Steel and Tubes Limited, which amount

should be recovered from Jotindra Steel & Tubes Limited. An amount of

Rs.9,506,120 should also be recovered from Surekha Group. Funds were

routed through Synergy Freightways Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Atul Kumar was alloted

a flat which was not by way of adjustment. The amount should be

recovered or his flat may be attached. 68. With respect to R.N. Traders, an amount of Rs.2,714.02 lakhs have

been withdrawn by the management for the purpose of their own use and

should be recovered from the management. There is a billing of Rs.5.28

crores for the financial year 2015-16 in the name of Mauria Udyog Limited.

Forfeiture of the investments has also been suggested in the group

companies named by the Forensic Auditors. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 69. In the instant matter, the question of larger public importance is

involved. It is a shocking and surprising state of affairs that such large-

scale cheating has taken place and middle and poor class home buyers

have been duped and deprived of their hard-earned money and lifetime

savings and some of them had taken a loan from the bank and they are not

getting houses. Bank has made payment to the builder, owners have the

liability of making payment of amount with interest, home buyers are still

waiting for their dream houses to be completed. This is not only with

respect to the Amrapali builders that projects have not been completed as

reflected in the affidavits of Noida and Greater Noida Authorities. More

than 70% of the projects have not been completed which were initiated

way-back in the year 2008-09 and were supposed to be completed within 3

years. By the Amrapali Group, the buyers' money which has been obtained

has not been invested in the construction activities, rather it has been

diverted to a great extent. Money obtained from the banks has also not

been invested in the projects and has been diverted elsewhere to acquire

other assets. 70. There are huge liabilities of Noida and Greater Noida Authorities and

though builders were asked way back on 17.11.2017 to deposit 10% of the

amount with the Noida and Greater Noida authorities, that order was

repeated again on 18.1.2018 but still that has not been complied with.

Thereafter on the basis of joint note, this Court directed Amrapali group of 199 companies to complete the projects but the order was not complied with.

Various wrong representations were made in this Court. Developers backed

out and an application was filed to waive the condition of deposit of Rs.250

crores to start work by the Amrapali group that shows that its action was

mala fide and it never intended to complete various projects as rightly

found by the forensic auditors and that their intention was to divert the

funds and this they had done at a large scale as is borne out from their

report. 71. The question involved in the case is whether the builders and

promoters can be permitted to usurp and divert the money of home buyers

and home buyers can be left in the lurch as a silent spectator. As per the

Noida and Greater Noida authorities, in case the lease-deed is snapped, the

entire constructed buildings shall have to be demolished within 3 months.

As per the bankers, they have a charge on the property as the land has

been mortgaged to them and until and unless their amount is paid, the

builder will have no right on the property which has been constructed by

their money, and the buyers have also to wait for the satisfaction of the

dues. 72. In our opinion, if the real estate business has to survive in India, it

has to be answerable to the public and has necessarily to uphold the trust

reposed in builders/promoters. They have been paid huge amounts not

only by the home buyers but also, they have to pay a huge amount for the

public land given to them on lease by Noida and Greater Noida Authorities 200 for construction of houses. The land has been given to them by the

authorities on a concessional basis by making payment of 10% amount at

the time of allotment. The builders have to be accountable to public/home

buyers as well as the authorities and bankers. It is a matter relating to

housing needs dealing with shelter place, such an activity is of the public

importance as the real estate sector plays a pivotal role in the fulfilment of

needs of housing infrastructure. IN RE: PUBLIC TRUST DOCTRINE 73. The public trust doctrine imposes on the State and its functionaries a

mandate to take affirmative action for effective management, and the

citizens are empowered to question its ineffectiveness. The land of the

farmers had been acquired for the purpose of housing and infrastructure

needs by the State Government and handed over to the concerned

authorities for construction. They are bound to ensure that builders act in

accordance with the objective behind the acquisition of land and the

conditions on which allotment had been made. It was a duty of concerned

officials; they are not only enjoined to ensure that the rights of the home

buyers are protected but also the interests of the authorities; and bankers.

The public authorities are duty-bound to observe that the leased property

is not frittered away along with the money of the home buyers. Affirmative

action was clearly enjoined upon them not only under the statutory

provisions of various enactments but also under the public trust doctrine 201 that has evolved over the years by this Court. In Noida Entrepreneurs

Association v. Noida & Ors. (2011) 6 SCC 508, this Court has observed: 74. In Natural Resources Allocation, In re, Special Reference No.1 of 2012,

(2012) 10 SCC 1, the Court observed: 75. In Association of Unified Tele Services Providers & Ors. v. Union of

India & Ors. (2014) 6 SCC 110, the Court observed: 76. In the instant case, it is apparent that there are colossal dues of

Noida and Greater Noida Authorities. The dues of Noida Authorities as on

30.4.2019 are Rs.2191.38 crores and dues of Greater Noida authority are

stated to be Rs.3234.71 crores as on 15.1.2019. Thus, the total dues of

Noida and Greater Noida authorities are more than Rs.5426.09 crores; by

now more than Rs.5500 crores. Payments were made to Noida authorities

in 2010 and some amount in 2013; in-between or thereafter, except one or

two payments no other amount has been paid. There were several defaults

in making the payment of the premium amount, lease money, even the 203 money payable to the farmers as compensation for land acquisition has not

been paid by the builders, as is apparent from the account statement filed

on behalf of the Noida authority. Though the builder has realised from

home buyers the amount payable to authorities of Noida and Greater Noida

as a component of the price payable by them. 77. Once the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities knew very well that

there were defaults, they could not have allotted further land to the

Amrapali group without insisting for payment of its dues. Secondly, it was

not open to the authorities to permit the sub-leases of plot of land executed

by builders, thereby allowing the leaseholder to earn a huge amount

without making payment of the amount due to them. The officials of the

authorities have acted in clear breach of public trust. They have permitted

the defaulting leaseholders to earn the amount by sub-leasing its land of

which dues had not been cleared. Thus, apparently, the officials of the

authorities acted clearly in collusion with the builders and overlooked the

interest of the Authorities and home buyers while permitting the sub-leases

of plot of land to be granted. It passes comprehension how the officials of

the authorities could have permitted such sub-leases in the factual

scenario of the case when even the basic obligation to raise the

construction was not being fulfilled by the builders and they were not

paying the dues of premium, lease money etc. The action of the officials of

the authorities has the effect of causing unjust enrichment of builder from 204 the land held by the concerned authorities. It was wholly an illegal exercise

permitted. 78. We are of the considered opinion that the officials of the Noida and

Greater Noida authorities have acted clearly in a breach of public trust and

apart from that, they have failed to act as per the statutory mandate, the

regulations and the terms of the lease deed. The transfer of the plot by the

lessee was only on fulfilment of certain conditions. The dues of lessor

towards the cost of land were to be cleared in accordance with the schedule

of payment. Following provision is contained in lease deed dated 3.8.2010

entered into between Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority and

M/s. Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers Pvt. Ltd. The relevant provision

with respect to the transfer of the plot is extracted hereunder: 79. In the lease deed, the schedule of payment was fixed. Two years was

the period of the moratorium and thereafter payment was to be made on

expiry of 23.10.2012, onwards up to 23.4.2020. In case of default in

depositing the amount, the interest @ 15% compounded half yearly shall be

leviable. With respect to the extension of time, it is provided that in

exceptional circumstances, time to deposit for payment of balance due

amount may be extended by the CEO for 15% interest compounded half

yearly. The extension of time, in any case, cannot be allowed for more than

60 days for each instalment to be deposited, subject to a maximum of 3

such extensions during the entire payment schedule. The provision relating

to the extension of time is extracted hereunder: However, after making payment of premium of the plot to the
 Lessor as per schedule specified in the lease deed, permission for
 transfer of built-up flats or to part with possession of the whole or
 any part of the building constructed on the Group Housing Plot,
 shall be granted and subject to payment of transfer charges as
 per policy prevailing at the time of granting such permission of
 transfer. However, the Lessor reserves the right to reject any
 transfer application without assigning any reason. The Lessee will
 also be required to pay transfer charges as per the policy
 prevailing at the time of such permission of transfer.

 The permission to transfer the part of the built-up space will be
 granted subject to execution of tripartite sub-lease deed which shall be
 executed in a form and format as prescribed by the lessor. On the
 fulfilment of the following conditions: - lease deed shall be granted phase wise on payment of full premium
 (with interest up to the date of deposit) of the plot of that phase. b) Every sale done by the Lessee shall have to be registered before the
 physical possession of the property is handed over. c) The Lessee has obtained building occupancy certificate from the
 Planning Department, Greater Noida. d) The Lessee shall submit list of individual allottees of flats within 6
 months from the date of obtaining occupancy certificate. e) The Lessee shall have to execute sublease in favour of the individual
 allottees for the developed flats/plots in the form and format as
 prescribed by the LESSOR. f) The Sub-Lessee undertakes to put to use the premises for the
 residential use only.”

 (emphasis supplied) 81. In view of the aforesaid clause, by way of sub-lease of the plot, the

transfer of plots could not have been made by the lessee. The lessee was

required to start construction within 12 months from the date of

possession. The date of execution of lease deed shall be treated as the date

of possession. The lessee shall be required to complete the construction of

minimum 15% of the total FAR of the allotted plot as per the approved

layout plan and get occupancy/completion certificate within 3 years from

the date of execution of the lease deed. Cancellation of lease deed is also

provided in the case of violation of directions, or rules, regulations or in

case of the default on the part of the lessee for breach or violation of terms

and conditions of the registration/allotment/lease and/or non-deposit of

allotment amount. In the case of cancellation, if the plot is occupied by the

lessee, an amount equivalent to 25% of the total premium of the plot shall

be forfeited and possession of the plot will be resumed by the lessor with

structure thereon, if any, and the lessee will have no right to claim 208 compensation thereof. The provision relating in lease deed as to its

cancellation is extracted hereunder: 82. As provided by clause 6, the lease deed/allotment shall be governed

by the provisions of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 and by

the rules and/or regulations made or directions issued under the Act.

Clause 7 requires the lessor to monitor the implementation of the project.

The applicants who do not have a firm commitment to implement the

project within the time limits prescribed are advised not to avail the

allotment. In larger public interest the lessor under clause 13 is also given

a right to take back possession of the land/building by making payment at

the prevailing rate. Condition Nos.6, 7 and 13 are extracted hereunder: Applicants who do not have a firm commitment to implement the
 project within the time limits prescribed are advised not to avail the
 allotment. 13. The Lessor in larger public interest may take back the possession
 of the land/building by making payment at the prevailing rate.”

 (emphasis supplied)

 Thus, it is apparent that the officials of the concerned authorities

have not discharged their duty in accordance with the trust enjoined upon

them under aforesaid terms and conditions of lease deed, thus, by their

inaction, enabled cheating of the home buyers at a large scale. They were

well aware of what was happening on the spot. IN RE: MORTGAGE 83. With respect to the creation of mortgage deed in favour of bankers

etc., Noida Authority has submitted that every mortgage permission is

granted by the Noida Authority to the individual company of Amrapali

group wherein a provision is made that Noida Authority has first

charge/priority over all other charges including those created in favour of

banks and financial institutions. The conditions on which permission to

mortgage had been granted are as under: 84. The permissions to mortgage containing aforesaid clauses have been

placed on record along with affidavit dated 22.11.2018. It is apparent from

the second condition, subject to which permission to mortgage shall be

effective on making full payment of the premium and up to date annual

lease rent of group housing plot and after execution of the sub-lease deed

in favour of the allottee of the dwelling unit, the allottee/sub-lessee shall be

governed by the terms and conditions of allotment/lease deed of the plot to

be executed and sub-lease deed to be executed in favour of the

allottee/sub-lessee. Since at no point of time, payment of premium due had

been made and up to date annual lease rent had not been paid, no

mortgage could have been created in favour of the bank in view of specific 211 condition No.2 extracted above. Thus, when the conditional permission

granted by the authority was furnished to the bank for obtaining the loan

by promoters/builders, it was incumbent upon Bank officials to ascertain

from the concerned authorities that the premium due under the leases has

been paid and lease rent due up to date has also been paid. In order to

create a mortgage, it was necessary to obtain clear NOC in order to create

effective mortgage deed. As that has not been done so far, no mortgage in

the eye of law has been created in favour of the bank. It was not open to

the bankers to mortgage the land in view of the conditional permission to

create mortgage, the mortgage created in violation of condition cannot be

said to be effective in accordance with law as the land was owned by the

concerned authorities and the lessees had right to mortgage only subject to

fulfilment of conditions imposed by the lessor/authorities. 85. On behalf of Noida and Greater Noida authorities, it was pointed out

that they had taken steps reminding the lessees to pay dues by issuing

notices w.e.f. 2007 to 2017. In our opinion, in spite of no payment made by

lessees, failure to take action, makes their position further worse. As no

effective action had been taken and officials have permitted wilfully

contumacious violations of conditions of the lease. Right under their nose

and to their knowledge serious kind of fraud had been taking place and

officials have clearly connived with builders. In spite of construction

activity lying stand still for years together dues not being paid. As a matter

of fact, issuance of conditional NOC was with ulterior motive, there was no 212 reason to issue such a conditional permission, subject to which mortgage

could have been made. They could not have issued any conditional

permission for creation of a mortgage also without payment of amount due,

permission has been issued obviously for being misused, in collusion with

the officials of the bank and Authorities. It was incumbent upon the

concerned authorities not to issue such an NOC for a mortgage and it was

incumbent upon the bank officials in order to create a valid mortgage to

ascertain from the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities that the condition

imposed by them as condition precedent to create a mortgage had been

fulfilled and to obtain clear NOC. But that is how in illegal manner the

public money is obtained from banks for the purpose of construction

activity and then it was not used for that purpose, as found in the forensic

audit report in which it is rightly pointed out that there was a diversion of

money. The amount of loan advanced by banks was not used for the

purpose it had been obtained for a particular project and it was diverted to

other companies. It was happening not only under the nose of Noida and

Greater Noida authorities, but was directly in the knowledge and

connivance of the bankers as day-to-day transactions in the bank accounts

were pointing out that the money was being siphoned and diverted for

other purposes routinely, not being utilised for the purpose it was given.

Thus, all of them have helped in perpetuating the fraud on the home

buyers by Amrapali group of companies, its various Directors, officials and

others who have been specified in minute details in the forensic audit

reports. The case also indicates that not only the banks have failed to 213 ensure that mortgage was effected in accordance with the law, but also

they have failed to check whether money was in fact, required for the

projects and was used for purpose it was lent. By the collusion, the money

paid by home buyers to builders which included money payable to the

Authorities could be diverted, had the deposit made by home buyers been

unutilised, money due under lease would have been paid to authorities

before the creation of the mortgage. Money borrowed from bank, in fact,

was not required for completion of these projects as the money paid by the

buyers was enough for that purpose, but that was also diverted and the

money obtained from the banks was also not utilised for the purpose it was

taken and it was well within the knowledge of the bankers and Authorities

that the funds were being diverted, but they remained mute spectators.

DIVERSION OF FUNDS 86. It has been observed in extensive detail in the forensic audit report

that the Bank of Baroda, Syndicate Bank, Bank of India, Corporation Bank

did not monitor utilisation of funds and acted as a mute spectator to

diversion which was almost happening evidently in all banking

transactions. In the case of Amrapali Zodiac Developers, Bank of Baroda

has advanced an amount which was diverted immediately on receipt. The

details have been given in the forensic auditors' report extracted above.

There was no amount due as on the date of the transfer. In the case of

Amrapali Princely Estate Pvt. Ltd., the details have been given with respect

to the Syndicate Bank and Bank of India as to how immediately on receipt, 214 the funds were diverted to several parties. In the case of Amrapali Eden

Park Developers Pvt. Ltd., there was a receipt from the Corporation Bank,

and similar is the position. Immediately the funds were diverted to the

third parties as detailed in the forensic report. Details of diversion of loan

funds have been given in a tabular form in Section XII from pages 426 to

457 of the report. The submissions which have been raised on behalf of

Bank of Baroda that due observance of norms was observed before

sanctioning the loan, before disbursal and an independent Lenders'

Engineer had been appointed in order to monitor the contract. Monitoring

was done during and post disbursal of loan by Bank of Baroda. As a matter

of fact, the bank has not been able to show what steps it has taken to stop

the diversion of funds to third parties on the same date of disbursal of the

amount. The aforesaid stand of the Bank is falsified by the Forensic

Auditors’ report. 87. The transactions of Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt. Ltd. with J.P.

Morgan were clearly in order to avoid the provisions of the Companies Act .

It is apparent that Mr. Anil Mittal, Statutory Auditor, did not report his

interest and disclosed about his relatives and junior employee as Director

and shareholders. Mr. Chandan Kumar was a junior employee and Mr.

Atul Mittal was his relative. Thus, it is apparent that Rudraksha Infracity

Pvt. Ltd. was created for money laundering as aforesaid two Directors and

shareholders had no income, Rudraksha Infracity Pvt. Ltd. was

incorporated to receive funds from Mannat Buildcraft which was also 215 created by Mr. Chander Wadhwa, CFO through his close associates. After

receiving money from Mannat Buildcraft Pvt. Ltd., the same was

transferred to J.P. Morgan Investments for purchasing equity shares of

Amrapali Zodiac Pvt. Ltd. at an exorbitant price. There was no transaction

before or after these transfers of monies in the aforesaid dummy

companies. To suit the requirement of J.P. Morgan Investments, in

entirety incorrect valuation report was prepared by M/s. Sudit K. Parikh &

Co., Chartered Accountants. The methodology and procedures defined of

computation of fair market value were not followed at the time of exit. J.P.

Morgan was having full control on Amrapali Zodiac Developers and no

action could have taken as per clause 10.4.3 without investors' approval.

The profit cannot be recognised until the project is completed. Thus, there

cannot be any distributable amount as profit for distribution to J.P.

Morgan. It has also been found by the Forensic Auditors that J.P. Morgan

was in the knowledge of the fact that Amrapali Zodiac Developers had paid

the money received to other companies of Amrapali group. Advances

exceeded the limits specified in the shareholders’ agreement, but J.P.

Morgan did not ensure bringing back the money. It was accepted by Mr.

Suraj Chhabria that it was in his knowledge and that of J.P. Morgan that

the money has been diverted from shareholder’s agreement and share

subscription agreement. The valuation of the shares did not follow the

correct methodology of discounted cash flow as detailed out by the forensic

auditors. The valuation exercise was done backwardly in order to inflate 216 the value of share to siphon out the money of home buyers through J.P.

Morgan. 88. The FEMA rules prohibited the kind of transactions which were

entered into with J.P. Morgan. Rule 4 of FEMA has been clearly violated.

Master Circular No.8/2010-2011 of July 1, 2010, dealing with external

commercial borrowings and trade credits clearly provides that external

commercial borrowings are not permitted to be utilised for real estate

business under the automatic route. The term real estate excludes the

development of the integrated township. It was not a case of development of

the integrated township. Even if it is taken to be a case of integrated

township as submitted on behalf of J.P. Morgan, then also for approval

route, hedging is required as pointed out by the Forensic Auditors in their

report and borrowers had to submit their report about the signing of loan

agreement with the lender for obtaining Loan Registration Number. In case

J.P. Morgan had invested in the form of ECB, following would have been

the requirements: (i) obtaining Loan Registration Number from the RBI; (ii)

file ECB-2 returns every month to the RBI, (iii) to pay tax on interest

payment to J.P. Morgan; and (iv) to file income tax return. We are in

agreement with the findings of the forensic auditors in this regard. It is

clear that it was a methodology adopted by the group to siphon out the

funds of the home buyers in violation of the FEMA rules and the

notifications and by the creation of dubious companies for which

appropriate action is warranted by the concerned authorities. 217 89. The report of Forensic Audit also indicates that the Company has

received a sum of Rs.140 crores during the financial year 2012-13 from

IPFFI Singapore PTE Limited under Foreign Direct Investment Scheme. As

per FEMA Rules, this amount was to be invested in real estate construction

projects only. 90. The IPFFI Singapore PTE Limited which was incorporated on

20.5.2011, entered into a Share Subscription Agreement with ASCPL on

23.8.2012 and paid a sum of Rs.140 crores to ASCPL in the following

manner on 7.8.2012: (b) INR 55 crores received in BOB Escrow Account on 7.8.2012.

 Thus, a total sum of Rs.140 crores was received in Axis Bank. The

amount was received in Axis Bank of INR 85 crores was transferred to

Amrapali Centurian Park Pvt. Ltd. in three proportion. On 7.8.2012, Rs.5

crores were transferred. On 8.8.2012, an amount of Rs.50 crores was

transferred and on 18.8.2012, Rs.30 crores were transferred. The ACPPL

on receiving Rs.85 crores allotted equity shares worth INR 85 lakhs to

ASCPL and balance INR 84.15 crores were treated as share premium

account. There is no valuation report available as to how the share

premium of INR 84.15 crores had been calculated. This transfer of fund by

ASCPL to ACPPL is termed as absolutely violative of FDI Rules and 218 agreement. With respect to Rs.55 crores routed from IPFFI Singapore in

the Escrow Account of Bank of Baroda, Escrow Account was transferred

from 8.8.2012 to 28.9.2012 in the account of Bank of Baroda and used for

payment of term loan instalments of OBC and Bank of Maharashtra for

repayment of their term loan instalment. This money was not meant for

payment of term loan instalment as per FDI Rules. It was to be used in the

construction. 91. The ASCPL did not use the money for the project which was received

from IPFII Singapore but transferred Rs.85 crores to ACPPL and Rs.55

crores to repay bank loan instalments and repay the outstanding creditors

provided for in the books and standing in the books. The said payments

have rightly been held by Auditors to be in contravention of the FDI norms

and rules and for which the money was brought in India. 92. From 2013 to 2015, ASCPL has paid interest of Rs.58.81 crores @ 17

percent, which is a highly abnormal rate. A sum of Rs.14.41 crores was

paid on 31.3.2013. Likewise, on 31.3.2014, Rs.22.20 crores were paid and

on 31.3.2015, another amount of Rs.22.20 crores was paid. The violations

were made with the knowledge of the IPFII Singapore and they were in

connivance with the ASCPL. 93. The stand of the Bank of Baroda that they have independently

appointed Lender’s Engineer is of no avail. There was negligence on the

part of Bank of Baroda and merely proceeding before the Court in 2017 to

recover the amount is not going to serve the purpose. More so, in view of 219 the finding of the Forensic Audit that there was no necessity of obtaining

the loan from the Bankers as Amrapali Group had sufficient money from

the home buyers, which has also been diverted and has not been utilised in

the construction activities. Other assets have been created with the help of

the same and the borrowings have been used in order to siphon off the

money by making payment of some unusual amount not only to J.P.

Morgan, but also to IPFII Singapore in violation of the FEMA Rules and FDI

Rules as found by the Auditors in the respective cases. 94. It was submitted that the Bank of Baroda has obtained the deed of

corporate guarantee inter alia from Ultra Homes Construction Ltd, Rinku

Clothing Creations Pvt. Ltd., Jotindra Steels and Tube Limited and

Vidyashree Buildcon Pvt. Ltd. RoC search report and CA certificate had

also been obtained. Lender's Legal Counsel Report dated 2.3.2012

verifying the validity and enforceability of financing documents and

creation of securing on assets of ASCPL is also on record. Jotindra Steels

and Tubes Limited issued a corporate guarantee, it was absolutely

improper for the Bank of Baroda to discharge the bank guarantee without

payment of amount in view of the fact that Jotindra Steels and Tubes

Limited was not ready to subscribe to the capital was no ground for Bank

of Baroda to discharge Jotindra Steels and Tubes Limited. Once guarantee

has been given and in view of the finding recorded by the Forensic Auditors

as to the nature of bid by the Jotindra Steels and Tubes Limited and other

persons, it is apparent that action was illegal. 220 95. The leases had been granted by Noida and Greater Noida Authorities

subject to the provisions contained in U.P. Industrial Area Development

Act, 1976 . Section 13 of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976

deals with imposition of penalty and mode of recovery of arrears, which

states that where any transferee makes any default in the payment of any

consideration money or instalment thereof or any other amount due on

account of the transfer of any site or building by the Authority or any rent

due to the Authority in respect of any lease or where any transferee or

occupier makes any default in payment of any amount of fee or tax levied

under the Act, in addition to the amount of arrears, a further sum not

exceeding that amount shall be recovered from the transferee or occupier

by way of penalty. Under Section 13-A, any amount payable to the

Authority under Section 13 shall constitute a charge over the property and

may be recovered as arrears of land revenue or by attachment and sale of

property in the manner provided under the provisions of Uttar Pradesh

Municipal Corporations Act, 1959 (Act no.2 of 1959). Section 14 provides

for the resumption of any site or building and forfeiture of whole or any

part of the money if any paid in respect thereof. “14. (1) In the case of non-payment of consideration money or any
 instalment thereof on account of the transfer by the Authority or
 any site or building or in case of any breach of any condition of
 such transfer or breach of any rules or regulations made under this
 Act, the Chief Executive Officer may resume the site or building so
 transferred and may further forfeit the whole or any part of the
 money if any paid in respect thereof. (2) Where the Chief Executive Officer order resumption of any site or
 building under sub-section (1) the Collector may, on his requisition,
 cause possession thereof to be delivered to him and may for that
 purpose use or cause to be used such force as may be necessary.” 221 96. The Authorities have failed to take action under the aforesaid

provisions. The Authorities have also failed to perform the statutory duty

cast upon them to take prompt action. Merely filing of the case against

Unitech Builders by way of petition in this Court did not furnish any

grounds to the Authorities to remain silent spectator on the perpetration of

fraud committed on the home buyers by Amrapali Group of Companies.

Public trust doctrine requires an affirmative action, which was envisaged

not only statutorily but under the Scheme also. They were required to

ensure that projects were completed within the stipulated period,

otherwise, the very purpose of the grant would stand frustrated and

colossal loss of public money. Amrapali Group did not pay even the

amount due to be paid to the landowners on the part of land acquisition, it

did not pay premium annual lease amount interest to Authorities. They

have violated every condition, but still, Authorities were bent upon to

condone everything. This reflects absolute dereliction of duty cast upon

the Authorities. 97. The Noida and Greater Noida Authorities and the Bankers have

permitted diversion of funds of home-buyers and the possession of other

assets by Amrapali Group. The buyers' money had been diverted, which

was meant for construction on payment of dues of Authorities in case they

were paid timely by the Amrapali Group to the Authorities and to the

Banks substantively liability would have been cleared. But by their

inaction and rather conniving, the buyers were cheated by the Amrapali 222 Group. Authorities did not object when mortgages were effected in favour

of Banks in violation of conditions. Bankers could not have violated

conditions. Now, whatever complete/incomplete structures are there, the

Authorities are claiming that buyers have no right and they have the first

charge on the structure as they have to recover the amount, only thereafter

if anything is left out, can be paid to the buyers. In case the submission is

accepted, it would amount to playing further fraud upon the fraud. It was

incumbent upon the Authorities as well as the Banks to prevent the fraud.

Now, if Banks, as well as the Authorities, are permitted to recover the

amount from the home-buyers' investment , in that case , it would be

equally unjust and would be against the conscience of the law and nothing

would be left for buyers not even a brick and the structures have come up

by investing their money. Law never permits unjust gain based upon

fraud. The principle “fraud vitiates” is clearly attracted and such a

transaction would become unenforceable and would be against the public

trust doctrine. Real estate business can never prosper in case of breach of

trust, bankers, Authorities in connivance and the builders are permitted to

take away the innocent home-buyers' money without being accountable to

their action/inaction. From tomorrow huge money will be collected from

home buyers by the builder, banks would act in connivance and the

Authorities sleep in slumber, permitting diversion of money of

buyers/bankers, etc., and the home-buyers will be paying the dues of all

concerned without investment of a penny by builder and rather they are

diverting the money of the home-buyers in connivance with Authorities and 223 Bankers and they are left without dream homes. If that is a factual

scenario, no Court can permit such fraud to be perpetrated. Since “fraud

vitiates”, the bounden duty of the Court is to act as parens patria not only

to save the home-buyers but also to ensure that they are not cheated. 98. Authorities and Bankers have not acted in furtherance of public

interest and failed to perform duties enjoined upon them. The kind of

fraud that has taken place not only in Amrapali Group of Companies but at

large as more than 70 percent of the various projects have not come up, is

alarming to the Courts to take affirmative steps with the direction to

prevent such frauds, restore the money of home-buyers and to punish

incumbents responsible for such act. At the same time to ensure that

buildings are completed. It cannot be denied that lifetime savings of home-

buyers have been invested for purchase of a house with the faith and trust

they have given the money. The scheme of the Government is to promote

the real estate for which land had been acquired, even poor farmers have

not been paid the compensation. The land allotted at throw away prices of

10%, the allotment premium has not been paid and in an illegal manner

plots have been allotted on huge amount by builders is another fraud in

collusion with Authorities. 99. How buyers get their houses and can be suitably compensated for the

delay that has taken place in the matter and they are left at the juncture

where the builder has diverted the funds for the last several years and no

construction activities have taken place. For several years, no accounts 224 were maintained from 2015 till date and a lot of money had been

withdrawn from the Banks. The orders passed by this Court on

22.11.2017 to deposit 10 percent of the amount was not complied with by

the Amrapali Group. Thereafter again on 17.5.2018, this Court permitted

them to carry forward the project, but they did not do so and were not

ready to deposit the amount of Rs.250 crores to show their bona fide to

undertake construction activity and efforts had been made to wriggle out of

assurances on which basis this Court had passed the orders. 100. On behalf of Authorities provisions contained in Section 13 of the

Uttar Pradesh Apartment (Promotion of Construction, Ownership, and

Maintenance) Act, 2010 has been pressed into service. It is submitted that

transfer cannot be made in favour of home-buyer without executing the

Transfer Deed. As per Section 5 of Act of 2010, flat buyers become entitled

to ownership and possession of the Apartment and undivided interest in

the common areas as specified in the deed of the Apartment. It is further

submitted that tripartite sub-lease deed has to be entered into in order to

transfer ownership to the home-buyers, consisting of Authorities, builders

and home-buyers and before that is done, it is necessary for builder to

obtain the completion certificate on fulfilment of certain conditions. The

main objection raised by the counsel is with respect to the issuance of

completion certificate is default of the payment of amount with interest to

be made under lease and relating to fire safety. It is also pointed out that

completion certificate is necessary to be issued, the issuance of the same 225 would depend upon payment of the dues and the Authorities, later on, will

have no mechanism to recover the dues, once registered conveyance deed

is executed in favour of home-buyers. According to Authorities, the buyers

may contend that they have paid the entire consideration to the builder,

who has defaulted in making the payment for the flat and the privity of

making the payment is between the concerned Authorities and the builder.

It is also submitted on behalf of Authorities that in part completion also,

the certificate can be issued against the part payment received, however,

the completion certificate would be issued in the same proportion minus 10

percent so that financial interest of the Authorities is protected. Sub-lease

deed would be executed as per the present policy up to 90 percent of the

proportion in which part payment has been received. 101. In our opinion, in the ordinary course, there cannot be any dispute

with respect to the aforesaid propositions. However, in the instant case,

the facts indicate that 9000 families are residing for the last several years

out of the sheer necessity of shelter place and they have not been provided

with electricity connections and other facilities due to non-issuance of

occupancy certificate by the concerned authorities. Most of them have paid

the entire amount to the builders. The amount outstanding as against

home buyers have to be used in completion of building. The payment to be

made to concerned Authorities had also been collected by the builder from

home buyers as component of price of flat, but has not been deposited with

the concerned Authorities and the home buyers’ money had been diverted, 226 which was more than the dues of the Authorities and the Banks taken

together. Had timely action been taken by them no amount could have

been diverted and the position would have been different as it stands

today. However, since we have attached various other properties where

home buyers’ money has been invested, the rights of the Authorities as well

as bankers to get the money recovered from the other properties of the

builder Amrapali Group/Directors and where they have invested money

and belonging to the guarantors in the various transactions. However, at

the same time for want of payment to Authorities and Bankers by the

builder under these facts and circumstances, it would be absolutely

improper for the Authorities to deny issuance of occupancy or completion

certificate, especially on the ground of non-payment of dues. As per the

interim orders, we have ensured that fire safety devices are fitted in

buildings at appropriate places wherever necessary and in case it is lacking

at any place we have to ensure that they are fitted and there are no other

violations pointed out in the construction so far made. Thus, the

concerned Authorities have to issue occupancy certificate as well as

completion certificate with respect to the projects in which home buyers

residing without insisting for the payment of their dues. This Court has to

monitor the payment of the dues to the Authorities as well as the Bankers,

from guarantors and other proprietors. The innocent buyers cannot be

made to suffer for no fault on their part. 102. Once Authorities have allowed 9000 home-buyers to occupy the

premises without terminating the lease on the ground that occupation is

illegal. Obviously, builders have put them in possession, they are not the

encroachers and they have invested their valuable saving and have no

other shelter place to live. They cannot be deprived of their houses and

cannot be left without basic necessities of life like water, electricity, etc.

The concerned Authorities are responsible to provide electricity, water, and

all other basic amenities to buyers as they have the right to occupy the

premises. In the peculiar facts of the case, we have directed the

Authorities to provide basic necessities forthwith. We also direct the

Central Government and Government of Uttar Pradesh to ensure that

everything is done to protect the interest of the home-buyers obviously

without obliging the builders. Wherever we seek any favour for home-

buyers, we see that defrauding parties i.e., promoters/builders are further

obliged by making certain concessions by the Government that would

amount to perpetrating further fraud and unjust enrichment of builder.

The case poses challenge to the law enforcement agencies to act in tandem

to book such culprits. 103. When there are defaults galore, creation of fake and dummy

companies in an unbridled manner, it passes comprehension that how the

Statutory Auditor has failed to discharge the duty cast upon him and the

officials of the Amrapali Group also shared hard earned money of home-

buyers in an illegal manner by siphoning it off. Directors had obtained 228 salaries without doing anything. Money is diverted and siphoned off in

other projects. Office junior employees, peons and relatives etc. were

inducted as Directors just to defraud the home-buyers of their money and

to siphon it out. Without material being supplied, a large amount of money

had been paid by way of forge purchases as a method to divert money even

through authorised signatories and the Companies of the relatives, family

members and relations of the Directors and Guarantors also. In the case

fraud is to such large extent, it is difficult to capsulise the facts in a narrow

compass, for that when we see the report and good job done by the

Forensic Auditors to unearthed the fraud. They have gone into minute

details forensically and done their job extremely well, due to which serious

kind of fraud has been unearthed with the involvement of so many persons

as referred to by them. We direct the concerned Authorities to look into the

violation of the FEMA and FDI norms as projected by the Forensic Auditors

in their report and to submit progress report in this Court.

IN RE: RERA 104. The Bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha on 10.3.2016 and in the Lok

Sabha on 15.3.2016. The Bill intended to standardise business practices

and transactions in the real estate sector. It intends to ensure consumer

protection. It intends to regulate transaction related to both residential

and commercial projects. The Statement of Objects and Reasons are as

under: 105. It is apparent from the aims and objectives that Act ensures greater

accountability towards consumers and significantly reduce fraud and

delays. Accountability standards have been laid down where duties cast

upon promotors as well as the effort has been made to make consumer also

responsible. 106. Before coming to the rival submission with respect to RERA, we deem

it appropriate to note certain provisions. Common areas have been defined

under Section 2(n) . The apartment has been defined under Section 2(e) . Section 2(k) defines carpet area, whereas Section 2(q) defines completion

certificate. Completion certificate to mean that certificate issued by

competent authority certifying that the project has been developed

according to the sanctioned plan, layout plan and specifications as

approved by the competent authority. Occupancy certificate has been

defined in Section 2(zf) which states that certificate issued by the

competent authority permitting occupation of any building which has

provision for civic infrastructures such as water, sanitation, and electricity. Section 2(zk) defines promoter as a person who constructs or causes to be

constructed an independent building or a building consisting of

apartments or converts an existing building for the purpose of selling to

other persons; a person who develops land into a project; any development

authority or any other public body; an apex State level co-operative

housing society etc.; any other person who acts himself as a builder,

coloniser, contractor, developer, estate developer or by any other name;

and such other person who constructed any building or apartment for sale

to general public. 107. It is provided under Section 3 that no promoter shall advertise,

market, book, sell or offer for sale any plot, apartment or building in any

real estate project or part of it without registration with the Real Estate 232 Regulatory Authority established under the Act. The provisions of the Act

have also been made applicable to the ongoing projects on the date of

commencement of the Act and for which completion certificate has not

been issued, the promoter shall make an application to the Authority for

registration of said project within three months from the date of

commencement of the Act. The projects of Amrapali Group have registration under the RERA is

an admitted fact. The provisions of the RERA are applicable is also not in

dispute. 108. Section 4 requires the application to be filed with specified documents

for the purpose of registration. As per Section 4(2)(l)(D) , 70 percent of the

amount realised for the real estate project from the allottees, from time to

time, shall be deposited in a separate account to be maintained in a

scheduled bank to cover the cost of construction and the land cost and

shall be used only for that purpose and the promotor shall withdraw only

to the proportion of the percentage of completion of the project. The

accounts have to be audited in every six months and chartered accountant

has to certify that amounts collected for a particular project have been

utilised for that project and the withdrawal has been in compliance with

the proportion of the percentage of the completion of the project. The

provisions of Section 4(2)(l)(D) is extracted hereunder: 109. When we consider the provisions in the instant case, it was necessary

to deposit the amount in the account. In the year 2015, the RERA was in

contemplation and certain provisions came into force on 1.5.2016 and

some more Sections i.e., 3 to 19, 40, 59 to 70 and 79 and 80 came into

force with effect from 1.5.2017. 110. A blatant violation of the provisions of RERA has been done by the

Amrapali Group. Since RERA contemplates timely completion of projects

once registration has been granted under Section 5 and extension of

registration under Section 6 , it is only in the event of force majeure in case 234 there is no default on the part of the promoter, registration can be extended

in aggregate for the period not exceeding one year. Force majeure shall

mean a case of war, flood, drought, fire, cyclone, earthquake or any other

calamity caused by nature. The registration granted under Section 5 is

valid for a period declared by the promoter. Section 7 provides that the

Authority may on receipt of a complaint or suo motu or on the

recommendation of the competent authority revoke the registration granted

under Section 5 in case promoter makes default in doing anything required

by or under the Act or the rules or the regulation made thereunder; the

promoter violates any of the terms of approval given by the competent

authority; the promoter is involved in any kind of unfair practice or

irregularities. It is also independently provided that in case the promoter

indulges in any fraudulent practices, the registration can be revoked.

Upon revocation of the registration, the promoter shall be debarred from

accessing the website in relation to that project under Section 7(4)(a) .

Under Section 7(4)(b) , the Authority shall facilitate the remaining

development works to be carried out in accordance with provisions of Section 8 . Provisions of Section 7 is extracted hereunder: Explanation.— For the purposes of this clause, the term
 "unfair practice means" a practice which, for the purpose of
 promoting the sale or development of any real estate project
 adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice
 including any of the following practices, namely:—

 (A) the practice of making any statement, whether in
 writing or the visible representation which,— (i) falsely represents that the services are of a
 particular standard or grade; (ii) represents that the promoter has approval or
 affiliation which such promoter does not have; (iii) makes a false or misleading representation
 concerning the services; (B) the promoter permits the publication of any
 advertisement or prospectus whether in any newspaper
 or otherwise of services that are not intended to be
 offered; (d) the promoter indulges in any fraudulent practices.

(2) The registration granted to the promoter under section 5 shall
not be revoked unless the Authority has given to the promoter not
less than thirty days notice, in writing, stating the grounds on
which it is proposed to revoke the registration, and has considered
any cause shown by the promoter within the period of that notice
against the proposed revocation. (3) The Authority may, instead of revoking the registration under
sub-section (1), permit it to remain in force subject to such further
terms and conditions as it thinks fit to impose in the interest of the
allottees, and any such terms and conditions so imposed shall be
binding upon the promoter. (4) The Authority, upon the revocation of the registration,— (a) shall debar the promoter from accessing its website in
 relation to that project and specify his name in the list of
 defaulters and display his photograph on its website and also
 inform the other Real Estate Regulatory Authority in other
 States and Union territories about such revocation or
 registration; (b) shall facilitate the remaining development works to be
 carried out in accordance with the provisions of section 8 ; (c) shall direct the bank holding the project back account,
 specified under subclause (D) of clause (I) of sub-section (2) of section 4 , to freeze the account, and thereafter take such
 further necessary actions, including consequent de-freezing of
 the said account, towards facilitating the remaining 236 development works in accordance with the provisions of section 8 ; (d) may, to protect the interest of allottees or in the public
 interest, issue such directions as it may deem necessary.” 111. It is clear that RERA intends for completion of the project in case any

fraud is committed by the promoter and the activity is not completed, the

home-buyers cannot be left in lurch, allowing the prayer on behalf of

Bankers as well as by the Authorities would amount to unfair treatment of

home buyers in the facts of this case. It is too late for them to submit that

home buyer has no rights in the teeth of the provisions contained in the

RERA, which intends to prevent fraud. 112. Once registration lapses on non-completion of project within the time

stipulated or it is revoked the consequence ensue as enumerated in Section

8 of RERA, the Authority is enjoined upon the duty to consult with the

appropriate Government to take such action as it may deem including the

carrying out of the remaining development works by competent authority

or by the association of allottees or any other manner as may be

determined by the Authority. The development work has to be completed

and cannot be left in between. Section 8 reads thus; “8. Obligation of Authority consequent upon lapse of or on
 revocation of registration.- Upon lapse of the registration or on
 revocation of the registration under this Act, the Authority, may
 consult the appropriate Government to take such action as it may
 deem fit including the carrying out of the remaining development
 works by competent authority or by the association of allottees or in
 any other manner, as may be determined by the Authority: clause (C) of clause (I) of sub-section (2) of section 4 .

 (4) The allottee shall be entitled to claim the refund of amount paid
 along with interest at such rate as may be prescribed and
 compensation in the manner as provided under this Act, from the
 promoter, if the promoter fails to comply or is unable to give
 possession of the apartment, plot or building, as the case may be, in
 accordance with the terms of agreement for sale or due to
 discontinuance of his business as a developer on account of
 suspension or revocation of his registration under the provisions of
 this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder.

 (5) The allottee shall be entitled to have the necessary documents
 and plans, including that of common areas, after handing over the
 physical possession of the apartment or plot or building as the case
 may be, by the promoter. (6) Every allottee, who has entered into an agreement for sale to
 take an apartment, plot or building as the case may be, under section 13 , shall be responsible to make necessary payments in the
 manner and within the time as specified in the said agreement for
 sale and shall pay at the proper time and place, the share of the
 registration charges, municipal taxes, water and electricity charges,
 maintenance charges, ground rent, and other charges, if any.

 (7) The allottee shall be liable to pay interest, at such rate as may be
 prescribed, for any delay in payment towards any amount or
 charges to be paid under sub-section (6). (8) The obligations of the allottee under sub-section (6) and the
 liability towards interest under sub-section (7) may be reduced
 when mutually agreed to between the promoter and such allottee.

 (9) Every allottee of the apartment, plot or building as the case may
 be, shall participate towards the formation of an association or
 society or cooperative society of the allottees, or a federation of the
 same. (10) Every allottee shall take physical possession of the apartment,
 plot or building as the case may be, within a period of two months
 of the occupancy certificate issued for the said apartment, plot or
 building, as the case may be. (11) Every allottee shall participate towards registration of the
 conveyance deed of the apartment, plot or building, as the case may
 be, as provided under sub-section (1) of section 17 of this Act.” 119. Certain rights and duties as well as the liabilities to pay interest in

case of default on the part of allottees are also provided in the provisions

contained in Section 19 . Chapter V provides for Real Estate Regulatory 241 Authority, whereas Chapter VI deals with the Central Advisory Council.

The provisions relating to Real Estate Appellate Tribunal are provided in

Chapter VII. Chapter VIII contains provisions relating to offences,

penalties, and adjudication and Chapter IX deals with finance, accounts,

audits, and reports. 120. It is apparent that RERA intends protection of home-buyers and aims

at completion of the buildings. The buildings have to be completed, for

that, we are required to pass orders. We have already assigned the task to

NBCC for completion of buildings as the promoters/builders have failed to

complete the building within the time fixed and the time which could have

been extended. Now, more than 10 years have passed and buyers were

given the assurances that they would get flats within three years period by

the promoter/builder. The maximum time fixed in RERA has also expired

and extension could not have been beyond 1 year. 121. It is clear that common areas as provided under Section 17 have to be

ultimately handed over to the Association of Allottees or the Competent

Authority as the case may be. Thus, any sub-lease, alienation or transfer

affected by the promoter of the common areas as defined in the RERA and

otherwise reserved under the plan shall be void and inoperative. 122. As the basic obligations have not been complied with by the

promoters, they cannot also be entitled to FAR. It was pointed out on

behalf of Authorities that permissible FAR is 2.75, whereas it has been 242 wrongly mentioned and worked out at 3.50 by the Amrapali Group. In the

instant case, we find that there is serious kind of fraud by the promotors as

such they cannot be said to be entitled to avail the FAR to utilise it or to

alienate and more so when they have failed to complete the projects and

pay the dues. 123. It is also apparent from the provisions of the Act of 1976 as well as

RERA and also the case set up by the Authorities that partial occupation

certificate can also be issued. The completion certificate can be issued

partially also as per the provisions of Uttar Pradesh Apartment (Promotion

of Construction, Ownership, and Maintenance) Act, 2010 . The main

obstacle is said to be non-deposit of the amount which may be ordered to

be paid, for that we may clarify in the peculiar facts and circumstances of

the case, it has to be secured and recovered by way of selling other

attached properties and the one, which have been created out of the

diverted funds of the home-buyers and property of guarantors etc. The

banks' borrowings have to be taken care of in a similar manner. The

money payable to the Authorities had been diverted and huge amount of

buyers’ money had not been invested in the projects neither any part of the

money of bank borrowings, in fact, were spent in the construction as found

by the Forensic Auditors. The promoters are held accountable for the

diversion of the money paid by the buyers as component of price of flats

even on account of payment to Authorities. 124. There appears to be non-issuance of the completion certificate,

whereas the buildings are being occupied, we direct issue of completion

certificate. This Court has to monitor the payment of dues of the

Authorities and Banks and that outstanding are not going to create hurdle

in the execution of the registered document/conveyance deed in favour of

home buyers. It has to be executed by the concerned Authorities as well as

by the Court Receiver and by the home buyers. The amount which is due

on the part of home buyers has to be deposited in the account, which has

been opened, in the UCO Bank by this Court. It has to be utilised firstly

for the purpose of completion of the buildings and for providing other

facilities and the home buyers of incomplete projects also have to deposit

the outstanding amount on their part in the aforesaid account opened in

the UCO Bank and out of that amount, it has to be disbursed as per the

orders to be passed by this Court for the purpose of construction and

outstanding if any, shall be used for the purpose of payment of

compensation to home buyers for the period of delay as per the agreement

or as may be determined ultimately and other dues. 125. With respect to percentage of profit of NBCC, we fix it at 8 percent.

As it is a Government Undertaking, NBCC has to ensure that DPR is

prepared reasonably and the work to be completed as expeditiously as

possible. 126. Learned senior counsel on behalf of Bank of Baroda submitted that

Amrapali Group as per the conditions of the lease deed executed by the 244 Noida Authority had the right to mortgage the land with the prior

permission of the authority for raising loans for the purpose of financing

investment in the project. No doubt the lease deed contained a stipulation

as to mortgage with prior permission but no clear-cut permission had been

obtained from Noida authority. Noida authority has clearly stated as rider

that until and unless the entire due premium is paid along with lease

money due, no mortgage can be effected. The stand of the authority is clear

that without payment of land dues no mortgage could be effected. Thus, in

fact in the eye of the law no mortgage could be created as there was no

permission to mortgage unless the dues were paid and thus the bank could

not have mortgaged the property before clearance of the dues of the Noida

Authority, and secondly, the mortgage was permissible for the purpose of

financing the investment in the project. As a matter of fact, when this was

the stipulation, it was the banker's duty to ensure that money made

available was invested in the project. 127. The Forensic Auditors’ report makes it apparent that Bankers have

failed to ensure and oversee that the money was invested in the projects. It

was diverted elsewhere as rightly found by the Forensic Auditors. Thus, no

charge can be said to have been created by bank loans on the projects as

the money, in fact, it has not been used in the projects as such home

buyers cannot be saddled with liability and also the projects. Even what

was paid by the home buyers, had not been used in the projects and

stands diverted. There was, in fact, no necessity for raising the loans from 245 the bank. The money borrowed from banks was used to create other assets

worth thousands of crores. Thus, the banks can realise their money from

those assets and from guarantors and not from the investment of home

buyers, not from the buildings in which loans granted by banks have not

been invested, which have been erected partially or some are at the nascent

stage, for which hard-earned money has been paid by the home buyers.

Home buyers are not direct party to the bank loan, thus it was the duty of

the bankers and Noida authorities, if they wanted to impose their charge,

to ensure that no fraud takes place and money is invested in the projects

for the purpose for which it has been taken not only the money paid by the

home buyers but obtained from the banks and due to be paid to Noida

authorities, is not usurped illegally by promoter/builder. Though it was

realised as part of the component of the price of flat from the home buyers,

by the promoters/builders its illegal diversion was permitted by Amrapali

Group in connivance with the officers of the authorities and the bank.

Thus, the very condition of investment in the project by bankers, subject to

which the mortgage was permissible, had been violated. Thus, it cannot be

said that any charge of the banks has been created on the projects. The

charge would be on the property which has been purchased/created by

dubious methods. It would be inequitable to fasten the charge against the

investment made by the home buyers whereas they have not been

benefited and rather have been cheated by the promoters for which

bankers, as well as authorities, have to share the blame. We cannot 246 perpetuate another fraud on the innocent home buyers in facts of the case

of fastening liability of amounts payable to Authorities and Bankers. 128. Learned senior counsel on behalf of the Bank of Baroda, also

submitted that the home buyers are not secured creditors, as such they

have no right over secured creditors. While making the aforesaid

submissions the provisions of RERA have been ignored. Though they may

not be a secured creditor, they have a right to be treated in accordance

with the law, fairly and they cannot be subjected to a fraudulent action by

the promoters, that too in connivance with the bankers and officials of the

Noida and Greater Noida authorities. Even otherwise, in such a situation

the court has to come to their rescue and protect their interests, and it is

the duty of the court to ensure that buyers get flats and development work

is completed as intended under the RERA and the flats are handed over to

home buyers after completion. In case the fraud is permitted to be

perpetrated on the home buyers, the very purpose of enactment of RERA

would stand defeated. 129. No doubt about it as submitted on behalf of Amrapali group of

companies, that the provisions of RERA are for protecting the interests of

promoters also. No doubt about it that the RERA intends to protect the

interests of the promoters and home buyers both. However, in the instant

case, we have given the opportunity to the promoters to deposit the 10% of

the amount in December 2017 and January 2018 but orders have met with

non-compliance with all impunity. Thereafter on the assurance of the 247 Amrapali Group that it would undertake the construction work and a joint

plan was submitted after great wastage of time and energy and then order

dated 17.5.2018 was passed that was also not complied with. It was passed

on a condition that a sum of Rs.250 crores to be deposited which was also

not deposited by the Amrapali group to show its bona fide. The Group

never intended right from the beginning to complete the construction work,

has been rightly observed by Forensic Auditors. Thereafter, we have

assigned the work to the NBCC. But at the same time, the effort has been

made by Amrapali Group/ its Directors to sell the property which has been

created by diversion of home buyers’ funds. Incorrect facts have been

stated and suppressions have been made in various affidavits filed in this

Court that the certain properties are not encumbered. Various applications

are being filed one after the other by the encumbered holders with respect

to several properties that they have the charge over the said property. 130. That apart, several attached properties have been put to sale by DRT

under the orders of this Court. In most of the cases, no buyers have turned

up and/or the price offered by forming a cartel are too low. The property

cannot be sold at throw away price. For example, in the case of a hospital

situated at Noida, the very group of doctors wanted to purchase, it who are

running it, at a paltry sum by forming a cartel. Aforesaid is one of the

examples of cartel formation that is how Amrapali group is instrumental in

not allowing the properties to be sold. There appears to be some invisible

hand holding buyers out and even the bankers are not coming up to 248 finance the purchasers, is the genuine grievance pointed out at the Bar. Be

that as it may. Entire gamut of facts indicates the contumacious conduct of

Amrapali Group, proper and correct disclosures on oath have not been

made, even encumbrances are not being specified clearly in spite of

repeated orders passed by us. They have sold several valuable properties

during pendency of petitions as pointed out by the Forensic Audit Report.

In the aforesaid circumstances, the submission raised on behalf of

Amrapali group that under the provisions of the RERA their interest should

be protected. In our opinion, considering the serious kind of fraud

unearthed on the forensic audit, formation of dummy companies, violation

of norms of foreign investment, violation of FEMA, siphoning off the money

of home buyers, making payment of dividend without profits and a

methodology had been devised of valuing the shares on an unreasonable

higher basis so as to siphon out the money of the home buyers to J.P.

Morgan etc. The creation of a large number of assets with the help of

money of the home buyers. The Forensic Audit unfolds the true story of

Amrapali Group. Right from 2015, no construction activity has taken

place. Account books had not been maintained and money has been

transferred continuously. No audit was made. Money was taken out from

banks, and fake purchases have been made. Thus, they are not at all

entitled for any indulgence under the provisions of the RERA. In view of

their unholy conduct, defying description, their contumacious fraudulent

conduct totally disentitles them and they are required to be dealt with as

sternly as possible so as to make it exemplary one that such fraudulent 249 actions do not recur in future, in real estate business in India. We are not

a country in which Courts will permit such action and permit a person to

go scot-free. 131. The agreement initially executed in favour of home buyers to

purchase flats may not create any right in the property in praesenti, it will

be only on the execution of the registered document that title is going to be

perfected, but investment in project is only of home buyers. In this case,

as they have paid money invested in projects, it is for the courts to do

complete justice between the parties and to protect the investment so made

and interests of home buyers and to ensure that they get the perfect title

and the fruits of their hard earned money and lifetime savings invested in

the projects. 132. On behalf of Bank of Baroda, learned senior counsel submitted that

the agreement of promoter/builder with home buyers is unregistered as

such, no right has been created in the immovable property in view of the

provisions contained in section 49 of the Registration Act. The submission

ignores and overlooks the provisions of RERA which intends to prevent

such frauds on home buyers and ensure completion of projects and that of

the agreement between promoters and buyers. There are various rights

under the agreement as well as under the RERA. The agreement entered

into at the time of allotment is the basis of the investment in the projects

made by home buyers, it cannot be said to be a scrap of paper. It is their

valuable investment which is required to be protected and cannot be 250 permitted to be taken away by builder or secured creditors in an illegal

manner. The provisions of section 17 of the Registration Act no doubt

provide that a document of title requires compulsory registration, no doubt

registered document has to be executed that also has to be taken care of by

the Court so as to protect the interest of home buyers. 133. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Bank of Baroda

urged that by virtue of the provisions contained in section 11(4)(g) of the

RERA Act, it is the duty of the promoter to pay all outgoings until he

transfers the physical possession of the real estate project to the allottee or

the association of allottees, which he has collected from the allottees, for

the payment of outgoings, including the land cost, ground rent, municipal

or other legal taxes, charges for water or electricity, maintenance charges,

including the mortgage loan and interest on mortgages or other

encumbrances and such other liabilities payable to competent authorities,

banks and financial institutions, which are related to the project. The two

expressions of the provisions of Section 11(4)(g) are significant. Firstly,

which the promoter has collected from the allottees. Secondly "which are

related to the project". In the instant case dues of the Noida/Greater Noida

authorities have been collected from the allottees by the promoters but the

authorities have permitted diversion of said amount by not taking any

action in view of the chronic default right from the beginning. Though they

knew that the promoter had booked the flats, even the permission to grant

sub-lease of the plot had been granted in totally illegal manner without 251 payment of dues of premium and lease rent etc. Conditional permission to

the mortgage was issued without payment of the premium lease money etc.

so as to perpetuate the fraud being done by the promoters. The mortgage

created ought to have been objected in view of the conditions subject to

which it could have been done. Obviously, it was done by Amrapali Group

in connivance with officials of Authorities including the bankers. Thus

when the authorities have themselves permitted fraudulent action money

has been diverted, which has been paid by home buyers for payment to

Authorities also, as premium was component of price and as bankers have

also permitted diversion of loan amount, mostly on same day, it cannot be

said in the facts of the case, that any amount of the bankers or that of

authorities remains invested in the project. The sine qua non is the

expression "which are related to the project" would mean that that amount

recoverable from the allottee is the one which has been invested in the

project. A third person can be held liable for the money payable to secured

creditors in case it has been invested in the project, in case it has not been

spent in constructions, same cannot be permitted to be realised from the

project/home buyers, the investment of home buyers cannot be frittered

away and to fasten liability upon the innocent buyers/allottees in that

event would tantamount to perpetrating yet another fraud on them.

Accountability, as per law, has to be fastened on promoters/builders and

all concerned. It would amount to total deprivation of money of home

buyers without any fault on their part or legal liability. It would amount to

fastening liability upon them once over again by misuse of the process of 252 law. The factual matrix unfolded on forensic audit indicates serious kind of

fraud that has taken place which would shut the enforcement of liability

clause as against the home buyers. The provisions of the first and second

charge cannot come to the rescue of Authorities/Bankers. Under Section

11(4)(g) the promoter has to pay all outgoings which he has collected from

the allottees, the payment of outgoings includes land cost, ground rent,

charges for water or electricity, maintenance charges etc. As per the proviso

to Section 11(4)(g) , the promoter shall continue to be liable, even after the

transfer of the property, to pay such outgoings and penal charges, if any, to

the authorities. Outgoings which have been collected by the promoter can

be and have to be recovered in the facts and circumstance of the case from

them as intended by section 11(4)(g) of RERA. 134. Learned senior counsel on behalf of the Bank of Baroda submitted

that the provisions of section 11(4)(h) of RERA provides that the promoter,

after he executes an agreement for sale for any apartment, plot or building,

cannot mortgage or create a charge on such an apartment, plot or building,

as the case may be, and if any such mortgage or charge is made or created

then it shall not affect the right and interest of the allottee who has taken

or agreed to take such apartment, plot or building, as the case may be. The

provision has a non-obstante clause. As the provision has given an

overriding effect by non-obstante clause, the provision is no help to the

banks as the agreement had been by promoters with home buyers entered

into earlier in point of time to the creation of the mortgage. There could not 253 have been any mortgage created subsequently and even if validly created, it

would not affect the right and interest of the allottee as intended by RERA.

Thus, the right and interest of the allottee are safeguarded by virtue of the

provisions contained in section 11(4)(h) . As the project was pending, the

provision intends to confer a right on the allottee and save the allottees and

also their interests from such liability. Even if the provision is held not

applicable on the ground that RERA came into force later, since there was

no valid mortgage as held by us, it was incapable of affecting the right or

interest of the allottee. Had it been ensured that the money due to Noida

and Greater Noida authorities was paid by the promoters to the authorities,

the fraud of siphoning of money would not have taken place to the extent it

has been done. Moreover, the money borrowed from banks has not been

invested in the projects. In fact, projects required no funding. It would be

iniquitous to charge the allottees with the bankers' money. Thus, in the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, we hold that rights or

interests of the allottees are not at all affected by the mortgage created by

the bankers or by the dues of the Noida or Greater Noida authorities. 135. On behalf of the Bank of Baroda, Shri Maninder Singh learned senior

counsel has submitted that section 4(2)(1) of the RERA requires the

promoter to disclose the prior encumbrance. Therefore, the RERA

contemplates the creation of encumbrance even before the project is

registered and such a plot can be offered to allottees. Basically, a

declaration is required under section 4(2)(l)(A) that the land is free from all 254 encumbrances or as the case may be, details of the encumbrances, if any,

on such land, should be disclosed. The intention is that the allottee should

know about the encumbrance if any. The provision does not espouse the

cause of the bank in any manner whatsoever. 136. On the strength of the provision of section 19(4) of RERA, learned

senior counsel has submitted that the allottee should be entitled to claim

the refund and compensation, if the promoter fails to comply or is unable

to give possession of the apartment, plot or building in accordance with the

terms of the agreement for sale or due to discontinuance of his business as

a developer on account of suspension or revocation of his registration

under the provision of the RERA or the rules and regulations made

thereunder. He submitted that the right of the allottees is restricted to only

receiving the compensation from the promoters. We wholly disagree with

the submission. It is made in oblivion of the provisions of Section 8 of the

RERA which provides for completion of the development projects by the

competent authority or by the association of allottees or in any other

manner, as may be determined and the association of allottees shall have

the first right of refusal for carrying out the remaining development work is

the wholesome provision contained in the second proviso to section 8 . To

claim compensation is at the option of the allottee if the allottee wants to go

out. That is an additional right, not the only right conferred under the

RERA. He cannot be left in lurch but is entitled to claim the refund if he so

desires. It is his option to claim the refund along with interest and 255 compensation which is to be determined under the RERA. The rights of the

allottees are not restricted to only receiving the compensation as

submitted. The submission is too tenuous to be accepted. 137. A submission has also been raised that the RERA recognises and

protects interests of the lenders and does not in any manner take away

rights under any of the existing statutes such as T.P. Act, Debt Recovery

Tribunal Act, SARFAESI Act. It is apparent from a perusal of RERA, which

is a special Act, that certain rights have been created in favour of the

buyers. The provisions of RERA have to prevail. When we come to the

question of protection of rights of buyers even if RERA had not been

enacted, under aforesaid laws in the facts of the case, a different view could

not have been taken. However, there is no dispute that the bankers would

have the right to recover their dues from whom and in what manner is the

question which we have already answered. The provisions of RERA are

beneficial to the home buyers and are intended to insulate them from

fraudulent action, ensures completion of the building and it is the duty of

the court to protect and ensure the home buyers’ interest and at the same

time to hold them responsible for the duties enjoined upon them under the

said statute. We are not absolving the home buyers from the discharge of

their liability if any. At the same time, they have the right of enforcement of

their right for compensation due to undue delay in completion of the

project. 138. It was submitted by learned senior counsel on behalf of the Greater

Noida authority that title has to pass in home buyers by way of registered

document as provided in section 17(1)(b) of the Registration Act and section

13 of the U.P. Apartments Act, 2010 and also the provisions of the lease

deed. The deed of transfer will be a tripartite sub-lease deed. Completion

certificate has to be obtained, for that it has to be applied for. Dues of the

authorities have to be paid before a completion certificate is issued. The

charge of Noida and Greater Noida authority has priority over other

charges. None of the aforesaid submissions impress us so as to defeat the

rights of home buyers. We have already dealt with that the dues have to be

recovered in accordance with law from the properties which have been

created by the funds which have been diverted and the property of the

directors etc. In order to do complete justice between the parties so that the

faith of public is not shaken in the real estate sector and such frauds are

prevented in the future. We cannot permit the authorities in the facts and

circumstances of the case to deal with the rights of the home buyers in

arbitrary and in an unjust manner. 139. In case the authorities are making allotment of plots at a paltry sum

of 10% and giving the builders 8 years period to make payment of premium

with a moratorium of 2 years then the period runs to 10 years and the

project is to be completed within 3 years. It is clear that the authorities

have to be very vigilant for securing their interests otherwise in every case

even if the promoter has completed the project and realised the charges 257 from the home buyers and has not deposited the amount due to the

authorities, in case no action is taken by the Authorities, can it be taken

after 10 years against home buyers. The question arises whether innocent

home buyers would have to pay the amount to authorities which they have

already paid to promoters as part of the component of cost of flats or plots

as the case may be, whether they are to be saddled once over again with

the liability to pay, though the amount paid by them has been illegally

usurped and diverted elsewhere and not paid to the authorities and they

have acted in connivance of officials. The authorities have to be vigilant in

such cases and not to tolerate the default. They have to blame themselves

for their inaction and have to wait for the realisation of dues by sale of

other properties and as against guarantors etc. The projects have to be

completed as mandated by Section 8 of RERA 140. It was submitted that the authorities on cancellation of the lease have

to forfeit 25% of the amount and have to resume the lands along with the

structure. It cannot be done in view of the provisions of RERA, particularly

in view of the provisions of section 8 and other beneficial provisions

contained in the said Act. Under section 14 of the Act of 1976, there can be

forfeiture of the entire amount also, in case of breach of condition or

breach of rules, etc. by the promoters/ builders. Be that as it may. We hold

and direct no action under any provisions derogatory to the interest of

home buyers can be taken either by the authorities or the bankers in the

peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, that is to say, that no part of 258 the building can be demolished. Buildings have to come up and completed

even the ones which are at the nascent stage as mandated by RERA. No

doubt about it that in case of failure to pay the dues the onus of payment

of land dues has to be passed on to the buyers on pro-rata basis but in the

instant case they have already paid the substantial amounts, huge amount

has been permitted to be diverted by the authorities and bankers as such

they have to wait for recovery and cannot act in a manner further

detrimental to the interests of the home buyers. 141. On behalf of Amrapali group, learned senior counsel submitted that

there were force majeure conditions in completing the projects. There were

legal impediments in the completion of projects within the period given in

the flat-buyers agreement during the period from 2011-15. The

submission is baseless. It is apparent that the Full Bench of the High

Court though held that the land acquisition was vitiated but still it was

upheld. The High Court did not quash it for the reason that development

has taken place. Higher compensation was ordered to be paid. That order

was affirmed by this Court in 2015 in Savitri Devi v. State of U.P. (2015) 7

SCC 21. There was no interim stay granted by the High Court on

construction work, is made clear by the Noida and Greater Noida

authorities. There was no room to entertain any doubt as to the fact

whether for a particular village the acquisition had been quashed. There

was no quashing of land acquisition and moreover, there was no stay. Only

higher compensation was ordered to be paid. There was no force majeure 259 condition or any legal impediment as such the period from 2011 to 2015

cannot be treated as a moratorium period vis-à-vis the dues of Noida and

Greater Noida authorities. The submission made as to the farmers'

agitation etc. is too vague and 30% of the projects have come up; whereas

70% have not yet come up, out of the projects in Noida and Greater Noida

alone. It goes to indicate how at large-scale middle-class home buyers have

been defrauded of their hard-earned money, taken away by the affluents

and the officials in connivance with each other. Law has to book all of

them. We are hopeful that law will spread its tentacular octave to catch all

culprits responsible for such kind of fraud causing deprivation to home

buyers. It is shocking and surprising that so many projects have remained

incomplete. Several lakhs of home buyers have been cheated. As if there is

no machinery of law left to take care of such situation and no fear left with

the promoters/builders that such acts are not perceivable in a civilised

society. Accountability is must on the part of everybody, every institution

and in every activity. We fail to understand the standard of observance of

the duties by public authorities has gone so down that such frauds take

place openly, blatantly, and whatever legal rights exist only on papers and

people can be cheated on such wide scale openly, brazenly and with the

knowledge of all concerned. There is duty enjoined under the RERA, there

has to be a Central Advisory Council as well as the role of the State

Government is not ousted in order to protect against such frauds. We

direct the Central Government and the State Government to take

appropriate steps on the time-bound basis to do the needful, all other such 260 cases where the projects have remained incomplete and home buyers have

been cheated in an aforesaid manner, it should be ensured that they are

provided houses. The home buyers cannot be made to suffer when we are

governed by law and have protective machinery. Question is of will power

to extend the clutches of law to do the needful. We hope and trust that

hope and expectation of home buyers are not going to be belied. 142. We are not impressed by the submission that Amrapali Group had

taken the lands and had paid a part of dues and has invested a certain

amount. The statement of the expenditure of the money of the home

buyers, in the construction activity that has been filed in the Court, is not

supported by documents and is prima facie a scrap of paper. We have

called the concerned incumbents who have prepared it and cross-checked

from them and we are satisfied that the statement filed on the expenditure

of Rs.10,000 crores is nothing but a scrap of paper not supported by the

books of account, supporting documents. It has to be outrightly rejected as

there is an attempt made on siphoning off, apparent from the report of the

Forensic Auditors also. 143. In his affidavit, Anil Kumar Sharma has given details of companies

from which funds were transferred to the extent of Rs.2,996.20 crores to

different group companies, mainly from following nine companies: 261 144. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Amrapali Group also

submitted that the under-valued transactions have been found of INR

321.31 crores which is incorrect. The Forensic Auditors have given the

details in their report along with reasons, we agree with them and have no

hesitation to reject the submission. 145. As to other amounts with respect to advances which are recoverable,

the explanation that there is a surrender of shares by Mr. Shiv Priya, etc. is

not supported by books of accounts. There is no basis to contend so. No

proper explanation has been given on behalf of Amrapali Group. Shares

were purchased by Mr. Anil Kumar Sharma in his own name. It was clearly

an advance. It was not purchased in the name of the company but in the

individual's name. There was cash in hand and other recoverable also, no

proper explanation has been offered. Cash in hand has to be deposited

back as it belongs to home buyers. The finding as to the diversion of home

buyers' funds is based on the figures worked on the basis of minute

accounting as reflected in the auditors' report. There is no proper answer to

each and every entry which have been gone into by the Auditors. General

and broad submissions have been made which are flimsy and have no legs

to stand. Thus, the objections are rejected. The professional fee could not

have been realised by the Directors. They were not the employees. They

have not rendered any professional services. They along with other

employees, statutory auditors, CFO, etc. have formed a cartel to defraud

the home buyers for siphoning off their money. Dummy companies were

created in the names of peons, boys of office, the relation of statutory

auditor, CFO, etc. and several companies were created only for the purpose

of few transactions. The fact discloses how the fraud has been perpetrated

upon the home buyers which defies description which could not have been

unearthed except by skilful exercise done by the Forensic Auditors. Thus, 263 we have no word to specify the extent of fraud played. Least said is better

as to the entire gamut of the facts and entire scenario of the case. 146. It is apparent from the report of the forensic audit submitted by

Forensic Auditors that there is a serious kind of fraud played upon the

buyers in active connivance with the officials of the Noida and Greater

Noida Authorities and that of the banks. The money of the home buyers

has been diverted. The Directors diverted the money by the creation of

dummy companies, realizing professional fees, creating bogus bills, selling

flats at undervalue price, payment of excessive brokerage, etc. They have

obtained investment from J.P. Morgan in violation of FEMA and FDI norms.

The shares were overvalued for making payment to J.P. Morgan. It was

adopted as a device for siphoning off the money of the home buyers to

foreign countries. In view of the huge money collected from the buyers and

comparable investments made in the projects, there was no necessity to

obtain a loan from banks. The amount so obtained was not used in the

projects. The mortgage deeds in favour of the banks were not permissible

due to non-payment of dues of the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities.

The Noida and Greater Noida Authorities issued conditional NOCs. to

create mortgages subject to payment of dues which were not paid. They

issued such NOCs in collusion with builders. It was incumbent upon the

bankers also to obtain clear unconditional NOCs. which were not obtained

and to ensure that the dues were paid to Noida and Greater Noida

authorities. They permitted diversion of money immediately after 264 sanctioning of the loan and also in day to day transactions of Amrapali

group of companies. 147. No accounts were prepared w.e.f. the years 2015-2018 and money

withdrawn was diverted during the said period. The Statutory Auditor,

Mr.Mittal failed in duty and was part of fraudulent activities as found in

the Forensic Report. The money obtained from banks was diverted to

unapproved uses such as for the creation of personal assets of Directors,

creation of assets in closely held companies by the Directors along with

their partners and relatives, for personal expenses of Directors, to give

advances without carrying interest for several years. There was total non-

monitoring by the bankers. The money laundering was resorted to by

Amrapali Group/ Directors. The Noida and Greater Noida Authorities were

grossly negligent in reviewing and monitoring the progress of the projects

and in collusion with leaseholders failed to take action concerning non-

payment of dues and illegally permitted the group to sub-lease the land

without payment of dues. Bogus allotments of flats were made. There were

other irregularities galore. 148. Because of their failure to fulfil the obligations towards the buyers

and the serious kind of fraud which has been played by them upon the

home buyers, the registration of Amrapali group of companies under the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016 deserves to be

cancelled. 149. Because of the gross violations of the conditions of lease deeds

executed by the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities in favour of Amrapali

group of companies with respect to various projects, are liable to be

cancelled and the rights thereupon shall vest in the Court Receiver. 150. There was no valid mortgage created in favour of Banks and there

was a huge diversion of money paid by homebuyers which were more than

required for payment of dues of the Noida/ Greater Noida Authorities and

banks. The buyers have paid the dues of Noida and Greater Noida

authorities as a component of the price for flats. Thus, the premium and

other dues payable under the lease deeds to the Noida and Greater Noida

Authorities, cannot be recovered from the home buyers or the projects in

question. The dues as may be ordered shall be recovered by sale of other

properties which have been created by the diversion of funds and have

been attached by this Court. The banks have also failed to ensure that the

money was used in the projects. As found in the forensic audit, there was

no necessity of obtaining loans from the banks and it has not been used for

the purpose it was obtained. The Authorities and Bankers have violated the

doctrine of public trust and their officials, unfortunately, acted in collusion

with builders. The dues of the banks are also to be recovered from the

other attached properties as observed by us. 151. The criminal cases have also been registered by the police, we

propose to monitor the progress of the investigation. For violations of FEMA

and FDI norms, we direct the Enforcement Directorate to make 266 investigation in accordance with the law and submit reports quarterly to

this Court. Money laundering aspect is also to be looked into by concerned

authorities. 152. It has been found in the Forensic Audit Report that there are several

recoverable from various companies as well as from individuals, Directors

and other incumbents. We direct that as per the findings recorded by the

Forensic Auditors, the money be deposited in this Court on a time-bound

basis and other needful be done as observed by the Auditors. As we have

approved the report, let the concerned companies/ Directors/ individuals

take steps in compliance with the observations and findings made by

Auditors to refund the amount and or to do needful as suggested within

one month. 153. We have also found that non-payment of dues of the Noida and

Greater Noida Authorities and the banks cannot come in the way of

occupation of flats by home buyers as money of home buyers has been

diverted due to the inaction of Officials of Noida/ Greater Noida Authorities.

They cannot sell the buildings or demolish them nor can enforce the charge

against homebuyers/ leased land/ projects in the facts of the case.

Similarly, the banks cannot recover money from projects as it has not been

invested in projects. Homebuyers money has been diverted fraudulently,

thus, fraud cannot be perpetuated against them by selling the flats and

depriving them of hard-earned money and savings of entire life. They

cannot be cheated once over again by sale of the projects raised by their 267 funds. The Noida and Greater Noida Authorities have to issue the

Completion/ Part Completion Certificate, as the case may be, to execute

tripartite agreement and registered deeds in favour of the buyers on part-

completion or completion of the buildings, as the case may be or where the

inhabitants are residing, within a period of one month. 154. Resultantly, we order as follows: (vi) In view of the finding recorded by the Forensic Auditors and

 fraud unearthed, indicating prima facie violation of the FEMA

 and other fraudulent activities, money laundering, we direct

 Enforcement Directorate and concerned authorities to

 investigate and fix liability on persons responsible for such

 violation and submit the progress report in the Court and let

 the police also submit the report of the investigation made by

 them so far. (vii) We direct the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to

 initiate the appropriate disciplinary action against Mr. Anil

 Mittal, CA for his conduct as reflected in various transactions

 and the findings recorded in the order and his overall conduct

 as found on Forensic Audit. Let appropriate proceedings are

 initiated and concluded as early as possible within 6 months

 and a report of action taken to be submitted to this Court. (viii) We direct various Companies/ Directors and other incumbents

 in whose hands money of the home buyers is available as per

 the report of Forensic Auditors, to deposit the same in the Court

 within one month from today and to do the needful in the 269 manner as observed. The last opportunity of one month is

 granted to deposit the amount and to do the needful failing

 which appropriate action shall be taken against them. (ix) Concerned Ministry of Central Government, as well as the State

 Government and the Secretary of Housing and Urban

 Development, are directed to ensure that appropriate action is

 taken as against leaseholders concerning such similar projects

 at Noida and Greater Noida and other places in various States,

 where projects have not been completed. They are further

 directed to ensure that projects are completed in a time-bound

 manner as contemplated in RERA and home buyers are not

 defrauded. (x) We appoint Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Senior Advocate, as

 the Court Receiver. The right of the lessee shall vest in the

 Court Receiver and he shall execute through authorized person

 on his behalf, the tripartite agreement and do all other acts as

 may be necessary and also to ensure that title is passed on to

 home buyers and possession is handed over to them. (xi) We also direct Noida and Greater Noida Authorities to execute

 the tripartite agreement within one month concerning the

 projects where homebuyers are residing and issue completion

 certificate notwithstanding that the dues are to be recovered

 under this order by the sale of the other attached properties.

 Registered conveyance deed shall also be executed in favour of 270 homebuyers, they are to be placed in the possession and they

 shall continue to do so in future on completion of projects or in

 part as the case may be. We direct the Noida and Greater Noida

 Authorities to take appropriate action to do the needful in the

 matter. The Water Works Department of the concerned area and

 the Electricity Supplier are directed to provide the connections

 for water and electricity to home buyers forthwith. 155. Let the cases be listed for further hearing before us on 9.8.2019. ………………….…..J.
 (Arun Mishra)

 …………………..….J.
 (Uday Umesh Lalit)
July 23, 2019; New Delhi.