Per Vijay Pal Rao, Vice President

 This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against
the order dated 31/07/2023 of the learned CIT (A)-NFAC Delhi,
for the A.Y.2017-18. 2. The assessee has raised the following grounds: 3. The assessee is a Non-Banking Finance Company
(NBFC) registered with the RBI and engaged in micro-finance
business since 1999. The assessee filed its return of income for
the year under consideration on 27/10/2017 declaring total
income at "Nil". The case was selected for scrutiny under CASS
under complete scrutiny. During the scrutiny assessment
proceedings, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has
made cash deposits to the tune of Rs.39,66,15,500/- in the bank
account during the demonetization period in Specified Bank Notes
(SBNs). The Assessing Officer asked the assessee to explain the
source of the deposits of SBNs during the demonetization period.
In response, the assessee explained that the assessee is in the
business of micro-finance and lending small loans to the poor and
women in the rural area. It collects cash and ultimately deposits
this amount in the Bank. Therefore, the assessee explained that
the cash deposits made during the demonetization period were
related to the day-to-day activities of the business of the assessee.
The Assessing Officer did not accept this explanation of the
assessee and held that as per the notification in S.O No.3407(E),
dated 8/11/2016 issued by the Govt. of India, the SBNs in the
denomination of Rs.500 and Rs.1000 were withdrawn as legal
tender w.e.f. 09/11/2016 and permitted the deposit and such
SBNs held by a person into his bank account. Thus, the
Assessing Officer held that the acceptance of SBNs by the
assessee after 8/11/2016 and deposit of the same in the bank
account of the assessee were in contravention of the notification Page 3 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

issued by the Govt. of India. The Assessing Officer accordingly
held the said deposits of Rs.39,66,15,500/- as unexplained
money u/s 69 of the I.T. Act, 1961 while passing the assessment
order dated 30/12/2019. 4. The assessee challenged the action of the Assessing
Officer before the learned CIT (A) but could not succeed. 5. Before the Tribunal, the learned AR of the assessee
has submitted that the assessee operates under highly regulated
environment as the activities of the assessee are regulated by the
RBI. The assessee is required to maintain the record of category of
customers, KYS norms, proper loan agreement, repayment
schedule and disclosure of interest rates etc. The books of
account of the assessee are subjected to annual audit as per the
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 as well as the Tax Audit
under the I.T. Act, 1961 . The RBI conducts annual inspection of
the company's records and to ensure the compliance with the RBI
directions, the assessee is not permitted to take unsecured
borrowings from any source other than the corporates. Therefore,
generation of any unexplained income in the hand of the assessee
is not possible. The assessee operates its business through a
network of 700 branches spread out in 19 states. The
disbursements of loan are made in the branch office, but the
collections are made in the centers with each branch up to 9 and
10 centers. The centers are working close to the borrowers' places Page 4 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

and therefore, the collections are made in the center where group
of women meet and repay the instalment. Thus, the Field Credit
Officer collects the instalments and deposits in the bank account
attached to the respective bank branches. Each and every
transaction is recorded in the branch and also in the loan
management system (LMS) at the Head of Office. Thus, the
learned AR has submitted that all the daily collections are
deposits in the company's bank account except for small amount
of collection from the overdue borrowers which takes place after
the closure of the banking hours. The cash received from the
borrowers towards the repayment of loan/instalment was a
maximum of specified bank notes and non-specified bank notes.
The learned AR has submitted that this is not a consideration
received by the assessee against the sale of goods or commodity
but it is a collection of loan receivable from the borrowers which
was advanced earlier. He has referred to the loan receivable
details as on 31/03/2016 which is more than 1500 crores. The
loan receivable is an identifiable with each individual and they are
supported by the agreement in writing and also duly recorded in
the books of accounts. Therefore, the transaction of loan advance
by the assessee and recovery from the borrowers are not in
dispute which were source of deposits in the bank account of the
assessee. The learned AR has further submitted that the nature of
the business of the assessee is such that, it cannot be scaled up
or down significantly in a short span of time and therefore, there
is no abnormality in the recovery of loan and deposits in the bank Page 5 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

account in comparison to the other period/months of the year
under consideration as well as in the corresponding period of the
earlier years. The Assessing Officer has not disputed the sundry
debtors as on 31/03/2014 and recovery of the loan from the
borrowers as source of deposits. However, he has made the
addition only due to the notification issued by the Govt. of India to
declare the currency notes of Rs.500 and Rs.1000 is not legal
tender w.e.f. 09/11/2016. He has pointed out that during the
demonetization period, the assessee has accepted the specified
bank notes (SBN) of Rs.39,66,15,500/- only against the total
collection of Rs.196,09,54,572/- which were collected from its
borrowers against 3 existing agreements; therefore, the
acceptance of Specified Bank Notes was only 20% of the total
collection and deposits made by the assessee. Thus, the recovery
of debts would not partake the character of income when the
assessee has already declared interest income which is not
disputed by the Assessing Officer. Thus, the learned AR has
submitted that when the collection of loan from borrowers is a
business receipt of the assessee and the genuineness of the same
is not disputed by the Assessing Officer, then the addition made
by the Assessing Officer only because of the reason that the
deposits was made in SBNs is not justified and sustainable. He
has referred to instruction No.3 of 2017 issued by the CBDT dated
21/02/2017 whereby the tax authorities are instructed to follow
the procedures and source specific general guidelines in respect of
the cash deposits in the bank account. As per the instructions Page 6 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

annexed to the said instructions, the cash received from
identifiable persons can be verified only to see whether the
receipts are in line with the normal directions of the concerned
business and therefore, the Assessing Officer can verify the
monthly sale sum details with breakup of cash and credit as well
as entries in the bank account to identify the cases having
suspicion of back data in sale of fictitious sale. Thus, when the
transactions of recovery from the borrowers are not disputed by
the Assessing Officer, then the addition is contrary to the
guidelines issued by the CBDT. He has further submitted that the
CBDT has issued as many as six circulars to guide the tax
authorities and to follow this standard operating procedure in
respect of the deposits of SBNs in the banks. The learned AR has
pointed out that prior to the assessement proceedings, the
Investigation Wing has also conducted a proper investigation and
inquiry about the SBN deposits in the bank account and no
adverse finding was given by the Investigation Wing after
conducting the said investigation in the case of the assessee. The
assessee produced all the relevant details including the month-
wise recoveries and loan advances by the assessee as well as the
deposits in the bank account during the year as well as the 3
preceding years. Nothing was found abnormal either by the
Investigation Wing during the inquiry conducted about the
deposit of SBN or by the Assessing Officer to treat the deposits in
the SBN as unexplained income of the assessee. Thus, the learned
AR has referred to the comparative details of monthly and yearly Page 7 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

deposits placed at page No.240 of the paper book and submitted
that the deposits during the demonetization period is will within
the line of the deposits made in the earlier months as well as tin
the earlier years. He has also referred to the assessment order of
other NBFCs and submitted that the Assessing Officer that the
Assessing Officer has issued the show cause notice u/s 142(1) of
the I.T. Act, 1961 in those cases and then made no addition in
respect of the deposits of SBNs in the bank account during the
demonetization period. Such assessment orders are placed at
page No.72 to 77 of the Paper Book No.4. Thus, the learned AR
has submitted that when the Department has accepted similar
deposits in SBNs, then the additions made in the hand of the
assessee is not justified. The learned AR has relied upon the
following decisions: 8. In the rejoinder, the learned AR of the assessee has
submitted that all the details were furnished before the Assessing
Officer in response to the notice u/s 142(1) of the Act and
therefore, it is not the case of non-furnishing of the details by the
assessee before the Assessing Officer. 9. We have considered the rival contentions as well as the
relevant material available on record. The dispute before is
confined to the addition made by the AO on account of cash
deposit in the Bank A/c to the tune of Rs.39,66,15,500/- in
Specified Bank Notes (SBNs) during the demonetization period
from 09/11/2016 to 30/12/2016. The AO has made the addition
solely on the basis of the notification issued by the Govt. dated
08/11/2016 whereby the bank notes of the denomination of
Rs.500/- and 1000/- referred as SBNs were declared to be as Page 10 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

ceased to be legal tender w.e.f. 09/11/2016. For ready reference,
the notification dated 08/11/2016 is reproduced as under: (2) Immediately after forwarding the return referred to in sub-
 paragraph (1), the specified bank notes shall be remitted to the
 linked or nearest currency chest, or the branch or office of the
 Reserve Bank, for credit to their accounts. 2. The specified bank notes held by a person other than a
 banking company referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 1
 or Government Treasury may be exchanged at any Issue Office of
 the Reserve Bank or any branch of bank referred to in sub-
 paragraph (1) of paragraph 1 for a period up to and including the
 30th December, 2016, subject to the following conditions, namely: 3 [ (vi) cash withdrawal from a bank account over the counter
 shall be such as may be specified by the Reserve Bank
 of India from time to time: 4 [ (viii) cash withdrawal from an ATM shall be such as may
 be specified by the Reserve Bank of India from time to
 time.] (ix) any person who is unable to exchange or deposit the
 specified bank notes in their bank accounts on or
 before the 30th December, 2016, shall be given an
 opportunity to do so at specified offices of the Reserve
 Bank or such other facility until a later date as may be Page 13 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

 specified by it. 5 [ (x) the limits for cash withdrawal by farmers from their
 loan and other accounts shall be such, as may be
 specified by the Reserve Bank of India. (xi) for wedding expenses, a maximum of Rs. 2,50,000
 may be withdrawn in cash from the bank accounts,
 subject to such conditions as may be specified by the
 Reserve Bank of India.]
5a [ (xii) deposit of specified bank notes collected between 10th
 day of November to 14th day of November, 2016, by
 the District Co-operative Central Bank shall be subject
 to instructions of the Reserve Bank of India and for the
 specified bank notes deposited by individual
 customers or by the Primary Agricultural Credit
 Societies complete audit check of the veracity of the
 Know Your Customer documents of the said individual
 or the members of the said Primary Agricultural Credit
 Societies shall be conducted by the National Bank for
 Agriculture and Rural Development: (2) All ATMs, Cash Deposit Machines, Cash Recyclers and any
 other machine used for receipt and payment of cash shall be shut
 on 9th and 10th November, 2016. (3) Every bank referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 1
 shall recall the specified bank notes from ATMs and replace them
 with bank notes having legal tender character prior to reactivation
 of the machines on 11th November, 2016. (4) The sponsor banks of White Label ATMs shall be responsible to
 recall the specified bank notes from the White Label ATMs and
 replacing the same with bank notes having legal tender character
 prior to reactivation of the machines on 11th November, 2016. ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

 (5) 6[***]

 (6) The banking company referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of
 paragraph 1 and Government Treasuries shall resume their
 normal transactions from 10th November, 2016. 4. Every banking company referred to sub-paragraph (1) of
 paragraph 1, shall at the close of business of each day starting
 from 10th November, 2016, submit to the Reserve Bank, a
 statement showing the details of specified bank notes exchanged
 by it in such format as may be specified by the Reserve Bank." 10. In pursuant to the said notification, the SBNs were
ceased to be the legal tender between the citizens. However, a
time period was provided within which the SBNs could be
exchanged at the notified bank or the same could have been
deposited in the bank a/c of the person. Therefore, the only
option with the person having the SBNs after the notification
dated 8/11/2016 was either to get the same exchanged as
indicated in the notification and the bearer of the SBNs would
receive an equal amount from the Bank in the bank notes
demonetized or to deposit/tender in the Bank Account. The
window was given to the holders of the SBNs to get it exchanged
or deposit in the Bank A/c up to 31/12/2016. Thus, it is clear
that except for the specific transaction as provided in the
notification, the SBNs were ceased to be legal tender for all
purposes between the citizens. The factual legal status of the
SBNs in pursuant to the notification dated 8/11/2016 would be
that it belongs to the bearer of such notes and therefore, the value
of the SBNs deposited in the Bank A/c would be the money of the
bearer. Thus, the question arises whether a transaction in the Page 15 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

SBNs between the citizens other than allowed under the
notification can be accepted as preponderance of human
probabilities of carrying out such transaction with prohibited
currency notes (SBNs) as a bank note which is demonetized and
declared as ceased to be legal tender can only be exchanged
through the notified bank as indicated in the notification and the
bearer of the SBNs would receive an equal amount of the bank
notes. The effect of the demonetization of the Bank notes is that it
ceased to be in circulation except tendering or exchanging by way
of returning to the bank. Therefore, the bearer of the SBNs would
be considered as owner of the Bank notes as the same could not
be used as a currency in circular except the manner and purpose
as allowed in the notification. Therefore, after the demonetization
when the SBNs were ceased to be a legal tender and ceased to be
as currency in circulation, the holder of the SBNs was having only
option of it exchanged or deposit in the Bank A/c. Nobody was
allowed to collect the SBNs from other person and then deposit in
the bank as it would defeat the very object of the demonetization.
Therefore, it is highly unlikely that the holder of the SBNs after
the notification dated 8/11/2016 would use the SBN as a legal
tender and currency in circular because no person of ordinary
prudence would enter into such a transaction of accepting or
tendering the SBNs other than the manner and purpose allowed
in the said notification. The assessee being a Non-Banking-
Finance Company (NBFC) is also not supposed to deal in SBNs
after the said notification dated 8/11/2016. Therefore, the claim Page 16 of 22 ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd

of the assessee that the amount deposited in the Bank A/c during
the demonetization period from 9/11/2016 to 31/12/2016 is a
recovery from the borrowers during the said period is not only in
contravention of the notification dated 8/11/2016 but also
subsequent ordinance/ Act on Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of
Liabilities) Act, 2017 as well as against the preponderance of
human probabilities. The CBDT has also issued various circulars
including Circular No.225/100/2017/TA-II dated 21/02/2017
notifying the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed
by the AO in verification of the cash transactions relating to the
demonetization. There are as many as 6 circulars/notifications
issued by the CBDT providing necessary guidance and
instructions to the tax authorities to deal with the cases of
substantial cash deposits during the demonetization period.
Neither the AO nor the CIT (A) has examined the relevant facts
and records of the assessee by following the SOP as notified by
the CBDT. The CIT (A) has confirmed the addition made by the AO
in para 5 to 15 as under: 11. Thus, the AO as well as the CIT (A) has made the
addition by rejecting the claim of the assessee that the source of
the said cash is the collection made by the assessee from the
borrowers during the demonetization period solely on the basis of
the notification issued by the Govt. and without verifying the
relevant record and particularly, the correctness of the claim of
the assessee in the light of SOP issued by the CBDT. Accordingly,
we are of the considered opinion that this matter requires a
proper verification and examination of the record as well as the
genuineness of the claim of the assessee in the light of the SOP
issued by the CBDT in this respect. Hence, the impugned order of
the CIT (A) is set aside and the matter is remanded to the record
of the CIT (A) for fresh adjudication in the light of our above
discussion. ITA No 448 of 2023 Share Microfin Ltd 12. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the Open Court on 3 rd July, 2025. KV Rangareddy, Hyderabad 500076, Telangana
2 Dy. CIT Circle 3(1) 7th Floor, Signatrure Towers, Kondapur, Hyderabad
3 Pr. CIT - Hyderabad
4 DR, ITAT Hyderabad Benches
5 Guard File

 By Order Page 22 of 22