PIO & Chief General Manager
 Bank of Maharashtra,
 Head office-LOKMANGAL,
 Pune-411004

RTI application filed on : 10-02-2011
PIO replied on : 25-03-2011
First Appeal filed on : 25-04-2011
First Appellate Authority order of : 19-05-2011
Second Appeal received on : 29-06-2011
The appellant was the victim of a 17000 rupees loss in her account through an internet fraud. Sl. Information sought Reply of PIO 1. Details regarding one bank account of Shri Arvind We inform the appellant the information sought
 Ramchand Desai (account holder of BOM Dombivali for are related to personal information the
 Branch), through which Money Mule account the disclosure of which has no relationship with
 money was siphoned off. any public activity or interest and would cause
 unwarranted invasion of privacy of the
 individual and as such exempt u/s 8(1)(j) of the
 act. 2. Copies of account opening forms and copies of Same as above. documents obtained under KYC and relied upon, as
 prescribed by RBI at the time of opening of this
 account at the Dombivali Branch. 3. Similar details viz. Account opening form and KYC Same as above. documents in respect of introducers of this particular
 account. 4. *copies of the account statements of the above Same as above. mentioned Money Mule Account( from which the
 amount was signed off date of opening to freezing of
 account) 5. *system for monitoring of such" Money Mule Bank has issued guidelines for monitoring of
 account as per RBI guidelines. Money Mules accounts as per RBI guidelines. A copy of the same is enclosed as annexure-1 6. *system for monitoring of such newly opened bank All the new accounts are monitored on
 account (saving/current) opened with your bank continuous basis and transactions which give Page 1 of 4 /branches during initial period as per RBI guidelines. rise to suspicious nature. 7. *what are the norms for dormant account and the All those accounts which have not been
 procedure for activities such bank account which are operated for two years are categorized as
 dormant? Procedure for activation and authorization "inoperative account". Further, for the purpose
 any operations before any operations are being of classifying an account as inoperative, both
 allowed. the types of transactions ie. Debit as well as
 credit transactions induced at the instance of
 customers as well as third is considered. 8. How come my E-mail address details and fact that We inform appellant that bank never discloses
 Appellant is banking with BOM were leaked? email address or personal information of its
 customers to anybody. 9. It appears that BOM website has been hacked. Bank's official website was never hacked. Details thereof. 10 Safety measure taken by bank to protect sharing of The customers' database being the most critical
. the data base of its customers with outsiders/vendors information is never disclosed with outsiders. to protect its own interest and that of its customers. However, NDA is signed with the vendors
 working on the bank's systems in order to
 assure the non disclosure of the customers data. 11 Despite knowing that it was a cyber Crime, why the Bank has already lodged the complaint with
. bank did not register the complaint with Cyber Crime cyber crime cell, Pune on 16th july 2010. Cell at Pune or Mumbai. 12 *Number of such phishing instances particularly There are 5 instances happened during
. happened during June/july 2010. Name of the June/July 2010. The information regarding the
 victims, account details, details of Mule accounts. victims & their account details can not be
 Date on which the first complaint was received at provided as the information would impede the
 BOM Hqrs. Steps/measures taken by BOM to alert process of investigation or apprehension or
 other customers in this regard to protect their interest. prosecution of offenders & as such exempt u/s
 8(1)(h) of the act. however regarding
 phishing of your account, bank vide its letter
 dated 14/01/2011 has made correspondence
 with you, a copy of the same is attached here
 with. Annexure-2. Bank alerts its customers
 time to time through various means including
 SMS alerts and e-mail. 13 *copy of statement/return of reporting of Fraud to Copy of reporting of frauds to RBI & internal
. RBI,DBS,CO- Mumbai and copy of communications investigation report, we inform you that the
 received from RBI in this regards follow up action. information is confidential report of bank &
 hence we can not provide the same. Moreover,
 the information sought for has no relationship
 with any public activity or interest. 14 *copy of the internal/investigation report and Same as above. 15 *The action taken by the bank detection of the Fraud No staff lapses observed in the particular fraud.
. against concerned bank officials/authorities for non
 adherence of KYC guidelines as well as internal
 guidelines thus helping/abatement perpetration of this
 particular fraud. 16 whether bank is aware that the captioned fraud also Appellant have sought certain opinion which
. falls under the provisions of prevention of Money does not fall under the definition of
 Laundering act-2002? YES or NO? 'information' under RTI act. 17 *if yes, whether the bank has reported the requisite As the matter is under process we can not
. details to Financial Intelligence unit (FIU-ND), provide the same. NewDelhi un der AMI guidelines? If yes copy of
 communication on sent to FIU-ND
18 If No, reasons therefore? Any action contemplated Does not arise.
. against delinquent officials? Details thereof.
19 Whether there is any system of fixing of any Bank is having well defined staff accountability
. accountability such cases? Details thereof. examination policy to deal with misconduct. 20 *copy of Risk management policy of the bank Regarding the measures taken to address
. Measure taken to address operational risk. Details "operational Risk" as per operational risk
 thereof management policy, the information
 technology department would assess the IT
 environment. Risk and IT operation and
 product Risk and submit a half yearly report to
 the ORMD. This would cover losses on account
 of technological issues, operational- breakdowns, system downtimes, ATM
 downtimes and programming error with impact
 on loss of business/income, repair & recovery
 plans etc.
21 On enquiry with other banks it was learnt that they No information regarding this is under RTI. We
. had introduced various net safety/security measures inform that as no staff lapses observed in the
 viz. linking of beneficial accounts registering of IP particular fraud no accountability is fixed.
 address from which normally transactions carried
 out, system of sending E-mail and sms alerts, etc.
 why none of these measures had been introduced by
 BOM earlier or even now to protect customers? Whether any staff accountability has been fixed?
 Details thereof. 22 *current status of the Investigation/proceedings of Bank has taken immediate steps to inform and
. internet banking Fraud in my above mentioned guide and assist the file the FIR with the police
 savings bank account. station. Bank has also extended all the
 information to the police authorities. The
 matter is being investigated by the police
 authorities. 23 Future course of action contemplated against these Information does not arise. 24 *efforts made by the bank to trace the whereabouts of Bank has extended all the necessary
. Mr. Arvind Ramchandra Desai, Dombivali, who has cooperation by analyzing and providing the
 been the customer of BOM and one of the required information of the suspects to the
 beneficiary of this fraud. police authorities and the matter is being
 investigated by the police authorities. 25 *date of log-in and time and details of IP address and Log-in and time details of IP addresses and
. please from which my savings bank account No. places from which your current A/c was
 20096685404 maintained at you of any Andheri-east siphoned, the information can not be provided
 branch, Mumbai was accessed on 13-07-2011 and an as the information would of offenders & as
 amount of Rs. 17,000/- was siphoned off. such exempt u/s 8(1)(h) of the act.
26 Details of any advertisement by the bank in the new No such adv was published in local newspaper. . paper for generating further public awareness
 amongst customer about such fraudulent activities. Copies thereof. 27 *after reporting of such internet banking frauds, any One time password for addition of the
. further measures taken bank in this regard to beneficiary through internet banking has been
 strengthen the security of its IT system. Details implemented and fund transfer facility is
 thereof. available only to the registered beneficiaries
 through the otp. Grounds for the First Appeal: The Commission also directs the PIO to provide the information on query-17 & 25 . Decision: