1. This Cyber Appeal No. 6 of 2014, under Section 57 (1) of the

 Information Technology Act, 2000, read with Rule 3 (1) of Cyber

 Regulations Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000, has been filed

 by Appellant, Vodafone Idea Limited, against Prashant Mahadeorao

 Buradkar, State Bank of India, General Manager, Local Head Office,

 Mumbai, as well as State Bank of India, Branch Manager, Mahal

 Nagpur Branch, near Khadi Gramodyog, Nagpur, before the Cyber

 Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi, against Order dated 18.02.2014,

 passed by Shri Rajesh Aggarwal, Adjudicating Officer(AO), Principal

 Secretary, Information Technology, Government of Maharashtra, in 3 Cyber Complaint No. 14 of 2013, with this contention that Respondent

 No. 1, complainant, was a subscriber of Appellant i.e., Vodafone India

 Limited (VIL), a public limited company, having its registered office at

 Vodafone India limited, Peninsula Corporate Park, Ganpatrao Kadam

 Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013. Appellant is a Cellular Network

 Service Provider and a licensee under Unified Access Service License,

 duly licensed by the Department of Telecommunications, Government

 of India, to provide mobile telephony services in the relevant service

 area. Being aggrieved by the impugned order passed by Adjudicating

 Officer, in Complaint No. 14 of 2013, i.e., order dated 18.02.2014,

 whereby Appellant had been directed to pay compensation to the

 tune of Rs. 6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs only), payable to

 Complainant/ Respondent No. 1, this appeal is with a prayer to set

 aside, the Impugned Order. 2. Respondent No. 1, an individual subscriber, since 2007, was with a

 Customer Agreement Form (CAF) entered by it with Appellant. At the

 time of registration, driving license, employment letter and salary slip,

 as document, for establishing identity and proof of residence, were

 filed. Those are Annexures A-3 & A-4 collectively. On 23.07.2011, one

 person, holding himself out as Mr Kaustubh Das, the authorized 4 representative of Complainant/ Respondent No. 1, having

authorization letter from Mr Prashant Buradkar, visited the Vodafone

store at Vashi and requested for replacement of the SIM card. Upon

his request and on receipt of SIM replacement request in prescribed

form, along with authorization letter, it was duly processed and a new

SIM, bearing Number 12301460177, was provided to that person. On

the same day i.e., 23.07.2011, the new SIM, bearing No.

12301460177, was got activated. True and correct copies of the SIM

Replacement Form, with other submitted documents, were Annexure

A-5 colly. Respondent No. 1/ Complainant, admitted in his complaint

that person who requested for replacement of SIM on the

aforementioned date, was an imposter. Respondent No. 1 visited

Vodafone store at Vashi on 26.07.2011, with a request for

replacement of SIM and upon this request for replacement of SIM, in

prescribed form, along with requisite documents of the subscriber

(Annexure A-6 colly), the request was duly processed and a new SIM

was provided to person who visited the store and this was got

activated on 26.07.2011. On 24.09.2011, Appellant received a request

for furnishing information under Section 91 of Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973, from the Police Officer, Rabale Police Station, Navi 5 Mumbai, with respect to Complainant/Respondent No. 1. This

request is Annexure A-7. On 11.10.2011, the Appellant submitted

the information, as requested above, to the Inspector of Police,

Rabale Police Station, Navi Mumbai, which is Annexure A-8 to memo.

Complainant/ Respondent No. 1, on 02.07.2013, lodged a complaint

with Learned Adjudicating Officer, bearing Complaint No. 14 of 2013

under Section 43 , 43A , 46 and 61 of the Information Technology Act,

2000, with this grievance that Appellant had failed in the performance

of its obligation under the IT Act , causing an illegal siphoning of Rs.

10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand only), from the bank

account of Respondent No. 1, maintained with Respondent No.3, i.e.,

State Bank of India, Mahal Branch, Nagpur. This complaint was replied

before Ld. Adjudicating Officer, and finally Impugned Order dated

18.02.2014, was passed, against which this appeal, with contention

that impugned order had been arrived at finding, with observation

which had never been alleged by the Respondent, and it had never

been subject matter of adjudication, before Ld. Adjudicating Officer.

Repeated breach of Section 43 , 43A , 46 and 61 of the IT Act, by

Appellant, was said in the complaint. Whereas, the allegation was with

regard to siphoning of Rs. 10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty 6 Thousand only) from the bank account of Respondent No. 1,

 maintained by Respondent No. 3. Whereas, Ld. Adjudicating Officer

 was with jurisdiction under Section 43A of IT Act, read with Section 46 ,

 restricted to the claims involving (i) body corporate possessing,

 handling and dealing in sensitive personal data or information in a

 computer resource, which it owns, controls or operates and (ii)

 negligence by such body corporate in implementing and maintaining

 reasonable security practices and procedures, (as prescribed by Section 43A of the IT Act, read with Rule 8 of the Information

 Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and

 Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 in respect of such

 computer resource, which it owns, controls or operates. 3. The jurisdiction to adjudicate for any non compliance with subscriber

 verification by Appellant, falls within the jurisdiction of Department of

 Telecommunication, pursuant to the terms and conditions, of License

 Agreement, and that the Department of Telecom is the appropriate

 authority to decide and adjudicate upon the issues of failure in

 verification and imposing consequent penalties, if any. Ld.

 Adjudicating Officer did not have the jurisdiction in respect of above

 cause of action, which falls squarely within the domain of Department 7 of Telecom. Further, it is a settled position of law that in the cases,

 where there is a special legislation or regulation governing any

 activity, the deviations, if any, must be seen in the light of such special

 regulations. Hence, the impugned order is against the settled

 proposition of law. 4. The Appellant was not holding any sensitive personal information, the

 unauthorized access of which has caused any wrongful loss to

 Respondent No. 1 and second, not negligent in implementing and

 maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures, as

 prescribed by Section 43A of the IT Act read with Rule 8 of the Rules,

 in respect of any computer resource which it owns, controls or

 operates. Rather, Appellant acts as merely a conduit between two

 parties. In the instant case, the Appellant had only acted as a conduit

 between Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. 3. He was with a

 limited role of facilitation of services to its customers. But Ld.

 Adjudicating Officer failed to consider the submission of Appellant on

 the ground of maintainability of above complaint. To bring a case in

 respect of Section 43A of the IT Act, the Complainant was must to

 show that there was a sensitive personal data or information being

 processed handled or dealt with by the Appellant. Whereas, it was 8 categorically denied in its reply before Adjudicating Officer. The

 Cellular Services, provided by Appellant, involves carriage of voice and

 data of its subscribers from one end to other, within or outside its

 network. For this purpose, the Service Provider is required to establish

 a Cellular Mobile Network, which comprises of a Mobile Switching

 Center i.e., simply a brain of network and this Mobile Switching Center

 is connected to Base Station Controllers, located across the service

 area, either through wireless signals emitted through the cellular

 antennas installed by various service providers at both the ends or

 through the optical fibers and this Base Station Controllers are

 connected to Base Trans-receiver Stations(BTS), located at different

 locations, either through wireless signals emitted through cellular

 antennas, installed at both the ends or through optical fiber. It is these

 BTSs, where upon antennas are installed which emit and receive

 wireless signals to and fro, between a person availing Cellular Mobile

 Telephony Services through his Subscribers Identify Module Card (SIM

 Card), which is inserted/ installed in the handset by subscriber. 5. The Appellant Company is a licensee of the Government of India, as a

 Unified Access Service Provider, in the State of Maharashtra & Goa,

 with effect from 06.11.2008 and it was with function to be governed 9 by the provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 , India Wireless

Telegraphy Act, 1933 , as well as Telecom Regulatory Authority of India

Act, 1997 . Under the said License, the Appellant Licensee is

authorized to provide the Voice, Non Voice and Video Conference

facilities. Access Service Provider can also provide Internet Telephony,

Internet Services and Broadband Services. If required, access service

provider can use the network of NLD/ ILD service licensees. The role

of Appellant Company i.e., Telecommunications Service Provider, was

restricted to providing access to its network, to the subscribers of such

Telecom Service Provider for the purpose of transmitting messages in

real time and other than in relation to a transitionary period. Such

messages are not saved or stored on any computer resource owned or

operated by the Appellant. Rather, Appellant does not have any

access to the content of the messages (voice or text), being

transmitted over its network and it neither stores, nor possesses, nor

handles, nor deals with the content of the messages being transmitted

over its network. The provision of Section 43A of IT Act, only attracted

in relation to a body corporate possessing, dealing or handled in

sensitive personal data or information. Therefore, Appellant does not

have any access to the sensitive personal data or information, in the 10 course of its function to provide the Services, under the License

 granted to it, by the Department of Telecommunications. It cannot be

 said to be possessing, dealing or handling any information,

 whatsoever, to bring it within the area of Section 43A of Information

 Technology Act. Ld. Adjudicatory Officer had failed to recognize that

 the Respondent No.1/Complainant had not made any specific

 averment in their complaint, as regard to any breach of the

 Appellant's duty to implement and maintain reasonable security

 practices and procedures. Hence, there was no violation of Section

 43A of the IT Act. 6. Reasonable security practices and procedures, as contemplated by the Information Technology Act, 2000 , are in relation to the computer

 resource, which in the case of Appellant is its network and do not

 include the subscribers verification process at the time of issuance or

 re-issuance of SIM cards. Whereas, as per Rule 8, Body Corporate shall

 be deemed to have implemented and maintained reasonable security

 practices and procedures, if it had implemented and maintained the

 ISO 27001 standards for network security and Appellant had always

 complied with the Network Security Conditions. Hence, it was never

 negligent in implementing and maintaining the reasonable security 11 practices and procedures. There was no linkage, nor any proof

between fraudulent transactions and negligence being alleged against

the Appellant, in implementing the Network Security Conditions for Section 43 of IT Act, a specific averment that any of the acts under Section 43 (a) to (j) have been undertaken, without the permission of

the owner or any other person in charge, of a computer, computer

system or computer network, is to be levelled. Whereas, in the

present case, Appellant, being a Service Network provider, is the

owner/ person in charge and a complaint under Section 43 (g) cannot

be made against the owner of the computer, computer system or

computer network. There was no allegation in complaint with any

specific averment in respect of any act given under Section 43 (a) to (j), being said to have occurred in respect of Service Network. Under Section 43 A of the IT Act, 2000, the Respondent No.1 establish,

firstly, the Body Corporate, which is possessing, handling or dealing in

sensitive personal data or information in its capacity, as owner,

controller or operator of the computer resource, has breached in its

duty to implement and maintain the reasonable security practices and

procedures. Secondly, such breach of duty, has resulted in wrongful

gain or loss, pursuant to the unauthorized access/ use of the sensitive 12 personal data or information and finally, such wrongful gain or loss, is

 attributable to the breach of the duty to implement and maintain the

 reasonable security practice and procedure, in respect of the

 computer resource in which the Body Corporate possesses, handles or

 deals with sensitive personal data or information. But it was never

 averred with regard to Appellant and its service network or conditions

 of its license, given in License Agreement for Unified License. 7. The present dispute pertains to fraudulent online money transactions.

 But Ld. AO has appreciated erroneously and had given a complete go

 by to the settled principles of attribution of liability. The impugned

 judgment was based on assumption and apportionment of liability

 between Appellant and Respondent no. 2, herein. Whereas, criminal

 trial for the same offence, in question, is still pending on the basis of

 charge-sheet bearing R.C.C. No. 564/ 2012, pending before Learned

 Trial Court. Respondent have specifically admitted in the pleading

 that the only inconvenience caused to Respondent No. 1, was the

 alleged non-receipt of intimation of the transfers, from the alleged

 bank account, maintained with Respondent No. 3 and impugned order

 has been passed on it. Whereas, one time password was to be given

 by complainant itself. At the outset, it is submitted that the 13 complainant have failed to first and foremost establish and prove that

the entire wrongful loss caused to him was on account of the

unauthorized access to the one time password. Appellant doesn't deal

handle or possess the sensitive personal data or information, the

unauthorized access of which has resulted in the alleged wrongful loss

to the Respondent, was of no concern with appellant. Even if,

Appellant inadvertently issued/replaced SIM Card to an alleged

imposter, such replacement doesn't in any manner amount to

assistance, which requires an overt intentional act, on part of any

person alleged to be assisting. Mere access to a SIM Card, which

continues to be a property of the Appellant, facilitates an access to a

computer, which is owned by the Complainant, or which the

Complainant is in-charge of, was to be proved by Complainant. But it

was not proved so. Appellant is an 'intermediary', as defined in Section 2(1)(w) , of the IT Act, and he, in its capacity, as a 'Telecom

Service Provider', falls squarely, within the aforesaid definition. He is

under exemption category as per Section 79 of Chapter XII. Appellant

had observed due diligence in the matter, while discharging its duties

and it had acted in good faith. An inconvenience caused to the

Complainant/ Respondent No. 1 on account of deactivation of telecom 14 services to the SIM Card inserted in the handheld device of

 Respondent No.1, resulted his inability to receive intimation at the

 time of alleged unauthorized transfer of funds from the bank account,

 maintained with Respondent No. 3 and Appellant is not responsible

 for it. But Ld. AO has failed to appreciate it. 8. Verification of subscriber, at the time of replacement of SIM, is a

 reasonable security practice or procedure, and the Appellant is

 actually proved to have been negligent in such verification, even then

 Ld. AO has failed to identify the nature of the sensitive personal data

 or information possessed, handled or dealt by the Appellant, which

 had resulted in the loss or the negligence on the part of Appellant,

 resulting wrongful loss suffered by Respondent No.1. The damages

 awarded was not corresponding to actual loss and cause of negligence

 alleged against Appellant. The apportionment on the basis of

 contributory negligence was also not in consonance with the settled

 proposition of law. It was the Complainant/ Respondent No. 1, aware

 of User ID, Password, Transaction Password, Security Grid given to it

 and without this, siphoning may not be possible. Hence, it was the

 negligence of Respondent No.1, which resulted such fraud. Hence, this

 appeal, within the jurisdiction of this Tribunal, under the period of 15 Limitation, with a prayer for setting aside the impugned order, dated

 18.02.2014 of Ld. Adjudicating Officer, passed in Complaint No. 14 of

 2013. 9. The Complaint No. 14 of 2013 was filed before the Adjudicating

 Officer, Mumbai at Mumbai by Mr Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar

 against State Bank of India, Head Office, Branch Office and Vodafone

 India Limited, under Section 43 , 43A , 46 and 61 of Information and

 Technology Act, 2000, with a claim of damages, amounting to Rs.

 10,50,000 /- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only), with interest of

 9.5%, from the date of incident, till date of adjudication, as well as

 pendentelite and future interest, till actual date of realization, with

 this contention that Complainant was having his Savings Joint Account

 in State Bank of India, Branch Office i.e., Respondent No. 2, in the

 name of him and his brother Mr Pravin Buradkar, as Saving Account

 No. 10483092588. Respondent No. 1, is a Nationalized Bank, offering

 banking services, having its Local Head office and Branch Office,

 Respondent No. 2 at Mahal, Nagpur. This Respondent No. 1 and 2 uses

 computer resource, under his control, and operate operation for its

 banking services. Respondent No. 3 is a prominent Cellular Company, 16 for the purpose of its business, using computer resource under its

 ownership, control and operation. 10.Complainant had its cell phone No. 9819026356 from Respondent No. 3. Online banking facility was got activated with Respondent Nos. 2

 and 3 by Complainant. It was being availed by Complainant, as per

 manual instructions, given in usual guide with a secured online

 transaction, with a frequent change of password with all security

 measures. Complainant's brother Mr Pravin Buradkar had never used

 internet banking. Registered mobile no. 9819026356 of Respondent

 No. 3 was given by Complainant to his bank service provider i.e.,

 Respondent No. 2, to get update on online activities and transactions

 from his account. On 23.07.2021, complainant's SIM with above

 mobile number, which was controlled by Respondent No. 3, was

 suddenly got deactivated. Complainant immediately called upon the

 call center of Respondent No. 3, at around 07.00 P.M., on the same

 day. Enquiry was made with regard to said deactivation of above

 mobile number, and it was explained by customer care representative

 that due to some technical error in the SIM card, it must have been

 deactivated. Hence, it be got replaced from nearest Respondent No. 3

 gallery. As it was Saturday and Sunday, the next day complainant was 17 unable to go the Respondent No. 3 gallery. On 26.07.2011,

Complainant went to Respondent No. 3, Vashi gallery to change the

SIM Card and issuance of new SIM Card, which was got done.

Subsequently, this card was got activated and on 30.07.2011, it was

transpired that fund were missing. It was instantly intimated to

Respondent No. 2, through phone and email, about illegal online

transfer. Complainant was transpired that from 24.07.2011 till

26.07.2011, total 27 transactions of Rs. 10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs

Fifty Thousand only), have taken place in his account. It was by some

unknown person, having unauthorized access to the Respondent Nos.

1 and 2 computer system, resulting penetration and siphoning from

Complainant's Saving Account No. 10483092588. On 23.07.2011,

some unknown person, got deactivated the complainant mobile and

issued a duplicate SIM Card, issued by Respondent No. 3 at its Vashi

Gallery, without due verification with no information to Complainant.

When he called to Respondent No. 3, Call center on 23.07.2011, for

enquiring about deactivation of his mobile number and on

26.07.2011, when a new SIM card was reissued to the Complainant, it

was a gross negligence of Respondent No. 3, resulting loss of Rs.

10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) to complainant. A 18 criminal complaint, as case file no. 496 of 2011, was also got

 registered at concerned Police Station, Rabale, Navi Mumbai on

 30.07.2011, for offence punishable under Section 420 read with 34 of IPC , read with Section 66 of IT Act. 11. Investigation also revealed about the shortcomings of system of

 Respondents, letting such fraudulent acts. Hence, this complaint with

 above prayer, was got filed before Adjudicating Officer. Wherein,

 notices were issued, replies were filed and after hearing both side,

 impugned order was passed by Ld. Adjudicating Officer, with a

 direction to State Bank of India to pay damages, to the tune of Rs.

 6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs only), by way of compensation to the

 complainant, and in case of failure, compound interest, @12% to be

 compounded monthly, was also payable. Respondent No. 3, Vodafone

 was directed to make payment of damages in the tune of Rs.

 6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs only) within a month, and failing which,

 the compound interest, @ 12% to be compounded monthly, was also

 chargeable. 12.This order of Adjudicating Authority is under appeal in Cyber Appeal 7

 of 2014, filed by State Bank of India, through GM, having Local Head

 Office at Syenrgy, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai, Respondent No. 1 19 in Complaint and State Bank of India, through Branch Manager, Mahal

 Branch, Mahal Nagpur, Respondent No.2, in Complaint, against

 Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar, Complainant, present Respondent

 No. 1 and Vodafone Essar Limited, Respondent No. 2 that is Appellant

 of Appeal No. 6 of 2014, and opposite party No. 3 of main Complaint. 13.The facts are one and common, written Supra with a bit elaboration,

 for and on behalf of Bank, that the Complainant was having its Saving

 Bank Account, in his name and his brother in SBI Mahal Branch, with

 online banking facilities and it was being operated nicely. But with

 activation of new SIM Card by Vodafone Essar Company on

 26.07.2011, Complainant found that since 24.07.2011 to 26.07.2011,

 there was illegal transactions in his account, thereby siphoning of

 Rs. 10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) by some

 unscrupulous and unknown persons, who had deactivated cell phone

 of Complainant, and had obtained duplicate SIM Card, issued by

 Vodafone Essar, in that period. A complaint was instantly got lodged

 at Police Station, Rabale, Navi Mumbai, then after this complaint for

 damages, was also filed before adjudicating authority. The allegation

 against bank was lack of due diligence in implementing and

 maintaining reasonable security measures/practices/procedures 20 according to Internet Banking in India Guidelines laid by RBI DBOD

 COMP BC NO. 130/07.03.2 June 2001, resulting loss to complainant.

 The Adjudicating Officer held that Bank Appellant have not followed

 the KYC norms, in opening and maintaining bank accounts, that's why

 liable to compensate Respondent No. 1 for his loss. 14. A reply was filed with contention that Internet Banking channel is

 protected by advanced security feature, both physical and logical.

 Appellants have considered various risks inherent in transacting over a

 public network, such as the Internet and have deployed appropriate

 security measures to protect customers. Firewalls allow only valid web

 traffic to reach the Appellant's server. Proven 128-bit Secure Socket

 Layer (SSL) encryption technology is deployed to ensure that the

 information exchanged between the user's computer and

 www.onlinesbi.com over the Internet is secure, and cannot be

 intruded upon. VeriSign certifies that information exchanged during a

 valid session is protected during its transmission over the internet.

 Further, the Appellants have additionally installed mechanism, such as

 Intrusion Detection System, which gives further protection to the

 transactions on the internet site. The procedure for activating Internet

 banking is as stated that Account Holder has to make a requisition for 21 Internet banking. He gets Internet Banking Kit, which contains First

 user ID and a password, with a unique registration code, to be entered

 in the system, at the time of activation of Internet banking facility.

 And once, the process of activation is completed, the Account Holder

 is to start using the Internet banking facility with the User ID and

 password provided in the Kit after lapse of 24 hours only. This First

 User ID and password is automatically generated by the system and

 no employee of the bank has the access or avenue to get acquainted

 with such User name and password. 15.The First ID and password provided by Appellant at the time of

 activation of Internet banking facility is to be used for the first time

 operation only, and after the entry with the First User ID and

 password the system immediately prompts for a new ID and

 password. Thus, the First User ID and password would be used only

 once in order to create customers own ID and password. And after its

 generation by Account Holder, the First password and User ID given in

 the Kit becomes lapse. A profile password is to be set by user. It is

 unique with each account holder and it can never be duplicated,

 copied or used without knowledge or permission of the Account

 Holder. High Security password is also generated and sent for each 22 transaction on internet facility. It is generated automatically and

 message to registered mobile number provided by Account Holder at

 the time of application for Internet banking. Thus, the mobile number

 and the SIM Card containing all information is an important

 component of the entire system, and it is imperative that the Account

 Holder is very careful as to what information he feeds into the SIM

 Card, which can be misused as his, in this instance. It is, therefore,

 clear from the above factual position, that it is the responsibility of

 individual Account Holder, to maintain the secrecy of his User ID and

 password. And in case of failure, its own negligence and carelessness

 with its own responsibility and cost. 16.In the present case, the unauthorized transactions, in 27 numbers, in

 between 24.07.2011 and 26.07.2011, siphoning amount of Rs.

 10,50,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only), withdrawn by

 third party, was owing to negligence of Complainant, and Vodafone

 Essar Company. But without appreciating the facts and evidences,

 erroneously bank was directed to make payment of Rs. 6,00,000/-

 (Rupees Six Lakhs only). Even the practices of Banks abroad, has been

 written in the impugned judgment, which is of no concern, which is

 matter and issue before the Adjudicating Officer. The finding of 23 Adjudicating Officer, was not based on the evidences on record.

 Hence, this Appeal with above prayer. 17.The reply of this Appeal, as well as of Cyber Appeal No. 6 of 2014,

 were filed by Complainant, reiterating the contention of complaint. 18.Heard Learned Counsels of both sides and gone through the materials

 places on record. 19.While hearing in Appeal No. 6 of 2014, Vodafone India Limited Vs. Mr.

 Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar and other, Order dated 22.02.2024

 was passed as below: in this Cyber Appeal." 20.Meaning thereby, the points raised in memo of Appeals, narrated as

 above, were raised in other Appeals of the same bunch. It were heard

 and decided, against which, Appeal has been filed before Bombay

 High Court, as a Second Appeal wherein, a date for hearing is there

 and the legal question involved in this Appeal, was restricted to only

 one question that the laws, which were framed and against whom

 deviation is being said, were of year 2016. Agreement entered, in

 between, was never infringed and the alleged negligence, resulting

 this cause of action were of period, previous to those enactment.

 Hence, that legislation/ Rules of year 2016, are not applicable to this

 fact. Wherein replaced SIM Card was got issued prior to above rule of 25 2016 i.e., when there was not any Regulation and direction, to be

 observed, for replacement of SIM Card, by service provider. 21.The Appeal was to be heard on that narrow point only. But while

 being argued, it was further elaborated by both of the Appellants and

 as well as Respondents, in both of above Appeals. A written

 submission in form of brief note, was filed by Learned Senior

 Advocate, Mr. Meet Malhotra assisted by Mr Kaushik Moitra,

 Advocate, Ms Subhalaxmi Sen, Advocate, Ms Romi Kumari, Advocate,

 Mr Ravi S S Chauhan, Advocate and Ms Pallak Singh, Advocate, as

 follows: II. The pointed defence of the Appellant is that the present

 proceedings are not emanating from a general action for

 compensation on account of negligence in tort or damages for

 breach of contract. The action against the Appellant emanates

 from a right apparently conferred on Respondent No. 1 under Section 43A of Information Technology Act, 2000 (" IT Act,

 2000 ") dealing with Compensation for failure to protect data.

III. It is the case of the Appellant that Section 43A of IT Act, 2000

 must be read in totality, including the explanation thereto, (see Sundaram Pillai Vs. Pattabiraman , (1985) 1 SCC 591 Para No. 53). The main Section 43 A is couched in such words and terms

 as may lead to a conclusion that general negligence on behalf of

 an entity, such as Appellant shall render that entity to "pay

 damages by way of compensation" to a person affected by

 negligence of such entity. IV. However, explanation to the Section, more particularly (ii) and (iii), are particularly significant and in the submissions of the 27 Appellant, if read in totality and holistically, with the main

 Section, will narrow down the scope of what constitutes

 actionable negligence attributable to an entity, such as the

 Appellant. V. Since the Respondent No. 1 has chosen to avail a remedy

 especially provided by Section 43 A of the IT Act, 2000, the

 substantive definition of what constitutes negligence

 thereunder, must also strictly bind all stakeholders. Once having

 taken recourse to Section 43 A of the Act, the Respondent No. 1

 cannot then rely on general principles of damages for breach of

 contract or tort. Viewed from this perspective "reasonable

 security practices and procedure" in explanation (ii) must

 necessarily mean: (a) such as specified in the agreement

 between the parties, or (b) specified in any law, or (c) in

 absence of any agreement or law, as prescribed by the Central

 Government. VI. It is the case of the Appellant that issue of duplicate SIM card

 stands on a different footing than issue of a SIM card, in the first

 instance. That, at the time when the alleged infraction took

 place in July, 2011, there was no: (a) agreement between 28 parties as to norms covering issuance of duplicate SIM card (b)

 no law specifying practices and procedures required to be

 observed by the Appellant and (c) no security practices or

 procedure prescribed by the Central Government in

 consultation with professional bodies etc.

VII. Without prejudice to aforesaid, it is further the case of the

 Appellant that SIM card does not constitute "sensitive personal

 data or information" and is merely a card or merely a piece of

 hardware, which is inserted in a handheld mobile phone,

 connected with the mobile phone to network of the Telecom

 Service Provider ("TSP"); but that in itself, on a standalone basis,

 on as is where is basis, the SIM is a card or piece of hardware as

 given in various instances. VIII. It is the case of the Appellant that on previous occasion the

 Hon'ble Tribunal noticed that Section 43 A, may not be

 attracted to a TSP, such as Appellant ( ICICI Bank v. Saurabh Ravi

 Shankar Jain , 2019 SCC Online TDSAT 3480, Para No. 10). Subsequently, the Bench (Chairperson alone) decided a matter

 i.e., Vodafone Idea Limited v. Sandeep Singhal, Cyber Appeal

 No. 5 of 2018, against the TSP. In that judgment and order 29 dated 20.12.2019, reference is made to Section 43 A, but not to

 the explanation to Section 43 A, which is the crux of the legal

 submission on behalf of the Appellant in the present round of

 litigation. And the judgment of Sandeep Singhal, is under

 Appeal before in Bombay High Court in First Appeal (ST) 1339 of

 2020 and operation of judgment is stayed on certain conditions. This does not operate as precedence so far as Appellant's case

 is concerned. 22. The circular dated 16.08.2016 was the guidelines with regard to

 issuance of replace SIM Card. Prior to 16.08.2016, there were DOT

 guidelines dated 10.05.2005 and 22.11.2006, for the issuance of a

 fresh SIM Card on boarding of a customer. And in view of guidelines of

 DOT dated 09.08.2012, no penalty shall be imposed on the licensee, in

 case of failure to take due care of process of activation verification

 applicable at that time. 23. In reply, the arguments of Complainant is that negligence of the

 Applicant Vodafone is fully covered under Section 43A of the IT Act

 2000, because it was held to be negligent and failed to employ/enable

 reasonable security practices and procedure mandated by law, for

 issue of duplicate SIM Card. The guidelines/directions, which were 30 applicable for issuance of fresh SIM Card would apply with equal force

 to issue a duplicate SIM Card also, in case of no direction with that

 regard, till direction dated 16.08.2016. 24.Kamini Solanki, the witness of Appellant had admitted the procedure

 being observed with regard to issuance of duplicate SIM Card and it

 was not observed in the present case. The SIM card was not only a

 SIM card, and it was not a hardware. Rather, it was with identification

 module and the information furnished by Complainant for getting

 above cell number being given in Bank services, online transactions, it

 was with all information of banking transactions contained in

 computer maintained by banking company and any lapse on part of

 reasonable practice with regard to this software and hardware, was an

 act, within the domain of Section 43A of the IT Act. 25.Information Technology, reasonable security practices and procedures

 and sensitive personal data or Information Rules 2011 was with Rule

 3, Rule 4, Rule 5.5, and Rule 8, specified law to be obeyed. But it was

 not obeyed so. Appellant controls and operate SIM Card carrying the

 customer's personal data and information which, in mobile

 technology driven world, facilitates personal, business and financial

 transaction processes. The full form of SIM Card suggests that it is 31 Subscribers Information Module, thereby meaning, that the entire

information of the subscriber is controlled by the same. The entire

business of the mobile operators critically depends on the use of vast

amount of data, both personal and business related, transacted over

mobile platform and constitutes the core of the profits of these

operators. The customers are using mobile phones to facilitate their

business and to share sensitive business data and information related

to their business activities. The sensitive personal data and

information, in the present case, is the SIM Card along with the proof

of identity, signature and alternate phone number of the customer

that are fed with the system database of the Appellant cell Company.

Appellant collect these sensitive and personal information from the

customer, before any services, post-paid or pre-paid, are provided.

Appellant is the custodian of such sensitive and personal information

which includes photo identification, signatures, alternate phone

number etc., of customer. It was negligent in issuing replaced SIM

Card to the fraudsters, by allowing to access the sensitive personal

data Information provided by Complainant at the time of obtaining its

mobile number. Bank too was negligent in observing the guidelines

relating to online banking. It never communicated through alternate 32 phone number or email. Unnatural transaction in between 24.07.2011

 to 26.07.2011, with such a huge siphoning of money was there in the

 account of Complainant, but no heed was there. Hence, both of these

 Appeals were prayed to be dismissed. 26.Heard Learned Counsels of both side and gone through the materials

 places on record. 27.Learned Senior Counsel for Vodafone, i.e., Appellant of Appeal No.

 6/2014 had narrowed down the dispute, written as above, that the

 issue of duplicate SIM card stands on a different footing than issue of

 SIM card, in the first instance, that at the time when the alleged

 infraction took place in July 2011, there was no agreement between

 the parties, as to norms covering issuance of duplicate SIM card, nor

 there was any law specifying practices and procedures, required to be

 observed by the Appellant, no security practices or procedure

 prescribed by Central Government in consultation by professional

 bodies was deviated. This plea was taken by Cellular Service Provider,

 in Cyber Appeal Nos. 1 and 4 of 2014, wherein, a judgement dated

 14.02.2020, was with specific mention of the plea taken, for and on

 behalf of Vodafone, that it is the only a service provider under the

 licence, granted by the Department of Telecom, Government of India, 33 it does not possess, handle or deal with any sensitive personal data or

information, and hence, Section 43A of the Information Technology

Act, 200 ( IT Act ), will not apply to Telecom Service Provider, like

Vodafone. Further, defence of Vodafone was that it had Customer

Agreement Forms (CAF) and subscriber verification is not included in

scope of the reasonable security practices and procedure under Section 43A . The identity and nature of sensitive personal data or

information, possessed or handed by Vodafone, has not been

established. In any case, since there was no intentional Act for

assisting the fraudster, therefore, no contravention of Section 43 (g) of

the IT Act, can be attributed and this plea taken before Adjudicating

Officer, was taken in above appeal too, before Appellate Tribunal, and

it was not accepted, even by Adjudicating Officer, as well as by this

Tribunal. Rather, Adjudicating Officer in that particular case had held

that there was direct nexus between blocking of SIM card of the

complainant, issuance and use of duplicate SIM card by the fraudsters,

and the unauthorised financial transactions, on the account of

complainant. The importance of mobile numbers for use in financial

transactions and other sensitive transactions is growing by leaps and

bounds, and it is not a secret to Telecom Service Provider, like 34 Vodafone. They earn huge revenues from such valid use of mobile

phones. The significance of SIM or a duplicate SIM can best be

understood by such service provider. In that particular case,

documents of ICICI Bank show that not only bank transaction alerts

but even OTP was sent to the registered mobile number, but in fact it

went to the duplicate SIM card, which was issued purely on account

of negligence boarding on connivance and laxity, in maintaining

reasonable security measure and by ignoring the standard

procedures, for verification of documents for replacement of SIM card

with the original documents and the data available in the CAF of

original SIM owner. But, if such duplicate SIM was not issued to the

fraudster, the unauthorised financial transactions were not possible.

The fraud could still be prevented had Vodafone not blocked the

original SIM card of the complainant, without contacting original SIM

owner. This prevented the complainant from getting alerts in respect

of unauthorised transactions from his bank account. The security

measure of Vodafone was hopelessly inadequate, because it had

come on record that online filenet system was down for days. Even for

a cursory comparison of check, the labelling the fraudulent nature of

request of duplicate SIM as to why the Vodafone did not check 35 whether original number was in use or not remains a mystery. Not

 only this issue, rather other technical points were also raised by

 Vodafone, before Appellate Authority, as was previously raised before

 Adjudicating Officer alleging the same fact, which has been alleged in

 present Appeal. The facts and issues of this Cyber Appeal No. 1 of

 2014, and present Appeal No. 6/2014 are one and similar. This

 Tribunal in aforesaid judgment dated 20.12.2019, in Cyber Appeal No.

 3/2018, Bank of India vs Sh. Sandeep & Anr. read with Cyber Appeal

 No. 5/2018, Vodafone Idea Ltd. Vs Shri Sandeep Singhal and Anr , had

 reiterated with the finding that Vodafone was liable under Section

 43(g) and 43A of IT Act, whereas the Bank was found deficient in

 security measures liable under Section 43A of IT Act, and both of these

 Appeals were dismissed. 28.Hence, the very argument raised by Learned Counsel, in present

 Appeal, written as above, for and on behalf of Appellant Vodafone are

 with same facts and of common issues, requiring no further

 reiteration. Rather, to get those previously settled proposition of law,

 applied in present appeal. The argument of Learned Counsel that the

 judgment of this Tribunal in ICICI Bank Limited vs. Mr Sourabh

 Ravishankar Jain in Cyber Appeal No. 5/2013 on September 24, 2019, 36 reported at 2019 SCC Online TDSAT 3480 at "Para No. 9 & 10" was

with following mention : But in the subsequent case of Vodafone Idea Limited vs Mr Sandeep

 Singhal & Anr , supra, which was decided by Single Bench of Hon'ble

 Chairperson, and it is under Appeal listed in Bombay High Court. Hence, it does not operate as a precedent, so far Appellant's case is

 concerned. 29.This argument of Learned Senior Counsel is not tenable because the

 question was raised in case of State Bank of India Vs. Shri Chander

 Kalani and Anr , in Cyber Appeal No. 13 of 2015 with M.A No. 282 of

 2017, decided on 31st July 2018, reported at 2018 SCC Online TDSAT

 738, wherein Section 46 with regard to execution of Adjudicating

 Authority and Section 43A of IT Act, was raised, heard and decided

 with the finding that Bank through its computer resource was clearly

 possessing, dealing and handling sensitive personal data and

 information of complainants in its computer resource. The reasonable

 security practices and procedures required to be implemented and 38 maintained, had to be designed to protect such information from

 various acts, such as unauthorised access and use. 30.The judgment of this Tribunal, delivered in Bank of India vs Sandeep

 Singhal , in Cyber Appeal No. 3 of 2018 as well as Vodafone Idea Ltd.

 vs. Sandeep Singhal and Anr in Cyber Appeal No. 5 of 2018, was with

 specific discussion and finding that too, after hearing both side in Para

 26 as follows : The protection of interest of its subscribers who are not in any
 way third parties, cannot be covered by exemption granted by Section 79 of IT Act. Hence, there is no requirement of further
 analysing the submissions advanced by Learned Counsel for the
 complainant that even if Section 79(1) was to apply to
 subscribers and consumers of Vodafone by treating them as
 third parties, in view of requirement of under sub- Section 2 (b) 39 (ii) and (c), the intermediary is required to observe due diligence
 and observe or follow other guidelines prescribed by the
 Central Government such as the Information Technology
 (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules 2011, (hereinafter referred to
 as the Guidelines Rules of 2011). Under Rule 3 of Guidelines of
 2011, the intermediary is required to follow due diligence while
 discharging a number of duties enumerated in that rule. One of
 the duties is to strictly follow the provisions of the Act and any
 other Law of the timing in force. The intermediary is required to
 also take all reasonable measures to secure its computer
 resource and information contained therein following the
 reasonable security practices and procedures, as prescribed in
 The information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and
 Procedures and Sensitive Personal Information) Rules, 2011. 27. Once the computer resource of the intermediary contains
 informations relating to SIM No and other details of a
 subscriber, these informations have to be kept secured and not
 allowed to be tampered or changed in a casual manner. Such
 information is required to be secured almost in identical terms
 as required by Section 43A of the Act. " 32.The very argument with regard to application of guidelines of dated

 1.8.2016, as has been argued by Learned Senior Counsel that provision

 for observing security practices and procedures in the matter of issue

 of duplicate SIM, has been included in the guidelines of Department of

 Telecommunications (DOT). (Only through guidelines dated 1.8.2016);

 The earlier guidelines of 2012, provide guidelines for issuance of SIM

 to a new subscriber and also of for change of SIM for pre-paid to post-

 paid and vice versa, but not specifically for issue of duplicate SIM. This

 issue was also heard and decided by this Tribunal, in above judgment

 that guidelines which were with regard to issuance of SIM card or

 change of its nature were fully applicable with regard to issuance of

 duplicate SIM card, and it was guidelines given in year 2012 as well as

 2016 that in the interest of National Security Purpose, the close

 monitoring and verification, with regard to issuance of SIM card or its 42 activation or deactivation was required. Hence, the argument that it

 was not required, is not tenable. Rather, the argument of Learned

 Counsel of Respondent are being found to have merit that even as per

 2012 Guidelines, the Telecom Service Provider has to adopt all the

 basic security measures, before deactivating SIM card of its subscriber

 and issuing a fresh SIM card to an applicant claiming to be an existing

 subscriber. Hence, in present case, the photograph, signature etc of

 the present complainant and of the imposter, who claimed for

 issuance of SIM card was with quite difference, legible apparently, and

 there was no precaution taken by having a contact on alternate phone

 number for verifying the veracity of applicant and the request made

 by it. Hence, the argument raised by Learned Senior Counsel for

 Appellant, is of no avail. Hence, Cyber Appeal No. 6 of 2014, merits its

 dismissal with cost. 33.So far as appeal of Bank is concerned, the issues raised by Bank had

 been decided in many appeals, including in those two appeals

 discussed supra and bank was held liable for making payment to

 fraudster. In present case too, there was unusual transaction of

 withdrawal, without any confirmation to complainant, and Learned

 Adjudicating Officer in its judgment has elaborately discussed with 43 those circumstances and had awarded compensation, in

 apportionment, in the tune of Rs. 6 lakhs, to be borne by Bank. The

 principle and law held by this Tribunal, in those previously decided

 Cyber Appeals are with same facts and alike argument, as has been

 raised by Learned Counsel for Bank, in present appeal. Hence, the

 appeal of Bank also merits to be dismissed by this Tribunal. 34.Accordingly, both of these appeals are being dismissed with costs. ....................... (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
12.9.2024
/NC/