The prayer in the present petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is to issue direction to respondent Nos.2 to 4 to constitute a Special

Investigation Team (SIT) or to hand over the matter to the Central

Bureau of Investigation in case FIR No.220 dated 28.09.2019 registered

under Section 420 IPC, 1860 at Police Station Nathana, District

Bathinda (Annexure P-4) as it has been alleged that neither the

Investigating Agency is conducting the investigation in a fair and

impartial manner nor has presented a report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. An alternate prayer has also been made to hand over the investigation to

respondent No.3. There is a further prayer to ensure protection of the life

and liberty of the petitioner. 1 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -2- 2. The learned State counsel at the very outset submits that a

cancellation report has been submitted in the present case and the

petitioner can avail his alternative remedies in accordance with law. 3. In response thereto, the counsel for the petitioner reiterates

his prayer that the Investigating Agency has not conducted the

investigation in a fair manner and therefore, the investigation should be

handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or in the

alternative a Special Investigation Team (SIT) should be constituted. 4. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties. 5. There is no doubt that the Court has inherent powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to transfer the investigation from one agency to

another, including to the CBI, if the facts so warrant, but the same should

be done in some rare and exceptional case, otherwise the CBI would be

flooded with a large number of cases making it impossible to properly

investigate each of them. 6. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has dealt with the issues of the

power to order the registration of an FIR, transfer investigations, to

supervise the same and other allied issues in a number of judgments. Some of them are enumerated hereinbelow:- In the judgment of " D. Venkatasubramaniam and others

versus M.K. Mohan Krishnamachari and another 2009(4) RCR

(Criminal) 318, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under:- 7 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -8- 2. It is well settled and this Court time and again, reiterated that
 the police authorities have the statutory right and duty to
 investigate into a cognizable offence under the scheme of Code of
 Criminal Procedure (for short `the Code'). This Court, on more
 than one occasion, decried uncalled for interference by the Courts
 into domain of investigation of crimes by police in discharge of
 their statutory functions. The principle has been succinctly stated
 way back in Emperor V. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad, Air 1945 Privy
 Council 18, and the same has been repeatedly quoted with respect
 and approval. The Privy Council observed that "just as it is
 essential that every one accused of a crime should have free
 access to a Court of justice so that he may be duly, acquitted if
 found not guilty of the offence with which he is charged, so it is of
 the utmost importance that the AIR 1945 PC 18 judiciary should
 not interfere with the police in matters which are within their
 province and into which the law imposes upon them the duty of
 enquiry". 3. The Privy Council further observed: (emphasis supplied) 4. In State of West Bengal V. S. N. Basak , (1963) 2 SCR 52, a
 Division Bench of three Judges of this Court, while referring to
 the observations of the Privy Council referred to hereinabove,
 observed: and it was further held: This Court, having found that the High Court had exceeded its
 jurisdiction in interfering with the investigation, interfered with
 the orders of the High Court by allowing the appeal preferred by
 the State. 9 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -10- 5. In State of Bhihar & Anr. V. J.A.C. Saldanha & Ors., (1980) 2
 SCR 16, a three Judge Bench, speaking through Desai, J., after
 referring the precedents including Khwaza Nazir Ahmad, held: 6. M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) v. Union of India & Ors.,
 2007(1) RCR (Criminal) 266 : 2007(1) RAJ 99 : (2007)1 SCC
 110 was a public interest litigation in which this Court, after no-
 ticing the precedents, held that when a cognizable offence is re-
 ported to the police, they may after investigation take action un-
 der Section 169 or Section 170 of the Code. If the officer-in-
 charge of the police station forms an opinion that there is no suffi-
 cient evidence against the accused, the officer-in-charge may, un-
 der Section 169 of the Code, release the accused from custody or,
 if the officer forms an opinion that there is sufficient evidence, he
 may, under Section 170 of the Code, forward the accused to a
 competent Magistrate. After analyzing the earlier judgments, this
 Court observed : vestigating agency in the matter of investigation into the case that
 has been promptly registered on the information lodged by the re-
 spondent. The petition almost reads like a civil suit for recovery of
 the money. As noted hereinabove, the petition has been filed
 within one week of registration of the crime by which time the po-
 lice had already started serious investigation as is evident from
 the material available on record. It is also required to notice that
 none of the appellants have been impleaded as party respondents
 to the petition filed under section 482 of the Code. The State rep-
 resented by its Sub Inspector of Police, Central Crime Branch,
 Egmore, Chennai alone was impleaded as the respondent. The in-
 vestigating agency in its counter filed in the High Court stated
 that after obtaining necessary legal opinion, a case was registered
 and 'commenced the investigation'. It is also stated in categorical
 terms that the police had "inquired all the connected witnesses,
 recorded their statements and also collected the material docu-
 ments and confirmed commission of cognizable offences by all the
 accused". The High Court, within a period of one month from the
 date of filing of the petition, finally disposed of the same observ-
 ing that "it is obligatory on the part of the respondent police to
 conduct investigation in accordance with law, including recording
 of statements from witnesses, arrest, seizure of property, perusal
 of various documents, filing of charge sheet. It is also needless to
 state that if any account is available with the accused persons, or
 any amount is in their possession and any account is maintained
 in Natinoalised Bank, it is obligatory on the part of the respon-
 dent police to take all necessary steps to safeguard the interest of
 the aggrieved persons in this case." The Court accordingly di-
 rected the police to expedite and complete the investigation within
 six months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. The said
 order of the High Court is impugned in these appeals. XXXX XXXX XXXX 14. The question that arises for our consideration is whether the
 contents of the petition submitted by the respondent reveal any
 12 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -13- cause for issuing directions guiding the Investigating Officer in
 the matter of exercise of statutory power and duty to investigate
 into crime that had already been registered and investigation was
 actually in progress? Whether such a direction could have been
 issued by the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under sec-
 tion 482 of the Code ? 15. It is too fairly well settled and needs no restatement at our
 hands that the saving of the High Court's inherent power is de-
 signed to achieve a salutary public purpose which is that a Court
 proceeding ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a weapon
 of harassment or persecution. It is unfortunate that it is the exer-
 cise of the inherent power by the High Court in this case that had
 ultimately resulted in harassment of the appellants as is evident
 from the subsequent events. Pursuant to the impugned order, the
 investigating authorities have approached the appellant No. 1 (in
 S.L.P (Crl) No. 3269 of 2007), took him into custody and exhib-
 ited him on television channel. The police have demanded to pay
 an amount of Rs. 2,28,00,000/- and threatened that he would be
 arrested if he fails to comply with their demand. Accordingly, the
 appellants have paid Rs. 10 lakhs in cash in the police station it-
 self and issued a cheque for an amount of Rs. 2.18 cores drawn on
 Tamil Nadu Mercantile Bank. However, the cheque was not en-
 cashed on account of the instructions to the bank to stop the pay-
 ment in view of the interim order dated 4th May, 2007 of this
 Court. The police offered explanation stating that the matter was
 settled voluntarily between the parties and therefore, the accused
 were not arrested and remanded to custody. It is difficult to buy
 this idea that there was a settlement between the parties in the po-
 lice station. It is not difficult to discern as to how and under what
 circumstances the appellants may have agreed to pay the amounts
 and also issued a cheque. It is not known as to how and under
 what authority the police could intervene and settle any disputes
 between the parties. It is needless to observe that the police have
 no such authority or duty of settling disputes. 13 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -14- 16. It is the statutory obligation and duty of the police to
 investigate into the crime and the Courts normally ought not to
 interfere and guide the investigating agency as to in what manner
 the investigation has to proceed. In M.C. Abraham & Anr. V. State
 of Maharashtra & Ors. 2003(1) Rcr (Criminal) 452 : (2003) 2
 SCC 649, this Court observed: 17. It is further observed: 18. This Court while observing that it was not appropriate for the
 High Court to issue a direction that the case should not only be
 investigated but a charge sheet must be submitted, held: (emphasis is of ours) 19. It is worthwhile to notice that the directions in the said case
 were issued by the High Court of Bombay in writ petition filed in
 public interest in which a grievance has been made that though
 the Provident Fund Commissioner has lodged a complaint against
 15 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -16- several Directors, the investigation has made no progress on
 account of the fact that the Directors were Government servants
 and enjoying considerable influence. The High Court issued
 series of directions which were challenged in this Court
 contending that the High Court was in error in exercising
 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution resulting in
 unjustified interference of the investigation of the case. It is,
 therefore, clear that if the High Court, in exercise of its power
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, cannot direct the
 investigating agency to investigate the case in accord with its
 views as that would amount to unwarranted interference, equally
 no such directions could be issued in exercise of inherent
 jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code. 20. Tested in the light of the principles aforesaid, the impugned
 order, in our considered opinion, must be held to be an order
 passed overstepping the limits of judicial interference. It was
 observed by this Court on more than one occasion, that even in
 Public Interest Litigation proceedings, appropriate directions may
 be issued and the purpose in issuing such directions is essentially
 to ensure performance of statutory duty by the investigating
 agency. The duty of the Court in such proceedings is to ensure
 that the agencies do their duties in compliance with law. The
 inherent power of the High Court is saved to interfere with the
 proceedings pending before a Criminal Court if such interference
 is required to secure the ends of justice or where the continuance
 of the proceedings before a Court amounts to abuse of the process
 of Court. Such a power under Section 482 of the Code is always
 available to the High Court in relation to a matter pending before
 a criminal Court. 21. The High Court, in the instant case, did not even advert to the
 relevant facts. As stated in the order itself, it was more guided by
 the arguments made across the Bar that the police has not taken
 any steps to arrest the persons and seize the amounts involved in
 this case from the appellants though there is no such factual
 foundation as such laid in the petition. It has altogether ignored

 16 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -17- the counter filed by the police that the police had already
 examined ten witnesses within a short span of time after the
 registration of crime and recorded their statements. The High
 Court, without recording any reason whatsoever, directed the
 police that it is obligatory on their part to record statements from
 witnesses, arrest, seizure of property and filing of charge sheet. It
 is difficult to discern as to how such directions resulting in far
 reaching consequences could have been issued by the High Court
 in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code. The
 High Court interfered with the investigation of crime which is
 within the exclusive domain of the police by virtually directing the
 police to investigate the case from a particular angle and take
 certain steps which the police depending upon the evidence
 collected and host of other circumstances may or may not have
 attempted to take any such steps in its discretion. It is not
 necessary that every investigation should result in arrest, seizure
 of the property and ultimately in filing of the charge sheet. The
 police, in exercise of its statutory power coupled with duty, upon
 investigation of a case, may find that a case is made out requiring
 it to file charge sheet or may find that no case as such is made
 out. It needs no reiteration that the jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code conferred on the High Court has to be exercised
 sparingly, carefully and with caution only where such exercise is
 justified by the test laid down in the provision itself." XXXX XXXX XXXX 23. The High Court in the present case, without realising the con-
 sequences, issued directions in a casual and mechanical manner
 without hearing the appellants. The impugned order is a nullity
 and liable to be set aside only on that score. 24. We are not impressed by the submission made by the learned
 counsel for the respondent that the High Court did not issue any
 directions but merely disposed of the petition with the
 observations reminding the police of its duty. The question that
 arises for consideration is whether there was any occasion or
 necessity to make those "observations" even if they are to be
 17 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -18- considered to be observations and not any directions. It is not
 even remotely suggested that there was any deliberate inaction or
 failure in the matter of discharge of duties by the police. There
 was no allegation of any subversion of processes of law
 facilitating the accused to go scot-free nor there is any finding as
 such recorded by the High Court in its order. The power under Section 482 of the Code can be exercised by the High Court either
 suo motu or on an application (i) to secure the ends of justice; (ii)
 the High Court may make such orders as may be necessary to give
 effect to any order under the Code; (iii) to prevent abuse of the
 process of any Court. There is no other ground on which the High
 Court may exercise its inherent power. In the present case, the
 High Court did not record any reasons whatsoever why and for
 what reasons, the matter required its interference. The High Court
 is not expected to make any casual observations without having
 any regard to the possible consequences that may ensue from such
 observations. Observations coming from the higher Courts may
 have their own effect of influencing the course of events and
 process of law. For that reason, no uncalled for observations are
 to be made while disposing of the matters and that too without
 hearing the persons likely to be affected. The case on hand is
 itself a classic illustration as to how such observations could
 result in drastic and consequences of far reaching in nature. We
 wish to say no more. In " M. Subramaniam and another versus S. Janaki and another ,
2020(2) RCR (Criminal) 788", the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as
under:- 18 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -19- Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State Of Uttar Pradesh And Others (2008) 2
 SCC 409 1 in which it has been inter alia held as under: 19 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -20- disclosed by the complainant because that police officer could take
 further steps contemplated in Chapter XII of the Code only
 thereafter." 13. The same view was taken by this Court in Dilawar Singh v.
 State of Delhi (JT vide para 17). We would further clarify that even
 if an FIR has been registered and even if the police has made the
 investigation, or is actually making the investigation, which the
 aggrieved person feels is not proper, such a person can approach
 the Magistrate under Section 156(3) CrPC, and if the Magistrate is
 satisfied he can order a proper investigation and take other
 suitable steps and pass such order(s) as he thinks necessary for
 ensuring a proper investigation. All these powers a Magistrate
 enjoys under Section 156(3) CrPC. 14. Section 156(3) states: 15. Section 156(3) provides for a check by the Magistrate on the
 police performing its duties under Chapter XII CrPC . In cases
 where the Magistrate finds that the police has not done its duty of
 investigating the case at all, or has not done it satisfactorily, he can
 issue a direction to the police to do the investigation properly, and
 can monitor the same. 16. The power in the Magistrate to order further investigation
 under Section 156(3) is an independent power and does not affect
 the power of the investigating officer to further investigate the case
 even after submission of his report vide Section 173(8) . Hence the
 Magistrate can order reopening of the investigation even after the
 police submits the final report, vide State of Bihar v. J.A.C.
 Saldanha (SCC : AIR para 19). 20 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -21- 17. In our opinion Section 156(3) CrPC is wide enough to include
 all such powers in a Magistrate which are necessary for ensuring a
 proper investigation, and it includes the power to order
 registration of an FIR and of ordering a proper investigation if the
 Magistrate is satisfied that a proper investigation has not been
 done, or is not being done by the police. Section 156(3) CrPC,
 though briefly worded, in our opinion, is very wide and it will
 include all such incidental powers as are necessary for ensuring a
 proper investigation. 18. It is well settled that when a power is given to an authority to
 do something it includes such incidental or implied powers which
 would ensure the proper doing of that thing. In other words, when
 any power is expressly granted by the statute, there is impliedly
 included in the grant, even without special mention, every power
 and every control the denial of which would render the grant itself
 ineffective. Thus where an Act confers jurisdiction it impliedly also
 grants the power of doing all such acts or employ such means as
 are essentially necessary for its execution." 6. The said ratio has been followed in Sudhir Bhaskarrao Tambe v.
Hemant Yashwant Dhage and Othersm , in which it is observed. 7. A perusal of the aforementioned judgments would clearly

establish that while it is open to the High Court in appropriate cases to

give directions for prompt and proper investigation under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the Court should not issue directions to the investigating agency

to submit a final report within a particular time frame. Further, the High

 22 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -23- Court cannot direct the investigating agency to submit a report that is in

accordance with its view as that would amount to unwarranted

interference with the investigation. The contours of the investigation

can also not be delineated by a Court and no order for filing of a charge- sheet or arrest of an accused can be issued. Further, issuance of

directions for an investigation to be conducted by the CBI should be in

rare and exceptional cases so as not to unnecessarily burden the premier

investigating agency with routine matters unless there are grave

allegations against senior officers of the State administration or in cases

having inter-state ramifications etc., of course these situations being

merely illustrative and not exhaustive. 8. Coming back to the facts of the present case, admittedly a

cancellation report has been submitted and the petitioner has the option

of opposing the same in accordance with law at the relevant stage. He

has the right to file a private complaint. In the alternative, the petitioner

has an equally efficacious remedy of approaching the Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. for supervision of the investigation. 9. In the present case, the petitioner has not been able to point

out anything extra-ordinary for this Court to either entrust the

investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or in the

alternative to form an Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the

matter arising out of FIR No.220 dated 28.09.2019 registered under Section 420 IPC, 1860 at Police Station Nathana, District Bathinda

(Annexure P-4). 23 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 ::: CRM-M-24578-2022 -24- 10. Further, there is nothing to suggest that the petitioner faces

any threat to his life as is alleged in this petition nor has anything in this

regard been pointed out by the learned State counsel. 11. In view of the above findings, I have find no merit in this

present petition and the same is hereby dismissed. (JASJIT SINGH BEDI)
 JUDGE
13.06.2022
JITESH
 Whether speaking/reasoned:- Yes/No
 Whether reportable:- Yes/No

 24 of 24 ::: Downloaded on - 13-06-2022 21:56:47 :::