1 Sec clause I55 (1) (a) (ii), App. I.

' (1956) 29 I.T.R. 857 (Bombay H.C.).
3 Vida clause i6o, Expl. 3, App. 1. ' Vida clause 160(2) (81), App. I.

' Clause x6o(1) (b), I.

It «

21!
Succession and partition; Shipping' business of non--residents;
Persons leaving India; Discontinuance of business .etc., or dissolution of asso-
ciation; Royalties; Liability of State Governments. 64. The principal changes made in respect of these pro- ,

visions are as under :-- , tions. (ii) A new expression has been coined', namely "repre-
sentative assessee", to cover all cases where a person is
made responsible in an assessment for the income of ano-
ther person under sections 40 , 41 or 42 (as trustee, guardian,
Administrator-General, Court of Wards, receiver, agent of
non-resident and otherwise). This scheme has been adopted
from the South African Act.' The adoption of this scheme
has made for a considerable simpliﬁcation in drafting. (iii) A new provision' has been inserted to make the
representative assessee personally liable where he disposes
of or parts with the assets in his possession after the tax
has become payable. Under the Act , a person liable as a representative
assessee (particularly a guardian, trustee, or manager) can
be assessed either under the special provisions applicable
in such cases ( sections 40 , 41 and otherwise) or under the
normal charging provision in section 3 . We feel, however,
that such persons should not be chargeable under section 3 when there are special provisions applicable to them. We
have. accordingly, added a provision' for the purpose. The position regarding the rate of tax applicable to
income received by a trustee in cases where the shares of
the beneﬁciaries are unknown or where the income is not
received on behalf of a particular beneﬁciary, has been
slightly amended' so as to provide that the tax on such
income in the hands of the trustee and» otherwise will be
at the rate applicable to an association ;o_f persons; a provi-
sion has, however, been added to the affect that where the
income is actually received by the beneﬁciary, the Income-
tax Officer has the discretion to tax at the rate applicable

1 Vida clause 168, App. I.

' Vida clauses 169-I77, App. I.

3 See sections 69-75, South African Income-tax Act, 2941.
' Clause 172, App. 1. 5 Clause :70 (3), App. 1. ' Via': clause 174. (3.), App. 1. Chapter XVI
Special pro- to the beneﬁciary. We feel that the existing provision in section 41(1) , 1st proviso, authorising the levy of tax at the
maximum rate (in cases where the beneﬁciary has other
income) is not fair. The sheer accident that a beneﬁciary
has income from other sources, should not be a ground for
taxing him at the maximum rate. . (iv) There is at present no provision in the Act for the
assessment of executors. We have inserted a new provision'
for the assessment of executors, based on the corresponding
pr-ovision of the Ceylon Act. (V) The provisions of section 25A , it is now well settled,
apply only to cases of total partition of the family. There
is no provision in the Act as to the enquiries to be made
and the procedure to be adopted in the case of partial parti-
tion of a Hindu undivided family. We think that some
provision on the subject isdesirable. We have therefore
ampliﬁed the section so as to cover cases of partial partition
of Hindu undivided families.' (vi) It has been made clear' that the rate at which a
State Government is to pay the tax on its tax free securities
should be laid down by the Finance Act . 65. All the provisions of the Act applicable to ﬁrms have
been gathered together in this Chapter. This will: enable

T to the partners' and others to ascertain the law from one

Chapter instead of searching for provisions dispersed all
over the Act. . The principal changes made in this Chapter are given

. below : tion of the ﬁrm will suffice.' i

(3) There was some fsdiﬁiculty in determini g when
there is a change in the constitution of a ﬁrm d when
there is a succession. Thegspeciﬁc circumstances hich re-
Eult inda change in ?'the constitution of a ﬁrm have we been

eﬁne ." - T

(4) It has been noticed that Income-tax-OfIic s reject
the applications for registration on the ground of echnical
defects in the instrument of partnership. For xample,
where the partnersiof ﬁrm A and ﬁrm B form a big er ﬁrm_---- 1 Clause 178, App. I

' Sec clause 181, App. I.

' Vida clause 138, App. I.

' Sec clause 191(7),E App. I.
' See clause 194, App. 1. ﬁrm C, the registration of ﬁrm C is refused if the instru-
ment of partnership of ﬁrm C does not itself specify the in-
dividual shares of the partners, but merely mentions the
constituent ﬁrms as the partners. In such cases, the shares
of the partners in ﬁrm C, we feel, should be ascertained
with the help of the instruments of partnership relating to
ﬁrms A and B. We have, therefore, proposed a change in
section 26A, so that in considering the application for regis-
tration, the Income-tax Officer will be required to have
regard to the instruments of partnership of the connected
ﬁrms also. - (5) A clause enumerating all other provisions rele-
vant to ﬁrms has been added. The provision for registration of firms (section 26A and
the rules made thereunder) has worked great hardship in
practice. Practical experience of the working of the Act
shows that the department is astute to find technical defects
on the strength of which registration may be refused. Such
refusal can obviously work enormous hardship, since the
result of such refusal would be that tax would be attracted
at a much higher rate in most cas 's than if the income were
apportioned among the various p tners and taxed separate-
ly in their hands. The reports qt income-ltax cases afford
many illustrations of how even égenuineii firms have been
refused registration merely because of some technical defect.
We have tried to alleviate the hardship by liberalising the
provisions to some extent, as indicated a ' ve. But we feel
that if the provision for registration is at ' ll to_ be retained,
there should be a complete change in th' approach of the
income-tax authorities, and the }provisio§=should not be
administered in a hyper-technical' spiri , as is done at
present. If the law is not admihisteredéi in a liberal and
reasonable spirit, the old adage '-'the letlier ki1leth" would
fully apply. ernment to another provision rdating iﬁrms which we tion of regis-
feel is totally unjust. We are referring t section 23(5)(a)(i) ""4 5-
of the Act, which provides for the levy 0 tax on registered : This provision for double taxation is

been. We have also made it clear' that advance tax on div).-
«iends is conﬁned to advance super-tax. So far as income-
tax is concerned, the question of advance payment does not
arise in' View of the provisions of section 16(2) read with section 18(5) and 49B. V

We have also made 'changes' in the 'rate of interest in
connection with advance tax and the date from which the
interest is to run, so asto secure uniformity. The notes on
the relevant clauses indicates in detail 'the changes made
in this respect. (ii) In regard to the provisions for recovery of tax.
the principal change made is that the provisions pertaining
to the procedure for recovery of tax by the Collector to
whom a certiﬁcate is issued have been incorporated in a
separate Schedule to the Act , which will constitute a self-
congained Code. In drafting this Schedule, we have exa-
mined the provisions of the various Revenue Recovery
Acts of the various States as also of the various Municipal
Acts. The procedure to be followed by the Collector
is not very clear and varies from State to State. This va-
rianeein procedure has been commented upon by the Su-
preme Court.' Whatever the position may be in regard
to recovery of tax levied by States, we consider that there
shoulci be a uniform procedure in regard to recovery of

'Ce.-ntral taxes. (See detaiied discussions below under

"Revenue Lavcs".} (iii) Provision' has been made for an Income-tax 0fﬁ~
oer to send a certiﬁcate to the Collector of any district
in India in which theassessee possesses property or resides.
At present, the Income-tax Officer can send a certiﬁcate
only to the Collector of the district in which he functions,
and where the certiﬁcate is to be sent toanother Coiiector,
the Collector to whom the certiﬁcate has been sent has to
forward it to the other Collector. This procedure re--
sults in delaying proceedings for recovery. (iv) It is the departmental ractice and it is also con-
venient from the point of View 0 assesse,es---that the power
to grant payments in instalments should rest with the In--
come-'tax Oiﬁcer, and that the power should continue even
after the issue of a certiﬁcate to the Collector. We have
inserted the necessary provisions on the isubject'. (V) The scope of sections 46 (3) and 46(4) , under which,
in areas notiﬁed by the Commissioner, 'arrears can be rea-
lised in the manner provided by the Mxjnﬁcipai Act of the

State, has been narrowed down. Of the various remedies r

provigied by Municipal Acts. 'ch power of distrainf: and
sale IS the only one that is rea y effecﬁve, and that has

1 Vida clause 25(3), App. 1. ' See App. I, clauses 22:, Proviso and 224 for rate, and 223(1) for date. T I; £3-shoﬂam oa'm'mj2Ha1a£vs. Aidilicnal Collector cf 3omb:;r--~(:g55} 28 1.
. I.

' See clause 239, App. I.
' See clauses 929(2) and 2348), App. 3. been speciﬁcally dealt with in the draft'. It will be avail-
able to any Income-tax Officer authorised for the p rpose
by the Commissioner. The procedure to be adopted 1; the
Income-tax Ofﬁcer. in the case of distraint of property
has been dealt with in a separate Schedule. Several Municipal Acts contain provisions for an ap-
plication being made to a Magistrate having jurisdiction
over the area and provide that the Magistrate will §there~
upon collect the tax in the manner provided for the reco~
very of fines or prosecute the defaulter for non-payrxient of
the tax. These powers have in fact never been exercised,
and we think it unnecessary to retain them'. (vi) For expediting recovery, we think that it ould
be desirable to have;a provision enabling the loco e-tax
Officer to apply directly to a court (in whose custodyf; there
is money belonging to the assessee) for payment of the mo--
may in its possession. This will save time, and dolaway
with the necessity of proceedin through the Collector as
at present. We have according y inserted a provisiop' for
the purpose. g (vii) One more mode of -' eovery is recovery by suit.
This is implied under the p 'nt law, but we felt at it
might be useful to ifnake a rspeciﬁc mention of it ' the
Act, and have mentioned it aboordingly'. (viii) At present one of Qhe modes of recovery
imposition of a penalty under section 46 (1) , the ,.- -
penalty imposed not exceedin the tax payable.
ject of this provision is to p am; the assessee from
ing money which belongs to veroment without co pen-.
sating the Government by a of interest for the elay-v
ed payment. Under ﬁle ore' - , it
may happen that while the '
where payment is delayed, ='t may not be --».=.~ in
another case where 'also payment is delayed. It may
also happen that 1111' the case of a particular 
the penalty imposed under safction 46 (1), is remitt
appeal. This, we corlsider, would lead to discrim' tion
between assessees who are V' tlarly situated. The
sion in the Australiari Act in. behalf has appea
us as being more equitable. We 'have, therefore, pro '
for interest at 10 per ent beitg payable by every ~- -
who is 'in default in pent V the amount outst
from the date on whiizh the mount falls due. (We
that the rate of interest shou d be sufficiently high a as

to induce assessees to-_ make prompt payment of arr are.) 2 2.

1 Sccclause 235(5), App. I. -r
' Detailed discussion below under the head "Municipal laws" may bf: seen,

5 Vida clause 235(4), App, I. _ i
* Sec clause Q43 (la), A3: I. '

' Soc clause 230 (x), I.

. 27_

We have also provided' for the interest being waived in

cases where the tax is paid within three months of the
default. The corresponding provisions in the Canadian, U.K.
and Australian Acts may be compared'. (ix) The position 'regarding the action to be taken
for the correction or cancellation of a recovery certiﬁcate
issued by the Income-tax Oﬁicer to the Collector is very
uncertain at present. If after the issue of a. certiﬁcate
some mistake is detected or the amount is reduced or in-
creased or the Income-tax Oﬁicer desires to- withdraw the
certiﬁcate for some reason, the action to be taken is not
easily ascertainable from the Act. _We have. therefore, ad-
ded a provision' to make the position clear. Under the pro-
vision proposed by us, the "assessee cannot challenge the
correctness of a certiﬁcate before the Collector; but he will
have the right to move the Income-tax Officer (who issued
the certiﬁcate) in appropriate cases. We have also provid-
ed for an appeal against an order of an Income-tax Ofﬁcer

rejecting an application of the assessee raising objection to
the certiﬁcate. (x) Regarding section 46 (5) , which confers on the
Income-tax Oﬂicer a power to require the employer of an
assessee to withhold the assessee's sala and remit the
amount to the Income-tax Ofﬁcer towaxtrlls payment of the
assessee's arrears, we feel that the power should not be
available in respect of that portion of the salary which
exempt from attachment under the Civil Procedure Code.
We have changed the provision accordingly'. 69. As regards recovery under revenue Laws, a detail- Revenue
ed discussion of the position appears to be desirable. Sub- Laws-
section (2) of section 46 contains, the fprocedure to be fol-
lowed by the Collector after receipt 0 the certiﬁcate from
the Income-tax Ofﬁcer. The procedure is the same as that

laid down for the recovery of arrears of land revenue in
his State. The proviso to sub-section (2) of section 46 confers
upon the Collector all the powers which a court under the
Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, exercises for the purpose of
recovery of an amount due under a decree. This, of course,

is without prejudice to any other powers of the Collector
in that behalf. [The provisions of sections 46 (3) and 46 (4) will be
discussed later.]

1 See clause 230 (2), App. I.

' Cf section 54 , Canadian 1. T. Act, 194.8 (where the rate is 6 p. c.) and
section 495, U.K.l.T. Act,1g52 (the rate being 3 p. c. and Section 270 ,
Australian Income-tax etc. Act, 1936-1953 (where t c rate is 10 p. c.). 3 Clause 233, App. I.

' Sec clause 235 (2), App. I.

3----1 Law Com. 58. . 70. The powers of the Collector are to be gathered
from the laws relating to the realisation of land revenue
obtaining in the appropriate State, supplemented by the
powers exercisable under,the Code .of Civil Procedure. An
examination of the revenue laws obtaining in the States
now forming' part of India shows that under these laws
the following processes for realization of arrears of revenue
are available. (a) distraint and sale of moveable property of the de-
faulter; ' (b) attachment and sale of immoveable property of
the defaulter; (c) attachment of property belonging to the defaulter
and management thereof; (d) arrest and detention of the defaulter in civil pri-
son. All these modes of recovery do not obtain in all the
States. Further, in the same State, there are variations
depending upon the place of accrual of the revenue ar-
rearsa according as the arrears arose in the capital city or
outsi e. 71. Section 51 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908,
lays down the modes of execution and it contains as. many
as ﬁve -methods of execution of a decree of Civil Court. Sub-
clauses (b), (c) and (d) of that section are alone relevant
for the purpose of income-tax law, and they are :--- (i) attachment and sale. orsale without attachment of
any property (the word property is here used so
as to include moveable and immoveable property); (ii) arrest and detention in prison, and (iii) appointment of a' receiver. 72. It will be seen by a comparison of the modes. avail-
able under the revenue laws with those under the; Civil
Procedure Code that the only additional power which the
Code of Civil Procedure confers is the power to appoint
.a receiver in execution of a decree. The Code of Civil
Procedure lays down in Order XXI the procedure to be

followed in respect of these modes. Revenue laws Aof the

States also lay down the detailed procedure to be allow- -ed by the Collector for realising arrears of land revenue. 73. The revenue laws relevant are :-- _
[Owing to the distribution of States before and after

the S. R. C. Act it has not been possible to attempt a ' lassi- |

ﬁcation oﬁ these Acts on the basis of the States a they
now exist. Some of these Acts apply in one or more States.
The list is also not exhaustive.] 1.'Madras City Land Revenue Act (XII of 1851), read
with the Madras City Land Revenue (Amend-
ment Act (W of 1863?). as 01.:-«ago

Q 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 29 Madras Revenue Recovery Act (II of 1864). . Bombay City Land Revenue Act (II of 1876).
. Bombay Land Revenue Code (V of 1879).
. Bengal Land--Revenue Sales Act (XI of 1859) read

Witgl the Bengal Land revenue Sales Act (VII of
186 ). . Bengal Public Demands Recovery Act (III of 1913).
. Calcutta Land revenue. Act (XXIII of 1850). Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Re-
forms Act, 1950 (I of 1951). Assam Land Revenue Regulation, 1886 (I of 1886). Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act (IV of 1914). Punjab Land Revenue Act (XVII of 1887). Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1954 (II of
1955). '

Hyderabad_ Land Revenue Act (VIII of 1317 Fasli).
Mysore Land Revenue Code, 1888 (IV of 1888). Madhya Bharat Revenue Administration and
Ryotwari Land Revenue and Tenancy Act (66 of
1950). Rajasthan Public Demands Recovery' Act (V of
1952). - Rajasthan Land Revenue Act (XV of 1956). Travancore-Cochin Revenue Recovery Act (VII
of 1951). '

Cogrg) Land and Revenue Regulation, 1899 (I of
1 99 . Vindhya Pradesh Land Revenue and Tenancy Act

1953 (III of 1955). '74. The following analysis gives a summary of the re-
medies available for realisation of arrears of revenue in
each of the States : Madras Revenue Recovery Act. (II of 1864). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property or
management of it. (iii) Arrest and detenticin. 2. Madras City Land Revenue Act (XII of 1851) read
with Madras City Land Revenue (Amendment)

Act (VI of 1867). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property.. II. Bombay Acts. 1. Bombay Land Revenue Code -(V of 1879) (i) Attachment and management of land. (ii) Eorfeiture of the occupancy or alienated hold-
ing. 1 (iii) Distress and sale of moveable property. (iv) Sale of immoveable property. (v) Arrest and imprisonment of the defaulter. 2. Bombay City Land Revenue Act (II of 1876). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property. (iii) Arrest and detention. III. West Bengal Acts V . 1. Bengal Public Demands Recovery Act (III of 1913) (i) Attachment 'and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale or sale only of immoveable
property. (iii) Attachment of a decree. (iv) Arrest and detention. IV. Bihar Acts. 1. Bihar and Orissa Public. Demands Recovery Act
(IV of 1914). ' (i) Attachment and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale or sale alone of immove-
able property. ' . (iii) Arrest and Detention. V. Orissa Acts. 1. Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act (IV of 1914). . As in Bihar. 2. Madras Revenue Recovery Act (II of 1864). As in
Madras 1. 3. Central Provinces and Revenue Act (II of 1917). (i) Arrest and detention. (ii) Attachment and sale of moveable property. ' (iii) Attachment of estate, mahal or land and taking

it under direct management. (iv) Transferring the share of land to another- co-
Sharer. (v) Annuling the settlement of the estate, mahal or
land. ' (vi) Selling estate, mahal or land. (vii) Attaching and selling other immoveable pro-
perty. VI. Madhya Pradesh Acts. -- 1. Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1954 (II 0
1955). (i) Attach-ment and sa1e_of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of holding. (iii) Attachment and sale of other immoveable pro- perty. VII. Punjab Acts. 1. Punjab Land Revenue Act "(XVII of 1887). ' (i) Arrest and imprisonment. (ii) Distress and sale of moveable property. (iii) Transferring the holding. (iv) Attachment of the estate or holding. (v) Annulment of the assessment. (vi) Sale of the estate or holding. (vii) Proceeding against other immoveable property. VIII. Uttar Pradesh Acts. 1. Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Re-
forms Act, 1950 (I of 1951) Sections 58 to 188 (chapters V to VIII) of the United Provinces Land
Eevenue Act, 1901 have been repealed by this

ct. . (i) Arrest and detention. (ii) Attachment and sale of moveable property. (iii) Attachment 'and sale of the holding. (iv) Attachment and of other' immoveable pro-.
perty- J -1 . . at 32 IX. Assam Acts. . 1. Assam Land Revenue Regulation (I of 1886). (i) Sale of moveables. (ii) Attachment of estate and management thereof. (iii) Sale of estate. (iv) Annulment of settlement. (v) Attachment and sale of other immoveable pro-
perty. X. Mysore Acts. 1. Mysore Land Revenue Code 1888 (IV of 1888). ' (i) Forfeiture of the occupancy or alienated hold-
mg. (ii) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (iii) Sale of immoveable property. (iv) Arrest and imprisonment. (V) Attachment of holding (consistin _of entire vil-
lages or shares of villages) , management
thereof. '

XI. Madhya Bharat Acts. 1. Madhya Bharat Revenue Administration and. Kyot-
wari Land Revenue and Tenancy Act (66 of 1950). (i) Attachment and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable ﬁrogéerty
(other than the land in respect of w ic the
arrears have accrued). ' (iii) Attachment and sale of the land. (iv) Taking the land under direct management or
letting it in farm. '

XII. Travancore-Cochin Acts. 1. Travancore-Cochin Revenue Recovery)' Act (V11 of
1951). ' '

_ (i) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and saleof immoveable property. XIII. Rajasthan Acts. 1. Rajasthan Land Revenue Act (15 of 1956). (i) Attachment and sale of. moveable property. (ii) Attachment of the land. (iii) Transfer of such attached land to ya co-sharler. (iv) Sale of such attached land. I (v) Sale of other immoveable property. 2. Ralxjazthan Public Demands Recovery Act (V of
95 ). The same modes as in the Rajasthan Land Revenue (I

Act (15 of 1956). XIV. Hyderabad Acts. 1. Hyderabad Land Revenue Act 'No. VIII of 1317 F. (i) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (ii) Distraint and sale of immoveable property. (iii) Arrest and imprisonment. (iv) Forfeiture of the occupancy. (v) Temporary attachment of village or share of a
village. XV. Vindhya Pradesh. Acts. _ 1. Vindhya Pradesh Land Revenue and Tenancy Act,
1953 (III of 1955). ' (i) Attachment and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of the land in arrears. (iii) Attachment and sale of other Iand. I (iv) Attachment and sale of other imrnoveable pro-
perty. XVI. Coorg Acts. 1. Coorg Land and Revenue Regulation, 1899 (I of 1899).. (i) Arrest and imprisonment. (ii) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (iii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property. 75. The following revenue laws do not provide for
arrest and detention of the defaulter in civil prison when
the amount of revenue due is not paid--- 1. Calcutta Land Revenue Act (XXIII of 1850). 2. Madras City Land Revenue Act (XII -of 1851) read
with Madras City Land Revenue (Amendment)
Act (VI of 1867). \ 3. Assam Land Revenue.Regu1ation, 1886 (1 015.1886). 4. Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1954 (II of
1955). _ 5. Madhya Bharat Revenue Administration and' Ryot-
. - _ wari Land Revenue *nd Tengutcy Act (66 of. 1950). 6. 7. 8.

Municipal
laws. Rajasthan Land Revenue Act (15 of 1956). Tiiagxgzlaricore-Cochin Revenue Recovery Act (VII of

Vindhya Pradesh Land Revenue and Tenancy Act,
1953, (III of 1955). . 76. For the purpose of sub-sections (3) and (4) of sec-
tion 46 it 1s also necessary to have an analysis of the laws

obtaining in the various States for recovery of arrears of

municipal tax or local
is also given below :-- rates. An analysis of these Acts

Bombay District Municipal Act (III of 1901). . Bombay Municipal Corporation Act (III of 1888). '
. Bombay Provincial Municipal

Corporations Act (LIX of 1949). «

. Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act (XVIII of 1925). '
. Madras City Municipal Act (IV of 1919). . Madras District Municipalities Act (V of 1920). . Bengal Municipal Act (XV of 1932). . Calcutta Municipal Act (XXXIII of 1951). . Punjab Municipal Act (III of 1911). ' 10.
. Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act (VII of 1922). 12. 13. 14. Orissa Municipal Act (XXIII of 1950). Assam Municipal Act (I of 1923). United Provinces Municipalities Act (II of 1916). Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act (II
of 1922). City of Nagpur Corporation Act 1948 (II of 1950).
City 0())f Jabbalpore Corporation Act 1948 (III of
195 . . 17. Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act (XJQKVI of

1950) 18. Hyderabad Municipal and Town Committees Act 19. 20.
. Mysore Town Municipalities Act (XXII of 1951). 22. 23. 24.

(XXVII of 1951). Bangalore City Municipal Corporation Act (LXIX
of 1949). Mysore City Municipalities Act (VII of 1933). Rajasthan Town Municipalities Act (XXIII of 1951).
Rewa State Municipalities Act 1946.
United Provinces District Boards Act (X of:1922). i 35 25. Bombay Local Boards,Act (VI of 1923). 26. Madras District Boards Act (XIV of 1920). 27. Rajasthan District Boards Act . (II of 1954). 28.'Mysore Village'Panchayats and District Boards Act
(IV of 1952). ' 29. Punjab District Boards Act (Xx of 1883). ~77. The various remedies available under Municipal Remedies

Acts' are as follows : f°" '°°°'f°'.'Y
of Munici- ) 1.' West Bengal. P31 d'""'

~ 1. The Bengal Municipal Act (xv of 1932). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) If unsuccessful in collecting the_ amount of arrear
by the employment of the ﬁrst mode, recovery
may be made by certiﬁcate under the Bengal

. Public Demands Recovery Act (III of 1913). (iii) Instead of or in the case of failure to realise the
amount by adopting the ﬁrst two modes, the ar- -
rears may be recovered by bringing a suit in a
court of competent jurisdiction against the person
liable for the arrears. 2. The Calcutta Municipal Act (XXXIII of 1951). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) If unsuccessful by adopting the first mode, the
arrears may be recovered by a certiﬁcate under
the B§i)1gal Public Demands Recovery Act (III
of 191 . (iii) Instead of or in the case of failure to realise the
amount by adopting the ﬁrst two modes, the ar-
rears may be recovered by bringing a suit in a
court of competent jurisdiction. (iv) If any tax (other than the consolidated rate) is
due the Commissioner may either prosecute the
defaulter or proceed to realise the amount by
distraint and sale of the moveables. ' II. Madras. 1. The Madras City Municipal Act (IV of 1919). (i) Distress and sale of the moveable property. (ii) If distraint or sufficient' distraint is impracticable
the defaulter is prosecuted before a Magistrate. (iii) If the defaulter has heft India or cannot be found
the amount may be; recoveijed as if it were an
arrear of land revenue. _ 36 2. The Madras District Municipalities Act (V of 1920). (i) Distress and sale of moveable' property. (ii) If distraint or suﬁicient distraint is impracticable
Ehe defaulter may be prosecuted before a Magis-
rate. (iii) If the defaulter has left India or cannot be found
the amount may be recovered as if it were an
arrear of land revenue. 3. The Madras District Boards Act (XIV of 1920). . (i) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (ii) If distraint or sufficient distraint is impracticable
the defaulter may be prosecuted before a Magis-
trate. III. Bombay. 1. Bombay District Municipal Act (III of 1901). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveableproperty. (iii) If the above mentioned powers have been sus-
pended by the State Government, sums due may
be recovered on application to a Magistrate (by
distress and sale of moveable property within
the limits of the jurisdiction of such Magis-
trate). (iv) If the person liable for payment of any sum
(other than octroi or toll) is residing outside the
State or has not sufficient property in the State
then the amount may be recovere as if it were
an arrear of land revenue under the provisions
of the Revenue Recovery Act, 1890 . 2. The Bombay Municipal Corporation Act (III of
1888). 4 I - (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sales of immoveable property. (iii) Suit in a court of competent jurisdiction. 3. The Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act (LIX of 1949). \ (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property. (iii) Attachment of rent. ' (iv) Suit in a dnurt of fompetent jurisdiction. 33? 4. The gombay Municipal Boroughs Act (XVIII of
192 ). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immbveable property. (iii) Recovery as arrears of land revenue (if the per-
son liable is residing outside the State and has
no property in the State). 5. Bombay Local Boards Act (VI of 1923). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Ap lication to a Magistrate for recovery (distress
an sale of moveable property). IV. Bihar. 1. The Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act (VII of 1922). (i) Distress and sale of the moveable property. (ii) Recovery as a public demand payable to the
Chairman under the Bihar and Orissa Public

Demands Recovery Act (IV of 1914). (iii) Suit. ' i
V. Orissa. 1. The Orissa (Municipal Act (XXIII of 1950). (i) Distress and sale of the moveable property. (ii) As an arrear of land revenue. (iii) Suit. VI. Punjab. . 1. The Punjab Municipal Act (III of 1911). (i) Property tax may be recovered as an arrear of
land revenue (without the power of arrest of
the defaulter). (ii) Application to the Magistrate (by distress and
sale of moveable property). 2. The Punjab District Boards Act (XX of 1883). (i) Application to a Magistrate (by distress apd sale
of moveable property). ' A (ii) As arrears of land revenue. »
VII. Uttar Pradesh. .-- 1. United Provinces Municipalities Act (II of 1916). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Bringing a suit in a 'court of competent jurisdic- tion. 2. United Provinces District Boards Act (X of 1922). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Bringing a suit in a Court of a competent juris-
diction. VIII. Assam. 1. Assam Municipal Act (I of 19 )3. (i) Attachment and sale of movable property.
' S é 38 (ii) liringing a suit in a court of competent jurisdic-
1011. . IX. M adhya Pradesh. 1. The Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act
(II of 1922). (i) R_.ecove_ry_ on application to a Magistrate having
]uI'1Sd1Cl'.10n (by distress and sale of moveable
property). - (ii) Application to the Deputy Commissioner to re-
cover arrears (of property tax only) as if they
were an arrear of land revenue. X. Hyderabad. 1. The Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act (XXXVI
of 1950). (i) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (ii) Attachment and sale of immoveable property. (iii) Attachment of rent (for property tax only). (iv) Suit. '

. 2. Hyderabad Municipal and Town Committees Act

(XXVII of 1951). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. XI. Mysore. 1. Mysore Town Municipalities Act (XXII of 1951). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Prosecution before a Magistrate. (iii) Application to a Magistrate (Distress and ' sale I

of moveable property). 2. Mysore Village Panchayats and District Boards Act
(IV of 1952). ' (i) Distraint and sale of moveable property. (ii) Suit. ' . 3. Mysore City Municipalities Act (VII .of 1933), (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. 4. City of Bangalore Municipal Corporation Act
(LXIX of 1949). -- (i) Distress and sale of the moveable property. (ii) Prosecution before a Magistrate. (iii) Recovery as an arrear of land revenue (if the
person liable has left Mysore and cannot be
found). ' . - XII. Rajasthan. 1. Rajasthan Town Municipalities Act (XXIII of 1951). (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Application to a Magistrate (distress and sale of
moveable property). 2. Rajasthan District Boards Act (II of 1954).' v (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Bringing a suit. XIII. Vtndhya Pradesh. 1. Rewa State Municipalities Act, 1946. (i) Distress and sale of moveable property. (ii) Bringing a suit. 78. From the foregoing analysis it is clear that the re-
medies available in the different States under the revenue

laws are not uniform and the procedure also varies in some

details. 79. In Purshottam Govindjfs case' the Supreme Court Ne_ed . for. held that section 46(2) is valid and does not offend articles "_mf°'m"Y'.
21, 22 and 14 cf the Constitution. Chandrasekhara Iyer J .,
though he agreed with the majority view, observed that
"for the enforcement of the levy of a Central Tax like the
income--tax there should be uniformity of procedure and
identity of consequences from non-payment". The learned
Chief Justice in his judgment compared the Provisions of
different laws adopted by the different States for the reco-
very of land revenue and observed that even in "the same
State there were two procedures to which defaulting
assessees could be subjected according as they were in or
outside the city of Bombay". The learned Chief Justice
also pointed out the variation in the terms of imprisonment
provided in the State Acts and that in some State (e.g.
Assam) there was no provision for imprisonment. Though
section -46(2) was upheld as valid, a perusal of the judg-
ment convinces one that uniformity is desirable and that
the observations of Chandrasekhara Iyer J. are justiﬁed. 80. We have therefore thought it incumbent upon us to Action -
codify the law in this respect and include it in a separatepoﬂd R¢V°';
Schedule. The judgment ()f the Supreme Court also gives ""°1""'.')'
an authoritative interpretation of the proviso to section
46(2) . The meaning of the proviso maybe stated, in the
words of the Supreme Court, as fo11ows:-- - 81. A power is distinct from the procedure for the exer-
cise of the power. The procedure laid down by the Code
for the exercise of the powers enumerated in section 51 is
contained in Order 21 of the Code. The revenue laws of
each state lay down the powers as well as the procedure.
As held by the Supreme Court, the Proviso confers only

additional powers on the Collector for the better -and more effective application of the only mode of

Action Pro- posed (Muni- .<:ipal laws). recovery authorised by the body of sub-section (2) of sec-
tion 46. The only additional power contained in section 51 ,
C.P.C. is the power to appoint a receiver in execu-
tion of a decree. In some of the Revenue Acts, the Collector
possesses the power to attach an estate or a village or a
part of it and mana e such attached property through his
agent. Section 51 o the Civil Procedure Code is not res-
tricted in its scope and a receiver may be appointed in any
case even without attachment of the property. This addi-
tional power is also now included by us in the proposed

draft. 82. The process enforceable for the recovery of an
arrear of municipal tax and'local rate, referred to in sub-
sections (3) and (4)_of section 46 , has nothing to 'db with
the Collector. Distraint and sale of moveable property
(and in some states attachment and sale of immovea e pro-
perty also) or prosecution before a magistrate treat'. .the
default in payment of the tax or the rate as an ence
and imposing a ﬁne and recovery of the arrear and t e ﬁne
under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure C e (S. 386) or recovery of the arrear as if it were a ﬁne i posed
by a criminal court, are the modes laid down. The Acts
which contain provisions for prosecution before a imagis-
trate or recovery of the arrears by application to the Magis-
trate for distraint and sale of moveable property are de-
tailed below :-- - 1. Rajasthan Town Municipalities Act (XXTII of
1951) S. 97 (Only if there is suspension of the
other powers by the Government). '

1 I. L. R. 1950 Born. 350,155. .41 2. Calcutta Municipal Act (33 of 1951). 3. Punjab Municipal Act (III of 1911), ( S. 81 applica-
tion to Magistrate). 4. Madras City Municipal Act (IV of 1919) Rules 21(2)
and 29--B of Schedule IV to the -Act. 5. Madras District Municipalities Act (V of 1920),
Rules 21(2) and 36 of Schedule IV. 6. City of Bangalore Municipal Corporation Act (LXIX
of 1949) [Rules 30(2) and 39 of Schedule III]. '.7. Mysore Town Municipalities Act (XXII of 1951) Section 96 . 8. Bombay'District Municipal Act_ (III of 1901) S. 88 (Only if there is suspension of the.other powers of
recovery by the Government). 9. Bombay I...oca1 Boards Act (VI of 1923) S. 115 (Only
if the other powers of recovery are suspended by
the State Government). 10. Madras District Boards Act (XIV of 1920), Rules
33(2) and 39 of Schedule IV. 11. Punjab District Boards Act (XX of 1883) S. 58-B

[Only in the case of other sums (other than local
rates and taxes) due]. 12. Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act (II
of 1922). Section 77 . 83. All the processes are enforceable by the Income-
tax Ofﬁcer if the requirements of sub-sections (3) and (4) -of section 46 are satisﬁed. 84. In the draft we have restricted the power of the
Income--tax Officer to the mode of recovery by distraintyand
sale of moveable property. Even this power is, we are told,
seldom invoked except in a few places. We have omitted
the power to approach the magistrate either to recover the
arrears as a fine or to prosecute the defaulter, as such a

power is never in practice exercised. The procedure is cir- -cumlocutory and is not suited to modern conditions of

.society. The existing power of the Income-tax Officer to

make a gamishee order is retained. 85. It may be of interest in this connection to mention 3' edge. in
that in other countries the remedies for/recovery of In. at «Coun-
come-tax are very simple as could be seerf from the follow- "1"- ing analysis :--- United Kingdom--U. K. Income-tax Act 1952. (a) Distraint by Collector is. 76). (b) Recovery of small amounts of tax in court of Sum-
'r7iéz)1ry Jurisdiction as if it were' a civil debt (Sec. Chapter XIX
Tax deemed
to have been

. di ._
paxdon 9 (c) Suit in the High Court ( Sec. 79 ).
United States. (Internal Revenue Code 1954)
Chapter 64--Collection

Sec. 6331--Levy and distraint and sale of property
whether real, or personal; tangible or in-
tangible. Commonwealth of Australia. Income-tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment
Act 1936-53 (a) Section S. 209- -Suit. _ (b) Gamishee Order by the Commissioner---- S. 218 .
Canada. A '
Income-(tax Act 1948 (Secs. 118 to 121) (a) Certiﬁcate by the Minister is registered in the Ex- - chequer Court and such registration has the force - of decree and is executable by the Court ( S. 119 ). (b) Garnishment ( Sec. 120 ). (c) Seizure of Chattels ( Sec. 121 ).
South Africa. ' V
The Income-tax Act 1941 ( Sec. 85 ) (a) Statement by the Commissioner of the tax duly
ﬁled with a clerk or registrar of a court is treated
as a judgment and enforced by the Court as such. _ (b) Proceedings by the Commissioner for the seques.
tration of the estate of the tax-payer. (c) Enforcement by a Magistrate. Ceylon. ' The Income-tax Ordinance Sec. 79 (a) Commissioner issues a certiﬁcate and is enforced
by seizure and sale of moveable property. A (b) Certiﬁcate' to the District Court who would en.
force it by way of execution against the moveable
and immoveable property of the defaulter. (c) Proceedings for recovery before a magistrate. (d) Gamishee Order. 86. A portion of the tax paid by the company is deem.
ed to have been paid by the shareholder under sections
18(5) and 49B. The tax paid by the company in res ect of
dividends is thus given a ,sp"e¢ia1 treatment in the 4 ct in

J

i 43 the assessment of the shareholder. We felt that it Would
be useful and convenient to bring together the various pro-
visions of the Act pertaining to such treatment. The pro-
visions of the Act pertaining to the tax deemed to have
been paid in dividends have, therefore, been gathered to-
gether in this chapter. 87. The
funds, have

To avoid delay in refunds. We have inserted a provi-
sion' [on the analogy of section 57(3) of the Canadian
Act] that where the refund order is made more than three
months after the application for refund, the Central Gov-
ernment shall pay interest at the. rate of 2%. A similar
recommendation was made by the Income-tax Investiga-
tion Commission". We have also made it clear' that where
refund is due as a result of an appellate order or as a
result of decision by the High Court, no separate applica-
tion is necessary. . provisions of thepresent Act pertaining to re-
been grouped together in this Chapter. 88. All the provisions pertaining to appeals have been
brought together in this Chapter. 89. On principle, it may appear objectionable that an
agency which is under the direct control of the Central
Board of Revenue should be vested with jurisdiction to
hear appeals from the orders of the Income-tax Oﬁicer.
Justice should not only be done, but should appear to be
done and should inspire conﬁdence in the persons concem-
ed. - It is an elementary principle of the law that a person
should not be a judge in his own cause. The Appellate
Assistant Commissioner, being under the direct control of
the Central Board of Revenue,
a satisfactory authority to hear and dispose of appeals
against the orders of the Income-tax Oﬁicer. One sugges-
tion that was made long ago was that the Appellate Assis-
tant Commissioner should be placed under the control of

the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, so as to make him in- dependent of the authority and inﬂuence of the Central
Board of Revenue. This question was examined by the
Income-tax Investigation Commission, and that Commis-
sion observed' that there Was no reason to think that by
reason of' the subordination of the Appellate Assistant
Commissioners to the Central Board of Revenue, they were
inﬂuenced by the Central Board of Revenue in their deci-
sions or that they were in any manner partial in the dis-
charge of their duties, or that their judgments were
affected by any considerations irrelevant to the decisions
of the appeal. No doubt, in spite of this conclusion the
Commission did make a recommendation that there should

'Vida clause 2 52, App. 1. 1956-57 °
Appeals' instituted inthe year 1956-57
APPCRI by Appeal by
asscssee depgnmgm
Bombay Bench A . . 2,636 ,38o
Bench B . . . . - ' . ,
Bench C - - . . Allahabad Bench I , I93 55
Madras Bench 1,823 75
Calcutta Bench I:185 I43
' Delhi-Bench 908 9: . 'sin which High Courts
€111: number of cases

u/s 48 [Out of the applications rejected by the Tribunal, 205. cases were taken up to the High Court under section 66(2) ]. 92. The average, _therefore, of the appeals instituted
before the Tribunal may be taken up roughl at 10,000 per
year. The largest number of appeals is rom Bombay.
Madras, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal also contribute a large
number of appeals. In other States, except in Bihar where
the number is nearly 600 per year, the number of appeals
instituted is comparatively small. 93. The Tribunal is constituted the ﬁnal fact--ﬁnding
authority for four taxes,--income-tax, wealth-tax, expendi-
ture-tax and gift-tax, and it is also proposed to make it
the ﬁnal fact-ﬁnding authority under the Estate Dut Act.
We are constrained to observe that men of the re§uisite
calibre and independence are not being recruitedf r dis-
charging so heavy a responsibility as that of the ﬁnal fact-
ﬁding authority under the new pattern of taxation. ;There
are many complaints that the disposal of appealsby the
Appellate Tribunal is very unsatisfactory for a variety of
reasons. Often, the judicial and independent app roach
which is necessary in the ﬁnal fact-ﬁnding authority, is not
displayed by the Tribunal. In several cases the determina-
tion of complicated questions of fact and law is done! in a
very perfunctory manner. Very often, the Tribunal does
not clearly record its ﬁndings of fact or its reasons for arriv- ing at its ﬁndings. In a number of cases, factual or legal" 94. The following extracts from the decisions of courts Fixtftclsﬁom
will show how unsatisfactorily the Appdlate Tribunals have -'"dg"'°'"" Hira Mills Ltd. Cawnpore vs. I. T. 0., Cawnpore'. Badar Shoe Stores, In re.'

"We deprecate the practice, which is becoming too
common, of omitting a sufficient statement of facts from
the statement of the case and of referring this Court to a
miscellany of other documents for the collection of the full
facts necessary for determination of the question of law
submitted, and we shall take the op Vrtunity of referring
to the unfortunate consequences -of th s practice at a later
stage .......... .." ' P. M. Huthee Singh & Sons Ltd. vs. C.I.T .'

"I must point out here that both in the statement of
case and in the judgment there are certain inaccuracies.
When a fact-ﬁnding authority is in the position of the
Tribunal (whose ﬁndings of fact are considered conclusive),
it is always very desirable forthem to. be accurate in their
statement of facts. I would like to jdfm', _the learned Chief
Justice in emphasizing the duty castiiipon the Ap ellate
Tribunal with regard to ﬁndings of ficts. Under t e Act
it is the ﬁnal fact-ﬁnding authority and I think it is the
duty of the Tribunal when they submit a statement of
case to the High Court to state the facts clearly, carefully

'(ig45) 13 I. T. R. 203 at 206. K1946) 14 I. T. R. 417 at 427. '(x94.6) I4. I.T.R. 431 at 4.33. *(i946) 14. I.T.R. 653 at 659. and precisely. After all the High Court only exercises an
advisory jurisdiction. Its jurisdiction is to advise the Tri-
bunal on questions of law submitted to it and that advisory
jurisdiction cannot be exercised usefully unless the fact-
ﬁnding authority submits the facts carefully, clearly and
accurately. I am sorry to say that in the reference with
which we are dealing both in the statement of case and
in the judgment there are several inaccuracies which in
some cases are patent. A little more care would have
been sufﬁcient to make the Tribunal realise that the state-
ment of facts prepared by them was not as correct and
as satisfactory as it should have been. I hope that in
future the Tribunal will bear this in mind when preparing
the statement of case". Messrs. Gobindaram Bros. Ltd. vs. C.I.T .'

"The supplemental case returned to us by the Tribunal,
and which is now before us is highly unsatisfactory. The
Tribunal appears to be ,far more concerned with excusing
the statements of factlin the ﬁrst case, which are unques-
tionably contradictory, than with complying with the direc-
tioni of this Court given under Section 66(4) of the Income-
tax ct. - Bikaner Trading Company, Calcutta vs. C.I.T .'

"We have so far endured with patience the type of
statements of cases which have been submitted to 'this
Court in connection with the references that have come
up this session, but we think that the limit has been passed
and we ought to make some observations.' One common

feature -of these statements of cases is that the appeal was'

heard by two members, whereas the statement of the case
in almost every case was drawn up by different members.
In drawing up the statement, they do not seem to have

10946) :4. I.T.R. 764, at 770. '(1953) 24 I.T.R. 410 at 422. 51'

always considered it necessary to refer to the appellate
order, nor necessary to be exact in the statements they
made, n9r necessary to make a full statement of the rele-
vant facts.'. Most of the statements of cases are sketchy in
the extreme and, were one to rely upon them alone, it would
be impossible to answer any question at all. It has been 'a
frequent experience this session to ﬁnd two members of a
Tribunal deciding a particular case in a particular manner
and one of those members, acting with a third member,
stating a case for this Court which differed materially from
the case made and found at the hearing of the appeal. We
shall not say, out of respect for the Tribunal, that_ the
members have acted in a careless manner, but we feel
bound to say that the manner in which they have dischar-
ged their duty of drawing up statements of cases for this
Court can only be called carefree". Calcutta Co. Ltd _vs. C.I.T.'. C.I.T. West Bengal vs. Hanwman Prasad Bagria '. (Italics are ours). Dhirajilal Giridharilal vs. C.I.T., Bombay',

"It is apparent from the following quotation from the
judgment of the Tribunal that not only was its approach
to the question raised before it tainted with suspicion, but
it took into consideration a number of circumstances based
purely on conjectures and surmises and for which there
was not a scintilla of evidence on the record". 30953) 24 1»-T-R- 454 at 459-
'(I953) 24 I-T~R- 495 at 497, 493; 1(x_o54.) 26 I. T. R. 7:16 at 739 (S. ¢.). i 52 Shantikumar Namtham Morarji vs. C.I.T .'

"There is a ﬁnding given by the Accountant Member
in the following words : "We understand that -no part of
the borrowings were-utilised in the agency ﬁrm business
and therefore the interest paid was not incurred for the
purposes of the business". Mr. Palkhivala has rightly
quarelled with the nature of this ﬁnding. With res ct to
the learned Accountant Member. it is difﬁcult to nder-
stand how a judicial tribunal' can record a ﬁnding the
language in which this so-called ﬁnding has been rec rded.
The duty of a fact-ﬁnding tribunal is to ﬁnd facts, and not
to understand that certain faqts may exist or may have
been established". ' Indian Steel and Wire Product Ltd. vs. C.I.T ." The Bhopal Trading Co., Kanpur vs. C.I.T .'

"We are not undertaking the responsibility of fr" ming
the questions ourselves as the statement of the case also
the appellate orders are. as 75 too frequently the case,
wholly unsatisfactory". -- _! C.l.T. vs. Malchand Surana'. i
"It is perfectly clear that the Tribunal failed to Eapply
themselves to the real question before them and " deed
their order, one regrets to ﬁnd, does not indicate tha they
had any appreciation of what' the real question was..', .... .. '

1(1g55) 27 I. T. R. 69, at 80 (Bombay H. C.).
'(1955) 27 I. T. R. 43(j*at p. 445 14.46 (Calcutta H. C.). '(1955) 28 I. T. R. 4.7 q , at p. 4.8. ( lahabad H. C.).
r 95 (Calcutta H. C.). 95. The present procedure leads to delay also. If the
Tribunal refuses to make a reference to the High Court
where it should have done so, the asesisee or the depart-
ment have had to go to the High Count under section 66(2) and this has led to considerable delay in giving a ﬁnality
to the assessment. The extracts given above would also
show that the statements of cases submitted by the Tribu-
nals to the High Court are scrappy, with the result that
the High Court has had to ask for a supplementary state- ment in several cases. 96. For these reasons we are strongly of the opinion Ab§liti°n 01'

A that the Appellate Tribunal should be abolished and that a 'h°*'APP°"""°

direct appeal should be provided both on questions of fact :;:E$'alpr°'

as well as of law to the High Court fmm the orders of the
Appellate Assistant Commissioner. The assessee should
have the satisfaction that the facts of the case and the law
applicable to it have been examined b a competent autho-
rity. It would also save the time ol, the High Court, as
it would avoid the necessity -for a reference to the High
Court on a question of law either under section 66(1) or
under section 66(2) . We have therefore, provided' an ap-
peal to the High Court from the decisions of the Appellate
Assistant Commissioner. Where the amount in dispute is
Rs. 7,500 or more, the appeal" will be on fact as well as
0? law. In other cases the appeal will be only on questions
0 law. «

It is stated that the disposal by the High Courts may
cause delay, particularly as the rules of the High Courts
require printing in ﬁrst appeagls. To obviate this difficulty,
we suggest that by a rule made by the appropriate autho-
rity the printing of records inésuch cases may be dispensed
with, and the Department and the assessee may be allowed
to furnish typed copies of papers on which they intend to
rely at the time of the hearing of the appeal before the
High Court. 97. We have also examined the ﬁnancial implications
of the proposal and we are satisﬁed that it does not involve
the States in any extra expenditure, as all expenditure.
necessitated by the appointment of more Judges in the
High Court and the necessary' staff can be met by the fee.
that will be levied on the appeals instituted in the High
Court. At present the fee is Rs. 100 in case of appeals
to the Appellate Tribunal and, the ariiount realised in the
year 1955-56 by the Tribunal. is Rs. 8,46,390 which, of
course, includes also fees for Reference Applications. (The
department does not pay any fee when it ﬁles an appeal
or asks for a reference). The expenditure incurred' in
that year for the Appellate Tribunal. is Rs. 8,7-4.684. We
have not got the ﬁgures for 1956-57. Even if the fee is res-.
tricted to Rs. 100 per appeal and if 10,000 appeals are ﬁled,
all the States will get an ingome }Rs\ 10,00,000. If 20

' Wide c1a'usc 260, App. I.

Appointment
and training
of Appellate
Assistant Co- mmissioners. Judges are appointed for all the High Courts, the total
salary payable per year will be Rs. 8.40,000 leaving a sur-
plus for the expenditure on the additional staff that would
be required by the appointment of additional Judges. _ If we consider the position State-wise, the highest ins-
titution of appeals is in Bombay and may be taken rough-
ly at 2,000 appeals per year. The Bombay State will get a
fee of Rs. 2,00,000. Even if four more Judges are appointed
their total salary per year will be Rs. 1,68,000, leaving a
surplus for the additional staff. Similarly, Madras may re-
quire three Judges. Bengal may require two Judges
and Uttar Pradesh may require two or three
Judges. In other States like Bihar and Punjab an addi-
tional Judge may be required. It will, therefore, not en-
tail any additional .expenditure from State funds which
could not be met from the fee leviable on the appeals ins-
tituted in the respective State High Courts. As observed
already, the work in which the High Courts are now enga-
ged namely disposing of references either under section
66(1) or under section 66(2) will pro tanto be reduced, and
this is an additional advantage for the High Courts. 98. Rules will necessarily have to be made to regulate
the procedure for the disposal of the appeals expeditious-
ly. Delay is occasioned by the printing of records which
will not be necessary. If the rule making power is confer-
red on the various High Courts there may not be uniformi-
ty in that behalf. We, therefore, think that it will be more
appropriate to confer the rule making power upon -the
Supreme Court' as was done in the case of the Companies
Act, 1956 . As regards the levy of the fees and the scales
which are to be prescribed, it may not be possible for the
Centre to prescribe the fee. Some method should be adopt-
ed to make the Court-fee payable on the memorandft) of
appeal presented to the High Court in such matters uni rm
in all the States. We have not therefore made any deﬁinite
proposal in this behalf. . 99. In view of the recommendation made by us for-the
abolition of the Appellate Tribunal, and as appeals would
henceforth lie to the High Court from the Appellate 'As-
sistant Commissioners' orders, We consider that Gov rn-
ment should ensure that the posts of Appellate Assis ant
Commissioners are held by experienced and senior oiﬁders. 100. It will be more satisfactory if experienced :and
senior oiﬁcers of the Department hear appeals. ; 101. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner shduld
also, in our opinion, be given some training in judicial
practice and procedure by being attached to a Judge of a
Civil Court, z'.e., a District Judge, for a period of, say, three
months. This will be very necessary because the order, of
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner should be writﬂen,

'Sec-.. clause 277, App. 1. ' 55 more or less, like a judgment'and should make mention of
the points for determination, and the ﬁndings thereon. We'
consider that if Appellate Assistant Commissioners are
given this type of training, it will inspire greater conﬁ-
dence in the litigant public. 102. It may be recalled in this connection that when
the Appellate Tribunal was notgin existence, i.e., prior to
1939, the reference to the High Court, though directed
against the order of the Assistant Commissioner, was made
by the Commissioner of Income-tax himself. Though an
officer of the status of Commissioner of Income-tax may
not hear all appeals, it would be desirable if appeals ' '
against assessments of incomes in excess of rupees one
lakh were heard by the Commissioner of Income-tax or by
an officer of equal status. If this recommendation is ac-
cepted, the necessary amendments may be made in the
Act. Other appeals should be heard by senior oﬁicers
Whose scale of pay is attractive. We would recommend for
Appellate Assistant Commissioners a «scale of pay inter-
mediate between the present Appellate Assistant Commis-
sioner's scale and the present Commissioner's scale. 103. As second appeals would lie (if our proposal isC°mmis5i°n- accepted) to the High Court and as the smaller assessees "'5'

may not be able to afford the expense involved in such an

appeal, we would recommend the free use by commission- ers of Income-tax of their judicial powers to give relief to

the smaller assessees. In the case of smaller assessees the
Commissioner should treat an application in revision as an

appeal. Administrative instructions to this effect may be

given by the Central Board of Revenue. ' 104. The.other important change which has been made other chan- in this Chapter is the provision' for appeals against all 868-
orders of the Income-tax Ofﬁcers which are prejudicial to

the assessee, e.g., an order under section 35 , the levy of

interest under section 18A (6), an order refusing to correct

a recovery certiﬁcate, an order refusing to treat the asses- see as not in default and other similar orders. 105. The provisions of the existing Act relating to pen- C b

a p t c r
alties have been grouped together in this Chapter. Pm§t'gsI°im: 1See clause 254.,sub-clauses (d), 1j ), (k) +11), App. I. - d t Fund" tax proceedings. The Income-tax Officer exercises wers
which are often far more_ responsible than the powers'simi-
larly exercised by a civil court or a criminal court. hen
persons other than lawyers are not allowed to appear fore
the civil court and the criminal court, there is no reason
why persons who are not entitled to appear beforeYsuch
courts should be permitted to appear in an income-tax, pro-
ceeding. An exception should however be made in favour
of chartered accountants as they assist companies in the
maintenance of accounts. Moreover, they have certain obli-
gations under the Companies Act in relation to the prE}>ara-
tion of the accounts of companies. We have therefor pro-
vided that appearance in income-tax proceedings be confined
to lawyers and chartered accoilntants. 1

In order to protect the interests of those personsgwho
are, under the provisions of the present Act entitl d to
appear in the income-tax proceedings, we have provide for
the continuance of their right to appear in the incom tax
proceedings. We have however, provided that they s ould
be registered as Income-tax Practitioners. We are al 0 of
the opinion that there should be a disciplinary bo to
control such Income-tax practirtibners. We have ther f-ore
made suitable changesin the provisions of sections 59 and 61 ' '

(2) Service of notices.--We have provided for the ode
of service of notice under the Act in the assessmen of
dissolved ﬁrms, dissolved associations and dis ted
H.U.Fs. also. (3) Rules.'--We have added a provision authorisin the
Central Board of Revenue to make rules relating to the
issue of tax verification certiﬁcates. Such certiﬁcates ave
been found useful in practice ' d it is desirable to ace

them on a statutory footing. e have also added a p ovi- _

sion for making rules relating to the constitution of an
authority to take disciplinary -action against Incom tax

practitioners (other than lawyers and Chartered Accoun-'

tants). 110. The Schedules which we propose to annex to» the
Act are as under :-- L
First Schedule--re1ptes to iisurance business.' {
'Sec clause 324, App. I,; d clause 9, ibid. I
'See notes on the Sched , for the , ngcs made.
. l '

Schedules. Second Schedule.--Brings together in one place the pro-
visions pertaining to the procedure to be adopted by the
Collector for the recovery of tax on a "certiﬁcate issued to
him. 1

Third Schedule.--Deals with the procedure to be adopt-
ed by the Income-tax Officer who is empowered by the
Commissioner to recover tax by distraint and sale of mov-
able property. 111. In the preparation of notes on clauses we have Scheme of
departed from the method adopted by us in our previous "OW! 011
reports. In the previous reparts we have followed the ""'°s'
order of the sections in the Act under rwision and wherever
new provisions were suggested, they were dealt with in
appropriate places. This method could not be followed in
revising this Act (Income-tax Act ) as 'we have reshuﬂied
all the sections and sub-sections of the Act. Hence the order
of the clauses in the proposed draft has-been followed in
preparing the Notes on clauses. 112. A word may be said about the increased number Incr asc in
of the sections in the draft.' The U.K. Act of 1952 contains nu"? ' °f
532 sections and 25 Schedules. The existing Income-tax5°°"°"" a summary of changes of importance proposed by us which '
have been embodied in the draft in Appendix I, and the
second containing a list of recommendations made by us
which have not been embodied in thefidfaft in Appendix I. '

'The draft proposed by us contains can clniuisiand Three Schedules. Existing Sec. -2
Draft Cl. 2(5)

Existing Sec. 2.
Draft Cl. 2

Existing Sec. Existing Sec. 2. (8)
Draft Cl. 2. (25)- Existing. Sec. 3.

Draft C1. (1). 3.

Existing Sec. 4l5raftf?t) (81. 12

I(:)E4)f2 (3)

Existing Sec. ) ( ')
I)rEt3"t CIT'! I
(15)- Existing Sec. 4 (3) (x)
para. (b)

& (d): able in the case of a business, held on trust, stbject
to the conditions given in the existing proviso (b); (ii) it has also been made clear that the exemptibn is
available to business carried on by institutions not
subject to trust. = '

With reference to the exemption for special allowances

or beneﬁts granted to an employee to meet expenses wholly
and necessarily incurred in the performance of the ties
of an office or employment, the words "who1ly and ces- sarily" have been

replaced by the words "wholly an ex-
clusively". The requirement of necessity has been om tted. The exemption for income received by a Consul Gene-
ral, Consul or Trade Commissioner etc. is at present avail- able to Indian citizens also. A requirement that the person_
' Draft C1. u so exempted should not be an Indian citizen has been added,
(7) (ii)(_ )and on the lines of e

sting section §(3)(x) (c) and (e). , 59 The exemption in respect of -salaries of members of Existing 5°'.-I
Nepalese military forces sewing with the _armed forces of d (*3
India or of members of Indian State forces, has been omitted the d,aﬂ)_

as obsolete. The exemption in respect of income received by an Existing Sec.
employee of foreign enterprise is at present available to 4 (3) (""0
Indian citizens. Under the draft it has been conﬁned to Rfag) 01-
foreigners. f

The exemption in respect of salaries received by foreig- Existing,S6C-
ners for services rendered as technicians has. been 4 (3) "ml

extended to services rendered before the actual commnce-- ggaﬁ 1' " The condition for residence in the case of a person who Existing 35?-
has been"'1'n India within four preceding years, at present, fﬁaféaél ('*2
requires the presence of that person in India "otherwise ' '
than by an occasional or casual visit". This condition has
been made more speciﬁc, by requiring the person - to be
present for at least 30 days in the 'previous year concerned. The existing provision authorising the Income-tax Ofﬁ. Exittiilg Sep-
cer to treat a person as a resident if "he is satisﬁed that 4A 4") ("')
'the person is likely-to remain in India for not less than Dr?" 01- '5-
three years has been omitted. ' '

A provision has been made to the effect that a person Existing Sec-
who is resident in respect of one source of income is to be ﬁéft Cl 6
treated as resident for all other sources. ' '

A new provision regardin transfer of cases from one E ?('i;'3 3"'
Appellate Assistant Commissgoner to another has been CL ,3}
added. (3). (b). With reference to the power of the Board or the Com- Existing Sec-
missioner to transfer cases from one Income-tax Officer to ii) ?(f7*'gl
another, a provision has been added requiring opportunity (ft ' I32
to be given to the assessee before the transfer is ordered 3

(except in special cases). It is proposed to abolish the Ap _e11ate Tribunal. Ap- Existing 366'-
peals from the Appellate Assistant gommissioner will lie 53? . 'd' '
to the High Court. . . ( mu' ) . Salary received from foreign Government has been Existing 560';
speciﬁcally made taxable under the head "Salary". 7 (0

(I): Existing Sec- Income assessable under the head "Interest on securi-
graft C] V18 ties" is at present chargeable if it is "receivable". This has
' ' been replaced by a provision charging such interest when
"received". The receipt basis has thus been substituted in
place of the present provision. Existing Sec. Sums expended for realising interest on tax-free secu-
gr f Cl rities have been disallowed as a deduction in computing the
(ﬁ)'_" ' 2' income chargeable under the head "Interest on securities". Existing Sec- Interest paid on moneys borrowed for the purpose of

graft Cl 2' investment in tax-free securities has been made inadmissible (m)_ ' as a deduction in computing income under the head "Interest
on securities". Existing Sec. Reasonable sums spent on realising interest on ta '-free
:3) at, C1 securities are proposed to be allowed to be deducte , for
' ' "°" the purpose of super-tax, in computing income char able
under the head "Interest on Securities". If money has; been
borrowed for investment in such securities, then in erest
paid on the money so borrowed is also proposed to e al- lowed to be similarly deducted. ; Existing Sm Rules for furnishing guidance to the Income-tax Qfﬁcer
W in determining the annual value of tenanted property; have

9 . 2')" C1' 23 been added. Existmg scc. Irrecoverable rent has been made an admissible due-
9 tion for computing income chargeable under the hea "In-
griiilft CL 24 come from. property"; (At present the deduction is- ) sible by virtue of a notiﬁcation only). Existing sec. The provision relating to development rebate has been
3>m(f';') éinbga changed as regards the year in respect of which the bate
 i::°i1:'§:°::e:i aissiziaztanﬁsisgsiiziizié ELi%:$'°?' 21:1': ° ability of the debt. .(As to the converse case, see elow
under existing section 35 .) . Exﬁ ' . v u - - z:c:(;1;i); Sscnd beenTl.El1(:Z'nif:;I1':glS10nS for deposit of proﬁts by companies have
(omitted in 61 A new provision has been added _.-whereunder in com- Existing Sec-
puting income from business, profession or vocation, bonus ]')"r§t)Cl 36
paid in pursuance of the award of an industrial Tribunal (2) W.'
will be allowed as a deduction, even if the amount of the a
bonus is not reasonable. '

A new provision has been added whereunder contribu- Ex' tins Sec.
tions made by an employer to funds estab..ished for the bene-- 8;' {£21 6
ﬁt of his employees have been listed as -aclmissible deductions (4)V(b)_ ' 3
for computing income from business etc., even if the fund
is not a recognised provident .fund or an approved super-
annuation fund, under certain conditions. A new provision has been added to the eﬁect that Existing Sec- buildings constructed by an employer for the residences of gift CL 43. his employees should be treated as buildings used for the
purpose of the employer's business, if the occupation by
the employees of the buildings is subservient to and neces-
sary for the purpose of the employees' duties. A new provision has been added laying down rules for EXWDS 56°-
estimating the value of the consideration received in a 3", C1 3
transaction of exchange. (This is with reference to charg- . '5 '
ing of tax under 'Capital gains'.)

The scope of the existing; provision, relating to power Ex ting Sec.
of the Income--tax Officer to treat thelfair market value of '2. ,(2)» M
a capital asset as the value of the consideration for which ,'gIfff;"a1
the sale etc. of the asset is made (where the sale is effected v '54'
with the object of avoidance etc. of" the liability of the 3
assessee to tax under capital gains), has been narrowed down i
by conﬁning the power to a case where the actual considera- 
tion is not correctly recited in_ the deed 'of sale etc. On the '
other hand, the scope has been widened by deleting the re-
quirement that the transaction must have been entered into
with a person directly or indirectly connected with the
assessee. '

It has been made clear that where the accounts of the Extsting sec.
assessee are not correct and eomplet ' the assessment will :3;
be a best judgment under section (4). The power to ' .c1_e5o
compute the income "upon such basis' and in such manner (1
as the Income-tax Officer may determine" (existing section .
13, Proviso) will be conﬁned to a case where the accounts '
are correct and complete. K

A new provision has been added ' , rein interest paid tingscc.
by an assessee on money borrowed f investing his capital '5 (I) 8;)
in a ﬁrm has been listed as an admissible. deduction in(D -69
congauting his income comprising his share in the ﬁrm's 3.'
pro ts. ' ~

It has been made clear that section 16(1)(c) , 3rd Pro- Existing Sec.
viso, which removes from the scope or the section income :62 (I) (0)
arising by virtue of a settlement etc. which is not revokable Diiaft C1. 64.
for a period of more than six years etc, does not apply in
a case where the assets re ' the' perty of the settler §
etc. In other words, where' ere. is 'transfer of the »col'- 3
pus, the proviso will have n appli j , . - _

 
 
 

\ 62 Existing Sec- The existing provision, whereunder income arising from
;)'5ra(,.3t)((:1,') 67 assets transferred to any person etc. for the beneﬁt of_ a (v)_ ' minor child of the assessee is regarded as the assessee's in- come in certain cases, has been modiﬁed so as to exclude

cases where the minor child is a married daughter. Existing 366- It has been made clear that the rate applicable for de- l')8m(f.'*tA()3l(3:3gI duction of super-tax is one in force for a company which
(1,) and .204 has not made the arrangements for deduction of super-tax (x) (b). referred to in section 18(3D) .
Exisling See» A new provision has been made imposing a ﬁrst charge
B"m(fZ)Cl upon the assets of a person who, after deducting tax under

2°9' the Act, fails tolpay it into the Qovernment Treasury.
Existing Sec. A general provision has been made to the effect that

' '3 (7) and 7 where tax is deductible at source, the assessee shall not be

$,'i;'o'''"d 1"" called upon to pay the tax himself unless he has received
D;-a_f[C|_ 2,3. the income without such deduction. (The existing provision
is conﬁned to salary.) '

Existing see. A provision has been added to the effect that advance
18A (1) payment of tax will not apply in respect of income-tax on

ggaft Cl. 215 

Existing Sm The rate of interest to be paid by an assessee who
18A (4) pro- does not pay advance tax on commission receipt within
viso ﬁfteen days of the date on which the income is received,
D''''" C!' 2*" has been reduced from 6 per' cent. to 4 per cent. Existing Sec- Interest payable by an assessee in a case where the

33r":ft(5():l 22 tax estimated by him falls short of 80 per cent. of the tax

(,)_ ' 3 regularly assessed, is made to run not from the 1st day of
January of the year of payment but from the 1st day of
April of the next ﬁnancial year. Existing Sec. The rate of interest payable by an assessee in cases of
18A (7) under-estimate of advance tax has been reduced from 6 per
Dmf' C1324' cent. to 4 per cent. ' ' . Existing Sec_ Instead of the general notice requiring all persons to

22(1) submit a return of income, a provision has been made for

DIM'-)0" '43 the compulsory submission of the return by every person

( Ha ' ~ who is assessable in respect of his income or in respect of
any other person's income. The return will have to be
submitted by the 30th June, each year. Existing Sec. A provision has been added to the eﬁect where a return
22 (I) of income is sent to an Income»-tax Ofﬁcer who has no juris-
g§3(f,'))C1' '43 diction over the assessee, he shall forward it to the Income- ' tax Officer having such jurisdiction. » '

Existing Sec» A new provision has been added clarifying the power
gmﬁ C, X46 of the Income-tax Oﬂicer to make such inquiries as he may
(2)_ ' think necessary for the purpose of assessment. Existing 560- A new. provision has been added requiring the Income- gaft C, [46 tax Oﬁicer to give the assessee an opportunity of rebutting
(3). ' any material which isvproposed to be used for the purpose -of assessment. (An exception has however been made for

, "best judgment"_asses¢ment.) ;; » produced in the case) for the purposes of assessment, has (8) 63 The power of the Income-tax Officer to take into ac- Existinx 59¢-
count material gathered by him (in addition to the evidence ffmﬂ CL "'7 1 een clariﬁed. It has been made clear that a "best judgment" assess- Existing 560
ment is to be made after consideration of the material f)i';a§.§)C] I 3
which the Income-tax Ofﬁcer has gathered. ' 4

An indication of the material which the Income-tax Existing Sec.
Ofﬁcer may use in an assessment under section 23(3) or 23-
23(4), has been given. - DmﬁCl"49'

A speciﬁc provision has been added laying down the Existing see.
right of set oif of loss from one business against proﬁts in 24(1)
any other business. ' D"'ﬂ CL72'

The provision relating to set OE of losses has been Existing Scc.
modiﬁed in respect of set off against capital gains. A loss 24 (1)
sustained under any head other than capital gains cannot
be set olf against capital gains, under 'the provision as
proposed. In respect of the assessment of a person about to leave Existing Sec.
India, it has been-provided that the period of notice to be 24A
given by the Income-tax Oiﬁcer may be shortened even in %'"f' C" '34
respect of the assessments for earlier previous years. )' - 7
(I) and 75-

Fpr the assessment of a person about' to leave India, a Existing 56¢-
time- imit of three months has been provided for complet- gmf Cl 18
mg the assessment, where the assessment is made under the m_ t ' '

special procedure given in existing section" 24A. The section relating to partition of a Hindu undivided Existing Sec.
family has been made applicable in respect of partial parti- 2 ,
tion also. 134335' CL '3'

A new rovision has been added laying down which 'sting Sec.
Income-tax fﬁcer is entitled to assess a Hindu family after 2 A 5 its partition. . C' '8'

The provision relating to assessment after partition has Existing 560-
been extended to penalties and other sums._ Dar' 1. 181 (8). A deﬁnition of partition has been added. Existing Sec.'

gift Cl. 181
' Expln. it has been made clear that an application for the regis- Existing Sec.
tration of a firm may be made even after the dissolution of GA Draft

the ﬁrm. - '9' <2)'

The provision (at present contained in the rules) re1at- Existing sec.
ing to the time Within which -a ﬁrm should be registered ESA
has been modiﬁed. It has been provided that the applica-'D'3f' 0* '9'
tion should ordinarily be made before the expiry of the 4}'
prevliloﬁus year in respect of which registration is being
soug . The provision requiring that the individual shares of Existing Sec-
the partners should be "s ciﬁed in the partnership deed" W" 25A

has been altered, so as to ow regi nation where the shares; 1,)9'fff,)fla"'°

Existing
Sec. 26A. Draft Cl. :91 (7). Existing
Sec. 26A
Draft

Cl. :92 (2). Existing
Sec. 26A
Draft

Cl. 192 (4.). Existing
Sec. 26A
Draft

Cl. 193 (1). Existing
Sec. 26A
Draft

C1- 193(5)- Existing Sec. 30 (1) Draft

Cl. 254.. Existing
Sec. 31
Draft Cl. 259, Expl. though not speciﬁed in the instrument, can be ascertained

from that instrument dr from the partnership deeds of any A

connected ﬁrms. The provision (at present contained in the rules) re-
lating to renewal every year of the registration of a ﬁrm
has been modiﬁed. So long as there is no change in the
constitution of the ﬁrm or the shares of the partners, a

formal application for renewal will not be necessary and

it would suffice if the ﬁrm ﬁles a declaration, with' the
return of the income. to the effect that there has been no
change as aforesaid. A provision prohibiting the Income-tax Oﬁicer from
rejecting an application for registration of a ﬁrm on tech-
nical grounds has been added. A time-limit has been provided within which an appli-
cation for registration of a ﬁrm must be disposed of by' the
Income-tax Ofﬁcer. It has been made clear that the only ground on which

the registration of a ﬁrm can becancelled is misrepresenta- e

tion. It has also been provided that the ﬁrm must have an
opportunity of being heard before cancellation, andsthat
cancellation can be ordered only with the previous appro-
val of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner. . A time limit has been laid down within which regis-
tration of a ﬁrm can be cancelled. . It has been made clear that an objection as the
status under which the assessee is assessed can be raised
by way of appeal. 9

A new provision authorising appeals in resp ; t of
orders passed under existing ' section 35 (rectiﬁcati of
mistakes etc.) has been added. f

Various orders relating to - interest passed undei sec- tion 18A (advance payment of tax) have been mad ap-
pealable in appropriate cases. The following orders have been made iappealable :- fault in view of an appeal. It has been made clear that an Appellate Ass stant
Commissioner, in disposing of an appeal is not con d to
the grounds raised by the appellant in the appeal an may
redvetermine any matter which fell to be decided b the
Income-tax Officer inithe coufﬁ of the proceedings hich
led to the order in appeal. r '

i 1 3 65'

Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal -is replaced by _a -1s?J_<I=ting
peal to the High Court, and the Tribunal is to be abolis - "°' 33'

~D af
ed» 2t6o (1). It has been made clear that an order passed by the gifting
Appellate Assistant Commissioner rejecting or refusing an D5333'
appeal without a decision on merits is appealable. c1_g;.,(,)_

The power to reopen an assessment any time, where the Existing
income that has escaped assessment in the. past amounts Sec-P34 (I)-
to one lakh of rupees or more, has been modiﬁed. 3" '9."f'°'

Only the incomes for the sixteen assessment years ( ('
prior to the year in which a notice under section 34 is '55 ') 3)
issued will, it is proposed, be taken into account in arriv- ing at the ﬁgure of one lakh of rupees or more. It has,
however, been added that where the income which escap- ed assessment in a single assessment ear is at least ﬁfty
thousand rupees, the assessment for at year can be re- opened at any time. A new provision has been added prescribing a time; liaxiptins sec-
limit of four years for the completion of an assessment in 'l')°'!f341(3)
the case of a notice under section 28(3) read with 28(1) ,6', E3 (c) (penalty for concealment of income etc.). It is proposed to allow the Department a period of at Eximnﬁ 5"'
least one year for the completion' of an assessment in atf)'::f§t1§?gc
case where an assessee ﬁles a return or revised return 155(1) re),
under section 22(3) . '

A new provision has been added 'prescribing a time- Exﬁsying
limit of four years for the completion of an assessment D ;{'"34(3)
under section 34(1) (a) (i.e., assessment for income whichc use ",0
escaped assessment by reason of the assessee's omis- (2. sion or failure to disclose the material facts). The tiIne- s

limit will be counted from the end,'of the ﬁnancial year

in which the notice was iss ed. A provision has been added to the effect that while Fgxistins 5°C-
computing the period of limitation laid down by the Act "°"f§41(3) C
for the completion of assessments, any period during , 0 ,
which assessment proceedin§ were stayed by an order of '

a court will be excluded. A new provision has been added empowering the re- 'ﬁng sec.
vision of the assessment of a member of an association in: 35
a case where the assessment of the association itself is re- "R °"*"" apply, two Explanations have been added explaining the and 3.
scope of the provision. A '

With reference to the provision that if a company does E''i''i"3 5"' I

not pay the tax on its pro ts with g ree years after de- (9) _ 6 claring the dividend the will?" irecovered from the a (4). Existing Sec- tion 35
Draft Clause
:62 (6). Existing Section 37 Draft

Cl. 136 (2). Existing Section 37 . Draft

Cl. x 36 (4). Existing Sec. 40 , 41 and 42 . Draft Cl. 169, etc.

Existing
Sec. 40,41
and 42
Draft Cl. 'I70 (2). Existing

Sec. 4o,4i, 42 . Draft

Cl. 170 (3). Existing
Sccs.4o,4i,42
Draf -Cl. 17: (1). Existing
Secs.4o,4r,-4*: share-holders, it has been
of the company itsel
year should have ela
th

provided that if the assessment
f is delayed, a period of at least one
psed after the end of the year in which
e company is assessed. A new provision has been added ex
come-tax Ofﬁcer to reopen an assessme
of allowing bad debts, where the assess
for a particular previous year but the Income-tax Officer is
of opinion that the deduction should have been claimed for
an earlier previous year. (As to the converse case, see under
'existing section 8 ). npowering the In- nt, for the purpose
ee claims deduction

It has been made clear that while ex
of the court with reference to the d
and examination of witnesses,
should follow the same procedu

ercising the power
iscovery of documents
the Income-tax authority
re as a civil court. A new provision for return of documents produced by
any person before an Income-tax authority has been added. \The provisions relating to assessment of guardians,
trustees, managers, Court of wards, Administrator-general,
agent of a non-resident etc. have been combined under one
topic, under the group of sections relating to "Representa-
tive assessees". -- A new provision has been adde
of all "representative assessees" (12.
agents of non-residents etc.) to the
their possession. (S
tain representative

(1 limiting the liability
e.. guardians, trustees. extent of the assets in
pecial remedies available against cer-
assessees have, of course, been saved). en added to the effect that a
d as a representative as ssee
(i.e., trustees, guardians, agents of non-residents etc.) ould
not be assessed under the .general charging section (section 3) in respect of the income concerned. A new provision has be
sentative assessee to recove
son represented by him. A new provision has be
person liable to be assesse

en adde_d empowering a repre- r tax paid by him from theg per- I

een made to the effect
sentative assessee who parts with the assets
ment of tax, is liable personally. The provision for mode of computing tax for income
received by a Court of wards, trustee appointed under a
a deed in writing, Administrator-general etc., in cases
where the income is not speciﬁcally receivable on behalf
of any one person or by where the individual shares are
not known has been altered in two respects :-- should be charge
of persons, or, if
ﬁciary, then at
ﬁciary if the In

I

i
E

that .a repre- (2) as regards super-tax, it has been provided that it
should be charged in all cases as if the income
were the income of an association of persons. A new provision has been added allowing the Income-- Existing
tax Oiﬁcer to continue assessment proceedings, started be- gift -I
fore the dissolution etc. of a ﬁrm or association or the dis- 185(2) 2nd
continuance of its business; against the persons who were 196 (2). partners or members. With reference to the provisions for charging tax in Existing

the case of shipping business, it has been made clear that Sec} 3 (3)-
. the rate applicable is one in force for a company which has D" ' '

The provision regarding income arising to a non-resi- Existing

dent from a transfer etc. governed by section 44D has been 360- MD (I)- slightly widened. Under the present provision, only in- D"'f'C'-
come arising from the transfer is taxable under this section. 96 M W'
Under the provision as proposed, any income of a non-resi- 'dent which the transferor has power to enjoy will be co- vered by this section, (if the power to enjoy itself arises

from the transfer). The existing provision, whereunder a sale of securities Eximng

is disregarded where there is agreement to buy back such sec.44E (1). securities by the owner of the securities, has been widened gfm

by removing the requirement of an agreement to buy those '. 97 (')'
securities. The provision as propose will be applicable to

all cases where the transaction of sale and repurchase of
"securities results in advoidance of tax. '(The provision will

not. of course, aply if there was no avoidance or if the

avoidance was not systematic). Under the existing provision, where a person transfers Existing '

securities before the declaration of the dividend, the in- Scc-,44F-
come attributable to the period upto the transfer is deem- mar'

ed to be the transferor's income. Under the provision as Cl' 97 (3)'
proposed, however, the income for the whole year will be
deemed to be the transferor's income if there is avoid- ance of tax. It has also been provided that the avoidance

need not be of more than ten per cent. of« the amount of the
income-tax. '

A new provision authorising the Income-tax Ofﬁcer EXMHB
to extend the time for payment of tax or to allow payment 322431
by instalments has been added. Consequential provision 229(2) gm,
for failure to pay instalments etc. has also been added. 14). The present provision regarding the imposition of a Existing
penalty on an asseessee in default has been modiﬁed. S°°' 46(')'

Penalty has been replaced by penal interest at the rate of ;',';'§ff'A'

tax Officer will be 'necessary. In consequence existing sub-
section (A) has been omitted. ' ' . Existingaz Sec. 4 .6 ). Draft Cl. 231 read
with the sc- cond Sche- dule. Existing Sec. 46 (2) . Draft

Cl. 232. Existing Sec. 46 (2) . Draft

Cl. 233. Existing Sec. 46 (3) . Draft

CL 235 (5)- Existing Sec. 46 (5) . Draft Cl. 235 (2) se- cond para- graph. Existing Sec. 46 . Draft Cl. 235 (4)- Existing Sec. 46A . Draft

Cl. 241 (4)
and (5)- Existing Sec. 48 . Draft

Cl. 249 (1). Existing Sec. 48 . Draft

Existing Sec. 52 . Draft

Cl. 286. Existing Sec. 54 . (2). Draft Cl. I41 (3) (C). The various modes of recovery which a Collector cam
adopt when the Income-tax Oﬁicer sends a certificate to
him have been listed in the draft clause, and detailed pro-
cedure to be followed by the Collector is sought to be em-4
bodied in the Schedule which will be a self-contained
Code. A uniform system will thus be substituted in place-
of the existing procedure which applies the Revenue laws
of each State. It has been made clear that the Income-tax Oﬁicer can
send a recovery certiﬁcate to the Collector within whose
jurisdiction the assessee resides or carries on business
etc. or has property. Further, it has been made clear that.
the certiﬁcate can be sent to the Collector of any district.
in any part of India. A provision debarring an assessee from challenging
before the Collector the assessment which led to the issue
of the recovery certiﬁcate has been added. Proced re for
withdrawal or correction of the certiﬁcate by the I come-
tax Officer has been laid down. The provision authorising the Income-tax Ofﬁcer. to re- cover tax by any process contained in any municipal law . has been narrowed down, by limiting it to only one mode,
namely, distraint and sale of movable property. The power of an Income-tax Officer to attach kala
is sought to be limited to that portion.of the salary lwhic _
can be attached by a civil court. A _'

A new provision has been added empowering t e In-
come-tax Officer to apply to any court-in which any oney
of the assessee is lying, for payment of the money ,0 dis-
charge tax due from the assessee. \ '

A new provision has been added requiring the bwner
of ships or aircraft carrying' gassengers for desti tions
beyond India to submit perio ically "lists of such sseri-
gers. A new provision has been added to the eﬁect t at a
claim for refund should be made in the prescribed for and
l

veriﬁed in the prescribed manner. p

A new provision has been added to the effect at if
the Income-tax Oﬂicer does not dispose of a refund a plica-
tion within three months, the Government shall p y in-.
terest at the rate of 2 per cent. per annumon the a cunt
that is ultimately found to be refundable. The provision penalising a person who makes false
statement in a veriﬁcation is. sought. to be extendedgso as
X) be applicable to veriﬁcation under any provision of the

ct. . -A new provision has been added authorising t dis-
closure by the Income-tax Officer of the substance f the
material gathered by'§h'im for'; he purpose of' a "best judg-
ment" assessment. ' = 1 69 A new provision authorising the disclosure by an In.- Exiltins
come-tax Officer of accounts of assestees which are lying 36°' 33")'
with him and are required by a court, has been added. Sim1- ,4, (3) (g-)_7
larly, a provision allowing the disclosure of registered
documents of which copies can be obtained under the Re-
gistration Act, or of documents like balance sheet, audit
report etc. prepared under the Companies Act , has been
added. A new provision authorising the disclosure of informa- Existing'
tion required in connection with levy or realization of S°°'t54- W'
other Central taxes (for example Wealth Tax, Estate Duty ,4, (3) (,'l)__
Tax etc.) has been added. '

It has been made clear that the privilege conferred Existing -'
by existing section 54 can be waived by the assessee. %=r¢a~'ﬁ54-
. Cl. 142. With reference to the exemption in respect of super- Existin ;_
tax on dividends received from an Indian company en-- Sec. 5 A-
gaged in certain industries, the conditions to be satisﬁed D"'f1'08
by the Indian Company paying the dividend have been set ' : '
out in extenso, unlike the existing section which merely
makes a cryptic reference to section 15C. A new provision has been added authorising the Com- §3""'.l"é%
missioner to relax the conditions for the recognition of aDe°' _(')'
provident fund, in the case of >providei1t funds established (:1_ 39 m
under the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 and ex- Pro .(a).
empted from the operation of the scheme under section 17 of that Act. A new provision" allowing" the deduction of contribu- Exi-'*¢ingA
tions paid by an employer towards a recognised provident 53°13-" '°
\fund has been added. Drag? C1393

l

It has been made clear that an approved super--annua- Existing
tion fund should satisfy not only the conditions set out in 560- *53N *0
the Act, but also the conditions to be "imposed by rules 1531'"; C1 0
made by the Central Government. m_ 2 ' 3 7

A new provision has beeng added to the effect that E" 8
where there is a repugnancy between {the rules of an ap- sf' Dmﬁ
proved superannuation fund and any provision of the Act, 313- (5)_.
the latter shall prevail. ' A ,

»

It has been made clear that. the proyision for deduction Exist

of income-tax on contributions repaid to an employee from 5°°- (I)
an approved superannuation fund applies not only to the Cf um
employee's contributions but also to the employer's contri- ' 3 '
butions. It has also been made clear that payment of con-
tributions to an employee on death or termination of em-
ployment does not come within the scope of this section. A new provision has been added laying down elabo- F-xiltl
rately the power of the Centr Gover I nt to make rules Sgfv N '°
in relation to approved super uatioxifflﬁhds. aft GL3" Existing

Scc_,6o (1) Provisions relating to exemptions for tax etc. to be
and 60 (3) granted by notiﬁcation by the Central Government are pro-
(omitted in posed to be deleted as obsolete. the draft). _

Existing The power to grant relief in cases where salary is paid
566- 60 (2) in arrears or in advance etc., which is at present conﬁned
Dfaf' C1'V9°' to salary or proﬁt in' lieu of salary, has been extended to

perquisites also. 'Existing The right of any lawyer to appear before an Income-
S_§c- 6! (2) tax authority is sought to be conﬁned to legal practitioners
 D'°'(:f)' entitled to appear in a civil court. (Persons actually in
(iii:)?f4 practice at present will not be affected.)

~Is'3::"g;g(2) It is proposed to exclude persons who are not Char-
_(iii) (iv) Draft tered Accountants or authorised to audit the_ accounts of
Cl. 324 (2), companies under section 226(2) of the Companies Act, 1956,
E312?-<3?" from the category of "accountants" entitled to appear be- tice at present will not be aﬁected.)

The category "Income-tax practitioner" is to be abolish- ed for the future, except as. regards persons already in
practice. Existing Sec. The power to take disciplinary action against income-
6' (3)- D"'" tax practitioners other than lawyers and .accou}itants. C" 32* W' which is vested in the Commissioner at present, is proposed
to be transferred to an authority whose constitution would

_ be laid down in the rules. '
Exisﬁng (RC-' -Consequent on the proposed abolition of the Appellate

.£g'_""°° pgevﬁ; Tribunal, provisions relating to references to the High

'sions)omittcd Court have been omitted. injthc draft. V
Exisiting a With regard to the assessment of persons carrying on
Schedule, general insurance business, it has been made clear. that
"116 5- Draft deductions for depreciation must be allowed as entered in

S!_:l};°dEg§' the accounts prepared under the Insurance Act , and can-
5 ' not be questioned by the Income-tax Officer.
(NCW) Draft Unexplained cash credits, appearing in the books of
C1' 7°' accounts of the assessee, have been made assessable as
his income. Draft Investments-not appearin in the books ')1'? the assessee

and not explained s tisfactori y have been made assessable
for the ﬁnancial ye in which the investments were made. i

fore an Income-tax authority. (Persons actually in prac- . .71

A new provision has been' added laying down the (New) Draft-._
position regarding liability of an executor to pay tax in res- CL '73-
pect of the income accruing after the death of the person
whose estate is being administered. It has been made clear that in cases where tax is de- (New) Draft.
ductible at source or payable in advance, some kind of 01-199- Existing Sec- tions s. 4 . (1). 2nd Prov. 4B, s. 4.2 (2)

. andds. 4.4 D.

Existing Sec- tion 4. (1),
Exp]. 4.. Existing Sec- tion 4 (3)(i)- Existing Sec- tion 5 (8). Existing Sec- tion 7(1), tst
Prov. LIST II

Changes recommended in the Income-tax Act but not
embodied in Appendix 1. Besides the changes already embodied in the draft
proposals in Appendix I, the following changes are recom- mended in the Act, (These have not been embodied in
the draft proposals in Appendix I). -
The reasons in support of these changes have been

stated below, or, in the body of the report or the notes
to the relevant draft clauses :-- If the provisions relating to persons not ordinarily re- . sident are retained, some clariﬁcation of the existing deﬁ-
nition is necessary, so as to settle the conﬂict of decisions
mentioned in the body of the report'. (3) The provision relating to income which accrued
in a Part B State or a merged territory before the exten-
sion of the Income-tax Act thereto and which is brought
into any other part of India thereafter, should be omitted,
as obsolute'. ~

(4) The existing words "subject to the provisions of
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 16 ", conta' ed in
existing section 4(3) (i) , opening line, should be de; ted'. (5) Whether the provision authorising the Director of
Inspection, the Commissioner etc. to issue instructidns to
subordinate officers should be retained, may be consider-
ed'. - (6) The limit of one-ﬁfth of the salary laid down at
present in respect of rebate for sums deducted from "salary
for deferred amunities etc.. should be raised to one- ourth.
on the lines of section 15(3) as amended by the anoe
(No. 2) Act, 1957'. '

1 Vida para. 22 of the body of this Report; this relates to draft clatlsc 4, (I). (d)- ' Vida para. 22 of the body of this Report, and para. (1) of notes to draft
clause 6 and also para. (3) of notes to draft clause 4,. * See para. 22 of the body of this Report. ' Vida para. 22 of the body of this Report and notes to draft clause 4., para.
(1 I ). second sub-paragraph. '

5 Vida notes to draft clause 12, p . ,9 (b). ' Vida the second para. of notes to t clause :30. '
" Vida the second parnggaph of the notes to draft clause 88 (I) (c); (7) In existing section 7(2) (iii) , the words "wholly, 1?-xistins 
necessarily and exclusively in the perfnrmance of his du-"°" 7(9) 0")
ties" may be replaced by suitable words connoting expen-
ses reasonably incurred in the performance of duties'. (8) The deduction of one-half of the taxes levied by a Fgdating See-
local authority is at present allowed only in respect of pro- "On 1;!) (2)-
perty occupied by a tenant. No such deduction is allowed 3' °"'
where the property is occupied by the owner himself. There
is, however, no reason why this deduction should not be
available in the case of property occupied by the owner. There is no apparent justification for making a distinction
between the two classes of properties'. (9) Certain special statutes lay down the rates of de-Existing sec- preciation for undertakings governed by those statutes. It tiqn 10 (2)
has been suggested that the rates of depreciation allowed (")-
.by such statutes for the purposes of those statutes should
be made applicable for purposes of income-tax also, in re-
lation to those undertakings. If the same rates are adopt-
ed, the assessees owning such undertakings would be saved
,a lot of trouble and duplication of labour. This question requires consideration by the Govem-
ment'. '

(10) Where machinery, plant or furniture is let on hire Existing Sec-
and the income from hire is assessed under head "Income tion; I2 (3)
from other sources". the Act allows the assessee certain ""d--""' (4)-
deductions on the lines of. income from business. The .
list of deductions so allowed, as given in existing sections
12 (3) and 12(4) , does not mention the deductions referred
to in existing sections 10(2) (via) and 10(2) (vib) i.e., the
additional depreciation egllowed for new building, machi-
nery etc. and the development rebate allowed for new ma-
chinery etc. These should be:added '11 sections 12(3) and 12(4) as they stand on the same footing as normal deprecia-
tion'. - (11) The question of making a provision for the spread- Iaf-xiytins Sec-
over of income in the case of patents on the lines of exist- "°" *2 AA-
ing section 12AA should be considered'. a q,

(12) The method of calculating the cost of acquisition ting Sec-
of an asset in the case of capital gains. may be simpliﬁed ti "1 3'(=)
.by substituting the fair mar et value or the actual cost,."' " B (3)'
in place of the present comp cated provisions'. i

(13) The Income-tax Oﬂiqer (or, ' teferably, the Ins- do "~8B5°=~
pecting Assistant Commissioner shogsf : '5 '

41 issue a certiﬁcate ' K
to an institution qualifying under e ting section 15B, so

1 Vida notes to draft clause 16 (iv), in paragraph 6 of the notes to draft
clauses : 5 to :7. ' This relates to draft clause 24 (1) (i). 3 This relates to draft clause 32 (1) (i) and (ii),
' This relates to draft clause 60 (ii). ' Vida note: to draft clause :87, lastipara. ' Via': notes to_draft clause 51. '

I

(
I . s: 9 5 1 i 74 that assessees making donations to such institution need
not prove, in each individual case, that the institution falls
within the section'. Existing Sc(;- (14) The provision for grossing up of 'dividends should
tion 16 (2). be simpliﬁed'. '

The question of requiring companies to deduct tax.
from dividends may be considered'. Existing Sec- (15) Regarding grossing up of dividends, it is further

tion I6 (2)- recommended that where a dividend is declared out of pro-
ﬁts taxed in earlier years, and there are no taxable proﬁts
of the company in the year of declaration of the dividend,
the grossing up should be allowed at the rate which would
have been applicable to the company in the year of decla-
ration if the company had got any taxable income. This
would clarify the position'. Existing SW (16) Under existing section 16(3) , the income arising

mm ,5 (3)_ to a wife from her membership of a ﬁrm in which her hus-
band is a partner, is included in the total income of the hus-
band. In modern times, however, a large number of'
partnerships have come into existence, in which the wife
contributes substantial capital, or renders active assistance
by virtue of her professional qualiﬁcations. It is recom-
mended that the provision in question should notapply
to professional partnerships in such cases. (The case of a
wife working in partnership with her husband as a doctor
or lawyer may be cited as a typical example.)

It may be noted that the provision in question was
enacted at a time when women had no resources of their
own and had not joined the learned professions. With the
changes in economic and social conditions that have taken
place in modern times, the provision must be modiﬁed.
This will also be in accordance with the s irit of article 15 of the Constitution, since it will place hus ands and wives
on an equal footing'. - Existing Sw (17) Capital gains should be completely excluded from
tions 17 (6) the total income of the assessee for the purposes of: super-
and :7 (7)- tax'. ,2 . Exming sec- (18) The correct construction of existing section 18A
tion l8A (5), (5) and its second PI'0V1S0 should be examined, with refer- gnd its 2nd ence to the alternative draft given in the notes'. '
l'0VlS0. 1 Vide the last paragraph of notes to draft clause 89. .
I Vida para. 4,0 of the body of this Report and also notes to draft clause 59(2).
' Vida notes to draft clause 59 (2). ' This relates to draft clause 59 (2). - 5 This relates to draft clause 67 (i).
' Vida notes to dratt clause 125, last para.
7 Vida notes to draft clause 222 (1). (19) A separate form of return should be prescribed Ijlxitting Sec-
for losses incurred by an assessee, which the assessee "°" 92 (M)-
wishes to carry forward'. (15

(20) The existing provision regarding assessment of F_.xisting Sec-
registered ﬁrms, resulting in double taxation of' the same "PH 23 (5) 3
income to some extent, should be deleted'. 0)'

The provisions for registration of ﬁrms should not be
administered in a hyper technical manner'. '

(21) The present anomalous position regarding assess- Exming sec-
ment- of companies in respect of distributed and undistri- tion 23 A.
buted proﬁts should be removed. The anomaly arises from
the fact that existing section 23A of the Income-tax Act
encourages the maximum distribution of proﬁts, while the
provision in the Finance Act aims at the minimum distri-
bution of proﬁts'. (22) It is further recommended that a provision should Existing 566-
be added to the effect that in passing an order under exist- "°' 23A- (1)
ing Section 23A(1), the Income-tax Oﬂicers should also
take into account the current business requirements of
the company. He should not pass an order under the
section if he is satisﬁed that having regard to current busi-
ness requirements, the declaration of a larger dividend
would have been unreasonable'. '

I

(23) An assessee should, along with his return of Eyﬁsting sec-
income, pay tax on the basis of his return. An order of tion 233(1).
provisional assessment by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer should '
not be necessary. Such a system of voluntary payment of
tax by the assessee will save considerable time of the
Department'. ,

(24) It should be considered whether it is necessary to Eldsting Sec-
retain the concessions allowed by existing sections 25(3) 'W3 95 (3)
and 25(4), relating to discontinuance of or succession to a '"9 25 W'
business assessed under the 1918 Act. The lapse of time 2
since the 1918 Act would seem to render this provision un- i

necessary'. 5

1 This relates to draft clause 14.3 (3). 3

( ) ' Vida para 65 of the body of this Report and notes to draft clause 189
3 . 3 Vida para 65 of the body of this "Report. This relates mainly to draft
clauses 189 and 190. ,
' Vida the last three paragraphs of the notes to draft clause 1 13. _
(' )Vida para. .54 of the body of this Report. This relates to draft clause
1 13 2 . ' This relates to draft clause 14.5.
' Vida the last paragraph of notes clause 91; --
1--1 Law Com.I58. § =- Existing Sec- (25) Appeals against assessments of income-tax in ex

tion 31. cess of rupees one lakh should be heard by the Commis-
sioner and not by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
as at present'. Other appeals should be heard by senior
oﬂicers whose scale of pay is attractive'. Exiting Sec- _ (26) It is recommended that a notice under section 34 $3" '~';*m£i'S)(; should not be issued in any case after the expiry of six- (;;)_ teen years from the end of the assessment year in which
the income was ﬁrst assessable'. Existing Sec- tion 400) (27) Existing section 40(1) should not make a men- tion of trustees. It should be conﬁned to guardians of

minors and committees and managers of lunatics and
idiots. M. C. SETALVAD,
(Chairman)

'M. C. CH,AGLA,

K. N. WANCHOO, - P. SATYANARAYANA RAO,

N. C. SEN GUPTA," Sec. 4(2) 'P.°°'.'.°'"."'§"?'

I0. Remittance by a non-resident husband

C H A P T E R III
INCOMES WHICH DO NOT FORM PART OF THE TOTAL INCOME 11. Agricultural income, Income received as members of Sec. , Hindu Undivided family, Casual receipts, etc.

4(1), 2nd to 5th '
provisos. Sec. 4(3) (ii) to (xxii) Sec. 7(1) , proviso Sec. 7(1) , Explanation 2,

prov. V Sec. 14(1) and New. 12. Income from property held for religious or charitable Sec. 4 ( ) (i), (ii) and

purposes, and income of religious or charitable institu- conclu mg part.
tions. 13. Business assessed under the Income-tax Act, 19185 See. 2 5(3),(4) part. ~

C H A P T E R IV
COMPUTATION or TOTAL INCOME

Head: qf incornc 14. Heads of income . . . . . Sec. 6 A. Salaries 15. Salaries . . . Sec. 7 ( 1) part 16. Deductions . . . . . . Sec. 7 (2) '

:7. Interpretation . . '. . . Sec. 7 ( 1) part - d

Expls. 1 81,2. ,v m

Clause 18. 19.
2o. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32.

33-
34-- 35- 36.

37- 38.

39- 40.

4.1. 42.

4-3-

\
.78

Subject matter Existing section
B. Interest on Securities
Interest on Securities . . . . . Sec. 8 (1) main part and
New. Deductions . . . . . Sec. 8 , 1st proviso part.
Banking Company Sec. 8 , Exp1_

Amounts not deductible Sec, 3, [st provigo Pam

C. Inoomefram house property

See. 9(1) Sec. 9(2) , part & New. 9(2) part & Sec. 9(1) part Sec. 9(1) , (iv), proviso

Income from house property
Annual value

Deductions . . . Amounts not deductible . Property owned by co-owners Sec. 9(3) Interpretation . . . Sec. 9(4) , Sec. 9(1) , (vii)
Expl. &. New. D. Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or voration Sec. 10(1) , and Sec. 10 (54%) part. Sec. 1o(6),New. an Sec. 24(1) £xpl. Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or vocation

New. See. 1o(2)(i) and (ii) ('v) (v) & (ix) parts. ' 1
Repairs and' Insurance of machinery, plant and furniture Sec.' 10(2) (iv) and (v)

parts. Sec. 10(2) , (vi) (via) & (vii)
parts. . Sec. 10(2) (vib) part. Provisions applicable . . . . . Rent, repairs and insurance for buildings

Depreciation

Development rebate

Conditions for depreciation allowance and developinent Sec. 1o(2)(vi), (via) and

rebate. (vib) parts, sec. 10 (
and New. 43)

Expenditure on Scientiﬁc research. Sec. )1o(2) (xii),; (xiii) and
XIV . Other deductions. . . . Sec. 10 (2) (ii , (iv), part (viii), (x) and

General . . . . Sec. 10 (2) (xv) . Buildings etc. partly used for business etc. or not exclu- Secs. 10 (2) (i), prov, I0 (2)
sively so used (ii) rov. 10 (2), latter part
an 10(3). Sec. 12A . Secs. 10(2) (iii) part, to
(4.), 1o(4.A) and ' Sec. 8 Exp. part. Secs. 10(2) (vii) part, no

(2) (xiv) part to p

(2) (xi) 1>r°v- pm 10 (2A)- Secs. 10 (5), rp (2) (xiv)

Sec.12B (1) 2nd prov. part

Managing agency . Amounts not deductible . Proﬁts chargeable to tax. . . Interpretation . . . Residence of employees . '. _ ._ . . New. 1 i) & New." Sec.24 (1) Expl.§2 and New. a

.7! -12- Clause

45- 46.
47~ 48.
4-9- 50. 51. 52.
53-
54-

55-

57- 58.

59- 60.
61 . 62.

Subject matter

Insurance business. Capital gains . Previous year . . Insurance business

.79

E. Capital Gain: Sec. 12B (2) 4th prov. New. See. 12B (2) 1st prov. Sec. 12B (4,) (a)
See. 12B (4.) (b)

New and Sec. 12B (2) (ii)
pa t. See. 12 (r) (IA) and: New Sec. 16 (2) part ' Sec. 12 (2) part -- . Sec. 12 (2) prov. and 12
(5) part : '

Sec» :2 (5) part. I: (3)

and (4.) . INCOMES OF OTHER PERSONS INCLUDED IN ASSESSEE'S TOTAL INCOME 63. 64.. 65. 66. 67.

Transfer of incomes . Revocable Transfer of property- lrrevocable Transfers

Deﬁnition of revocable transfer- Husband, wife and minor children . CHAPTER VI Sec. 16 (1) (c) part 3 Sec. 16 (1) (c) part Sec. 16 (1) (c) part . Sec. 16 (1) (c) part Sec. 16 (3) AGGREGATION OF INCOME AND SET OFF OR CARRY FORWARD OF IDSSES 68. 69. 70.
7:. Total income . - - Method of computing a partner

of the ﬁrm. Cash credits

Un-explained investments. 's share in the income Sec. 16 (1) (a) part Sec. 16(1) (1) )

New. New. Clause 72.

73~

74-- 75- 76.
77- 78.
79- 81. 82. 83.
.84- 85. 86. 87. 88. 89.

go. 91. 92.
93-
94-

95- 96.

97- 80 Subject matter

Existing Section
Set off of loss from one business to loss from another

New. (1) Set off of losses from one head to another
(2) Carry forward & set off of business losses
Losses in speculative business. . See. 24 (1) part Sec. 24 (2) part

Secs. 24 (1) part, 24 (2)
part. Losses under the head 'capital gains'. Sec. 24 (2A) & (2B)
Losses of registered ﬁrms . . . . Sec. 24(1) part & (2)
Losses of unregistered ﬁrms assessed as registered ﬁrms Sec. 24(2) part
Losses sustained by partners of unregistered ﬁrms Secs. 24(1) part, 24(2) part
Set off of losses in case of change in constitution of ﬁrm See. 24 (2) part.
Submission of return of losses Sec. 22 (2A) part. part

C H A P T E R VII
INCOME ON WHICH NO INCOME-TAX IS PAYABLE

Earned income . . . . Sec. 15A. Co-operative Society . . . . Sec. 14(3) Dividends from Co-operative Society . . Sec. 14(4) \
Marketing Society . . . Sec. 14(5) Newly established industrial undertakings Sec. 15C part.
Dividend from new industrial undertaking See. 15C (4)

Other income Sec. 8 , 2nd and 3rd provisos

(S35 §£id(2 e(:)}4s '(t)(.2)

C H A. P T E R VIII
REBATES AND RELIEFS

Rebate on life insurance premia, annuities and
contribution to Provident Fund etc.

Donations for charitable purposes Sec. 15 Sec. 15B part. Relief} for Income-tax

Salary paid for more than one year
Business assessed under the Income-tax Act, 1918

See. 60 (2) part Sec. 25 (3) & (4) parts. C H A P T E R IX
DOUBLE TAXATION RELIEF

Agreement with countries . . Sec. 49A
Countries with which no agreement exists S60. 49D
Relief to company to be regarded as relief to share- holder . . . . . . . SCC. 49C

C H A P T E R X
PROVISIONS AGAINST AVOIDANCE OF TAX

Certain transactions with non-residents See. 42(2)
Avoidance of income--tax by transctions resulting in
transfer of income to non-residents . Sec. 44D . Avoidance of tax by certain transactions in securities Sees. 44B and 44F -. *7 81 Clause Subject matter Existing section
CHAPTERXI. '
° SUPER-TAX
Primipal Provisions 98. Charge of Super-tax . . - I. . Sec. 55 part 99. Total income from Super tax . . . . . Sec. 56 . 100. Business, Profession or vocation charged under
1918 Act . . . . . . . . Sec. 25(4) prov. 101. Deductions under interest on securities . . . New 102. Applicability of provisions to super-tax . . . Sec. 58 (1) 103. Avoidance of super-tax . . . . . New. '

Incomes which do not form part of Mal income for super-tax 104. Share in unregistered ﬁrm or association of persons l. Sec. 55 , 2nd prov. 105. Co-operative Society . . . . . . Sec. 14 . (3) part. 106. Dividends from co-operative Society . . . Sec. 14(4) part 107. Marketing Society . . . . . . Sec. 15 (5) part 108. Dividends from certain companies . . . . Sec. 56A.
Rebate of Super~'1'ax 109. Donations for charitable purposes . . . . Sec. 15B part. 110. Newly established industrial undertakings . . Sec. 15C part and

I See. 17(3) part. 111. Share from registered ﬁrm. . . . ' . . Sec. 14(2)(aa) , part
1 12. Relief for salary received in arrear etc. . . . Sec. 60(2) part

a
Additional Super-Tax on undislribuled Proﬁt: \ /
» _ CHAPTER XH
DETERMINATION OF TAX IN CERTAIN SPECIAL CASES 121. Determination of Income-tax . . . . . Sec. 17(2) part. 122. Tax on accumulated balance of Recognised Provident
Fund . ' . . . . , . . . . New. 123. Tax on compensation. . . . . . . Sec. 1o(5A) part and New. 124.. Tax in the case of non-residents . . . . Sec. 17(1) . 125. Tax on capital gains in cases of assessees other than .
companies . . . . . . A . . Sec: 17(6). 126. Tax on capital gains in case of companies . . Sec. 17(7) . Clause Subject matter Existing section

C H A P T E R XIII
INCOME-TAX AUTHORP1 IES. A ppoinlmcnt and Ctmtrol 127. Income-tax Authorities. . . . . . . Sec. 5(1) . 128. Appointment of Income-tax Authorities. . . . Sec. 5 part. 129. Control of Income-tax Authorities. . . . . Sec. 5 part. 130. Instructions to subordinate Authorities . . . Sec. 5 part. 131. Jurisidiction of Income-tax Authorities . . . Sec. 5 part. ' 132. Transfer of case from one Income-tax officer to another Sec. 5(7A) & New 133. Change of Incumbent of an oﬂice . . . . Sec. 5(7C) 134.. Authority competent to take or continue certain pro-
ceedings . . . . . . . . New 135. Incomeétax oﬂicer entitled to assess. . . . . Sec. 64 . Powers 136. Power regarding discovery, production of evidence etc. See. 37 part. 137. Power of search and seizure. . . . . . . Sec. 37 part. 138. Power to call for information. . . . . . Sec. 38 . 139. Power to inspect registers of companies . . . Sec. 39 .
:40. Powers of Directors of Inspection and Inspecting Assistant
Commissioners . . . . . . Sec. 5(7B) part. Disclosure qf Irgformalion 141. Disclosure of information prohibited . . . .. Sec. 54 .. 14.2. Savings regarding voluntary disclosure by person mak- ing the statement etc. New. C H A P T E R XIV
PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSMENT

:43. Return ofincome . . . . . . . Sec. 22(1) , (2), (2A) part,
(3) & (5)- 144. Return by whom to be signed . . . . . New. 145. Provisional assessment ' . . . . . . Sec. 23B part. 14.6. Enquiry before assessment . . . . . Sec 22(4) & New. ,
:47. Assessment . . . . . . » . . Sec. 23(1) , (2) and (3) ' 148. Best judgment assessment . . . . . . Sec. 23(4) part 149. Relevant material . . . . . . . _ New. 150. Method of accounting . . . . . . Sec. 13 . 151. Reopening of assessment at the instance of the assessee Sec. 27 . 152. Income escaping assessment. . . . . . Sec. 34(1) part. I 53. "Income which has escaped assessmcn " . . . Sec. 34 (1) part. 154.. Issue of notice where income has escaped assessment . Sec. 34 , (1) part. 155. Time limit for issue of notice . . . . . Sec. 34 . (1) part, (3) part. 155. Provision for cases where notice of assessment is issued Sec. 34 . (3) part. : I60. Time limit for completion of assessment and lc-assess-
ments. . .~ . . . . . . : . ' Sec. 34 . (3). *-\ 83 Clause Subject matter Existing section 161. Rectiﬁcation of mistake. 560- 35 (1) (2) (3) 8' (4-)- ' 162. Other amendments . Sec. 35 (5) , (8) & (9). 163. Notice of demand Sec. 29 . 164.. Intimation of loss . Sec. 24 (3) . 165. Intimation of assessment of ﬁrm Sec. 23 (6) . 166. Information and Return. . . . - . Segsf 20A, 21, 19A and Sec. 1 5 ~ 167. Certiﬁcate by company to share holders receiving
dividends. . . . . . . . ~. Sec. 20 . C H A P T E R XV
LIABILITY IN SPECIAL CASES
A. Legal Representatives 158. Legal representatives . . . . Sec. 24B.
B. Representative a::e.tsee.t--Geueral provisions
X69. Representative assessee . Sec. 4 .2 (1),'4.o (1), 41(1). 170. Liability of representative assessee Secs. 40 part 41 part and
'7X- Right of representative assessee to recover tax paid Nlgvcvwand Sec. 42(1) part. 172. When representative assessee personally liable. - . New. 0. Representative' assessees--:peeial cases 173. Who may be regarded as agent . . . Sec. 4 .3. 174- Charge of tax where shares of beneﬁciaries unknown Sec. 4 .1 (1), 1st prov. 175- Case Where part of trust income is" chargeable Sec. 41 (1) , 2nd prov. D. Rfpresentative assessee:----'General
I76. Remedies against Property in cases of representative as- New.
sessces. . . . . . , . . 1 77. Direct assessment not barred. Sec. 41 (2) and Sec. 42(1) ,
parts. E. Executor: I 79. Right of executor to recover tax paid. . . . . New.
F. Succession to business, profession or vacation. 180. Succession to business. . ., . . - . Sec. 26 (2) .
G. Partition 181. Assessment after partition of a Hindu undivided family. Sec. 25A and New. 5
H. Shipping business of non-residents ' 182. Shipping business of non-residents. . . Secs. 4.4.A, 44.13 andI'4.4C. 1. Recovery qftax in respect 151' non-residents l- 183. Recovery of tax in respect of non-resident from his assets Sec. 42 (1) , 1st Putt.
J. Person: leaving India V 184.. Assessment of person leaving India. Sec. 24A. 3
K. Discontinuance of business or dissolutipn V ' Z 185. Discontinued business. . ' . . . Sec. 25 (1) . 186. Dissolved association of persons. . . Sec. 44 . part.
L. Special provisions for certain kinds of income 187. Royalties or copyright fees for literary or artistic work
and fees for patents. . - . . . Sec. 12AA .
M. Liabilip of State Gowrnmmu
:88. Interest on income-tax free sccuriiics of a Stite Govern-
ment . . . ' . .é ' . ' . ' Sec. 8 , 3rd prov. '¢........-..;.. .., 
. ..._._ . .. ,

Clause 189. 190. 191. 192. 193. 194.
I95. 196. 198.

I 99. 200. 201. 202. 203. 204.. 205. 206. 207. 208.

v 209. 210. 211. 212. 213. 214.. ' 84 Subject matter
C H A P T E R XVI
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO FIRMS 

Asxessnzent

Existing section

Assessment of registered ﬁrms
Assessment of unregistered ﬁrms Sec. 23 (5) (a) . See. 23 (5) (b). Registration

Sec. 26A. part. Sec. 26A. (2) part Sec. 23 (4.) part,
and New. New and Sec. 23 (4) part. Application for registration
Procedure on receipt of application

Cancellation of registration

Changes in constitution, Succession and dissolution

Change in constitution of a ﬁrm. 560- 25 (1)-
Succession of one ﬁrm by another ﬁrm New.
Firm dissolved or business discontinued Sec. 44 . part-
Other provision: Certiﬁcate for deduction at lower rate

Tax deducted is income received Sec. 18(4) .
Credit for Tax deducted . .* . ' Sec. 18(5) part.
Duty of person deducting tax . . 360- 13(6)-
Consequences of failure to deduct or pay Sec. 18(7) .
Deduction only one mode of recovery Sec. 18(3) -
Certiﬁcate for tax deducted Sec. 18(9) . '
Persons responsible for paying . . Sec. 18 , Expl. Bar against direct demand on assessee Sec. 7(1) , 2nd prov. Savin regarding tax deemed to have been paid on

clivi ends . . . New . I 85 Clause Subject matter Existing section

C--Advanoe payment qf tax 215. Advance tax and income subject to advance tax . Sec. 18A (1) (a) part. I 216. Condition of liability to pay advance tax . . . Sec. 18A(1) (a) part. 217. Computation of advance tax . . . . . Sec. 18A (1) (a) part and
New. 218. Order by Income-tax Officer . . . _ . . Sec. r8A(1) (a) part 219. Instalments of advance tax . . . , . . Sec(. )1g:').(1) (a) part and
1 . - 220. Estimate by assessee . . . . . . Sec. r8A(2) &_ (3) 221. Commission receipts . . . . . . Section 18A(4) 222. Interest payable by Government 7 . . ' . . Sec. 18A (5) part 223. Interest payable by assessec . . . . . Sec. 18A (6) 224. Interest payable by assessee in cases of underestimate etc. Sec. 18A (7) 225. Interest where no estimate made . . . . Sec. 18A (8) , 226. When assessee deemed to be in default . . . Sec. 18A (10) 227. Credit for advance tax . 1 . . '. . . Sec. 18A (11) 228. Exclusion of capital gains . . . . . Sec. 18A (12). D--ColIection and Recovery 229. When tax payable and when assessee deemed in default Sec. 45 . 230. Interest payable when tax in default . . . Sec. 46(1) . 231. Certiﬁcate to Collector . . . . . . Sec. 46 (2) &. 46 (7) Expl-
_ part. 232. Collector to whom certiﬁcate is to be issued. . . New. 233. Validity of certificate and amendment thereof . . New. 234. Amendment, cancellation or withdrawal of certiﬁcate New. 235. Other modes of recovery . . . . . Sec. 46 (7) Expl. part Sec-
' 46 (5): (5A)! (3): (4) 236. Recovery through State Government . . . Sec. 46 (6) . 237. Recovery through Collector in Pakistan . . . Sec. 46 (8) 238. Recovery of Pakistan tax . . . . . Sec. 46 (9) 239. Condition for recovery of Indian tax in Pakistan or of

Pakistan tax' in India . . . . . Sec. 46 (10) 240. Recovery of Penalties . . . . . . Sec. 47 . 241. Tax Clearance Certiﬁcate . . . . . Sec. 46 242. Period for commencing recovery proceedings . . Sec. 46 (7) . 243. Recovery by suit or under other law 7 . . . Sec. 46 (7) Expl. part. E--Tax payable imder provisional assessment 244. 'Recovery of tax payable under provisional assessment Sec. 23 B (5). 245. Tax paid by deduction or advance payment 4 . . Sec. 23 B (6). C H A P T E R XIX
TAX DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN PAID ON DIVIDENDS 246. Tax deemed to have been paid on dividends . . 'Secs. 18 (5) part and 49 B
C H A P T E R XX '
REFUNDS 247. Refunds . . . Sec. 48 (1) 248. Person entitled to claim refund in certain special cases See. 49 F.

Clause 249. 250. 251. 252. 253. 254. 255. 256 Q57'. 258. 259. 260. 261. 262. 263. 264.. 265. 266. 267. 268. 269. 270. 271. 272. 274.. 86.

Subject matter
Form of claim for refund, and limitation.
Refund on appeal etc. ( . . Correctness of assessment not to be questioned
Interest

Set-off of refunds against tax remaining payable

CHAPTER xx: Sec. 31 (3) part & NCW. S -° ()part- 33 (2) part
c°33°i3 (33) part 5!. New. See. 33 (1) part, 33 (2) part
33 B (3) part. 33 (2A)
and 66 (7A). Sec- 33 (3) and 33 B (4) part Sec. 66 (5) part

Sec. 66A (1) part Sec. 66 (5) part Sec. 66 (6) . Sec. 66 (7) prov. and New. \
Sec. 66A (2)

Sec. 66A (3) part, New and
66A (4). D--/ippeals tn the Central Board afkmm

Appeals to the Central Board of Revenue

E----Rwi.\'ion by Cammistioner

Revision of order prejudicial to Revenue .
Revision of other orders . . . . F--'--General

Tax to be paid notwithstanding appeal . . Execution for costs awarded by Supreme Court 275. Amendment of assessment on appeal . 4; t

. New. sec. 2 .313(1) & 333(2) Sec. 33 A (1) part,§Sec. 33A(2) part» 366- 3354(3) Sec. 66(7) part & 66A(3)
xst prov. part. Sec. 66 A (3) 2nd prov. Scc- 31 (4) & 33 (5) modiﬁed- Clause 276.
277: 29x. 292. 293. 294.. 295. 296. 297. 298. 299. 87 S11bJ'€<'-t matte!' Existing section

Exclusion of time taken for copy . . , sec, 57A. Rules by the Supreme Court . . . . . Ncw,

Deﬁnitions . . . . . . . Sec. 66 (8) & New,

C H A P T E R XXII
PENALTIES IMPOSABLE BY INCOME-TAX AUTHORII IES

Failure to furnish information regarding securities etc. . Sec. 44 . E (6) part

Concealment of income or improper distribution of proﬁts

Failure to give notice of discontinuance . .
False estimate of or failure to pay advance tax: . .
Procedure . . . C . . . . . Bar against prosecution . . . . . CHAPTER XXIII
OFFENCES AND PROSECUTIONS

Failure to make payments or deliver returns or statements
or allow inspection . . . . . False statement in declaration. . . . . . Prosecution to be at instance of Inspecting Assistant
Commissioner . . . . . . . . Disclosure of particulars by public servants - CHAPTER XXIV

RECOGNISED PROVIDENT FUNDS. Recognition

According and withdrawal of recognition ' - a . Conditions to be satisﬁed by recognised provident 'unds

Relaxation of conditions . . . Repugnancy in regulations . . . Treatment of contribution: and balances

Employer's contributions when deducted in assessing his

income . . . .' . . ' . . Employer's annual contributions when 'deemed to be

income received by employee . _ .. . . .
Employer's contributions exempt

Exclusion of accumulated balance and
total income . . . Exclusions from

Tax on accumulated balance . . Deduction at source ofincome-tax payable on accumu-
lated balance . - '

Treatment of balance in newly in-ecogxiisedlfrrovident Funds Sec. 28 (I) , (2). Sec. 25 (2) pan

Sec. 18 A (9). Sec. 28 (3) , (6) and (5) Sec. 28 (4) . Sec. 51 . Sec. 52 . Sec. 53 . Sec. 54 (2) part, Sec. 54 (5)- Sec 583 (xi. (2), 3
& (3A) f ()

Sec. 58 C (I)'pa,tt. 566- 580) (I)';par.t. 58D

58 S (4
Sec. 58C (2)? New. Sec. 58E
Sec. 58F. Sec. 58G (2) Sec. 7 (1) ' Expl. 2, P 'v. part
Sec- 53G(3)&«.58G(r)part
Sec. 58H. I

Sec- 58.10). ( Ha) I:.(;). . Treatment qf Investment and Contribution: 'I'; Clause Subject matter 325. Receipt to be given . . . ; . h . . 326. Indemnity . . . 327. Bar of suits in Civil Court. 328. Act to have effect pending legislative provision for
charge of tax . . . ._ . . :'
B----Rule.t 329. Power to make rules . First Schedule Insurance business . . Second Schedule Procedure regarding recovery under vari-
ous modes mentioned in section 24 .2 (1)

Manner of recovery by distraint and sale
of moveablc property under section
246 (6) . . . .> . Third Schedule

Existing section Sec. 62 Sec. 65 Sec. 67 Sec. 67B Sec. 59 Schedule. New

New

Clauses 1-2
APPENDIX I

Proposals as inserted in_the __body of the existing Act'. (This is, however. not to be treated as a Draft Bill.)
_ [Corresponding sections of the existing Act are noted
in the margin, and additions to -the provisions of the exist-
ing Act are shown in the text in italics', wherever pos- sible.]
THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 19--- CHAPTER I

S . PREL'.[MINARY

s§f,';;'" mg; 1. (1) This Act may be called the ............. ..Income-
extent and tax Act, 19 . commence- (2) It extends to the whole of India. (3) It shall come into force on the 1st day of April,
om 9' 2. In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant izn
"Ag,;c,,1tuL the subject or context,--
ral income" I
[s. 2(1)]. (1) "agricultural income" means-- (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is
used for agricultural purposes, and is either asses-
sed to land revenue in India or subject to a local
rate assessed and collected by oﬁicers of the Gov-
ernment as such; ' (b) any income derived from such land by- (i) agriculture, or (ii) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of
rent-in-kind of any process ordinarily employed
by a cultivator or receiver of rent-in-kind to ren-
der the produce raised or received by him ﬁt to
be taken to market; or ' - (iii) the sale by a cultivator or receiver of rent-in-
kind of the produce raised or received by him
in respect of which no process has been perform-
ed other than a pmcess of the nature described
in paragraph (ii) of this sub-clause; : [Section re: determination of annual value for income [N''"]
from house property]; . (3) "Appellate Assistant Commissioner" means a person ".Appellate
appointed to be an Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Asilm-D'

_ . _ . com ' ' - V
lgcﬁme tax under section . . . . . . . .. 128(1) . . . . .. [Sect1on 5 er.._ E;'_";"(';)]

(4) "approved superannuation fund" and "recognised "AI>P1'°V°d
provident fund" have the meanings assigned to them in '"1*'"''"'"'''

section . . . . . . . .. 318 . . . . . . . .. [58N] and section 305 $3" "1{:::: super-tax or any other sum of money is payable under [5-1 (2)1
this Act. and includes- (a) every person in res act of whom any proceeding
under this Act has sen taken for the assessment
of his income or of the income of any other per-
son in respect of which he is" assessable, or of the
loss sustained by him' or by such other person
or of the amount of refund due. to him or to such
other person; ' (b) every person who is deemed 1;) be an assessee un- V,
_ der any provision of this Act; T . . (c) every person who is deemed id be an assessee in i
default under any provision bf this Act; 
(6) "assessment" includes re-assessment; ' '['§'::v°i'""°"'" (8 "avera e rate 0 income-tax" means the rate arriv-..
9 Average rate - ed at by dividing the amount of income-tax calculated on ofiilcoxne-tax

the total income, at the rate on rates applicable to the total and; average
income, by the total income: '.1 '
7-1 Law Com./58

a
I

. Clauez

ratcofsupen "average rate of super-tam" means the rate arrived at
tax" by dividing the amount of 'super-tax calculated on the
[NW] total income on which super-tax is chargeable, at the rate
or rates applicable to such total income, by such total in-
. come; =
"Business" (9) "business" includes any tlade, commerce or manu-
['- 9 (4)1 facture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade,
commerce or manufacture; o rials held for the purposes of his business, profes- sion or vocation: 303" ,,°f tral Board of Revenue constituted under the Central card
R°"°'_'"° ' of Revenue Act, 1924: 1

[S-2 (43)) ,

4 of 1924 , §
''Commission- (12) "Commissioner" means a person appointed t be a
 (5)) Commissioner of Income-tax under section 128(1) , [5 )]; sessable or was assess dd as a compan for the sess- H 01.1922 ment year 1947-1948 {ider the In ian Inc -tax
Act, 1922. or %which is declared by general 0 spe-
cial order of the Central Board of Revenue 0 be
a company for the pimposes of this Act; E

"Co-opc:a.- (14) "co-operative,society?'»'; eans a co-operative s iety

tiV¢=s0°i°tv"- registered under the§Co-ope? ive Societies .Act,. 19 2, or

{Sf (533 under any other law,for the,t_ime being in force in any

2 ° 19"' State for the registration of ogoioperative societies; «D;,e.;to,v= (15) "director", "manager? and "managing agen ", in

"Manager", relation to a company, have meanings respective as- .& "M3,'}a8' signed to them in the' Companies Act, 1956 ; 1

mg agent . i - , g

[s. 2 (8A)]

I of 1956. onal 93 Clause' 2

Director of Inspection, a Deputy Director of Inspection or
an Assistant Director of Inspection: tion entails the release by the company to its
share-holders of all or any part of the assets of
the, company; V (b) any distribution by a compa of debentures, de-
benture-stock or deposit certi cates in any form,
whether with or without interest, to the extent to
which the company possesses accumulated proﬁts,
whether capitalised or not ; (c) any distribution made to the _share-holders of a
company on its liquidation, tor the extent to which
the distribution is attributable to the accumulated
proﬁts of the company immediately before its li-
quidation, whether capitalised or not '; .(d) any distribution by a company on the reduction
of its capital to the extent to which the company
possesses accumulated proﬁts which arose after
the end of the previous year, ending next before
the 1st day of April, 1933, whether such accumu-
lated proﬁts have been capitalised or not; (e) any payment by a company, not being a company a
in which the public are substantially interested
within the meaning of section 117 [23A Expl. 1],
of any sum (whether as representing a part of =
the assets of the company or otherwise) by way 
of advance or loan to a shareh lder or any payment
by any such company; on beh L1'. or for the indivi-
dual beneﬁt of a sh eholde, ,to the extent to
which the company ' either? case possesses accu-
mulated proﬁts; but 'fﬂividen ""'idoes not include- (i) a distribution made in accor. ahce with sub-clause (c) or sub-clause (d) in res dt of any share issu-
ed for full cash colisiderati n where the holder
of the share is not entitled ,n the event of liqui-
dation to participate in the tstirplus assets; (ii) any advance or loa made t' }a shareholder by a
company in the oifdinary _ 'rse of its business
where the lending §of mo _ is a substantial
part of the busines of the company; (iii), any dividend paid by a company which is set off i
by the company against the .whole or any part f
of any sum previously paid by it and treated as

.. a dividend within the meaning of sub-clause (e), to the extent to which it is so set off. Explanation l.--The exp ssion 'T
wherever it occurs in this cl , sh
gains arising before the 1st d y of

 
 

'cumulated proﬁts". not include capital
,3 1946, or after the 94 Clause 2

 day of March, 1948, and before_ the 1st day of April,

Explanation 2.--The expression "accumulated proﬁts",
in sub-clauses (a), (b), (d) and (e), shall include all pro-
fits of the company up to the date of distribution or pay-
ment referred to in those sub--clauses. ces' if it is immediately derived from personal
exertion or represents a pension or superarmuation
or other allowance given to the assessee in respect
of his past services or the past services of any de- . ceased person; but does not include any such income on which
no income--ta.r. is payable under section 87(iii) (iv) and (v) [sub-section (2) of section 14 .] ............. 4i

Explanation.----Wh.ere any such income is, though it

is the income of another person, .... ..included in th as- , sessee's total income under the provisions of this ct, it
shall be regarded as earned income in the hands of the

\

assessee;"... ............ .. E 3 Q
E 95 Clause 2 (iv) the value of any beneﬁt or perquisite, whether
convert_i_ble into money or not, obtained from
a company either by a director or by any other
person who has 'a substantial interest in the
company, .......... .. and any sum paid by any such
company in respect of any obligation which but
for such payment would have been payable by
the director or other person aforesaid; (V) any sum chargeable to income-tax under section
41(2) [second and fourth provisos to clause (vii)
of s. 10(2) ] or under section 41 (3) , [the second
proviso to clause (xiv) of sub-section (2) of sec-
tion 10] and any sum chargeable to income-tax
under section 41(1) [sub-section (2A) of s. 10 ]
or under section 62(1) [sub-section (5) of sec-
tion 12]; any sum chargeable to income--taai' under section
28(ii) .... ..[sub-section (5A) of s. 10 ] or under sec-
tion 28(iii) [sub-section (6) of section 10 ]; (vii) .any capital gains chargeable under section 45 .... ..
[section 12B(1), main para, part dealing with
charge]; ' (vi) (viii) the proﬁts and gains of any business of insurance - carried on by a mutual insurance association or
by a co-operative society, computed in accord-
ance with section 44 [Rule 9 in the Schedule]
or any surplus taken to be such proﬁts and gains

by virtue of that provision: Explanation.--In this clause, the expression "person
who has a substantial interest in the company" means a
person who is concerned in the management of the busi-
ness of the company, being the beneﬁcial owner of shares,
not being shares entitled to a ﬁxed rate of dividend whe-
ther with or without a right to partiéipate in profits, car-
rying not less than twenty per cent. of the voting-power. (21) "Income-tax Officer" means a person appointed "Intome-tax
to be an Income-tax Ofﬁcer under section 128(1) or 128(2) 0536"'-
|'5(3)]; [s. 2 (7))

(22) "Indian company" means a company formed and sqnagan com-
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 , and 1nc1udes-- pany". . A (i) a company formed and registered under any Eso?x(g;5(i).]

previous companies slaw for; the time bein in
force in any part 0 India (bﬂher than the tate
of Jammu and Kas V ir); .'9.'4« 96 Clause 2 (ii) in the case of the State of Jammu and K ir,

a company formed and registered und r any
other law for the time being in force in that

State; Provided ...................... ..the registered office of the
"Inspecting company in all cases is in India.
é-"5""a."' (23) "Inspecting Assistant Commissioner" means a
Sig':e':','.5_' person appointed to be an Inspecting Assistant Commis-
[s. 2 (6D)] sioner of Income-tax under section 128(1) [5(3)];
 (24) "Inspector of Income-tax" means a person ap-
6E ' pointed to be an Inspector of Income-tax under section 128 M' )1 (2) [5(3)]- '['sM:g(§§)'ia'°"' (25) "Magistrate" means a Presidency Magistrate, or
' a Magistrate of the ﬁrst class ....... ..
:i'N°{*;'°Si' (26) "non-resident" means a person who is not a,"1'esi-
 dent".; . in sub-clauses (i) to (vi). I . I 5
':'(°I'$']"d"'.der ;;%rescribed" means prescribed by rules ma un- pany, body, or association upon Whom the In-
come-tax cer h .,served a notice of s in-
tention of eating ﬁlm as the principal cer
thereof; % j e

R

qr 97 - Clauses 2-3

(31) "public servant" has the same meaning as in the "P"'3_1i° W- Indian Penal Code , 1860; . ([391

4.5 of 1&0. - (32) "registered ﬁrm" means a ﬁrm registered under "Registered

the provisions of section 192 (a) or under that provision 5'm'- p
read with section 191 (7) [26A embodied in sections in the [" 2 ('91
chapter on ﬁrms dealing with registration]; ' (33) "regular assessment" meansithe assessment ....... .. "Regular " India within the meaning of section 6 [4Al; [New]

(35) "tax" means income-tax and super-tazc chargeable "Tax".
under the provisions of this Act; [New]

(36) "total income'? means total amount of in- ,"1'°ta1" included in the total income under a of the provisions of part]
Chapter III [Incomes which do not rm part of total in- '

come] and except any capital gain which is not includi- ble in the total income of an assessee; (38) "unregistered ﬁrm" means a zﬁrm which is not a ;}i!'1irl'eﬁg)i,s'tcr- registered ﬁrm. 4 . [s_ & ('ﬁn

\

CHAPTER II

BASIS OF CHARGE

; x
(1) Where any Central Act enacts gxtliat income-tax shall Sc ' ion 3_

be charged for any assessment year ﬁn any rate or rates, 0 '8' °""'
income-tar at that rate or those ratesishall be charged for °° °"""'
that year in accordance with, and sub ept to the provisions [' 31
of, this Act in respect of the total in me of every person 
of the previous year or years,-(as the qase may be, for that '
assessment year : 1 '

i
i

Provided that where by virtue of any provision of this
Act income-tax is to be chargeid in respect of the income of
a period other than the previous year, income-tax shall be
charged accordingly. (2) In respect of income chargeable under sub-section
(1), income-tax shall be ded ed at source or paid in
advance, where it is so ded ' le yable under: any
provision of this Act. = ' 98 Clause 4 - §£i°"'f*t ml (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the total in-
incgslg ° come of any previous year 'of a person who is a resident
Rcsidems, includes all income ......................... ..from whatever source

derived which- [3-4 (I) (3), (a) is received or is deemed to be received in India in
93"] such year by or on behalf of such person; or

[s.4-(i)(b)(i)] (b) accrues or arises or is deemed to accrue or arise to
him in India during such year; or

[s.4(i)(b)(ii)] (c) accrues or arises to him without India during such
year; or

[324 ('l (b) (01) having accrued or arisen to him without India he-
'")] fore the beginning of such year and after the 1st
day of April, 1933, is brought into or received in
India during such year by him or on his behalf; or

gt 4 (I) Expl (e) having accrued or arisen to him in a merged terri- s'4'("l"5'%b)"gi'i})' tory other than Cooch-Behar after the 1st day of

a'nd,_,(,4A)] April, 1933, and before the commencement 0 the
previous yearfor the assessment year 1949-19 0. is
brought into or received in any part of India lther
than that merged territory during such year by him
or on his behalf; or '

[Do.] (f) having accrued or arisen to him in a territory which,
immediately before the 1st day of November,
1956, was comprised in a Part B State other

than J ammu and Kashmir, or in the merged terri- tory of Cooch-Behar, after the 1st day of April; 1933
and before the commencement of the previousgyear
for the assessment year 1950-1951, is brought into
«or received in any part of India other than; that
territory or merged territory during such year by
him or on his behalf; or . : Clauses 4-5

(3) Income ................... .. accruing or arising without [S-4(1): meanS_ Previous year

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. [3:2.(")(i)(a) (a) the ﬁnancial year immediately preceding the as- gjﬁzfggft]
sessment year; or [S 2(").(i)(a) (b) if the accounts of the assessee have been made up mainpara,
to a date within the said ﬁnancial year, ................ .. latter part]
then, at tlie option 0% tihe assessee, the twelve
months en ing on suc ate; or -(-c) in the case of any person. business or company or [s- 2 (H) (i)
class of person, business or company, such period
as may be determined by the Central Board of Re-
venue or by any authority authorised by the Board
in this behalf; or (d) in the case of a business, profession or vocation .... .. [S- 9 (II) (0
....... ..newly set up_ in the said ﬁnancial year, the £,°a);']"-W" tion and ending with that period. As the case may be; (1') where the assessee is a partner in a firm and the [s_ 2(.,)(1,)]

firm has been assessed as such, then, in respect of
the assessee's share of the income ................... ..of
the ﬁrm, ...................... ..the riod determined as
previous year for the essmlazt of the income .... ..
................ ..oftheﬁ,; , Clauses 5-6 (g) in respect of proﬁts and'gains from life insurance
business, the year for whlch annual accounts are re-
4 of1938 quired to be prepared under the Insurance Act, 1938 ,
or under that Act as read with section 43 a the
31 of 1956 Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 , imme ' tely
preceding the assessment year ......................... ..
E, 2 (H) (1) (2) Where an assessee has newly set up a business, pro- c), _Prov., fession or vocation in the said ﬁnancial year and his accounts'

earlier Part] are made up to a date in the assessment year in respect of'
a period not exceeding twelve months from the date of such
setting up, then the assessee shall, in respect of that busi-
ness, profession or vocation, at his option, be deemed ta have-
no previous year for the said assessment year under sub-
clause (i) of clause (d) «of sub-section (1); and such option
shall, in relation to the immediately succeeding assessment.
year, have effect as an option exercised under sub-clause (i) of clause (e) of sub-section (1). Es. 2_(r 1) (i). (3) "Subject to the other provisions of this section, an
lifligﬁng assessee may have diﬁerent previous years in respqct of
' separate sources «of his income. E

 (4) ................ .. Where in respect of a particular s urce
of income .......... ..or ................... ..in respect of a bus ness,.
profession or vocation newly set up, an assessee hasionce
exercised the option under clause (b) or sub-clause ( i) of
clause (cl) «or sub-clause (i) of clause (e) of sub-secti (1)
or has once been assessed, than he shall not, in resp t of
that source, or, as the- case y be, business. Drofessi n or
vocation, be entitled to varyuﬁxe meaning of the expr ion;
'previous year' as then applicable to him, except wit the
' consent of the Income-tax Oﬂiﬁler and upon such cond ions. as the Income-tax Oﬂicer may . ink ﬁt to impose. ...... ..... .. Section 6 _ 'For the purposes of this Act---- 
ﬁfdigence In (1) any individual is resident in India in any previous

year. if he-- [s.-1A (a)(i)] (a) is in India in that year for a period amounti' g in.
all to one hundred and eighty-two days or mo ; or

[s. 4A(a)(ii)] (b) maintains or causes t6 be maintained for h'
dwelling place in India for a period or
amounting in 'all to due hundred and eight};-two
days or more in that year and has been in pndia
for any time in that year; or 3

[5- 4A(1)("i)3 (c) having within the four years preceding that I ear,
been in,.India for a pe iod or periods amounti g in
all to three h dred sixty-ﬁve days or mo e, is
in India for a eriod amounting in ll to
thirty days or more t year; ' I

 

_ 5 101 Clauses 6-8

(2) a Hindu undivided family, ﬁrm or other associa- 5- 'A (")1
tion of persons is resident in jlndia in any previous year,
unless during that year the control and management of its
aﬁairs is situated wholly without India; ......................... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3) a company is resident in India in any previous year, [s. 4A (c)]

1 --.- (i) it is an Indian company; or (ii) during that year the control and management of
its affairs is situated wholly in India; (4) every other person is resident in India in any pre-- [New]
vious year, unless during that gear the 'control and manage-
ment of his affairs is situate '' wholly without India; (5) if a person is residentin India in a previous year [N¢w]
relevant to an assessment year in respect of any source of
income, he shall be deemed to be residenlt in India in the
previous year relevant to the assessment year in respect of
each of his other sources of income; (6) a person is "not ordinarily resident" in India in [5-4{B(")(b)]
any previous year if such person is-- - (a) an individual .......... .., who has not_ been resident ;
in India in nine out oi the tens previous years pre- ;_
ceding that year. or .......... .. «has not during the 

seven years preceding that ye ' ,been in India for
a period of, or periodﬁ amoun ing in all to, seven
hundred and thirty days or moie; or (b) a Hindu undivided faniily ..... whose manager
has not been resident in nine outiof the ten previous '
years preceding that year, or has not dun the ;
seven years preceding ithat ye, r7 been in In ia for 
a period of, or period! amoun ing in all to, seven ;
hundred and thirty days or : é; The following incomes shall be dedmed to be received §°°' -7
in the previous year---- . 6:: efho be (i) the annual accretion in the previous year t6 the 'em' ed'
balance at the credit of an e ' loyee participating [Ne 3
in a recognised provid nt furm to the extent pro- i
vided in section 294 [ ,E]; (ii) the transferred balance in a recognised provident
fund, to the extent provided in section 299(3)

 

For the purposes of inclusion in the total income of an gghzndl
assessee, any dividend shall deem ,to be income of [8 2)

the previous year in which it is 'cl, crh ted or distributed mu 
or deemed to have been paid, Eited-V distributed....;..... carli pa; Clauses 9-11
§;§3ir';';9 _ The following incomes shall be deemed to accrue or
deemed") arise in India-- ac,cru9 or , (i) all income ...................... .. accruing or arising,
3"-5° "' Ind" whether directly or indirectly, through or from any
I'-.42 (1)- business connection in India, or through or from
 any property in India, or through or from any asset
_ or source of income in India, or through or from any
money lent at interest and brought into India in

cash or in kind or through or from the sale, ex- change ............. .. transfer or relinquishment of a
capital asset situate in India. {s- 42 (3) ] Explanation.---In the case of a 'business of which all the

operations are not carried out in India, the income of the
business deemed under this clause to accrue or arise in
India shall be only such part of the income as is reasonably

attributable to ............. .. the operations carried out in
India. '
E'-pf (211): (ii) income which falls under the head "Salaries" ....... .. ..................... .., if it is earned in India: ring nature, unless they are--- P'5~ ~ (i) capital gains, chargeable under the provisions of [s' 4(3)(vﬁ)1
section 45 [12B, part re: charge]; or (ii) receipts arising from business or the 'exercise
of a profession, vocation or occupation; or (iii) receipts by way of addition to the remuneration
of an employee; (4) in the case of a resident-- , ' Foreign (i) the unremitted foreign income chargeable to in- [
come-taac under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 4 [ section 4 (b) (ii) ], subject to the follow-
ing limit, that is to say,- (a) the amount not to be included in the total income
by virtue of this sub-clause shall not exceed four
thousand ﬁve hundred rupees; and (b) where any part of such unremitted foreign income
consists of salaries paid by the Government, a lo-
cal authority or a corporation' established by a
Central, State or Provincial Act , the amount of
such salaries not to be included as aforesaid shall
be further limited to a sum calculated at the rate
of one thousand rupees for each month of service

in respect of which the salaries are received ab-
road; (ii) any income accruing or arising outside India and [5, W , 4:1,
................ ..chargeable to incolme-tax by virtue of proviso'
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 4 [4 (1) (b) ' (iii)], if he was a non-resident in two out of the

three years immediately preceding the previous

[s. 4. (1), 3rd: income accruing or a ' 'ng ou ' ' India and char- P1'°

geable to income-tax y virt (of section 4(1) (d) '
[4(1) (b) (iii)], if within threei months of the date 
of receipt in India of uch indome .......... .. the ass ' ;
sessee makes paymenlp of the: dmount of income- i
tax, interest 1 or penalty or other' sum, if any, due
from him on such date; (iv) if such person is not ordinarily resident in India [S-46(1). nndi
during the previous year, income ....... .. which ac- P'°""°]
crues or arises to him without India .......... .. and
is neither derived from a business controlled in
or a profession or a vgocation 3 1; up in India nor

' brought into or received in I17. in by him during
the previous year;. § 3 1 - i

l04 '

Claue ll
Non-residents (5) in the case 013' a non«resident---
.{s- 4(3)(Xvi)] (i) any income from interest on, or from premium on

the redemption of, any bonds issued by the Central
Government under a loan agreement between the
Central Government and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, or by any
industrial -undertaking or ﬁnancial corporation in
India under a loan agreement with the said' Bank
which is guaranteed by the Central Government'

. . . . . . . . . . ..,

19- 4(3)(XX)] (ii) any income from interest payable without India
on a loan issued for gzublic subscription before the
1st day of April, 193 : - stay in India, provided the following conditions are ;fulﬁl- P"'°' .
1ed_ [S- 4(3) (XW)l (i) the foreign enterprise is not engaged in any trade'
or busmess in India;- (ii) the employee is not a citizen of India; (iii) his stay in India does not exceed in the aggregate
a period of ninety days in such previous year; (iv) his stay in India did nbt exceodyin the aggregate
a period of ninety days in any ﬁnancial year prior
to the previous year; and

(V) such remuneration is not liabie to be deducted

from the income, .......... .. of the employer charge-
able under this Act; (9) the remuneration, char able under the head "Sala- Foreign tech-
ries", ............. .. for services'r ndered Ibgy an individual. niCiaF|3- _
who is not a citizen of India, as a te pician in the emp- [5- .4[3)(""")
loyment of Government or of: a local :authority or of any ma"? Paul' .
corporation set up under any special law or in any busi-
ness carried on in India, if he-was not resident in any of
the four ﬁnancial years imm y iately preceding the ﬁnan-
cial year in which he arrived India,,--: to the extent men-
tioned below-- ' (i) .......... "where? a contract of . ice was approved [:3 )(xi_va).
by the Central Gove ent bzore the commence-2 '°""°]
ment of his service .... .._.su hij remuneration due If

to or received by h in. idual during the 
ﬁgin India and the

 
 
 

two ﬁnancial years n t foll , (ii) in other cases, such \ unerat due to or receiv- [s.4. )(xiva),
ed by such individual or the riod of three hu.n- 3'' ""°1
dred and sixty ﬁve d ys in a l, commencing from i
the date of his arriva, ......... ..a 1 . ;
Explanation 1 :--For the ipurpos of this clause, ser- [Nor]
vices rendered by an individiul in ation to a business
in India before its commencement sh l be deemed to be ' -a-rried on in India. s a person having [s.4. )(xiva)
constructional or E 11-]

 
 
 
 

specialised knowledge and ex rience; '
manufacturing operations, or min'y or in the genera- '
tion or distribution of electri ity or _ other form of ;
power, who is employed in I dia in f 3 capacity in which 3
such specialised knowledge and experience are actually
utilized: j , E
Provided that, in relation to-- [CL .x3(l), (a) a person to whom sub-clause (i) of this clause ap- Fin We Act»

plies and whose cont t of Tgiife was approved :95 2 which
ti 9 3 by the Central Gov men ore the 1st day C" M" an
of March, 1958, or

by the
Finance

Act, 1 958,
for certain
cases .]

Persons wor- king under
Technical
Assistance
Programmes

[=- 4(3) (")1

Death-cum- retirement
gratuity. [5'7(1)> Expl- 2 ,-Prov. ,pa.rt]

Payment
from a Provi- dent Fund. 19 of 1925
[s.7(I), Expl- 2 prov., part]
Accumulated
balance in
recognised
provident
fund. [New]

Payment
from
approved
superannua- tion fund. [s-7(_I).Exp1n. 2, prov-. part] 106 Clause 11 (b) any other person who arrived in India before the
1st day of April, 1958, "technician" means a, per-
son having specialised knowledge in industrial
arts and sciences and having experience in indus-
trial practice who is employed in India in a capa-
city in which such specialised knowledge and ex-
perience are actually utilized. '

(10) (i) in the case of an individual who is assigned
to duties in India in connection with any co-operative te-
chnical assistance programmes and projects in accordance
with an agreement entered into by the Central Govem-
ment and the Government of a foreign State (the terms
whereof provide for the exemption given by this clause)- (a) the remuneration received directly or indirectly
from the Government of that foreign State for
such duties, and (b) any other income of such individual which accrues
or arises outside India, and is not deemed to ac-
crue or arise in India, in respect of which such
individual is required to pay any income or social
security tax to the-'Government of that foreign

State; (ii) any income of the members of the family of such
individual accompanying him to India, which ac-
crues or arises outside India, and is not deemed
to accrue or arise in India, in respect of which
such member is required to pay any income or
social security tax to the Government of that
foreign State; .death-cum-retirement gratuity received
under the revised Pension Rules of the Central (lovem-
ment or under any similar scheme of a State Government,
a local authority or a corporation established by a Clentral,
State or Provincial Act ; (11) any ...... .,

(12) any payment from a provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act, 1925 , applies'; (13) the accumulated balance due and becomi g pay-.
able to an employee participating in a recognise g:81):]i- dent fund, to the extent provided in section ' 96 [ V

(14) any payment from an approved superannuation
fund made on the death of a beneﬁciary or in lieu of or
in commutation of an annuity, or by way of ref d of
contributions on the death of a beneficiary or on s leav-
ing the employment in connection with which the fund is
established; ' 107 Clause 11

(15) any special allowance or beneﬁt, not being in Allowance
the nature of an entertainment allowance or other perqui- for expenses
site within the meaning of section 17 , clause (3) [7(1)], [s. 4(3)(vi)]
speciﬁcally granted to meet expenses wholly and exclu-
sively incurred in the performance of the duties of an
office or employment of proﬁt, to the extent to which such
expenses are actually incurred for that' purpose; (16) (i) interest on the 10 year Treasury Savings De- Interest. __
posits Certiﬁcates or the monthly payments on the 15 year [5-4(3)(¥Vu)]

'Annuity Certiﬁcates issued by or under the authority of

the Central Government for an amount not exceeding the
maximum amount which is permitted to be invested
therein; . (ii) interest on deposits in Post Office Savings Bank. [3_4(3)(xvia.)]

Post Office Cash Certiﬁcates, Post Office National
Savings Certiﬁcates and Post 'Office National Plan
Certiﬁcates for amounts not exceeding in each
case the maximum amount which is permitted to'
be deposited or invested therein; ' (iii) interest on securities held by the Issue Depart- [s.4.(3)(xviii)]
ment of the Central "Bank of Ceylon constituted
under the Ceylon Monetary Law Act, 1949; (iv) interest payable-- E:-3i(3)))] (a) by Government or a local authority on moneys
borrowed by it from sources outside India from
any non-resident or from any institution estab-
5 lished outside India; (b) by an industrial undertaking in India on moneys
borrowed by it under a loan agreement entered
into with any such ﬁnancial institution in a
foreign country as may be approved in this be-
half by the Central Government by general or
special order; (c) by an industrial undertaking in India on any
moneys borrowed or debt incurred by it in a
foreign country in respect of the purchase out-
side India of capital plant and machinery in any
case where the loan or debt is approved by the
Central Government, having regard to its terms
generally and in particular to the terms of its

repayment; _
ti (17) scholarships, granted to meet the cost of educa- Scholarships

0"" . [New]
[Sceitcm5of

(18) any income chargeable under the head "Income notification
from house property" in respect of a building the erection No. 878F(In-
of which is begun and completed between the 1st day °°m'¢-tax) th-
of April, 1946, and the 31st day of March, 1956, (both dates f" '9""3"m
inclusive), for a period of two years morn the date of such nnc
completion; . : [,4

8--l Law C0m.I58. building
) (xii)! 108 Clause 11 '

1l3c:l;Yo?1!1I';;"I:: (19) any daily allowance received by any person by
hm ofPar"a_ reason of his membership of Parliament or of any State

me," and Legislature or of any Committee thereof; LCSM3' (20) any payment made, whether in cash or in kind,
[M(,',)(x;x)] by the Central Government or any State Government in
Gallantry pursuance of gallantry awards instituted or approved by

awards- the Central Government; Ef;;*,';°"'§i§Z§,. (21) any amount received by the Ruler of an Indian

E8514 (3) (x) State as privy purse under article 291 of the Constitu-
3 tion; Local autho- I (22) (i) income of a local authority chargeable under
'iS'i°5- the head "Interest on securities", "Income from house Spro-
ga'r;*](3) ('")' perty", "Capital gains" or "Income from other source ';
[s. 4 (3) (iii) (ii) income from a trade- or business carried on 4 by a
Part] local authority which accrues or arises from the supply
of a commodity or service within its own Jurisdictional

area; Scientiﬁc Re. _(23) any income of a scientiﬁc research assbciation for
search Asso- the time being approved for the purposes of section 35(1) f§3"'Z")-(Kim (ii) [10 (2)_(xiii)] which is applied solely to the purposes of

'4 3 that association; 1
Educational (24) any income of a University or other educafional
{1'\'§':i"'°"5- institution, existing solely for educational purpose, and
[See item ,2 not for purposes of proﬁt; .
oi Notiﬁca- tion No.878F
I -1

éartiggme ax) . " vice of Government. '

I 109 Clause 12

(1) Subject to the provisions of sections 63 to 66 , [16 ?°"i°" f *9-
(1) (c)], the following income shall not be included in the '''°""' '°"'

total income of the previous year of the person in receipt E;-°p°,:,?i'g};'§:,(: international welfare in which India is interest- §
ed, applied to such purposes outside India, and 

for charitable or religious purposes created be- "i5° "(W
fore the 1st day of April, 1952, applied to such
purposes outside India, ' (b) income from property held under trust ................ .. R04 (3) (1)

if the Central Board of Revenue by general or special 
order directs in either case that it shall not be included in i
the total income of the person in receipt of such income. '

Explanation.----In this sub-section, "property" does not '
include business. ' _

(2) Subject to the provisions of sections 63 to 66 [16(1) 54 (3) 53). (c)], any income derived from businqst»: carried on by or on '°"' ( )'
behalf of a'trust_ ﬁor charittﬂﬂe or rblhgious purposes shall 1
not be included in the total income of the previous yearpof '
the trustees, if the conditions speciﬁed in sub-section (4)
are satisfied. (3) Any income derived from business carried. on by 4 (3) (i)
or on behalf of a religious or charitable institutionshall not . °" (b): ﬁciaries of the trust or institution. 4(3) (ii)] (5) Any income of a trust ﬁor charitable or religious
purposes or a religious or charitable institution, derived
from voluntary contributions and applicablesolely to
charitable or religious purposes shall not be included in the
total income of a previous year of the trustees or the insti-
tution, as the case may be. . [5, 4(3), last (6) Nothing contained in this section shall operate to
para. part] exempt from the provisions of this Act that part of the
income from property held under a trust ............. ..for pri- vate religious purposes, which does not enure for the bene-
fit of the public. [s. 4(3). last E:r'planation------In this section,- Pam pm] (a) "charitaﬁole purpose" includes relief of the poor,
education, medical relief and 'advancement of any
other object of general public utility; [New] (b) "trust" includes any other legal obligation. [Cf. s. 4(3) ' (i), main

para. 5- 4 (3) (i),

§L'°Y.-) (3) (0 (1) Where any business, profession or vocation _on
s_ (;'(3;')' last which income-tax was at any time charged under the pro- para] visions of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1918, is discontinued, section ,3 , then, unless the provisions of sub-section (2) have been
Business as- rendered applicable by virtue of there having been a sac-
Sesscd under cession, the income, .......... .. of the period from the date

 AIC':,°':';'I°é of commencement of the previous year in which the busi- [s, 25(3), ness was discontinued to the date of ................ .. disconti- part] nuance, shall not be_included in the total income of the

7 Of 1913 person who was carrying on the business, profession or voca-
tion. '

gm] 25(4)» (2) Where the person who was on the 1st day of April,
1939, carrying on any business, profession or vocationzon
which inoome-tax was at any time charged under the pro-
.V1SiOnS of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1918, is succeeded
in such capacity by another person, the change not merely
being a change in the constitution of a firm, the income
 ........ ..of such business, profession or vocation of the
period from the date of commencement of the previous year
in which the su-ccession took place to the date of ......... 
succession shall not be includedtin the total income of the
first mentioned person. a ' 

7of 1918 111 Clauses 13-16

(3) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall not E} . '-'5%)]
apply to a business, profession or vocation on which in- '°'"'° ( )'
come-tax was at any time charged in the hands of a com-
pany under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1886, or on which 2 "I336
income-tax would have been charged in the hands of a
company for the assessment year ending ' n the 31st day
of March, 1918, if the company, having een in existence
in that year, had also been in existence in the year ending
on the 31st day of March, 1917. CHAPTER IV
COMPUTATION OF TOTAL INCOME

Heads of income

Save as otherwise provided by this Act, all income ﬁfgnof ﬁg;
shall, for the purposes of charge of income-tax and co_m- cmm,
putation of total income, be 'classiﬁed under the following [s. 6]

heads of income- A--Sa1aries. B----Interest on securities. C----Income from house property. D---Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or voca-
tion. E--Capita1 gains. F--Income from other sources. A--Salaries
Section I 5

The following income shall be chargeable to income- Salaries.
tax under the head "Sa1aries"---- [ ( )
3- 7 I 2 (a) any salary .......... ..due from an employer or former main para.
employer to an assessee in the previous year, whe- Part]
ther paid or not; (b) any salary paid or allowed to him in the previous
year by or on behalf of the employer or former
employer though not' due or before it became due
to him; _ (c) any arrears of sala paid to him in the previous
year by or on behgf of the employer or former ~
employer, if not charged to income-tax for any .
earlier previous year. Section '16
The income chargeable under the 'head "Salaries" shall
be clomputed after making the following deductions,
name y--- (i) any amount not exceeding ﬁve hundred rupees,
expended by the assessee cm the purchase of books l
and other publicatitns necdssary for the purpose ;
of his duties; E A - ' . 3 d , 112 Clauses 16-17

[s. 7 (2) (ii)] (ii) in respect of any allowance in the nature of an
entertainment allowance speciﬁcally granted to the
assessee by his employer- (a) in the case of an assessee who is in receipt of
a salary from the Government, a sum equal
to one-ﬁfth of his salary (exclusive of any'spe-
cial allowance, beneﬁt or. other perquisites) or
ﬁve thousand rupees, whichever is less; and (b) in the case of any other assessee who is in
receipt of such entertainment allowance and
was in receipt of such entertainment allowance
regularly from his present employer before the
1st day of April, 1955, the amount of such
entertainment allowance regularly received by
the assessee from his present employer in any
previous year ending before the 1st- da of
April, 1955, or a sum equal to one-ﬁfth or his
salary (exclusive of any special allowance,
beneﬁt or other perquisites) or seven thousand
ﬁve hundred rupees, whichever is the least;..... 1r::5,Z;(,:) (Ha) (iii) .......... ..where the assessee is not in receipt of a
conveyance allowance whether as such or as paift of

[s_ 7 (2) (;;a) his salary, and owns a conveyance which is {used

main para] for the purposes of his employment, such sum as
the Income-tax Oﬂicer may estimate in respect of
such use as representing the expenditure incurred
by him in its maintenance and as representing its
normal wear and tear; [s. 7(2) (iii)] (iv) any amount actually expended by the assessee,._not
being an amount expended on the purchase of
books or other publications, or on,entertainmen'1: or
on the maintenance of a conveyance, which, by? the
conditions of his service, he is required to s nd
out of his remuneration wholly ............. ..and e lu-
sively in the performance of his duties. _ ; Section 17- For the purposes of sections 15 and 16 [preceding pec-
Im" Pma' tions re: salary] and of this section,------- . E

tion. '
"Employer" (1) "employer" means an em loyer, who is the Central
[-3- 7(I)aPa"l Government, a State overnment, any forfign
Government, a local authority, a company, any;.....
.......... ..public body or' association, or any private
employer; ' _'
"Sa1ary"- (2) "salary" includes- [S- 7(I)»part] (i) any salary or wages; (ii) any annuity or pension; (iii) any gratuity;_ (iv) any fees, commissi l perquisites or proﬁt' in ,

lieu of or in iadditio to any salary or wag ; i 113 Clause 17 (v) advances by way of loan or otherwiseof the
amounts enumerated in sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii)
and (iv) above; (vi) the annual accretion to the balance at the credit [New]
of an employee participating in a recognised pro-
vident fund, to the extent to which it is charge-
able to tax under section 294 ' [58E]; (vii) the aggregate of all sums that are comprised in [New]
the transferred balance, as referred to in section.
299(2) [58J (2)] of an empio ee participating in
a recognised provident fun , to the extent to
which it is chargeable to tax under section 299(3)
[58-T (3)1; (3) "perquisite" includes---- E'-:pln'l]7(I) (i) the value of rent free accommodation .......... ..pro- [mam (i)
vided to the assessee by his employer; Daft] (ii) the value of any concessi9n'in the matter of rent 6)
respecting any accommodation provided to the
assessee by his employer; (iii) the value of any beneﬁt or amenity granted or
provided ............. ..ﬁree of cost or at concessional
rate in any of the following cases :-- _ ' (a) by a company to an employee who is a direc- [Wm (ii)

tor thereof .......... .. pap] (b) by a company to an employee who is a share- [Wm (ii)-
holder concerned in the management of the 5:" 8 2('§E')!
company and is the beneficial owner of shares, (ﬁgi '
not being shares entitled to a fixed rate of ?
dividend whether with or without a right to '
participate in proﬁts, carrying twenty per
cent or more of the voting power; (c) by any employer,(including a company) to an [mm » (iﬁn
employee to whom th provlsions of para- f
graphs (a). and (b) of is sub-clause do not
apply and whbse incdme under the head 2
"Salaries" exclusive of the value of all bene- g
ﬁts or amenities not 'provided by way of ; '
monetary payment exceeds eighteen thousand 9
rupees; ' (iv)\any_ sum paid by the emplqyer in respect of any (iv)]
obligation which but for such payment would '
have been payable by the assessee; and (v) any sum payable by the employer, whether
directly or through 'a fund other than a recognised
provident fund or an appnoved superannuation
fund to effect an assurance on the life of the
assessee or to effec a conti-'got for an annuity on
the life of the assa e; * 5

l 114 Clauses 17-20

'l'i1;fl°ﬁ" (4) "proﬁts in lieu of salary" includes-- \
salary" _

[s. 7 (I), (i) the amount of any compensation due to or received
Explm 2 by an assessee from his employer or former em- '"31" Pm] ployer at or in connection with, the termination of

his employment, whether solely as compensation for
loss of employment, or for any other consideration; (ii) the amount of any contributions to an approved
superannuation, fund (including interest on such
contributions) paid to an employee, to the extent to
which such amount is deemed to be the income of
the employee under section 312 [58-5(1)]; (iii) without prejudice to the provisions of sub-clause (ii)
of this clause, any payment due to or received by
an assessee from an employer or former employer
or from a provident or other fund, (not being an
approved superannuation fund), to the extent to
which it does not consist of contributions by the
assessee or interest on such contributions. B. Interest on securities Section 18 .. The following amounts received by an assessee. in the
1m°r°,8t 0" previous year shall be chargeable to income-tax under the

securities. :4 - - ,- n __
{L8, m Pam] head Interest on securities .......... .. (i) interest ............. ..on any security of the Central
Government; (ii) interest on any security of a State Government; (iii) interest on debentures or other securitiespfor mo-
ney issued by or on behalf of a local authority or
a company. section ,9_ Subject to the provisions of section 21 [section regarding- Deductions. amounts not deductible], the income chargeable undelr the

is 8 m m_ head "Interest on securities" shall be computed after mak- ,,i',,,,, earfcr ing the following deductions- Part] (i) any reasonable sum expended by the assessee for
the purpose of realising such interest; ............. .. (ii) any interest payable on moneys borrowed for the
purpose of investment in the securities by the as- sessee. Section 20 . Banking (1) In the case of a banking company---- ,
C°mpa"V' (i) the sum to be regarded as a sum reasonabl ex-
[s. 8, Expln. pended for the purpose referred to in clause i) of (a) Part] section 19 [section regarding deductions] shal be

an amount bearing to the aggregate of its expen-
ses as are admissible under the provisions of sec-
tions 30, 31, 36 and 37, other than clauses (3), (5)
and (6) of section 36 , [sub-section (2) of secti n 10
(other than clauses 4=(iii), (vi), (via), (vib), vii), (viii), (xi), (xii), (xii): and (xiv) thereof)]§ the 3 (ii) 115 Clauses 20-21

same proportion as the gross recei ts from interest
on securities (inclusive of tax de ucted at source)
chargeable to income-tax under section 18 [main
section re: Interest on Securities] bear to the gross
receipts of the company from all sources which
are included in the proﬁt and loss account of the
company ; ............. .. ....... ..the amount to be regarded as interest paya- [s. 8. Expln. ble on moneys borrowed for the purpose referred (b) Part]

to in clause (ii) of section 19 [section regarding
deductions] shall be an amount which bears to the
amount of interest payable on all moneys borrow-
ed by the company the same proportion as the
gross receipts from interest on securities (inclu-
sive of tax deducted at source) chargeable to in-
come-tax under section 18 [main Section for in-
terest] bear to the gross receipts from all sources
which are included in the proﬁt and loss account
of the company; (2) The expenses deducted under clauses (i) and (ii)
of sub-section (1) shall not again form 3pa'rt of the,deduc- tions admissible under sections 30 to
of section 10 ] for the purposes of
the company under the head

7 [sub-section (2)
computing the income of
"Proﬁts and gains of business,

profession or vocation". Explanation :----For the purposes of this section,

[s. 8, Expln. (a) and (b)
last lines]

"rno- [s. 8, Expln. neys borrowed" includes moneys received by way of de-(b)5m1in=]

posits. Notwithstanding anything contained

and 20
pany] ,

computing the income chargeable under the head
on securities"-- (i) (ii)

I (iii)

[sections regarding
the following amounts shall not be deducted in

interest chargeable under this Act which is paya- in sections 19 S°°"°n 9'

Amounts not

Part]

ble outside India (not. being interest on a loan . issued for public subscription before the 1st day
of April, 1938) on which tax has not been paid or
deducted under section 202 or 204 [ section 18 ] and
in respect of which there is_ no person in India
who may be treated as an agent under section 173 [ section 43 ] ; «

su/rns expended by the assessee for the purpose of
realising interest on securities on which no income-
tax is payable under section 87 (i) or 87 (ii) [s.
8 provisos 2 and 3]; . '

interest payable on money borrowed for the pur- pose of investment in securities, being securities,

on the interest on w ' h no
under section 87(1) oi 87(ii)

irqome-tax is payable
and 3]. \ 

section 8, provisos 2

deductions and banking com- deductiblm

"Interest l',- 3» '3' PN- viso, lat

ler Section 22 . Income from
house pro- perty. s. 9 (1) open- mg para] Section 23 . Annual value s. 9 (2) , 1st
para]

[New]

[s. 9'(2), Ist
proviso]

[s. 9. (2), 2nd
proviso, ex- cept last line] 116 Clauses 22-23

C. Income from: house property

The .. . . . . . . annual value of property consisting of
any buildings or lands appurtenant thereto of which the
assessee is the owner, other than such portions of such
property as he may occupy for the purposes of any busi-
ness, profession or vocation carried on by him the proﬁts of
which are assessable to income-tax, shall be chargeable to
income-tax under the head "Income from house property". (1) For the purposes of section 22 [chargeability of
income from house property], the annual value of any pro-
perty shall be deemed to be the sum for which'the pro-
perty might reasonably be expected to let from year to
year. (2) In determining the sum for which the property
might reasonably be expected to let from year to year, due
regard may be had, where the property is let to a tenant,
to the following factors, besides others, namely- (i) the annual rent agreed to be paid by the tenant; (ii) the other obligations, if any, undertaken by the te-
' nant on behalf of the owner, including the y-
ment of taxes due to the Government or a? ocal

authority ; ~

the annual value of the property, if any, fixed
by the local authority for the purposes of any tax

on property levied by it; and ,

the rents of properties in the neighbourhood' simi- larly situated and with similar advantages. (3) . . . . . Where the property is in the occupation of
the owner for the purposes of his own residence; the
annual value of the property . . . . . . shall be the annual
value of the property determined in the same manner as
if the property had been let, reduced by the lower of the
following---- * (iii) (iv) (i) one half of such annual value, or (ii) oneithcusand eight hundred rupees ; but shall in no case exceed eleven per cent. of all i V ome
of the assessee, other than the annual value of such pro-
perty, liable to inclusion in his total income under this
Act. i

(4) . . . . . Where the property referred to in su sec-
tion (3) consists of one residential house only and i can-
not actually be occupied by the owner by reason the
fact that owing to his employment, business, professibn or
vocation carried on at any other place, he has to reside
at that other place in a building not belonging to? him,
................ ..the annual value of such house shall- (a) if the house was not gactually occupied by the
owner durin .the wl$>1e of the previous ye , be
taken to be l, or '~ '

l

1 17
Clauses 23-24 (b) if the house was actually occupied by the owner
for a fraction of the previous year, be taken to be
that fraction of the annual value determined un-
der sub-section (3); provided the following conditions are in either case fulﬁl-
led:-- in respect of the property ....... ....... .. (ii) in respect of repairs,--- [5 gm (0 (a) where the property is in the occupation of the part] ' '

owner, ......................... ..a sum equal to one-sixth
of the annual value ; (b) where the property is let to a tenant and the V .
owner has undertaken to bear the cost of re- ["3]3(') 0)'
pairs, a sum equal to one-sixth of the reduced .
annual value; (iii) where the property is in the occupation of a te- , ,,
nant who has undertaken to bear the cost of re- §l'a]§"(') 0')
pairs--- "Paul (a) the diﬁerence between the reduced annual value
and the amount of rent payable for a year by
the tenant, or (b) one-sixth of such value,
whichever is less; / (iv) the amount of any_- annual premium paid to insure [" 9K')(i")]
the property against I'lSk of damage or destruc-
tion; (v) where the 'property is subject to -a mortgage or other $531!') (W)
capital charge, the amount of any interest on ;
such mortgage or charge; 3 _ (vi) where the property is subject 1: an annual charge, r[,:,',?]:(') W)'
not being a capital charge, I e amount of such i
charge ; ,. _ (vii) where the property is subject to a ground rent, §,;r?](') (W)
the amount of such ground rent ; (viii) where the property has been acquired, construct- [S- 9(1) (iv)-
ed, repaired, renewed r reco_ s ructed with bor- 93"];
rowed capital, the arn;unt_o£3 y interest paya- '
ble on such capital ; ' ' 118 Clauses 24-21

It 9 (1) M] (ix) any sums paid on account of land revenue in res-
pect of the property; 9-90) (''01 (x) amounts spent to_ collect the rents from the pro-
perty, not exceeding six per cent. of the reduced
annual value of the property; I

[s. 9 (x)(vii)] (xi) where the property is let and was vacant during a
part of the year, that part of the reduced annual
value which is proportionate to the period during
which the property is wholly unoccupied or, where
the property is let out in parts, that portion of the
reduced annual value appropriate to any vacant
part, which is proportionate to the period during
which such part is wholly unoccupied; t[:'3°";}f*':§;i_ (xii) such amount, in respect of rent from property l'et

ﬁcation No. to a tenant which the assessee cannot realise, as
878F dated may be prescribed. ?tlei'?1-13%)?' Escplanation.--In this sub-section, "reduced annual

value" means the annual value as reduced by one-half of
the total amount of taxes levied by any local authority in
respect of the property. (2) The totaliamount deductible under sub-section (1)
[S 9 (2) 2nd in respect of property of the nature referred to in section
p,'m,iso'1ast 23(4) [sub_--section in section deﬁning annual value, relat-
um] ing to residential house not occupied] shall not exceed the
annual value of the property as determined under section
23 [section for annual value]. ' Section 25 . Notwithstanding anything contained in section 24 Amourats not ':[section regarding deductions], the following amounts
d°d"°"b'°- shall not be deducted in computing the income chargeable

Er-ogigg (iv): under the head "Income from house property"- any annual charge or interest .......... ..chargeable under
this Act which is payable outside India (not being interest
on a loan issued for public subscription before the 1st day
of April, 1938), ...................... ..on which tax has not been
paid or ................... ..deducted under section 202 or 204 [18]
and in respect of which there is no person in India who
may be treated as an agent under' section 173 [43]. Section 26 . Where property consisting of buildings or buildings
Propcrw and lands appurtenant therwo is owned by two or more
gxgfvien Y persons and their respective shares are deﬁnite and ;ascer-
' tainable, such persons shall not in respect of such property
I" 9 (3)1 be assessed as an association of persons, but the share of
each such person in the income from the property as com-
puted in accordance with sections 22 to 25 [section re: com- putation] shall be included in his total income. scct.-0,. ,7, For the purposes of sections 22 to 26 [sections regard-
I_n:crprc:a- ing income from house property]
 (4) (3)1 (i) the holder of: an im rtible estate shall be deemed

to be the individua ;owner of all the properties
comprised in the estate; i 119 Clauses 27-28 (ii) a member of a co--operative society to whom a [8-9(4)(b)]
building or part thereof built by the society is
allotted or leased under --a house building scheme of
the society shall be deemed to be the owner of that
building or part thereof,' '

(n1) .......... .."annua1 charge" means a charge to secure [s- 9 (I). an annual liability, but does not include any tax in E"P"!: "°'°W,

respect of property or income from property impos- '
ed by a local authority, or a State Government or
the Central Government ; l (iv) "capital charge" means a charge to secure the dis-. [New]
charge of a liability of a capital nature; (v) taxes levied by a local authority in respect of any [S- 9 (4) (0)1
property shall be deemed to include service taxes
levied by the local authority in respect of the
property. D--Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or vocation

The following income shall be chargeable to income- S°°'t=,li°n 23-
taa: under the head "Proﬁts and gains of business, profes--- P'9m" and

. . gal of
sion or vocat1on"-- busmas' (i) the proﬁts and gains of any business, profession or ggffgzn 0'
vocation which was carried on by the assessee at '

any time during the previous year; 0)' (ii) any compensation or other payment due to or re-- ls' "° (54)? . opening line
celved by:-' and last para,

earlict half] (a) a managing agent of an Indian company, at or [s.1o(sA)(a)]
in connection with the termination or modiﬁca-
tion of his managing agency agreement with
the company; (b) a manager of an Indian company at or in con- [s_,o(5A)(1,)1
nection with the termination of his office or
modiﬁcation of the terms and conditions relat- ) ing thereto; 11 d

(c any person, by whatever name ca e , managing . C

K the whole or substantially the Whole affairs of [8 w(5A)( )1
'any other company in India, at or in connection
with the termination of his oﬁice or the modi-
ﬁcation of the terms' and conditions relating
thereto; (d) any person, by whatever name called, hold- [,_,o(5A)(d)} '

ing an agency in India for any part of the
activities relating to the business of any other
person, at or in connection with the termination
of the agency or the modiﬁcation of the terms
and conditions relating thereto ; (iii) income derived by a trade, professional or similar [s. 10(6)]
association from specific; service ferformed for its
members for remuneration degipitely related to
those services ............. ...... .. : - the purposes of the business, profession or vocation the fol- .R°P""= and

lowing deductions shall be allowed-- 
plant and. urrﬁture. (i) the amount paid on account of current repairs [3-"°(2)(")»
thereto ' P""f9'
' macliuncry
' etc. (ii) .......... .. _the amount 0 any_premium paid in res- [5, no (Q)(iv),
pect of Insurance agamst ms]! of damage or des- part; for ma-
truction thereof. °h"*=FY etc-]

(1) In respect of depreciation of buildings, machinery, Section 32 .
plant or furniture owned by the assessee and used for the Depfreciation.
purposes of the business, profession or" vacation, the fol-
lowing deductions shall, subject to the provisions of sec- tion 34 [section re: conditions' for depreciation], be allow-
ed-- '

'(i) in the case of ships other than ships ordinarily s.1Q(2)(vi),
plying on inland waters, such percentage (for tstipam,
each completed month of user) on the original Pm" percentage (for each. completed month of user) P'
on the written down value therieof as may in any 1
case or class of cases be prescribed; I , (iii) in the case of buildirfs newgl erected or machi- [s.1 (2)(via),
nery or plant being n w whi has been installed, P t
after the 31st day of March, 1948, a further sum... '
equal to the amount deductible under clause (i) or (ii), allowable for five consecutive previous years,
including the previous year of erection or installa-
tion. Explanation.--F-or the purposes of clause (iii), any [s.xp(2)(via),

extra deduction for double 0 multi :3 shift working of

the machinery or plant adm' 'ble ,' er clause (ii) shall .1

be ignored. Clauses 32-33

s.io(2)(vii), (iv) in the case of any ............. ..building, machinery or
'Patel plant which is sold or discarded or demolished or
destroyed in the previous year, the amount by

which the moneys received in respect of such

[s.1o(2) building, machinery, or plant, together with the
(Vii). Ist amount of scrap value, if any, fall short of the writ-
P'°"'-] ten down value thereof, provided such deﬁciency

is actually written of in the books of the assessee. Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, the
"moneys received" in respect of any building, machinery
or plant shall include---- [s.1o(2)(vii), (a) any insurance, salvage or compensation moneys
3rd P'°"i'°» received in respect thereof; modiﬁed]

[New] (b) where the building, machinery or plant is sold, the

price for which it is sold, whether such price has
been actually realised or not. [s.10(2)(vi), (2) Where, in the assessment of the assessee, (or, if the
Pm"-2 (b): assessee is a registered ﬁrm or an unregistered ﬁrm assess-
pm] ed as a registered ﬁrm, in the assessment of its partners)

full effect cannot be given to any ....... .. allowance under

clause (i) or (ii) of sub-section (1) [10(2)(vi), main para] in
any previous year owing to there being no proﬁts or gains
chargeable for that previous year, or owing to the proﬁts or
gains chargeable being less than the allowance, then, sub-
ject to the provisions of sections 73(3) and 74(3) [Sub-sec- tion' (3) of main Section rezset off in business], the allow- ance or part of the allowance to which eﬁect has not been
given as the case may he, shall be added to the amount of
the allowance for de reciation for the following previous
year and deemed to e part of that allowance, or if 'athere
is no such allowance for that previous year, be deemed to be
the allowance for that previous year, and so on for suc-
ceeding previous years ................ .. Section 33- In respect of a new ship acquired or new machinery
D°V°1°Pm°"' or plant installed after the 31st day of March 1954 ' hich
'°ba'°' - is wholl used for th ' ur oses of the business on
[s.r_o(2)(v1b) , Y , 9 P P

mam para] by the assessee, a sum by way of development rebate. ....... ..equivalent to,- (i) in the case of a ship acquired after the 31st y of
December, 1957, forty per cent. of the-actua cost,
of the ship to the assessee, and -- at (ii) in the case of a ship acquired before the 1st y of
January, 1958, and in the case of any mac ery
or plant, twenty-ﬁve per cent. of the actual cost
of the ship or machinery or plant to the assessee
shall, subject to the revisions of section 34 [sec-
tion re 2 conditions or depreciation], be allow-
ed as a deduction in respect of the previouszyear
in which the ship was" acquired' or the mach ery
on plant was iristalledgor, if the ship, machin or

E 123

Clause 33

plant is first put to use in the immediately suc-
ceeding previous year, then. in respect of that pre-
vious year. Explanation 1.--In the case of a ship acquired or ma-
_chinery or plant installed after the 31st day of December,
1557, where the total income of the assessee assessable for
the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which
the ship was acquired or the machinery or plant installed
(the total income for this purpose being computed without
making any allowance under this section) is nil or is less
than the full amount of the development rebate calculated
at the rate applicable thereto under this section,--- (i) the sum to be allowed by way of, development re-
bate for that assessment year under this section
shall be only such amount as sufficient to reduce
the said total income to nil ; and (ii) the amount of the development rebate, to the ex-
tent to which it has not been allowed as aforesaid,
shall be carried forward to the following assess-
ment year, and the development rebate to be al-
lowed for the following assessment year shall,be
such amount as is sufﬁcient to reduce the total
income of the assessee assessable for that assess-
ment year, computed in the manner aforesaid, to
nil, and the balance of the development rebate,
if any, still outstanding shall be carried forward
to the following assessment year and so on, so
however that no portion of the development re-
bate shall be carried forward for more than eight
assessment years immediately succeeding the as-
sessment year for which the development rebate
was first allowable. Explanation 2.--Where for' any assessment year deve-
lopment rebate is to be allowed in accordance with the pro-
visions of Explanation 1, in respect of ships acquired or
machinery or plant installed in more than one previous
year, and the total income of the assessee assessable or
the assessment year relevant to that previous year (t e
total income for this purpose being computed without mak-
ing any allowance under this section) is less than the aggre-
gate of the amounts due to be allowed in respect of the
assets aforesaid for that assessment year, the following pro-
cedure shall be followed, namely :-- " graph (1) of that Explanation is made; and (ii) where an allowance has to be made under para-
graph (ii) of Explanation 1 in respect of amounts
carried forward from more than one assessment
year, the amount carried forw d from an earlier
assessment year shall bd allow before any amount
carried forward from later fsessrnent year. 9-1 Law Com. 58 § 2 3

V latter half] 124 scctiém 34 Clause 34

C " . fa':-ndl(§,(:-zzia. (1) The deductions referred to in sub-section (1) of
tion all0wan- section 32 .......... ..[s. 10(2)(v1) 10(2) (via), and (vii)] shall

03 and d°V¢' be allowed only if the prescribed particulars have been fur-
]r';1§')';'t:"' nished; and the deduction referred to in section 33 .......... ..
I ' .. [s. 10(2)(vib)] shall be allowed only if the particulars pres-
lesiovo (:3; cribed for the purpose of clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-section
,_ I022) (vib), (1) of section 32 ' [ S. 10(2)(vi) ]- have been furnished by the
Prov.para(a)] assessee in respect of the ship or machinery or plant. [New] H (2) For the purposes of section 32 [10(2)(vi), (via) and
[see rule 8] (V")]-- = (i) if the buildings, machinery,- plant or furniture have
been used by the assessee for the purposes of his
business, profession or vocation for more than a
month, the deduction under section 32(1) , clhuses (i)_ (ii) and (iii), [10(2) (vi), (via)] shall be deter-
mined proportionately with reference to the5com-
plete months of user thereof by the assessee 2

Provided, however, that if the total period of user is less
than one month, it shall be deemed to be one-com-
plete month for computing the deduction propor-
tionately. Explanat'i0n.----In the case of a seasonal factory worked
by the assessee during all the working seasons of the pre-
vious year, the buildings, machinery, plant or furniture shall
be deemed to have been used by the assessee throughout the
period he was the owner thereof during the previous year. [s. Io(2)(via), (ii) the deduction provided for by section 32(1) , clause

part] (iii) .......... ..[10(2)(via)] shall be allowed 'only in
respect of a previous year relevant for the assess-
ment year 1958-1959; '

[s. 10(2) (vi) (iii) the aggregate of all deductions in respect of depre- proviso(c)] ciation made under section 32(1) , [10(2) (vi), (via)
H of 1922 and (vii)] or under the Indian Income-taxi Act .
1922, or under any Act repealed by that Act or
, under the Indian Income-tax Act . 1886, shall, in
2 of 1886 no case, exceed the original cost to the asse$ee of
the buildings, machinery, plant or furniture, as
the case may be; _[s.xo(4B). (iv) nothing in section 32(1)(i) or (ii) [1o(2)(vi)] or
mscrtedbv 32(1)(111) [ section 10(2)(v1a) ] shall be deemed to

the Finance

Am X958] authorise the allowance for any previous y' at of

any sum in respect of any building, mac pinery,
plant or furniture sold, discarded, demolished or
destroyed, in that year; (3 )' (a) The deduction referred to in section 33 [ S. 10(2) [§- I0(2)(Vib) (vib), main para.] shall not be allowed unless-
l-rov. (b),

an amount eqagi'{e.'ﬁg;;¢;;itg;;tiy;;';s;;£'.;;s;;t.";;i'the d ve1op-
ment rebate to be a ually a lowed is debited to th proﬁt
and loss account of t e rele previous year and c dited

I 125 Clauses 34-35

to a reserve account to be utilised by the assessee during a
period of ten years next following for the purposes of the
business of the undertaking, except- (i) for distribution by way of dividends or proﬁts; or (ii) for remittance outside India as proﬁts or for the
creation of any asset outside India. E:cception.--The provisions of clause (a) shall not ap- [s- I0(2)(Vib)
ply where the assessee is a company, being a licensee with-5:31;-ullglzilfl
in the meaning of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 , 54 "I943
where the ship has been acquired or the machinery or 8plant ..
has been installed before the 1st day of January, 195 . (b) ....... .. If any ....... .. ship, machinery or plant is sold [an xo(2)(vib)

or otherwise transferred by the assessee to any person other lP"°"-- than the Government" at any time before the expiry of ten as' mm]
years from the end of the previous year in which it was ac- quired or installed, any allowance made under section 33 ... .... ..[s. 10(2) (vib), main para] in respect of that shi ,
machinery or plant shall be deemed to have been wrong y

made for the purposes of this Act. (1) In respect of expenditure on scientiﬁc research, the Se°ti°n 35

following deductions shall be allowed-- §§§3;§;;;-;_.° (i) any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital ""°"°h __
expenditure) laid out or expended on scientiﬁc re- [5- '°('~')("")]
search related to the business; (ii) any sum paid to a scientiﬁc rtsearch association [s. 1o(2)(xiii)
which has as its objects'the undertaking of scienti- Pm]
ﬁc research related to the class of business carried
on, and which is approved for the purposes of this
clause by the prescribed authority; (iii) any sum paid to a university, college or other in- [s. 1o(2)(xiii)

stitution to be used for scientiﬁc research, research Part] '

in social science or statistical research related to

the class of business carried on, bein a ............. ..
university, college or institution which is for the

time being approved for the purposes of this clause

by the prescribed authority; (iv) in respect of any expenditure of 'a capital nature on Er.s1o(}2)(xiv) '
scientiﬁc research related to the' business carried on t,p a.
by the assessee, such deduction as may be admis- ea"'° Pm]
sible under the provisions of subsection (2). (2) For the purposes of clause (iv) of sub-section (1),- (i) one--fifth of the capital expenditure incurred in any 3. 1o(2)(xiv)
previous year shall be deducted for that previous' '5tP"a: [8- I0(2)(XiV), (iv) where a deduction is allowed for any previous year

'*'"d P"°"'(d)] under this section in respect of expenditure repre-
sented wholly or partly by an asset, no deduction
shall be allowed under section 32(1) clauses (i) (ii)
and (iv) [10(2)(Vi) or (vii) i.e., section authorising
depreciation allowance] for the same previous year
in respect of that asset; [s- I0(2)(3=iv), (V) where the asset is used in the business after it
2nd P'°'."5° ceases to be used for scientiﬁc research related to
_ I(,:)r't]"a'1'°' that business, depreciation shall be admissible
under section 32(1) , clauses (i) (ii) and (iv), j;10(2) (vi) and (vii) i.e., section authorising depreqiation

allowance]. l ~
[s. xo(2)(3:iv), (3) If any question arises under this section as to
'-'"d P'°""'° whether, and if so, to what extent, any activity constitutes (g)] or constituted or any asset is or was being used for scientiﬁc

research, the Central Board of Revenue shall refer the
question to the prescribed authority, whose decision shall be
ﬁnal. i '

[s.1o(2)(g:iv), (4) Theiprovisions of sub-section (2) of secti 32

end Pr0V1s° [Section re : depreci lion] s _'l1 apply in relation to edu"-
U) 93"] ' tions allowable under? clause iv) of sub-section (1) as; they 127 Clauses 35-36

apply in relation to deductions allowable in respect of dep-
reciation. '

The deductions provided for in the following clauses section 36 shall also be allowed in respect of the matters dealt with other deduo
therein, in computing the income referred to in section 28 tions.
[mam section for income from business]----- Insurance of

(1) the amount of any premium paid in respect of in-- stocks or
surance against risk of damage or destruction of ............. .. st0r¢s- _
stocks or stores used for the purposes of the business, pro- [5' '°(')("')'

;. . . r k
fession or vocation ............. .., . pa" °"t°° - etc.]

(2) any sum paid to an employee as bonus or commis- Bonus or co.-
sion for services rendered, where such sum would not have mmission to
been payable to him as proﬁts or dividend if it had not been ¢mP1°Y°°5-
paid as bonus or commission, in either of the following [S- _I°(2)(x),

cases, namely-- mam P"'"'] (i) ................ ..where the amount of the bonus or com- [s. 1o(2)(x),
mission is .......... .. reasonable .......... .. with refer- Proviso]
ence to- (a) the pay of the employee and the conditions of his

service; (b) the proﬁts of the business, profession or vocation
for the previous year in question, and (c) the general practice in .... .., similar businesses,
professions or vocations; or (ii) where such payment is in pursuance of the award [Now]
of an industrial or other tribunal constituted under
any law for the settlement of industrial disputes; (3) ...... ....... .. the amount of the interest paid in res- '"'°'°" in section 293 [New Section in chapter on Recognised Pro-- [New]
vident Funds re : allowing deduction for employer's contri- bution] or section 310 [58R, main para, part re 2 deduction

for employer's contribution] as the case may be: nal cost to the assessee of the animals and the amount, if
any, realised in respect of the carcasses or animals;
Bad deb'-S-i) (6) ....... .. debts, or parts thereof, that are established to
 ' have become bad debts in the previous year, provided- (i) such debts or parts of debts- (a) have been taken into account in computing the
income of the assessee of that previous year or of
an earlier previous year, or (b) represent money lent in the ordinary course of
the business of banking or money-lending which
is carried on by the assessee; and

[Last W0I;ds of (ii) such debts or partsof debts have been written 011' as
5~"?(2)("2' irrecoverable in the accounts of the assessee for
"W" P" 1 that previous year : . sion is shared between them, and on proof to the satisfac- tion of the Income-tax Officer of the facts contained in such
declaration such agent and each such party shall be charge-
able only on the share to which such agent or party is en-
titled unde-r the agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sections Sccttion 4°
30 to 39, [10(2)], the following amounts shall not be de- g3°":¥§l"°'
ducted in computing the income chargeable under the ,"°' °'
head "Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or vocation" tion 173 [43]; (ii) .......... ..any sum paid on account of any cess, rate or 5- 210(4) 5'8
tax levied on the proﬁts or gains of any business, P"?"'
profession or vocation or assessed at a proportion
of or otherwise on the basis of, any such proﬁts
or gains; (iii) any .......... .. payment which is chargeable under [5, 10(4) (a)]
the head "Salaries", if it is payable without India
and if the tax has n , been 'd thereon on assess-
ment nor deducted erefro der section 201 .
[s.18] nor recovered, nder ( on 209 [s.8(7)]; Clause: 40-41

[s- 10(4) (CH (iv) any; ......... .. payment to a provident or other fund
established for the beneﬁt of employees of the
assessee, unless the assessee has made effective ar-
rangements to secure that tax shall be deducted at
source from any payments made from the fund
which are chargeable to tax under the head "Sala-
ries"; [S-1°(4)(b)-] (b) in the case of any ﬁrm, any ............. ..payment of

interest, salary, commission or remuneration, made

by the ﬁrm to any partner of the ﬁrm; .j..,o(,,A)(a),; (c) in the case of any company- (i) any .......... .. expenditure which results directly or
indirectly in the provision of any remuneration or
beneﬁt or amenity to a director or a person who
has a substantial interest in the company within
the meaning of section 2 clause (20), Explanation
[s. 2(6C) (iii)]; (ii) any expenditure or allowance in respect of any
[5"°(4A)(b)] assets of the company used by any person refer-
red to in sub-clause (i) either wholly or partly for
his own_ purposes or beneﬁt,

if in the opinion of the Income-tax Officer any such
expenditure or allowance as is mentioned in sub-
clauses (i) and (ii) is excessive or unreasonable
having regard to the legitimate business needs of
the company and the beneﬁt derived by or accru-
ing to it therefrom. a

E,§;"f'] (M) Explanation: The provisions of this clause .......... ..
P' [ Section 10(4A) ] shall apply notwithstanding that any
amount disallowed under this clause is included in the

total income of any person referred to in sub-clause (i). 1[i'I'le':F3"fP'c'l1;':f (d) in the case of a banking company, the amounts

,6, (3) & (b)] which have been allowed as a deduction in com-
puting its income chargeable to income-taac under
the head "Interest on securities" under the provi-
sions of section 20(1) [8 Expln(1) (b)]

5°C?" 41 --(1) Where for the purposes of computing income un-
gcrgbfz der the head "Proﬁts and gains business, profession or
Amount, M- vocation an allowance or deduction has been made in the
civcd in res- assessment for any year in res ect of any loss, expenditure
Pcct of 1053 or trading liability incurred y 'the assessee and, subse-
°'°' quently during any previous. year, the assessee has re-
3- '°('*'A)]- ceived, whether in cash or in any other manner whatso-
ever, any amount in respect of such loss or expenditure
or has obtained some beneﬁt in respect of such trading
liability by way of remission or cessation thereof, the
amount received by him or the value of the. beneﬁt ac-
cruing to him shall be chargeable to income-tar asg the»
income of the business.' profession or vacation of that ;pre--
ziious year. = * 131 Clause 41

(2) ....... .. Where any building, machinery or plant Proﬁts on sale
which is owned by the assessee and which was or has °fd$7P'°¢i3b1¢
been used for the purposes of business, profession or voca- 353°" _,
ticm, is sold, discarded, demolished or destroyed in the [5-d1°(*)(".")=
previous year, and the moneys received in respect of suc :2", ggﬂvﬁi'
building, machinery or plant, as the case may be, together p,o,,,so_ pm
with the amount of scrap value, if any, exceed the written simpliﬁed]
down value, so much of the excess as does not exceed the
diﬁerence between the original cost and the written down
value .......... ..shall be chargeable to income-tax as income
of the business, profession or vocation of the previous year
in which the moneys are received. Explanation 1--For the purposes of this sub-section, [5' '°(')(".")

. , . . . 4th proviso
the expression 'moneys received" in respect of any build- Pam]
ing, machinery or plant has the same meaning as in sec-
tioln]32(1) (iv) [sec. re : depreciation-clause for loss on
sa e

Explanation 2.--The provisions of this sub-section shall [s- I0(2)(Vi_i)»
apply notwithstanding that the business, profession, or 120- §v':ﬁds"."§,':f,:'_'
cation for the purposes of which the building, machinery or the, ____ __
plant was being used is no longer in existence at the time thc1eof"]
when the building, machinery or plant is sold, discarded,

demolished or destroyed. Explanation 3.--For the purposes of this sub-section, [s. x0(2)(vii)
the original cost of a building, the written down value of sthiproviw-l
'which is determined in accordance with section 42 clause
(7) (b), proviso [ Section 10(5) (b) , 1st proviso] shall be
deemed to be the written down value so determined as
at the date of its being brought into use for the purposes
of the business, profession or vocation i

(3) Where an asset representing expenditure of a capi- Proﬁts onsalc

tal nature on scientific research within the meaning of sec- 0' Scicntiﬁc
tion 35(1) (iv) read with section 42 clause.(5) [ Section 10 3 *'
(2) _(xiv)] is sold whether during the continuance of the ' X.)
business or after the cessation thereof without having been £",'u'1°(";2,,Evi',','°
used for other purposes and the proceeds of the sale toge- (c)_]'
ther with the total amount of: the deductions made under '
Section 35(2) (i) [s. 10(2) (xiv) ﬁrst para, latter part] ex- -ceed the amount of the capital expenditure, the excess or
the amount of the deductions so made, whichever is the
less. shall be chargeable to income-ta,7c as income of the
business, profession or vocation of the previous year in
which the sale took place. (4) Where a deduction has been allowed in respect of [s.xo_(2) (xi).
«a bad debt or part of debt under the provisions of section F?'°""'°f °"'
'36 clause (6) [s. 10(2) (xi) ﬁrst para] then if the amount"°"'=*' -1
ultimately recovered on any such debt or part is greater
than the difference between the debt or part of debt and
the amount so allowed, the excess shhlal be chargeable to
income-tax as income of the business'; rvofession or voca-
tion of the previous year in which it'; i? recovered. Clause 42

S°°"°" t$'~'- In sections 28 to 41 [all sections incorporating any part
""°"p'°m'°" of section 10 ]and in this section, unless the context'other-
wise requires,- Asctual cost (1) ....... .."actual cost" means the actual cost of the as-
gipln sets to the assessee reduced by that portion of the cost
end, "Came, thereof, if any, as has been met directly or indirectly by

dart.] Government or by any public or local authority ....... .. 5- 10(2) (xiy)' Explanation 1.--Where an asset is used in the business
ad P'l°'t'::° after it ceases to be used for scientiﬁc research related to
par" 3 ' that business, and a deduction has to be made under. sec-
tion 32(1), clause (1) (11) or (iv) [ Section 10(2) (V1) or
(v11)] in respect of that asset, the actual cost of the asset
to the assessee shall be the actual cost to the assessee as
reduced by the amount of any deduction allowed .under section 35(1) (iv) [10(2) (xiv)] or under any corresponding
11 or 1922. provision of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 . '

[S- 10(5) (<=)-] Explanation 2.--Where an asset is acquired by the as-
sessee by way of gift or inheritance, the actual cost of the
asset to the assessee shall be the written down value there-'
of as in the case of the previous owner for the previous
year in which the asset is so acquired or the marketgvalue
thereof on the date of such acquisition, whichever is the
less. '

E: Explanation 3.-- .......... ..Where, before the date §of ac-
P ' quisition by the assessee, the assets were at any time used
by any other person for the urposes of his business, pro- fession or vocation and the ncome-tax Oﬂicer is satisﬁed

that the main purpose of the transfer of such assets, direct- ly or indirectly to the assessee,' was the reduction ofia lia- bility to income-tax (by claiming depreciation with lrefer- ence to an enhanced cost), the actual cost to the assessee

shall be such an amount as the Income-tax Ofﬁceri may,

with the previous approval of the Inspectin 'stant
Commissioner, determine having regard to al the c' cum- stances of the case. r L

[S- I0(5),(a), Explanation 4---- .... .. Where .... .. assets which had once

""1 P'°"'5°] belonged to the assessee and had been used by him for
the purposes of his business, profession or vocation and
thereafter ceased to be his pro rty by reason of transfer'
or otherwise, are re-acquired him, the actual c¢st to
the assessee shall be the actual cost to him when h first
acquired the assets less all depreciation actually ﬂowed

11 of 1922- to him under this Act or under the Indian Income- Act,
1922, or under any Act repealed by that Act or under exe- 2 of 1886- cutive orders issued when the Indian Income-tax Act, 1886,
was in force. [s.m_B(I),2nd Explanation 5.----When any capital asset is transferred
P'°'"5° lam?" by a company to its subsidiary company, then, if the condi-
hilf' pm] tions of section 47 (iii) [sectio;1,12B(1), 2nd proviso, earlier
half] are satisﬁed, t actualicbst . . . . . . . .. of the transfer-
red capital asset to ﬁe subsidiary company shall be taken 133 Clause 42

to be the same as it would have been if the parent com-
pany had continued to hold the capital. asset for the pur-
poses of its business. ' aid'

(2) "paid" means actually paid or incurred according [s.p 10(5)
to the method of accounting upon' the basis of which the First Para.
proﬁts or gains are computed under the head "Profits and P""']
gains of business, profession or vocation"; (3) "plant" includes ships, vehicles, books, scientiﬁc [s_ ]am,o(5)
apparatus and surgical equipment purchased for the pur- First para.
poses of the business, profession or vocation; part.] '

(4) "received" means received according to the method "Received"
of accounting upon the basis of which the proﬁts or gains [Ndw.]
are computed under the head "Proﬁts and gains of business,
profession or vocation"; (5) (i) "scientiﬁc research" means any activities in the "Scientiﬁc
ﬁelds of natural or applied science for the extension of '§5°'"° .
knowledge; _ [ "OM ('M

Expln. (i).] (ii) references to expenditure incurred on scientiﬁc re- [S.'xo(2)_(3<iv)
search .......... ..include all expenditure incurred for the pro- E"P1"- ("H

secution of, or the provision of facilities for the prosecu-
tion of, scientiﬁc research, but do not include any expen-
diture incurred in the acquisition of rights in, or arising
out of, scientific research; (iii) references to scientiﬁc research related to a busi- E'-"f(*)(.'.'.i")
ness or class of business include-- xp"' 0"" litate an extension of that business or, as the case
may be, all businesses -of that class; (b) any scientiﬁc research of a medical nature which
has a special relation to the welfare of Workers «
employed in that business or, as the case may be,
all businesses of that class; (6) .......... .."speculative transaction" -means a transac- [ S. 24(x) tion in which a contract' for purchase and sale of any EXP1n- (2)-1
commodity, including stocks and shares, is periodically or 1 '
ultimately settled otherwise than by the actual delivery
or transfer of the commodity or scrips: dise entered into by a person in the course of his
manufacturing or merchanting business to guard

& against loss through future price ﬂuctuations in
respect of his contr cts for actual delivery of
goods manufactured y himgdr merchandise sold
by him; or 134 Clause 42 (b) a contract in respect of stocks and shares entered
1nto_ by a dealer or investor therein to guard
against loss in his holdings of stocks and shares
through price fluctuations; or '

(C) a contract entered into by a member of a forward
market or a stock exchange in the course of any
transaction in the nature of jobbing or arbitrage
to guard against loss which may arise in the ordi-
nary course of his business as such member; shall not be deemed to be a speculative transaction; pany, and (b) the subsidiary company is an Indian company
and is a resident. ' Section 48 . Mode of com- putation and
deductions. [s. _x2B(2),
opening
lines.]

[s. 12B(2) (i)]

[s. 12B(2) (ii)
pa:-L] Section 49 . Statutory cost
with referen- ce to modes
of acquisition

[New] Section 50 . Determina- tion of statuo
tory cost. [s. 12 B(2) (ii), part.]

x2B(2),
Prov. [ . 3si'd

part.] 136 Clauses 48-50

The income chargeable under the head "Capital gains" ment or transfer; (ii) the statutory cost of the capital asset, as determin-
ed in accordance with the provisions hereinafter
contained .......... .. Where the capital asset became the property of f the
assessee by any of the following modes, the statutorycost
of the asset shall be determined. in accordance with ; the
provisions of sections 50 and 51 [next two sections follow-
ing, dealing with determination of statutory cost]- (i) under a purchase, exchange, relinquishment or other
transfer; (ii) on any 'distribution of capital assets on the total or
partial partition of a Hindu undivided family; (iii) under a gift or will; (iv) (a) by succession, inheritance or devolution; or (b) on any distribution of capital asset on the dissolu-
tion of a firm or other association of persons; or (c) on any distribution of capital assets on the liquida-
tion of a company; or (d) under a transfer on revocable or irrevocable trust.
The statutory cost of an asset shall be determined as

follows- (1) Where the cavital asset became the property of
the assessee by any of the modes specified' in section 49(1) [clause (i) of section for statdtory
cost with reference to modes of acquisition], the
statutory cost of the asset shall be---- (a) the cost of acquisition of the hsset to the ses-
see ....... .., as increased by the cost of any; im-
provements made thereto, incurred and bornk by
the assessee; or ' (b) where the capital asset became the proper? of
the assessee .......... .. before the 1st day of fann-
ary, 1954, then, at the option of the assessee, the
fair market value of the asset on the 1st day of
January, 1954, as increased by the cost of any
improvements made thereto on or after the 1st
day of January, 1954;", incurred and borne by, the
assessee. ' i 137 Clause 50

(2) Where the capital asset became the property of[s-_ 1213(3),
the assessee by the mode speciﬁed in section 49 (ii) [clause '"31? Pm!» (ii) of section re: statutory cost with reference to modes 52:3' half'
of acquisition], the statutory cost of the asset shall be de- '
termined as follows- (i) where the capital asset became the property of the [s. 1213 (3),
assessee before the 1st day of April, 1956, the sta- Prov. (i),
tutory cost of the asset shall be the highest of the Pa"-3
following-- (a) the cost of acquisition of the asset to the previ- [s. 123(3).
ous owner thereof,.as increased by the cost of mail} para,
any improvements made thereto after its ' acqui- °""{'°' ha": sition by the assessee, incurred and borne by
the assessee; or (c) where the capital asset became the property of[s. In B (2),
the previous owner .... ..before the 1st day of 3rd Prov-
January, 1954, the fair market value of the as- Pm]
set on the 1st day of January, 1954, as increased
by the cost of any improvements made thereto
on or after the 1st day of January, 1954, by the
previous owner or the assessee, incurred and
borne by the previous owner or the assessee, as
the case may be; (ii) where the capital asset became the property of[S- 113 __(3)
the assessee on or after the 1st day of April, 1956, pmvis-° ("H
.......... ..the statutory cost of the asset shall be the
fair market value of the asset on the date of the
partition. as increased by the cost of any improve-
ments made thereto on or after the date of the par-
tition, incurred and borne by the assessee. (3) Where the capital asset became the property of
the assessee by any of the modes speciﬁed in section 49 (iii) [clause (iii) of section regarding statutory cost with
reference to mode of acquisition], the statutory cost of the
asset shall be determined as follows :-- [S m B ( ) - 2 (i) where the capital asset became the propert of sP""2'§
the assessee before the 1st day of April, 19%, its (3),' ;,,a;,,
statutory cost shall be determined in accordance para, earlier
with the provisions of clause (i) of sub-section (2); B98; (ii) where the capital ass t beca e: the property of PM/i0 (1').
the assessee on or aft the 1s iay of April 1956, Pm]
the statutory cost of the. ets pl be-- Clauses 50-51
[,_ ,2}; (3), (a) the cost of acquisition of the asset to the previ-
main para, ous owner thereof, as increased by the cost of
earlier half: any improvements made thereto after its acqui-
part] sition by the previous owner or the assessee, in- curred and borne by the previous owner or the
assessee, as the case may be; or

[s. 12B (2), (b) where the asset became the property of the 1072-
3rd prov. vious owner before the 1st day of January, 1954,
P""-] then, at the option of the assessee, the fair mar- ket value of the asset on the 1st day of January,
1954, as increased by the cost of any improve-
ments made thereto on or after the 1st day of
January, 1954, by the previous owner or the as-
sessee, incurred and borne by the previous own-
er or the assessee, as the case may be. (4) Where the capital asset became the property of
the assessee, whether before or after the 1st day of Janu-
ary, 1954, by any of the modes speciﬁed in section 49 (iv)
[clause (iv) of section re : statutory cost and mode of ac-
quisition], the statutory cost of the capital asset shall be- [S_ ,2 B (3), (a) the cost of acquisition of theasset to the previous
main para. owner thereof, as increased by the cost of any im-
;=;1t1]6r half» provements made thereto after its acquisition by

the previous owner or the assessee, incurred and
borne by the previous owner or the assessee, as
the case may be; or

[5, ,2 B (2), (b) where the asset became the property of the previ- ceding section regarding com utation of statutory 5- ":'1B (:1!
cost] the fair market value 0 the asset on the 1st P"""'°' pa 1
day of January, 1954, is to be taken into account
at the option of the assessee, then, the statutory
cost of the asset shall, at the option of the assessee,
be the fair market value of the asset on the said
date, as reduced by the amount of depreciation, if
any, allowed to the assessee after the said date,
and as adjusted. .......... ..Where any capital asset was on any previous Section 52 occasion the subject of negotiations for its sale, exchange, 0P"°" tion obtained by the assessee, and (b) as diminished by the value of any consideration,

in addition to the capital asset, given by the asses-
see. '

Where the Income-tax Oﬁicer is satisﬁed that the con-- Section 54 .
sideration recited in any deed of sale, exchange, relin- C_1°ns=d°7a'
quishment or transfer of a capital asset is low and that it "°" f°' 531°'

was so recited with the object of avoidance or reduction §'c°{ﬂmine§°;
of the liability of the assessee under section 45 [section 's of

re: chargeability], the full value of the consideration I'e-un.erstate-
ferred to in section 48 [section re: computation of capital m°3"- -
gains] shall, with the prior approval of the Inspecting As- [s-12 B (2)-
sistant Commissioner ................. .., be taken to be the fair "'P'°"-1
market value of the capital asset on the date on which the

sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer took place. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 45 [S. %°°'!:"'l gig?
12B(1) main para], where a capital gain arises from the ,,,:,*:,;[ gymm
sale, exchange or transfer of one or more capital assets," tion for which the sale, exchange, or transfer is made does
not exceed the sum of twenty-ﬁve thousand rupees, the
capital gain shall not .......... .. be included in the total in-
come of the assessee: In sections 50 and 51 [sections re : tions or alterations it) the capital asset, but does

I

determination of 3 141 Clauses 57----59

not include any_ expenditure which is deductible
in computing the income chargeable under the
head "Interest on securities", "Income from house
property", "Profits and gains of business, profes-
sion or vocation" or "Income from other sources" ,*
and "improvements" shall be construed according-
ly. F--Income from other sources Section 58

(1) .......... .. Income .... .. of every kind .......... ..shall1"¢°m€ "Om
be chargeable to income-tax under the head "Income from °'h"','°"'°°" lity of the pnovisions of sub-section (1), the following in-
come shall be chargeable to income-tax under the head "In-
come from other sources", namely :-- tion." (1) For the purposes -of inclusion in the total income 5" °" 59
of an assessee ....... ..any dividend paid by a company whose.G _ ins "P
total income is chargeable to ' income-ital: under this Act °fd' 'd°"d"
shall be the gross amount of the dividend as determined [5-. 5 (2)'
under sub-section (2). - 3:', Pan'

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub ection (3), the gross [s.1 (2),
amount of the dividend shall be the a 'nt of"the net divi~ mai Pm: Increase = 142 Clauses 59-60 (ii) 'D' stands for the amount of the net dividend; and (iii) 'R' stands for the average rate of income-tax ap-
plicable to the company for the ﬁnancial year in
which the dividend is paid, credited or distributed
or deemed to have been paid, credited or distri-
buted. The rate is to be expressed as a percentage;
for example, where the rate is 25 naya paise 'per
rupee, 'R' stands for the ﬁgure 25. (3) .......... ..When the fund out of which the dividend
[S-16(2) has been paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have
P'°""°-3 been paid, credited or distributed includes- (i) any proﬁts and gains of the company not included
in its total income, or (ii) any income of the company on which income-tax
was not payable, or (iii) any amount attributable to any allowance made in
computing the proﬁts and gains of the company,
the increase to be made under sub-section (2) shall
be calculated only upon such proportion of the net
dividend as the said fund after deduction of the
inclusions enumerated above bears to the whole of
that fund. Section 60 The income chargeable under the head "Income from
Dcductions, other sources" shall be computed after making the follow-
ing deductions, namely:------ _ (i) .......... ..in the case of..,' ....... ..dividends, any reason- [5-. 12 (2): able sum paid by way of commission or remunera- corporated in draft section for deductions in income
from business]. and subject to the provisions of sections 34 and 38 [ section 10 , provisions incorpo-
rated in draft section regarding conditions for de-
preciation and development rebate and partial

[s._ 12 (2), user]; $313] Pam (iii) any other expenditure (not being in the nature of

capital expenditure) laid out or expended wholly
and exclusively for the purpose of making or earn- ing such income ...... ....... .. Clauses 61-62

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 61 section 60 [Section regarding deductions for income from Amounts not
other sources], the following amounts shall not be deduc- deductible.
tible in computing the income chargeable under the head
"Income from other sources", name1y:---- (a) in the case of any assessee-- [S- 1,2 (2),
prov1s0.] (i) any personal expenses of the assessee; (ii) any interest chargeable under this Act which is
payable outside India (not being interest on a
loan issued for public subscription before the
1st day of April, 1938), ................ ..on which tax
has not been paid or deducted under section 202 or 204 [Sections regarding deductions of tax at
source]. and in respect of which there is no per-
'son in India who may be treated as an agent
under section 173 [ section 43 ]; (iii) any payment which is chargeable under the head
"Salaries", if it is payable without India, unless
tax has been paid thereon on assessment or de-
ducted therefrom under section 201 [18(2)]
or recovered under section 209 [18(7)]; (b) in the case of a company, any expenditure or allow-- [S- I2 (5)
ance of the nature referred to in section 40 , clause Pi'; S '°"*" garding chargeability] apply are sold, discarded, demolished
or destroyed, the provisiqns of section 41(2) [ Section 10(2) (vii), 2nd and 4th provisos, so far as they deal with proﬁts]

shall apply, so far as may be, in computing the income of

an assessee under section 58 [Section regarding chargeability

of income from other sources] as they apply in computing

the income of an assessee under the head "Profits and gains ~
of business, profession or vocation". Clauses 63-67
CHAPTER V

INCOME OF OTHER PERSONS. INCLUDED IN
ASSESSEE'S TOTAL INCOME Section 63 All income arising to any person by virtue of a transfer
Transfer of ............. ..whether revocable or not and whether eﬁected
'['§°°"l'g- (1) before or after the commencement of this Act, shall, where

wmain para, there is no transfer of the assets from which the income
came, ham] arises, be chargeable to income-tax as the income of the
S 6 transferor .......... ..and shall be included in his total income.
'ection

Revocable 4 All income arising to any person by virtue of a revo-
transfer or cable transfer of assets shall be chargeable to income-tax
assets. as the income of the transferor and shall be included in his

[S- F5 (U (C): total income. mam para,

latter half.]

S¢°'i°" 55 (1) The provisions of section 64 [ S. 16(1)(c) , main para,

Trrevocable latter half] shall not apply to any income-
transfers. [3- I5 (I)_ (C), (a) arising to any person by virtue of a transfer which
 is not revocable for a period exceeding six years

or during the lifetime of the transferee, or, in the
case of a transfer by way of trust, during the life-
t'ime of the beneﬁciary, and (b) from which income the transferor derives no direct
or indirect beneﬁt. ,lS- 16(1) (C) (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section
13a'ftler]1:;',',1']'S° (1), all income arising to any person by virtue of a transfer
' shall be chargeable to income-tax as the income 09' the
transferor as and when the power to revoke the transfer

arises, and shall then be included in histotal income. s°°"'?'f 66 For the purposes of sections 63 , 64 and (55 [ section 16 D°ﬁ"'"°"3- (1)(c), main para and 3rd proviso] and of this sect1on,--~

E1' (a) ......... ..a transfer shall be deemed to be revocable (i) it contains any provision for the retransfer direct-
ly or indirectly of the income or assets to the
.......... ..transferrn:, or 1 (ii) it, in any way, gives the transferor a right to
reassume power directly or indirectly ovet the
S 6 income or assets; §
Eta' (12) "transfer" includes any settlement, trust, covenant,
parI.] agreement or arrangement. ' Section 67 In computing the total income of any individual, being

Husband, a male, there shall be included all such income as arises

Wifc and directly or indirectly- mmor chi - ten. (i) to his wife from the membership of the wife in a
[S- *5 (3)-1 ﬁrm in which such individual is a partner; (ii) to a minor child of such individual from the a is-
sion of the minor to.' the beneﬁts of partne hip
in a ﬁrm in which sucll individual is a partner, 9 145 Clauses 67-69 (iii) to his wife from assets transﬁerred directly or in-
directly to the wife by such individual otherwise
than for adequate consideration or in connection
with an agreement to live apart .......... .. (iv) to a minor child, not being a married daughter, of

, such individual from assets transferred directly or

indirectly to the minor child by such individual
otherwise than for adequate consideration; or (v) .......... ..to any person or association of persons .... ..
.... ..from assets transferred-otherwise than for ade-
quate consideration to the person or association by
such individual for the beneﬁt of his wife, or a
minor child (not being a married daughter), or both. CHAPTER VI

AGGREGATION OF INCOME AND $ET--OFF OR CARRY
FORWARD OF LOSS

Aggregation of income

In computing the total income of an assessee, there Section 68 shall be included all income on which no income-tax isTo;a1ineome
payable under the provisions of sections 81 to 87 [Sections [3 16 (I) (3)
relating to income on which no income-tax is payable]. °3'?'°' P3"-1

(1) In computing the total income of an assessee who Sécttionﬁs '
is a partner of a ﬁrm, .......... ..whether* the net result of the Method or
computation of total income of the ﬁrm is a proﬁt or a loss, °°IPP"tins _
his share (whether a net proﬁt or a net loss) shall be :hm,P"i'x'1"':{1: the firm, and the balance ascertained and appor-
tioned among the paiftners; ' (b) where the amount apportioned_ to the partner under
clause (a) is a proﬁt, any salaryl, interest, commission
or other remuneration paid to the partner by the
ﬁrm in respect of thegprevious year shall be added
to that' amount, and the result shall be treated as
the partner's share in the income of the ﬁrm; (c) where the amount apportioned to the partner under
clause (a) is a loss, any salary, interest, commission
or other remuneration paid tb the partner by the
ﬁrm in respect of the previous year shall be ad--
justed against that amount, and the result shall be
tireated as the partnefs sharein the income of the

rm. 2 3 146 Clauses 69-_73

[New] (2) A partner's share in the income of the ﬁrm, as

. computed under sub-section (1), shall, for the purposes of
assessment, be apportioned under the various heads of in-
come in the proportion which the income of the ﬁrm under
each head bears to the total income of the ﬁrm. [New] (3) Any interest paid by a partner on capital borrowed
for the purposes of investment as his capital in the ﬁrm
shall, in computing his income chargeable under the head
"Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or vocation" in
respect of his share in the income of the ﬁrm, be deducted
from the share, but no other deduction shall be allowed in
respect of the said share. [S- 16(1) (b) (4) If a part'ner's share in the income of the ﬁrm, as

P'°'"5°-1 computed under this section, is a loss, such loss may be
set off, or carried forward and set oﬁ, in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter. [NEW] Explanation.--In this section, "paid" has the same mean-
ing as is assigned to it in section 42 , clause (2) [s. 10(5)].
Se°"°" 7°. Where any sum is found credited in the books of an
Cash °'°d"3- assessee maintained for any previous year, and the assessee
[New] offers no explanation about the nature and source thereof

or the explanation offered by him is not satisfactory, the
sum so credited shall be deemed to be the income of the
assessee and shall be chargeable to income-tax as the in-
come of that previous year. S°°'i°" 7} Where in the ﬁnancial year immediately preceding the
U'1€"P'a'"°d assessment year the assessee has made investments which
I""°5'"'°"'s' are not recorded in the books of account maintained by him
[NW] for any source of income, and the assessee offers no expla-
nation about the nature and ;ource of the investments or
the explanation offered by him is not accepted by the In-
come-tax Oﬁicer, the value of the investments shall be deem-
ed to be income of the assessee of such ﬁnancial year. Section 72 Set oﬂ', or carry forward and set off

Set-off ofloss Save as otherwise provided in this Act, where the net
from one bu- result for any assessment year in respect of any business,
;'"°53 '° 111°" profession or vocation carri d on by the assessee, computed
mm a"°' Cr' under the head "Proﬁts and gains of business, profession or

[NW] vocation", is a loss, the assessee shall be entitled to have
the amount of such loss set of against the proﬁts and
gains assessable for that assessment year from any other
business, profession or vocation under .the said head of in-
come. '

. Section 73 Scmqonoss (1) Where in respect of any assessment year the net
from one head' result of the computation under any of the heads of income
to another. mentioned in section 14 [6] other than "Capital gains" is
[3, ,4 M, a loss to the assessee, the assessee shall, subject to the other
main para.] provisions of this Chapter, be entitled to have the amount 147 Clauses 73-74

of such loss set off against his income assessable for that
assessment year under any other head ................ .. except
"Capital gains". (2) Where for any assessment year the net result of Carry for-
the computation under the head "Profits and gains of busi- ;"§"}§"d. 5°'
ness, profession or vocation" is a loss 110 the assessee, not 105;; "me"
being a loss sustained in a speculation business, and such
loss has not been wholly set off in accordance with the pro-
visions of sub-section (1), so .much of the loss as is not so pm]
set off or the whole loss where the assessee had no income '
under any other head, shall, subject to the other provisions
of this Chapter, be carried forward to the following assess-
ment year, and .......................... .. (i) .......... ..it shall be set off against the proﬁts and
gains, if any, of any business, profession or voca-
tion carried on by him and assessable for that assess-
ment year, provided that the business, profession or
vocation for which the loss was originally computed
continued to be carried on by him in the previous
year relevant for that assessment year; and (ii) if the loss ........ .._..cannot be wholly so set off, the

amount of loss not so set oﬁ shall be carried forward
to the following assessment year and so on. (3) Where any allowance or part thereof is under sub- 24b (9)»
section (2) of section 32 [section regarding depreciation] or ,n3";f Bop
sub-section (4) of section 35 [Section regarding scientiﬁc (xiv) 2nd
research expenditure] to be carried forward, effect shall Pl'0V.(f)part.]

ﬁrst be given to the provisions of sub-section (2). (4) ....... ..No loss shall be ....... ..carried forward under [s-,'-'4 (2)
this section for more than eight assessment years i:mme- mam Pa" against proﬁts and gains, if any, of another speculation busi- ness.
ness. [s. 2 (1), 1st

. prov. (2) Where for any assessment year any loss computed [5, 34 (2),
in respect of a speculation business has not been wholly set may Para
off under sub-section (1), so much of the loss as is not so P"*"'-1
set off or the whole loss where the assessee had no income
from any other speculation business, shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Chapter, be carried forward to the
following assessment year, and------ (i) ............. ..it shall be set off against the proﬁts and
gains, if any, of any speculation business carried on
by him assessable for that assessment year; and (ii) if the loss cannot be wholly so set off, the amount
of loss not so set 01)' shall be carried forward to the
following assessment year and iso on. Clauses 74-77
§','°.f b)(;,?,',., (3_') In respect of allowance on account of depreciation or
and s. 10 (2) capital expenditure on scientiﬁc research, the provisions of
(XIV), 2nd sub-section (3) of section 73 [preceding section regarding set

I})';':;'-]' (9 off etc. in non-speculation business] shall apply in relation to

' speculation business as they apply in relation to any other
business. . 5- 24 (2), (4) No loss shall be carried forward under this section

mi" Pam' for more than eight assessment years immediately succeed- pam] ing the assessment year ﬁor -which the loss was first com-
puted. Scction 75 (1) Where in the previous year relevant for any assess- Losses under ment year the assessee sustains a loss under the head "Capi-
ﬁg .t [had tal gains", the assessee shall, subject to the other provisions
gai:f,',_a of this Chapter, be entitled to have the amount 0 such

loss set off against his other income assessable for t at as-
[5- '*'4('*'A)] sessment year under the head "Capital gains". [S- 24 (2B), (2) Where in respect of any assessment year the net
Pa"-1 result of the computation under the head "Capital . gains" e3'1'°' Pa" sessee, being a registered ﬁrm, to have carried forward and
_ set off its loss .......... ..under the provisions of section 73(2) :'=°"°" :7 or 74(2) [24(2) main para] or section 75(2) [24(2B)]£

OSSCS 0

xﬁgnregistercd In the case. of an unregistered ﬁrm .......... ..assessed

as'? under the provisions of section 190(b) [23(5)(b)] in res- ﬁ,mf[,_24(,) pect of any assessment yeai-,2 its losses for that assessirient

Proviso (d).] year shall be dealt with as if git: were a registered ﬁrm: of the ﬁrm. [3, ,4") ma

. V 0,
(2) .......... ..Where the assesse is a partner of an unregis- 331;: ham
tered ﬁrm which has not been assessed as a registered ﬁrm
under the provisions of section 190(b) [s. 23(5)(b)] and his
share in the income of the ﬁrm is a loss,- (a) such loss shall not be set off under the provisions [New]
of section 73(1) , 74(1) , or 75(1) [ Sec. 24(1) ]; (b) nothing contained in sectio_n 73(2) or 74(2) [ Sec. 24 [§-o94(:)Ec)
(2) main para] or section. 75(2) [s. 24(2B)] shall ;;"§',',,an'.'1
entitle the assessee to have carried forward and set
not)' against his crwn income such loss. ( 1) Where a change has occurred in the constitution of S°°"°" 79
a ﬁrm, nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to entitle 5¢'°'T°f
the ﬁrm to have set off so much of the loss pro-, c°f';:°
portionate to the share of a retired or deceased partner com-- conititﬁion
puted in accordance with the provisions of section 69 [clause of firms or on (b) of sub-section (1) of section 16 ] as exceeds his share of SU°°=5Si°n-
proﬁts, if any, of the previous year in the ﬁrm, or to entitle [s_.24(2), Pro-
any partner to the beneﬁt of any portion of the said loss '"50 ('N
which is not apportionable to him under section 69 [sec-
tion 16(1)(b)]. ( 2) Where any person carrying _on any business, profes-
sion or vocation has been succeeded in such capacity by
another person otherwise than by inheritance, nothing in
this Chapter shall be deemed to entitle any person other E
than the person incurring the loss to have it set off against ,
his income ................ .. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, no Scc|§on80
loss which has not been determined in pursuance of a re- su ' 'on
turn ﬁled under the provisions of section 143 [22] shall be of Eturn for
carried forward and set of under section 73(2) or 74(2)1°'-"t-
[24(2)] or section 75(2) [24(2B)]. -- [s- ap<2A). part-I
CHAPTER VII 
INCOMES ON WHICH NO INCOME--'.=['AX IS PAYABLE ; Income-tax shall not be pxtyable by an assessee in res- section 31 pect _of such portion, if any, the med income inc1u- Earicd in-
ded in his total income as 1S directed by the annual Cen- conic. -tral Act ﬁxing the rate or rates of income-tax for any as- [8- I5A»°=1'1i- sessment year to be deducted in making an assessment for °' """']
that year .................................. .. (1) Income-tax shall not be payable by a co-operative %°0°_':g';mi§: ty; in respect of any income derived from the letting
of godowns or warehouses for storage, processing
or facilitating the marketing of commodities; (iii) (iv) in respect of any interest on securities chargeable
under section 18 [8] or any income from property
chargeable under section 22 [9], Where the total
income of such society does not exceed twenty
thousand rupees and the society is not a housing
society or an urban consumer's society or a society
carrying on transport business. (2) For the purposes of this section an "urban consu-
mers' co-operative society" means a society for the beneﬁt
of consumers within the limits of a municipal corporation,
municipality, municipal committee, notiﬁed area committee,
town area 01 cantonment. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply,
to------ (i) the Sanikatta Saltowners' Society; (ii) a co-operative society carrying on insurance busi-
ness in respect of the proﬁts and gains of that
business computed in accordance with section 44 [Rule 9 of the Schedule]. Income-tax shall not be payable by an assessee, who
is a member of a co-operative society, in respect of any
dividends received by him from the society. Income-tax shall not be payable by an assessee, which
is an authority constituted under any law for the time be-
ing in force for the marketing of commodities, in respect
of any income derived from the letting of godowns or ware-
houses for storage, processing or facilitating the marketing
of commodities. (1) Save as otherwise hereinafter provided, income-
tax shall not be payable by an assessee on so much of the
proﬁts or gains derived from any industrial undertaking
to which this section applies as do not exceed six per cent. per annum on the capital employed in the undertaking,. computed in accordance with such rules as may be made
in this behalf by the Central Board of Revenue. (2) This section applies to any industrial undertaking
which fulﬁls all the following conditions, namely:.-- (i) it is not formed by the splitting up or the recons- truction of business already in existence

. . . . . . .. 151'
Clauses 8537 (ii) it is not formed by the transfer to'a new business
of building, machinery or plant used in a business
which was being carried on before the 1st day of
April, 1948; (iii) it has begun or begins to manufacture or produce
articles in any part of India at any time within a
period of thirteen years from the 1st day of April,
1948, or such further period as the Central Gov-
ernment may, by notiﬁcation in the Ofﬁcial
Gazette, specify with reference to any particular
industrial undertaking; (iv) it hmploys ten or more workers in a manufactur-
ing process carried on with the aid of power, or
employs twenty or more workers in a manufac-
turing process carried on without the aid of power. (3) .......... ..The Central Government may, by notiﬁ- [M5 c (2),
cation in the Oﬂicial Gazette, direct that the exemption proviso.)
conferred by this section shall not apply to any particular
industrial undertaking. (4) The proﬁts or gains of an industrial undertaking [S-I5 C-'(3)l -
to which this section applies shall be computed in accor-
dgiace with the provisions of sections 28 to 43 [ Section
1 . (5) Nothing in this section shall aﬁect the application [:45 c(_=,)1
of sections 113 to 120 ....... .. [23A] in relation t6 the pro-
ﬁts or gains of an industrial undertaking to which this sec-
tion applies. (6) The provisions of this section shall apply to the [Ma 0(5)]
assessment---- (i) for the assessment year if in the previous year for
that assessment year the assessee begins to manu-
facture or produce articles, and (ii) for the four assessment years immediately suc-
ceeding. Income-tax shall not be payable by a shareholder in seceiones
respect of so much of any dividend id or deemed to be 1); dud
paid to him by an industrial underta ng as is attributable from new; in-
to that part of the_ proﬁts or gains on which inc'ome-taa: 5" ial .
is not payable under section 85 [preceding section re: new '["',= '3???
industrial undertakings]. 5' 5 4'

Income-tax shall not be payable by an assessee in res~ Section 37 pact of the following amounts which are included in his Other in.
total 'income---- comes. (i) ....... ..the interest received on any security of the [5.-8- 2"'! P'°'

Central Government_issued on declared to be in- ""°'

come-tax free; ' ' ' ' 152 Clauses 87-88
[New] (ii) the interest received on any security of a State
Government issued income-tax free, the income-
[Cf.s.8, 3rd tax whereon shall be payable by the State Gov- proviso.] ernment ; [5-'4") (3)1 (iii) if the assessee is a partner of an unregistered

ﬁrm, ............. .. any portion of the assessee's share
in the proﬁts and gains of the ﬁrm computed in

the manner laid down in section 69 [16 (1) (b)] on «

Valhlch income-tax has already been paid by the
rrn ; [,_,4 (._,)(aa)] (iv) if the assesse is a partner of a registered firm,

the amount which represents the difference bet- ,

ween-- (a) the assessee's share in the total income of the
ﬁrm,'and ' (b) hisshare in such total income as reduced by the
income-tax, if any, payable by the ﬁrm. the shares in either case being computed in the
manner laid down in section 69 [16(1) (b)]; and

(V) if the assessee is a member of an associatibn of
persons, other than a Hindu undivided family. a
company or a ﬁrm, .... .; any portion of the amount
which he is entitled to- receive from the associa-
tion on which income-tax has already been. paid
by the association. 8

CHAPTER VIII _
REBATES AND RELIEFS X

A---Rebate of income-tax. I!-14(9) (W

'''''on (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the as-
life insumnce sessee shall be entitled to a deduction, from the amount of
prcmia, income-tax on his total income with which he is c arge-
annuities and able for any assessment year '0 an amount equal to t e in-
fg"";g;'i'é::; come-tax calculated at the dverage rate of income-1; on
fund'; cm the following sums, namely:--- f
[s- :7 (2). ft
;'::5'1m] (a) .......... ..where the assessee is an individua any

sums paid in the previous year by the asse ee- (i) to effect or to keep in force an insurance the

life of the assessee or on the life of a Wife or
husband of the assessee ; or (ii) to eﬁect or to keep in force a contract foria de-
ferred annuity on the lig of the assessee gar on
the life of a wife or husband of the assessee ; or (iii) as a contribution to any provident fund to which

1909' 1925- the Provident Funds Act . 1925, applies; )1 153 Clauses 88-89 (b) where the assessee is a Hindu undivided family,... [s_ ,5 (2)]
any sums paid in the previous year by the assessee
to effect or to keep in force an insurance %n the
life of any male member of the family or of the
wife of any such member; ' (c) ....... ..any sum deducted in the previous year from [s_-, (1), 1,.
the salary payable by or on behalf of the Govern- proviIo.]
ment to any individual, being a sum deducted in
accordance with the conditions of his service, for
the purpose of securing to him a deferred annuity
or making provision for his Wife or children, in
so far as the sum so deducted does not exceed one-
ﬁfth of the salary; ' (d) if the assessee is an employee participating in a [New]
recognised provident fund, his own contributions
to his individual account in the Jund in /the previ-
ous year, to the extent provi ed in section 295 [58F] ; (e) if the assessee is an employee participating in an [New]
approved superannuation fund, any sum paid in
the previous year by him by way of contribution
towards the superannuation fund, to the extent
provided in section 311 [58R]. (2) The provisions of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section [s-I5§(2A)]
(1) shall apply only to so much of any premium or other '
payment made on a policy (other than 'a contract for a
deferred annuity) as is not in excess of? ten per cent. of the
actual capital sum assured. = *

Eacplanation:-- ....... ..In calculating any such capital
sum, no account shall be taken-- f (i) of the value of any premiums agreed to be return-
ed, or (ii) of any beneﬁt by wayof bonusor otherwise over
and above the sum aqtually assured, which is to
be or may be received under' the policy by any
person. (3)_ The aggregate of the sums in respect of which a[,_,5 (3)1

deduction of income-tax is allowed under sub-section (1),

shall not .......... .. exceed, in the case of an individual,
one--fourth of his total income ......... or eight thousand '
rupees, whichever is less, and in the case of a Hindu undi- vided family, one-fourth of iits total income or sixtee
thousand rupees, whichever is less. '

(1) Subject to the provisions of this. section, the asses- S°Ctl°P- 39~
see shall be entitled to a deduction from the amount of Dongtiom for
income-tax on his total income with which he is charge- °b"l""b'°
able for any assessment 'year,;_of an _ 1 nt equal to the p"mv_°m'

l

[s. 1513 (1)
main para
and 17 (2),
part.]

[s.15B (I)2nd

154 _
Clause 89
income-tax calculated at the average rate of income-tax

on any sums paid by him in the previous year as donations
to any institution or fund to which this section applies. (2) No deduction shall be made under sub-section (1)

p'°"is°' (3): if the aggregate of the sums paid as aforesaid by the asses- [s.15B (1)2nd
proviso, (b).]

[S-1 53 (3)1

[s.15B (2),
main para.]

21 of 1860

1 of 1956

see is less than two hundred and ﬁfty rupees. (3) No deduction shall be made under sub-section (1)
in respect of any sums paid in excess of one-twentieth of
the assessee's total income as reduced by any portion there-
of on which income-tax is not payable under any provi-
sion of this Act and by any amount in respect of which a
deduction of income-tax has been granted under the pro-
visions of this Chapter, or one hundred thousand rupees,
whichever is less. (4) The amount of income-tax deductible under this
section, together with the amount of super-tax deductible
under section 109 [section 15-B--for super-tax] shall not
in any case exceed half the aggregate of the donations in
respect of which the deduction is allowed under this sec-
tion. (5) This section applies to any institution or fund
established in India for a charitable purpose which fulﬁls
the following conditions, namely:--' (i) if the institution or fund derives any income-, such
income would not be liable to inclusion in its total
income under the provisions of section 12 (1) to 12 (4) [ section 4(3)(i) ] or section 12(5) [4(3) (ii)]
or section 11(24) [new provision added in the draft
clause for exclusion from total income, Wh' h re-
lates to universities or' other educational i stitu-
tions not existing for proﬁt] ; (ii) the institution or fund is not expressed to be for

the beneﬁt of any particular religious community; (iii) the institution or fund maintains regular accounts

of its receipts and expenditure; and (iv) the institution or fund is either constitutedas a

public charitable trust or is registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 , or under any law

corresponding to that Act in force in any part of

India or under section 25 of the Companies Act,

1956, or is a university established by law, or is

any other educational institution recognised by

Government or by a university established by law,

or afﬁliated to any university established by law

or ....... .. is an institution ﬁnanced wholly or in
part by the'Government or, a local authority. Clauses 89-92 x

(6) An institution or fund established for the beneﬁt [s.l (2),
of scheduled castes, backward classes, scheduled tribes or Exp n-]
of women and children shall not be deemed to be an insti-
tution or fund expressed to be for the beneﬁt of a religious

<(:ommunity within the meaning of clause (ii) of sub-section 5). . B.--Relief for income-tax

Where, by reason of any portion of an assessee's sala- Sgctiongo
ry being paid in arrears or in advance, or by reason of his 531,", paid
having received in any one ﬁnancial year salary for more for more than
than twelve months or a payment which is under the pro- 0116 V68'-
visions of section 17 [sub-section (1) ofsection 7] a perqui- [5-5° (")1
site or a proﬁt in lieu of salary, his income is'assessed at
a rate higher than that at which it would otherwise have
been assessed, the Central Government may grant the ap-
propriate relief. (1) Where by virtue of the provisions of section l3 5°°'_3°" 9'-
[ section 25(3) part and section 25(4) part as incorporated in Business 359-
the Chapter an exclusion from total income] the income fffe°dIn;':;: ness, profession or vocation Was discontinued or the suc-
cession took place, as the case may be.'

CHAPTER IX
DOUBLE TAXATION RELIEF

The Central Government may enter into an agree- Section 92 ment" Agreement
with coun- (a) with the Government of any 'country outside India tries- for the granting of relief in respect of income on ["495]
which have been paid; both came-tax (including
super-tax) under this ;Act rncome-tax in that
' country, or ' '

ll--l Law Com.I58 - '1 Section 93 Countries 156 Clauses 92-93 (h) with the Government of any country outside
India for the avoidance of double taxation of in-
come ....... .. under this Act and under the corres-
ponding law in force in that country; and may, by
notiﬁcation in the Official Gazette, make such provi-
sions as may be necessary for implementing the
agreement. (1) If any person who is resident in India in any pre-
vious year proves that, in respect of his income which ac- with which crues or arises during that previous year without_ India
noagreemcnt-(and which is not deemed to accrue or arise in India), he

exists. [349 13(1)]

[M9 D(3)]

l5- 4-9 D: vious year proves that -in respect of his income whi h ac-
crues or arises to him during' that previous year in akis-
tan he has paid in th tlcountry, by deduction or othe ise,
tax payable to the overnment under any law f the
time being in force in that country relating to taxat on of
agricultural income, he shall be entitled to a deduction
from the Indian income-tax payable by him-- 3 (a) of the amount of the tax paid in Pakistan llnder
any law aforesaid on, such income which is gliable
to tax under this Act also; or i (b) of a sum calculated on that income at the llndian
rate of tax; 1
whichever is less. Explanation.--In this section,- (i) the expression "Indian income-tax" means in ome- tax and super-tax charged in accordance wi the

provisions of this Act ; 3 _ (ii) the expression "I 'an rate of tax" me 5 the

rate determined by 'viding the amount of dian

income-tax. after deduction' of any relief du un-

der the provisions of this Act but before ded ction

of any relief due under this section, by the total
V income; ' (iii) the expression "rate of tax of the said country" try", includes any excess proﬁts tax or business
proﬁts tax charged on the proﬁts by the Govern-
ment of any part of that country or a local autho-
rity in that country. (1) Where any dividend has been paid, credited or dis- S°"f'°" 94
tributed or is deemed to have been paid, credited or dis- R611" to
tributed to a shareholder of a company which has obtain- gzmligzrdgg
ed the relief .......... ..granted under section 92 [49A] or un- as "relief to
der the India and Burma (Income-tax Relief) Order, 1936, share holder.
the shareholder shall be deemed in respect of such divi- [L450]
dend himself to have obtained such relief at the rate at 3
which such relief has been granted in respect of income-
tax only to the company for the ﬁnancial year preceding
the year in which the dividend was paid, credited or dis-
triguteg or is deemed to have been paid, credited or dis-
tri ute . (2) If the rate at which a shareholder is deemed un-
der sub-section (1) to have obtained relief exceeds the rate
at which he would have been entitled to relief had such
relief been given direct to him by or under the said section
or Order, any excess shall be recovered from him either
as an addition to the tax payable by him on any assess-
ment made on him under sect on 147 or 148 [23] or section
152 [34] or by setting it oif against any relief due to
him under section 247 [48]. '

CHAPTER X
PROVISIONS AGAINST AVOIDANCE OF TAX. ; _
SC¢t10n 95

Where business is carried on between a resident and a Och .
non-resident, .......... .. and it appears to the Income-tax ',':,';$
Ofﬁcer, that owing to the close conn tion between them, at-esmmn.
the course of business is so arrange that the business
transacted between them prgduces ti) the resident either
no proﬁts or less than the or inary proﬁts which mi ht be
expected to arise in that business, the Income-tax ﬂicer
shall determine the amount of proﬁts .......... .. which may
reasonably be deemed to have been? derived therefrom
ﬁnd include such amount in the total income of the resi- ent .......... .. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, "non-
~-resident" includes a person who is not ordinarily resident
within the meaning of section 6 , clause (6) [4B]. V Samoa 96

(1) Where there is a transfer of assets by virtue or in Aioidam, of
consequence whereof, either alone or in conjunction with indome-tax
associated operations, any income .......... ..becomes payable 1237 transec-
to a non-resident, the following provisions shall apply-- "°''' '°''''"''''

[S- p2 (2)1

l

in of
' e to
no -residents

[s.4 D (1),
part. [S- 44 D (2). part.]

[s~ 4413(3)]

l=~ 4413(4)] (a) (b) (2) 158 \
Clause 96

where any person has by means of any such trans- fer, .......... .. either alone or in conjunction with as-_

sociated operations, acquired any rights -by virtue
.......... ..of which he has. within the meaning of
this section, power to enjoy .... ..whether forthwith
or in the future, any income of a non-resident per-
son which, if it were -income of the ﬁrst--mentioned
person received by him in India, would be charge-
able to income-tax, that income shall, whether
it would or would not have been chargeable to
income-tax apart from the provisions of this sec-
tion, be deemed to be income of the ﬁrst-men-
tioned person for all the purposes of this Act; where, whether before or after any such transfer,
.......... .. any such first mentioned person receiv-
es or is entitled to receive .......... .. any capital sum
the payment whereof is in any way connected
with the transfer or any associated operations, then
any income which, by virtue or in consequence
of the transfer, either alone or in conjunction' with
associated operations, has become the income of
a non-resident shall, whether it would or would

not have been chargeable to income-tax apart from_

the provisions of this section, be deemed to be the
income of the ﬁrst-mentioned person for all the
purposes of this Act. . The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply

if such first mentioned 'person shows to the satisfaction of
the Income-tax Officer either- (a) that neither the transfer nor any associated ope- ration had for its purpose or for one of its puifposes
the avoidance of liability to taxation; or ' (b) that the transfer and all associated operations? were (3) bona ﬁde commercial transactions and were not
designed for the purpose of avoiding liabllijiy to
taxation. ; For the purposes of this section, an "assoéiated

operation" means, in relation to any transfer, an operation
of any kind effected by any person in relation to-E (i) any of the assets transferred, or (ii) any assets representing whether directly or' indi- rectly any of the assets transferred, or (iii) .......... ..the income arising from any such assets,

OI' (iv) .......... .. any assets representing whether directly

or indirectly the accumulations of income arising
from any such assets. Clause 96

(4) A person shall, for the purposes of this section, be [S_ 4413(5)]-
'deemed _to have power to enjoy income of a non-resident

. . . . . . . . . .. (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

the income is in fact so dealt with by any person
as to be calculated at some point of time and, whe-
ther in the form of income or not, to enure for
the beneﬁt of the ﬁrst-mentioned person, or

the receipt or accrual of the income operates to in-
crease the value to such ﬁrst-mentioned person of
any assets held by him or 'for his beneﬁt, or

such ﬁrst-mentioned person receives or is entitled
to receive at any time any beneﬁt provided or to
be provided out pf that income or out of moneys
which are or will be available for the purpose by
reason of the effect or successive effects of the as-
sociated operations on that income and assets
which represent that income, or

such ﬁrst-mentioned person has power by means
of the exercise of any power of appointment or
power of revocation or otherwise to obtain for
himself, whether with or without the consent of
any other person, the beneﬁcial enjoyment of the
income, or

such ﬁrst-mentioned erson is able, in any man-
ner whatsoever and W ether directly or indirectly,
to control the application of the income. (5) _In determining whether a person has power to en- [S-4413(5)]
joy income within the meaning of this. section, regard shall. - be had

to the substantial result and effect of the transfer

and any associated operations, and all? beneﬁts which may
at any time accrue to such person as a result of the trans-
fer and any associated operations shall be taken into ac-
count irrespective of the nature or form of the beneﬁts. , '(a)

For the purposes of this section---- .., .... ..'assets' includes propert' or rights of any
kind. and .... ..'transfer' in relat on to rights includes
the creation of those rights; [s. ' .44, D (7)
\3) J (b) .......... ..'beneﬁt' includes a payment of any kind; [s.4',D(-,-)Eb)] (c)

and

'capital sum' means- (i) any sum paid or payable by way of a loan or re- payment of a loan; and - (ii) any other sum paid or payable otherwise than

as income, being a sum which is not paid or
payable for full consideration in money or
money's worth.. ' ' - [§'a'§'t4.1D M

. Clauses 96-97

l"44D(7)(d)l (d) references to assets representing any assets. income
or accumulations of income include references to
shares in or obligation of any company to which,
or obligation of any other person to whom, those
assets, that income or those accumulations are or
have been transferred; ["44D(7)(°)3 (e) any body corporate incorporated outside India shall
be treated as if it were a non-resident; ["'44D(') 5' (f) a person shall be treated as a non-resident if he is

mp ""1 not ordinarily resident within the meaning of sec-
tion 6, clause (6).[4B]. [.4413 (3)] (7) The provisions of this section shall apply .......... .. also in relation to transfers of assets and associated opera-
 tions carried out before the commencement of this Act. [MAD (9)1 (8) Where any person has been charged to income-tax

on any income deemed to be his under the provisions of '

this section, and that income is subsequently received by
him, whether as income or in any other form, it shall not
again be deemed to form part of his income for the pur-
poses of this Act. Section 97 (1) Where the owner of any securities (in this sub-
Avoidance of section and in sub-sections (2) and (3) referred to as "the
 baangzzj owner") sells or transfers those securities, and .... ..', ...... ..
mm, in Sew buys back or re-acquires the securities, then, if thegresult
mics, of the transaction is that any interest becoming payable
in respect of the securities is receivable otherwise? than
[344 E(I)] by the owner, the interest payable as aforesaid shall whe-
ther it would or would not have been chargeable to i ome-
tax apart from the provisions of this sub-section, be eem-
ed. for all the purposes of this'Act, to be income 0 the
owner and not to be the income of any other person; [,_4_1E(,)] . (2) The references in sub-section (1) to buying back -A

or re-acquiring the securities shall be. demed to include
references to buying or acquiring similar securitie' so
however, that where. similar; securities are bought r ac-
quired, the owner shall be under no greater liabilit to

income-tax than he would have been under if the o 'ginal . securities had been bought back or re-acquired. [S-4413(1) & (3) Where any person .......... .. has had at any I time

 ""m;'§l4F during any previous year any beneﬁcial interest in} any

Pam] securities, and the result of any transaction relating to
such securities or the income thereof is that, in resp ct of
such securities, within such year, either no income ;is re-
ceived by him or the incomereceived by him is less than
the sum to which the income would have amounted if the
income from such securities had accrued from day to day
and been apportioned accor, ' 'gly, then the incomeifrom
such securities for su¢h year all be deemed to be t in-
come of such person..§ '

considers necessary for the 161 Clause 97

(4) .......... ..The provision of) sub-section (1) or sub- [s.44p()

section (3) shall not apply if
has had a beneﬁcial interest in the securities, as the case
may be, proves to the satisfaction of the Income-tax Offi-
cer- (a) that here has been no avoidance of income-tax, or (b) that the avoidance of income-tax ....... .. was excep-
tiona1'and not systematic and that there was not
in his case in any of the three preceding years any
.......... ..avoidance of income-ta_x.........by a trans-
action of the nature referred to in sub-section (1)
or sub--section (3). (5) Where any person carrying on a business which
consists wholly or partly in dealing in securities bugs or
acquires any securities, and .......... ..sells back or 're-t'rans-
fers the securities, then. if the result of the transaction is
that interest becoming payable in re$ect of the securities
is receivable by him, no account shall be taken of the
transaction in computing for any of the purposes of
this Act the proﬁts arising from or loss sustained in the
business. '

(6) Sub-section (5) shall_ have effect, subject to any
necessary modiﬁcations, as if references to selling back or
re-transferring the securities included references to selling
or transferring similar securi;ties_- '

(7) The Income-tax Ofﬁder may by
require any person to furnish him vjrithin such time
he may direct (not being les than tiventy-eightdays), in
respect of all securities of W ch such iperson was the owner
or in which he had a beneﬁcial interest at any time during
the period speciﬁed in the notice, Sileh particulars as he
urposes of this section and
for the purpose of discove ng whdther income-taar: has
been borne in respect of the intere$ 'on all those securi-
ties .......... .. i '

notice in writing

(8) For the purpose of sectian_.---.-
('a)' .......... ..'interest' includes a ﬁividend; (b) .......... ..'securities' includes stocks and shares; (c) securities shall be deemed to be similar if they
entitle their holders to the "same rights against

. the same persons as to capital and interest and the
same. remedies for the enforciement of those rights',
notwithstanding anydiﬁerendte in the total nominal

amounts of the respﬁtive s_ urities or in the form

in which they are id or' gas-manner in which
they can be transfe ed. a i '

. e owner, or the person who proviso. [S-44 13(3)]

['-;s4 sun

I ' .E(6J. as csagier 

»---.~.. 4. I-E44 13(5)] . Section 98 Charge of
super-tax. [s. 55, main
para.]

[New]

[s.55, 1:!
prov.] Section 99 Total income
for super-tax,
[s. 56.] Section 100 Business, pro- fession or
vocation cha- rged under

1 91 3 Act. [Sect 25,
proviso (a)
below subsec- uon(4)-l Section 101 Deductions
under interest
on securities. [New] 162 Clauses 98-101
CHAPTER XI

SUPER-TAX
A--Principal provisions

(1) In addition to the income-tax charged for any
assessment year, and save as otherwise provided in this
Act, there shall be charged, levied and paid for that as-
sessment year in respect of the total income of the previ-
ous year or previous years, as the case may be, of every
person, not being a registered ﬁrm ......... ..;.an additional
duty of income-tax (in this Act referred to as super-tax)
at the rate or rates laid down for that assessment year by
any Central Act: registered ﬁrm which has been assessed in the manner ap-
plicable to a registered ﬁrm under the provisions of sec-
tion 190 (b) [s. 23(5) (b)], su er-tax shall be payablo by
each partner of the ﬁrm indi dually on his share in the
income...- ....... ..of the ﬁrm and not by the ﬁrm itself. .... ..Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the :total
income of any person shall, for the purposes of super}-tax,
be the total income as assessed .......... ..for the purposes of
income-tax, and where an assessment of total incomdl has
become ﬁnal and conclusive for the purposes of income-tax
for any assessment year, the assessment shall also be ﬁnal
and conclusive for the purposes of super-tax for the same
assessment year. 1

The provisions of sections 13 and 91 [25(3) whole: and
(4) whole] shall not apply to the determination of the total

income for the purposes of super-tax except where the' ro- - ﬁts and gains of the business, rofession or vocation'
assesed to super-tax for the st time either for th
sessment year 1920-1921 or for the assessment year
1922. Where and in so far as the total income of an assessee
includes any interest on securities or: which no incom tax
is payable under section 8 '7(i) or section 8 (ii) [ section 8 Provisos 2 and 3], the - follow-
ing amounts shall be deducted in computing his total in-
come for the purposes of super-tax, namely :~-- (i) any reasonable sum expended by the assessee jor

the purpose ofrealising interest on such securi-
ties; . "1 ' '

ere
BS- _921-- * ' 163
Clauses 101-107 (ii) any interest payable on money borrowed for the
purpose of investment in such securities by the as-
sessee. (1) -All» the provisions of this Act relating to the charge Section 102 assessment, collection and recovery of income-tax .... ..sha11 Applicability'
apply, so far as may be and save as otherwise provided, of provisions
to the'charge, assessment, collection and recovery of su-t°SuPer-"W
per-tax. [S-58 (P)Parl]

(2) Save as expressly provided in any other section in [Scc.58(x),
this Chapter, the provisions of sections 3 , 167 174 (a)(i) and Part] (V11) (ii), 188 and 200 (1) [ Section 3 , section"19, section 20 , and
First Proviso to sub--section (1) of section 41 , section 8 , 3rd
proviso] and of Chapters VII, and VIII and sections 295 and 311, and rule 3(c) (ii) of the First Schedule [chapters
relating to income on which no income-tax is payable and
rebate of income-tax] shall not apply to the charge, assess-
ment, collection and recovery of super-tax. Without prejudice to the generali of the provisions Section I03
of section 99 [section providing that t e total income for Avoidance of
income-tax shall be the total income or super-tax also] super-tax-
the provisions of sections 97(2) , 97(3) , 7(4) , 97(7) , and 279 [NW]
[44E(2), 44F(3), Proviso and 44E(6)] apply in relation_ to [05 58- 13
super-tax as they apply in relation to income-tax, with an "F
the modiﬁcation that references therein to income--tax
shall be construed as references to super-tax. B.--Incomes which do not form part of total income for
super-tax ,

.... ..Where the income of an unregistered ﬁrm or other Scct_i-->n I04
association of persons not being a company has been as- share in un-

sessed to super-tax, .......... ..the share of a partner in the Ifgegisiercd
income of the ﬁrm or the amount of such income which ci';'m:'0§"'°'

is proportionate to' the share of a member of the associa- pmms,
tion, as the case may be, _shall not be included in his total [s_ 5» "d
income for the purposes of super-tax P,-ov,

. . . . Section 105 Any income of a co-operative society, in respect where- Co_ov mm
of no income--tax is payable" by it by virtue of the provi-wcie _
sions of section 82 [14(3), for "income_-tax], shall not be [S I -(3) for
included in its total income for the purposes of super-tax sﬁpc um]
Any dividends received by a' member of a co--o erative lsgctgen :6
society from the society shall not be included in is total ,,;'g~ '(';o_op_
income for the purposes of super-tax. ﬂame mic. ty. .......... ..Any income derived from the letting of go- [5°°- I4 (4)
downs or warehouses for storage, processing or facilitating f°~'s"P°"'""]
the marketing of commodities by an assesse, which is an 5°°'i°".'°7
authority constituted under a y law or the time being Efcﬁbtmg
in force for the marketing of c mmodi as, shall not be-in- [s. :15) for
cluded in its total income for. .e pu ties of super-tax. xupctttam]

l ' i 164 Clause 108 Section 108 Dividend, . _(1) Dividends received by a company .......... .. from an
from certain Indian company formed and registered after the 31st 'day of

¢°mP=mi=8- March, 1952, shall not be included in its total income for the,

 purposes of super-tax, where- [S- 55A (Mi) (1) the Central Government is satisﬁed that the Indian
Pa"-1 company is wholly or mainly engaged in an indus-
try for the manufacture or production of any one

ordmore of the items specified in sub-section (3),
an

[,,55A(,)(ii)] (ii) the Indian company fulﬁls the following :condi-
tions, namely :- truction of business already in existence;; (b) it is not formed by the transfer to it of building,
machinery or plant used in a business whibh was
at any time being carried on; and A (c) it employs ten or more workers in a manufac-
turing process carried on with the aid of ' ower,
or employs twenty or more workers in annanu-
facturing process carried on without thelaid of
power. ; \ [5- 55A (2)) (2) The exclusion speciﬁed in sub-section (1); shall
apply also to dividends payable to a company in respect
of any fresh capital'. raised by an Indian company after
the 28th day of February, 1953, by public subscript n for
the purpose of increasing the' production of, or s ing a
separate unit of, any one orjmore of the items spec ed in
sub-section (3). =

[5, son.' m (3) The items referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) 0) Pm-l are the following, namely:-- f

(1) Coal, including coke and other derivatives; §

(2) Iron and steel; Q
(3) Motor and aviation fuel, kerosene, crude oik and
synthetic oils (not being oil exploration); (4) Heavy chemicals ingluding fertilizers; (5) Heavy machinery used in industry including ball
and roller bearing and gear wheels and parts
thereof, boilers and steam generating equipment; (6) Machinery and equipment for the gen ration,
transmission and distribution of electric e ergy; (7) Non-ferrous 'metals including alloys;
(8) Paper including newsprint and paper board;
(9) Internal colnbustiongengines; 'I
(10) Power-driven pumps?" f
§ 1

l 165 Clauses 108-111

(11) Automobiles; (12) Tractors: be entitled to a deduction, from the_ amount of super-tax [15]';.fo,,.,p¢,
with which he is chargeable on histotal income, of an ta:c,'pan and
amount equal to the super-tax calculated at the aver- S-1l(3).Part-]
age rate of super-tax on such sum. . (2) The provisions of this sectiondo not apply to a [S- .153 (1)
company. - V E' !_'""'-1"" his total income, of an amount equal to the super-tax cal-g ' undertak- culated at the average rate of 'super-tatr: on proﬁts or gains '5 15E {or
derived from an industrial undertakmg, in cases where gu-,,,,_,,,x at
and to the extent to which inicome-tat ':is'not payable on s,1 (3),pa|'t.]
suc]h profits or gains under section 85 [15C for income- '
tax . (2) A shareholder shall be .-entitledto a deduction, from
the amount of super-tax with which he is chargeable on
his total income, of an amount equal {to the super--taa} cal-_
culated at the average rate of §super-tctrj on so much of any
dividend paid or deemed to he paid to' him by an indus-
trial undertaking as is attributable to itltat part of the pro-
ﬁts or gains on which he is entitled to a deduction of su-
per-taa: under this section. 1 z 1 '

Where the assessee is a partner bf a registered ﬁrm, Se¢i°n 1" E 9 166 Clauses 111-114 (ii) his share in the total income of the ﬁrm as re-
duced by the income-tax, if any, payable by the
ﬁrm. at the rate of income-tax applicable to its
total income, on the amount of its income from
all sources other than from any business carried
on by it ............. .. the shares in either case being computed in the manner
laid down in section 69 [ section 16(1) (b) ]. Section 112 Renemr sa1_ The provisions of section 90 [ Section 69(2) ] apply in
my received relation to super--tax as they apply in relation to income-
in arrear etc. tax. }:f',°°' 62532.: D----Additional super-tax on undistributed proﬁts.
tax.] section 113 (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) and of

supemax 0,, sections 114 , 115 , and 116 [Sec. 23A, su_b-sections (2), (ti)
undistributcd and (9)], where the Income-tax Officer is satisﬁed that in

income of respect of any previous year the proﬁts and gains distribu-
gggafnics ted as dividends by any company within the twelveVmon-
[Se IE3,' '(D ths immediately following the expiry of that previous
part.] year are less than the statutory percentage of the distri-
butable income of the company of that previous year, .... ..
iii;"i£{é5meLi;i$é"oiiicer"§ii},iii"f .....'.'.'.'.I'.':h'.3,1'1l:e a}{""'c§'r}ier iii
writing that the company shall, apart from the surn de-
termined as payable by it on the basis of the assessment
under section 147 or 148 [23], be liable to pay super-
tax at the 'rate of-- J (a) ﬁfty per cent, in the case of an investment com-
pany, and (b) .......... ..thirty-seven per cent. in the case cﬁ any
other company, ' =
on the undistributed balance of the total income of the
previous year, that is to say, on the distributable income
are reduced by the .......... ..-...dividends actually distributed,
1 any. . [S- 23A (1) (2) The Income-tax Oﬂiccr shall not make an prder
P'""]' under sub-section (1) if he is satisﬁed-- ' (i) that, having regard to the losses incurred by%- the
company in earlier years or to the smalln s of
the proﬁts made in the previous year, the~pa ' ent
of a dividend or a larger dividend than that dee-
lared would be unreasonable; or (ii) that the payment of a dividend or a 1arger§divi-
dend than that declared would not have resulted
in a beneﬁt to the revenue .......... .. . Section 114 , _
special pmvi_ No order under section 113 [s. 23A(1) operative part]
gem go, ee,_ shall be made,-- e e 7
$2 °°mpa' (i) in the case of an investment company which has

distributed not less than ninety per cent. of its

ts. 23A (2)1 distributable income; or. i

: tion falls short of the statutory percentage by not
more than ﬁve per cent. of its distributable in-
come; or (iii) in any case where according to the return made
by a company under section 143 [22] it has dis-
tributed not less than the statutory percentage of
its distributable income, but in the assessment
made by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer under section 147
or 148 [23] a higher total income is arrived at
and the difference in the total income does not
arise out of the application of section 150(1) Pro--
viso or section 150(2) [proviso to section 13] or
section 148 [sub--section (4) of section 23] or the
omission by the company to disclose its income
fully and truly; /
unless the company, on receipt of a notice from the

Income-tax Oﬂicer that he proposes to make such an or- der, fails to make within three months of the receipt of

such notice, a further distribution of its proﬁts and gains
so that the total distribution made is not less than the sta-,
tutory percentage of the disributable income. No order shall be made by the Income-tax Oﬂicer under S°°'i°" "5 section 113 [s. 23A(1) operative part] unless the previous Approval of
approval of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner .......... .. 
....... ..has been obtained, and the Inspecting Assistant Com- Com,,{;,,i°,,_
missioner shall not give his ap roval to any order proposed er.
to be made by the Income-tax fficer until he has given the [S- 23 A (3)-]

company.concerned an opportunity of being heard. Nothing contained in section 113 [s. 23A (1), operative Scction us
part] shall apply----- ' Savings for
com any in (a) to any company in which the public are substantial- 3:' 3" "tb'"_'
ly interested; or tially iii';- (b) to a subsidiary company of such company if the A (QM
whole of the share capital of such subsidiary com-
pany has been held by the parent company or by
its nominees throughout the previous year. (1) For the purposes of ............. .......... .. section 116 'S'°(:;°" 'f7
[23A(9)] a company shall be deemed to be a company-1nwhi'§P""3;;l: which not less than forty per cent. of the shares are 123 A

held by the Governmmt; Se (a), (b) (i) main
para, clause (b) (ii) and
clause ( b) (iii); main

par earlier
hm? ,. Clause 117

1 of 1956 (b) if it is a public company as deﬁned in the Com-
panies Act, 1956, and?- (i) its shares (not being shares entitled to a ﬁxed
rate of dividend, whether with or without a fur-
ther right to participate in proﬁts) carrying not
less than ﬁfty per cent. of the voting power have
been allotted unconditionally to, or acquired un-
conditionally by, and were throughout the pre-
Vious year beneﬁcially held by, the Government
or a corporation established by a Central, State
or Provincial Act or the public (not including a
company to which the provisions of section 113 [23A(1) operative part] apply): vious year the subject of dealing in any'recognised
stock exchange in India or were freely transferable
by the holder to other members of the public; and (iii) the affairs of the company or the shares carrying
more than ﬁfty per cent. of the total voting ower

were at no time duringthe previous year con _ olleda

or held by five or less persons .......... ..: sons w o are nominea 0 any 0 er person o {e er
with that other persotrshall be treated as alsingle
{SW1 ,3 A person. Exp . 1, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
clausc (b), E.rplanation.--In this sub-section, the expression :"rela-
'!!!"°1'*"3° . tive" ............. me ns husband, wife, lineal ascendant or
("O 1%? descendant, brother gr sisters ' F

 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . us . . . . . . . . . .., . . . . . . . . ..' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..:. . . . . .. . I»
I «
s 169 Clauses 118-120

For the purposes of sections 113 and 114 [23A (1), sub- Section 118 stantive part and (2)], "distributable income" means the <<Dig¢.-ibuta- total income of a company .... ....... .. as reduced by-- (a) the amount of income-tax and super-tax payable by
the company in respect of its total income, but
excluding the amount of any super-tax payable
under section 113 [s. 28A(1) operative part]; (b) the amount of any other tax levied under any law
for the time being in force on the company by the
Government or by a local authority in excess of the

amount, if any, which has been allowed in comput»
V ing the total income; ............. .. (c) any sum in respect of which a deduction of income-
tax is allowed under the provisions of section 89
[15B]; and (d) in the case of a banking company, the amount ac-
tually transferred to a. reserve fund under section
17 of the Banking Companies Aet, 1949. For the purposes of sections 113 . 114 and 120, [Sec. 23A,
sub-section (1) Operative part, sub-section (2) and Explana-
tion 2], "investment company" means a 9' dmpmzy whose busi-
ness consists wholly or mainly in the dealing in or holding
of investments. '

For the purposes of ....... .. ections 113 and 114 [23A(1),

substantive part and 23A (')] "statutory percentage" city or any other form of powqr ........ .................. ..45%. (iii) in the case of an Indihn com (any, a part only of
whose business consists in anylof the ctivities speciﬁed in
clause (ii)-- ' 1 ' (a) in relation to the said ;part of the company's busi- ness ..................................... ..,..' .................. ..45%. (b) in relation to the remaining pm of the company's
business-- 3 '

(1) if it is a company which sa. ' ﬁes the conditions
speciﬁed in sub-clause (a) of 1 use (iv) ....... ..90%. (2) in any other case ............. ....I ................... ..60%

the said percentages being applied separately with
reference to the amounts of proﬁts and gains
attributable to the
business aforesaid
respectively the t

10f the company's
'd amounts were
i the companyin

 

blc inccme". [s. 2 A (1). part. 10 of194.g. Sect, :19 7011 "Investment
company." [New] 120 S. A'. Clauses 120-122

relation to each of its parts, the amount of divi-
dends and taxes also being similarly apportioned,
for the purposes of sections 113 and 118 [s. 23A
(1)--part regarding "Distributable Income"]; (iv) in the case of any other company not referred to in
the preceding clauses.- (a) where the accumulated proﬁts and reserves (includ-
ing the amounts capitalised from the earlier re-
serves) representing accumulations of past proﬁts
which have not been the subject of an orderunder section 113 [s. 23A(1), operative part] exceed the
greater of the following, that is to say,-- either
I. the aggregate of-- (i) the paid-up capital of the company exclusive of the
capital, if any, created out of its proﬁts and gains

which have not been the subject of an order under
section "113 [s. 23A(1), operative part]; (ii) any loan capital which is the property of the share- holders; or
II. the actual cost of the ﬁxed assets of the company,
 %, (b) where sub-clause (a) does not apply ....... .. 60%. CHAPTER XII" . 171
Clause 123

(1) Where the total income of an assessee includes any swim.
compensation or other payment which is chargeable as the Tax
proﬁts and gains of a business carried on by the managing °.°mP°""-
agent, manager or other person, as the case may be, under '['s°T'I'o ( A)
the provisions-of section 28(ii) , (a), (b), (c) and (d) [10(5A)1a;; gara: duced by the amount of such compensation or other
payment, at the average rate /of income-tax, (ii) the super'-tax payable on his total income as re-
duced by the amount of such compensation or other
payment, at the average rate of super-tax, and (iii) the tax on such compensation or other payment at
the average -of the average rates of income-tax and
super-tax applicable to his total income for the
three assessment years immediately preceding the
assessment year ................ .. E.7cplanation.--For the purposes of determining the [New]

average under clause (iii), the rates of income-tax and super-
tacc applicable for any assessment year preceding the assess-
ment year shall,'where the assessee had been assessed as a
registered ﬁrm, be the rates applicable for such assessment
year to an unregistered ﬁrm having the same total income
as that declared by the assessee for such assessment year. (2) Where an assessee is a partner of a registered ﬁrm [NW1

or an unregistered ﬁrm assessed as a registered ﬁrm under
the provisions of section 190(b) [23 (5) (b)], and such ﬁrm
is in receipt of any such compensation or other payment,
the taxbpayable by him on his total income shall, if he so
elects, e-- i (i) the income-tax payable 'on his total income as re-
duced by the amount of his share in such compensa-
tion or other payment, at the average rate of in-
come-tax, ' (ii) the super-tax payable on his total income as reduc-
ed by the amount of his share in such compensation
or other payment, at the average rate of super-tax,
and ' (iii) the tax on his share in such compensation or other
payment at the average of the average rates of in-
come-tax and super-taag appl' le to his total in-
come for the three as ssment years immediately
preceding the assessm t year: ~; 12-1 Law. Com/58, 4 ' 172 Clauses 124-125

§>=¢€50§ 124- {3} Where a person is a 'rw'a--residem: and is not a_;com-
rax 01;; the pany. _.he_tax .............. .. payable by him or on his be-
;E:';fim_"°"' half on 1115 total income shall be an amount equal to-+- [s- 37(1) (a) the income-tax which would be payable on his
mam para]

tatal income at the maximum rate, plus (b) either the super-tax which would be payable on his
total income at the rate of nineteen per cent. or the
super--tax which would be payable on his total in-
come if it were the total income of a resident,
whichever is greater. E=- I7(I)qst (2) Any nomresidemf, other than a company, may .... ..
P"T';"~ °3"""' ........ .. on or before the 30th day of June of the assess-
?" '1 ment year in which he first becomes asseésable, ..... ...... .. by notice in writing to the Income-tax Ofﬁcer declare §(such
declaration being ﬁnal and being applicable to all assess-
ments thereafter) that the tax ......................... .. payable
by him or on his behalf on his total income shall be deter-
mined with reference to his total world income, and Shere-
upon notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1):, such
tax shall be determined in accordance with sub-gectioil.' (3). [._ ,7") m (3) Where under the provisions of sub-section (H) or
prom, latter under any similar provision of the Indian Income-tar Act,
P3"-If 1922, any non-resident has exercised his option to beltaxed
" ° '9" with reference to his total ugorld income. the tax p gable
by him or on his behalf on His total income shall be an
amount bearing to the total amount of tax .......... ..I ...... ..
which would have been payable on his total world i come
had it been his total income the same proportion 5 his

total income bears to his total world income. It :7 (I).2nd (4) .......... ..Where any .......... ..person referred to in
""""3 sub-section (1) satisﬁes the Income-tax Officer that he was
prevented by sufﬁciept cause' from making the declapmtion

referred to in that sub-section or in any similar pftmision

II $1992 of the Indian Income'-tan: A 1922, on the ﬁrst occa'?'gn on

which he became assessable nder this Act or the s ' Act
as the case may be, and his failure to make such declration
has not resulted in reducing his liability to tax for an' year,
the Income-tax Oﬂicer may, with the previous app): val of
the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner. allow such erson
to make the declaration at 3; time after the expiry of the
period specified, and such claration shall have e ct in
relation to the assessment for the year in which the clare-
tion is made (if such assesmient had notibeeneco pleted
before such declaration} and all assessments there ter. Section r2:;- Where the total income of an assessee. not I ing a
if' company, includes any income chargeable under t head
cmf?,fassCS_ "Capital gains", the tax. ................... .. payable by im on
sesotheg than his total income shall be-- Eim (a) the amount $1' inconjegtax and super-tax payable on

panlc
(6) . opegnglincs his total in me as ﬁejzluced by the amount of such 173 Clauses 125-127

inclusion, had the total income so reduced been his
total income, plus

[s- *x7 _(6)
clause (1)
part] (b) an amount of income-tax determined in accordance [s- 1] (6)(ii)'

' with the following formula, that is to say---- mm" Pm")
YX99,
T--2/3CG

where- X stands for the amount of income-tax referred to in
the beginning of this cause. T stands for the total income of theassessee (which in-
cludes capital gains),

CG stands for the income chargeable under the head

"Capital gains" included in the total income of the '
assessee. and

Y stands for the income-tax which would have been
payable on the total income of the assessee as re-
duced by two-thirds of the amount of the income
chargeable under the head "Capital gains" included
in his total income. had the total income so reduced
been his total income : payable by it shall be-- paniés. (a) the amount of income-tam with_'which it is charge- [s. 17(7).
able on its total income, and Pa"-l (b) the amount of super--taa< with which it is charge-
able on its total income as reduced by the amount
of such inclusion. had the total: income so reduced
been its total income. CHAPTER XIII '

INCOME-TAX AUTHoR.i'rIEs
A{----Appointment and control

Scc..ion 127. There shall be the following classes of Income-tax IncDmc_-'_I'ax
authorities for the purposes offthis Act, 'namely :-- ""'?'°'"'°'- (a) the Central Board of _evenue,q ( I." 5m] (b) Directors of Inspection i '
I c) Commissioners of Inco e-tax, 174 Clauses 127-130 (d) Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax, who may
be either Appellate Assistant Commissioners of In-
come-tax or Inspecting Assistant Commissioners of
Income--tax. (e) Income-tax Oiﬁcers, and (f) Inspectors of Income--tax. (1) The Central Government may appoint as many Di- Section 128 . rectors of Inspection, Commissioners of Income-tax, Appel-
APP°""' late or Inspecting Assistant Commissioners of Income-tar

f(')'::,is_m';fI"' and Income-tax Officers of Class 1 Service, as it thinks ﬁt... Authorities, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. [$616, 5(IA)'

ear ier part, _ . _ _ '
5695(2), (2.) ................... .. The Commissioner may, sub3ect to
earlier part, the rules and orders of the Central Government regulating
and S°°~ the conditions of service of persons in public services and

39%] mm" posts, appoint as many Income-tax Oiﬁcers of Class II Ser- [Sm 5(3) vice and as many Inspectors of Income-tax, as he thinks ﬁt. 1'"'°" P3"-3 (3) Subject to the rules and orders of the Central Gov-
ernment regulating the conditions -of service of persons in
[566-5(3A)l public services and posts, an Income--tax authority may ap-
point such executive or ministerial staff as may be neces-
sary 1;o assist it in the execution of its functions. Section 129 (1) Appellate Assistant Commissioners .......... .. shall be

g:'c"(:;f;_tax°f under the direct control of the Central Board of Reve- Authnrities' nue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [Se_c- 5(4),
~ C8.I'll€i' part.]
(2) ................ .. Inspecting Assistant Commissioners
[Scc. 5 (7) shall be subordinateto the Director of Inspection, and to

(M the Commissioner ................... .. within whose jurisdiction
they perform their functions. . '

(_t,§§c. 5(7) (3) Income-tax Olﬁcers shall be subordinate to the Di-
ll

rector of Inspection. the Commissioner .......... .. arid the
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner ............. .. within whose
jurisdiction they perform their functions. [Sec- 5 (5A), (4) Inspectors of Income-tar shall be subordinate to the

lme' Pa"-1 Income-tax Oﬁicer or other Income-tax authority under
whom they are appointed to work and to any other Income-
tar authority to whom the said Oﬁicer or authority is
subordinate. _ . Explanation.-----For the purposes of sub-section (2). "Di-
rector of Inspection" does not include a Deputy Director of
Inspection or an Assistant Director, of Inspection; and for
the purposes of sub--section (3), "Director of Inspection" B-Jurisdiction

(1) .......... .. Directors of In _ection shall, subject to the Section 13 : ject to any orders which the Central Board of Revenue
may make for the distribution and allocation of the work to
be performed. (3)~(a) ................ .. Appellate Assistant Commissioners [Sm 5(4),
shall perform their functions in respect« of such persons or lame part.]
classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of income
or in respect of such areas as the Central Board of Revenue
may direct, and, where such directions have assigned to
'two or more Appellate Assistant Commissioners .......... ..
the same persons or classes of persons or the same incomes
or classes of income or the same area, in accordance with
any orders which the Central Board of Revenue may make
ﬁor the distribution and allocation of the work to be per- ormed: ,missioner .......... .. may direct, and where such directions

[369 5(5),
_atter pa.rt.]

[Scc. 5 (5A)
earlier Part.]

[SW 5(5)]

[New]

[New]

have assigned to two or more Inspecting Assistant Commis-
sioners ....... .. or Income-tax Officers, the same persons or
classes of persons or the same incomes or classes of income
or the same area, in accordance with any orders which the
Commissioner may make for the distribution and allocation
of the work to be performed .......... .. (5) ............. .. The Commissioner may, by general or
special order in writing, direct that the powers coriferred
on the Income-tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Com-
missioner by or under this Act shall in respect of any speci-
ﬁed case or class of cases or of any speciﬁed person or classes
of persons be exercised by the Inspecting Assistant Commis-
sioner and the Commissioner respectively. and for the pur-
poses of any case or person in respect of which any such.
order applies, references in this Act or in any rules made
hereunder to the Income-tax Officer and the Appell 'te As-
sistant Commissioner, shall be deemed to be refere pces to
the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, and the Commis-
sioner, respectively. i

func- them
hority

tions in the execution of this Act as are assigned t
by the Income-tax Officer or other Income-tax au

(6) Inspectors of Income-tax shall perform suc|%
under whom they are appointed to work ............ .. . . . . . . . . .. (7) The Central Board of Revenue may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, empower Commissioners. ....... ..
Appellate Assistant Commissioners and Income-tax ﬁicers
to perform such functions in respect of such classes f per-
sons or such classes of income or such area as may b speci-
ﬁed in the notiﬁcation, and thereupon the functions 5 speci-
ﬁed shall cease to be performed, in respect of the s ciﬁed
classes of persons or classes of income or area, by the other
authorities appointed under "sub-sections (2), (3) and{ (4). Such notiﬁcation shall not render necessary the 'V -issue
of any notice already issued ' the Income-tax Oﬁic r who
was previously exercising such functions. (8) For the purposes of any case or person in respect
whereof an order under sub,»-section (5) applies.---- 2 (a) any provision of Act requiring the a mval
or sanction of the linspecting Assistant C m'mis-
sioner in any/matter shall not apply; (b) any appeal which would otherwise lie to the Ap-
pellate Assistant Commissioner shall lie to the
Oommissionerr; and (c) any appeal which would have lain from any order
of the App late A ' tan: Commissioner' ,- the
High Court ll lie': 'm the order of "the C mis-
sioner to thy High _ _ rt. i ' i ' 177 Clauses 132-134

(1) The Commissioner .......... .. may, for reasons to sect,~a,,3g
be recorded in writing, transfer any case from one In- Tramps, or
come-tax Officer subordinate to him to another also sub- case ftomonc
ordinate to him, and the Central Board of Revenue may, 1n°°I¥°"3«" nae, as the case may be, shall, before passing any order an- [New]
der sub~section (1), give the assessee cl reasonable oppor-
tunity of being heard in respect of the proposed transfer. (3) The Commissioner or the Central Board of Reve- [New
nue, as the case may be, may, in special cases and for
reasons to be recorded in writing, dispense with the giving
of such opportunity as is referred to in sub-section ((2), but
the assessee shall, in every such case, be entitled to make
a representation to the Commissioner or the Central Board
of Revenue, as the case may be, againa the order of trans-
fer within one month of the date on which he comes to
know of the order. '

. (4) .......... ..Transfer of a case under sub-section (1)[s.5 (7A),
may be made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall mam Pan»
no. render necessary the re-issue of any notice already is- 1""? 9"")
sued by the Income-tax Officer from whom the case is '
transferred. Explanation.--In this section, "case", in relation to any [5 (M)
person whose name is speciﬁed in the order of the trans-- "M15
fer, means all proceedings under this Act in respect pf .,
any year (including a past year) which may be pending on '
the date of the transfer, and, includ 6 -all proceedings un-
der this Act which may in respect $ any year (including

a past or a future year) be commenced after the date of
the transfer .......... .. ' . Whenever in respectmf any proceeding under this Act Section I33
an Income-tax authority ceases to exercise jurisdiction, 9 angc of
and is succeeded by another who has and exercises jurisdic- 1 umbcm °'
tion, the Income-tax authority so succeeding may continue[ °'5°°('7C)
the proceeding from the stage at which the proceeding was min p'Z,a»_] '
left by his predecessor : 6 6

Provided that the assessee concerned may .demand [' 5' (7C). 18¢
that before the proceeding 'is so continued the previous K "-3
proceeding or any part thereof be re-opened or that be--- fore any order for assessment is passed against him he be '
reheard. (1) For the purposes of sections 260 , 265 , 267(2) , 271 S-cction :34

and 272 [ Section 33(2) , earlier partgsection 33(4), section uthnrity
33A. section 33B(1) , section 66(1) , section 66(2) , 66(3) , 66(5) , '?°;nP¢t¢'1t t9
66(7)] the Commissioner re erred therein shall, in rela-'3 ° °' °°'"" time being jurisdiction V the 3 Nawj mg'. Clauses 134-135

(2) For the purposes of sections 230 to 239 and 275 [ section 33(5) , sec. 46 ] the Income-tar Oﬂicer referred to
therein shall, in relation to an assessee. be the Income-tax
Oﬁicer having for the time being jurisdiction over the as-
sessee. 5<=Cti0n I35 (1) Where an assessee carries on a business, profes-
Ingo:notax_ sion or vocation at any place, he shall be assessed by the
'(B3103 0111:' Income-tax Officer of the area in which that place is situ- led in question by an assessee---- S' ' (a) if he has made a return ............................... .... ..
;[;ro%i(3¢e)ariiI:: , under section' 143(1) [ Section 22(1) ] and has
Parl]- stated therein his principal place of business, pro-
fession or vocation, or
[g,5,._(3),2,,d (b) (if he has not- made such a return), ....... .. after
prov. latter the expiry of the time allowed by the notice under
Part-] section 143(2) [sub-section (2) of section 22 ] or
under section 154 [34] for the making of a re-
turn. [s. 64(3), 3rd (5) .... ..If the place of assessment is called in question
Prov-l by an assessee, then, subject to the provisions of sub-sedtion

(4), the Income-tax Oﬂicer shall, if not satisﬁed withi the
correctness of the claim, refer the matter for determination
under sub-section (3).before assessment is made. [s. 64(4)] (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this ';sec-
tion,» every Income-tax Oﬁicer shall have all the powers
conferred by or- under this Act on an Income-tax Oﬂicer
in respect of any income .......... ..accruing, or arising or
received within the area for which he is appointed. 2

[g_ 54(5)] (7) The provisions of sub~section (1) and sub-section
(2) shall not apply .......... ..to any assessee--- (a) on whom an assessment ..or re-assessment for ,.u the
purposes of th Act hajsﬁbeen, is being or is t be
made in the c e of any case in respect of w$ich

E i . Clauses 135-136

a Commissioner .......... .. appointed without refer-
ence to area under section 131(2) [ Sec. 5(2) , latter
part] is exercising the functions of a Commissioner,
. . . . . . ..'....OI' (b) where by any direction given or any distribution
or allocation of work made by the Commissioner
.......... ..under section 131(4)......[Sec. 5(5), earlier-
part] or in consequence of any transfer made un-
der section 132 [Sec. 5(7A), main para], a particular
Income-tax Officer has been charged with the
function of assessing that assessee, or (c) who or whose income is included in a class of per-
sons or a class of incomes speciﬁed in any notiﬁ- cation issued under section 131(7) [ S. 5(6) ];
but the assessment of such person; ......... ..shall be
made by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer for the time being charged
with the function of making such assessment by the Central
Board of Revenue or by the Commissioner .......... .. to whom
he is subordinate, as the case may be. . C--Powers. (1) The Income-tax Ofﬁcer, Ap ellate Assistant Com- 36°"-"' 135
missioner and Commissioner .... ..shall," for the purposes of *'9""'-"' .'°3'"'
this Act have the same powers as are vested in a court d'"gm'3i':°c':i';
under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 when trying ;¥'p¢vid,,n¢.,

a suit in respcet of the following matters, namely- :~-- etc. (a) discovery and inspection; [Sec-37(1)] (b) enforcing the attendance of any person, inc1uding5°"9°3

any officer of a banking company and examining
him on oath; (c) compelling the production of books of account and
other documents; and (d) issuing commissions. (2) Where any Income-tax authority exercises ' any
powers referred to in sub-section (1),. it shall follow, so
far as may be, the same procedure as a court under the
said Code. '

(3) Subject to any rules made in this behalf, any au- [Sec-137(3)]
thority referred to in sub-section (1) may impound and
retain in its custody for such period as it thinks ﬁt any
books of account or other documents produced before it
inany proceeding under this Act: 'Clauses 136-138

[New] _ (4) Where any person, whether a party to the proceed-
ing or not, is desirous of receiving back any book of ac-
count or other document produced by him in any pro-
ceeding under this Act before any Income-tax authority,
the Income-tax authority may, unless the book 'of account
or other document is impounded under sub-section (3), re- turn the same to such person on an application made for
the purpose. [3- 37(4)] _ (_5) Any proceeding before any authority referred to
in this section shall be deemed to be a judicial' proceeding

within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 and for the-_

45 of186o purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code. Section 137- Subject to any rules made in this behalf, any Income- Powers of s§- tax Ofﬁcer specially authorised by the Commissioner in
arch and 5°" this behalf may,---- _

ZUYC. .7

[5- 37(9)} (i) enter and search any building or place where he
has reason to 'believe that any books of account or
other documents which in his opinion will beiuse-
ful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this
Act. may be found, and examine them, if fdund; (ii) seize any such booksiof account or other documents
and have them removed to his oﬁice, if necpssary; (iii) place marks of identiﬁcation on any such books of
account or -other documents or make or cause to
be made extracts or copies therefrom; (iv) make a note or an .inventory of any articles or
things found in the course of any search under this
section which in his opinion will be useful fox;
or relevant 'to, any proceeding under this Act; 5 of 1393- and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Proce-
dure, 1898, relating to searches shall apply, so far
as may be, to searches under this section. a

Section X38 The Income-tax Olﬁcer, _the Appellate Assistant Com-
powc, to can missioner or the Inspecting ?Assistant Commissioner may,
or inrorma- for the purposes of this Act,----- 3 -
U011. . [SW 33] (1). require any ﬁrm .... .:to furnish him with a return

of the names and addresses of the partners of the ﬁiirmvand

their respective shares; (2) require any Hindu undivided family to furnish
him with a return of the names and addresses of thb man-
ager and the members of the family; (3) require any. person whom he has rea n to
believe to be a trus ee, guadian or agent, to furni h him
with a return of th names3>ﬁ the persons fpr or of whom

he is trustee, guard or a' ept, and of their addr es; 181'

Clauses 9.138-141

(4) require any assessee to furnish a statement of the
names and addresses of all persons to whom he has paid
in any previous year rent, interest, commission, royalty or
brokerage, or any annuity, riot being an annuity taxable
under the head "Salaries", amounting to more than four
hundred rupees, together with particulars of all such pay-
ments made; (5) require any dealer, broker or', agent or any person
concerned in the management of a 'stock or commodity Ex-
change to furnish a statement of the ' names and addresses
of all persons to whom he or: the Exchange has paid any
sum in connection with the sale. exchange or transfer of a
capital asset, or on whose behalf or from whom he or the
Exchange has received any such sum. together with parti-
culars of all such payments and receipts; (6) require any person, including a banking company
or any officer thereof. to furnish i Vormation in relation
to such points or matters, or to furnish statements of ac-
counts and affairs veriﬁed in the manner speciﬁed by the
Income-tax Officer. the Appellate Atsistant Commissioner
or the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, giving informa-
tion in relation to such points or matters as, in the opinion
of the' Income-tax Ofﬁcer, the Appellate "Assistant Commis-
sioner or the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, will be
useful for. or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act. The Income-tax Officer, the Ag) fllate Assistant Com- section .39
missioner or the Inspecting Assis nt Commissioner, or _P§Wcr *0

any person subordinate to him authorised in writ--1 * "Sit: demand, prepared
, : shall be {treated

ing relating' to the recov of a
for the -purposes of 's

v r

I of 1872

[S- _54 (2),
earlier part]

Is-54 (3) (a)]

45 of 1860

[s- 54 (3)(b)]

[New]

[S- 54 (3) (0)1

[S- 54 (3) (d)]

[New]

[9 of 1908

1 of 1956

I82

Clause 141

as confidential, and notwithstanding anything contained in
the Indian Evidence Act . 1872, no court shall, save as pro-
vided in this Act, be entitled to require any public servant
to produce before it any such return, accounts, documents
or record or any part of any such record, or to give evidence
before it in respect thereof. . (2) No public servant shall disclose any particulars
contained in any such statement. return, accounts, docu-
ments, evidence, aﬂidavit, deposition or record .......... .. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the disclo-
sure---- (a) of any such particulars for the purposes of a prose-
cution for any offence under the Indian Penal
Code, 1860 in respect of any such statement, return,
accounts, documents, evidence, affidavit or deposi-
tion, or for the purposes of a prosecution for any
oﬁence under this Act; or

of any such particulars to any person acting in, the
execution of this Act .... ..where it is necessary or
desirable to disclose the same to him for the pur-
poses of this Act .... ..; or (b) (c) the substance of any material to an assessee, being
relevant material gathered for the purposes of
making an assessment under section 147(3) [Sec-
tion 23(3)] or under section 148 [Section 23(4)],
without disclosing any information which might
enable the assessee to identify the person to whom
the material relates; or (d) of any such particulars, where the disclosure is oc-
casioned by the lawful employment under this Act
of any process for the service of any notice or the
recovery of any demand; (or (e) of any such particulars to a civil. court in any
suit or proceeding to which Government or 'any
Income-tax authority is a party, which relates to
any matter arising out of any proceeding under
this Act or under any other law for the time being
in force authorising any Income-tax authority to
exercise any powers thereunder; or (f) (i) of any such particulars contained in any ac-
counts, or (ii) of any registered document of which a certiﬁed
copy can be obtained under the provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 , or i (iii) of a balance sheet' or audit report or proﬁ and
lossoccounts led u 17 the Companies Act, , 956,
or any other ct rel ing to companies, 183 Clause 141

l to a civil court in any suit orlproceeding to which (3) {hi (1) (j) of any such particulars relevant to any inquiry (ii)

(1) of such facts. to an authorised ofﬁqer of the Gov- the person who produced the accounts, registered
document, balance sheet, audit report or profit and
loss account, or his representative-in-interest, is a
party, if the particulars, registered document, ba-
lance sheet, audit report, or proﬁt and loss account
are relevant to any matter in issue in such suit or
proceeding; of any such particulars to the Comptroller and Au- [s. 54 (3) (c}
ditor-General of India for the purpose of enabling

him to discharge his functions under the Consti- tution; or

oi any such particulars to any officer apoointed by [5, 54(3) (r;
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or

the Central Board of Revenue to audit income-tax

receipts or refunds; or

of any such particulars, relevant to any inquiry [Se-:. 54 (3)
into the conduct of an ofﬁcial of the Income-tax (S)
Department. to any persons appointed Commis- sioners under the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act,

1850 , or to an otﬁcer otherwise appointed to hold 37 oflB50
such inquiry, or to a Public Service Commission
established under the Constitution, when exercis- ing its functions in relation to any matter arising

out of any such inquiry; or

Es . 5+ . (3)
into a charge of misconduct in connection 'with 35-]
income-tax proceedings against a legal practitioner

or chartered accountant. to the authority referred - to in section 324 (3) [ Section 61(3) ], when exer- cising the functions referred-tlo in that sub-section

.......... .., or ~

of any such particulars by any public servant, [Scc. 54 (3)-
where the disclosure is occasioned by the lawful (bill
exercise by him of his powers under the Indian

Stamp . Act. 1899. to impound an insuﬁiciently 90f 1599

stamped document; or
[ - (>
 5"' 3

ernment of any country outside India which has
entered into an agreement with India for the grant-
ing of relief in respect of or avoidance of double
tax_ation .... .., as may be necessary for the purpose
of enabling such relief or a refund under section
92 [49A] to be given or such avoidance under that
section to be made effective ; or (m) of such facts, to an oﬂicer of a State Government I3'-'€« 5-4. {3}

as may be necessary for the purpose of enabling,'-W
that Government to; levy at realise any tax im- f
posed by it; or ' 3 t *

[New]

 54 (3)
7 of 1878

 54 (3)

[Scc- 54 (3) (m).]

[Sea 54 (3)
(HM

[Sea 54 (3)
(9)-]

[Sea 54 (3) (p).]
31 of 1950

560- 54(4)]

[NW] Section 142 . Saving regar- ding Volun-
tary disclosu- Clauses 14~1-142 (n) of such facts, to an officer of the Central Govern-
ment as may be necessary for the purpose of en-
abling that Government to levy or realise any tax
imposed by it; or (o) of such facts, to any authority exercising powers
under the Sea Customs Act, 1878, or any Central
Act imposing a duty of excise as may be neces-
sary for enabling it duly to exercise such powers;
or (p) of such facts, to any person charged by law with
the duty of inquiring into the qualiﬁcations 'of
electors as may be necessary to establish whether

a a person is or is not entitled to be entered on an
electoral roll; or (q) of so much of such particulars, to the appropriate
authority, as may be necessary to establish whe-
ther a person has or has not been assessed to in-
come-tax in any particular year or years, where
under the provisions of any law for the time be-
ing in force such fact is required to be established;
01' (r) of such particulars to the Reserve Bank of India
as are required by that Bank to enable it to ;com-
pile ﬁnancial statistics of international investment
and balance of payments; or (s) of such information as may be required by any
officer or department of the Central Government
or of a State Government for the purpose qf in-
vestigation into the conduct and affairs of; any
public servant; or (t) of any such particulars to the Custodian of [Eva-
cuee Property appointed under the Administ tion
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 , for the purp e of
enabling him to discharge the duties imposed %upon
him by or under the said Act. '

(4) Nothing in this sectionshall apply to the produc-
tion by a public servant before a court of any document,
declaration or aﬂidavit ﬁled, or the record of any state-
ment or deposition made _in a proceeding under section 181 [25A] or sections 191 to 193 or._ to the giving of evidente by
a public servant in respect thereof. . '

(5) In this section, "public servant" means any public
servant employed in the execution of this Act. Nothing in section 141 [54(1), 54(2) and' 54(3), as re-
duced in preceding section] shall prohibit the voluntary
disclosure of any particulars referred to in sub-section (1)

res by persons of that section, by the person by whom the statement was

making

. [New]

thc made, the return fu
SKECCIIICIH CIC. 'shed, t e, accounts or documen _pro-
duced, the evidence iven it-he affidavit or depo tion
made, as the case ma be. '

i8-5 ~
Clause 143
CHAPTER XIV
PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSMENT

(1) (a) Every person, .......... ..if his total income, or the Section I_4,3
total income of any other person in respect of R°""" °f"1'
which he is assessable under this Act, during °°m°'
the previous year exceeded the maximum [s. 22 0)]
amount which is not chargeable to income-tax
shall furnish, to the Incomegtaa: Officer having
jurisdiction to assess him, on or before the 30th
day of June of each: ﬁnancial year, a return of
his income or the income of; such other person
during the previous year, in the prescribed form
and veriﬁed in the prescribed manner and set- ting forth .......... ..such -other particulars as may
be prescribed: clause (a) to an Income-tan: Officer who has no
jurisdiction to make the essment, it shall be
his duty to forwartl the urn to the Income-
taa: Oﬂicer having jiurisdictibn. _ (2) In the case of any person whd. in the Income-tax ts. 22 (9)1-
Oﬂicer's opinion .......... .., is assessable wider this Act, whe-
ther on his own total income or on theitotal income of any
other person during the previous year, the Income-tax Offi-
cer may before the end of the relevant assessment year ;
serve a notice upon him requiring him to furnish, within i
thirty days from the date of service oﬁ the notice, a return
of his income or the income of such other person during that -year, in the prescribed form and veriﬁed in the prescribed

manner and setting forth ..... other particulars as
may be prescribed .......... Provided that the Incorné-tax Officer may, in his dis-
cretion, extend the date for the delivery of the return. (3) If any person ........... ..has sustained a loss .......... ..in [s.;22 (2-A).
any previous year under the head 'Proﬁts and gains of busi- P3-it-1
ness, profession 'or vocation', and such =1oss or any part there-
of would ordinarily have been carried forward under sec-
tion 73(2) or 74(2) [Sub-section (2) of section 24 ], such per-
son. or the person assessable 'n resp: of the total income
of- such person. shall, if he not be ' ed with a notice

 

h under sub-section (2), .... .. ' h:on.f: before the 3o§h.dq'y
! E --'

E

[s- 22 (3)1

Ls- 22 (5))

Section I
. Return

whom to
signed. [New]

Section I145. _ . provisional receipt of a return, niade un

assessment. make, in a summary; mann ,a provisional assessm_nt of,
2 'J 186 Clauses 143-145

of June of the assessment year or within such further time
as the Income-tax Oﬁicer in any case may allow. a return
of loss in the prescribed form and veriﬁed in the prescribed
manner and containing such other particulars as may be
prescribed; and all the provisions of this Act shall apply as
if it were a return under sub--section (1). (4) If any person has not furnished a return within
the time allowed by or under sub-section (1) or sub--section
(2), or having furnished a return under either of those sub-
sections discovers any omission or Wrong statement therein,
he may furnish a return or a revised return. as the case
may be, at any time before the assessment is made. (5) The prescribed form of the returns referred to in
sub--sections ( 1), (2) and (3) shall, in the case of an assessee
engaged in any business, profession or vocation, require him
to furnish particulars of the location and style of the prin-
cipal place wherein he carries on the business, profession or
vocation and of the branches thereof. the names and ad-
dresses of his partners, if any, in such business, profession
or vocation and the extent of the share of the assessee and
the shares of all such partners in the proﬁts of the busi-
ness, profession or vocation and any branches thereof; The return under section 143 [22(1) or 22(2) or 22(3)]

45: shall be signed and veriﬁ.ed---- (a) in the case of an individual, by the individual him-
self; where the individual is absent from India, by
some person duly authorised by him in this behalf;
and where the individual is mentally incapa 'tated
from attending to his affairs, by his guard 11. or
committee or by any other person competent ;to act
on his behalf; (b) in the case of a Hindu undivided family, by the
Karta, and, where the Karta is absent from India or

is mentally incapacitated from attending to his ,

affairs, by any other adult member of such family; (c) in the case of a company or local authority, by the
principal oiﬁcer thereof; » (d) the case of a firm, by any partner thereof, not be-
mg a minor; ' (e) in the case of any other association, by any member
of the association or the principal oﬁicer thereof;
and (f) in the case of any other person, by that person or
by some person competent to act on his behalf. ( 1) The Income-tax Officer may, at any time aft r the
1' section l43[22], pr ed to 4 : i ~ 187 Clause 145

the tax payable by the assessee, on the basis of his return [s. 2_3B (1),
and the accounts and documents, if any, accompanying carlwr part]
it ................... .. (2) In making any assessment under this section due [at 233 (I).
effect shall be given 190-. 13"" Pam] (a) the allowance referred to in section 32(2) [para (b)
of the proviso to section 10(2)(vi)], and (b) any loss carried forward under section 73(2) or 74

<_2) [24(2>1. (3) A partner of a ﬁrm may 'be provisionally assessed [s. 23 B (2)]
under sub-section (1) in respect of his share in the income
of the ﬁrm, if its return has been received, even if the
return of the partner himself has not been received. (4) A ﬁrm may be provisionally assessed under sub- [=- 23 3 (3)1
section (1) as an unregistered ﬁrm, except in the following
cases, where it shall be assessed as a registered firm- (a) where the firm was assessed as a registered ﬁrm for [Ncw. see
the latest assessment year for which its assessment N°'iﬁ¢8ti°n
has been completed, and it has before the date 1I"°'33:ff
prescribed for the purposes of this clause, ﬁled its 52,433,, of
application for registration or declaration under Finhncc,
section 191(7) [section for declaration] for the as- R.¢*5=I}"°
sessmgnt year for which the provisional assessment D"'"'°"-1
is to be ma e; (b) where no regular assessment has been made on the
ﬁrm for any assessment year preceding the assess-
ment year for which the provisional' assessment is
to be made, and the firm has, before the date pres-
cribed for the purposes of this clause, filed its appli-
cation for registration, or declaration as aforesaid,
for the assessment year for which the provisional
assessment is to be made. (5) After a regular assessment hw been made .... ..any [3, ,3 B (7)

amount paid' or deemed to have been paid towards the pro-
visional assessment made under sub-section (1) shall be
deemed to have been paid towfards the regular assessment;
andwhere the amount paid or deemed "to have been paid
towards the provisional assessment exceeds the amount pay-
able under the regular assessment, the excess shall be re-
funded to the assessee. (6) Nothing d-one or suffered by reason or in consequ- [s- 23 B (8)1
ence of any provisional assessment made under this section
shall prejudice the determination, on- the merits, of any ,
issue which may arise in the tourse of 'the regular assess-
ment ........ .. 5 4

13-1 Law Com.I58

i

:0

[=- 23 13 (4)1 Section 14 .6. Enquiry be- fore asses- sment. Is~ 22 (4)]

[New]

[New] Section 1 47 Assessment. [=- 23 0)]

[s- 23 ml 188 Clauses 145-147

(7) There shall be no right of appeal against a provi-
sional assessment made under sub-section (1). (1) For the purpose of making an assessment under this
Act, the Income-tax Ofﬁcer may serve on any person who
has made a return under section 143(1) [22(1)] or section
143(3) [22(2A)] or upon whom a ﬁotice has been served
under se_ct'1on 143(2) [22(2)] (whether a return has been
made or not), a notice requiring him, on a date to be there-
in speciﬁed,-- (i) to produce, or cause to be produced, such accounts
or documents as the Income-tax Ofﬁcer may require,
or (ii) to furnish in writing and veriﬁed in the prescribed
manner information in such form and on such
points or matters (including a statement of all as-
sets and liabilities of the assessee, whether inclu-
ded in the accounts or not) as the Income-tax Offi-
cer may require : . Provided that the previous approval of the Commis-
sioner shall be obtained before requiring the assessee to
furnish a statement of all assets and liabilities not included
in the accounts: ment is made under section 148 [s. 23(4), part regarding best
judgment assessment], be given an opportunity of rebutting
the substance of any material gathered on the basis of any
enquiry under sub-section (2) and proposed to be utilised-
for the purpose of the assessment. (1) Where a return has been made under section 143 [22] and the Income-tax Officer is satisﬁed without requir-
ing the presence of the assessee or the production by him
of any evidence that the retum .......... .. is correct and§com-
plete, he shall assess the total income or loss of the assessee,
and shall determine the sum payable by him or refundable
to him on the basis of such return. '

(2) Where a return has been made under section 143 [22] but the Income-tax Oﬂicer is not satisﬁed without re-
quiring the presence of the person who made the return or
the production of evidence thgat the return ............. cor-
rect and complete, h shall 'r,ve on such person a otice
requiring him, on a ante to e therein speciﬁed, eit er to

E i ,= L 189 Clauses 147-149

attend at thellncome-tax Ofﬁcer's ofﬁce or to produce, or
to cause to be there produced, any evidence on which such
person may rely in support of the return. (3) On the day speciﬁed in-the notice issued under sub- [s. 23 (3)]
section (2), or as soon afterwards as may be, the Income-tax
Officer, after hearing such evidence as such person may pro-
duce and such other evidence as the Income-tax'Ofﬁcer may
require, on speciﬁed points, and after taking into account
all relevant material which the Income-tax Officer has
gathered and which the Income-tax Officer is competent to
take into account, shall, by an order in writing, assess the
total income or loss of the assessee, and determine the sum
payable by him or refundable to him on the basis of such
assessment. (1) If any Person'' Section 148 . (a) fails to make the return reguired by any notice 3°" J"dS'
given under section 143 ( ), [sub-section (2) 0 mm. section 22 ] and has not made a return or a revised -
return under section 143(4) [sub-section (3) of sec- [5- .23 (4) - main para,
non 22]! or earlier part (b) fails to comply with all the terms of a notice is-
sued under section 146(1) [sub-section (4) of sec-
tion 22], or (c) having made a return, fails to comply with all the
terms of a notice issued under section 147 [section
re: assessment under 23(1) (2) & 23(3)],

the Income-tax Officer, after taking into account all rele-
vant material which the Income-tax Officer has gathered
and which the Income-tax Oﬁicer is competent to take into
account, shall make the assessment of the total income or
loss to the best of his judgment and determine the sum
payable by the assessee or refundable to the assessee on
the basis of such assessment. (2) The Income-tax Officer shall, in every order under [NC-W]
sub-section (1), refer to the material on the basis of which
the assessment is made. f ment. Assess- For the purposes oflsections 147 and 148, [two preced- section :49. ing sections regarding assessment and best judgment] the "R lcyagt

relevant material which the Income-tax Officer is compe- '""l°"a'

gent to take into account in respect of an assessee inclu- [Ndw]
es---- (a) market conditions in the previous year of the trade
in which the assessee -was engaged in the previous
year, (b) rates of proﬁts disclosed by the accounts of other
persons engaged in the same ﬁne of trade, and (c) rates of proﬁts dete ned in 7 1 case of the asses-
see in assessments f earlier subsequent years. Section I 50-
Mcthod of
accounting. [s. 13, main
para]

[s. 13, Provi- so, part]

[s. 13, Provi- so, part.] Section 151 . Reopening of
assessment at
the instance
of the asses- 566.

[ S. 27 ] Section 152 . Income es- caping assess- mcnt. [s- 34
first
clause

part.]

£5. rst
clause
part] . (I)~
para,

(3') 2

34 0)'
para,

(13). \ ' 190
Clauses 150-152

(1) Income ....... .. chargeable under the head "Proﬁts
and gains of business, profession or vocation" or "Income
from other sources" shall be computed .... .. in accordance
with the method of accounting regularly employed by the
assessee: . ,

Provided that, if, though the accounts are correct and
complete to the satisfaction of the Income-tax Officer, the
method employed is such that, in the opinion of the In-
come-tax Officer, the income ....... .. cannot properly be de-
duced therefrom, then the computation shall be made upon
such basis and in such manner as the Income-tax Oiﬁcer
may determine. (2) Where the Income-tax Oﬂicer is not satisﬁed about
the correctness or the com leteness of the accounts of the
assessee, or where no met 0d of accounting has been re-
gularly employed by the assessee, the Income-tax Oﬂicer
may make an assessment in the manner provided in sec-
tion 148 [23(4) main para, part regarding best judgment
assessment]. \

Where an assessee assessed under section 148 [23(4)]
makes an application to the Income-tax Officer, within
one month from the service of a notice of demand issued
in consequence of the assessment, for cancellation of the
assessment on the ground--- (i) that he was prevented by suﬂicient cause from
making the return required by section 143 [22],
or (ii) that he did not receive the notice issued under
section 146(1) [22(4)] or section 147 [23(2)], or (iii) that he had not a reasonable opportunity to comply,
or was prevented by sufﬁcient cause from comply-
ing, with the terms of the ....... .. notices referred
to in clause (ii), -- the Income-tax Officer shall, if satisﬁed about the exis- tence of such ground, cancel the assessment and proceed

to make a fresh assessment in 'accordance with the provi- sions of sections 147 and 148 [ section 23 ]
If-- (a) the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe; that
by reason of the omission or failure on the part of
an assessee to make a return of his income tmder section 143 [22] for any assessment year or to dis-
close fully and truly all material facts necessary
for his assessment for that year, income .... .. char- geable to tax has escaped assessment for that year,
or (b) notwithstanding that there has been no omission
or failure as mentioned in clause (a) on the part
of the assessee, the Income-tax Oﬁicer has in§con-
sequence of informatipn in his possession reason

I91
Clauses 152-155

to believe that income . .. chargeable to tax
has escaped assessment for any assessment year. . . . . . . . . . . .. he may, subject to the provisions of sections 153 to 159 [9- 34
[other sections in group dealing with escaped in- 22"]
come] assess or reassess such income ....... .. or recompute P

the loss or the depreciation allowance, as the case may be, -
for the assessment year concerned (hereafter in sections
153 to 159 [other sections in the group for escaped income]
referred to as the relevant assessment year). para 0 Ea:planation.---Production before the Income-tax Ofﬁ- [s. 4 (1)
cer of account books or other evidence from which mate- Expll
rial evidence could with due diligence have been discover-
ed by the Income-tax Officer will not necessarily amount
to disclosure within the meaning of this section.' ............ .. ' For the purposes of section 152 [section regarding in- Section :53.
come escaping assessment], the following shall also be "1I!°°m'=
deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has h';_
escaped assessment, namely---- sessmcnt" cipal officer thereof; a notice containing all or any of the ==Sm¢nt~
requirements which may be included in a notice under [:1 34 (1), section 143(2) [ section 22(2) ]; and the provisions of this '°¢°"d P3"-
Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the 94"]
notice were a notice issued under that sub-section. (2) The Income-tax Oﬂicer shall, before issuing any [so 34 (I)

notice under this section, record his reasons for doing so... must PE§i")'
' part.) \

(1) The notice under section 154 [section regarding So'ction_ 355.
notice] may, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)'f"m°'1!m" modiﬁed] 0 II of 1922

[S' (I): [st
Prov. Cl. (ii)

earlier half] '
[s- 34 (I)
second para,
part]

[s~ 34
2nd l'rov.] Section 156 . Provision for
cases where
assessment is
in pursuance
of an order
on appeal etc_

[s- 34 <3)»
2nd Prov. latter half,
part Section 157 . Sanction for
issue of
notice. [s. 34, (i), ist

Prov. . (iii), part]

(1)5. Clauses 155-157

been made the subject of excessive relief under
this Act, or the loss or depreciation allowance
which has been computed in excess, amounts to
or is likely to amount to ﬁfty thousand "upees
or more for the relevant assessment year; within a period of sixteen years fromthe end
of the relevant assessment year, where the case
does not fall under sub-clause (i) of this clause
and the income chargeable to tax which has
escaped assessment or has been under-assessed
or assessed at too low a rate or has been made
the subject of excessive relief under this Act
or under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 , or the
loss or depreciation allowance which has been
computed in excess under this Act or under the
said Act, amounts to or is likely to amount to
one lakh of rupees or more in the aggregate for
the sixteen assessment years (including assess-
ment years under the said Act) immediately pre-
ceding the assessment year in which such notice
is issued; '

within a period of eight years from the end of
the relevant assessment year, in any other case; (b) in cases falling under clause (b) of section 152 [section regarding income escaping assessment],
within a period of four years from the end of the
relevant assessment year. (2) .... ..If the person on whom a notice under section
154 [section re: notice] is to be served is a person tredted
as the agent of a non-resident under section 173 [s.,43]
and the assessment or reassessment to be made in pursu-
ance of the notice is to be made on him as agent of such
non-resident, the notice shall not be issued after the ex-
piry of a' period of two years from the end of the relevant
assessment year. '

Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section; (1)
or sub-section (2) of section 155 [preceding section], :but
subject to the provisions of section 157 , [section regar ing
sanction], the notice under section 154 [section regar ing
notice] may be issued at any time for the purpose of mak-
ing an assessment or re-assessment on the assessee or 'any
person in consequence of or to give effect to any ﬁnding
or direction contained in an order under section 259 , 3263 269 , 271 , or 272 [ section 31 , 33 , 33A , 33B , 66 or 66A] passed
in the case of the assessee. ' (ii) (iii)

(1) No notice shall be issued under section 154 [sec- tion regarding notice] after the expiry of eight years from
the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Gen-
tral Board of Revenue .... .. is satisﬁed on the reasons re- ; corded by the Income-ma: that ittis a ﬁt case or

the issue of such notice} 193 Clauses 157-160

(2) No notice shall be issued under section 154 [ section 34 (I) ..lSt _

regarding notice] after the expiry of four years from the 'Um'

end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commis-
sioner is satisﬁed on the reasons recorded by the Income-
tax Officer that it is a ﬁt case for the issue of such notice. (1) In an assessment or re-«assessment made under Section 158 ' section 152 [section regarding income escaping assessment], 0.93" Pm'
the tax shall be chargeable at the rate or rates at which it '"s'°"s
would have been charged had the income .... ..not escaped as- ['r'o5:4](') 2"'
sessment or full assessment, as. the case may be. P '

(2) Where an assessment is reopened in circumsta_n-- [8- 34 (2)1
ces falling under clause (b) of section 152 [section regard-
ing income escaping assessment], the assessee may, if he
has not impugned any part of the original assessment order
for that year either under sections 254 to 256 [30] or under section 272 [33A], claim that the proceedings under section
152 [section regarding income escaping assessment] shall be
dropped on his showing that he had been assessed on an
amount or to a sum not lower than what he would be right-
ly liable for even if the items alleged to have escaped asses-
sment had been taken into account, or the assessment or
computation had been properly made: section 280(1) (c) [s. 28(1) (c)]; or 34- 3): "W" _ pa , words
"o cr than
_ _ . . applies"). (c)]the expiry of one year from the date of the ﬁling [NW]
of a return or a revised return under section 143
(4) [23(3)]; whichever is latest. (2)' No order of assessment or re--assessment shall be [NW]
made under section 152 [section re :=-income escaping as- ,
sessment]-- =' _ i -, ' ' (a) where the assessrnewit or 1-e+1fsessment is to be

(3),
para,

[=- , 34

main

part]

[s. [St

34 (3),

Prov.]

[s- 34 (3). and Prov. earlier half]
is. 34 (3). ov

2nd . latter half,

part]

[s. 5 (7C): Explanation 1.-- ....... .. In computing the period of ii-
mitation for the purposes of this section, the time talien in
reopening the whole or any part of the proceedin 101- in
giving an opportunity to the assessee to be rehear under section 133 , Proviso [5 (7C) 1st Prov.], or any period dur-
ing which the assessment proceeding is stayed by an order
or injunction of any court, shall be excluded. Explanation 2.---Where, by an order under section 259 , 263 , 269 , 271 or 272, [31 section 33 , section 33A , section
33B , section 66 or section 66A] any income is excluded
from the total income of the assessee for an assessment
year, then, an assessment of such income for another as-
sessment 'year shall, for the purposes of section 156 and
this section [34(3), 2nd Proviso, latter half both parts],
be deemed to be one made in consequence of or to give

eﬁect to any ﬁnding or direction contained in the said
order. Explanation 3.--Where, by an order under section 259 , 263 , 2 .69, 271 or 272, [31, section 33 , section 33A , section 33B , section 66 or section' 66A] any income is ex-
cluded from the total. income of one person and heldto be
the income of another person, then an assessment of such
income on such othergperson, hall, for the purposes sec-
tion 156 and this seetion [ (3), 2nd Proviso, latte half 195 Clauses V160-161

both parts] be deemed to be one made in consequence of
or to give etfect to any ﬁnding or direction contained in
the said order, provided such other person was given an
opportunity of being heard before the said order was
passed. (1) With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent Section' 16:. _ Reotiﬁcation
from the record of mimkc (a) the Income-tax Oﬁicer may amend any order of |_s. .35 (1),
assessment or of refund or any other order, passed mam Para»
by him.' Pm] (b) the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may amend [s. 35 (1)'
any order passed by him in appeal under section main para'
259 [31]; ' Pm] (c) the Commissioner may amend any order passed by [.. 35 (1),
him in revision under section 272 [33A] or section main Para. 271 [33B]. Pm]
. (2) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the [,_ 35 m
authority concerned-- main para (a) may make an amendment Imder sub-section (1) P
of its own motion, and (b) shall make such amendment for rectifying any
. such mistake which has been brought to its notice
by the assessee. (3) An amendment which has the eﬁect of enhancing [-5- 35 (I). m

an assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise increas- P'°'-1

ing the liability of the assessee, shall' not be made under

this section unless the authority concerned has given no- tice to the assessee of its intention so 120 do and has allow- ed the assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard. (4) Where an amendment is made under this section, [Neil]
an order shall be passed in writing by the Income-tax
authority concerned. '

(5) Where any such amendment has the effect of re-[s- 35 (§)]
ducing the assessment, the Income-tax Officer shall make
any refund which may be due to such assessee. (6) Where any such amendment has the effect of en- [3, 35 (4)1
hancing the assessment or reducing' a_ refund already _ *
made, the Income-tax Ofﬁcer shall serve on the assessee
a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the
sum payable, and such notice of demand shall be deemed
to be issued under section 163 [ section 29 ], and the provi-
sions of this Act shall apply accordingly. (7) Save as otherwise provided in section 162 or sec- [seqa 35 (1),
tion 193 (4), [s. 35(5) to 35(10) or see. re: cancellation ofmmﬁ P3"-
registration], no amendment under t is section shall be pm]
made after the expiry of four; years am the date of the
order sought to be amended. 2 1 Section 162 . other amend- mcnts

[s- 35 (5)1

[New]

[s- 35 (3)1 196 Clause 162

(1) Where in respect of any completed assessment of
a partner in a ﬁrm it is found- (a) on the assessment or reassessment of the ﬁrm, or (b) on any reduction or enhancement made in the in-
come of the ﬁrm under section 161(1) , 259 , 263 , 269 , 271 or 272, [ section 31 , section 33 , section 33A , section 33B , section 66 , section 66A -or section 35(1) ],

that the share of the partner in the income of the ﬁrm has
not been included in the assessment of the partner or, if
included, is not correct, the Income-tax Oﬂicer may amend
the order of assessment of the partner with a view to the
inclusion of the share in the assessment or the correction
thereof, as the case may be; and the provisions of - ection
161 [35(1) to (4)] shall, mutatis-mutandis, apply t ereto,
the period of four years speciﬁed in sub-section (7) of
that section being recluoned from the date of the ﬁnal order
passed in the case of the ﬁrm. (2) Where in respect of any completed assessment of a
member 0)' an association of persons it is found- ia) on the assessment or re-assessment of the associa-
tion, or (b) on any reduction or enhancement made in t e in-
come of the association under section 161 (1 , 259, 263. 269. 271 or 272, [ section 31 , section 33 , section

33A , section 33B , section 66 , section 66A or spcti-on

35(1)} i

that the share of the member in the income of the ; asso-
ciation has not been included in the assessment of the E'mem-
be)" or, if included, is not correct, the Income-taa: er
may amend the order 0')' assessment of the member ith a
view to the inclusion of the share in the assessment 7' the
correction thereof, as the case may be; and the prquisi in of section 161 [35(1) to (4)] shall, mutatis-mutandis, pply
thereto, the period of four years specified in sub-secti (7)
of that section_being reckoned from the date of theg final
order passed in the case of the association : z

>

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall iaﬁect
the provisions of section 87 , clause (v) [14(2)(b)]. '

(3) Where, as a result of proceedings initiated nder
clause (a) of section 152 , [section corresponding to exvsting section 34(1) and (2)] ' ......................... .. a ﬁrm or an;asso-
ciation of persons is assessed orreassessed .......... .., and
the Income-tax Otﬁcer concerned is of opinion that it is
necessary to compute or recompute the total income of a
partner in the ﬁrm or a mem er of the association oligar-
sons, ............. .. as the case 1' be, the Income-tax G cer
may proceed to compttte or r pute the total income' and

I . E ? \

Clause 162

determine the sum payable on the basis of such computation - or recomputation and make the necessary amendment; and

the provisions of section 161 [35(_1) to (4)] shall mutatis-
mutandis apply thereto, the period of four years speciﬁed
in sub-section (7) of that section being reckoned from the
date of the ﬁnal order passed in the case of the ﬁrm or
association, ................ .. as the case may be. (4) Where the Income-tax Officer is satisﬁed that the [S- 35(9)]

income-tax payable by a company on its proﬁts and gains
out of which the company has declared a dividend, has not
been paid within three years after the ﬁnancial year in
which the dividend was declared -or within one year after
the ﬁnancial year in which the assessment of the company
for the assessment year concerned was made, whichever is
later, the amount of income-tax which a shareholder of the
company is deemed himself to have paid in respect of such
dividend under section 246 [49B], or the amount for which
credit is due to him under section 246 [sub-section (5) of section 18 ] in respect of such dividend,'sha1l be deemed to
have been wrongly computed; and the Income--tax Oﬁicer
may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, pro-
ceed to recompute such amount by reducing it in the same
proportion as the amount of income-tax remaining unpaid
by the company bears to the amount of income-tax'payable
by it on such proﬁts and gains, and make the necessary
amendment: ............. .. and the provisions of section 161 [35(1) to (4)] shall mutatis mutandis apply thereto, the pe-
riod of four years speciﬁed in sub-section (7) of that section
being reckoned from the date on which the period of three
years aforesaid has expired or the date on which the period
of one year aforesaid has expired, whichever is later. (5) Where an allowance by way of development rebate [1 35

has been made wholly or partly to an éassessee in respect
of a ship, machinery or plant in any assessment year under section 33 [clause (vib) of subsection (2) of section 10 ],
and subsequently at any time before the expiry of ten years
from the end of the previous year in which the ship was ac-
quired or the machinery or plant was installed- (i) the ship, machinery or plant is sold or otherwise

transferred by the assessee to any person other than
the Government: or (ii) the assessee utilises the amount credited to _the
reserve account under the said section read with section 34 [section for conditions]- (a) for distribution by way of dividends or proﬁts; or (b) for remittance outside India as proﬁts or for the
creation of any asset outside India; or

(C) for any other purposekwhich " snot a purpose of
the business of the un rtakin _ a

(")1 198 Clauses 162-166

the development rebate originally allowed shall be deemed
to have been wrongly allowed, and the Income-tax Ofﬁcer
may, notwithstanding anything contained -in this Act, .... ..
....... .. recompute the total income of the assessee for the
relevant previous year and make the necessary amendment;
and the provisions of section 161 [s. 35(1) to (4)] shall, muta-
tis mutandis, apply thereto, the period of four years speciﬁed'
in sub-section (7) of that section being reckoned from the
end of the previous year in which the transfer takes place
or the money is so utilised. [NW] (6) Where any such debt or part (Of debt as is referred
to in section 36(6)(i) [sub-clause (i) of clause (6) of secti-on
relating to deductions from business] is written 011' as irre-
coverable in the accounts of the assessee for a previous year,
and the Income-tax Oﬂicer is satisﬁed that such debt or
part thereof became a bad debt in an earlier previous year,
the Income-tax Oﬂicer may, notwithstanding anything con-
tained in this Act, allow such debt or part of debt as a
deduction for such earlier previous year, and recompute the
total income of the assessee for such earlier previous year
and make the necessary amendment; and the provisions of section 161 [35(1) to (4)] shall, mutatis mutandis,: apply
thereto, the period of four years speciﬁed in sub-section (7)
of that section being reckoned from the end of the previous
year in which the debt is actually written oﬂ' as irrecover- able. Section 163- When any tax, penalty or interest is due in consequence
§°"°°d ''f of any order passed under or in pursuance of this Act, the
"m" ' Income-tax Officer shall serve upon the assessee ..; .... .. a
I" 29] notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the
sum so payable. section ,54_ When, in the course of the assessment of the total in-
Intimation of come of any assessee, it is established that a loss .......... ..
1059- has taken place which the assessee is entitled to have carri- [s- 24 (3)] ed forward and set off under the provisions of section 73(2) , 74(2) or 75(2) [24(2) (2B)], the Income-tax Officer shall
notify to the assessee by an order in writing the amount of
the loss as computed by him for the purposes of section 73
(2) , 74(2) or 75(2) [24(2), (2B)]. Section _x65. Whenever a registered ﬁrm is assessed, or an unregister-
1'""'""'°'t' ed ﬁrm is assessed under the provisions of_ section 190(b) 2 ';f:'m°" [23(5)(b)], the Income-tax Officer shall notify to the ﬁrm
6 ] by an order in writing the amount of its total income ....... ..
B' 23 ( ) assessed and the apportionment thereof between the several
partners. . Section 166 . (1) The person responsible for paying any interest,
Information not being "Interest on securities", shall, on or before the
3' '°'"""'*- ﬁfteenth day of June in each year, furnish to the Income- [8- 20A and tax Ofﬁcer having jurisdiction to assess him, a return, in . fax?' 4" & the prescribed formdand veriﬁed in the prescribed manner,

of the names and a dresses pf all persons to whomiduring

I 199 Clauses 166-167

the previous ﬁnancial year he has paid interest or aggregate
interest exceeding such amount, not being less than four
hundred rupees, as may be prescribed in this behalf, to-
gether with the amount paid to each such person. (2) The prescribed person in the case of every Gov-- [s_ 2,_]
ernment office, and the principal officer or the prescribed

person in the case of every local authority, company or

other public body or association, and every" private employer
shall prepare. and within thirty days from the 31st day of - March in each year, deliver or cause to be delivered to the

Income-tax Oﬁicer in the prescribed form and veriﬁed in
the prescribed manner, a return in writing shoWing---- (a) the name and, so far 3 it is known, the address,
of every person who was receiving on the 31st day
of March, or has received or to whom was due
during the year ending that date, from the Govern-
ment, the authority, company, body, association or
private employer, as the case may be, any income
chargeable under the head "Salaries" of such
amount as may be prescribed; - (b) the amount of the income so received by or so du
to each such person, and the time or times at
which the same was paid or due, as the case may
be; (c) the amount deducted in respect of income~tax and
super-tax from the income of each such person. (3) Where an employer deducts from the emoluments [, 53¢}

paid to an employee or pays on his behalf any contribu-
tions of that employee to an approved superannuation
fund, he shall include all such deductions or payments
in the return which he is required to furnish under sub-
section (2), as provided by section 314 [58T]. (4) The principal oﬁicer ofevery company which is an [,_ ,9A1
Indian company or a company which has made such effec-
tive arrangements as may be prescribed for the declara-
tion and payment of dividends in India shall, on or before
the 15th day of June in each year, furnish to the rescribed '
officer a return in the prescribed form 'and veri ed in the
prescribed manner of the names and of the addresses, as
entered in the register of shareholders maintained by the
company, of the shareholders to whom a dividend or aggre-
gate dividends exceeding such amount may be prescribed
in this behalf has or have been distributed during the pre- ceding year and of the amount so distributed to each share-
holder. The principal ofﬁcer of every company shall, at the Section :67.
time of distribution of dividends, furnish to every person Ceftiﬁvatebv
receiving a dividend a certiﬁcate to the effect that the :§;"l_;P::]';,m'°
company has paid or will pay income-tax or that no income- me, -
tax is payable (as the case may be) on proﬁts which are divi ndl.
being distributed and specifying such er particulars as [., 2
may be prescribed. - i ' ' Section 168 . Legal repre- sentatives. [s- 243 (1),
part]

z[3i«iisB>i2)'

[New]

[New]

Is- 24 B (I). pm]

IS- 943 (I). 13.4"] 200 Clause 168
CHAPTER XV
LIABILITY IN SPECIAL CASES

A----Legal representatives. (1) Where a person dies, his ................ ..legal repre-
sentative shall be liable to pay any tax, penalty or other
sum which the deceased would have been liable to pay if
he had not died, in the like manner and to the same extent
as the deceased. (2) For the purpose of making an assessment (includ-
ing an assessment under section 152 [ section 34 ] ) of the in-
come of the deceased and for the purpose of levying any
tax, penalty or other sum in the hands of the legal repre-
sentative in accordance with the provisions of sub--section

(1)): tinued against the legal representative from the
stage at which it stood on the date of the death of
the deceased; : ly. '

(3) The legal representative of the deceased shall, for
the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be an assessce. (4) The provisions of sub-section (3) of section 170 [section relating to liability ofrepresentative assesse , sub-
section (3)], section 171 [new section regarding ri ht of
representative assessee to recover tax paid] secti 172,
[new section providing when representative asse ee is
personally liable] and section 176 [new section rela 'ng to
remedies against properties in case of representati e as-
sessee] shall, so far as may be and to the extent to hich
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this sec-
tion, apply in relation to a representative assesseeg

(5) The liability of a legal representative under this
section shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), be
limited to the extent to which the estate is capable of meet-
ing the liability. (6) In this Chapter, "legal representative" includes an
executor or adminisvtatnr. " ,. Clauses 169-170

B----Representative assessees--General provisions. see means-- 'fRepresenta- _ _ _ . . tlve assessee. (1) in respect of the income of a non-resident specified [$420) main
in section 9(1) [ Section 42(1) , mam para, earlier para, latter
part], the agent of the non-resident, including a per- half» Part]
son who is treated as such under section 173 [43]; (ii) in respect of income of a minor, lunatic or idiot, the [s. 4.0 (u),
guardian or committee or manager or trustee who part]
is entitled to receive or is in receipt of such income
on behalf of such minor, lunatic or idiot; (iii) in respect of income ......................... .. which the [s- _4l (1): duly executed instrument in writing whether tes- Pm]
tamentary or otherwise (including any Wakf deed
which is valid under the Mussalman Wakf Valid-
ing Act, 1913) receive or are entitled to receive on 6of!9I3
behalf of any person, ................ .. such trustee or
trustees ................ .. (2) Every representative assessee shall be deemed to {New-of. s. 42
be an assessee for the purposes of this Act. ')1

(1) Every representative assessee, as regards the in- Section :70.
come in respect of which he is a representative assessee, Liability of
shall be subject to the same duties, responsibilities and lia- ;§,';'¢'°"'"' V
bilities as if the income were income received by or accru- I "s°"°°'
ing to or in favour of him beneﬁcially, and shall be liable £5'; S)'InP;';
to assessment in his own name in respect of that income; pg, ' pm,
but any such assessment shall be deembd to be made upon 5.4.2 I),main
him in his representative capacity onl 1', and the tax shall, Pam 13"" resident, or _ 203 Clauses 173-174 (c) through whom the non-resident is in receipt of any

income, .................. ., ..... .. or (d) who is the trustee of the non-resident ............. .. : [s. 40 (2))

Provided that a broker in India who .......... .., in res- [s.43,» lst
pect of any transactions, does not ................ .. deal directly P'°"-1
with or on behalf of a non-resident principal but deals with
or through a non-resident broker ................ .. shall not.be

deemed to be an agent under this section in respect of such
transactions, if the following conditions are fulﬁlled, name-
ly :-- sactions in the ordinary course of his business and
not as a principal. . E.7:planation.----A person, whether a resident or a non- [s.4_-,,I-'.xpIn.]
resident, who acquires ...................... .. whether by sale, A 1
exchange, ...................... .. transfer or relinquishment, a
capital asset in India from a non-resident shall, for the pur-
poses of charging to tax the capital gain arising from such
sale, exchange, ................ .. transfer or relinquishment, be
deemed to have a business connection, within the meaning S
of this section, with such non-resident. . (2) .......... .. No person shall be treated as the agent 3.43, 2nd
of a non-resident ................... .. unless he has had an' oppor- p,°._]
tunity of being heard by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer as to his
liability to be treated as such. ................... .. Where any incomexin respect of which See on :74.
the persons mentioned in section 169 1 ) (iii) and (iv), [S. Ch eof tax
41(1) Part, as embodied in the clauses , ling with Court of '"f "ih¥°
Wards etc. and trustees in the newly added section deﬁning "° °"'
representative assessee] are liable as éepresentative asses- [5 2 m m
sees, or any part thereof, is not speciﬁcally receivable on p,',°'$t ,a;.1i,,,.
behalf of any one person, or where thefindividual shares of half,: part]
the persons on whose behalf sudh income or such part there-
of is receivable (which persons are herleinafter in this sec-
tion referred to as the beneficiaries) are indeterminate or

unknown,-- * (a) income-taa: shall be charged-- ' (i) ................... .. as if such incoriie .... .. or such [s.4i (If, us: ' ' ﬁcdli
as the Income-tax Oﬂicer may direct; and é
14-] Law Com /58. ' . " ' 204 Clauses 174-178

[New] (b) super-tax shall be charged as if such income or
J such part thereof were the total income of an asso-
ciation-of persons.»

%;°s'ei°"'~ ................ .. Where part only of the income ................ .. pan of mm of a trust is chargeable under this Act, that proportion only
income is of the income, ................... receivable by a beneﬁciary

chargeable. from the trust which the part so chargeable bears to the

[$.41 (1) 2nd whole income ................ .. of,the trust shall be deemed to
PI'°V- have been derived from that part. D--Representative assessees--General. Secti°(rl1_I76- _The Income-tax Oﬂicer shall have the same remedies
§g°;':St'°;w_ against all property of any kind vested in or under the con-
pmyin cases trol or management of any representative assessee as he
of xepresema- would have against the property of any person liable to pay

fivc assessew any tax, and in as full and ample a manner.
[New]

lS)°_¢ti°" 177- Nothing in the foregoing sections in this Chapter shall
 prevent either the direct assessment of the person on whose
mi behalf income .......... ..therein referred to is receivable, or
[MI (2) and the recovery from such person of the tax payable in respect s.4 .2(1), main Of such income .......... .. '

para, latter

:':::nde,f']"" ' E------Executors. K Section 178 . (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, the income of the
Ex<=°"l°r-S estate of a deceased person shall be chargeable to tax in the
[New] hands of the executor,- (a) if there is only one executor, then as if the executor
were an individual, or (b) if there are more than one executor, then as if the
executors were an association of persons. (2) -The assessment of an. executor under this section
shall be made separately ;from any assessment; that
may be made on him in respect of his own income. g
, (3) Separate assessments shall be made under th sec- tion on the total income of each completed previous y ar or
part thereof as is included i ' the period from the
the death to the date of co ete distribution to the
ciaries of the estate according to their several inter

te of
eneﬁ- sts. (4) In computingtthe total income of any prev' year
under this section, a inco ' of the estate of that pr ious

year distributed to, I applie to the beneﬁt of, an bene-
ﬁciary of the estate during that previous year s ll be
excluded; but the income so excluded shall be inclu d in
the total income of the previous year of such beneﬁ ry. Explanation.--In this section, "executor" includes an
administrator or other person administering the estate of a
,deceased person. 'I

I
r 205 Clauses 179-180

The provisions of section 171 [New section' authorising S<2°ti°n 179.
a representative assessee to recover tax paid from the prin- exfcum for
cipal] shall, mutatis--mutand_is, apply in the case_ of an exe-- ,e¢ov¢,. tax
cutor in respect of tax paid or payable by him as they paid.
apply in the case of a representative assessee. . [New]

F---Succession to business, profession or vocation. (1) Where a person carrying on any business, profes- Section; :80.
sion or vocation, (such person hereinafter in this section 5 "".°°"'°" '°
being referred to as the predecessor) has been succeeded °:';f;fji:c
therein by another person (hereinafter in this section refer- thgnondmh
red to as the successor) who continues to carry on that busi- [s. _ 26(2),
ness, profession or vocation, the predecessor and the succes- mam Pm]
sor shall. subject to the prov'sions of sections 13(2) , 13(3) , 91(1) and 100 [ section 25(4) ] each be assessed in respect of
his actual share, if any, of the income ................... ..of the
previous year, that is to say ,-- (a) the predecessor shall be assessed in respect of the
income of the previous year upto the date of succes- _
sion, and l (b) the successor shall be assessed in respect of the in-
come of the previous year after'. the date of succes-
sion. '

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section [s- 26(f2).
(1), when the predecessor carinot [be lound, the. assessment °'""'°" sion or for the previous year A ceding that year, assessed on
the predecessor. cannot be re vered rbm him, it shall be r
payable by and recoverable rom t afsuccessor, and the
successor shall "be entitled to recover' rbm the predecessor
the amount of any tax so pdid. I

J

(4) .......... ..Where any ..... ..',....business, profession or vo- l*- 25-4(2)»,
cation ................... ..carried oniby a ; du undivided family 'If 1 P""'
............. ..is succeeded to, and isimulta. _ ' ly with the suc-- ,
cession or after the succession there» ' been a partition
of the joint family propert betwe the members or
groups of members, the tax d in re ' '
profession or vocation succee ed to j; o the date of suc-
cession shall be assessed and iiecover in the manner pro-
vided in section 181(4) and 1 (6) [s ' 'on 25A(2), remain-
ing part, as embodied in secti 'on tion], but without
prejudice to the provisions oft is se ' i 206 Clause 181

G--Partition. (1) .......... ..A Hindu family hitherto assessed as undivi-
afmpmition ded .......... ..shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act,

of a Hindu to continue to be a Hindu undivided family, except where

tgmd_ilvided and in so far as a ﬁnding of partition has been given under
am: . ' ' ' ~ - [s_ 25YA(3)} this section in respect of the Hindu family. [s. 25A(1), (2) Where, at the time of making an assessment under

"'"_i." Pa" section 147 or 148 [23], it is claimed by or on behalf of
'5" '°' Pm] any member of a Hindu family .......... ..assessed as undivid-
ed that a partition. whether total or partial, has taken place
among the members of such family, the Income--tax Ofﬁcer
[S- 25A(I).- shall make an inquiry thereinto .......... ..after giving notice
I"°"'] of the inquiry to all the members of the family. ls-_ 25-4(1)» (3) On the completion of the inquiry, the Income-tam

 P333' Officer shall record a ﬁnding as to whether there has been
a total or partial partition of the joint family pnoperty, _and,
if there has been such a partition, the date on which it has
taken place. '

[s- , 25A(2)» (4) Where a finding of total or partial partition has been
magi Pam» recorded by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer under this section and
pa the partition took place during the previous year,- (a) .......... ..the total income received by or on behalf of
the joint family in re V ect of the period upto the
date of partition shall e assessed as if no partition
had taken place; and

[s-_ 25A(2) (b) each member or group of members shall, 'in addition
 Pam to any tax for which he or it may be separately
P liable and notwithstanding anything contain in
section 11. clause (2) [section 14(1)], be jointlyé and
severally liable for .......... ..the tax on the income so
assessed .............. .. »

[New] (5) Where a ﬁnding of total or partial partition i has
been recorded by the Inncome-tax Officer under this se tion
and the partition took place after the expiry of the pr ious
year, the total income of the previous year of the oint
family shall be assessed as if no partition had taken p cc: }i

tial, of a Hindu family as they apply in relation to the levy
and collection of tax in respect of any such period. Explanation.--In this section,-" ~ '[Ncw] (a) "partition" means- (i) a physical division of the property, if the pro-
perty admits of such division, or, (ii) where the property does not admit of physical
division, then such division as the property admits
of; .......... .. and a mere severance of status shall
not be deemed to be a partition; (b) "partial partition" means a partition which is par-
tial as regards the persons constituting the Hindu
undivided family, or the properties belonging to
the Hindu undivided family, or both. H--Shipping business of non-residents. (1) The provisions of this section shall, notwithstanding Section :82.
anything contained in the other provisions of this Act, apply Shipping
for the purpose of the levy and recovery of tax in the case Eggﬂzifdcnfj
of a non-resident who carries on business in India in any [s;4 ,c,m,,,
financial year as the owner or chartener of a ship (such per-- pan
son hereinafter in this section being referred to as the prin-
cipal) .......... .. '

(2) Where a ship of the principal carries passengers, [5, 4413 (2),
livestock, mail or goods shipped at a port in India, one-sixth latter 112"]
of the amount paid or payable on acéount of such carriage
to the principal or to any person on his behalf, whether that
amount is paid or payable in or out of India, shall be deemed
to be income accruing in India to the principal on account
of such carriage .......... .. (3) Before the departure from any port in_ India of any [s- 4413(1)]
such ship ............. ..the master of the ship' shall prepare and
furnish to the Income-tax 0 er a re , , of the full amount
paid or payable to the prin pal, or' d any person on his s

5 '3 1
l

l

[s' _ 
earlier half,
part]

[s- _ 44B(3),
earlier part]

[s- , 443(2),
earlier half,

part]

[s- 4413(3). latter part]

[s.44C]

[s. 44A,
latter part ] Section 183 ; Recovery of
tax in respect
of non-resi- dent from his
assets
[s.4.2(I), Ist
l'rov.] 208 Clauses 182-183

'behalf: on account of the carriage of all passengers, live-
stock, mail or goods shipped at that port since the last arri-
val of the ship thereat. (4) On receipt of the return, the Income-tax Officer shall
assess the income referred to in sub-section (2) .......... ..and
determine the sum payable as tax thereon at the rate or
rates for the time being applicable to the total income of
a company which has not made the arrangements referred
to in section 203 [18(3D), main para], and such sum shall be
payable by the master of the ship ....... .. (5) For the purpose of determining the tax payable
under sub-section (4), the Income-tax Oﬁicer may call for
such accounts or documents as he may requﬁe .......... .. (6) .......... ..A port clearance shall not be granted to the
ship until the Customs-Collector, or other oﬂicer duly autho-
rised to grant the same, is satisﬁed that the tax assessable
under this section has been duly paid. (7) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent
the principal from claiming in the ﬁnancial year following
that in which any payment has been made on his behalf

'under this section, that an assessment be made of his total

income of the previous year, and that the tax payable on
the basis thereof be determined in accordance with" the
other provisions of this Act, and if he so claims, any such
payment as aforesaid shall be treated as a payment in
advance of the tax leviable i.n the relevant assessment ear,
and the difference between the sum so paid and the am unt
of tax found payable by him on such assessment shal be
paid by him or refunded to him, as the case may be. =; (8) The provisions of this section shall not apply where
the Income-tax Ofﬁcer is satisﬁed that there is an agenit of
the principal from whom the tax will be recoverable in: the
igflevant assessment year under the other provisions of this
. ct. \

I--Recovery of tax in respect of non-residents. u
x

Without prejudice to the provisions of section 1 '7 (1)

[section embodying the rule that a representative asse see- is liable to pay the tax] or of section 176 [section newly dd-
ed authorising the Income-tax Ofﬁcer to proceed ag nst
assets with agent], where the person entitled to the inc me
.......... ..referred to in section 9 . clause (i) [42(1) main ra,
earlier part] is a non-resident. the tax chargeable ther on,
whether in his name or in the name of his agent whq is
liable as a representative assessee. may be recovered; by
deduction under any of the provisions of sections 20E to 204 [18(2) to 18(3D)] and .......... ..any arrears of tax may be
recovered also in accordance with the provisions of his
Act from any assets of the non-ii-¢sident which are, or ay
at any time come within; India. 3 '

a (

¥q

4'. ~ K 209 Clause 184

J --Persons leaving India. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 5 ¢°ti°" '34-
[ section 3 ], when it appears to the Income--tax Oﬂicer that f,?'°"""°m
any individual may leave India during 'the current assess-1.,,,ving1,,d;,,,
ment year, or shortly after its expiry,-and that he has no [L ,';'A(,),
present intention of returning, .......... ..the total income of main para,
such individual for the period from the expiry of the pre- earlier half]
vious year for that assessment year, to the probable date
of his departure from India .......... ..shall be chargeable to

tax in that assessment year. (2) .......... ..The total income of each completed previous [s. 234A (1),
year or part thereof included in such period ............ ..... .. ngain para.
shall be chargeable to tax at the rate or rates in force in '""f' ham
that assessment year, and separate assessments shall be 9"]
made in respect of each such completed previous year or
part thereof. '

(3) The Income-tax Officer may estimate the income of 5- ?4A(')v
such individual for such period or any part thereof, ﬂgff'
where it cannot be readily determined in the manner pro- paft] '
vided in this Act. (4) For the purpose of making an assessment under sub- [I- 24A(2)l
section (1), the Inc.ome~tax Officer may serve a notice upon
such individual requiring him to furnish, within such time, ,
not being less than seven days, as may be speciﬁed in the 2
notice, a return in the same form and veriﬁed in the same
manner as a return under section 143(2) [sub-section (2) of section 22 ], setting forth .......... ..his total income for each
....... .. completed previous year comprised in the period re
ferred to in sub-section (1) and his estimated total income
for any part of a complete previous year comprised in that
period .......... ..; and the provisions of this Act shall, so far
as may be, and subject to the provisions of this section,
apply as if the notice were 1 noticeiissued under section
143(2) [sub-section (2) of section 22 ]. 1

(5) Tax chargeable under, this section shall be in addi- [Nlcw]
tion to the tax, if any, chargeable under any other provision
of this Act. - (6) Where the provisions of sub-section (1) are appli- [Nlvwl
cable, any notice issued by the Income-tax Oﬂicer under 1 section 143(2) [sub-section (2): of sectihn 22] or section 154
(1) [ section 34(1) , second part, portion relating to the issue
of a notice containing the're._t;uirem'eht to be included on
the lines of section 22(2) ] in respect dfiany tax chargeable ,
under any other provision of this Act may, notwithstanding
anything contained in section 143(2) Esection 22(2)] or sec-
tion 154(1) [ section 34(1) second para, portion relating to
notice containing such requirements] as'the case may be.
require the furnishing of the return by such individual
within such _ riod, not bein less thfn.-seven days, as the
Income-tar ﬂicer may thin properﬁg 

' i 210 Clauses 184-186

[New] (7) Every assessment under sub-section (1) shall be
_ completed within three months of the date on which the
notice under sub-section (4) is served, except where such
individual himself waives his right to have the assessment
so completed, or where the assessment is delayed owing to

any conduct of such individual. K--Di'scontinuance of business, or dissolution. Section 185 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 ,

Discontinued, [ section 3 ] where any business, profession or vocation which

E"""°" was not charged under the provisions of the Indian Income- p,;,f]5(')' tax Act, 1918, is discontinued in any.assessment_year, the

7 of1g18 total income of such business, profession or vocation of the
period from the expiry of the previous year for that assess-
ment _year .upto the date of such discontinuance may, at
the discretion of the Income-tax Oﬂicer, be charged to
tax in that assessment year. [New] (2) The total income of each completed previous year
or part thereof included in such period shall be chargeable
to tax at the rate or rates in _force in that assessment year,
and separate assessments shall be made in respect of each
such completed previous year or part thereof. [S- 25(2)» (3) Any person discontinuing any such, business, pro-
°a"'" Pm] fession or vocation shall give to the Income-tax Oﬁicer
notice of such discontinuance within ﬁfteen days there- of .......... .. - [s. 25(1), (4) Tax chargeable under this section shall be in addi-
Pm] tion to the tax, if any, chargeable under any other provision
of this Act. section 133 , ( 1) Where any business, profession or vocation carried
A_ssociati0n on by .......... ..an association of persons has been discontinu-
'g3:i';:;d °' ed or where .......... .. an association of persons is dissolved,---
d'5°°"'i""°d- (a) the Income-tax Oﬁicer shall make an assessment of
§;r'f]'*('3' the total income of the .......... ..association of per-
sons as if no such discontinuance or dissolution had
taken place; and
[8- 44(3), (b) every person who was at the time of such discon-
Paﬁl tinuance or dissolution a .......... ..member of ' the

association, and the legal representative of any such
member who is deceased, shall in respect of the in-
come of the association be jointly and severally
liable for the amount of tax.....; .... ..payable, and
all the provisions of this Act, so far as may be,
shall apply to any such assessment .......... .. [New] (2) Where such' discontinuance or dissolution takes place
after any proceedings in respect of an assessment year ave
commenced, the procecdings be continued agains ' the

s _t

persons referred to in: sub- on (1) from -the sta e at

I

. r 211 Clauses 186-188 V

which the proceedings stood at the time of such disconti-
nuance o'r dissolution, and all the provisions of this Act
shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly. . (3) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall, so [New]
for as may be and mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to [s. (2) part
any penalty or other sum, chargeable under any provision 5-44 3) Part]
of this Act, as they apply in relation to tax. (4) Nothing in this section shall aﬁect the provisions Of [New] section 170(2) [24B(1), portion limiting liability of legal re-
presentative to extent of estate]. /
L--Special propisions for certain kinds of income. Where the time taken by the author of a literary or Scctiors I37-
artistic work in the making thereof is more than twelve R°Y".";'°'
.......... ..months,............the amount received or receivable f;§';'§"tm_
by him during any previous year on account of any lump rafy 0, mi.
sum consideration for the assignment or grant of any of stic work.
his interests in the copyright of that work or of royalties [8 "AM
or copyright fees (whether receivable in lump sum or other- '
wise), in respect of that work, shall, if he so claims, be
allocated for purposes of assessment as hereunder--- (i) where the time so taken is less than twenty-four

, months, one-half of the amount of such lump sum,

royalties or fees as the income of the previous year

in which the vsfhole amount is received or receiva- ble, and the other half as the income of the next
succeeding previous year; and (ii) where the time so taken is twenty-four months, or
more, one-third of the amount of such lump sum,
royalties or fees as the income of the previous year
in which the" whole amount is received or receiva-
ble, and one-third of the said amount' as the income
of each of the two next succeeding previous years. Explanation:-For the purposes of this section, the ex-
pression 'author' includes a joint author, and the expression
'lump sum', in regard to royalties or copyright fees, inclu-
des an advance payment on account of such royalties or
copyright fees which is not returnable.'

M----Liability of State Governments. §,'§?Zi.§'s't otnss'
' - - income-tax. .......... ..Income--tax payable on the interest............ on Fm 9-tcurmf-8

any security of the State Govanment ,; issued income-tax °"' $'"'°
free shall be payable by the St te Govepgment at such rate gf";'ﬁ';1,'§°m'
as may be laid down by any Ce ral Acté ~ pm

I
l

.«
l,
r Section 189 . Assessment
of registered
firms. [8- '-',3 (5)
opening
lines ]

[5' ?3(5) (3): visions of sub-section (3 , in the case of a registered ﬁrm,
after assessing the total i come of the ﬁrm,- (i) the income-tax payable by the ﬁrm itself shall be
determined; and (ii) the share of each partner in the income of the
ﬁrm .......... ..shall be included in his total income-
and assessed to tax accordingly. (2) .......... ..If such share of any partner is a loss it shall
be set off against his other income or carried forward and
set off in accordance with the provisions of sections 72 to 80 [24(1) and (2)]. (3) .......... ..When any of the partners of a registered
ﬁrm is a non-resident, the tax on his share in the in-
come .......... ..of the ﬁrm shall be assessed on the ﬁrm at

the rate or rates which would be applicable if it? were
assessed on him personally, and the tax so assessed shall
be paid by the ﬁrm. ~ '

In the case of an unregistered ﬁrm, the Income-tax Ofﬁ- Assessment of Ce1"'

unregistered
ﬁrms. [S-23(5)(b)l Section 191 . Application (a) may .......... ..determine the tax payable b the ﬁrm.
itself on the basis of the total income 0 the ﬁrm;
or (b) .......... ..if, in his opinion, the aggregate amo nt of
the tax .......... ..payable by the partners 1'. t ﬁrm
were treated as a registered firm would e eater-
than the aggregate amount of the tax which . ould
be payable by the ﬁrm under clause (a) and the
tax which would be ' ayable by the partners indi-
vidually, ma A procee to make the assessmentiunder
section 189(1 (ii) [23(5)(a)(ii)] as if the ﬁrm 1' ere a
registered firm; and Where the procedure sp ciﬁed
in this clause is applied to any unregistere ﬁrm,
the provisions of section 189(2) and 189(3) [1 t and
2nd provisos to section 23(5)(a)] shall apply here-
to as they apply in the case of a registered rm. B--Registration. E
(1) An application for registration of a ﬁrm for the pur- for rcgistra- poses of this Act may be made to the Income-tax Officer

tion. [s.26'A(1)]

on behalf of any ﬁrm if--- (i) -the partnership is eyidenced by an instrunient,..- and 5

L1',

,5. '6'

r ....._e.4....'. .'

213 3

Clause 191 (ii) the individual shares of the partners are speciﬁed
in that instrument, or can be ascertained from that
instrument with or without the aid of the instru-
ments of partnership of any other connected firms. (2) Such application may, subject to the provisions of [NW]
this section, be made either during the existence of the
ﬁrm or after its dissolution. . r

(3) The _application shall be made to the "Income-tax ['~rf5A (2)&
Oﬂicer having jurisdiction to assessthe 'ﬁrm, and shall be fﬂth' Rufgi,
signed---- second para: mediately before its dissolution. and by the legal
representative of any such partner who is deceas- ed. V
(4) The application shall be made before the end of,[f,;,,_'§¢':d(')'

the_ previous year for the assessment year in respect of with Rule 2,
which registration is sought: - _ Second para. part]
Provided that the Income-tax Oﬁicer may entertain an
application made after the end of the previous year, if he
is satisﬁed that the ﬁrm was prevented by sufficient cause
from making the application before the end of the previous

year. 4 _

(5) The application shall be accompanied by the 0Ti_gi- Edrisﬁcag)
nal instrument evidencing the partnersltip, together with with Rhxlc~31
a copy thereof: ' '

Provided that if the Income-tax Oﬂider is satisﬁed that
for sufficient reason the original instrument cannot con-
veniently be produced, he may accept a 'copy of it certiﬁed
in writing by all the partners (not being minors). or, where
the application is made after the dissolution of the ﬁrm,
by all the persons referred to in clausei(b) of sub-section
(3), to be a correct copy, or a certified (logy of the instru-
ment: and in such cases the application,s all be accompa- ;_
nied by' a duplicate copy of the original instrument: '

{Provided further that where the individual shares of _i
the partners are not speciﬁed in the ins ,' ent of partner- ;
ship, the provisions of this sectiqn shall ' pply also in rela- '
tion to the instruments of partnership re erred to in clause' (ii) of sub-section (1) as they apply in relation to the instru-
niient evidencing the partnershipof the firm to be register-
e . (6) The application shall be made in the prescribed [s- 2611(2).
form and shall give the following particulars-- 'ﬁfe 3' (i) the names and addresses of the rtners of the ﬁrm £3115': '(iii) the interest on capital or loans payable to the
partners; (iv) the salary or commission or any other amount
payable to the partners; and iv) the manner in which the proﬁts of the firm were
divided for the latest previous year for which
such division -has been made and the mode of
distribution, that is to say, whether the distribu-
tion was made by crediting the accounts of the
partners or in any other manner, or if the proﬁts
have not been divided the reason for not dividing
the proﬁts. (7) Where registration is granted to any ﬁrm for any
assessment year, it shall have effect for every subsequent
assessment year, provided there is no change in the consti-
tution of the ﬁrm or the shares of the partners as eviden-
ced by the instrument of partnership on the basis of which
the registration was granted, and provided the ﬁrm furni-
shes, along with its return of income for the assessment
year concerned, a declaration to that effect, in the prescrib-
ed form and veriﬁed in the prescribed manner. (8) Where any such change has taken place in the pre- vious year, the ﬁrm shall apply for fresh registration for
the assessment year concerned in accordance with the pro-
visions of this section. » (1) On receipt of an\application for registration of a
firm, the Income-tax Oﬂicer shall inquire into the genuine-
ness of the ﬁrm and its constitution as speciﬁed inlthe in-
strument of partnership (as read with the instruments of
partnership referred to in clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of section 191 , where the case so requires), and--- (a) if he is satisﬁed that there is or was during the pre-
vious year in existence a genuine ﬁrm with the
constitution so speciﬁed, he shall pass an qrrder in

writing registering the ﬁrm for the assessment

year ; ( b) if he is not so satisﬁed, he shall pass an order in
writing refusing to register the firm. '

(2) The Income-tax 01ﬁC_€'I' shall not reject an appli-
cation for registration merely on the ground that 'the ap-
plication is not in order, but shall intimate the defect to
the ﬁrm and give it an opportunity to rectify the defect
in the application within a period of one month from the
date of such intimation. .(3) If the defect is not rectified within such tiine, the

Income-tax Oﬂicer may reject the application. '.. . 215
Clauses 192-193

(4) The Income-tax Oﬁicer shall ﬁnish- the inquiry un- [New]
der this section before the expiry of a period of one year
from the date of ﬁling of the a lication, or before making
an assessment on the ﬁrm for We assessment year, which-
ever is earlier. (5) Where a ﬁrm is registered for any assessment year, [NeWl
the Income--ta:x: Officer shall record a certiﬁcate on the in- {Sec Rule4
strument of partnership or. on the certiﬁed copy submitted 1) Part]
in lieu of the original instrument, as the case may be, to
the effect that the ﬁrm has been registered under this Act,
for that assessment year; and where a declaration under section 191(7) [relevant sub-section of section for applica-
tion for registration, to the effect that in the 'case of subs-
equent assessment year only a declaration need be sent]
is furnished by the ﬁrm for any subsequent assessment
year, he shall also endorse a note of such declaration hav-
ing been furnished on the said instrument or certiﬁed copy. (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in ' this sec- [s. 23 (4),
tion, where, in respect 'of any assessment year, there is, onmain ta.
the part of a ﬁrm, any such failure as is mentioned in sec- lam' "3
tion 148 [s. 23(4), main para, earlier hal:E,,embodied in sec- P"'.1,
tion re: best judgment assessment], the Income-tax Oyfﬁcer '
may refuse to register the ﬁrm for the assessment year. - (1) I)', where a ﬁrm has been registered, or its regis- Scctim 193.
.tration has effect under section 191 (7) [newly added sub- Can°§11§ti°n
section in section re: application for registration, to the ff RP3""'*'
effect that registration has effect for subsequent year], for ""1
any assessment year, the Income-tax Ogflcer is of opinion [N°"'1. -
that there was during the previous year no genuine ﬁrm 5" 1]"'° 631
in existence as registered and that the registration was ob- ;
tained or continued by misrepresentation, he may, with f
the previous sanction of the Inspecting Assistant Commis-
sioner and after giving the ﬁrnt a reasonable opportunity
of. being heard, cancel the registration of the ﬁrm for that
assessment year. '

(2) If, where a ﬁrm has been registered or its regis- [s. 23§(4),
tration has effect under section'191(7) newly added sub- mini para.
section in section re: application for gistration, provid-1";f]' ""3
ing that registration once granted has effect for future pa '
years] ,- for any assessment yearjsthere is, on the part of the
ﬁrm, any such failure in respect of the assessment year as
is mentioned in section 148 [ section 23(4) , main para, ear- _lier half, i.e., section for best judgment assessment], the , .
Income--tax Officer may cancel the registration of the ﬁrm E' 2 ,( )
for the assessment year, after giving the ﬁrm not less than p,'.,,.?,';,']' '
fourteen days' notice intimating his intﬂition to cancel its
registration and after giving it a reasmable opportunity
of being heard. , ' 

» Section 194 . Clauses 193-195

[New] (3) Where the registration of a ﬁrm is cancelled for
any assessment year, the Income-tax Oﬂicer shall amend
the assessments of the and its partners for that assess-
gtent year on the footing that the ﬁrm is an unregistered

rm. [New] (4_) The provisions of section 161 [35 (1) to (4)] shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to the amendments of the assess-
ments of the firm and its partners under sub-section (3).
' the period of four years speciﬁed in section 161 (7) [ S. 35
(1) ] being reckoned from the date of the order cancelling
the registration. . INew] (5) No order cancelling the registration of a ﬁrm for
any assessment year shall be made after the expiry of
eight years from the end of that assessment year. C--Changes in constitution, succession and dissolution. (1) Where, at the time of m'aking an assessment under
Change in section 147 or 148 [23] it is found that a change has occur-
°'t2n-Wlltiol red in the constitution of a ﬁrm, .... .. the assessment shall
° "'ﬁ""° be made on the ﬁrm as constituted at the time of making

5- 25 (')3 the assessment: *

Provided that the income of the previous year
shall, for the purposes of inclusion in the total incomes of
the partners, be apportioned between the partners vtho, in
such previous year, were entitled to receive the same: tinue as partner or partners after the chan e, or (b) where all the partners continue with a chat: ge in
their respective shares or in the shares of szxme of
them. '

. Where a ﬁrm carrying on a business profession E r vo- §f,?c1:;i335I,f cation is succeeded bx another ﬁrm, and the case is ngt one

one ﬁnn by covered by section 1 4 [26 (1), relating to changes 11 the

. 100016? ﬁmh constitution of the ﬁrm], separate assessments sh ll be

[New] made on the predecessor ﬁrm; and the successor ft m in
accordance with the jarovisiorts of section 180 [26(2)].§

i 217 Clauses 196-197

(1) Where any business, profession or vocation carried S¢Cti°n 195-
on by a firm .... .. has been discontinued, or where a ﬁrm Finn di8§01V-
....... .. is dissolved,-- gisggjfggggf (a) the Income-tax Officer shall make an assessment [",'t*j*(')'

of the total income of the .... .. ﬁrm as if no such
discontinuance or dissolution had taken place ; and (b) every person who was at the time of such discon-- [s. 44 (3),

tinuance or dissolution a partner of the ﬁrm, and Part]

the legal representative of any such partner who '

is deceased, shall, in respect of the income of the

ﬁrm, .... .. be jointly and severally liable for- the

amount of tax ....... .. payable, and all the provi- sions of this Act, so far as may be, shall apply to

any such assessment ............. .. (2) Where such discontinuance or dissolution takes [Nevg
place after any proceedings in respect of an assessment
year have commenced, the proceedings may be continued
against the persons referred tofin sub-section (1) from the
stage at which the proceeding stood at the time 'of such
discontinuance or dissolution, a d all the provisions of this ;.
Act shall, so far as may be, amly accordingly. ,

i I

(3) The provisions of subsections '»(1) and (2) shall, [s- 41(2). Dirt
mutatis mutandis and so far as may i ,' apply in relation "44 ,3)'*'''"]
to any penalty or other sum ' rgeab, . under any provi-
sion of this Act, as they apply _n relation to tax. (4) Nothing in this section shall dﬂiect the provisions'[N°".']
of section 170 (2) [24B (1), portion limiting liability of
legal representative to extent of estate.] 2 ' ,

D~Other provisions. ' ' A 

(1) Besides the provisions; contaizfpd in this Chapter, Sqct on :3; the following are' the provisions of this 'Act specially r_ele- L" bections 76 & 77. . [24 (1) 2nd p K viso part,"' 2:4, (2) proviso (c) and '(d)' [24 A2) pg-ooh
part] relati to loss f ga registered firm or an 3
unregistered treat Vpapt registered. = Section 78 . . ' [24 (1) 2nd proviso, pit; and _24. (2) misc (c)

part] relating to loss of_ umcgtstered 1. Underlining of sections in" the list has not beenﬁnic, for facility of 
0 ~ I . Clauses 197-198

s"°ti°"'79 (I) .. [24 (2) Prov. (e)] relati.ng.to set off of 1033;; in
cases of change of C0l1Stltut10n in a ﬁrm. 3605011 I23 .. [10 (5A) part] relating to computation of tax on

compensation etc.
Section r38 clause(1) [3fm(1)] relating to information and returns by a Section 165 . . [23 (6)] relating to intimation of shares. Section 280 (2) & 280 (4.) [28 (1) Proviso (d) and 28 (2)] relating to computa-
tion of penalty in the case of ﬁrms and penalty for
wrong apportionment of shares. Section 320 (2) (a) .. ' !63] relating to service of notices in the case of

Section 321 (2) . . [Newly added section in Misc. Chapter relating to
service of notices in the case of dissolv ﬁrms.'

(2) The list of provisions given in sub-section (1) is
for convenience of reference only. CHAPTER XVII
SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO COMPANIES

i*?¢'ti°19 191? (1) The following provisions of this Act are specially
si;'ns';p1;fl'i';';: relevant in' respect of companies, namely," -
ble to comp. Section 6 clause (3) [4.A(c)] relating soresidencc of a company; uues. [New] Section 20 [8 Expln.] relating to deductions in the case of a banking
company under the head «interest on securities"; Section 28 (ii) [10 (5A)] . relating to compensation etc., to a agent; Section 4 .7 (iii) [12B (1) relating to' transfe of capital assets to a shbsidir
2nd prov.] ry company ; ' ; Sect'on 85(5) [15C (5) relating to non-applicability of section 85 5 _ to

I I proﬁts andhdins to which section r :3 [sz3A '

Section :08 [56A] relating to exemption from tax of dividends from
certain Indian companies; '

Section tog (2) [r 5B (r) relating to non-applicability of section 109 [1513] for
'xst prov]. super-tax in relation to companies; Sections 113 to :20 [23A] relating to additional super-tax; Section 123 (1) [1o(5A) . relating to computation of tax where total (income
part] includes compensation esc.; Section 126 [I7 (7)] relating to computation of tax where total income
includes capital gains; ' Section 139 [39] relating to powers of the Income-tax Oﬁcer etc. to -- examine registers; ' 'Provisions applicable" only to partners have not been included.
3.1 he list of sections has not been un¢1-lined, for facility of reading. ; Clauses 198-201 - Section 166 (5) [19A] gelating to information and return regarding divi- ends; _Section :67 ' [20] relating to ocrtiﬁcatesin respect of tax on divideo
n ; '/ ' Section 203 [18 (3D)] relating to deduction)! super-tax from dividends; Sehtion 254. (a) [30 (1) relating to appeal: against an order under section _
prov.] :13 [23A]; Section 320 (2)(b) [63] relating to setivice of notices. (2) The list of provisions given in sub-section (1) is
for convenience of reference only. : dance with the provisions qf this Chap t_ . [N 1'

(2) Nothing in this section shall rejudice the charye
of tax on such income under the provisions of section 3(1) .
3 . M A

[]

(1) In the case of income in respe of which provision See 'on i 200.
is not made under this Chapter? for de cting income-tax at PW'
the time of payment, and in any case where income-tax has '[':° 9']
not been deducted in accordanqe with (he provisions of th' '
Chapter, income-tax shall be payable bI'¢the assessee direct. (2) Save as provided in this Chapt 3 super-tax shall be [s. 38 (2)1
payable by the assessee direct. 3 L
B--Deductiong at stmfce. : «
(1) Any person responsib for '
chargeable under the head "S aries" mated income of the assessee. ' '
cial year in accordance with
[ section 17(1) ]. i .»z'

15--I Lew G_oIn.I58. Clauses 201-203

[s- _l8 (2), (3) ._. ..... ..The person responsible for making the pay- P"°'"'°] ment referred to in sub-section (1) or (2) may, at the time of
making any deduction, increase or reduce the amount to be
deducted under this section for the purpose of adjusting any
excess or deﬁciency arising out of any previous deduction
or failure to deduct during the ﬁnancial year. [New] (4) The trustees of a recognised provident fund, or any
person authorised by the regulations of the fund to make
payment of accumulated balances due to employees, shall
in cases where section 297(1) [58G (3)] applies, at the time
an accumulated balance due to an employee is paid,,make
therefrom the deduction provided for in section 298 [58H]. [New] (5) Where any amount standing to the credit of an em-
ployee in an approved superannuation fund is paid to the
employee, income-tax on the amount so paid shall be deduct-
ed by the trustees of the fund to the extent provided in
section 313 [58S (2)]. '

{s. 18 (2A). (6) For the purposes of deduction of tax on salary pay-
1"'""P""] able in foreign currency, the value in rupees of such alary
shall be calculated at the prescribed rate of exchangg. Section 202 . The person responsible for paying any income charge-
::c'§r"i°:i'es°" able under the head "Interest on securities" shall..;., ..... ..,
I,' 18 23) at the time of payrnent,-- main para] ' (a) unless otherwise prescribed in the case of any' secu-
rity of the Central Government, .......... ..ded inc
come-tax on the amount of the interest paya le at
the maximum rate ; and ,

[s. _18 (3A), (b) also deduct super-tax on such amount, when paid
min Para] to a non-resident--- ; (i) in the case of a conipany, at the rate app]: able
to a company which has not made the a nge-
ments for deduction of super-tax referr to

in section 203 [18(3l?)]; _ % (ii) in the case of any pther person, in accorfance V

wit]h the provisions! of section 124(1)(b) 17(1) (b) - - Section 203 . The principal oﬁicer of an (Indian company or a com- Di"'?§"d3'b pany which has made such effective arrangements as: may
gin P5" 1)' be rescribed for the educt' of super-tax from divi ends
' sh 1, at the time of ying' if dividend to a share lder

whom the principal A er ' ';no reason to believe 0 be 221.

Clauses 203-205

a resident, deduct super-tax on the amount of such dividend
as increased in accordance with the provisions of section
59 Section 16(2) main para, latter part], at the following
rates :-- cable to a company which has not made the
arrangements for deduction of super-tax from
dividends referred to above; (ii) if the shareholder is a person other than a com-
pany, in accordance with the provisions of section
124(1) (b) [ Section 17(1) (b) ]. (1) Any person responsible for paying to a non-resi- Section 204 .'
dent .......... ..any .......... ..sum chargeable' under the provi- E3332? "lmfa
sions of this Act, (not being income chargeable under the (3B)'°,':,a,n
head "Salaries" or "Interest on securities". and not being para}

a dividend) shall, at the time of payment, unless he is him-
self liable to pay any income-tax and super-tax thereon as
an agent. deduct on such sum- (a) income-tax at the maximum rate, and (b) super-tax- (i) in the case of a company, at the rate applicable
to a company which has not made the arrange-
ments for the deduction of super-tax referred to_
in section 203 [18(3D)]; (ii) in the case of any other person, in accordance
with the provisions of section 124(1) (b) [17(1) (b)]; '

Provided .......... ..that nothing in this sub-section shall gs. 18 (3B),
apply to any payment made in the course of transactions nd D_1'°V-J
in respect of which a person responsible for the payment
is deemed under section 173(1) , Piaoviso [ section 43 ,

First Proviso] not to be an agent of the' payee. (2) Where the person responsible for paying any such [s- 18 (3C)]
sum .......... ..( other than interest) to a nan-resident considers, E
that the whole of such sum would not be income chargeable
in the case of the recipient, he may make an application
to the Income-tax Oﬂicer to determine, by general or spe-
cial order. the appropriate proportion} of such sum so
chargeable, and upon such determination tax shall be deduc-
ted under sub-section (1) only on that proportion of the
sum which is so chargeable. 1 (1) Where. in the case of my income in respect of Sccti 11205
which income-tax or super-tax is required to be deducted Cm' t¢_
at the time of payment at a particular rate under' the pro- "'lg3':'r";';:': Clauses -205-209

total world income of the recipient justifies the deduction
of income-tax or super-tax at any lower rate or no deduction
of income-tax or super--ta:c, the Income--tax Oﬂicer shall, on
an application made by the assessee in this behalf, give a
certiﬁcate in writing to that eﬁect. (2) .......... ..Wherc any such certiﬁcate is given, the
person responsible for paying the income shall, until; such
certiﬁcate is cancelled by the Income--tax Officer, deduct
income-tax and super-'tax at the rates speciﬁed in such cer-
tiﬁcate .......... ..or deduct no tax, as the case may be. All sums deducted in accordance with the provisions of sections 201 to 204 [18(2) to 1.8(3D)] shall, for the purpose
of computing the income of an assessee, be deemed ito be
income received. Any deduction made ........ ....in accordance with the
provisions of sections_201 to 204 [18(2) to 18(3D)]....', .... ..
shall be treated as a payment of income-tax or super-ttix. as
the case may be, on behalf of the person from whose income
the deduction was made, or of the owner of the securﬁty or
of the shareholder as the case may be, and credit sh ll be
given to him for the amount so deducted (exclusive qf any
portion of such tax for which he obtains, in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, a refund,) on the prod ction
of the certiﬁcate furnished under section 211 [sub-s tion

(9) of section 18 ] ............. .., in the assessment, if any, ade
for the immediately following assessment year unde this
Act : Any person deducting an' sum in accordance wi the
provisions of sections 201 to 4 [18(2) to 18(3D)] sha l pay
within the prescribed time, the sum so deducted the
credit of the Central 'Government or as the Central card
of Revenue directs. ; . (1) If any such person does not deduct or after d duct-
mg fails to pay the as
to 204 ns (2) to 18, (3D)]
in section 203 [Sect' n 18(

 
 
 

i 223 Clauses 209-212

the company of which he is the principal officer shall, [so I8 (7)1
without prejudice to any other consequences which he or

it may incur, be deemed to be an assesee in default in res- pect of the tax: The power to levy by deduction under sections 201 to 5 ° 5°". *'°-
2o4 [ section 18(2) to (3D)], shall be without prejudice to 2; "g;;§';m
any other mode of recovery. dc by move.
TY." [sgis (3)]

Every person deducting income-gtax or super-tax in Se¢Iti_°n 211-
accordance with the provisions of sections 201 to 204 [Sub-- g'j{'g:':;:::'5
sections (2), (2B), (3), (3B), (3C), or' (3D), of section 18 ] [358 (9)]
shall, at the time of payment pf the sum from which tax -
has been deducted, furnish to the person to whom such
payment is made, a certiﬁcate to the effect that income-.-tax
or super-tax has been deducted, _and specifying the amount
so deducted, the rate at which the taix has been deducted, '
and such other particulars aslmay bejprescribed. For the purposes of sections 201 to 211 [All sections in- Section, 212.
corporating any part of section 18] and section 166(1) Person respo-
[20A] the expression "person responsible for paying" ".5eb1°f°'P" der the head "Interest onjge, urities" other than
'payments made by br on Hehalf of the Central
Government or the Government of a State, the
local authority or company including the princi--
' pal oﬂicer thereof ; 4. (iii) in the caseﬁof payments of any other sum char-
geable under the prdvisions -of this Act, not being
income chargeable under ihe head "Interest on
securities", the pay him, ' or -if the payer is
a company, the co y i including the prin-;
cipal officer thereo , 1 " ' ' 224 Clauses --2'1'3-217
sl'3°°"°" i?'i3;- ....... ..Where tax_is deductible at the source under sec-
d§';cf'§fc'r':fa_ tions 201 to 204 [ section 18(2) , 18(2A) , 18(3) , 18(3A) , 18(3B) ,
nd 0,, as,,.,_.,. 18(.5C) or 18(3D)], the assessee,sha11 not be callediupon
see to pay the tax himself unless he has received the income

[3- 7, (1): 9nd without such deduction.
proviso--ex- t ded

sfaxétionl 2:4. The provisions of section 207 [section re: credit for
Saving regar tax deducted at source--i.e., parts of s. 18(5) ] are without
dlﬂ(gi:axh;i'fe- prejudice to those of section 246 [section re: tax deemed
{,';'";,, Said fin to have been paid on dividends----existing s. 18(5) , part and
dividends. S. 49B]. ' '
[New]

C----Advance payment: of tax. Section 215 . (1) Tax shall be payable in advance in accordance
Advancetax with the provisions of sections 216 to 228 [All other sec-
 tions embodying any part of section 18A] in the case of
 in"?-mfg "2'of"i"°§i;4°Es'i§'c'i§§§is'°§§?§i§'§n§ §¢?Ju3'§f'°i%('i§'dfE
sec 10 o ,
f,'.;,§,f'_f,'a,',;'£2? (2A), 18(2B). 13(3), 18(3A),_18(3B) and 18(3C)] for deduc-
rlicr half pa- tion of income-tax at the time of payment and whibh is

§t.»x§fg)]"""h not chargeable under the head "Capital gains". [New] (2) Such income is hereinafter. in this Chapter 1iefer-
red to as "income subject to advance taxf', and such tax
is hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as "advance tax". [NW] (3) The provisions of this section shall, in relation to
any dividend which is to be increased under the provi-
sions of section 59 [ section 16(2) , main para, part re' ard-
ing increase of dividends], apply only for the purposes of
'super-tax. , 1

Advance tax shall be payable in the ﬁnancial year---- Section 2x6._
condition or (a) where the total income of the assessee referred to
liability to ' in section 217 (a) (i) [18A (1) (a), main para,: ear- pay advance

lier half, part, as embodied in the draft sebtion
relating to "computation of advance tax"] ..' .... .. (a)ma;,, pm, exceeded the maximum amount not chargea e to
earlier half, income-tax in his case by two thousand ﬁve, un-
Partl dred rupees, or - 3

tax. [s. 18A (1) (b) where it is pa able b virtue of the provisions of section 220(3) s. 18A(g)]. Subjecteto the provisions of section 215(3) , [sub-clause
newly added re: advance tax on'dividends] the amount of Section 217 . Computation
of advance

,,,_ advance was payable by an assessee in the ﬁnancial lyear
[NW] shall be computed as follows:--- -- [" 38") (")' (a) (i) .... ..his tot ' inco ' iaf the latest previous 'year
 in respect of hich fhas been assessed by

hall
pu-t.] first be asc 'ﬂed.' '3 " . H

ments in which the advance 225 Clauses 217-218 (ii) so much of such total income as consists of income

which was or could have been subject to advance
talx in that previous year shall next be ascertain-
€ ; (iii) income-tax and supervtax shall then be calculated 5, 18A (1)
on the last mentioned income at the average rate Ea). main
of income-tax and the average rate of super-ta.'/: 'WC'
respectively applicable in the ﬁnancial year to the ' pm')
total income determined for the said previous year; (iv) the sum total of income-tax and super-tax so calcu-
lated shall, subject to the prcwisions of clauses (b)
and (-c), be the advance tax payable; (b) .... ..in cases where under the provisions of section [8- I8A(§)
124(2). or 124 (3) [ section 17(1) 1st Proviso], the tax: ('L 1"?" ferred to in clauses (a) and 4(b), and the income
subject to advance tax so estimated shall be subs-
tituted for the income to be ascertained under

item (ii) of clause (a). V

E.7c'planation.----- .... ..If the assessee is a partner of a_[;.£ 18A(1)
registered ﬁrm and an assessment of the ﬁrm has been zmi Pr0V.]
completed for a previous year later than the latest previous
year. for which the assessee's .... ..asses$ment has been com-
pleted, his share in the income oftltajﬁrm shall, for the ,
purposes of clauses (a) and (b), be included in his total &
income on the basis of the said assessment of the ﬁrm. *

(1) Where a person has been prqztously assessed uné se'ion 2:8.
der this Act or under the Indim Income-taac Act, 1922, the u gof 1922.
Income-tax Oﬂicer may, on or after the 1st day of April Or r 5)'
in the ﬁnancial year, by order in writing require him to 7" °""'
pay .... ..to the credit of the Central Government, advance ; " ed in the draft section relating to instalment]. [5, .sA(.) (3) ....... ..If afterthe making of an order by the Income

(3). 3rd tax Oﬁicer under this section and before the 15th day of

P'°'"] February of the ﬁnancial yearan assessment of the asses-
see (or of the registered ﬁrm of which he is a partner) is
completed in respect of a previous year later than that re-
ferred to in the order of the Income-tax , Offi-
cer, the Income-tax Oﬂicer 1 may make an amended
order requiring the assessee to pay in one ins-
talment on the speciﬁed date, or in equal instalments am the
speciﬁed dates, if more than one, falling after the date of
the amended order, the advance tax computed on t_ re-
vised basis as reduced by the amount, if any, paid 1 ac-
cordance with the original order; but if the amount already
paid exceeds the advance tax determined on the revised
basis, the excess shall be refunded. ' Section 219 . (1) Subject to the provisions of this section and 0 sec-
lnstalmcnts tion 220[18A(2) and l8A(3)], advance tax shall be pa able
Of adVanC° in equal instalments on the 15th day of June, 15th da of
"""' September. 15th day of December and 15th day of Marph in

[s(-8), *3£;:x)1 the ﬁnancial year: vance taac on that source of income shall, subject as ore-
said, be payable in three equal; instalments on the 15t day
of September, the 15th day of lDecember and the 15t day
of March, respectively. 9

R5] I3A(I) (2) If the notice of demand issued under sectio 163

[29] in pursuance of the order under section 218 [se tion . 18A(1) (a), main para, earlier;-h,alf, part relating to» der
of Income-tax Oﬂ'icer]jis serv after any of the dat on
which the instalments tspeciﬁe therein are payable, the
advance tax shall be payable ' equal instalments on ach
of such of those dates 'as fall 'after the date of the se vice
of the notice of demand, or in one sum on the 15th d of
March if the notice is served after the 15th day of De em- ber. Section 220- (1) If any assesseel who is required to pay advanc tax
Estimate by by an order under section 218 ) [s. 18A sub-section (1) (a),
'-W¢95=¢- main para, earlier half, part re; Order by Income-tax ﬂi- ?[S-_ 18(2), cer] estimates at any time before the last instalment is due
"""" P3"-1 that his total income or income subject to advance t
the period which wo'u1 be the. evious year for the { me-
diately following assc , 'ye ', is l'ess'*than the tot in-'
come on the basis of. _hich, L income on which, e is

 

W

, :adjust any excess or deﬁciency in respect of any 227 Clauses 220

required to pay such tax, as the case may be, and accord-
ingly wishes to pay an amount less than the amount which
3% is so required to pay. he may send to the Income-tax
' cer-- (i) an estimate of the total income for that period, (ii) an estimate of the income subject to advance tax
for that period, and

((iii) an estimate of the advance tax payable by him cal- \' culated in the manner laid down in section 217 [s.
18A(1) (a) main para, part, as embodied in
section re: computation of tax%. He shall pay such
amount as accords with his es imate in equal ins-
talments on such of the dates' speciﬁed in section
219 [s. 18A(1) (a) main para, earlier half, part as
embodied in draft section re: instalments] as have
not expired or in one sum if ohly the last of such
cdates has not expired. '

'(2) .... ..The assessee may send a revised estimate of [S4, 1 1815(2)',
:'the advance tax payable by him beiore any one of the dates Prov'-l

:speciﬁed in section 219 [s. 18A (1) (a),' main para, earlier
half, as embodied in draft section re! instalments] anld
insta - ment already paid in a subsequent instalment or in subse-
quent instalments.' ' '

' (3) Any person who has not previobsly been assessed [S- '
under this Act or under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 , u 0

shall, before the 15th day of arch in each ﬁnancial year,
if his total income of the siod w ich would be the
previous year for the immediately fol oiving assessment -year is likely to exceed the ximumiaanount not charge-
able to income-tax in his caseby two? thousand ﬁve hun-

.dred rupees, send to the Income-tax'Ofii¢er-- (i) an estimate of the totaljincome the said previous
year; , (ii) an estimate of the income subgidct to advance tax,
a of the said previous year; and *

 

i(iii) an estimate of the adv nce taxi " able by him .... ..
calculated in the ma per laid? bwn in section 217 [s. 18A(1) (a) main pira, ear' 1' half, part as em-
bodies in .section ne: . co utation of' tax],
and shall pay such amdunt as <§}o.rds with his esti-
mate, on such of the dates sp ﬂed in section 219 [s. l8A(1) (a), main para, ear er half, as embodi-
ed in section part re: i ment] as have
not expired, by insta,I, ents ' may be revised
according to sub-sec ' (2) _iso to s. 1815(2)],

. ; e - r » «s

A

 

4 ~. - ; i :8A<a>1
'' 1922. p and ,,tp,ov_] relates to income subject to 228 Clauses -220-223

[New]. 2 (4) Every estimate under this section shall be sent in
the prescribed form and veriﬁed in the prescribed man-
71.81'. Section 22 :. Where part of the income subject to advance tax con- commasgon sists of any income of the nature of commission which is. receipts. receivable periodically and is not received or adjusted by

[S. 18A(4).] the payer in the assessee's account before any of the quar-»
terly instalments of advance tax become due, he may defer'
payment of advance tax on that part of his income to the-
date on which such income would be normally received or'
adjusted, and if he does so he shall communicate to the-
Incciome-tax Ofﬁcer thedate to which such payment is defer-V
re 2

Provided that, if the advance tax of which the pay-
ment is deferred is not paid within ﬁfteen days of the date'
on which such incomeor part thereof is received oradjust-2
ed by the payer in the assessee's account, the advance tax
shall be payable with ﬁour per cent. simple interest per
annum from the date of such receipt or adjustment to the
date of payment of the advance tax. Section 222 . (1) The Central Government shall pay simple in-- 2

Intcrcstpa.ya- terest .......... .. at four per cent. per annum .......... ..on the-
NC by Gov- amount by which the aggregate sum of any instalments of '
°'"m°'"' advance tax paid during any ﬁnancial year in which they are
[S-. '3A(5)» payable under sections 215 to 221 [All sections embodying'
mm" Pam' any part of section 18A(1), 18A(2)', 18A(3) of 18A(4)] exceeds. pan] the amount of the tax determined on regular assessm¢nt,...'

from the 1st day 0 April next following the said ﬁnancial
[S. x8A(5), year to the date 0 the regular assessment .......... .. for; the-
2"'! PFOV-] assessment year immediately following the said ﬁnancial'

year.'

(2) .... ..On any portion of such amount which is refund- [S. 18A(5), ed under the provisions of sections 215 to 221 [sectio' 18A

'5' PPOV-l (1) to (4)] interest shall be payable only up to the d e on
which refund was made. 1

section _ (1) Where in any ﬁnancial year an assessee-
I t "3 has paid advance tax under section 220(1) or 22(_)(2) [sub-
a',;,:'°" Fag" section (2) of.s. 18A] or section 220(3) [sub--sect1on (3) of
.,,.,,m, V s. 18A] on the basis of his own estimate, and the advance tax'
so paid is less than eighty per _cent. of the tax determined
5;'. '3A(6)v on the. basis of the regular sessment, so far as such tax
m Pam zzvance tax and so far as; it is.
not due to variations in the rates of tax made by the Fi ance
Act enacted for the year for which the regular asses nt
is made, simple interest at the rate of four per cent,' per'
annum from the 1st day of April next following the; said
ﬁnancial year up to the date of the said regular assessment
shall be payable by the assessee upon the amount by which.
the advance tax so paid falls short of the said eighty per

cent. '

'. See also alternative ' ft in'thc I' i on Clauses. _ g 
'. Existing section 18 A( , ut ' prescribes, the rate of four pf! cent- as from tst April, 1952. , 3 p

'£29
Clauses 223-225

(2) .... ..Where provisional assessment is made under [s. 18A (6) section 145 [23B],-- ﬁnd "W-l (i) interest shall be calculated in accordance with the
foregoing provision up to the date on which the tax
as provisionally assessed is paid, and (ii) thereafter interest shall be calculated at the rate
aforesaid on the amount by which the tax as so
assessed (in so far as it relates to income subject to
advance tax) falls short of the said eighty per
cent. (3) ...Where as a result of an order under section 259 [s~d 13A (6)'
[31] or section 272 [33A] or section 161 or 162 [35] or section 3 ' P'°"']
263 [66], or section 269 [66A],.the amount on which inte-
rest was payable under this section has been reduced, the
interest shall be reduced accordingly and the excess interest
paid, if any, shall be refunded together with the amount of
income-tax that is refundable. (4)...In such cases and under such circumstances as may f., .3A (5),-
be prescribed, the Income-tax Officer may reduce or waive 5th Prov.] .
the interest payable by the assessee under this section. Where, on making the regular assessment. the Income- Section 224 . tax Officer ﬁnds that any assessee has-- ' I'"°'°" Pa?'
able by asses- (a) under section 220(1) or 220(2) [s. 18A(2)] or section 5 ? in 0389
220(3), [s. 18A(3)] under estimated the advance tax ;'tn;'t"ld::'c'_°"'

payable by him and thereby reduced the amount [s. 1 (7)],
payable in any of the ﬂrst three instalments, or . (b) under secion 221 [s. 18A(4)] wrongly deferred the
payment of advance tax on a part of his income,
he may direct that the assessee shall pay simple
interest at four per cent, per annum----- (i) in the case referred to in clause (a), for the period
during which the payment was deficient on the
difference between the amountipaid in each such
instalment and the amo nt which should have been
paid having regard to he aggregate advance tax
actually paid ....... ..during the year, and (ii) in the case referred to 'm clause (b), for the period
during which the payment of advance tax was .... ..
so deferred. Explanati.on.--. . .For the purposes of this section, any in-
stalment due before the expiry of six months from the com-
mencement of the previous year in re ect of which it is
to be paid shall be deemed to have beco 4 due ﬁfteen days
after the expiry of the said six months. (1) Where, on making the regular assessment, the In- S°<=ti°n M5-
come-tax Officer ﬁnds that no» yrnentl 'advance tax has "" ' 'ﬁg: men . 7[NeW] (2) The provisions of section 223(3) [s.«18A(6), 3rd Prov.]
and of section 223(4) [s. 18A(6), 5th Prov.] shall apply to
interest payable under this section as they apply to interest
payable under section 223 [s. 18A(6) ]. :51: _ ( 1) If any assessee does not pay _on the speciﬁed date any

Em deemed instalment of advance tax that he is required to pay under

to be in def" section 218 [section 18A(1)] and does not, before thepdate on

ult.. which any such instalment as is not paid becomes d e, send

[I8A(I0)] under section 220(1) or section 220(2) [s. 18A(2)] n esti-
mate or a revised estimate of the advance tax pay;ble by
him, he shall be deemed to be an assessee in default, in res-
pect of such instalment or instalments. (2) If any assessee has sent under section 220(1) or 220(2)
7 [18A(2)] or section 220(3) [18A(3)] an estimate or a grevised
estimate of the advance tax payable by him, but does not
pay any instalment in accordance therewith on the ' ate or
dates speciﬁed in section 219 [s. 18A(1) (a), main pa a, ear-
lier half, part embodied in section re : instalmen ], he
shall be deemed to be an assessee in default in re ect of
such instalment or instalments : *

Provided that the assessee shall not, under sub-section (1)
'or this sub-section, be deemedfto be in default in re ect of
any amount of which the payment is deferred under ection
221 .[s. 18A(4)] until after the date communicated _V him

to the Income-tax Oiﬁcer under section 221 [s. 18 |(4)].
'5€C'i9n 227- Any sum, other than a penalty or interest, pai by or
jfgﬁggcc ti': recovered from an assessee in pursuance of the pr_ isions
'[s_ ,gA (")1 of sections 215 to 226 [all sections embodying any art of
section 18A(1) to 18_A(10)] shall be treated as a pay ent of
tax in respect of the" income' of the period which w uld be
the previous year for an assessment for the assessme t year
next following the Aﬁnancialyear in which it was yable,
and credit therefor shall be given to the assessee in t regu-
_lar assessment. ' ' " §;';i',';i'°;'ai:s shall not be taken into account for any of the_ pur ses of -[s. ,gA (,2)] sections 215 to 227 .[All other sections embodying a 1,): part
of section 18A]; and the emresstons total zncom and
"total world income" occurriitg in any of those sectio s shall

accordingly be construed as not including such inco e. ' Section 229 . '
When tax

D--Collection and Recovery 2

 

1'fi;'§§."'.§.-.?§L'.l ' (1) Any amoun speci ' ' as payable tin a n ice of
déemcd in demand under .... .. tion 1 29.].....j.shallz'~be;. paid ithin
'd°f"'"'«' ~ the time, at the pla e.and' V ' '

'_ in the 231 Clauses 229-230

notice ........... ....., or if a time is not so mentioned, then on or [5, 45, mam
before the exp ry of a period of forty-ﬁve days from the date para. Part]
of the service of the notice. '

(2) On an application made by the assessee before the
expiry of the due date under sub-section (1), the Income-
tax Oﬂicer may extend the time for payment or allow pay-
ment by instalments, subject to such conditions as he may
think fit to impose in the circumstances of the case. [New]

(3) If the amount is not paid within the time limited [,
under sub-section (1) or extended under sub-section (2),
as the case may be, at the place and to'the person men-
tioned in the said notice, the assessee ....... ..shall be deeme:l A

. 4.5, main,
para, part]

'to be in default. (4) I f, in a case where payment by instalments is allow- [New]
ed under sub-section (2), the assessee commits default in.
paying any one of the instalments within the time ﬁxed
under that sub-section. the asséssee shall be deemed to be
in de ault as to the whole of the amount then outstanding,
and t e other instalment or instalments shall be deemed to

have been due on the same date as the" instalment actually
in default. . (5) ....... ..Where an assessee has presented an appeal [s.
under section 254 [30], the Inoome-tax») Oﬁicer may, in his Pro'?-
discretion, and subject to such conditions as he may think '
fit to impose in the circumstanees of thecase, treat the as-
sessee as not being in default. in respect of the amount in
dispute in the appeal, even though the 'time for payment

has expired, as long as such aappeal remains undisposed
of. 5: I 3t? F
(6) ....... ..Where an assesseeehas be assessed in respect [s. 5, '_2lld't
of income arising outside 'slndia a country the Pt
laws of which prohibit or restrict the remittance of money i
to India, the Income-tax Oﬂicen shall nbt: treat the assessee '
as in default in respect of that part of the tax which is due ;
in respect of that amount of his income.,which, by reason of =
such prohibition or restriction, cannpt be brought into
India, and shall continue to ﬁreat the" assessee as not in .
default in respect of such part 'of the until the prohibi- ? s

tion or restriction is removed.' *

Explanation.---=For the p oses of-litllis section, income [3, 45, Expl.-];
shall be deemed to have been brought: into India if it has -
been utilised or could have been util' for the purposes
of any expenditure actually incurred 'the assessee with-
out India or if the income, whpther ltalised or not, has
been brought into India in any? form. . '

(1) When an assessee is in default or is deemed to be Section 230- ,
in default in making a payme , ' of tax' shall, in addition' {:1 . ' 9"" Scictifén 23:. (1) When an assessee is in default or is deemed to be in

 '° default in making a payment of ta.7c,_ the Income-ta); pfﬁcer

It 46(2)] may forward to the Collector a--cert1ﬁcate under h1s fs1vgna-
ture specxfymg the amount of arrears due from the assessee,
and the Collector, on receipt of such certiﬁcate,
shall proceed to recover from such assessee' the
amount speciﬁed therein by one or more of the modes men-
tionﬁd gelow, }rL1c§o'£'dance with the' procedure laid down
inte econd ceue-- ' (a) attachment and sale of the assessee's movable pro-
perty; . y ' _ (b) attachment and sale of the assessee's immovable
property; _ (c) arrest of the assessee and his detention in prison; (d) appointing a receiver for the management of the
assessee's movable and immovable properties,

ls-45(7),Expl. (2) The Income-tax Oﬂicer may issue a certificate under
'am' ha" sub-section (1) notwithstanding that dproceedings for treco-
Pm] very of the arrears by any other mo e have been ta en. Section 232 . (1) The Income-tax Oﬂicer may forward the certhicate

S:'gr°:'°:cn';3 referred to in section 231 [46(2), main para] to- .ﬁ°3'¢ 'S '° 56 (a) the Collector within whose jurisdiction the as' ssee
 carries on his business, profession or meat' n or
within whose jurisdiction the principal place Yf his

business, profession or vacation is situate, or 2 (b) the Collector within whose jurisdiction t Z as-
sessee resides or any -movable or immovable; pro-
perty of the assessee is situate. 2

(2) If the Collector to whom a certificate is sent ' an
Income-tax Oﬂicer is not able to recover the entire a ount
by sale of the property, movable and immovable, but 
information that the assessee has property in a district
within the jurisdict' of a , her Collector, he may end
the certificate to such her (gqﬁctor or to a Collector ,'th-
.,in whose jurisdiction ',the -ass" ,ee resides. and ther pan 233 Clauses 232-234

that Collector shall proceed to recover the' amount under this
«Chapter as if the certiﬁcate was sent to.' him by the Income-
tax: Oﬁicer. '

Explanation.--In this section, "Collector" means a Col-
.lector of a district in any part of India, and includes an
Additional Collector of any such district. (1) When the Income-tax Oﬁicer sends a certiﬁcate to S<='=t_i°_n 233-
a Collector under section 231 [46(2) main para] it shall not 2::'l§'c';'tc °f
be open to the assessee to dispute before the Collector the and; ,m,',,d.
correctness of the assessrruent, and no objection to the mcntthcrcof.
'-certiﬁcate on any ground shall be entertained by the Col- [New]
lector. (2) An assessee objecting to the issue of any certiﬁcate,
on any ground open to him. other than the correctness of
the assessment, may apply to the Income-tax Oﬁicer for
withdrawal or cancellation of the certiﬁ.'t'-"he, and the In-
come-tax Officer shall, after giving the assessee a reasonable
gpportunity of being heard, pass such orders as he thinks

t. '

(3) Notwithstanding the issue of a certiﬁcate to a Col-
lector, the Income-tax Officer shall have power to correct
any clerical or arithmetical mistake in the certiﬁcate by
sending an intimation to the'Collector. (4) The Income-tax Oﬂicer shall intimate to the Collec-
tor any orders withdrawing or cancellingj a 'certiﬁcate pass-
ed by him under sub-section (2). or any;correction made by
him under sub-section (3) or any amendment made under section 234(4) [sub-section in newly added section providing
for amendment of certiﬁcate on reduction etc. in any pro-
ceeding under the Act]. *

(1) Notwithstanding that a, certiﬁcate has been issued Scctirn 234-
to the Collector for the recovery of any tax, the Income- 01, g;':°c:f1_
tax Oﬂicer may grant time for the payment of the tax and man; '0,
thereupon the Collector shall stay the proceedings until the with walof

_ expiry of the time so granted. . 'mi '°- [Ne
(2) Where a certiﬁcate for the recovery of tax has been
issued, the Income-tax Officer shall Ice 3 the Collector in-
formed of any tax paid or time ' anted dr payment. subse-
quent to the issue of/such c ﬁcate. I ' _

(3) Where the order giving ' e to a demand of tax for
which a certiﬁcate for recov has been issued has been
reduced in appeal or other proceeding under this Act but
is the subject-matter of further proceeding, the Income-tax
Oﬂicer shall stay the recovery of such pdrt of the amount of
the certiﬁcate as pertains to he sai eduction, for the
period for which the appeal' other _, eeding remains
pending. : 'V H 3 ' ' 234 Clauses 234-235

_ (4) Where a certiﬁcate or the recovery of tax has been
issued and subsequently t amount of the outstanding
demand is reduced as a result of an a eal or. other pro-
ceeding under this Act, the Income-tax er shall, when.
the order which was the sulzject-matter of such appeal or
other proceeding has become ﬁnal and conclusive, amend.
the certiﬁcate or withdraw it, as the case may be. gﬂgnmgggé (1) Notwithstanding the issue a certiﬁcate to the Col- of move" lector under section 2331 [46(2) main para], the Income-tax

[L 45, EXPL, Oyfﬁcer may recover the tax by any one or more of the

latter] half modes provided in this section. part. [s. 46 (_=,)] (2) If any assessee is in receipt of any income charge-
able under the head "Salaries", the Income-tax Olﬁcer may
require any person paying the same to deduct from any
payment subsequent to the date of such requisiti any
arrears due from such assessee, and such person sha(l)lbcom-
ply with any such requisiticm and shall pay the sum so
deducted to the credit of the Central Government, 'or as
the Central Board of Revenue directs. Salary exempt from attachment in execution . of a

decree of a civil court under section 60 of the Code oﬂ Civil: sessee or any person who holds or may subsequentl hold
money for or on account of the assessee, to pay to t e In-
come-tax Oﬂicer either forthwith upon the money om-
ing due or being held or at or within the time speci _ in
the notice (not being before the money becomes due or is
held) so much of the money' as is sufficient to pay the
amount due by the assessee in "respect of arrears ..... ..,'.....or
the whole of the money whm it is equal to or less? than
that amount. [.. 4'6 (5A), (ii) A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to t

15' t-1 Para» sessee at his last address known to the Income-tax O cer.
par . [5, 45 (5,3), (iii) Where a person to whom a notice under thi sub- 6th pa-ra~] section is sent objects to it on the ground that t sum
demanded or any part thereoil is not due to the asses e or
that he does not hold% any for or on account the
assessee, then, nothing conta' e in this sub-section shall
be deemed to require such erson to pay any suc
or part thereof, as the case m y be...._....., if the Inc
Oﬁicer is satisﬁed about the correctness of such obje

 
 
 

[s- 46 (5A)» (iv) The Income-tax Oﬁicer may at any time or :,flT)l_Tt

2'" p"""] time -to time amend revo . ny notice issued und this
sub-section or extend ' or making any paqm it in
pursuance of such no 'ca * *

..4 235 Clauses 235-238

. (_v) The Income--ta.7_c Officer shall grant a receipt for any [5, -45 (5A),-
amount paid in compliance with a notice issued under this 3fd para}
sub-section, and the person so paying 'shall be.- fully dis- '
charged from his liability to the assessee to the extent of
the amount so paid. ~ . (vi) Any person discharging any liability to the assessee [s. 4.6 (5A),
after receipt of a notice under this sub'-section shall be per- 4th para] V
sonally liable to the,Income-tax Oﬁicer to the extent of his
own liability to the assessee so discharged or to the extent

of the assesee's liability .... ..f<xr tax, interest and penalties,
whichever is less. . ' (vii) If the person to whom a notice under this sub- [s.:46 (5A),'
section is sent fails to make payment in pursuance thereof 5"' P3"-1
to the Income-tax Officer, further proceedingsmay be taken
against him for the realisation of thefiamount as if it were
an arrear of tar due from him, in the manner provided in sections 231 to 234 [ S. 46(2) ], and the notice shall have the
same effect as an attachment of a debt by the Collector in
exercise of his powers under section. 231 [46(2)]. '

(4) The Income-tax Oﬂicer may 'apply to the court in [New]
whose custody there is money belonging to the assessee for
payment to him of the entire amount «of such money, or,
if it is more than the tax due, an amount sufficient to dis-
charge the tax. (5) The Income-tax Oﬂicer may, if so authorised by [s.:4.5(3) and
the Commissioner, proceed to recover the tax by distraint (421
and sale of the movable pr erty of the assessee in the
manner laid in the Third Sc edule. . \
If the recovery of tax in any area has been entrusted to Section 236 . a State Government under article '258(1) of the Constitu-- R$'°°V¢'3S'
tion, the State Government may direct with respect to that-afﬂmgize
area or any part thereof, that tax shallbe recovered there- 6 (-6)] .
in with, and as an addition to, any municipal tax or local [" 4
rate, by the same person and in the same manner as the
municipal tax or local rate is recovered. For the purposes of sect(i§)n 231 [il6(2)], the expression senion 237. [s. 46A (2),
main para] 236 (ﬂauses 239-241
The provisions of sections 237 and 238 [ Section 46(8) and (9)] shall remain in force only so long as there are in '

force similar provisions in the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 ,
as in force as part of the law of Pakistan or under any other
similar Act forming part of the law of Pakistan for "the
recovery of tax by a Collector in Paksitan on receipt of a
certiﬁcate from an Income-tax Oﬁicer in India. Any sum imposed by way of penalty under the provi-
sions of section 282 [Sub-section (9) of section 18A], sec-
tion 281 [Sub-section (2),of 25], section 280 [ Section 28 ],
or section 279 [Sub-section -(6) of Section 44E], or payable
under section 230 [Sub-section (1) of section 46 ], and any
interest payable under the provisions of sections 221 , 223 , 224 and 225 [Sub-section (4), (6), (7) or (8) of section 18A]
and any other sum payable under the provisions of this
Act, shall be recoverable in the manner provided in this
Chapter for the recovery of arrear of tax. (1) Subject to such exceptions as may be made by the
Central Government, no person who is not domiciled in
India, or who, even if domiciled in India at the time of
his departure, has, in the opinion of an Income-tax autho-
rity, no intention of returning to India, shall leave the terri-
tory of India by land, sea or air unless he ﬁrst obtains from
such authority as may be appointed by the Central Gov-
ernment in this behalf (hereinafter in the section referred
to as the "competent authority") a certiﬁcate stating that
he has no liabilities under this Act, the Excess Proﬁts Tax
Act, 1940, or the Business Proﬁts Tax Act, 194-7, or the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 , or that satisfactory arrange-
ments have been made for the payment of all or any of
such taxes which are or. may become payable by that per-
son : section (1) applies, to travel by such ship or aircraft without

5 ﬁrst satisfying himself that such person is in possession of

[S- 45A (3)1

a certiﬁcate as required by that sub-section, he shall be
personally liable to pay the whole or any part of the amount
of tax, if any, payable by such person as the Income-tax
Oﬁicer may, having regard to the circumstances of the
case, determine. ,

(3) In respect of any sum payable by the owner or
charterer of' any ship aircraﬂ; ;under sub-section (2),'the
owner or charterer, 380516 case may be, shall be deeme to

1'
: ing to recovery] as if it were an arrear of tax. (4) The owner or charterer of every ship or aircraft, [New]
which takes passengers on board on any port or place in
India for any place outside India, shall, within one month
from the departure «of the ship or the aircraft from that port
or place, furnish to the Commissioner having jurisdiction
over the area in which that port or place is situated, a list
in the prescribed form showing the name and last known
address in India of every person (other than members of
the crew and the staff of the ship :or aircraft) who travelled
on the ship or aircraft and the particulars of the certiﬁcate
or the exemption certificate presented by such person under
this section. (5) No proceedings shall be commenced for enforcing [New]
the liability under sub-section (2) after the expiry of two
years from the date on which the list required to be filed
under sub-section (4) is ﬁled. (6) The Central Government may make rules for regu- [9, 46A (4)]
lating any matter necessary for, or incidental to, the pur-
pose of carrying out the provisions of this section. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the ex- [s. 46A (2),
pressions "owner" and "charterer" include any represen-- EXPI-l
tative, agent or employee empowered by the owner or
charterer to allow persons to travel by the ship or aircraft. Save in accordance with the provisions of section 183 Section 242 .
[ Section 42(1) ] or 229(6) [second proviso to section 45 ], Period for

'-and except as otherwise provided in section 241(5) [new commencing

sub-section in section 46A , laying down a limit of 2 years], '°°°"°cfjX
no proceedings for the recovery of an sum payable under P'°°° "'8" peal is disposed of; 5 4 '

[s- 46 (7). Expl., earlier
half] Section 243 . Recovery by
suit or under
other law

[s. 4.6 Expl. latter half,
part] Section 244 . Recovery of
tax payable
under provi- sional assess- ment. [S- 2313 (5)] Section 24 .5. Tax paid by
deduction or
advance pay- mcnt. [S- 233 (5)1 238 Clauses 242-245 (ii) where recovery proceedings in any case have been
stayed by any order of a court, .......... .. from the
last day of the ﬁnancial year in which the order is

I withdrawn; (iii) where the date of payment of tax has been extend-
ed by an Income-tazx authority to another date,
from the last day of the ﬁnancial year in which
such other date falls; '

where the sum payable is allowed to be paid by
instalments, from the last day of the ﬁnancial year
in which the last of such instalments is due. (iv)

Explanation.----A proceeding for the recovery of 2 any
sum shall be deemed to have commenced within the mean-
ing of this section, if some action is taken to recover the

whole or any part of the sum within the period herein-«

before referred to ................... .. The several modes of recovery speciﬁed in this Chapw

ter shall not affect in any way- (a) any other law for the time being in force relating
to the recovery of debts due to Government ., ..... .. - or

.~ . . . . . . . . . .., (b) the right of the _Government, to institute a suit for
the recovery of the arrears due from the assessee; and it shall be lawful for the Income-tax Officer ...... 
or the Government, as the case may be, to have recpurse
to any such law or suit notwithstanding that the tart due
is being recovered from the assessee by any .......... .. mode
speciﬁed in this Chapter. E

E--Ta.x payable under provisional assessment. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that

the provisions of section 229 , [all sections embodyin any
part of section 45 ] except section 229(5) [45, 1st Prov. , and sections 230 to 239 [all sections embodying any pa, of section 46 ] apply in relation to any tax payable in ' rsu-
ance of a provisional assessment made under sections 45(1) and 145(2) , [s. 23B(1)] as if it were a regular asses ent

made under section 147 or 148 [23(1) to (5)]. Tax paid or deemed to have been paid under sections
201 to.213 [all sections embodying any part of section
18 ] or sections 215 to 228 [alltsections embodying any part
of section 18A] in reqrect of any income provisionally as-
sessed under sections. 145(1) and 145(2) [ section 23 ?(1)],

shall be deemed to . E e beenjipaid towards the provi ional. assessment. g ,1; i 239 Clause 246

CHAPTER XIX
TAX DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN PAID ON DIVIDENDS S°°"°" 246'

Tax deemed
to have been
(1) ............. .. Any sum by which a dividend has been §::$s°" d""'
increased under section 59 [ section 16(2) , main para, latter '8
half] shall be treated as a payment hf income--tax (exclu- ELM' pag)
sive of super-tax) ............. .. by the shareholder ............. ..;ear1;er 1,315,
and credit shall be given to him therefor on the produce Part]
tion of the certificate furnished under section 167 [20], [s._ :8 (5),
in the assessment. if any, made for the assessment year ml" Pam

referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (2) : ha" sessed on a company by any State Government, and where
any shareholder proves that the company has been so as-
sessed to agricultural income-tax. he shall be entitled to
the reduction from the tax yﬁyable ltys him under this Act
of a sum equal to---- 3 4 2 240 Clauses _ 246-249 (a) the appropriate agricultural income-tax (reduced
by the amount of refund, if any, allowed to him by
the State Government), or (b) the appropriate Indian Income-tax on the amount
of the dividend which has not been increased under section 59 , [ Section 16(2) , main para, latter half]

whichever is the less. Explanation.--In this sub-section,- (a) "appropriate agricultural income-tax" means such
proportion of the agricultural income-tax as the
amount of dividend which has not been increased
under section 59 [ S. 16(2) , main para, latter half]

4 bears to the total proﬁts of the company assessed
to agricultural income-tax; and

\ (b) "appropriate Indian Income--tax" means such pro-
portion of the income-tax payable by the share-
holder under this Act as the amount of dividend
which has not been increased under section 59 [ S.
16(2) main para, latter half] bears to the total in-
come of the shareholder. CHAPTER XX
REFUNDS section 24 % If any person ............. .. satisﬁes the lncome-tax Officer
Refunds .................................................................................... ..
[s- 48 (1)) .................................................................................... ..
that the amount of tax paid by him or on his behalf or
treated as paid by him or on his behalf for any assessment
year exceeds the amount with which he is properly charge-
able under this Act, for that year. he shall beentitledfto a
refund of the excess. . Section 248 ,

Person emi_ (1) Where income of one person is included under, any
tledw claim provision of this Act in the total income of any Other
refund in cer- person, the latter alone shall be entitled to a refund under
tain special this Chapter in respect of such income. cases. [s- 48 (3)1 , _ _

[5, 49 F] (2) Where through death, incapacity, bankruptcy, liqui-
dation or other cause, a person ............. .. is unable to claim
or receive any refund due to him, his executor, administra-
tor or other legal representative, or the trustee or guardian
or receiver, as the case may be, shall be entitled to claim -
or receive such refund .......... ..for the beneﬁt of such per- Section 249 . son or his estate. £3: (1) Every claim for refund under this Chapter shall be

 manner. '

refund and made in the prescribed form and veriﬁed in the prescﬁbed
[New] : or other matter decided which has become ﬁnal and conclu- :o,a"°,:,'m°{,';
sive ............. .. or ask for a review of the same, and the Qjlestioned.
assessee shall not be entitled to any relief on such claim [s_ 43 (4)1

except refund of tax wrongly paid or paid in excess. If, within a period of three months from the date on Section 252 which a claim for refund is made under this Chapter, the I'"°'°3t-
Income-tax Officer does not pass an order thereon, the Cen- [New]
tral Government shall pay the claimant simple interest at
the rate of two per cent. per annum on the amount directed
to be refunded from the date on which the claim is made
to the date of the order directing the refund. Where under any of the provisions of this Act, a re- section 253 fund is found to be due to any person. the Income-tax Set off
Officer, Appellate Assistant Commissioner or Commis- Of _ refund!
sioner, as the case may be, may, in lieu of payment of the :9:l""i' 33" 1011 254. (a) an order against the assessee, being a company, Appcmblc
under section 113 , [23A(1) main 'para, operative orders. Part]; [s. _ '30 (It), (b) an order of assessment under section 147 or 148 ""'" P""']
[sections 23(1) to (5)], ........... .. where the as- sessee objects to the amount of income assessed,
or to the amount of tax determined, or to the
amount of loss computed, or to the status under
which he is assessed; 'As the section hasbeen broken ﬂute n erous clauses, reference I0 pro- : _ en

visign has not been given foreach cl , and, verbal changes have not itali-
cis ' ' a 242 A Clause 254

1' (c) "an order under section 151 [27] refusing to'

reopen an. assessment made under section 148 [23(4) mam para, part authorising best judgment
assessment] ; (d) an order under section 161 or 162 [section'35],

where the assessee -objects to the amendment made
or refused thereunder; (8) an order adverse to the assessee, where the assessee

denies his liability to be assessed under this Act; (f) an order under; section 180(2) or 180(3) [ section
26(2) Proviso]; (g) an order under section 181 [25A]; (h) an order refusing to register a ﬁrm under section

192(1)(b) [section in the Chapter on Firms relating
to refusal of registration because there was no
genuine ﬁrm in existence in the previous year] or
under section 192(6) [ section 23(4) main para,
latter part relating to refusal to register a [ﬁrm
because of failure to ﬁle return etc. leading to best
judgment assessment]; (i) an order cancelling the registration of a ﬁrm under section 193(1) [section .in the Chapter on Firms au-- thorising cancellation of registration because there . was no genuine ﬁrm] or under section 193(2) [sec-
tion in the Chapter on Firms corresponding to section 23(4) . main para, part. authorising §can-
cellation on such failure. as leads to best judgment
assessment]; (j) an order levying interest under section 224 [18A(7)]; (k) on order under section 229(5) [s. 45, 1st Prov.]; (I) an order under section -233(2) [new section ire : be veriﬁed in the prescribed manner. Form of ap-
peal? and

. litnilation. ' (2) The appeal shall. ordinarily be presented within B' 3° (3)1
thirty days of the following date, that 'L8 to say,-- 5' '3° <2)'

part] (a) where the appeal relates to any tax deducted under section 204(1) [18(3B)], the date of payment of the Q 5
tax, or ' , '2 (b) where the appeal relates to any assessment. interest
or penalty, the date of receipt of the notice of de-
mand relating to the assessment. interest or pen-
alty, or (c) in any other case, the date on which intimation of ,
the order sought to be appealed against is received '
(3) .......... .. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner may [s. lo (2),
admit an appeal after the expiration otf the said period if Pa" day and place for the hearing of the appeal, and shall give appm1_
notice of the same to the appellant and to the Income--tax [S :31 (1)
Officer against whose order the appeal is preferred. .,;,,i.:, pm] '
(2) The following slhall have the right to be heard at [s.d §3)
the hearing of the appea -- 4- A , . 9" 0"- (a) the appellant either i-nlperson $11 by an authorised, 
/representative; * ' 244 Clauses 258-259 (b) the Income-tax Officer, either in person 'or by a

representative. [-8- 3! (I). (3) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall have
13"°'Pa"] the power ............. ..to adjourn the hearing of the appeal'. from time to time. [s. 31 (2)1 (4) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner may. before'
disposing of any appeal, make such further inquiry as he
thinks ﬁt, or may direct the Income-tax Oﬁicer to mal<':e fur-
ther enquiry and report the result of the same to the Ap-
pellate Assistant Commissioner. [s- 31 (2A)] (5) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, at the
hearing of an appeal, allow the'appellant to go into any
ground of appeal not speciﬁed in the grounds of appeal, if
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is satisﬁed that the
omission of that ground from the form of appeal was not
wilful or unreasonable. [New] (6) The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
disposing of the appeal shall be in writing and shall state
the points for determination, the decision thereon and the
reasons for the decision, and the relief, if any, to which the

"appellant is entitled. B' 3' (5)1 (7) On the disposal of the appeal, the Appellate Assis- tant Commissioner shall ............. ..communicate the order

passed by him to the assessee and to the Commissioner. 56<=ti0n 259- (1) In disposing of an appeal, the Appellate Assistant

Powers of the Commissioner shall have the following powers-
Appellate As- sistant Com- (a) in an appeal against an order of assessment, he may
missioneh conﬁrm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment;
£:h31'(§)l;C;']F" or he may set aside the assessment and refer
[,_ g 343), the case back to the Income-tax Oﬁicer for making
main para, a fresh assessment in accordance with the directions
C1«(a)l given by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
[5-. 31(3), and after making such further enquiry as may be
"('b)]pa'a' necessary, and the Income-tax Oﬁicer shall there- upon proceed to make such fresh assessment and
determine, where necessary, the amount of tax
payableion the basis of such fresh assessment; [s. 31(3), (b) in an appeakéigainst an order imposing a penalty,

main Para, he may con m or cancel such order or va it so
C" (01 as either to enhance or to reduce the pena ty; [s. 31(3), (c) in any other case, he may pass such orders in the
main Para. appeal as he thinks ﬁt. CL (c), (d). (6), (8) and

E91" ) N (2) .......... ..The Appellate Assistant Commissioner -shall
p;.,3§,_f ' not enhance an assessment on a penalty unless the ap llant

has had a reasonable opportunity of showing cause gainst
such enhancement.- , ' ' - l 245 Clauses 259-261

Explanation.--In disposing of an appeal, the Appellate [New]

Assistant Commissioner may consider and decide any mat-
ter determined by the Income-tax Oﬂ'i_cer in the course of
the proceedings in which the order appealed against was
passed, notwithstanding that such matter was not raised
laefore the Appellate Assistant Commissioner by the appel-
ant. B----'-Appeals to the High Court. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), any Section 260 ..
assessee aggrieved by any of the following orders mayAppea1ab1c~

appeal to the High Court ............. ..against such order---- <[ardm. ( )
S. I , (a) an order passed by an Appellate Assistant Commis-1653"] (I)
sioner under section .......... ..280 .......... ..[28(1) and PM 33 " sioner under section 259 [31(3) embodied in sec- Part]
tion dealing ,with powers of Appellate_ Assistant

Commissioner] ; (c) any order passed by the Appellate Assistant Com- [New] -missioner rejecting or dismissing an appeal without
. a decision on the merits; (d) .......... ..an order passed by the Commissioner under [s. 338(3),. section 271(1) [ S. 33B(1) ]. p . Part]

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), the [s. 33(2),car-.
Commissioner may, if he objects to any order passed_by an 11°F Part]
Appellate Assistant Commissioner under section 259 [31
(3) as embodied in section for powers of Appellate Assis-
tant Commissioner], appeal to the High Court against such
order .......... .. (3) Where the amount or value of the subject matter [New]
in dispute in appeal to the High Court is rupees seven
thousand ﬁve hundred -or more, an appeal shall lie under
this section both on a question of fact and on a question
of law; but where the amount. or value of the subject mat-
ter in dispute in such appeal is below rupees seven thousand
five hundred, the appeal shall lie only on a question of
law. - '

(1) The appeal to the High Court shall be ﬁled within Section 26 : it within that period. 7 1 . 1'

t 246 Clauses 262-268

Scfction 262. The appeal to the High Court shall be in such form
F0" 0' 'P' and shall be veriﬁed in such manner as may be prescribed

Egg' 3§(33g by the Supreme Court by rules made under this Chapter. §l:)c}ig:n]263. Subject to such rules as may be made bylthe Supreme

Powers and Court in this behalf, the powers to be exercised and the
P"'°"d"gE- procedure to be followed by the High Court in respect of
}[,:;,,] (5)' appeals under this Chapter shall be the same as those appli- cable in respect of appeals to the High Court against the
original decrees of courts subordinate to it. semen 25+ (1) ....... ..The appeal shall be heard by a Bench of not

Hearing by less than two Judges of the High Court and shall be decid- Iéench-66A ed in accordance with the opinion of such Judges or of

m'ain pang'), the majority, if any, of such Judges. [3, 55A(,) (2) .......... ..Where there is no such majority, the Judges

Pi-ov.] shall state the point .......... ..upon which they differ, and the
case shall then be heard upon that point only by one or
more of the -other Judges of the High Court. and such
'point shall be decided according 'to the opinion of the
majority hf the Judges who have heard the case. including
those who ﬁrst heard it. Section _255. A copy of the judgment of the High Court shall be
t(.3°m":f""'°§' sent to the Commissioner. to the Appellate Assistant Com-
i:l°;'p;,ea','_' '3' missioner and to the assessee; and the Commissioner shall
[5, 55(5), cause such steps to be taken as may be necessary to give
part

effect thereto. .......... ..The costs of the appeal shall be in the discre-
[ Er;-(6)1 tion of the High Court. a ' '
s. _ Section 267 . (1) Notwithstanding that an appeal has been pneferred

Refund cons- under this Chapter to the High Court, the refund,:if any,

"'l"°"1"a1 °" due to the assessee shall be made, unless the High Court

 makes an order authorising the postponement of the pay-
ment of the refund until disposal of the appeal. (2) If, as a result of the appeal to the High Court, the Section 266 . [5, 66(7),

PIOVISO-1 amount of an assessment is reduced .......... .., the amount- over-paid shall be refunded with such interest as the High
Court may ﬁx, unless the High Court, on intimatio given
by the Commissioner within thirty days of the repeipt -of
the result of such appeal that he intends to ask for leave
to appeal to the Supreme Court, makes an order authorising
the Commissioner to postpone payment of suchil refund
until the disposal of the appeal by the Supreme Court or
the rejection of the application for leave to appeal, as the
case may be. '

C----Appeals to the Supreme Court. Section 268 . An appeal sh 1 lie t gig Supreme Court f In any
'_A alable judgment of the ' h Co , livered on an appea prefer-
1" "'°'"- red under section 60 [66(l)§main para, part' emb , led in

' 247

Clauses 268-271

section for appealable order] in any case which the High [s. 66A(2)] _
gourt certiﬁes to be a ﬁt one for appeal to the %upreme '
ourt. (1) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , l908, Section 269 relating to appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as He Minus
may be, apply in the case of appeals under section 268 b::';':'g;:r'f
[S. 66A(2)] in the like manner as they apply in the caselgoflgw '
of appeals from decrees of a High Court: [s. . 66A(3),

Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed In %;i;rXi3),

to affect the provisions of section 263 or 265 [ S. 66(5) ] or 1st Prov.
.......... .. section 273 [66(7), main para]. Part]

(2) The costs of the appeal shall be in the discretion [New]
of the Supreme Court. (3) Where the judgment of the High Court is varied [s_55A(4)_]
or reversed in the appeal,...._ ...... ..eiTect shall be given to
the order of the Supreme Court in the manner provided
in section 265 [ S. 66 , sub-section (5)] and section 267 [ S.
66(7) Prov.] in the case of a judgment of the High Court. D----Appeals to the Central Board of Revenue. (1) Any employer objecting to an order of the Com- Section 270 missioner refusing to recognise or an order withdrawing APP!=-313 to
recognition from a provident fund ma appeal to the Cen- gm .dC':."{{"1
tral Board of Revenue in accordance with the provisions of °" ° c'

section 301 [58B(4)]. ~ E§';§fj

(2) Any person in respect of whom a direction disquali-
fying him for representing an assessee ' made under section
324(4) [ S. 61(3) , main para, latter haliﬁ may appeal to the
Central Board of Revenue in accordance with the provi- sions of section 324(4), Proviso [ S. 61(3) , Prov. (b)]. E--Revision by the Commissioner. (1) The Commissioner may call for and examine the sec;_io_n 27;
record of any proceeding under this Act, and if he con» Re 131°" ,0'
siders that any order passed therein by the Income-tax Offiéggc '15 't';°{:_'
cer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests V, e_
of the revenue, he may, after giving the assessee an oppor- [s. 3B(:)]
tunity of being heard and after making or causing to be ,
made such inquiry as he deems necessary; pass such order
thereon as the circumstances of the case justify, including
an order enhancing or modifying the' assessment, or can-
celling the assessment and directing a fresh assessment. (2) No order shall be made under sub-section (1)- (a) to revise an order of ' re-assessment made under [ .33B(2)]
the provisions of section 152 [34(1), (a) (b) power
to reopen], or (b) after the expiry of t years ﬁfiiom the date of the 5
order sought to be rev ed. ' '~ '

_ is Section 272 Revision of
other orders. [s-_ 33A(I)»
main para,
1' _ 33A(2): either of his own motion or on an application by the assessee
for revision, .......... ..call for the record of any proceeding
under this Actin which any such order has been passed
.......... .., and may make such inquiry or cause such inquiry
to be made and, subject to the provisions of this Act, may
pass such order thereon, not being an order prejudicial to
the assessee, as he thinks ﬁt. (2) Where an application for revision was made by the
assessee, he shall be given an opportunity of being heard
before the application is disposed of. (3) The Commissioner shall not of his own motion re-
vise any order under this section if .......... ..the order has
been made more than one year previously. (4) In the case of an application for revision under this
section by the assessee, the application must be made with»
in one year from the date on which the order in question
was communicated to him or on which he otherwise came
to know of it, whichever is earlier: ing or has been disposed of on the merits. (6) Every application by an assessee for revision under
this section shall be accompanied by a fee of twenty-ﬁve
rupees. A

'1 -249
Clauses 272-277

Explanation 1.--An order by the Commissioner declin- [8-3s_A(2)2ud
ing to interfere shall, for the purposes of this section, be P'°""°3
deemed not to be an order prejudicial _to the assesses. Explanation 2.------For the purposes of this section, the [s_ 33AM,
Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall be deemed to be Expl.]
an authority subordinate to the Commissioner. F--General section 273 Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred n':tw.3: a firm or an association of persons is order-
ed to be made, or (b) any alteration in any assessment has to be made,
.......... ..the Income-tax Officer shall, whether or not a direc-
tion is given by the appellate authority, make an amend-
ment of the assessment so as to carry out the order of the

appellate authority, including, where necessary, an amend- ment of any assessment made on any partner of the ﬁrm
or any member of the association. In computing the period of limitation prescribed for Section 276
an appeal or an application under this Act, ............. ..the Exclaim of
day on which the order complained of was'made, and, if time rate.-nfor
the assessee was not furnished a copy of the order when °°PY- '
the notice of the order was served upon him, the time [I-57Al'
ruleqgliislite for obtaining a copy of such order, shall be ex- 1: u e . The Supreme Court may make rules, not inconsistent Scction 277
with the provisions of this Act, on all or any of the follow- ':6' "'°
ing matters, namely--- ~ C0',',',,_ (a) the powers to be exercised and the procedure to [NW1

be followed in appeals to the High Court under
this Chapter ; ' (b) any other matter which to be or ma be pres-
cribed by the Supreme Court underfhﬁs _ pter. »

» 250 Clauses 2278-280

Scctim 273 In this Chapter,--- Deﬁnitions. [S- 55(8)] (a) 'the High Court' means,---- (i) in relation to any State, the High Court for
that State ; (ii) in relation to the Union territories of Delhi and
Himachal Pradesh, the High Court of Punjab; (iii) in relation to the Union territories of Manipur
and Tripura, the High Court of Assam; (iv) in relation to the Union territory of the Anda-
man and Nicobar islands, the High Court at
Calcutta ; and (v) in relation to the Union territory of the Lacca-
dive, Minicoy and 'Amindivi islands. the High
Court of Kerala; [New] (b) "status" means the category under which the asses-
see is assessed, with reference to the Finance Act
applicable to the case, as "individual", "Hindu
undivided family" and so on. CHAPTER XXII

PENALTIES IMPOSABLE BY INCOME-TAX
AUTHORITIES Section 279 .... ..If any person without reasonable excuse fails to
Failure to comply with a notice issued under section 97 (7) [s. §44E(6),
furnish info" earlier half] the Income-tax Ofﬁcer may direct that such
"""i°" '°g"' erson shall' a a nalt not exceedin ﬁve hundred
{}§';im?°°""' igupees and a Iiuiytherpgenally of the like agnount for every
[s. "E 6 day after the inﬂiction of such penalty during which the
lane, hair] ' failure continues. 3°°'i°" 98° (1) If the Income-tax Officer, or the Appellate Atsistant
Ef°n°°?1:;¢"* Commissioner ........... .., in the course of any proceedings
in me - - - _

or improper under this Act, 1S satisﬁed that any person-- ;
distribution
of proﬁts etc.
[s.28(x),ma.in
para] (a) has without reasonable cause failed to furnish the
return of his total income which he was required
to furnish ....... .. under section 143 (1) [22(1)] or
by "notice given under section 143 (2) [sublsection
(2) of section 22 ] or section 154 [34 (1) (a) (b')] or
has without reasonable cause failed to furnish it
within the time allowed and in the man.ner re-
quired by section 1 (1) [22 (1)] .or by.such notice,
as the case ntay be, a i _ . I

2 4 -- 17-1 Law Com.I58 251 Clause 280 (b) has without reasonable cause failed to comply with
a notice under section 146 (1) Esub-section (4) of section 22 ] or section. 147(2) sub-section (2) of
section 23], or (c) has concealed the particulars of his income or de1i- berately furnished inaccurate particulars of such
income,

he .......... ..may direct that such, person shall pay by way of
penalty,--- ' (i) in the case referred to in clause (a), in addition to'
the amount of the tax, if any, payable by him, a

sum not exceeding one and a half times that am-
ount, and (ii) in the cases referred to in clauses (b) and (c), in
addition to any tax payable by him, a sum not
exceeding one and a half times the amount of the
tax, if any, which would have been avoided if the
income as returned by such person had been accept-
ed as the correct income. ~

(2) When the person liable to penalty is a registered [5,28(;),Prov. ﬁrm or an unregistered ﬁrm which has been assessed under (d)] j section 190 (b) [23 (5) (b)], then, notwiﬂistanding anything '
contained in the other provisions of th ._Act, the penalty
imposable under sub-section X1) shal be a. sum not
eacceeding--- » ' 1 4 (i) in the case referred to %in cla.uaeA(a) of subsection
(1), one and a half times the giamount of the tax
.......... ..payable by an; unregistered ﬁrm on an
income equal to the ﬁrm's total income, and (ii) in the cases referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of
sub-sect1'.on (1), .......... ..one andfgas half times the
difference between thegamountrof the tax .......... ..
payable by an unregisteijed ﬁrmgon an income equal
to the ﬁrm's total income and :the amount of the

tag: .......... ..payable by $13 unr istered firm on an
income e ual to the in me of he ﬁrm as actually
returned y it. '

. I
(3) (a) .... ..No penaltyyfor failure tot
of his total income under secti 143 (
imposed under sub-section (1)
income does not exceed the
able to tax in his case by one t '

 
 
 

l[22 (1)] shall" be 3)]

see whose total»

'mum' mount not charge- 5
e hundred rupees. (b) Where a person has failed to comply with a notice [,_,3(-,),
under section 143 (2) [sub-section (2) of section 22 ] or r;ov.qb)} section 154 [ section 34(1) (a) ( )] and roves that he has =
no income liable to tax, the pe_ alty ' ble under sub-
section (1) shall not exceed ty-ii V _pees. ish the return Es.28(' ),Pi-ov'. . 4 252 Clauses 280-282

[s.28(1),Prov. (c) No penalty shall be imposed under sub-section (1)
(C)l upon any person assessable under section 169(1) (i) read
with section 170 [42 (1) main para, latter half, part regard-'
ing liability of agent to be assessed as representing non-
resident] as the agent of a non-resident for failure to fur- nish the return .......... ..under section 143 (1) [22 (1)].
[,,23(2>] (4) If the Income-tax Ofﬁcer, or the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner, .......... ..in the course of any proceedings

under this Act, is satisﬁed that the proﬁts of a registered
ﬁrm have been distributed otherwise than in accordance
with the shares of the partners as shown in the instrument

of partnership on the basis «of which the firm has been'

registered under this Act, .......... ..and that any partner has
thereby returned his income below its real amount. he ....... ..
may direct that such partner shall, in addition to the tax.
if any, payable by him, pay by way of penalty a sum not
exceeding one and a half times the amount of tax which
has been avoided, or would have been avoided if the in-
come returned by such partner had been accepted fasihis
correct income ; and no refund or other adjustment shall be
claimable by any other partner by reason of such direc-
tions. section 23 ,_ ...... ..Where any person fails to give the notice of
Fail," to discontinuance of his business profession or vocation re-
Eivconoticc of fcquiredﬁ by sectio3_18i(3)l £25 (t) earilieiil' gait], the lgcgme.
130 n muan- ax o cer may irec a a sum s a e recovere rom
°°- him by way of penalty not exceeding the amount of tax
[5-25(2):1*"'°' Subsequently assessed on him in respect of any income

Pm] .......... ..of the business, profession or vocation up to the
date of its discontinuance. s.,c,;.,,, ,3, If the Income-tax Ofﬁcer, in the course of any pro- I,-am c5,;ma_ ceedings in connection with the regular _ assessment, is
te oforfailume satisﬁed that any assesse-- '

d - hoe: Va (a) has furnished under section 220 [sub--secti n (2)
[s. "r 18A(9), or sub-section (3) of section 18A] an esti te of
main para] the advance tax payable by him which he: knew

or had reason to believe to be untrue, or (b) has without reasonable cause failed to furnish an
estimate of the advance tax payable by im in
accordance with the provisions 'of section , 20 (3) [sub-section (3) of section 18A], ' l

'he may direct that such person shall,_ in addition to the
amount of tax, if any, payable by him, pay by way of
penalty a sum not exceeding- [3, 18A(9), (i) ....... ..in the case referred to in clause (a , one
Prov.] and a half times the. amount by which e tax
actually paid_ during ifthe ﬁnancial year immediately

i 3 253 '
Clauses 282-285

preceding the "assessment year, uhder the provi-
sions of sections 215 t0 228 [s. 18A] falls short of--- (1) eighty per cent. of the ta':c regularly assessed,
' as modiﬁed under the provisions of section 223
[18A (6)], or

(2) where a notice under section 218 [18A (1) (a),
main para, part as embodied in section regard-
mg order of Income--tax Oﬁicer] was issued to
the assessee, the amount payable" thereunder,

whichever is the less; and (ii) in the case referred to in clause'(b), one and a half '

times the amount on which

interest
under section 223 [sL 18A(6)]. is payable

(1) No order imposing a penalty -under this Chapter s¢c.;o,, 233
shall be made ............. ..unless the assessee or the partner Procedure
or the other person on whom the penalty is sought to be [s. 28(3)]
'imposed, as the case may be, has been heard, or has been

given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. (2) The Income-tax Officer shall not impose an _
under section'.28Q [s. 28(1) or (2)(] or section 282 [18A(9)]

without the previous approval of the Inspecting Assistant
Commissioner. (3) An Appellate Assistant , Commissioner, on making
an order under section 280 [28(1) or (2)], shall forthwith
send a copy of the same to the Income-tax Oﬂicer. No prosecution for an offence against this Act shall be Scclion_2'8f
agams
uccution. [8- 53(4)]

instituted in respect of the same facts on which a penalty
has been imposed under this Chapter. CHAPTER XXIII /
OFFENCES AND PROSECUTIONS
If a person fails without reasonable cause or excuse---- (a) to grant inspection or :allow copies to be taken in

accordance with the pnovisions: oif section 139 [39]; V" Bar
pl'0l

[=- 28(5)]

 
 
 

H13

01'
O!'

Y Penalty [s. 28(6)]

pee on. 20A], 166(2) [ section 21 ] 143(2) [sub--section (2) of uj-8~']i'x;cs°P'.'"'

[s. §i(c
[s. 51 (c

i

ii

_ withdrawal

[s- 5r(a)]

[5- 51(5)]

[s- 51. last part] Section 286 False state- ment in
declaration. [s- 52] Section 287 Prosecution
to be at insta- nce of Inspec- ting Assistant
Commissio- IICF. [s- 53] Section 288 Disclosure of
particulars by
public serva- nts. [5~ 54-(2) : section (9) of section 18 ] or by section 167 [ Section
20 ] to be furnished; he shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punishable
with ﬁne which may extend to ten rupees for every day
during which the default continues. If a person makes a statement in any verification under
this Act which is false, and which he either knows r be-
lieves to be false, or does not believe to be true, he ﬂail,
._ ......... .., on conviction before a Magistrate. be puni able
with simple imprisonment which may extend to six m nths,
or with ﬁne which may extend to one thousand rup s. or
with both. (1) A person shall not he proceeded against for an
offence under section 285 [51] or section 286 [52] exc pt at
the instance of the Inspecting Assistant Commissio gr. (2) The Inspecting Assistant Commissioner may either
before or after the institution of proceedings compound any
such offence. , 

(1) If a public servant discloses any particulars, t i dis-
closure of which is prohibited b section 141(2) [S. (2),
earlier part, as incorporated in Cliapter on Income-ta Au-
thorities], he shall, 'on conviction before a Magistra e, be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend 0 six
months, and shall also be liable to ﬁne. ; (2) No prosecution shall be instituted under th'i sec-
tion except with the previous sanction of the Commisgoner. CHAPTER xxnf 
RECOGNISED PRQVIDENT FUNDS 
Recognition '

(1) The Commissioner....,.... may accord reco 'tion
to any provident fund which, in his opinion, satisﬁ the

. conditions prescribed in section 290 [58C. embodied i sec-. tion for conditions] and the rules made thereunder}, and
may, at any time, withdraw such recognition if, in h' opi-
riiion, the provident fund cojiizravenes any of thos con- itions: ' - ea

s
I' . Q' a

,...........4... z.---«

., l-_ .._;, * r" "yr

. 58(»C) (1) (g) latter part], satisfy the, conditions set out by . 255',

Clauses 289-290
Provided that the Commissioner may,-- (a) subject to such conditions; if any, as he may con-
sider necessary. accord recognition to any provi-
dent fund maintained by an enterprise which has
been exempted from any or all of the provisions
of any scheme framed under the Employees' Pro-
vident Funds Act, 1952 , notwithstanding that any 19 of 1952.
of the conditions menstioned in section 290 [58C
embodied insection regarding conditions] are not
satisﬁed ; and . (b) withdraw such recognition if, in his opinion, the
provident fund contravenes any of the conditions
subject to which recognition» was accorded by him. (2) An order according recognition shall take effect [s. 58B(2).]
on such date as the Commissioner may ﬁx in accordance
with any rules the Central Board of Revenue may make
in this behalf, such date not being later than the last day
of the ﬁnancial year in which the onder is made. (3) An order withdrawing recognition shall take effect [s. ;8B(3).]
from the date on which it is made. 3

(4) An order according 'recognition to a provident [s. $813 (3A)]
fund shallgnot, unless' the Commissioner otherwise directs, *
be affected by the fact that the fund is subsequently amal-
gamated with another provident fund bn the occurrence of
an' amalgamation of the undertakings, in connection with
which the two funds are maintained, or fthat it subsequent-
ly absorbs the whole or a pant of anqther provident fund
belonging to an undertaking which is wholly or in part
transferred to or merged in the undertaking of the em-
ployer maintaining the first mentioned fund. - In order that a provident fund mayreceive and I'e'ta1n.Scciion 290
recognition, it shall, subject to the provisions of section Conditions to
291 [s. 58C(l) Provisos to cls; (a), (b), (d). 58J (4), 58(D),bc satisﬁed

below and any other conditions which Tithe Central Govern- 1-33°
ment may, by rules, prescribe--- ' [s. 583(1)
0135 1118 (a) All employees shall be employpd in India, or shall [s.
be employed by an employer ; whose principal (3). min
place of business is inrlndia. P"'',-]

a: » at 1 as = (b) The contributions of ' an e loyee in any year [s. 3580(1)'

shall be a deﬁnite proportion of his salary for that (b).% main _

year, and shall be' dedt1cted.b3i the employer from P'-"+1
the employee's salary in that proportion, at each l
periodical payment 0 such fry in that year,

I

 

and credited to the Individual account»
in the fund. ' 256 Clauses 290-291

3 u g

 530") (c) ...The contributions of an employer to the in-
' dividual account of an employee in any year shall
not exceed the amount of the contributions of the
employee in that year, and shall be credited to
the employee's individual account at intervals not
exceeding one year. [s- 5800,) (d) The fund shall consist of contributions as above
('$31 "W" speciﬁed and of donations, if any, received by the
P " trustees, of accumulations thereof, and of interest

(simple and compound), credited in respect of such
contributions, donations and accumulations, and
of securities purchased therewith and of any ca-
pital gains arising from the sale, exchange or
transfer of capital assets of the fund, and of no
other sums. * ¥ 3
%:'H58(°) (0 (e) The fund shall be vested in two or more trustees

or in the Official Trustee under a trust which shall
not be revocable save with the consent of all ,the

beneﬁciaries. . . 580(1) (f) The employer shall not be entitled to recoveij any
' sum whatsoever from the fund, sav! in cases

where the employee is dismissed for misconduct
or voluntarily leaves his employment otherwise
than on account of ill-health or other unavoidable
cause before the expiration of the term of service
speciﬁed in this behalf in the regulations of. the
fund. In such cases the recoveries made by the employer
shall be limited to the contributions made by him to the
individual account of the employee, and to interest (sim-
ple and compound) credited in respect of such con ribu-
tions and accumulations thereof, in accordance wit the
regulations of the fund. " vice under any law for the time being in force, may, whe-
ther he receives from the employer any salary or not, .con-
tribute to the fund during his service in the armed forces
of the Union or while so taken into or employed in the
national service a sum not exceeding the amount he would
have contributed had he continued to serve the employer. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section
290(d) [58C(l)(d) main para] or section 290(g) [58C(1) (g), earlier part],-- (a) at the request .... .. made in writing by the em-
ployee who ceases to be an employee of the«em-
ployer maintaining the fund, the trustees of the
fund may consent to retain the whole or any part
of the accumulated balance due to the employee
to be drawn by him at any time on demand; (b) where the accumulated balance due to an employee
who has ceased to be an employee is retained in
the fund in accordance with clfause (a) of this sub-
section, the fund may consist also of the accumu-'
lated balance due to "the e loyee ..... ..'..and of
interest (simple and compoun ) in respect thereof

(-4) Subject 'to any rules which the -Central Govern-
ment may make in this behalf, the Commissioner may, in
respect of any particular fund, relax the provisions of sec-
tion 290(c) [58C (1) (c)]---- (a) so as to permit the payment of larger contribu-
tions by an employer to the individual accounts
of employees whose salary does not exceed ﬁve
hundred rupees per mensem; and (b) so as to permit the crediting by employers to the
, individual accounts 'of emplpyees 'of periodical
bonuses or other contributions of a contingent
nature, where the calculation and payment of such
bonuses or other contributions is provided for on
deﬁnite principles by the regulations of the' fund. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 290 (h) [58C(1)(h)], .... .. in order to enable an employee to
pay the amount of tax assess» d on total income as de-
termined under section 299(
tled to withdraw from the

alances his "credit in the

[5- 58_C(!) b) Proviso]. [s. » 580(1)

(3), '
paw]

5300)

(dj, Provism]

[..i§so.1

[s- 's8J(a.).1

[5sJ~l(§].s,, he shall be enti- . '

latter 258 Clauses 291-296

recognised provident fund a sum not exceeding the dif-
ference between such amount and the amount to which
he would have been assessed if the transferred balance
referred to in section 299(3) [s. 58J(3)] had not been in-
cluded in his total income. section 292 Where there is a_ repugnance between any regulation
Rcpugnancy of a recognised provident fund and any provision of this
;. 1-¢gu[3ﬁon5_ Chapter or of the rules made thereunder, the regulation
[3, 53(;(,)_] shall, to the extent of the repugnance, be of no effect. The Commissioner may, at any time, require that -such
iepiégnance shall be removed from the regulations of the
un . Treatment of contributions and balances. Section "293. Any sum paid by an employer by way of contribution
EmP193b:¢r'-5 towards a recognised provident fund shall be deducted in
ﬁ(';:"'"fl'en computing his income for the purpose of assessment.'
deducted in
assessing his
Income. [New] That portion of the annual accretion in any previous section 294 . year to the balance at the credit of an employee partici-
Employe,-S pating in a recognised provident fund as consists of--;' (a) contributions made by the employer in excess of
buti0ns_ ten per cent. of the salary of the employee, and 4
when écemcd (b) interest credited on the balance to the cred t of
;'c'C:fv;3°°'§° the employee in so far as it exceeds one-thi, of
cmploym Y the salary of the employee or is allowed at agrate
[s. 58E.] . exceeding the rate ﬁxed by the Central Go em- réient in this behalf by notiﬁcation in the O cial

azette, '

shall be deemed to have been received by the emp yee
in that previous year and shall be included in his _ota1
income for that previous year, and shall be liable t¢ in-
come-tax and super-tax ? section 295_ An employee participating in a recognised prov '2 ent
Employee's fund shall be entitled to a deduction, from the amou t of

contribqtions income-tax on his total incomeiwith which he is charg ble .
' g"°'"P"°" for any assessment year, of an amount equal to the i - [ST'58F_] tax calculated at the average rate of income-tax on his own

contributions to his individual; account in the fund in the

previous year, in so far as the aggregate of such contribu-
, tions .... ..does not exceed one-ﬁfth of his salary in that pre- vious year or eight thousand rupees, whichever is less. _ ....... ..The accumulated balance due and becoming Fay-
Scction 296. able to an employee participating in a recognised provi ent
£:1C,:,T:lE,t:d fund shall be excluded from the computation of his otal

clusion from income---- total income. [s. 58G (2)

,E.;.;L,é,7l§ti(); (1) if he has rendﬁ conwuous service withfiis em. vno, part] ' player for a p d of e years or more, or

2.59

Clauses 296-299 (ii) if, though he has not rendered such continuous ser-
vice, the Commissioner ....... .., being of the opinion
that the service has been terminated by reason of
the employee's ill-health, or by the contraction or
discontinuance of the employer's business or other
cause beyond the conﬁol of the employee, allows
the employee the beneﬁt of this section. .(1) Where the accumulated balance due to an employee Section 297 .
participating in a recognised provident fund is included in Tax 0,, am...
his total income owing to the provisions of section 296 [58G muluted ba-
(2)] not being applicable, the Income--tax Officer shall ca1- '9-"W
culate the total of the various sums of income-tax and [8-58G(3)]
super-tax which would have been payable by the employee
in respect of his total income for each. of the years con-
cerned if the fund had not been a recognised provident
fund, and the amount by which such total exceeds the total
of all sums paid by or on behalf oflsuch employee by way
of tax for such years shall be payableby the employee in
addition to any other income-tax and super-tax for which
he may be liable for the previous year in which the accu-
mulated balance due to him becomes payable. (2) Where the accumulated balance due to an employee [s. I 58G(1).
participating in a recognised provident fund which is not lattdr part]-
included in his total income under the provisions of section
296 [58G (2)] becomes payable ....... .., an amount equal to
the aggregate of the amounts of super<tax on annual ac-
cretions that would have been payable-under section 58E of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, for any assessment year ,1 gr 1922,
upto and including the assessment year 1932-1933, if the if
Indian Income--tax (Second Amendmen Act, 1933. had come ,3 3 ,933_
into force on the 15th March, 1930, s l" be payable by the 1
employee in addition to any other tars: payable by him for
the previous year in which such balance becomes payable. The trustees of a recognised provident fund, or any Scciiion 298. '

person authorised by the regulations of? the fund to make don at
payment of accumulated balances due' to employees, shall, 50,, of in-
in cases where section'297 (1) £58G(3)}§ applies, at the time c
an accumulated balance due 0 an em loyee is paid, de- Yab
duct therefrom the amount payable uxl r section 297 (1) 3 °" E

C68. (1) Where recognition is accorded :';.to a provident fund sec on 299,
with existing balances, an account shall be made of the T, tmmt of
fund up to the day before the day on which the recognition baﬁace in
takes eﬁect, showing the balance to tile', credit of each em-' n; Y recog-
ployee on such day, and containing such further particulars "ST P"°"" nue may make in this behalf, the Income-tax Officer shall
make a calculation of the aggregate of all sums com rised
in. a transferred balance which would have been lia 1e to
income-tax if this Chapter had been in force from the date
of the institution of the fund, without regard to any tax
which may have been paid on any sum, and such aggregate
(if any) shall be deemed to be income received by the em-
ployee in the previous year in which the recognition bf the
fund takes effect and shall be included in the employee's
total income for that previous year, and, for the purposes
of assessment, the remainder ofthe transferred b ance
shall be disregarded but no other exemption or reli f, by
way of refund or otherwise, shall be granted in respect of
any sum comprised in such transferred balance: [s. 58--I]

Section 301. Appeals. [3-' 58 3(4)]

such form and for such periods. and shall contain such
particulars, as the Central Board of Revenue may, pres-
cribe. i

(2) The accounts shall be open to inspection at all rea-
sonable times by Income-tax authorities, and the trustees
shall furnish to the Income-tax-Oﬂicer such abstracts there-
of as the Central Board of Revenue may prescribe. An employer objecting to an order of the_ Commis-
sioner refusing to recognise or an order withdrawing ecog-
nition from a provident fund , y appeal, within _s1xt days
of such order, to theiCentrali card of Revenue. 3 1 261 Clauses 301-303

. The appeal shall_be in the form and shall be verified in
the manner prescribed by the Central Board of Revenue. (1) Where an employer who maintains a provident fund Section 302.
(whether recognised or not) for the beneﬁt of his employees Treatment of
and has not transferred the fund or any portion of it, trans- fundtfamfcr
fers such fund or portionto trustees in trust for the em- 'id by °"" - eating to
tion 59]. _ ml' . / [s. 53 L.]

(2) In addition to any power conferred by this Chap-
ter, the Central Government may make rules- (a) 'prescribing the statements and other information
to be submitted with -an application for recogni-
tion ; ' ' (b) limiting the contributions to a recognised provi-
dent fund by employees of a company who are
shareholders in the company ; (c) providing for the assessment by way of penalty of
any consideration received by an employee for an
assignment of, or creation of a charge upon, his
'geneﬁcial interest in a recognised provident

und ; (d) determining the extent to and the manner in
which exemption from payment of income-tax and
super-tax may be granted in respect of contribu-
tions and interest credited to the individual ac-
counts of employees _in a provident fund from
which recognition has been withdrawn; and (e) generally, to carry out the purposes of this Chap-
ter and to secure such further control » over the
recognition of provident fun land the adminis- ,
tration of recognised provide _ {funds as it may ;-- nised by' _the Commissioner, in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter; (b) an "employer" means any person who maintains
a provident fund for the beneﬁt of his or its em-
, ployees, being- (i) a Hindu undivided family, company, ﬁrm or other
association of persons, or (ii) an individual engaged in a business, profession
or vocation whereof the proﬁts and gains e as-
sessable to income-tax under the head " .'roﬁts
and gains of business, profession or vocation', .... .. (c) an "employee" means an employee participating
in a provident fund, but does not include a per-
sonal or domestic servant; behalf of any employee out of his salary, or y an
employer out of his own monies, to the indi 'dual
account of an employee, but does not includv
sum credited as interest; 1 (d) a "contribution" means any sum credited by gr on

any (e) the "balance to the credit" of an employee means
the total amount to' the credit of his individual
account in a provident fund at any time; of an employee means the increase to such b lance
in any year, arising from contributions a ,d in-
terest; ' (f) the "annual accretion" to the balance to the Eredit (g) the "accumulated balance due" to an em loyee
means the balance to his credit, or such p rtion
thereof as may be elaimable by him under the
regulations of the fuhd, on the day he ceases to
be an employee of the employer maintaining the
fund; and ' (h)_ the "regulations of a .-fund" means the specia* body
of regulatio ' gove " g the constitution a ad-
ministration'? fa pa ular provident fund. ,. 4' 5 l
1? l

»' .I:~
2 am .I 263 Clauses 306-30.7

CHAPTER xxv
APPROVED SUPERANNUATEON FUNDS

Approval

(1) The Central Board of Revenue may accord appro- Section 306.
val to any superannuation fund or any part of a superan- -"PPT°V"""" tees of that fund a reasonable opportunity of being heard
in the matter. (1) In order that a superannuation fund may receive SecI::on3o7.
and retain approval, it shall satisfy the 'conditions set out Con<"ti0nI
below and any other condition: which the Central Govern- f°" '°""" sion of annuities for employ g s in the trade or
undertaking on their rqtiremen at or after a speci-
ﬁed age or on their beboming ncapacited prior to
such retirement, 'or for the \idows, children or
dependants of persons ?Who arq or have been such

employees on the deatli of thoqeipersons; and (c) the employer in the trade or undertaking shall be '
a contributor to the fund, i 1

(2) ....... ..The Central Bo ad of avenue may, if it [s. 51:,

thinks ﬁt and subject to sup cond ibhs, if any, as it Prov 1

thinks proper to attach to the approval', approve a fund or
any part of a fund-- - (i) notwithstanding that the rules of the fund provide
for the return in cerrt{ain contingencies of contribu-
tions paid to the fu d, or (ii). if the main purpose of e fun is the provision of

such annuities as afo said, ' fthstanding that
such provision is not i sole p e, or - t 264.

Clauses 307-310 (iii) notwithstanding that the trade or undertaking in
connection with which the fund is established is
carried on only partly in India. [New] (3) Where there is a repugnance between any rules of
an approved -superannuation fund or the terms of the in-
strument under which the fund is established and any pro-
vision of this Chapter or of the rules made thereunder, the
rules of the fund or the terms of the instrument under
which the fund is established, as the case may be, shall,
to the extent of the repugnance, be of no effect; and the
Central Board of Revenue may at any time require that

' such repugnance shall be removed from the rules of the
fund or the terms of the instrument, as the case may be. section 303, (1) An application for approval of a superannuation
Application fund or part of a superannuation fund for any assessment
'°' 3PP'°"a'- year shall be made in writing before the end of that year
[=- 58 Q] by the trustees of the fund to the Income-tax Officer by
whom the employer is assessable; and shall be accompanied
by a copy of the instrument under which the fund is estab-
lished and by two copies of the rules and of the accounts
of the fund for the last previous year for which such ac-
counts have been made up. The Central Board of Revenue
may require such further information to be supplied as it
thinks proper. (2) If any alteration in the rules, constitution, objects
or conditions of the fund is made at any time after the
date of the application for approval, the trustees of the
fund shall forthwith communicate such alteration to the
Income-tax Oiﬁcer mentioned in sub-section (1), and in
default of such communication any approval given ;sha11,
unless the Central Board of Revenue otherwise orders, be
deemed to have been withdrawn from the date on which
the alteration took effect. . E

.Treatment of investments and contributions. Section 09. , _ . . r . Income mm approved superannuation fund, and any capital gains aris-
investmcnts. ing from the sale, exchange or transfer of capital assets of
[s. 58R main such fund, shall not be included in the total income bf the
Para» Part] person in receipt thereof. . Section 310. .... ..Any sum paid by an employer .... ..by way at con- F-mp1_°ver'= tribution towards an approved superannuation fun shall

 .... ..be deducted in computing' his income .... ..for the pur- Pcducﬁon pose of assessment: - ' 3

01'. [s. 58R, main ? Para. part] Provided .... ..that where the contribution is not 23 ordi- [s. 58R, 2nd nary annual contribution, it shall be treated as_ the entral

Pr°V-] Board of Revenue may direct, either as a deduction for the
year in which -the sum is paid, or as a deduction to be
spread over such petiod of years as the Central Bohrd of
Revenue thinks proﬁer. ' %

.... ..Income derived fromfinvestments or deposits of an

265 '

Clauses 311-315

Where the assessee is an employee participating in an 5°°*i°n 1;!!-
approved superannuation fund, any sum paid in the pre- f'"'P'F'bV°°'
vious year by him by way of contribution towards the super- -°"'" "'
annuation fund shall, in so far as such sum is an ordinary exempt.
annual contribution, be treated for allthe purposes of this [s_ 531;, min
Act as if it were a sumto which the provisions of section pan, part
88 [15] apply. .and_ 1 1st

. proviso

Where any amount standing to the credit of an em- Section 3m_
ployee in an approved superannuation fund is paid to the Contribution
employee during his lifetime but not at or in connection PM '° W-
with the termination of his employment, the amount so pl°"°°_Wh°" . that employee to an approved superannuation fund, he shall if?' 9" °f '

include all such deductions or payments in the return b.,t;;,n:°mf,: tions made before the fund or part of the fund ceased to

be an approved superannuation fund under the provisions

of this Chapter. 266 i 3 '
Clauses 316-317 

aglg The ltrusteeshof ant aglgpiéovetd superannugctlion fubd
. an em 0 er w 0 con ri u es 0 an approv supe

E: ,.£';;,::he.,(} tio¥1 furliod syhall, when required by notice from the I
supcrannua- tax Ofﬁcer, within such period, not being less than'

tion f"nd=- one days from the date of the notice, as may be 3
[s. 58V] in the notice, furnish such return, statement, part'

information, as the Income-tax Oﬁicer may require. 4: a n: s an e ' an. an e /__,
\ V A_ | ~ - at an t 3 8 0 O 3 I

'are it t :3 e an at an ; 5°°ti°n 317- (1) All rules made under this Chapter shall be i bject

£'§;:i°"s'f; to the provisions .of section 329(4) [sub-section (5) 'f sec- 1-u1cs_ . [NW1 . . . '

(2) In addition to any power conferred by this Chapter,
the Central Government may make rules--- , ' (a) prescribing the statements and other informaiion to
be submitted with an application for appr val; (b) prescribing the returns, statements, particul rs, or
information which the Income-tax Oﬁicer y re-
quire from the trustees of an approved super nnua-
tion fund or from the employer; ; \ (c) limiting the ordinary annual contribution a i any ~
other contributions toan approved superann tion
fund by an employer; A I (d) providing for the assessment by way of pe lty of
any consideration received by an employee or an
assignment (if, or "creation of a charge up , 

beneﬁcial interest in 'an approved superann tion

fund; e (e) determining the extent to and the manner in hich
exemption from payniernt of income-tax and per-
tax may be granted in respect of any paymen made
from a superannuation fund from which ap al
has been withdrawn; Y (f) providing for the withdrawal of approval ' the
case of a fund which ceases to satisfy the r uire-
ments of this Chapter or of the rules made ,here-
under; and 5 (g) generally, to carry out the purposes of this pter
and to secure such further control over the appro-
val of superannuation funds and the administration
of approved superannuation funds, as it may deem

requisite. Clauses 318-320 '

In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise 'requires,-- Section 318
. Deﬁnitions. (21) "approved superannuation fund" means a super- [s. 58N'1
annuation fund or any part of a superannua-
tion fund which hm been and continues to
be approved by the Central Board of Revenue in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; 77 H (b) "employer , employee" and "contribution" have, in
relation to superannuation funds, the meanings
assigned to those expressions in section 305 [58A]
in relation to provident funds; _ (c) "ordinary annual contribution" means an annual
contribution of a ﬁxed amount or an annual con-
tribution computed on some deﬁnite basis by refe-
rence to the income chargeable under the head
"Salaries", the contributions or the number of mem-
bers of the fund. CHAPTER XXVI
MISCELLANEOUS

A.--Miscellaneous provisions. Income which has once been charged to income-'-tax or Section 3x9.
super-tax in the hands of any person for any assessment Barbfdoublc
year shall not be charged again to income-tax or super- 3"3{1'1°"A""'
tax, as the case may be, in the hands of the same person, °' ° °" ed on the person therein named either by post or as if it S°"'*.°°- °f
were a summons issued by a court undera the Code of Civil 
Procedure , 1908. 5 ongog,

(2) Any such notice or requisition may be addressed- (a) in the case of a ﬁrm or a Hindu undivided family,
' .......... ..to any member; of the ﬁrm or to the mana-
ger "or any adult male member of the family; (b) in the case of a local authority, company, or other
association of persons, ........ .., to the principal
officer thereof ; (c) in the case of any oth persom(gnot being an indi.- ;
vidual), to the person who mfqages or controls i
his afairs. E 2 A ~ A
18--l Law Com.I58. 2.68

Clauses 321-323

 32:3 (1) After a findinﬁi of total partition has been recorded
noﬁcc when by the Income-tax O Y _cer under section 181 [25A] in res-
family is pect of any Hindu famil , notices under this Act in respect

gisruptid 9: of the income of the Hin u family shall-
rm e c., is _ , . _ _
dissolved. T (a) in the case of a notice under section 154 [sub-section

[New (1) of section 34], be served on all personswho were
members of the Hindu family immediately before
the partition and the legal representative of any
such member who is deceased ; and (b) in other cases, be served on the person who was
the last mana er of the Hindu family, or, if such
person is dea , then on all adults who were mem-
bers of the Hindu family immediately before the
partition. (2) Where a ﬁrm or other association of persons i dis-
solved, notices under this Act in respect 0 the
income of the ﬁrm may be served on any person who was
a partner (not being a minor) or member of the ﬁrm or
association, as the case may be, immediately before its dis- solution. §°°''.°" 3"} _ Where an assessment is to be made under sectio 185
 ﬁfe [25(1)], or section 91(1) [section 25(3), latter half 0 sec-
cm or (5,- tion 25(4) main para, latter half], the Income-tax cer
continued may serve on the person Whose income .......... ..is to be - b"'"'°3'- assessed, or in the case of a ﬁrm, on any person iwho

It 25 (6)1 was a member of such ﬁrm at the time of its dibcon-I
tinuance, or, in the case of 1 company, on the pri cipal
ofﬁcer thereof, a notice containing all or any of the re uire-
ments which may be included:.in a notice under sectio 143
(2) [s. 22(2)], and the provisions of this Act shall, far
as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a riotice
issiled under section 143(2) 22(2) ]. T: before... ....... ..any Income-taxauthority in connection with A °8ran_°e
any proceeding under this Act otherwise than when requir- :'eV':"'h°t"s°d
ed under section 136 [37] to attend personally for examina- ,i3:,°s°n 1'

tion on oath or aﬂirmation, may, subject to the other pro- 5 61 (1)

visions of this section, attend by an authorised representa- pg";
tive. (2) For the purposes of this section, "authorised repre-
sentative" means a person authorised by the assessee in
writing to appear on his behalf, being- gsa; ]61 (1). (i) a relative of or a person regularly employed by [Sp 61 (In
the assessee ; or .......... .. payt] (ii) ...... ..any officer of a Scheduled Bank with which is 51 <2)<01
the assessee maintains a current account or has
other regular dealings ; or (iii) any legal_practiti_oner who is entitled to practise [s_5, (2)(;;)]
in any civil court in India ; or -. .. . 6 (iv) an accountant , or £2" ' ('l (v) any other person who, immediately before the [sf 5, M
commencement of this Act,;, was a lawyer, an pan, and
accountant or an Income-ta.rV practitioner within 515(2) (M1
the meaning of sub-section (2) of section 61 of I
the Indian Income--tax Act, 1922, and was actually ,1 {or 192,
practising as such. ' 2

Explanation;--In this section, "accountant" means a [§_-. 51 (2)
chartered accountant within the meaning of the Chartered ("W
Accountants Act, 1949, and includes, in relation to any State, 33:" '949
any person who by virtue of the PT0v1lsions of sub-section '

(2) of section 226 of the Companies Act', 1956, is entitled to I 3% !955
be appointed to act as an auditor of companies registered j
in that State. . ; ment service after the 1st day.ofsApril;, 1938, shall be.quali- m n . para. ﬁed to represent an assessee under sub-section (1); and if P

any legal practitioner or .......... ..accountant is found guilty 

of misconduct in connection with an%income--tax proceed-
t

(3) No person who has been dismissed from Govern-[23:61 (3),

ings by the authority empowered to t Q disciplinary action
against members of the profession 'which he belongs.
.......... ..he shall be thenceforward disqualiﬁed to represent

an assessee .......... ..under sub-section (1).
A (4) ....... ..If any person, other than a legal practitioner 55- . 5' (3)
or accountant, is found guilty of .......... ..misconduct in con- :'3't']' 9"'

nection with any income-tax proceedings by the prescribed
authority, the prescribed aut rity , direct that he shall u
be thenceforward disqualiﬁed' to relpws nt an assessee un-
der sub-section (1) : 2 if 5

[s. 61
Prov.]

(3)!

[New]

[I of 1922. Section 32 5 . Receipt to
be given. [s. 62]

Section 326. Indemnity. [s. 65]

Section 327-
Bar of suits in
civil court. [s. 67]

Section 328. Act to have
effect pend- ing legislative
provision for
charge of tax. [s. 67 B]

Section 329. Power to
make rules. [s. 59]

270 _
Clauses 324-329
Provided that- (a) no such direction shall be made in respect of any

person unless he is given a reasonable opportunity
of being heard; (b) any person against whom such direction is made
may, withinone month of the making of the direc-
tion, appeal to the Central Board of Revenue to
have the direction cancelled ; and A (c) no such direction shall take effect until one month
from the making thereof, or, when an appeal is
preferred. until the disposal of the appeal. (5) A person disqualiﬁed to represent an assessee by
virtue of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 61 of
the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922. shall be disqualiﬁed to
represent an assessee under sub-section (1). A receipt shall be given for any money paid or recover-
ed under this Act. Every person deducting, retaining, or paying any-'tax
in pursuance of this Act in respect of income belonging to
another person is hereby indemniﬁed for the deduction, re-
tention, or payment thereof. No suit shall be brought in any civil court to set aside
or modify any assessment made under this Act, and no
prosecution, suit or other proceeding shall lie against any
officer of the Government for anything in good faith done
or intended to be done under this Act. If on the 1st day of April in any assessment year pro-
vision has not yet been made by a Central Act for the
charging of income--tax or super tax for that assessment
year, this Act shall nevertheless have effect until such pro-
vision is so made as if the provision in force in the preced-
ing assessment year or the provision proposed in the 'Bill
then before Parliament, whichever is more favourable to
the assessee, were actually in force. B--Rules. (1) The Central Board of Revenue may, subject to the-
control of the Central Government, by notiﬁcation in. the
Gazette of India, make rules for carrying out the purposes
of this Act and .for the_,ascertai§1Inent and determinatio of
any class of income. Suph rules'-may be made for the w ole
of India or for such part thereiof as may be speciﬁed. «'

E 271 Clause 329

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the fore-
going power, such rules may--- (a) prescribe the manner in which, and the procedure
by which, the income ............. ..shall be arrived at
in the case of- (i) income derived in part from agriculture and in
part from business; (ii) persons residing out of India; (b) provide for the determination of the value of any
perquisite chargeable to tax under this Act in such
manner and on such basis as appears to the Central
Board of Revenue 'to be proper and reasonable; (c) prescribe the procedure to be followed on applica-
tions for, refunds; (d) prescribe the procedure for giving effect to the
terms of any agreement for the grantingof relief
in respect of double taxation or for the avoidance
of double taxation which may be entered into by
the Central Government under this Act; (e) provide for the maintenance of a register of persons
other than legal practitioners or accountants as
defined in section 324(2), Explanation [61]; practis-
ilng before Income-itax authorities and for fthe con-
stitution of, and procedure to be followed by, the
authority referred to in sub-section (4) of section
324 [61]; A - (f) provide for the issue of certificates verifying the
payment of tax byxtssessees ; 3 (g) provide for any matter which by this 'Act§ is to be
or may be prescribed. . g

(3) In cases coming '_ er clause (a) of_sub-se tion (2),
where the income .......... .. able to tax cannot be eﬁnitely
ascertained, or can.be ascertained only with an a ount of
trouble and expense to the :assessee which in th opinion
of the Central Board of Revenue is unreasonable, e rules
made under that sub-section may---- 3 (a) prescribe methods 'by which an estimatelof such
income .......... ..may be made, and ' (b) in cases coming under sub-clause (i) of clause (a)

' of sub-section (2), prescribe the proportion of the

income which shall be deemed to be income .......... ..
_liable to tax; and an assessnuent ba 'V ;on such estimate or p ' portion
shall be deemed t? be d irnade in accordance ith the

provisions of this ct. ' I

SCH. I 272
(4) All rules made. under this section shall be laid
before each House of Parliament as soon as may be after
they are made, and shall be sibject to such modiﬁcations

as Parliament may make in the session in which they are
so laid or the session immediately following: ductions for business] ' {computing income c ge-
able under the sjhead " = oﬁts and gains of busi ess,
profession or vocation" «

 

 

(2) .......... ..The amount to be allowed asmanage ent
expenses under sub--rule (1) shall not exceed the aggre ate
of the following-- i (a) 7% per cent. of the premiums received duringi the
previous year in respect of single premiumglife
insurance poliqies;.......£..... l 2 .4

,, -- , i I 1. Not drafted. See notes, $:r a di¢c1.qi+y' of theimporta.nt'point:. ' 273 in respect of the first year's premiums received
in respect of other life insurance policies for which
the number of annual premiums payable is less than
twelve, or for whichithe number of years during
which premiums are payable' is less than twelve,
for each such premium or each such year 7% per
cent. of such ﬁrst year's premiums received during
the previous year; .......... .. 0°) (c) 90 per cent. of the first yearlspremiums received
during the previous {year in ' respect of all other
life insurance policies; .......... .. in respect of all renewal premiums received during
the previous year, an amount calculated at such
percentage thereof as is permissible under sub-
section (2) of section 40B of" the Insurance Act,
1938 , as reduced by any expenditure
not deductible under? sectionai 30 to 40 [sections
regarding business deductions] in computing in-
come chargeable unddr the hdad "Proﬁts and gains
of business, profession or vocation". (d)

In computing the surplus for the purpose of rule 2,
[Schedule, rule 2]---- . (a) four-fifths of the amounts paigdito or reserved for
or expended on behalf of policy-holders shall be
allowed as a deduction: 2

tti ***

t** **t

Provided .......... ..that if any amaéunt so reserved for

,policy-holders ceases to be so' reservejd, and is not paid to

or expended on behalf of policy-holdqrs, that proportion of
such amount (one-half or four-ﬁfths.-s;a's the case may be)
if it has been previously allowed as as deduction under this
Act or under the Indian Incp,rne-tam' Act. 1922, shall be
treated as part of the surplus' for thd period in which the
said amount ceased to be so reserved: V j (b) any amount either ' itten gor reserved in the
accounts or through e act ' 1 valuation balance
sheet to meet deprec" tion of loss on the realisa-
tion of investments all be ' lowed as a deduction.
and any sums taken écredit ii in the accounts or
actuarial valuation balance heet on account of
appreciation of or gaiiis on t realisation of invest-
ments shall be included in t e" surplus : tral Government which have been issued or
declared to be income-tax free, shall not be
excluded, but (ii) no income-tax shall be payable on the annual
average of the amount of such interest ....... .. Rule 4. Where for any 'year an assessment of the proﬁts of life
Adjustment insurance business is made in accordance with the annual
of tax Pflid average of a surplus disclosed by a valuation for an inter-
:'3's;'$1:e°"°"valuation period exceeding twelve months, then, in com-
S h ' puting the income-tax payable for that year, credit shall
[ ° "Rule 4] not be given in accordance with section 207 [ Section 18 (5) ,
main para, part regarding credit for tax deducted at
source] for the income-tax paid in the previous year, but
credit shall be given for the annual average of the income- tax paid by deduction at source from interest on securities '

or otherwise during such period. B--Other insurance business. Rule 5. The profits and gains of any business of insurance other
Computation than life insurance shall be taken to be the balance of
g{h§r'°§::ur:f thﬁ pﬁlroﬁts disclosegl bg theh airinual _accXunts1,9§gpi¢s gt - . w ic are require un er t e nsurance ct, , ' ye
me busmcss furnished to the Controller of Insurance, subject t the
[S°h" R"}f5 following adjustments---- -- earlier alf

93"] (a) any sum written oﬂ"in the accounts as representing
40? I933« depreciation 0 any building, machinery, plant or
[New] furniture use for the purposes of the business

shall be allowed as a deduction, whether such-f sum
is or is not admissible under the provisions 0 sec-
tion 32(1) clauses (i) and (ii) [10(2) (vi)'l, s feet
to the condition that the aggregate of all such d duc- tions allowed under this Act or under the Indian

11 of I922 Income--tax Act, 1922, or under any Act repealed by
that Act or under executive orders issued whe' the
Q of 1335 . Indian Income-tax Act, 1886, was in force, sh l, in
no case, exceed the original cost to the assesspe of
the building, machinery, plant or furniture, at the
case may be; '
'[Sch.,Ru|c 6, -(b) subject to the other provisions of this rule, any de-
<=a'"°T ha" duction which is not admissible under the provi- ness deductio ] in c u my the profits and aims
of a business 1 ll be d back: . Pam sions of sections 30 tﬂlﬂ Sections regarding ' usi.
.. $1. 4"- 275 a sea. I (c) any amount either written off or reserved in the [Sch-.Ru1¢5
. accounts to meet depreciation of or loss on the rea- 'I33' 
lisation of investments shall be allowed as a deduc- Rule Mb) 1
tion, and any sums taken credit for in the accounts
on account of appreciation of or gains on the rea-
lisation of investments shall he treated as part of
the proﬁts and gains. C~Other provisions. (1) The proﬁts and gains of the branches in India of Rule 6. .a person not resident in India and carrying on any business P'°ﬁ'3 and

gains of non- of insurance, may, in the absence of more reliable data, resident pep
(be deemed to be that proportion of the world income of son,

such person which corresponds to the proportion which 1115 [sclhkuxe 3,
premium income derived from India bears to his total para x]

premium income. (2) For the purposes of this rule, the World income in [Scl_|.,Ru1c 8,
relation to life insurance business of a person not resident Part 2]
in India shall be computed in the manner laid down in this

_Act for the computation of the proﬁts and gains of life

insurance business carried on in India. (1) For the purposes of rules 1 to 6 [other rules regard- t _
ing insurance business] and of this rule,-- tic" ma (i) "gross external incomings" means the full amount [Sci-, Rule
of incomings from interest, dividends, ﬁnes and 5(ii)]
fees and all other incomings from whatever
source derived (except premiums received from
policy-holders and interest and dividends on any
annuity fund), and includes also proﬁts from re-
versions and on the sale or the granting of annui-
ties, but excludes proﬁts on the realisation of in-
vestments: surance business] and in this rule to the Insurance Act,
1938 , or any provision ther ,shall, in relation to t e Life
Insurance Corporation of Ind a., be construed as ref : ences
to that Act or provision as read with section 43 of the Life
Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. %

THE SECOND' SCHEDULE' 
PROCEDURE FOR RECOVERY OF TAX 
[See section 231 (1) ]

PART I
General provisions. =,

In this Schedule, unless the context otherw e re-
quires,--- e 2 (a) "certiﬁcate" means a certiﬁcate received by t e Col-
lector from the IncoIhe--tax Officer for the r overy
of arrears under this Schedule ; -- (b) "defaulter" means the assessee mentiond in the
certiﬁcate ; (c) "execution", in relatioh to a certiﬁcate, me ns re-
covery of arrears ingpursuance of the certl ate'; (d) "movable property" includes growing crops ' (e) "oﬁicer" means an officer authorised to m 'ke an
attachment or sale under this Schedule; a p (f) "rule" means a rule contained in this Schedule. ' The provisions contained in this Schedule, though new, have
underlined for facility of re 'ng. ' This Act will heron r be xeferhe to as the "Bengal Act". 5
' Cf. S. 2(x3) , C. P. 3 5
z

trot been - 277 sex. II

When a certiﬁcate has been received by the Collector Rule 21. Issue
from the Income-tax Oﬂicer for the recovery of arrears °fN°"°e-
under this Schedule, the Collector shall ?cause to be served [5~ 7. Bengal
upon the defaulter a notice requiring the defaulter to pay c'
the amount speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate within ﬁfteen days
from the date of service of the notice and intimating that
in default steps would be taken to realise the amount
under this Schedule. No step in execution of a certiﬁcate shall be taken Rule -When
until the period of ﬁfteen days ;has elaghsed since the date f:;'"i,'§:°
of the service of the notice required by t, e preceding rule : ,,xecu,ed'

A [ S. 13,
, Bengal Act 1

Provided that, if the Collector is satisﬁed that the
defaulter is likely to conceal, remcgie or dispose of the virholle
or any part of such of his move e property as wou d e
liable to attachment in execution of af decree of a civil
court, and that the realisation of the amount of the certi-
ﬁcate would in consequence be delayed or obstructed, he
mayat any time direct, for reasons to be recorded in E
writing, an attachment of the whole or any part of such 3
property 2 -- 7

Provided further that if the defaulter whose property
has been so attached furnishes 'securit to the satisfaction
of the Collector, such attachment shall be cancelled from
the date on which such security is accepted by the Col- E
ector. If the amount mentioned in the noti 's not paid within R1119 51% M°d¢
the time speciﬁed therein or within s\$l<l1 further time as ° "3 '°"°'V'
the Collector may grant in his discretoin» the Collector 311;' 'h'?'
shall proceed to realise the amount by tune or more of the R36" Rc_

following modes :-- cover" Act,

x864 (2 of
1864) I. (a) by attachment and sale of the movable property of [5- [14 3618*!'
the defaulter; ~ ' A") (b) by attachment and sale of tlle' immovable pro- 5- if" Th'

perty of the defaulter ; 1 3°" ''

Rove ue (c) by appointing a receiver of the property belonging C°d°' '879
to the defaulter ; ' (5 of 1879)]. (d) by arrest and detentiorl of thegdefaulter in civil
prison. 'E S - - There shall be recoverable,.in the proceedings in exe- Rule 5- Inte-
cution of every certiﬁcate,-- . 7 '°-"'» °°"5
» and charges
a recov' table. (a) such interest upon the tax to which the certiﬁcate [S-I55 Bengal
relates as is payable under this Act, and Act] ; 1 This Act will hereafter be referred to as the 't l Act" ,
' This Act will hereafter be referred as the ' . bay Act".
, l E c

SCH. II ' 278 (b) all charges incurred in respect of-- (i) the service of notice upon the defaulter to pay
the arrears, and of warrants and other pro-
cesses, and (ii) all other proceedings taken for realising the
arrears. \ ' . Ru"? 5- _ (1) Where property is sold in execution of a certiﬁcate,
fimchaseas there shall vest in the purchaser merely the right, title
[3 '20 (I) and interest of the defaulter at the time of the sale. even
Bengal Ac, 1' though the property itself be speciﬁed. ;[s. 20 (2), (2) Where immovable property is sold in execution of

Bensalﬁ-ct] a certiﬁcate, and such sale has become absolute, the pur-
chaser's right, title and interest shall be deemed to have
vested in him from the time when the property is sold,
and not from the time when the sale becomes absolute. \

Rule 7. Suit (1) No suit shall be maintained against any person
*'§3"'3' W" claiming title under a purchase certiﬁed by the Collector
nag'; in the manner laid down in this Schedule, on the ground
on ground 0;' that the purchase was made on behalf of the plainti or on

purchase behalf of some one through whom the plaintiff claims.
being made . tax Officer the amount due under the certiﬁcate
in execution of which the assets were realized; (c) if there remains a balance after these sums have

been paid, there shall be paid to the Incdme-tax . Ofﬁcer therefrom any other amount recoverable
under the procedure provided by this Act' which
may be due upon the date upon which the assets
were realized; and (d) the balance (if any) remaining after the payment
of the am nt (if '£1130 referred to in clalise (c)
shall be pai {to the _ faulter. , '

1!

279 Son. II

_ (2) If the defaulter disputes any claim made by the
Income-tax Olﬁcer to receive any amount referred to in
clause (C), the Collector shall determine the dispute. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act. Rule 9.
every question arising between the Income-tax Oﬂicer and Geneytl, bar
the defaulter, or their representatives, relating to the exe--ﬁ'on J:f"d'°'
cution, discharge or satisfaction of a certiﬁcate duly ﬁled awn
under this Act, or relating to the conﬁrmation or setting save where
aside by an order under this Act of a sale held in execu- ff3ud3l1cged-
tion of such certiﬁcate, shall be determined, not by suit, but [S-37. Bengal
by order of the Collector before whom such question Am]
aI'lSE'S I '

Provided that a suit may be brought in a civil court
in respect of any such question upon the ground of fraud. (1) All such property as is by _the Code of Civil Pro- Rule lo.l'ro-
cedure. 1908, exempted from attachment and sale in execu- Fem' excmﬁt
tion of a decree of a civil court shall be exempt from attach- '°m am" '

ment and sale under this Schedule. [s_

(2) The Collector's decision as to what property is so A'7' Bcngal
entitled to exemption shall be conclusive. [Sit] ,55_ Bombay Act [S. i56,[ Bombay Act ],
(1) Where any claim is preferred to, or any objection Rule _u..
is made to the attachment or sale of, any property in execu- {)"""li§3't'°" not liable to such attachment or sale, the Collector shall gléﬁlei ﬁg'
proceed to investigate the claim or objection : Be,,'ga'q Ag" tion appiies has been advertised for sale, the Collector
ordering the sale may postpone it pending the investigation
of the claim or objection, upon such terms as to security or
otherwise as the Collector shall deem ﬁt. (3) The claimant or objector must adduce evidence to [Rule 4,0,
show that-- ' Sch- (a) (in the case of immovable property) at the date
of the service of the notice issued under this
Schedule to pay the arrears, or c (b) (in the case of movable property) at the date of the
attachment, ,

he had some interest in, or was possessed of, the property
in question,

Bengal Ahtj

(4) Where, upon the said investigation, the Collector is [Rule 4:,
satisﬁed that, for the reason stated in the claim or Qbjec- 5611- 11,
tion, such property was not, aﬁ the sat ,date, in the pos- B''"31 A''']
session of the def/aulter or of scgme per in trust for him'

Courts,'

SCH. II 280

or in the occupancy of a tienant or other person paying
rent to him, or that, being in the possession of the defaulter
at the said date, it was so in his possession, not on his own
account or as his own property, but on account of or in
trust for some other person, or partly on his own account
and partly on account of some other person, the Collector
shall make an order releasing the property, wholly or to
such extent as he thinks ﬁt, from attachment or sale. [Rule 42, (5) Where the Collector is satisﬁed that the property

Sch- IL was, at the said date, in the possession of the defaulter as

B°"3°1 A°'] his own property and not on account of any other person,
or was in the possession of some other person in trust for
him, or in the occupancy of a tenant or other person paying
rent to him, the Collector shall disallow the claim. [Rule 43, (6) Where a claim or an objection is preferred, the
Sch- 11. party against whom an order is made may institut ' a suit
Bengal Act] in a civil court to establish the right which he cl ims to
the property in dispute; but, subject to the result of such
suit (if any), the order" of the Collector shall be conclu- sive. Rule 12. Where'''

R I r . ,,,';',';§',I,",',,,,,° (a) the amount due, with costs and all charges and ex-
on satisfac- penses resulting from the attachment of any pro-
3:1; lfrt, perty or incurred in order to hold a sale, are paid

I] C 3 101'] ' I '

of ceniﬁcam _ to the Collector, or 9

R 1 ,S h- . . ix," °2134en§a1 (b) the certiﬁcate 1S cancelled, ; A-"3 the attachment shall be deemed to be withdrawn nd, in

the case of immovable property, the withdrawal all, if
the defaulter so desires, be proclaimed at his expe e, and
a copy of the proclamation shall be afﬁxed in the anner
provided by this Schedule for a proclamation of sal of im-
movable property. . Rule ,3_ The attachment and sale of movable property and the
Ofﬁccr enti- attachment and sale of immovable property may be made
tledto attach by such officers or class of officers as the Collector may
and "IL from time to time direct. E

[S- 154. latter part, i
gom]bay §

ct. Rule W Any deﬁciency of price which may happen 0 a re-
De-faulting sale by reason of the purchaser's default, and all e penses
purchaser attending such re-sale, shall be certiﬁed to the C llector
3"5W°'3b1° by the officer holding the sale, and shall, at the inst nce of

f';:a1:f'S' °" either the Income-tax Officer or the defaulter, be r cover-
[Ru1.,5,,sc},_ able from the defaulting purchaser under the procedure
II, Bengal provided by this Schedule : C

Act ]
i

Provided that n such C lication shall be ente tained
unless ﬁled within b een ' us from the date of r sale. 281 SCH. II

(1) The Collector may, in his discretion, adjourn any Rule 15-
sale hereunder to a speciﬁed day and hour; and the ofﬁcer Ad-l°:"""°"'
conducting any such sale may in his" discretion adjourn Sf-331;'? pagc
the sale, recording his reasons ﬁor such adjournment : Where an attachment has been made under this Sche- Rule 16.
dule, any private transfer or delivery of the property ?."' °. 1,
attached or of any interest therein and any payment to the if 33%,;
defaulter of any debt, dividend or otlnr monies contrary am.¢_5,mcm
to such attachment, shall be void as against all claims tobdvoid.
'enforceable under the attachment. [$.64 C.P.C .]

[s. it}, Bengal
. Act]

No officer or other person having any duty to perform Rule _;7.
in connection with any sale under tﬂis Schedule shall, Pr°!1b1"°n

either directly or indirectly, bid for, aqquire or attempt to ag"F§

01'

acquire any interest in the property sold. bidd C by

pure
oﬂic 1'. [R111 52,
Sch. II
Ben I Act.]

N 0 sale under this Schedule shall take place on Sunday Rul :8.
or other general holiday recoggiised by he State Gov:ern- Pl'°h-biti°n
ment or on any day which ha been npiﬁed by the State :§"}':"l'ida'"'°
Government to be a local holiday for} the area in which P ya'

the sale is to take place. :35,' Act]

Any oﬂicer authorised to attach or ;sell any property Rul_ 19-
or to arrest the defaulter or ;charged',: with any dut to b &f:"°°
be performed under this Schedule, mayéra ply to the officer. Y : '°°'
in-charge of the nearest police; station? r such assistance -
as may be necessary for preventing dbstruction to such
officer in the discharge of his duties, and the authority to
whom such application is ma e shallydepute a sufﬁcient
number of police officers for mishiijhsuch assistance. sea. 11 232
PART II
Attachment and sale of movable property.
Rule 20. Except as otherwise provided in this Schedule, when.
Warrant any movable property is to be attached. the officer shall be

[5-,3 (First) furnished by the Collector (or other oﬂicer empowered

'13V3I';;1('£;sPa1'*»by him in that behalf) a warrant in writing and signed. Am] with his name specifying the name of the defaulter and the
amount to be realised. Ru"? 21- 56* The officer shall cause a copy of the warrant to be serv- vicc of copy - 7,
of wanam ed on the deraulte-. [S. 8 (First) '
latter part
Madras Act]

R 1
All:chmcnf,2 is not paid forthwith, the_ officer shall proceed to attach - the movable property of the defaulter. V

Rule 23. Where the property to be attached is movable pro-
Property' in perty (other than agricultural produce) in the possession
d°fa"1"?'-5 of the defaulter. the attachment shall be made by actual
P°5S°Ss1°"' seizure, and the oﬁicer shall keep the property in his own
giggle custody or the custody of one of his subordinates and shall
' ' be responsible for due custody thereof : or the like. or fodder-stack, on or in which it 5 de- posited. _ '
and another copy on the outer door or on some other con-
spicuous part of the house in which the defaulter ordinarily
resides, or with the leave of the Collector on the outer'
door or on some other conspicuous part of the house in
which he carries on business or personally works for :gain,.
or in which he is known to have last resided or carried on
business or personally worked for gain. The produce ﬁshall
thereupon be deemed to have passed into the possession of
the Collector. Ru! e 24. Agricultural
produce. [Rule 16,
Sch. ll,
Bengal Act]

f*"l°.'.5- (1) Where agricultural produce is attached, the, Col-
,or°:;.'f;?,s,,ff lector shall make such arrangements for the custody, watch-
ral produce ing. tending, cutting and gathering thereof as he may deem
under a.tta.ch- suﬁicient ; and the Income-tax Oﬂicer shall bear such sum

m°"'- as the Collector shall' require. in order to defray the cost
glclxtllle 1117. of such arrangements» A

Bengal Ann

If, after service of the copy of the warrant the amount _

283 SCH. II

(2) Subject to such conditions as may be imposed by
the Collector in this behalf, either in the order of attach-
ment or in any subsequent order, the defaulter may tend,
cut, gather and store the produce and do any other act
necessary for maturing or preserving it; and, if the default-
er fails to' do all or any of such acts, any person appointed
by the Collector in this behalf may, subject to the li e con-
ditions, do all or any of such acts, and the costs incurred
by such person shall be recoverable from the defaulter as
if they were included in the certiﬁcate. (3) Agricultural produce attached as a growing crop
shall not be deemed to have ceased to be under attachment
or to require re-attachment merely because it has been
severed from the soil.'

(4) Where an order for the attachwmnt of a growing
crop has been made at a considerable time before the crop
is likely to be ﬁt to be cut or athered, the Collector may
suspend the execution of the or r for such time as he thinks
fit, and may, in his discretion, make a further order prohi-
biting the removal of the crop pending the execution -of the
order of attachment. (5) A growing crop which from its nature does not admit
of being stored shall not be attached under this rule at any
time less than twenty days before the time at which it is
likely to be ﬁt to be cut or gathered. '

'(1) In the case of-- . Rule (a) a debt not secured by a negotiable instrument, '9': f (b) a share in the capital of a corporation, or ; 1;,
Ben Act; (e) other movable property not in the possession of the
defaulter except property deposited in, or in the cus-
tody of, any court,

the attachment shall be made by a written order prohi-
biting,----- ' (i) in the case of the debt---the creditor from recovering 9

the debt and the debtbr "from: making 
thereof until the further order ofthe Collector ; (ii) in the case of the share:--the person in Whose name
the share may be standing transferring the
same or receiving any dividend thereon; (iii) in the case of the other moveable property (except
as aforesaid)----the person in possession of the same
from giving it over to the defaulter. (2) A copy of such order shall be aﬂixed on some conspi-
cuous part of the office of the ollect _ and another co y
shall be sent, in the case of debt, I he debtor, in t e
caseof the share, to the proper of} j corporation, and ,

19-1 Law Com.I58 J '. V " - =

 

SCH, , 11

Rule 27
Attachment
of decree. [S.19, Bengal
Act]

5 of 1908

Rule
Share
movable
property
[Rule 19. Schedule H,
Bengal Act]

Rule 29. Sal- ary of
Goverment
servants. 5 of 1908
[Rule 20,
Schedule II,
Bengal Act]

Rule 30. Attachment
of negotiable
instruments. [Rule 21,
Schedule II,
Bengal Act]

Rule 31. Attachment
of property
in custody of
Court or 28 in

public oﬂicer. [Rule 22,
Schedule II,

Bengal Act] 284 in_the case of the other moveable property (except as afore-
said), to the person in possession of the same. . (3) A debtor prohibited under clause (i) of sub-rule (1)
may pay the amount of his debt to the Collector, and such
payment shall discharge him as effectually as payment to the
party entitled to receive the same. '

(1) The attachment of a decree of a civil court for the
payment of money or for sale in enforcement of a mortgage
or charge shall be made by the issue to the civil court of a
notice requesting the civil court to stay the execution of the

decree unless and until-- . (i) the Collector cancels the notice, or (ii) the Income-tax Officer or the defaulter applies to
the court receiving such notice to execute the decree,
(2) Where a civil court receives an application under
clause (ii) of sub-rule (1), it shall, on the application of the

Income-tax Officer or the defaulter, and subject to the provi- _

sions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, proceed to execute
the attached decree and apply the net proceeds in satisfac-
tion of the certiﬁcate. '

(3) The Income-tax Oﬂicer shall be deemed to be the re-
presentative of the holder of the attached decree, and to be
entitled to execute such attached decree in any manner
lawful for the holder thereof. ' -'

Where the property to be attached consists of the share
or interest of the defaulter in movable property belonging to
him and another as co-owners, the attachment shall be made
by a notice to the defaulter prohibiting him from transfer-
ring the share or interest or charging it in any way. Attachment of the salary or allowances of servants of
the Government or a local authority may be made in the
manner provided by rule 48 of Order 21 of the First Schedule
to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, and the provisions of
the said rule shall, for the purposes of this rule, apply sub-
ject to such modiﬁcations as may be necessary. Where the property is a negotiable instrument not depo-
sited in a court nor in the custody of a public oﬁicer, the
attachment shall be made by actual seizure, and.the instru-
ment shall be brought before the Collector and held subject
to his orders. Where the property to be attached is in the custody of
any court or public officer. the attachment shall be made by a
notice to such court or oﬁicer, requesting that such property,
and any interest or dividend becoming payable thereon, may
be held subject to the further orders of the Collector by
whom the notice is issued : In the case of attachment of movable property by ac- Rule 32.
tual seizure, the officer shall. after attachment of the pro- ""'°"'°'Y-
perty, prepare an inventory of all the property attached. [S-9,.Madras
specifying in it the place where it is lodged or kept, and A°']
shall forward thelsame to the Collector. A copy of the in-
ventory shall be delivered by the ofﬁcer to the defaulter. . Rule 33. The attachment by seizure shall not be excessive, that Attachment

'is to say, the property attached shall be as nearly-as pos- not to be

.«or other customary mode.- sible proportionate to the amount speciﬁed in the war- excessive.
rant. ' l5- 14: lector may direct. [Rm Head

(2) A copy of the proclamation shal T lso be afﬁxed on,'§:Ll;d 3 4:31'
a conspicuous part of the oﬁicezlof the qllector. , Bc_ _,Act]

SCH. II 286

Ru1c39=5a1c Except where the property is subject to speedy and
3&3: ﬁf'°°" natural decay or when the expense of keeping it in custody
[R,,1;,48,Sch_ ls l1kely_to exceed its value,' no sale of moveable p1_!o_p'er1:y
II, Bengal under this Schedule shall, without the consent in writing of
A<=t-lb,[s- 167. the defaulter, take place until after the ex iry of at least
B°"' "V AC" ﬁfteen days calculated from the date on w ich a copy of

[,",',,',"§_'c,1,'f'd' the sale--proclamation was aﬁixed in the Collector's oﬂice. l0{;"l°,fg°,,.}c'?fﬁ° (1) Where the property to be sold is agricultural pro-
tural produce. duce, the sale shall be held,----- [Rule 55: poned till the next day or, if. a market is held at
the place df sale, the next market day, l

the sale shall be postponed accordingly, and shall be then
completed, whatever price may be offered for the produce. Rule 41, SW (1) Where the property "to be sold is a growing crop
c;a1p,-opgsi- and the crop from its nature admits of being storedzbut has
ons relating not yet been stored. the day of the sale shall be 0 ﬁxed
*0 8'°"'"'3 as to admit of the crop being made ready for storing before
°'°P" the arrival of such day, and the sale shall not be h ld until

§§1':1;ulc 5%' the crop has been cut or gathered and is ready forfstoring. B°"5a1A°t'] (2) Where the crop from its nature does not admit of

being stored or can be sold to a greater advanta e in an
unripe state (e.g., as green wheat), it may be sol before
it is cut and gathered ; and the purchaser shall be:entit1ed
to enter on the land, and to do all that is necessary for the-
purpose of tending or cutting or gathering the crop. Rule 42: Sale The property shall be sold by_ public auction in one or
mbeby a,uc- more lots as the officer may consider advisable, and if the
tion. amount to be real ed by ale is satisﬁed 'by the ale of a
[s. 23, Mad- portion of the pr rty, t ' l'e shall be immedint ly stop-
rﬂ A"-l ped with respect the ﬁnder of the lots. C'. 287 V sou) II

(1) Where movable property is sol by public auction, Rulc.43= _Sal.e
the price of each lot shall be aid at ,_ time of sale or glvmggbllc

as soon after as the oﬂicer Ia ding , _ sale directs, and ,

in default of payment the property all forthwith be [R"'° 57'

resold. ' S°h°d"1° Us
Bengal Act.]

(2) On payment of the purchase-money, the officer
holding the sale shall grant a certiﬁcate specifying the
property purchased, the price paid an the name of the
purchaser, and the sale shall become a solute. (3) Where the movable property to be sold is a share in
goods belonging to the defaulter and a co-owner, and two
or more persons, of whom one is such co-owner, respec-
tively bid the same sum for such property or for any lot,
the bidding shall be deemed to be the bidding of the co-
owner. . No irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale Rule44: Irre-
of movable property shall vitiate the sale, but any person $E'1.""i'V "°'l'°
sustaining substantial injury by reason of such irregularity 'fflﬂafny 
at the hand of any other person may institute a suit in a sonigjug-Cd
civil court against him for compensation, or (if such other may (sue.
person is the purchaser) for the recovery of the speciﬁc pro- gRule 58,
perty and for compensation in default of such cheﬂulc IL
recovery. B°"3Pl ["'°"]

Notwithstanding anythin contained in this Schedule, ﬁnk. Ag =
where the property to be sol is a negotiable instrument or ins°§$;:c:§s
a share in a corporation, the Collector Ina , instead of direc- and g,am in

ting the sale to be made by public aup ion, authorise the corpqarations. sale of such instrument ¢>r share through a broker. [order 2,,
, Rule 76, C.P.C .]

Where the property attached is current coin or cur- M15346: Ord-
rency notes, the Collector may, at any time during the genfof 
continuance of the attachment, direct that such coin or 0, Vlcurrcncy

notes, or a part thereof sufficient to satisfy the certiﬁcate, notes to the

be paid over to the Income-tax Oﬂicer. g'§g:=~1aX
$3' :5: Rule 53: (1) Every proclamation for the sale of immovable pro-
M0533 Of perty shall be made at some place on or near such property
§f:n::§0n?'°' by beat of drum or other customary mode, and a copy of
[Rule the proclamation shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of
sch the property and also upon a conspicuous part of the office

Bengal Actj', of the Collector. (2) Where the Collector so directs, such proclamation
shall also be published in the Official Gazette or in a local
newspaper, or in both; and the cost of such publication shall
be deemed to be costs of the sale. (3) Where the property is divided into lots for the
purpose of being sold separately, it shall not be necessary
to make a separate proclamation for each lot, unless pro-
per notice of the sale cannot, in the opinion of the Collec-
tor, otherwise be given. 1. Cf. section 28(7) , Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, and section 51 Presidency Towns insolvency Act, igog. 5

~ be entitled to make or prosecute an app

2389 SCH. II

No sale of immovable property under this Schedule R916 54:" '
shall,' without the consent in writing of the defaulter, take T"'}° °f5"1°-
place until after the expiration of at least thirty days cal- [R016 48,
culated from the date on which a copy of the proclamation Bib' l A "'
of sale has been affixed on the property or in the ofﬁce of "Ea CL]
the Collector, whichever is later. '

The sale shall be by public auction to the highest bid-- Rule 55: ﬁfteenth day from the date of the sale of the property. 360831 Act-l

In default of payment within the period mentioned in Rule 57,: speciﬁed in the proclamation of sale as that for the g3 ,
recovery of which the sale was ordered, with inter- ""33 °"]
est thereon at the rate of six' and a quarter per

cent. per annum, calculated from the date of the
proclamation of sale to the date when the deposit

is made; and (b) for payment to the purchaser, as penalty, a sum
equal to ﬁve per cent. of the purchase-money, but
not less than one rupee. (2) Where a person makes an application under the
next rule for setting aside the sale of his immovable pro-
perty, he shall not, unless he withdraw? that application. ication under this
rule. , IE ' '

SCH. II 290

gukr 650: Where immovable property has been sold in execution
10%;? gfdc of a certiﬁcate, the Income-tax Officer, the defaulter, or any
sale ofimmo. person whose interests are aﬁected by the sale, may, at
vable proper- any time within thirty days from the date of the sale, ap-
tst: on gronyld ply to the Collector on the ground that notice was not
gf":;';ff:V'g: served on the defaulter to pay the arrears as required by
imgulariw this Schedule or on the _ground of a material irregularity
gs. 213,36" al in publishing or conducting the sale : less the Collector is satisﬁed that the applicant has

sustained substantial injuiry by reason of the non- '

service or irregularity; and (b) an application made by a defaulter under this rule
shall be disailnwedunless the applicant d sits
the amount recoverable from him in execut, n of
the certiﬁcate. Rule 6_1: At any time within thirty days of the sale the pur-
Scmns aside chaser may apply to the Collector to set aside the sale on
jﬁgultxhﬁgi the ground that the defaulter had no saleable interest in
no saleable the property Sold- interest. [s.24., Bengal

Act}

Rule 62: (1) Where no application is made for setting aside the
Conﬁrmation sale under the foregoing rules or where such an a plica-
°"31°~ tion is made and disallowed by the Collector, the Colector
[s- 25,Bcnsa1 shall (if the full amount of the purchase-money ha been
"'°"] paid) make an order conﬁrming the sale, and, ther upon,

the sale shall become absolute. «

(2) Where such application is made and allowe , and
where, in the case of an application made to set asi e the
sale on deposit of the amount and penalty and charg . the
deposit is made within thirty days from the date of the
sale, the' Collector shall make an order setting aside the
sale 2

Provided that no order shall be made unless notice of
the application has been given to the persons aﬁected

Rule 53=R¢- thereby. éhhzeofmgxigy Where a sale of immovable property is .set aside, any
in certain money paid or deposited by the purchaser on account of
°aS°S- the purchase, together with the penalty, if any, deposited
551:1' for payment to the purchaser, and such interest as the

Benga1Act,]' Collector may allow, shall be paid to the purchaser. Rule 64.: Sale

f§'lﬁf;'°a'°'74 (1) Where a sale of immovable property has become

sch. 11, absolute, the Collector shall grant a certiﬁcate specifying

Bengal Act.] the property sold, and the name of the person who at the

E54-ad:;:;3s time of sale is declared to be, the purchaser. £,_ ,3" 30m. (2) Such certiﬁe 4 e shallﬁ hear date the' day on hich
ay Act.] the sale became abso te. :5 '

a 5 a person as receiver to manage the,

281 ' SCH. II

(1) Where an order for t sale of immovable roperty Rule 55: tioned therein, and notwithstanding anything contained in
thlis Schedule, to make the proposed mortgage, lease or
.sa e: ring or charging the business in any way and prohibiting
all persons from taking any beneﬁt under such transfer or
charge, and intimating that the business has been attached
under this rule. A copy of the order of attachment shall be
served on the defaulter, and another copy shall be affixed
on a cons icuous part of the remis i which the business
iésmcéxerri on and on the o tice bﬂxa of the ColIector's

. L a

SCH. II 292

Rule .69: Where immovable property is attached, the Collector -;\fPP°;§;§i1::; may, instead of directing a sale of the property, appoint a. for immow person as receiver to manage such property. able property

[s.28, Madras

Act.] [s. 159,

BombayAct.] ,

Rule 70: (1) Where any business or other property is attached.'

Powers of and taken under management under the foregoing rules,

"'°"'°" the receiver shall, subject to the control of the Collector.
have such powers as may be necessary for the proper
management of the property and the realisation of the
proﬁts, or rents and proﬁts, thereof. (2) The proﬁts, or rents and proﬁts, of such business
or other property shall, after defraying the expenses of'
management, be adjusted towards discharge of the arrears,
and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the defaulter. Rule 7:: The attachment and management under the foregoing
"¥"hdTa"'31 rules may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of
° manage' the Collector, or if the arrears are discharged by receipt

:::'MadraS of such proﬁts and rents or are otherwise paid.
A°"] PART V
Arrest and detention of the defaulter. 113"'? 7'-'° (1) No order for the arrest and detention in civil pri-
sh':)';,°';ausc'° son of a defaulter shall be made unless the Collector has.
[3 29(1) 02;) issued and served a notice upon the defaulter calling upon

ab) & (,0), him to appear before him on the date speciﬁed in the notice
Bengal Act.] and to show 'cause why he should not be committed to the
[5, 43, pm, civil prison, and unless the Collector, for reasons recorded
Madras Act.] in writing, is satisﬁed--- (a) that the defaulter, with the object or effect of
obstructing the execution of the certiﬁcate, has
after the receipt of the certiﬁcate in the Collec-
tor's ofﬁce dishonestly transferred, concealed, or re-
moved any part of his property, or (b) that the defaulter has, or has had since the receipt
of the certiﬁcate in the Collector's office, the means
to pay the arrears or some substantial part thereof'
and refusesor' neglects or has refused or neglected
to pay the same. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1),
a. warrant for the arrest of the defaulter may be issued by'
the Collector if the Collector is satisﬁed, by afﬁdavit or
otherwise, that with the object or effect of delaying the
execution of the certiﬁcate the defaulter is likely to abscond
or leave the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Collector. (3) Where appearance is not made in obedience ;to an
notice issued and served under sub-rule (1), the Collfctor
may issue a warrant for the affrest of the defaulter. 293 I SCH. II. (4) Every person" arrested in pursuance of a warrant
of arrest under sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (3), shall be brought
before the Collector as soon as practicable and in any event
within twenty-four hours of his arrest (exclusive of the
time required for journey): tention under sub-rule (1), he shall, if the defaulter is under
arrest, direct his release. (1) Every person detained in the civil prison in execu- Rule 76; tion of a certiﬁcate may be so detained.-- Detention in
and release

from prison; (a) where the certiﬁcate is for a demand of an amount [s,3,,1;c,,g,,r
exceeding ﬁfty rupees--for a period of six months, Act.]
and ' - (b) in any other case--for a period of six weeks: perty and has placed it at the disposal of the Collector and
that he has not committed any act of bad faith. (2) If the Collector has ground for believing the dis-
closure made by a defaulter under sub-rule (1) to have been

untrue, he may order the re-arnest of the defaulter in execu- '

tion of the certiﬁcate. but the period of his detention in the
civil prison shall not in the aggregate exceed that authoris-
ed by the preceding rule. (1) At any time after a warrant for the arrest of a de-
faulter has been issued, the Collector may cancel it on
the ground of his serious illness. _

(2) Where a defaulter has been arrested, the Collector
may release him if. in the opinion of the Collector, he is
not in a ﬁt state of health to be detained in the civil pnison. (3) Where a defaulter has been committed to the civil
prison, he may _be released therefrom by the Collector, on
the ground of the existence of any infectious or contagious

desease, or on the ground of his suffering from any seri- ous illness. (4) A defaulter released under this rule may be re-
arrested. but the period of his detention in the civil prison
shall not in the aggregate exceed that authorized by this
Schedule. 'For the purpose of making an arrest under this Sche-
dule-- (a) no dwelling house shall be entered after sun-set
and before sun-rise; (b) no outer door of a d _lling house shall be b -ken
open unless such dwe' g house or a portion t ere-
of IS in the oecupan ' the defaulter and e or

. = 2

i
f

295 SCH. I1

other occupant of the house refuses or in any way
prevents access there'to;but, when the person exe-
cuting any such warrant has duly gained access to
any dwelling house, he may break open the door
of any room or apartment if he has reason to

believe that the defaulter is likely to be found
there; (c) no room, which is in the actual occupancy of a
woman who according to the customs of the coun-
try does not appear in 'public, shall be entered into
unless the officer authorised to make the arrest has
given notice to her that she is at liberty to with- draw and has given her reasonable time and facility
for withdrawing. The Collector shall not order the arrest and detention Nule,89=.
in the civil prison of---- P'°§';:'t";':cu
0 WOIIIOD. 01'
minors etc. (a) a woman, or [S- 33» 3011831

_ . Acti[s. 4.8, (b) any person who, in his opinion, is a minor or of M3 a8Act-1
unsound mind. mar VI
Miscellaneous. "Jim 
med to he

Every Collector or other officer acting under this Sche- judi-
dule shall, in the discharge of his functions under this ﬁlly-
Schedule, be deemed to be actingjudicially within the E{'ct4']3'B°"3'J
meaning of the Judicial Ol'ﬁcer's Protection Act, 1850. ,8 ,;,~,35o_

Every Collector or other oﬂicer acting under the provi- ',1. ' 3, ,
sions of this ﬁchedule shall have the ._'powers of a civil court owcrto tale
for the purpose of receiving evidence, administering oaths €'"d°"°°- enforcing the attendance of witnesses and compelling the 42.361301
production of documents. "'1

No certificate shall cease to be in force by reason of ule

8 : apply as if the legal representative were the defaulter. (1) An appeal from any original order passed by the Rule 85: Rule
Subsistence
allowance. [Rule 78: . (3) Every appeal under this rule must be presented
within thirty days from the date of the order appealed
against. (4) Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, shall
apply to appeals under this rule. (5) Pending the decision of any appeal, execution of the
certiﬁcate may be stayed if the appellate authority so di-
rects, but not otherwise. (6) No appeal shall lie from any order passed on appeal
under this rule. Any order passed under this Schedule may, after notice
to all persons interested, be reviewed by the officer 'who
made the order, or by his successor in oﬁice, on account of
mistake or error either in the (making of the order or in
the course of any proceeding under this Schedule in which
the order was made. Where any person has under this Schedule become
surety for the amount due by the defaulter, he may be pro-
ceeded against under this Schedule as if he were the de-
faulter. Whoever fraudulently removes, conceals, transfers or
delivers to any person any property or any interest therein,
intending thereby to prevent that property or
therein, from being taken in execution of a certiﬁcate, shall
be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 206 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. (1) When'a defaulter is arrested or detained in the civil
prison, the sum payable for the subsistence of the defaul-
ter from the time of arrest until he is released shall be
borne by the Income-tax Officer. A

(2) Such sum shall be calculated on the scale ﬁxed by
the State Government for the subsistence of judgment-
debtors arrested in execution of a decree of a civil court. (3) 'Sum payable under this rule shall be deemed to
be costs in the proceeding: this Act, regulating' the

ectors and other 0 ers
T? %

procedure to be followed by
acting under this Schedule. interest

297 SCH. III

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the genera-
lity of the power conferred by sub-rule (1), such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely- '(a) the manner in which any property sold under this
Schedule may be delivered: tion or endorsement is required to transfer such
negotiable instrument or share to a person who
has purchased it under a sale under this Schedule; (C) the procedure for dealing with resistahce or ob-
struction offered by any person to a purchaser of
any immovable property sold under this Schedule,
in obtaining possession of the property; (d) the fees to be charged for any process issued under
this Schedule ; (e) the scale of charges to be recovered in respect of
any other proceeding taken under this Schedule; ' ' (f) recovery of poundage fee; (8) the maintenance and custody, while under attach-
ment, of livestock or other movable property, the
fees to be charged for such maintenance and cus-
tody, the sale of such li.vestock or property, and
disposal of proceeds of such sale; (h) the mode of attachment of a business. Nothing in this Schedule shall affect any provision of Rule

:this Act whereunder_ the tax is a ﬁrst charge upon any Saving .622}-
.asset_ . ding charge. THE THIRD SCHEDULE

PROCEDURE FOR DISTRAINT BY INCOME-TAX
OFFICER

[See section 235(5) ]

Where any distraint and sale of movable property are Rule 1 ,
to be eﬁected by any Income-tax Ofﬁcer authorised for the Dist:-aint and

purpose, such distraint and sale shall be made, as far as 531°- may be, in the same manner as attachment and sale of any
movable property attachable by actual seizure; and the pro- [New]
visions of the Second Schedule relating to attachment and ,
sale shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in respect of such dis. 4 -traint and sale._ 1 , 4 _ ' . Draft Report on the lnccnne-tax Act. APPENDIX II. Table showing the provision in the existing Act and the corresponding provision,
if any, as proposed' in Appendix I.

Existing provision

Corresponding provision as
proposed II). Appendix I

SCCIIOII. I . Section 2(1) Section 2(2) . a . . . Section 2(3) Section 2(4) Section 2 (4A) . Section 2(4B) Section 2(5) . . . . Section 2(5A) . Section 2(5B) . Section 2(6) Section 2(6A) Section 2(6AA) . . Section 2(6B) . . . . Section 2(6C) . . . Section 2(6D) . Section 2(6E) Section 2(7) Section 2(7A) - . - . Section 2(8) Section 2 (SA) Section 2(9) Section 2(xo) Section 2 (I 1) Section 2(12) Section 2(I3) Section 2(I4) Section 2(I4A) . Section 2 (1 5), part Section 2(15) , part Section 2(16) Section 3 . Section 4(1) - Clause (:2), part
Clause (a), part . Clause (b) (2') . . . Clause (6) (ii) 1. The provision in Appendix I de

dfutinguisl: it from the existing provisiomﬁ which is

' das''Clause........'',in ' to
_. 'bedas"Section......... ....". Clause I
Clause 2(1)
Clause 2(5)
Clause 2(3)
Clause 2(9)
Clause 2(xo)
Clause 2(1 1)
Clause 2(12)
Clause 2(1g)
Clause 2(I4.)
Clause 2(x5)
Clause 2(x7)
Clause 2(18) and Explanation. Clause 2(I9)

Clause 2(ao), items(i)Qo (vii)
and Explnnafwn. Clause 2(23)
Clause 2(24.)
Clause 2(21)

Clause 2(22), sub. Clauses (i)
and (ii). Clause 2(25)
Clause 2(x 5) _
Clause 2(27), Sub- Clnusu(i) to (vii)
Clause 2(28)
Clause 5
Clause 2(3o)
Clause 2(31)
Clause 2(32)
Omitted. Clause 2(36)
Clause 2(37)
Clause 2(38)
Clause 3

Clause 4(1) ((4)
Clause 4(2)
Clause 4(x)(6)

Clause 4(1)(c) I 299 Clause (11) (iii)
Clause (c)
First proviso
Second proviso . Third proviso
Fourth proviso . Fifth proviso
Explanation 1 . Explanaiion 2 . Explanation 3 . . Explanation 4 . . . . Section 4(2) Section 4(3) - Clause (i), main para . . Clause (1'), proviso (a) opening line .
Clause (1'), proviso (a) (i)
Clause (1'), proviso (a) (ii)
Clause (1') proviso (b), part
Clause (1'), proviso (b), part
Clause (1'), proviso (b), part
Clause (1'), proviso (c)
Clause (ii)
Clause (iii), part . Clause (iii), part . . . . . Clause (iv)
Clause (v)
Clause (vi)
Clause (via) para. (a) . . Clause (via), para. (b) (Se: Finance Act, 1958) . Clause (vii) . . . . Clause (viii) . . . . . . Clause (ix)

Clause (:1) (a)

Clause (x) (b) _

Clause (x) (c) . . . . . Clause (at) (d) 1

Clause (x) (2)

Clause (xi) . . . . . Clause (xia), (See Finance Act, 1958)
Clause (xii) . . . Clause (xiii) . . . Clause (xiv) . . . . . . Clause (xiva), main para

Clause (xiva), 1st Prov. . . . . Clause (xiva), 2nd Prov. . . .,
Clause (xiva), Explanation . . . Clause (xv) . . . . . . Clause (xvi) . . . . . . Clause (xvii) . . . . .'
Clause (xviia) . .' .' . .'

Clause (xviib) . . .' . .' I
2o--11.awcom.15s. ' -;,

Clause 4(1) ((1)
Clause 4(2)

' Omitted, see notes. Clause 11(4) (iv)
Clause 1 1(4)(1')
Clause 11(4) (ii)
Clause 11(4) (iii)
Clause 4(3)
Clause 9(i1')
Clause 9(iii)

Clause 4(1) (e) (f) (E)
Clause 10

Clause 12(1)(i), main para. Clause 12(1)(i), proviso, part. /
Clause 12(1)(i1') (b)

Clause 12(1) (ii) (:1)

Clause 12(2)

Clause 12(3)

Clause 12(4)

Clause 12(1)" (1'), proviso, part_
Clause 12(5)

Clause 1 1 (22) (1')

Clause 11(22) (ii)

Clause 1 1(26) (1')

Repealed. Clause 1 1 (15)

Clause 1 1(7) (1')

Clause 1 1(6)

Clause 1 1(3)

Clause 1 1(1)

Clause 1 1 (26) (ii)

Clause 1 1(21)

Clause 11(7), items (ii) to (v)

Omitted: see notes. Clause 1 1(25)

Clause 1 1 ( 18)

Clause 1 1 (23)

Clause 1 1(8)

Clause 1 1(9), opening part. Clause 1 1(9) (ii) '
Clause 1 1(9) (1')

Clause 1 1(9), Explanation 2. Clause 1 1 (10) I

Clause 1 1(5) (1')

Clause 1 1(16) (1')

Clause 1 1 (1 6) (ii)

Clause 1 1/(1_6) .(1'v)

Clause (xuiii)

Clause (xix) . . . . S . Clause (xx)

Clause (xxi)

Clause (xxii) . Last para, part

Last para, part \ . Section 4A-- Clause ,(a) (1')

Clause (a) (ii)

Clause (a) (iii)

Clause (a) (iv)

Clause (b)

Clause (0)
Section 4B (a) . Section 4B(b)
Section 4B(r) Section 5(1) Section 5(1A) , earlier part . Section 5(1A) , latter part . Section 5(2) , earlier part . Section 5(2) , latter part Section 5(3) , earlier part Section 5(3) , latter part Section 5(3A) Section 5(4) , earlier part Section 5(4) , latter part Section 5(5) , earlier part Section 5(5) , latter part Section 5(5A) , earlier part . Section 5(5A) , latter part Section 5(6) Section 5(7) , words "for the purposes of this Act". Section 5(7) (1') Section 5(7) (ii) . Section 5(7A) , main para, earlier part Section 5(7A) , main para, latter part Section 5 (7A) , Explanation Section 5(7B) , earlier part . Section 5(7B) , latter part Section 5(7C) , main para Section 5(7C) , 1st Prov. , Section 5(7C) , 2nd Proviso Section 5(8) . . .. .~ Section 5A Section 6 . . . . ' Section 7(1) , main para, part . Section 7(1) , main para, part . . Section 7(1) , main para, part . , L

Clause 1'1(16) (iii)

Clause 1 1 (1 9)

Clause 1 1 (5) (ii)

Clause 1 1 (27)

Clause 1 1 (20)

Clause 1 2 (6)

Clause 1 2, Explanation (a)

Clause 6(1) (a)
Clause 6(1) ((2)
Clause 6(1) (5)
Omitted; see notes. Clause 6(2)

Clause 6(3)

Clause 6(6), part. Clause 6(6), part. Omitted as unnecessary. Clause I27

Clause 128(1), part. Clause 131(1)
Clause 128(1), part. Clause 131(2)
Clause 128(1), part. Clause 128(2)
Clause 128(3) i
Clause 129(1)

Clause 131(3) (a)

Clause 131(4)

Clause 131(5)

Clause 131(6)

Clause 129(4)

Clause 131(7), 1st para. _

Omitted; see notes. Clause 129(2)

Clause 129(3)

Clause 132 (1)

Clause 132(4), main para. Clause 132 (4), Explanation

Clause 130 (2)

Clause 140

Clause 133, main para. \
Clause 133, Prov. Clause 160, Explanation I.

Clause 130(1)

Omitted, in view of the p1'opo'
sed abolition of the Appellate
Tribunal. Clause 14

Clause 15 . Clause 17(1) l
Clause 17(2) ' Q 301 Section 7(1) , 1st Proviso. Section 7(1) , 2nd Proviso. . Section 7(1) , Expl. 1 . Section 7(1) , Expl. 2, main part . Section 7(1) , Expl. 2, Prov., part Section 7(1) , Expl. 2, Prov., part Section 7(1) , Expl. 2, Prov., part Section 7(1) , Expl. 2, Prov., Part Section 7(2) (1') . Section 7(2) (ii) « Section 7(2) (iia) , main para. Section 7(2)(iia) , Prov. Section 7(2)(iii) . Section 8 , 1st Para. Section 8 , 1st proviso, earlier part Section 8 , 1st proviso, latter part Section 8 , 2nd proviso Section 8 , 3rd proviso

.' Section 8 , Explanation-- Clause (a), part
Clause (a), last lines

'Clause (b), ﬁrst line
Clause (12), part
Clause (b), last lines Section 9(1) - Opening para. Clause (2'), part

Clause (i), part

Clause (ii), main para. Clause (ii), Proviso
Clause (iii)

Clause (iv), main para. Clause (iv), proviso
Clause (:2)

Clause (vi)

Clause (vii)

Explanation . Section 9(2) - First para. 151; Prov. . _. 2nd proviso, except last line
2nd provisoflast line

3rd proviso Section 9(3) . Section 9(4) (a) . 7 . Section 9(4) (b) . . . Section 9(4) (0) (See Finance Act, .19?8). i

ii'. l l

Clause 88'(1)(c}
Clause 213
Clause 17(3)
Clause 17(4)
Clause 1 I (1 1)
Clause 1 1 (12)

. Clause 1 1 (14)

Clause 296; See also clause
1 1 (1 3). Clause 16(i)

Clause 16(_ii)

Clause I6(ii1'), earlier half. Clause 16(iii), latter half. Clause 16 (iv)

Clause 18

Clause 19

Clause 2 1

Clause 87(i)

Clause 188. 87(ii) also. Compare ' clause

Clause 20(1) (i)

Clause 20(2), main paira. part
and clause 4o(rl), part. Clause 20(2), Expl. Clause 20(1)(ii)

Clause 20(2), main para,
and clause 4o(d), part. part

Clause 22

Clause 24(I)'(u') (a)

Clause 24(1)(ii)(b)
Clause 24(1)(z'ii)
Omitted, as obsolete. Clause 24(1) (iv) _
Clause 24(1), items (11) us (viii)
Clause 25 1
Clause 24( 1) (ix)

Clause 24(1) (x)

Clause 24(1) (xi)

Clause 27( iii)

Clause 23(1) '
Clause 23(3)
Clause 23(4)
Clause 24(2)
Clause 24(1)(i) and
Expl. Clause 26 _

Clause 27(i)

Clause 27(ii) _
Clause 27(0)

244(1). .....a . Section 10 , Sub-section (1) . . . Section 10 , Sub-section (2)-- Opening paragraph . . Clause (1'), without the proviso. . .
Clause (i), proviso . . . . . '. Clause (ii), without the proviso . . Clause (ii), proviso

Clause (iii), main part

Clause (iii), proviso, part . . Clause (iii), proviso, part (last 17 words)

Clause (iii), Explanation

Clause (iv), part (for buildings)
Clause (iv), part (for machinery etc.).
Clause (iv), part (for stocks etc.)
Clause (v), part (for buildings)
Clause (v), part (for machinery etc.)
Clause (vi), ﬁrst para, part

Clause (vi), ﬁrst para, part

Clause (vi), second para., with its clauses (a),(b)
and (0)

Clause (vi), proviso ((1)
Clause (vi), proviso (b), part

Clause (vi), proviso (b), part (referring to pre.
x939 years). Clause (vi), proviso (5)

Clause (via), part

Clause (via), part

Clause (via), part

Clause (nib), main para. . Clause (vib), proviso (a) . Clause (vib), proviso (b), earlier part
Clause (vib), proviso (b), latt"r half .
Clause (vib), proviso last para. Clause vii), first para. Clause (vii), ﬁrst proviso

Clause (vii), Second Proviso, part
Clause (vii), Seeond proviso, part
Clause (vii), Third proviso

Clause (vii), Fourth proviso, part

Clause (vii), Fourth proviso, part

Clause (vii), Fifth proviso

Clause (viii) . . . Clause (ix), earlier part . Clause (ix), latter part

Clause (x), main para. . . Clause 28, opening paragraph
and sub-clause (i)

Omitted, w deductions been
listed in separate clauses. Clause 3o(a) (i) (a)
Clause 38(1) (a)

Clause 30(a) (i) (b)
Clause 38(1) (b)

Clause 36(3), main part
Clause 4o(a) (i)

Omitted, m repeated in existing section 10(4) (b) : See notes to
Clause 40. Clause 36(3), Explanation
Clause 3o(c)
Clause 31 (ii)
Clause 36(1)
Clause 3o(a) (ii)
Clause 31 (i)
Clause 32(1)(i')
Clause 32(1)(ii)
Omitted, as obsolete. Clause 34(1), part
Clause 32(_ 2)
Omitted

Clause 34(2)

Clause 32(1)(i'ii), main para. Clause 32(I)(iii), Explanation- Clause 34(2) (ii)
Clause 33

Clause 34(1), part
Clause 34(3)(a) Exception. Clause 34(3) (a), main para. Clause 34(3)(b)

Clause 32(I)(iv) main para.' pan; Clause 32(1) (iv),
part. D

main para.,
Clause 41(2), main para. Clause 41(2), Explanation 2. '
Clause 32(1)(iv), Explanatim. Clause 41(2), main para. and
Explanation 1. Omitted in View of pi-oposcd_
draft for s. 10(2) (vii) , 3rd. proviso. Clause 41 (2), Explanation 3. Clause 36(5)
Clause 3o(b)
Clause 38(2)
Clause 35(2), opening paré. Clause (x), proviso

Clause (xi), main para. . . Clause (xi), proviso earlier half . '
Clause (xi), proviso, latter half

Clause (xii)

Clause (xiii), part . Clause (xiii), part . . . Clause (xiv), ﬁrst para., earlier part .
'Clause (xiv), ﬁrst para, latter part

Clause (xiv), 1st proviso . . . Clause (xiv), 2nd proviso (:1), opening lines
Clause (xiv), 2nd prov., (a) (i) . Clause (xiv), 2nd proviso, (a) (ii)

Clause (xiv . Second proviso, (b)

Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (c)

Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (Q

Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (e), earlier part
Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (5), latter part
Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (f), part .
Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (f), part .
Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (f) part
Clause (xiv), Second proviso, (g) .
Clause (xiv), Explanation at the end

Clause (xv) . . . . . . Section 10 , Sub-section (221) . . . Section 10 , Sub-Sections (2B) and (2C) Section 10 , Sub-section (3) Section 10(4) , ﬁrst para

Clause (a)

Clause (b) . . . Clause (6) . . . Section 1o(4A), Clause (a) . . Clause (b) . . . . . . Explanation . . . Section 10 (4B) (See Finance Act, 1958) Section 10(5) , ﬁrst para---- Clause (a), main part

Clause (a), First proviso . . . . Clause (a), Second proviso

Clause (b), main part

Clause (b), ﬁrst proviso . Clause (b), 2nd proviso . . . Clause (6) . . . . . . Explanation, earliar part

Explanation, latter part . Section 10 (5A) , opening line . . , '

C|a9s¢8(a).(b).(¢).(d)~- . . Clause 32(2)(s)
Clause 36(6), main para. ' Clause 41 (4)

Clause 36(6), First proviso. Clause 35(!)(i)

Clause 35-(1) (ii)

Clause 35(1) (iii)

Clause 35(1)(iv)

Clause 35(2) (i), main para. Clause 35(2) (i), Explanation. Clause 3 5(2) (ii) , opening lines. Clause 3 5(2) (ii) (b)
Clause 35(2) (ii), (:1)
Clause 35(2) (iii)
Clause 41 (3)

Clause 35(2) (iv)
Clause 35(2) (v)
Clause 42(1), Explanation 1. Clause 35(4)

Clause 73(3), part
Clause 74(3), part
Clause 35(3)
Clause 42(5)
Clause 37

Clause 41(1)
Omitted. Clause 33(3)
Clause 4o(a) (ii)
Clause 4o(a) (iii)
Clause 4o(b)

Clause 4o(a) (iv)
Clause 40 (0) (1')
Clause 40(5) (ii)
Clause 40 (c) Explanation
Clause 34 (2) (iv)

Clause 42 (2)
Clause 42(3)
Clause 42 (7) (a)
Clause 42(1), Expl. 3
Clause 42 (1), Exp]. 4
Clause 42 (7) (b), main para
Clause 42 (7) (b), Proviso
Clause 42 (7) (b) Explanation
Clause 42 (1), Explanation 2
Clause 42 (1), main para
Clause 42 (7), Explanation 3. Clause 28 (ii), opening lines,
part. Clause 28 (ii). ta), (b). T). (:1) 304 last para, earlier half . . . last para, latter half . . . . Section 10(6) . . . , . Section 10 (7) . Section 1 1 Section 12 - Sub-section (1)

Sub-section (IA)

Sub-section (IB)

Subsection (2) --- main para, part . . . . main para, part
Proviso . . Sub-sections (3) £9' (4) -- part . part . . . . . . Sub-section (5) - part
part Section 12A Section r2AA
Section 12B

Sub-secti0n(1)---- main para, earlier part
main para, latter part

Ist proviso, part

1st proviso, part

2nd proviso, earlier half
2nd proviso, latter half, part
2nd proviso, latter half, part

Sub-section (2)- opening lines . '

Clause (1')

Clause (ii), part

Clause (ii), part

Clause (ii), part

Ist proviso

2nd proviso, part

2nd proviso, part

3rd proviso, part

3rd proviso, part

3rd proviso, part

3rd proviso, part

3rd proviso, part

4th proviso

Sub-section (3)-- main para, earlier half, part

main para, earlier half, part . . rnain para, earlier half, part '

Clause 28 (ii), opening lines,
part. . Clause 123 (1), main para. Clause 28 (iii)
Clause 4,4, part. _ Repealed. ' Clause 58 (1)
Clause 58 (2) (1')

Omitted, as spent. - 4
Clause 60 (1')
Clause 60 (iii) .- '

Clause 61 /_a)

Clause 60 (ii)
Clause 62(2)

Clause 61 (b)
Clause 62 (1)
Clause 39
Clause 187

. Clause 4. 5

Clause 46

Clause 4.7 (1')

Clause 47 (ii)

Clause 47 (iii)

Clause 4.2 (1), Explanation 5. Clause 42 (7), Explanation 2. Clause 4.8,' opening lines. Clause 4,3 (i) '
Clause 48 (ii)

(Clause 50 (1) (:1)

Clause 57 (b)

Clause 54

Clause 51 (1)

Clause 51 (2)

Clause 50 (i) (b'; Clause 50 (2) (i) (c)
clause 50, (3) <5), pan
Clausc 50 (3) (ii) (5)
Clause 50 (4) (bl
Clause 52

Clause 50 (2), opening tints. Clause 50 (2)'(i) (4) . '
Clause _50 (3) (i).'part- " Prov. for all cases. Section 18A (6),'5th Prov . . . . . (Clause 223 (4)

Section 18A (7) . . . . . . Clause 224 7
Section 18A (8) . . . . . . Clause 225 (1)

Section 18A (9), main para
Section 18A (9), Proviso

Clause 282, earlier half. . . . - . Clause 282, latter half 1

Section 18A (10) . . ._ . . . Clause 226 -
Section 18A (1 1) . . . . . .- Clause 227

Section 18A (12) . . . . . . Clause 228 Section 19 . . . . . . . Clause 200 (1) Section 19A . . . . . . . Clause 166 (4) Section 20 . . . . . . . Clause 167

Section 20A . . . . . . . Clause 166 (1) Section 21 . . . . . . . Clause 166 (2) Section 22 (1) . . . . . . . Clause 143 (1) Section 22 (2) . . . . . . . Clause 143 (2) Section 22 (2A) , part. . . . . . Clause 143 (3) Section 22 (2A) , part . . . . . . Clause 80 Section 22 (3) . Clause 143 (4) Section 22 (4) . Section 22 (5) . Section 23 (1) . Section 23 (2) . Section.23 (3) . Section 23 (4) , main para, earlier half . '. .3

Clause 146 (1)
Clause 146 (5)
Clause 147 (1)
Clause 147 (2)
Clause I47 (3)
Clause 148 (1)'

., -.....--,._.. .. Section 23 (4) , main para, latter half, part . . Clause 193 (2), part Section 23 (4) , main para, latter half, part . Clause 192 (6) Section 23 (4) , Proviso

' Section 23 (5) , opening lines Section 23 (5) (a) , main para Section 23 (5) (a) , 1st Prov. Section 23 (5) (a) , 2nd Prov. Section 23 (5) (a) 3rd Prov. Section 23 (5) ([1)

Section 23 (6)

Section 23-A- Sub-section (1), part
Sub-section (1), part
Sub--section (1), part
Sub-section (2)
Sub-sections (3) to (7)
Sub-section (8)
Sub-section (9)

Explanation 1-

Clause (a)

Clause (b) (1'), main para
Clause (b) (i), Proviso
Clause (b)(iz')

half

Clause (b)(iii), main para, earlier

Clause (b) (iii), main para, latter half, part
Clause (b) (iii), main para, latter half, part

Clause (b) (iii), Proviso

Explanation 2---- Section 23B(1), earlier part
Section 23B(1), latter part . Section 23B(2) . Section 23B(3) . Section 23B(4) . Section 23B(5) . Section 23B(6) . Section 23B(7) . Section 23B(8) . Section 24(1) ------ main para

1st Proviso . 2nd Proviso, earlier half
2nd Proviso, latter half- Expl. 1 . . Expl. 2 Section 24 (2) -- main para, part
main para, part
main para, part . main para, part . Clause 193 (2), part. Clause 189 (1), opening lines: Clause 285, last part. Clause 286. '
Clause 287. Clause 141(1). Clause 141(2). Clause 288(1). Clause 141(3)(a)_
Clause 141 (3) (1)). Clause 141 (3) (d),
Clause 141(3) (¢)_

Clause 141(3) (g). Clause 141(3) (h),
Clause 141 (3) (i),

Clam I4r(3)(:')- Claw -141(3) (k) -~

.3121

Clause (1')
Clause (j)
Clause (k)
Clause (1)
Clause (m) 8 . Clause (n)
Clause' (0)
Clause (p) Section 54(4) Section 54(5) ' Section 55- Main paragraph
1st proviso
2nd Proviso Section 56 .Section 56A-- Sub-section (1), opening lines . Sub-section (1), Clause (i), part
Sub-section (1), Clause (i), part
Sub-section (1), Clause (ii)
_Sub-section (2)
' Section 57 . . . . Section 58 , Sub-section (1), part Section 58 , Sub-section (1), part Section 58(2) Section 58A
Section 58B(1) . Section 58B(2) . Section 583(3)
Section 58B(3A)
Section 58B(4) . Section 58C(1), opening lines
Section 58C(1)(a), main paragraph
Section 58C(1)(a), Proviso. Section 58C(1)(b), main paragraph
Section 58C( 1 ) (b), Proviso. Section 58C(1)(c) . . 'Section 58C(1)(d), main paragraph
Section 58C(1)(d), Proviso. . Clause 29o(a). : '
Clause 291(1). Clause 290(b). Clause 291(2). Clause 290(5). Clause 290(d). Clause 291 (3)(b)
Clause 290(2). Clause 29o( f). Clause 29o(g). Clause 291(3)(a). Clause 290(h)

Clause 292. Clause 291(4). Clause 294. Clause 295. Omitted,' as covencd daft
clauses.11=(13)§1nj 5. Clause 29'']( ). ' '

Section 530(2)'

Section 58G(3)

Section 581-!

Section 581 . Section 58_]'(1) . Section 58_](2) . Section 58_]'(3) . Section 58J(4) . Section 58_](5) . Section 58K

Section 58L

Section 58M

Section 58N . Section 580 . . . Section 581', main paragraph
Section 58P, Proviso . . . Section 58Q . . . . Section 58R, main paragraph, part
Section 58R, main paragraph, part
Section 58R, main paragraph, part
Section 58R, 1st Prov.. . Section 58R, 2nd Prov. . . Section 588(1) . Section 585(2) . Section 58T

Section 58U'

Section 58V Section 59 Section 60(1) Section 60(2) , for income-tax Section 60(2) , for super-tax Section 60(3) Section 60A Section 61 (1) , part Section 61(1) , part Section 61(1) , part Section 61(1) , part Section 61 (1) , part Section 61(2) (1') Section 61 (2) (1'i) Section 61 (2) (iii) Section 61(2) (iv) . Section 61(3) , main paragraph, part Section 61 (3) , main paragraph, part Section 61(3) , Prov. . Section 62 . . . . Section 63 . . . . Section 64(1) . . . . Clause 296. Clause 297(1). Clause 298. Clause 300. Clause 299(1). Clause 299(2). Clause 299(3). Clause 291 (5). Clause 299(4)- Clause 302. Clause 303. Clause 304. Clause 318. Clause 306. Clause 307(1). Clause 307(2). Clause 308. Clause 309. Clause 310, main paragraph. Clause 311, part. Clause 311, part. Clause 310, Prov. Clause 312. Clause 313. Clauses 314 and 166(3). Clause 315. Clause 316. Clause 329. Omitted as obsolete. See a1ist-- ing S. '

Clause 90. Clause 1 12. Omitted as inapplicable 'to fu- ture usessment years. '

Omitted, as not required for fu- ture assessment years. Clause 324(1). - Clause 324(2), opening linﬁ. Clause 324(2) (1'). Clause 324(2) (iv) . Clause 324(2)(n), part. Clause 324(2) (ii) . Clause 324(2) (iii) . Clause 324(2), Exp]. Clause 324(2) (0) ,-part. Clause 324(3). Clause 324(4), main pa.ra.. Clause 324(4), Prov.. Clause 325. 1
Clause 320. Clause 135(1). Section 64(2) , Section 64(3) , main paragraph Section 64(3) , 1st Prov. . . Section 64(3) , 2nd Prov. earlier part Section 64(3) , 2nd Prov. latter part Section 64(3) , 3rd Prov. Section 64(4) Section 64 ( 5) Section 65 . , , . ' Section 66(1) , main paragraph, part Section 66(1) , main paragraph, part
' Section 66(1) , Prov. . Section 66(2) ' Section 66(3) ' Section 66(4) ' Section 66(5) , part - . Section 66(5) , part Section 66(6) . Section 66(7) , main paragraph Section 66(7) , proviso Section 66(7A) . Section 65(8) . . . . Section 66A(r), main paragraph
Section 66A(1),. Proviso . Section 66A(2) . . . Section 66A(3), main paragraph . Section 66A( 3), 1st Proviso, part
Section 66A(3), 1st Proviso, Part
Section G6A(3), 2nd Prov. Section 66A(4) . Section 67 , Section 67A Section 67B Section 68 Schedule
Rule 1 . Rule 2 . . . Rule 3 . . . Rule 4 . . Rule 5(i)
Rule 5(ii)
Rule 5(iii)
Rule 5(iv) . Rule 5(v) . . Rule 6, earlier half, part

Rule 6, earlier half, part
Rule 6, latter half

Rule 7 . Rule, 8, para 1

Rule, 8, para 2

Rule 9 . Clause 135(2). Clause 135(3), main para. Clause 135(3), 1st Prov. Clause i35(4)(a)
Clause I35(4)(b). Clause 135(5). Clause 135(6). Clause 135(7). Clause 326. Clause 261(1), part. I
Omitted. Omitted. Omitted. Omitted. Omitted. Clause 263. Clause 265. Clause 266. Clause 273, part. Clause 267(2), part. Clause 261(2), part. Clause 278(a). Clause 264(1). Clause 264(2). Clause 268. Clause 269(1), main para- Clausc 269(1), Prov. ,
Clause 273, part. Clause 274,. Clause 269(4). Clause 327. Clause 276. Clause 328. Repealed,

Rule 1, First Schedule. Rule 2, First Schedule. Rule 3, First Schedule. Rule 4, First Schedule. C13-use 5(1) (8)1 L'

Rule 7(1)(i), First Schedule. Rule 7(1) (iii), First Schedule. Rule 7(1) (iv), First Slchedule. Rule 7(|)(ii), First _hedu.le. R1351 5, opening lines; First Sche-
e. - Rule 5(b), First
Rule 5(c), First
Omitted, as not
Rule 6(1) First
Rule 6(2), First Schedule. Clause 44., part. 1 It is understood that there are jgno carryi

ment business. ng on dividing societicf or assess- NOTES ON CLAUSES
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

Notes to clause 1. The word "Indian" has been omitted in consonance
with the recommendation made by the Commission in res-
pect of other Acts, and in conformity with recent legislative
practice. Notes to clause 2,

The words "unless here is anything repugnant in the
subject or context", appearing in existing section 2 , have
been retained, in View of the opening lines of section 3 ,
General Clauses Act, though recent Central Acts use the
formula "unless the context otherwise requires". 1. {\gricultu- Till recently there was a conﬂict of judicial op nion

""1'"°°m°- regarding the interpretation of the word "agriculture . In
the latest pronouncement of the Supreme Court', all the
decisions have been reviewed and the conﬂict in the judicial
pronouncement resolved. Hence it is not necessary to ex-
plain what is meant by "agriculture". 2. Annual Since existing section 9 has been broken up, the
''*'"'''~ draft, into various clauses, it appears useful to have? this
deﬁnition pointing to the relevant provision. I 3. Appellate No change has been made in the existing provision. Assiw-nt C0- Only, it has been placed before the deﬁnition of 'asses$ee'.
mmissioncr. '

4- Approved Since these two expressiolns occur frequently in} the 5."P°""m""' Act, a reference has been made to them here.
tlon fund etc. 5. Assesscc. The existing definition of 'assessee' has been rep ced
in the draft by a more comprehensive deﬁnition, so s to
include all the possible categories of assessees, i.e., i) a
person who is himself liable to pay the tax on incom be-
longing to him, (ii) a persop liable to pay tax. on in ome
belonging to 'another person, and (iii) a person who is d em-
ed under the sections of the Act to be an "assessee" or§"as-
sessee in default". ' - Wherever necessary, drafting changes have been ade
in the substantive provisions (particularly in the Ch ter
entitled "Liability in Special c ses") to bring out the r sult
that any person on whom a li ility to pay tax etc. i im-
posed by the Act, becomes am'; assessee. It is hoped hat
the deﬁnition of 'assessee', as drafted, when read wit the
substantive provisions, will cover all cases of vicarious: lia-
bility falling under any of the following categories 

(1) One person's income included in another's totag in-
come-vide existing sections 4(2) ', 16(1)(c), 1g(3),
44D, 44E and 44JF, as Well as %ect1on 42(2). : and 44B(3). (3) -One person ceasing to exist,: and thereupon ano-T 

ther becoming liable, to be assessed for or to pay
tax for which the f rmer is ".liable--12ide existing
sections 24B, 25A , 26 , 2 ), Prowiso and 44. (4) One person liable to pay (without the formality of
assessment) tax normally payiable by another-/vide
existing sections 18(7) and 4ﬁA§(2) and (3). (5) Cases where procedure for recovery of tax may be
applied against one person, (Who is not himself the
assessee) for tax r overable from another--/vide

existing section 46 ( A) 5th para and also draft

Second Schedule, Rule 87. 1 '

(Existing section 8 , 3rd Proviso and section 58-U need
not be speciﬁcally dealt with here). Since the deﬁnition of "assessee" is made comprehen-
sive, the words "or other person liable to pay such tax,
penalty or interest" occurini' in existing section 29 have
been omitted in the draft'. his will remove the difficulty
created by a decision of the Madras High Court'. A deﬁnition of assessment, as including re-assessment, 5; Aim!- has been inserted on the lines of the

Canadian Income-tax
Act'. T

Ill'. ' i

This is new. Though the Act uses the expression "as- 7 

sessment year" there is no deﬁnitiop. of that expression
anywhere in the Act. We have, thenefore, included a deﬁ-
nition which conforms to the existing practice. In the In-
come-tax Acts of other countries, e.g.', Ceylon, there is a
deﬁnition of 'assessment year'. This is new. Instead of givinggan elaborate formula'

8 Am.ge
to arrive at the average rate wherever it becomes necessary, °f tax. we thought it more convenient and conducive to clarity
to add a deﬁnition. existing section 17 . Mention of earned income relief has not been made in
the deﬁnition, in view of the ifact that the provisions of the
Act relating to earned income relief' ave now Hecome ob-
solete. Since successive Finance Acts ﬂor the last two years
have not provided for this relief,-it bvpuld seem to be the
coiiﬁgmed policy of Government to abolish earned income
re 1e . 2

This is also a new provision intended to arrive at the A,

This isl based on sub-section .(5)' of

t year. (201116-

yieragc rate

average rate of super-tax; (compare the deﬁnition of "ave-
rage rate of income-tax " referred to above ). ' Vida draft clause 163. cf supcrtax. = E. Alffed vs. Addl. 1.7.0., (1955) 29 I.T.R. 708 See also Abdul irasim '

vs. C.I.T. (1g58)33»I.T.R. 466. ~ 3
' See the (Canadian) Income-wdAct., x39(x)(d). 9. Business. I 0. 3886!. Capital 11. Central
Board of Re- venue. 12. Commis- sioner. 13. Compa- ny. 14. Co-opera'
tivc Seciety. '

1 5. Director,
Manager,
Managing
Agent. 16. Director
of Inspec- tion. 17. Dividend. 18. Earned
income. No change has been made in existing section 2(4) . Item (iii) of the existing deﬁnition, which excludes "any. land from which the income derived is agricultural income",
has been redrafted and replaced by the words "any agricul-
tural land in India". The general scheme of the constitu-
tional provisions relating to taxation is to exclude agricul-
tural land from taxation by the Union, and it would,
therefore, be in conformity with that scheme to express
this exclusion, not in terms of "agricultural income" but in
terms of land. Agricultural land which has been cultivated,
say, for 5 years and then remained fallow for 2 or 3 years
during which it is sold, would, under the existing deﬁnition,
attract capital gains tax. This anomaly will now be remov-
ed by the proposed redraft. No change; it corresponds to existing section 2(4B) .
No change; it corresponds to existing section 2(5) . There is no substantial change in the draft. which fol-
lows the existing deﬁnition in section 2(5A) . 2 No change; it follows the existing deﬁnition in section
(5B). ~

We have included in the existing deﬁnition [ sec. 2(8A) ]
the word "Director" also, and we have substituted fct the
" Indian Companies Act, 1913 ", the "Companies_Act, 1956".
To make the meaning clear, we have also introduced the
words "in relation to a company'T.

No change; it corresponds to existing section 2(6) . There is no change in the existing deﬁnition in section
2(6A) , except that we have added another explanation to
the effect that the accumulated proﬁts "shall include all
proﬁts of the company up to the date of distribution or: pay-
ment referred to in this clause". ' - The reason for this alteration is this. In the case of Girdhar Das and Co. Ltd. vs. C.I.T. ', the Bombay '
Court observed that in this section, "accumulated pr ﬁts" ed them as (b) and (c). The existing clause (c) is renum-
bered as clause ((1). We have added an explanation to

 « }

ET (1957) 3: I.T.R. 82. .3 *1

 

. I
1 ~ 323 overcome the 'difficulty introduced by the Madras High
Court in Mari Muthu. Nadar v. C.I.T .' V - No change; it follows the existing deﬁnition in section :9. Firm.
2(6B). - Fem" ,and
partnership. We have included in the existing deﬁnition other proé
visions which treat income as deemed income for the pur- 9°- "'°°'"°-
pose of the Act. ' The Act uses at several places the lengthy expression
"income, proﬁts and gains". To simplify the matter and
to avoid repetition, we have included 'proﬁts and gains" in
'the deﬁnition of income, and throughout the Act we have
"used, as far as possible, the word "income". Suggestions
have been made that we should give an exhaustive deﬁni-
tion of income. It is not possible to do so. The provision within the brackets» in existing sub- -clause (iii) (relating to the meaning of; "person having sub-
stantial interest in a company") has been transposed as an
explanation. Item (vii) of the existing deﬁnition of income relates
to the proﬁts and gains of insurance business carried on
by a mutual insurance association or by a Co-operative
:Society. What is described as "proﬁts and gains" in this
item is, in fact, merely a siitplus. The deﬁnition simply
artiﬁcially extends the conception of income so as to cover -such surplus. The existing words "computed in accord-
ance with Rule 9 in the Schedule" indicate this clearly,
when read with existing rule 2(b) of the Schedule. An
attempt has been made to bring out this aspect still more
«clearly in the draft." _ . No change, in the existing deﬁnition in section 2(7) . We have revised the deﬁnition of 'Indian company', in 22.:'1ndian
the light of the Companies Act, 1956 , and the abolition of Co-tzpanh
'the distinction between Part A and 'Part B States. The : 2 A. E. R. 295. See also I. '1'. I. C. Re , I918, 13.: 126, page 54, and
compare section mi, Australian Inc ' tax etc. ,'1936-1953. , 25. Magistra- te. 26. Non--resi- dent. 27. Person. 28. Prescrib- ed . 29. Previous
/

year. 30. Principal
Oﬁiccr. 31. Public
servant. 32. Register- ed ﬁrm. 33. Regular
assessment. \

e 324

._Under the existing deﬁnition, second--class magistrates
specially empowered by the Central Government are also
authorised to try offences under Act, and in the State
of J ammu _and Kashmir the State Government may7 autho-
rise a Magistrate of the second class to try offences under
the Act. We are, however, not in favour of second-class»
Magistrates trying offences ,under the Act, and we have
therefore, conﬁned the power to ﬁrst class Magistrates
throughout India. Incidentally, this will lead to simpliﬁca-
tion of the deﬁnition and uniformity. The Act uses various
resident of India. cable, 'and has

phrases for a person who is not a
For the sake of uniformity, the,phrase
has been used in the draft wherever practi-
been deﬁned here. The deﬁnition of "person" in existing section 2(9) has: The deﬁnition has therefore been ampliﬁed on thei above
lines". 9

i

[ sections 3 iand 4] ,. i

No change, vide existing section 2(10) . . The expression is deﬁned separately in clause 

No change, videeexistingf; section 2(12) . No change, vide existing; section 2(13) . No change, vide existing' section 2(14) . '

The expression is at present deﬁnedionly casually in-. the Act in S. 18A(5). Since the expression occurs in some
sections, it is desirable to place its deﬁnition in this clause. v

1 Section 3 (4«.»), Gene iciame-'pug.
' See also notes to d e 3. The deﬁnition refers back to the,» proposed clause' 34.1qesidcm.
which reproduces S. 4A with modiﬁcations. . »

The deﬁnition is new. Wherever bbth inc'ome-talx and 35- Tax-
super-tax are intended to be covered, the simple word "tax" . '
would be sufﬁcient. The substantive prdvisions_in the draft.
therefore, use the word "tax" wherever. convenient, and
it has been deﬁned here. i

No change; vide existing section 2(15) , ﬁrst para. 36. V Total

UICODIC. The existing deﬁnition in section 2(15) (second para) 37. Total
is reproduced with one change. ;The existing words "except "'°'1d "100-»
income to which .......... .. this Agzt does not apply" are not '"°' ,
happy and have been replaced V y more appropriate words '
which bring the wording in line; with existing section 4(3) . No change; vide existing section 206 ). _ ~ gfédlirggglste

Existing section 2(14A) , deﬁning the expression "tax- Taxallc tcro

x

able territories", has been omitted in the draft, as the use "it°Vi,3-
of that expression is no longerinecessary and can be con-
veniently replaced by the word "India' .'
CHAPTER II h
BASIS OF CHARGE; Notes to clause 3. Sub-clause (1)---- (1) The word "person" has been substituted for the
words "individual", "Hindu undivided faimily" etc. and the
deﬁnition of "person" is being jwidenedl' for the following
reasons :-- : .. ' (a) As already explained'. the co ined effect of the

T deﬁnition of "person" in section,'2(9) of he Income-tax Act and section 3(42) of the Generali Clause 'Act is that a "per-
son" includes (a) Hindu undivided fam' y; (b) local autho-
rity; (c) company; and (d) assbciationotr body of indivi-
duals whether incorporated or riot. No eciﬁc mention has
been made of corporations othdr than dmpanies included
within category (d). i »

The problem which has troubled the courts is whether
such corporations are withinithe ch ing section. It
can be met by the suggested mend ,t by introducing 7
the word "person" in the se tion. I 'Commissioner of
Income-tax, Madras vs. Salem iDist'rict*Urban Bank Ltd.'
a co-operative bank was treated as an individual by an

' Clause 6. ' As assessments for_ the period prior to the Commencement of the new
Act will continue to be governed by the existing Act, there will be no need to
lay down separate periods for the various a as. J . ' See notes to clause 2 deﬁnition of " non". pg

' (194.0) 8. I.T.R. 269. 'artiﬁcial interpretation of the word "individual". Similar- ly, in Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras vs. The Bar
Council, Madras ', a bar council_ and in the Baronetcy case'
a corporation sole, were treated as individuals. It seems
desirable to make the position clear. (b) There is also the problem of private religious
trusts in favour of deities or mutts which are treated as
artiﬁcial jurisdical person in law, vide existing S. 41 . The
point for consideration is whether it is proper to bring
them under "individual" by a strained construction or whe-
ther it would be more appropriate to include them under
"person". These difficulties can be solved if we adopt the
word "person" in S. 3 , the charging section. It may be
noted incidentally that in the existing S. 3 it occurs only
in the expression "association of persons". (c) All the foreign Acts employ the term "person" in
the charging section, and it is better to resolve all doubt
about the chargeability of particular classes of persons by
using the comprehensive term "person" in section 3 . (2) The next point for consideration is the,difﬁculty
noticed in sustaining the legality of the recovery of the
tax on the current income under S. 18 and 18A. The charge
created under section 3 applies to the income of the pre-
vious year, while the provisions of sections 18 and 18A
apply to the income of the assessment year also. To meet
this difficulty a proviso has been added on the lines of the
Ceylon Income-tax Ordinance to cover the provisions of
the Act relating to charging the tax in particular cases in
respect of income, proﬁt and gains of a period other than

_the previous year. This will cover S. 24A , 25(1) and 44B

(3) of the Act, whereby the income of the assessment year
itself is made.chargeable at the rates prescribed by the Finance Act of the assessment year. Sub-clause (2) is intended to make it clear that there
is some kind of liability to pay tax in cases where tax is
xdeductible at source or payable in advance. It seems desir-
able to make a reference to this obligation to pay tax in
advance etc. in the charging section itself, so as to bring
out more directly a position which is implied in existing sections 18 and 18A. (3) After the phrase "in respect of the total income
of the previous year" the words "or years, as the case may
be" have been added. Under the deﬁnition of "previous year '
in the existing section 2(_11) a person may have separate
previous years in respect of each separate source of in-
come. The proposed addition is intended to meet such
cases'. ' (1943) II I.T.R-x. I 0
' Currimbhhy Ibrahim Bzrenetqy Trust: vs. C. I. 71, 5 I. T. C.-4.84, (Bombay).
' Cf. CIT vs. Savumiamurthy (194.6) in LT. R. 
i 5

32'? Notes to clause 4. (1) The income of_ residents and. non-residents ha been
dealt with separately for the sake of simplicit and
clarity. '

(2) The ﬁrst proviso to S. 4(1) has been omitted; as it
concerns the assessment year 1939-40 and is now unneces- sary. (3) The second proviso to S. 4(1) relating to persons
not ordinarily resident should be omitted, as it is proposed
to abolish the category and the exemption granted in res-
pect of such persons'. If, however, the provision is to be
retained, it can be .kept as shawn in the relevant clause
on the subject'. (4) The third proviso to section 4(1) concerni g the
exemption for unremitted foreign income upto. R 4,500
has been transferred to the clause relating to income which
does not form part of total income.' 1

(5) The fourth proviso to S. 4(1) " relating to residents
who are not resident in two out of three preceding' years
has also been transferred to that clause.'

(6) The ﬁfth proviso to S.4(1) relating to exemption'
for foreign income of residents who deposit tax etc: with-
in three months (where the fourth proviso does not apply)
has also been transferred to the clause relating to 'exclu-
sions from total income. after omitting portions whic have
become obsolete.' '

(7) The words "by or on behalf of" have been used in
respect of foreign income received in India [vide : draft
sub-clause (1), (a), (d), (e), (f) and (g)] to cove cases
where the income is received not by the assessee imself
but by any other person on his behalf. (8) Explanation 1 to S. {(1) has been incorporated in
draft sub-clause (3). *

(9) Explanation 2 to section 4(1) is transferredffto the
new clause' relating to deemed income'. =

(10) Explanation 3 to S.4(1) has also been transferred
to that clause'. '

(11) Explanation 4 to existing s. 4(1) relates to come
which accrued in a Part B $t:ate or merged territo be-
fore the extension of the Income-tax Act thereto énd is

Vide notes to draft clause 6. Draft clause 11 (4) (iv). Vida draft Clause 11 (4) (i). Vida draft Clause ll (4) (ii). Vida draft Clause 1} (4) (iii).{ . E
Vidc draft c1au.e' (ii). . i
Vida draft Clause 3 (iii). COODIDF

328'
brought into any other part of India after the extension

of the Indian Act. These provisions, it appears, have be-
come almost obsolete. . - The Explanation provides that proﬁts accruing in 5 a
merged territory after 1-4-1933 shall be chargeable under section 4(1) (b) (iii) only if such incomeiis remitted into
another part of India other than the merged territory. Para.
8 of the Merged States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1949,
enacts that Explanation 4 would not apply if the assessee
was not a resident in at least three outiof six assessment
years viz.,~1943-44 to 1948-49. Even in the case of persons
who were resident in at least three out of six years, Ex-
planation 4 would not operate,' if the income had been
assessed under the State law on accrual basis and had also
been included in the total income for rate purposes [under section 14(2)(c) ]. Thus, Explanation 4 to section 4(1) would
apply only in the case of persons who were resident in In-
dia in at least three out of six assessment years 1943-44 to
1948-49 and whose income accruing in the State has escap-
ed assessment either in the State or in India. The Explanation should therefore be omitted. If, how-
ever, it is deemed to retain it, it 'should appear in a simpli-
ﬁed form. Draft sub-clause (1), (e), (f) and (g) have been
drafted to indicate how the Explanation Should be incor-
porated. The language has, however, been altered so as
to make the provisions easy ofi applic ion. The existing
Explanation uses the words "taxable te : itories" and the
deﬁnition of these words in S. 2(14A) does not show in
clear words the background in which the special provisions
relating to merged territories and Part B States were in-
troduced. The provision has now been .50 drafted as to
relate it to the assessment year with effect from which the

Indian Act was extended to merged territories and Part B '

States. A provision may be inserted inithe Miscellaneous
Chapter to guard against the possibility bf any income be-
ing taxed twice----once under the existing Act and again
under the provision as proposed. . 1

(12) Existing section 4(2) is transferred to the new
clause on deemed income'. ~ '

(13) Existing section 4(3) forms the'subject--matter of
a separate clause dealing with income which does not
form part of total income'. 1 4

Notes to clause 5. The deﬁnition of "previous year" has been embodied
in a separate clause, since it is a lengthy one. No change
of substance has been made, but drafting changes have
been attempted to achieve simplicity, and to state the po-
sition regarding various situations separgately. Further, the

R V _ . ' Vida draft clause 10, g'
' Vida draft clauses 11,12 and 13. ' the previous year. provision at present contained--.«'Rule 5'(i) o-frthe Schedule,
regarding insurance iusinessi has been brought here for
the sake of comprehensiveness; '

Notes to clause 6. (1) The clause relating to category "not ordinarily re-
sident" has been retained in thedraft but is recommended
to be omitted in order _to simplify the law. This recom-
mendation was made by the Income-tax Investigation?Com-
mission' and also by the Taxation Enquiry Commis-
sion'. The only difference in the taxation between r-
son who is ordinarily resident and not ordinarily regii ent
is relating to the foreign income, and provision for V eter-
mining the tax on foreign income in the case of a person not
ordinarily resident is containedin second proviso to section
4(1) . But for this diﬁerencep both of them stand dn the
same footing for the {purpose of taxation. The retention of

persons not ordinarily resident as a separate category is
unnecessary. ' ' ' 
, . (2) The condition' for residence in the case of a erson
who has been in India Wit n the four preceding years
has now been someiwhat tiered so as to requir the
presence of the persdn in In is! for at least thirty d s in

'The a iguity caused by the rase
"otherwise than by an occasional or casual visit" in the
existing section 4A(a) (iii) will now be avoided. » 9 (3) Section 4A(a) (iv) oﬂ_- the Act, authorising t e In-
come-tax Ofﬁcer totifeat a 'on as a resident if he "sa-
tisﬁed" that the person, havi %arrived in India du ' g'the
year, is "likely to remain" to not less than three years,
has been omitted, as. it gives; a vague discretion to e In-
come-tax Officer. The words';"_has maintained", in e isting
section 4A(a) (ii), have beers' replaced in the draft y the

words "causes to be; maintaﬁried", which express e in-
tention better. I 

(4) Draft sub-clause (4).-1-This is new and has b en in-
serted to make provision foi ﬁxing the residence o "per-
sons" who are not lndividuﬂs, Hindu undivided f ilies,
ﬁrms, associations of compaiiiies. '
(5) Draft -sub-clause (5).---This is new. In C.I.T.a£1s. Sa-
vumiamurthy', the Madras Hi h Court has held th since
there can be a sep 'ate prdvous year for, each so rce of
income, the residen?a1 stat of the person has als to be

ource. plica- separately determin d with reference to each such
As this procedure w
J

11 be cumbersome and entail co

' J' J

,1:g.1.q=' pan, 194a ,
1 \ 3953~1°5+w,o#-;?1-

'. .V='d..~m¢-15» W.- ' Vida pages 28-29. V,
' (I946) 14- I.T.R. '1 1 330 tions in practice, the newly added sub-céhuse provides that
a person who_is resident for one source of income shall be
treated as resident for all such sources'. (6) Existing section 4A(c), latter part,' dealing with
the determination of the residence of a company on the
basis of its income in India, is proposed to be omitted, since
such test does not appear to be a proper one. (After the
draft was prepared the Finance Act 1958, by section 4 .
has omitted it). (7) Draft sub-clause (6).------Though the category of per-
sons not ordinary: resident is recommended for abolition,
the existing special provisions applicable to such per-
sons are retained in the draft. (For example, see section
4(1) . 2nd proviso. See also sections 42(2) and 44D , which
treat such persons on the same footing. as non--residents).
These sub-clauses will. therefore, be useful for the pur-
poses of the provisions just referred to. Existing section 4B (c) which provides that a com-
pany, ﬁrm or other association is ordinarily resident if it

' is resident, has been omitted in the draft, as unnecessary. The distinction between "ordinarily resident" and "not or-
dinarily resident" is signiﬁcant only when there is a pos-
sibility of an entity being resident and yet not ordinarily
resident. In the absence of anything to ﬁle contrary, a resi-
dent would have to be regard as ordinarily resident, and
no express provision is necessary for the purpose. '" Notes to clause 7. According to section 4(1) the chargeable income of
every person whether resident or non-resident includes in-
come "which is deemed to be received" in India in the
previous year. There is, however, no enumeration at
any one place of these 'receipts which are deemed to be
received in India in the previous year. This clause mere-
ly collects together the relevant provisions, without effect-
ing any substantial change in language'. [The deemed income referred to in section 18(4) (tax
deducted at source) will be dealt with inthe clause corres-
ponding to that section, as it merits special treatment.]

Notes to clause 8. It seems desirable that all provisions relating to
income "deemed" to be of a particular year, or deemed
to be received in a particular year should appear in pro- ximity to each other. Hence a part of section 16(2) has. been embodied in this clause. No change of substance has
been made. ' 7

' A similar recommendation was . _ bytl; '1' -tax lnvcstiption
' ' - ('f903)~ "'10 "S |'43'i4a- ' 33+
"S0c|l:onotestodnﬁ'clau:c8. , 331 Notes to clause 9. According to section 4(1) the chargeable income of a
person whether resident or non-resident includes income,
proﬁts and gains which "are deemed to accrue or arise to him
in the taxable territories" in the previous year. Income is
deemed to accrue- or arise under various provisions scat-
tered all over the Act. All these provisions which deal with
income which is deemed to accrue or arise in India have
now been grouped together. The changes made are all of a drafting nature, and
are intended to remove ambiguity and simplify the expres-
sion'. 1

S"u.b--cluu.se'(i).--The words "sale ....... .. of a capital as-
set in the taxable territories" in the existing section 42(1) are slightly ambiguous, since "in taxable territories" can
be read either with "sale" or with "capital asset". To re-
move this ambiguity, the word "situate" has been added
after "capital asset". (It is not necessary to make any such
addition in the earlier phrases referring to business con-
nection etc._. since the language there does not end itself
to any ambiguity.)

The words "that part of the operations", inthe existing section 42(3) have been replaced by "the operations", for
two reasons; ﬁrst, the word "that" in the existing section
is not happy, since it is not 'followed by any pronoun, and
secondly, the existing words are not in symmetry with
the opening words "in the case of ....... ..all the operations". As to the meaning of the word "operation", see the
decision of the Supreme Court, in the Anglo French. Teaco
title Co., vs. C.I.T .' - _ Sub-clause (ii).---An attempt has béen made to simpli-
fy the language, by omitting unnecessary words such as
"if payable in the taxable territories vlherever paid". The
substance is not affected by the deletion of these words,
since the proposition sought to -be enacted is only this, that
saléiry earned in India is deemed to accrue or arise in
In ia. Notes to clause 10. This embodies S. 4(2) . The section is based on a
double ﬁction. While the income of the non-resident
husband and is treated as the income of the residentwite,
it is also treated as income which is deemed to accrue to
her in India. The provision has been embodied in the draft, with
a slight verbal change (see the words 'for on her b'el_1alf" 'Simpliﬁcation has been sought to be achieved by the follow-
ing devices: ' (i) re-arrangement of the various clauses of section
4(3) so as to bring out their common features (e.g.,
existing section 4(3) (x)(b) , section 4(3) (xiv) etc.
have been placed in proximity to each other, as
they deal with income of foreigners or employees
of foreign Governmcnts\etc.)'; (ii) analysis of the essentials of each clause, and their
restatement in a form that can be easily followed;
e.g., vide the draft sub«-clause' dealing with casual

receipts and the draft sub-clause' relating to
local authorities; (iii) incorporating in the draft clause, provisions re-
garding exclusions from total income at present
contained in other sections of the Act'; ~ (iv) omission of obsolete provisions;
(1)) general simplification" of language. (2) Provisions relating to income from propertyi held -on trust for religious or charitable purposes, and income

of religious and/or charitable institutions has been? dealt - with in a separate section on account of its importance'. Income of a business chargeable under the Act of 1918
and discontinued after the commencement of the p esent
Act is, under section 25 , sub-sections (3) and (4), ex uded

from total income. _This has been dealt with in another
separate section'. A

(3) The changes' made by the Finance,Act 1958} have
been given effect to at the appropriate places. (4) The changes made are (mainly of a drafting ' ture,
designed to simplify the expression as explained i para
(1) "above. The following aib-clauses, however, d serve
special notice, as the changes made there are not urely
formal :-- ' f
I c. g., Vida clause 11 (5) to (9). . '
' Clause 11 (3). ' Clause 11 (22). ' e. 3. Clause 11 (11) to (14). 5 Sn draﬁ clause 12. ' _ g _ _
'sudnftclmncls. -' p A - ; _~ ' 333 Sub--clause (7).---Items (ii)- to (v) of this sub-clause
correspond to sub-clauses (b)-:to (e) of section 4(3) (x) of
the existing Act. The requirement that the recipient
must not be an Indian citizen is contained, at present, only
in two sub-clauses of- section 4(3) (x) . Sub--clauses (b) and (d) relating to Consuls etc., and Trade Commissioners do
not mention it. In the draft, however, this has been made
applicable to all cases, for the sake of uniformity. Sub-clause (8).------In the existing section 4(3)(xiv) , the
exemption is conditional on the stay of the'emp1o ee of
a foreign enterprise for a period not exceeding in e ag-
gregate "ninety days in any year". The words "any year" mg provision in 4(3) (1), main era. The instruction in the
Income-tax Manual issued by e authority of the Govern-
ment of India at that time was, that the word "property"
in clause (i) does not bear the restricted meaning that it
bears in section 9 of the Act, but includes securities or
business or share in a business. In view of the recommen-
dations made in the Income-tax Enquiry Report, 1936' (to
give statutoryeﬁect to this practice, subject to the condi-
tions to be observed by the business) an amendment was
introduced by adding clause (via) which was as follows :-- rying out of a primary purpose of the institution,
or (b) the work in connection with the business is mainly

carried on by beneﬁciaries of the institution." (After the amendment in 1939, the Government chang-
ed the instructions in the Manual, expressing the view that
in the case of business, the conditions laid down in clause
(ia) should be fulﬁlled before exemption could be grant-
ed). 9 3. The meaning of the word "property" in clause (i)
was judicially considered and it was held that it includes
even business if the business was subject-matter of a trust.
This was the view taken in Charitable Gadodia. Swaideshi
Stores vs. C.I.T., Punjab by the Lahore High Court'. Deal-
ing with the contention that the word "property" in clause (i) does not include business. their Lordships of the Lahore
High Court held that the two clauses were intended to
apply to different situations and that the word " roperty" gatory that in the case of. suchbusiness the conditions laid -' Page 6, I. T. Enquiry" c_port, 1936 ("also known "as 
V 1 . I I I I', 7

" 1

« Export)-V _ .. p , A -(x944)121.r..n.u:..- ,4 335 down in clause (ia) should be fulﬁlled. (Clause (ia) thus
applies to a different situation, namely, where there is an
institution and that institution 'carries on business which
is not subject to a trust. In such a case the remiisites of
the section must be complied with. The income must be
applied solely to the purpose of the institution and the
charitable or religious institution must also fulﬁl the con-
ditions in sub-clauses (a) and (b). As to the distinction
between an institution and a trust, see also the discussion
in a recent Privy Council case,' and Gunn's commentary
on the Australian Income~tax Act.') 4. That "property" in clause (i) includes business has
been well established not only by a decision of the Judicial
Committee' but also by the latest pronouncement of the
Supreme Court in J. K. Trust Case'. . This aspect there-
fore does not present much difficulty. (The dilﬁculty as
to in which set of circumstances clause (ia) applies still
remains, though the View in Gadodia Swadeshi Stores'
case has subsequently been followed and conﬁrmed by the
High Courts -of Allahabad' and:Bombay'. 5. In view of the recommendations. made by Din.
Mohammad J. in Gadodia's case and by the Income-tax In-
vestigation Commission [Report (1948) at pages 56-57,
paragraph 131] the legislature in 1953 [vide the amending
Act of 1953 (Act 25 of 1953)] converted clause (via) into a
proviso to clause (i), and by subsequent legislation it was
made clause (b) of the proviso to clause (i) (vide the
amending Act of 1955). 'The object of this legislation was
to restrict the operation of clause (i), where the property
consisted of business impressed with the character of trust,
by applying the limitation imposed by clause (b) of the
proviso'. But in carrying out this object, the immunity which
was granted under clause (ia), (as it stood before 1953),
in the case of business carried on' 'by a religious or charit-
able institution and not subject to trust, was negatived.
The linking up of old clause (via)_ to clause (i) had the
effect of taking away the separate exemption granted by
clause (ia). In other words, the conversion of clause (ia) in-
to a groviso has led to the op osite result of depriving the
bene t (limited though it be , which; was intended to be

_ 1 Minister of National Revenue vs. Tmsts and Guarantees Co. Ltd. (1932) 4-A.
E. R. 149 P, C. See also 2". M. C. A. vs. F. C. off'; E1926} 37 C. L'. R. 351 at
pp. 350, 361. g I
' ' 4th edition, p. 114, para 292. l

.' Tribune cast, (1939) 7- I. T. R. 4:5 p. Q.-:61. A: 241. _ - - [1957] 32 I_:r.R. 535 (Bombay H. C. on-remand 11933333 I.T.R. 32). i ' C.I.T. vs. Radlzaswm-u"Sat :ang Salim. (.1934) 25 I. T. R. 472.
r" 21 J. K'. Trust w.C.j".,'(l958) 33iI..'l'.'R.32. . . . _ . ' .
y= ' C . 'Report of-the Tﬁntloa-'1 _ y' Os?on,_'(}953-3954). Vol. II,
Ch.:V'I I..;1aIrIII'!|Phs 1,aud~3,']nge;- '3 " vi'; a -1., -4 336 conferred by clause (ia) on charitable and religious instit-
tutions which carried on business which was not subjected
to trust (provided they fulﬁlled the conditions laid down
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that clause). We think that
this result was not intended by the legislature. If the
intention is----as undoubtedly it has been from 1936----to
impose restrictions in the case of business whether carried
on by a trust or by a religious or charitable institution, the
intention should be clearly stated in the Act. But the im-
munity itself need not be taken away. In order to avoid
the anomaly the clauses should be so drafted as to bring
about the real intention of the legislature, and this we
have done in the proposed draft. ' 6. Incidentally, it may be noted that the legislature
really wanted the conditions contained in paragraph (b)
of the Proviso to apply not only to cases where business
is carried on by the institution, but also Where the business
was the subject-matter of a trust (i.e., even if there was
no institution). This object has also not. been properly car-
ried out, and some redrafting is desirable on this point
also. On this assumption, it has been made clear in the
draft that the restrictions in paragraph (b) of the Pnoviso
will apply to both the cases. ~ , 7. In short, the redraft makes clear the two points that
require clariﬁcation, namely :.--- ' (i) Exemption under section 4(3) (i) is (in the case of
a business) subject to the conditions given in@ Pro-
visio (b), irrespective of whether the business is
carried on by a trust or an institution. = (ii) The exemption is also available to institutionf not
subject to trust, (subject to the same conditons). 8. For the sake of clarity, a__ trust carrying on a busi-
ness is dealt with separately in draft sub-clause (2), and
draft sub-clause (1) is conﬁned to other properties, wide
the draft Explanation thereto. 1 9. Besides this important change, the following pbints
may also be noted :---- (a) The phrase "religious or charitable purposes?' oc-
curring in the existing Act has been replacetl by
the phrase "charitable or religious purposes", to
give more prominence to charitable purposes.' (b) The existing section 4(3) (i) opens with the words

"subject to the provisions of clause ((3) of %sub-
section (1) of section '16". The limitation expres-
sed by these words has been retained in draft sub-
clause (1), but it is to be considered whether there
is any sound reason for this limitation. '111e eﬁect
of the words ' ques .seems to be that ev n in
cases of t er tor. ' itable purpose th in-
come of the ansfe A assets is regarded " the

~33? transferor's_income.' It would be more consistent
_ with the spirit of the law if such income were ex-
cluded from total income, at least so long as the
income is applied for a charitable purpose. The

words "subject to the provisions of clause (c) of

stab-section (1) of section 1 '6" "deserve to be delet-
6 . »

Notes to clause 13. Section 25 , sub-sections (3) and (4) provide for two
things. One is the exclusion from total income of income
of certain businesses, and the. other is the right to claim
substitution of the income of the year of discontinuance
etc., in place of the last year's income. The ﬁrst part (exclusion from total income) has been -- (f%il'n(;)Odied in the present clause, with the language simpli-
e .'

CHAPTER 'Iv ~ . COMPUTATION OF TOTAL INCOME

Notes to clause 14. 1. This corresponds to section 6 of the present Act.
The opening words of the section, have, however, been mo- diﬁed so as to 'make it clear that the section merely classi-. ﬁes the chargeable income into different heads for the pur-
pose of computation of tota1.income.. fThat section.6 con-
cerns itself with classiﬁcation and seqtions 7, 8; 9 etc. with
computation is clear from the' disaussion in Kothari vs.
C.I.T ." and. in United Commercial Bank Ltd., vs. C.I.T.f 2. Item (c) relating to "Income from property" has
been changed into "Income from House Property". Sec-
tion 9 is essentially concerned with''' House Property and

the description now adopted will clearly indicate the . nature of the head. Another variation in the present section is the men- I
tion of the head "Income ﬂrom ot er sources" after the 3
head "Capital gains", indicating _"Income from other : Notes to clauses 15 to 17. A--Salarics:' Simpliﬁcation of the present section 7 has been at- tempted in the following ways :-- V (i) only the substantive provision specifying the
charge in respect of _"salaries" paid or payable by
afi employer has been dealt with in the main
c ause'. (ii) the extended meaning given to the expression "sa-
laries" is omitted from the substantive clause and
separately deﬁned in the interpretation clause; (iii) similarly, instead of mentioning the different types
of employers'in the substantive part, the term
"Employer" alone has been used, a deﬁnition hav-
ing been given separately to cover the various
txpes; 7

(ivj the permissible deductions are placed in a separate
clause; (v) the present Explanations about "perquisites"
(Expln. 1) and "proﬁts in lieu of salary" (Expln. 2)
have been placed in the interpretation clause. V 2. Provisions dealing withincome classiﬁable as salary,
scattered elsewhere 'in the Act, have been collected
together, e.g., draft clause'----dealing with notional payments
from provident funds etc. 3. The existing section makes a distinction between
salary which is "due" to an employee and other salary
"paid" which is not due to him. The former is taxable on
"due" basis whether actual payment has been made or not,
while the latter is taxable on the basis of actual payment.
This aspect is more clearly brought out in the present draft.
(See the decision of Calcutta High Court in Bhuban Mohan
Banerjee vs. C.I.T .' though in an earlier decision' it was
held that an amount due in one year could be taxed in a
later year in which it was received). 4. Arrears of salary would, at ﬁrst sight, appear to be
delayed "payments" for amounts which had already ac-
crued "due'-' in thelyear or years in which the employee
had rendered service. Looked at from this angle, they do
not present much difﬁculty. But the arrears of salary which call for speciﬁc treat-
ment are those where Services are rendered in a past "ear
but the quantum of payment to be made is not determpned
till the year of receipt of the amount by the employee in a
subsequent year, or where the emoluments of the post are
revised or 'a promotion is made'retr_ospectively. In these
case-s"it will be difficult to include in the regular original
assessment the arrears sanctioned and paid subsequently,

' Cl c 15. V
' Viftusdx-aft clause 17 (2) gi) and (vii). ,- .- - _j
I (1956) 29 I.K.R. 229,_2 . A ; ﬂ
' Uslmraui R0] Clwudhuralu, In re. (1911). I0. [..'I.'3R. 199. '339

since in many cases the determination may take years. It
would also not be possible to keep the assessment pending
until such determination is made. The Departmental prac-
tice has been to include such arrears in the total income -of the year of receipt. Relief is aﬁorded against the hard-
ship involved in the taxation of the lump-sum by means of
an order under section 60 , sub-section' (2), the effect of
which is that the arrears are attributed to the periods to
which they should reasonably be related. Assessment in
the year of receipt is in accordance with the decision of
the Calcutta High Court in Usha Ram' Roy Choudhuran'i.'s
case. The recent decision of the Calcutta High Court in
Bhuban Mohan Bane'rjee's case,' however, contains obser-
vations which may be taken to mean that a salary pay-
ment made in a subsequent year would still be taxable
'only on due basis in the ﬁrst year. The decision does not
create any diﬁiculty if the word "due" is interpreted as
relating to the point of time when the amount is actually
«quantiﬁed by the employer. On this view the claim for
relief under section 60(2) may not be admlssible. But
if it is intended that such amounts should be related to
the back years and subjected to tax under section 34 , diffi-
culty may arise in the initiation of such proceedings be-
cause of limitation. It can even be argued that these are
not cases of escapement of -income, there being no omis-
sion or commission by the assessee or by the Department.
'There will be further difficulty for the employer in the
matter of making deduction of tax at source, and some
confusion is bound to arise as to whether the tax so deduct- ed at the time of payment should be' given credit for the

year for which the assessment under section 34 is supposed
to be made. . On the whole the present Departmental practice seems
to be a reasonable compromise and is fair to the assessee
and the Department. It is fair to the Department because
the complication of section 34 is avoided, and even when
.an. order under section 60(2) is passed the consequential' ad-
justment of tax is made in that assessment itself and not
'by reopening past assessments. It ispftnir to the assessee,
because if the amount were to be treated as due only when
it is paid, the question of relief under' section 60(2) would
not.arise, while the Departmental practice ensures that the
assessee is to be in the same position as if he had been
"taxed in the respective years after spnead-back of the ar-
rears to the relative period. »

There may, of course, be cases when the assessee will
be worse off by the arrears being related back than when
he is taxed on the arrears. This will happen when the ar-
rears of salary are received after retirement or after rever-
sion from a higherpost. In those cases-tl'ie'ass'essee will not
apply for relief under section 60(2) and no action is taken
by the Department itself 'section :34..o,r otherwise. .'-M (1942) I0'l'.=-T. An. 199."=- - 
t (1956) 29 I. 'r. R. 229,236. .~ 340 -- In view of the position discussed above draft sub-clause (c) has been added to deal adequately with arrears. 5. Section 60(2) was placed on the statute book at a
time (in the-"yea,r" 1939) when the chargeability of salary
was not on due basis but on freceipt" basis, under sec-
'lc1on 7 as it stood then. Accordingly it continues_to emp-
oy language appropriate to a_higher tax burden in conse-
quence of the employee "receiving" a payment as salary
in arrears or for more than twelve months. This contin- gency will not arise on the present "due" basis of taxation
on salary. It is, however, proposed notto make any changes in
that section, since the section will be useful in so far as
it gives relief in respect of lump-sum payments received by
the employee and treated as pmﬁts in lieu of salary nder
explanation 2 to section 7(1) . It may also be use 1 in
view of the fact that. a provision for charging arrears not
already taxed has been added in the draft. 6. A few minor points also deserve notice; These are ~

as follows :-- sent section 7(2) (ii) ' does not make this clear. The changes made by the Finance Act, 1958, have been
given effect to. (ii) Draft clause 16 (iv) :---The allowance for expenses-
incurred by an employee in the performance of his duties
has been made exclusive not _only of entertainment allow-
ance (as at present), but also of the allowance for ex nses
for books etc. and conveyance allowance. The existin pro-
vision; section 7(2) (iii) , does not include these latte . cate-
gories. The change has been made in order to make' the
provision comprehensive. 3

The wording has also been changed so as to make it
precise. The word "necessarily" has been omitted,§ as it
is unduly restrictive. We have followed the language of
existing section 10(2) (xv) . ~

It may also be pointed out that the Royal Commission
on the Taxation of Proﬁts and Income (United Kingdom)'
examined the corresponding. provision in the UK.' »Act
(Schedule E or old Rule 9)' aid has recommended that the
allowance should be made liberal'. It has proposed' the

'';'Now see the U. K. ngaome-may-.'g 1952, mun. schedule, Ru! 7.
' non: Commiuionon' Tan! 'ofhoﬁts udtlnoolue, Final c.
Juner955.(C-ml-941>.P-se4 p g 140-. . r ' - M: priate performance of the duties of the oﬁice or employ-
ment". This, the Commission has pointed out, would re-
move the complaint that the legislature imposes upon
those in employment a narrower form of allowance for
expenses than it accords to persons deriving a private in-
come from their own efforts. The wording suggested by

the Royal Commission is worth consideration as an alter-'

native. (iii) Draft clause 17(1) :--'1'-he deﬁnition of "employer"
as now adopted includes a foreign Government, reference
to which is not to be found in the present section 7 . It is
for consideration whether the mention 'of foreign Govern-
ment as employer is acceptable; It has been suggested that
by such inclusion the assessee'will not be subject to any
heavier tax burden but on the other hand may qualify for
relief under section 60(2) which will be advantageous to
him. The possibility of an employee of a foreign Govern-
ment being required to make an actual payment of tax (on
"due" basis) without actually receiving the salary will
not arise, because section 7(1) , 2nd roviso, lays down that
where tax is deductible at source, t e sesessee shall not be
called upon to pay the tax himself unless he has received
salary without deduction. How far the procedure for de-
duction ( section 18 ) will be enforceableagainst a foreign
Government will also be a matter for consideration. (iv) Draft clause 17(2) :---Item (ii) relating to annui-
ties has provoked some discussion. It has been suggested
that annuities paid by the Government or local authorities
should be taxed as salary irrespective of Whether the payee
is an employee or not. This cannot be accepted, as it goes
against the basic scheme of the section. Notes to clauses 18 to 21

The existing section 8 is now covered by four clauses.'
The first clause relates to the: charge, the second relates
to deduction, the third relates to deductions in the case of
banking companies and the last clause relates to amounts
not deductible. Clause 18

The word "receivable" in the present section 8(1) has
been interpreted to mean ''reoeived''.' : is decision has
been given effect to and the word "rec ed" has been subs-
tituted for the word "receivable" in e draft clause to
make the intention clear. Clause 19

This clause and draft clause 21 incorporate the subs-
tance of existing section 8 , first proviso. Thelanguage of

' Clame:_x8 to 21. ' 9; . - 'SctIaLdbh'Dd 1:' .c.1.r' w %I.T.R. Jr" '
Clwuiar v:C. I. .M:lrav:. (1953) 'P . '.13., 33"!" an , (iii) Counter-exception to the exception at (ii) above,
for interest for which tax is deducted at source or
an agent can be appointed under section 43 . *

In the draft. therefore, the proviso has been split up.
Item (i) above has been incorporated in this clause, while
itlems (ii) and (iii) have been embodied in a subsequent
c ause. The provisos to existing section 8 , which exclude cer-
tain items of expenditure incurred for realising interest
etc., do not express the exclusion as "deductions". Since,
in the draft. these have been treated as deductions, it is
possible that the deductions might. in a particular case,
exceed the total gross income. In such cases, the excess
will be treated as a loss. We do not think that this result
should be avoided. Deductions under the head "Interest
on securities" should be treated on the same lines as de-
ductions under other heads; if the income is a loss, it should
be dealt with as a loss under any other head. Clause 20

This embodies the Explanation to section 8 , recast in
form so as to make it less complex and state the.various
aspects distinctly. ' - 'Clause 21

Item (i) gives effect to the latter part ofvsection 8. ﬁrst
proviso (see notes to the clause relating to deductions,
above)

Item (ii) is new. The Madras' and Bombay' High
Courts have held that expenditure pertaining to interest
on tax-free securities is not deductible, while the Nagpur
High Court has taken a contrary view in C. P. and'Berar Provincial Co-operative Bank Ltd., vs. C.I.T. '. Effect has
been given to the view taken by the Bombay and Madras
High Courts. '

Item (iii) is also new and seeks to make it clear that
interest paid on money borrowed for investment» in tax-
free securities isnot deductible. «

'See the criticism in'Um't¢d Commercial Bank vs. C.1 . T. (1953) 241. T. R. 425. ' Madras Provincial Co-operative BONE'! case (1942) to I, T. 

i

'(!94.6) I4I.T.R.].7¢:. ,: 5..-' . 'I 343 Notes to clause 22 to 21

. _ Section 9 of the existing Act has been split up into
separate clauses'. The title of 'the head has been charged
into '"Income from house property", because the section
deals only with that property 'and not any other immova-
able property. -- In the draft, after having stated that the annual value
is the basis of chargeability, the expression "annual value" Clause 23

Sub-clause (1) :--The sub-clause corresponds to sec-
tion 9(2) and no change has been made. Sub--clause (2):--This is new. It seems desirable to
embody some rules in the Act to furnish guidance in deter-
mining the annual value of tenanted property. The draft
sub-clause tries to set out the considerations to be
borne in mind in such cases. The sub-clause, of course,
does not purport to be exhaustive, and refers only to fac-
tors of importance. «

Sub-clause (3) :---Deals with property occupied by the
owner. The ﬁrst para sets out, in a simple form, the provi-
sion contained in section 9(2) , first proviso for reduction
of the annual value. The form has been changed in order
to avoid all ambiguity. The second para corresponds to
the last line of section 9(2) , ﬁrst proviso. The existing sec-
tion provides that the annual value shall not exceed 10
per cent. of the total income of the assessee. Now the
total income of the assessee will naturally include income
from such occupied property. The calculation of the an-
nual value thus becomes a complicated mathematical pro-
blem (see formula below). It will be evident from the
formula given below that the annual value so calculated
comes to 6/55 i.e., roughly 11 r cent. of the other income
of the assessee. The draft, t erefore, provides that this
11 per cent. shall be taken as the annual value. No addi-
tional liability is saddled on the assessee. . "Cllll.I:¢S.2_2 t_o27. T y ' _ _' I" ly occupied" at all places, since the proviso is
meant only for cases where, the property, though
occupied, is not actually occupied by the ovéner; (ii) the case where the property remains un-occupied
for the whole year and the case where it remains
un-occupied for a part of the year have beengdealt
with as separate items, for the sake of 'clarity, and
the formula for computation of annual value in
the latter case has been deﬁned in clear language.
The existing expression "computed proportiqnate-
ly" sounds abrupt and does not fully express 'what
is intended. ' '

Clause 24. Sub-clause (1), Item (i):----This corresponds to s V tion
'9(2), 3rd, proviso. The existing provision bis defecti e in
form, because it brin s about in a rounda out way re-
sult which can be stagted directly. The gist of the c ause
is that inl the casehofulai telzjnargafsl ptr<:lpert%'},1_one half at tlge
rnunicipa axes s o e uc e . is nee n e
expressed in the form- of a "deeming" provision (as s.;9(2),
3_rd proviso, clause (a) appears to do) regarding the tenant's
liability, followed by a provision (clause (b) of the movi-
so) for deduction if the tenant's liability is borne by?' the
owner. i Z: Item (iv) :--No change has been made in the exist-
ing provisions [ Section 9(1) (iii) ]. Item (v) :--Existing section 9(1) (iv) , has been split
up into four items (v) to (viii) for clarity. The proviso is
transferred to a separate clause'. Item (vi): ---See notes to 'item (v) above. Items (vii) and (viii) :---See notes to item (v) above. Item (1'.r)--~No change has been made in the existing section 9(1) (v) . . Item (x)--The percentage for collection charges, as
prescribed by rules, has been embodied in the Act itself.
(As to the expression "reduced annual'-value" see notes un-
der item (ii) above). I

Item (xi)--Verbal changes have made to im- prove the language. (As to the expression "reduced annual
value" see notes under item (ii); above.) I

Item (a:ii).---This incorporates- the: substance of the
notiﬁcation providing for dedpction of irrecoverable rent. Explanation :--(See notes:under item (ii) above).
Sub-clause (2)----This gives effect to the principle con-
pline, putting it in

a more conspicuous form; 1 Clause 25. D-Proﬁts and

3.46

Clause 25. The amounts not deductible have been put 'in one
clause. Clause 26. This clause reproduces the provisions of sub-section (3): Draft Clause (a) (i)--C~ol1ects together the deductions
allowable for premises used for the business, where the as-
sessee is a tenant. Cases where, only a part of the premises is so used,
have been dealt with separately.'

Draft clause 30(a)(ii)----Dea1s with the deduction for
repairs to a building, where the assessee is not a tenant. Draft clause 30(b).----Corresponds to section 10(2)(ix) ,
earlier part. Cases where ong a part of the premises is.
used for the business, are de t with separately.'

Draft clause 30(c)--needs no comments. Notes to clause 31. This clause collects together the deductions for repairs,'

etc., of machinery, plant, etc. and does not need any com-
ments, as the changes made are verbal and consequential
on the scheme adopted in the draft. Notes to clause 32. Sub-clause (1)--The various allowances in the nature
of depreciation have been grouped together in this clause.
To simplify the clause and make it brieﬁ, the conditions for
depreciation allowance have been dealt-iwith in a separate
clause'. In the interest of clari , the various classes ofas-V
sets have been dealt with separa 1y. i a

Draft clause 32(1) (1) & (ii)--Toget '1i exhaust the first
para of existing section 10(2) (vi) . V e second para of section 10(2)(vi) , beginning with "andnvhere ....... .." and
ending with the words "cost thereof to:11he assessee" has
been omitted, as its operation is Eimited tab the year of erec-
tion of a. building erected during the assessment years 1945-
46 to 1955-56. . 1 Sec draft clause 38 (1). 3 See draft clause 38 (2). 3 Vida draft clause 34,. 2$--l Ltw Gom.[58 348 As regards the proviso to existing section 10(2)(vi) ,
clauses (a) and (c) of the proviso have been transferred to
the draft clause on conditions for depreciation'. Clause (b) of the proviso has been transferred to the
Chapter on Aggregation of income and Set off of loss, being
relevant thereto. Item 32(1) (ii)--See notes under item (i) above.
Item 32(1)(iii)---Existing section 10(2) (via) has been
simpliﬁed as follows :-- this will avoid interruption in reading. (ii) The ﬁrst parenthesis-----containing the words
"(which shall be deductible in determing the written down
value)" has been omitted. Since clause (via) now forms
part of "depreciation", the allowance will naturally be de-
ducted in determining the written down value under exist-
ing section 10(5) (bi) . (iii) The time for the allowance--ending on the
31st day of March 1959, has been transferred to the clause
relating to conditions for depreciation". If this deduction
becomes obsolete by the time the new Act comes into force,
it may be deleted. Clause 32(l)(iv)----The propositions embodied in sec- tion 10(2)(vii) are these :-- tion. "Loss" here means the difference between the
written down value and the sale price when the
latter is lower than the former; 2. A proﬁt on such sale is counted 'as income. "Proﬁt"
here means the excess of the sale price over the
written down value. (If the sale price exceeds even
the original cost, then such excess is a capital
gain.) 3. In the case of asset not sold, but discarded, eto., the

place of sale price is taken by its scrap value, as increased
by insurance moneys, etc., if received. Of these propositions, No. 2 has nothing to do with

deductions, and relates to income by way of balancing -charge. An attempt has been made to simplify the section so
as to embody these propositions in_a simple form. Simpliﬁ-
cation of the section has proceeded on the following lines :- The proﬁt aspect (2nd, 4th and 5th provisos) has been dealt
with in a separate clause relating to deemed proﬁts'. ' Vida draft clause 34. (1) and 34 (2) (iii).
' Vida draft clause 34. (2) (ii).'
' Vidc draft clause 4.1 (2), 349 (ii) Unnecessary repetition has been avoided. The 3rd
proviso and the main para of section 10(2)(vii) have been
combined in the draft in clause 32(1) (iv), since the princi-
ple is the same. Much of the existing 4th proviso repeats parts of the
3rd proviso. The draft clause 32(1) (iv) expresses the prin-
ciple behind these two provisons in such a manner as to
render repetition unnecessary in the draft for the fourth
proviso'. . (iii) Simplicity in expression in general has been at-
tempted. For example, the 3rd proviso at present says that
where insurance, etc., moneys are received, then the amount
by which the difference between the written down value
and the scrap value exceeds the amount of insurance
moneys is allowed as a deduction. This merely embodies
the simple proposition (vide proposition 3rd above), that in-
surance -moneys are added to the scrap value. Thus--the existing formula is-- Written down value minus scrap value minus Insu-
rance--Allowed deduction (Shifting "scrap value", this be-
comes) ~ '

Written down value minus' (Scrap value+Insurance)=
Allowed deduction. The draft adopts the second formula.
Sub-clause (2)--needs no comments.-
Notes to clause 33. Existing section 10(2)(vib) has been incorporated here.
An important change has been made with reference to the
year in respect of which the development rebate is to be
allowed. The existing section allows it only for the year of
acquisition or installation; but it seems desirable to allow
the rebate in the next year, if the ship or machinery is ac-
tually put to use in the next year. The proviso to existing section 10(2)(vib) has been
transferred to a separate clause relating to conditions for
depreciation and development rebate'. The changes made by the Finance Act, 1958, have been
given effect to. Notes to clause 34. . Sub-clause (1)--The' provisos to section 10(2) (vi) and section 10(2)(vib) of the existing Act lay down that the de-
duction under these clauses is to be allowed only if the pres-
cribed particulars are furnished. Thedraft embodies this
requirement and extends it to deductions under existing section 10(2)(via) and 1G(2)(vii) also, since these cases
should stand on the same footing so far as the point under
discussion is concerned. '

' Draft clause 4.1 (2). ' Vida draft clause 34. (3). Sub-clause (2)--1t2m (i)----Is new. It embodies a provi-
sion contained at premnt in the rules [vide Rule 8, First
and Second Provisos, Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922], as
to depreciation for user for part of the year.'

Item (ié)----Incorporates the limitation contained in the
last line of existing section 10(2) (via) . If the deduction it.
self becomes obsolete, this might have to be deleted." Item (11ii)--Corresponds to existing section 10(2)(vi) ,
proviso (C), under which the aggregate allowance for de-
preciation should not exceed the original cost. The existing
section applies to the allowances under section 10(2) (vi) and 10(2)(via) only. The draft will cover section 10(2) (vii). also, since it culd not have been the intention of
the legislature to exclude that allowance from the rule
that the aggregate of such allowances should not exceed
the original cost. Item (iv)--Where an asset is sold etc., in the previous
year, the allowance under section 10(2)(vii) will be suffici-
ent and there will be no need for an allowance under:exist-
ing section 10(2)(vi) or 10(2)(via). The draft provision has
therefore been added to avoid a double allowance. Since
the draft was prepared. the Finance Act . 1958, has also in-
corporated this provision. in the Act. But it would, seem
that "furniture" should not be subject to the restriction em-
bodied in this clause, since existing section 10(2) (vii) does
not apply to furniture. The draft retains "furniture" in
view of the Finance Act . but the matter requires to be con~
sidered. '

Sub-clause (3)--A part of existing section 10(2) §(vib),
as amended by the Finance Act, 1958, has been inco orat-
ed here. The changes are mostly verbal and 'cons,quen--
tial; but an important point which requires to be mdntion-
ed is, that, the words "and if any gush ship, machinery or
plant is sold .......... ..", occurring in the latter half of the
proviso to existing section 10(2) |(Vib) have, in the draft, been
taken as applicable to all ships etc., in respect of which
development rebate has been obtained, and not conﬁned to
the ships etc. to which clause (b) of that proviso applies.
This wider interpretation seems in consonance With section
35(ll) (as inserted by the Finance Act, 1958) which is appli-
cable to all ships etc.

The provisions contained in existing section 10(2l3) and
(2C) have been omitted in the draft. It is understood that
Government does not want to enforce these provisions for
the future: in any case. the 'changes made in existing sec-
tion 10(2)(vib) render these provisions superﬂuous, at least
so far as development rebate ls concerned. 1 See also last para of qotcs to claquse 38. 
' See also notes to draﬂ clause 32 (iii). '

.3 'J 351 Notes to clause 35. Subsclauae )(1)--Item (i) needs no comments. Items (ii) and,(.iii) represent section 10(2) (xiii) , which has been
broken _ for' clarity. Item (iv) corresponds to section
10(3) (x1v , re ating to allowance for capital expenditure
o_n scientiﬁc research. For simplicity, the broad principle
for allowing such expenditure as a deduction, embodied in
existing section 10(2)(xiv) , first para, earlier portion, has
been embodied here. The rest of the provisions of section
10(2)(xiv) , and its provisos deal with (i) detailed conditions
and provisions for deduction, or (ii) rules regarding proﬁt
on sale of the asset or (ii) interpretation. These have been
dealt with separately.'

Sub-clause (2)---Item (i) & Eacp1anat1l<m.----These cor-
respond to the existing provisions in section 10(2)(xiv) ,
ﬁrst para and first proviso. An attempt has been made to

simplify the expression and make it direct. No change

has been made in the substance. As the allowance is
granted in both cases (t'.e., whether the expenditure was
incurred before or after commencement of business), it
will suffice to say so. without making separate elaborate
provision for the two cases. The draft Explanation states the ﬁrst Proviso in a
different form, which is positive. Item (z'i)----needs no comment, except that the affirma-
tive provision in existing section 10(2)(xiv) , 2nd Proviso (a) (ii), has been made to precede the negative provision
in section 10(2)(xiv) , 2nd Proviso, (a) (i). The deduction
allowed under this item takes the lace of the 1 /5th in item (i). This is made clear in the dra t. Item (tii)--Language has been simpliﬁed.
Item (iv)--Needs no comments. Item (v)--Correspondens to the earlier portion of sec-
tion l0(2)(xiv), 2nd Proviso (e). The latter portion has
been transferred to the interpretation clause.'

Sub-clause (3)--needs no comments. The contents of
the Explanation to section 10(2) (xiv) , have been transfer-
red to the interpretation clause.' '

Sub-clause (4)--needs no comments.
Notes to clause 36. Sub-clause (1)--deals with deductions for insurance of
stocks and stores. Sub-clause (2)--Item (i)--needs no comments except
that the wording in the existing section >10(2)(x), proviso,
has been sought to be improved. The existing phrase, "the

1 Vid d ft clause 35(2) and d aft clau ' 41(3) S '2(5) respectively.
' Vid: drift clause 42(1), Explﬁnation I?! *
' Vida draft clause 42(5). 4 352 amount is of a reasonable amount" unnecessarily repeats
the word "amount". Item (iz)--This is new and has been added to help an
assessee to get a deduction where bonus is paid in ursu-
ance of any award of an industrial or other tribuna even
if the amount is not reasonable, that is to say, even if the
condfiitigns in the existing section 10(2)(x) , proviso, are not
satis e . Sub--clause (3)----corresponds to existing section 10(2) (iii). The proviso has been transferred to the clause on
amounts not deductible', in order to simplify the sub-clause
and make the arrangement logical. Sub-clause (4)--Section 58R, ﬁrst para, which pertains
to the deduction of the contribution of an employer to an
approved superannuation fund, should really ﬁnd a refer-
encfe amongst deductions, and has therefore been referred
to ere. =

Sub-clause (5)--needs no comments. Sub-clause (6)--corresponds to existing section 10(2) : 5
changes made are explained (xi) for bad debts. below:---- The

Opening lines--Instead of the words "bad and doubtful
debts" the words "debts or parts thereof that are estab-
lished to have become bad debts" have been used. The
word "doubtful" is unnecessary and does not add anything
to what is conveyed by "bad". Item (i)----A condition has been added that the debt
must have been taken into account in computing the in-
come for an earlier year. This follows section 11(1)(e) of
the Canadian Income-tax Act and section 63(1)(a) of the
Australian Income-tax Act. Item (ii)----The requirement expressed by the _words
"not exceeding the amount actually written off" etc.. ap-
pearing at the end of existing section 10(2) (xi) , ﬁrst para,
has been given here the shape of a condition. First Proviso--This embodies the latter half of the
existing proviso. [The earlier half of the existing proviso
deals with "proﬁt". not "deduction", and is therefore trans-
ferred to a separate clause".]

Second Prom'so--is intended to meet a case like

this : left as toits irrecoverability then. The debt will be treat-
ed as a bad debt for the account year 1958-59, and the mere
fact that it was written off in an earlier year should not
bar the grant of a deduction. This result could have been brought about by suitable
words in draft item (ii) also (e.g., by adding "or earlier
previous year" there). But a proviso has been preferred in
order to avoid obscurity. Notes to clause 37. This embodies section 10(2)(xv) . The existing section uses the words "not being an al-
lowance of the nature described" elsewhere; the word "al-
lowance" has, in the draft, been replaced by the word "ex-
penditure" which is more appropriate in the context. Notes to clause 38. Sub--clause (1)--The limitation contained in existing section 10(2) , Proviso, regarding deduction for rent where
a part of the premises is used as a dwelling house, has been
incorporated here in para (a). Similar limitation regard-
ing deduction for repairs, contained in existing section
10(2_)(ii) , Proviso, has been embodied in para (b). In draft para (a), the annual value of the part used for
the business has been mentioned, in preference to the an-
nual value of the part used as a dwelling house men-
tioned in the existing section, as the former seems to be a
more direct way of stating the rule. The words "as the Income-tax Oﬁicer may determine" See also notes below under sub-clause (2). Sub-clause (2).--Existing section 10(2) (ix) , provides
for deduction for» land revenue etc. and says that the deduc-
tion is for that "part" of the premises which is used for
the business. The provision for deduction has already
been dealt with in the draft clause on deductions. The
present draft sub-clause deals with the limitation regard-
ing "part". The provision has been made more elaborate, on the
lines of existing section 10(2)(i) , Proviso (See notes to
sub-clause (1) above). [Logically speaking. draft sub-clause (1), for section
10(2) (i) and (ii) Proviso (for deduction for rents and re-
pairs where a part of the premises is used as residence)
should also be framed on the same lines as draft sub-clause

(2). The existing provision op these bints is conﬁned to
cases where a part is used as ;a "dwélyiflg house". It does 354 not deal with a case where the part is used not as a dweI- '

ling house but for some otherpurpose not connected 'with
the business. However, no change has been made in this
respect in draft sub-clause (1), in order to avoid any al-
teration in tax liability.]

Sub-clause (3)--corresponds to existing section- 10(3).
The word "wholly" has been replaced by the word "exclu-
sively". It has been held' that the words "not wholly .... .."
mean that the building is not used exclusively for the
purposes of the business, but for other purposes also.
(These words, the court held, have nothing to do with
the period of user during the previous year.) The draft
gives effect to this decision. The section has also been made more elaborate: by
providing that the Income-tax Officer is to determine' the
amount with reference to the extent to which the user was
for the purpose of the business. It must have been noticed that the Act does not deal
with all cases of partial user in the context of deduc-
tions. User may be partial in point of-- (i) Space, i.e., only a part of the building is used for

the business; 3 (ii) purpose, i.e., only some of the purposes of the user
are business purposes; or . (iii) duration, i.e., the building is used only for a part
of the previous year. (Moreover. there may be. partiality both in point of
space and time, time and duration, and so on.) The Act deals with (i) and (ii) only, and that too
only for certain kinds of deductions. It does not deal in
so many words with (iii). The draft also does not gt) be-
yond the Act, except that a earlier clause' embodies a
provision contained in the r es regarding user which is
partial in point of duration. Notes to clause 39. _i
No change has been made in existing section 32 Notes to clause 40. This clause collects together all amounts"not deduc-
tible in computing the proﬁts and gains of business, etc.
The scheme adopted is to proceed from the general to

special. Thus, rules common to all assessees come ﬁrst '

[para. (a)], while those applicable to particular kinds of
assessees are placed after them. '

z
' C. I. T. vs. Dalmia cnt Ltd. ;I(Ip4.5) r3 l.'P.R. 415. 
' Sec draft clause 34(2) ). ,4 P - I

i

 ' (Q? m% . Para (a)- Item (t)--An attempt has been made to simplify the
language. The last 17 words of the existing section 10(2) (iii) Proviso, relating to interest paid to a partner have
been oitnitted, as para (b) of present draft clause will
cover 1 . Item (ii)--needs no comments. Items (iii) & (iv)---need no comments except that
zslight verbal changes have been made to secure clarity. Para (b)--Needs no comments. Para (c)--The words "expenditure _or" have been add- -ed in item (ii) in order to make it clear that moneys ac-
tually spent (by a person having a substantial interest in
.a company) are also excluded from deductions. Para (d)--embodies the last line of clauses (a) and (b)
of the Explanation to existing section 8 . The bar against
double deduction of such amounts has been embodied in
"the draft for that section,' but has been repeated here in
order to make the list exhaustive. Notes to clause 41. There are provisions scattered 'at. various places in
: section 10 , enacting that a certain amount shall be treated
as a» proﬁt of business and taxed accordingly. An attempt
has been made here to collect all of them together. Sub-clause (1)-Needs no. comments. Sub--clause (2)--is an attempt to state in a simple form
"the propositions embodied in the second and the fourth
"provisos to section 10(2)(vii) . The second proviso is con-
ﬁned to assets which are sold and bling proﬁts, while the
fourth proviso deals with assets which are discarded etc.,
and bring proﬁts. The' draft sub-clause (read with the
draft Explanation 1) combines both th'ese_cases. It must, of course, be noted that the existing fourth
proviso is highly involved in language, and does not dis-
close easily the rule that is to be ap lied. But there can
'be no doubt that the true rule is is--t-hat if the scrap
value plus the amount of insurance 'moneys etc., exceeds
the written down value, then the excess is taxed as a
"business proﬁt to the extent to which the original cost is
not exceeded. The proviso as drafted is faithful,to this rule. More-
»over, it avoids the ambiguity arising from the existing
words "so much of the excess as does not exceed the dif-
fference between the original.cost a .the written down
~v_alue less the scrap valug". [Th flmbiguity arises by

E . -. 4 Draﬁ clause 2o(ii). 7 'll

E

«>.»..:.: . reasonof the fact that the word "less" can be read either
with (1) excess, or with (11) difference, or with (iii) written - down value.]

The following analysis of the fourth' proviso is intend- ed to show how each part of the proviso has been dealt with
in the proposed draft. Existing section. How incorporated. 1. "Provided futher . . . . . .exceeds the I. The italicised words are unneces-
diiference between the written down sary, since deduction is allowed only
value and the scrap value no amount where the written down value is not
shall be allowed under this clause." exceeded. (See existing Sec. 10(2) (vii), 3rd Prov.) 0. "and so much of the excess shall be 2. Incorporated in the} present draft

deemed to be profits". 3. "and so much of the excess as does
not exceed the deference between the
orz'_gz'nal cast and the written down value
less the scrap value." sub-clause (2). 3. 'l'het:ue rule behind the italicised
words has been incorporated in a.. simpliﬁed form in the present draft
sub-clause (2), as already explained
in the notes. The function of draft Explanation 1 has been explain-- ed above. Draft Explantions 2 and 3 do not need any com-
ments. Sub-clause (3)----needs no comments. The changes" cannot be frozen at the ﬁgure of written down value of
the previous owner, as the existing section purports to do.
The real object is to invent an "actual cost" (because a.
person acquiring property by gift and not paying anything
for it does not, actually, incur any cost). The provision has therefore been placed as an Expla-
nation under the deﬁnition of actual cost, with suitable
verbal changes. Explanation 3: The only change made in existing sec-
tion 10(5)(a), lst Proviso, is to add, after the word 'busi-
ness', the words 'profession or vocation' to make the pro-
vision comprehensive. (Cf. existing section l0(5)(a), 2nd
Proviso). Explanation 4: Existing section 10(5)(a) , 2nd Proviso,
has been transferred to the deﬁnition of actualcost, since
it pertains to that topic. A few verbal changes have been: tion 10(5)(a) have been shifted to the deﬁnition of "actual
cost", for the reasons given above in the notes relating to
draft sub-clause (1), Explanations 3 and 4. Para (b) and Prom'so--need no comments. «

Explanation 1.--Corresponds to the second proviso to section 10(5)(b) _. The form has been changed. The exist- Explanation 5: This is based on section 12B(l), 2nd. ing provision says that in cases of succession to business, '

the actual cost referred to in the main part (deﬁnition of
"written down value") shall be the costto the predecessor
in business. The effect of th' is, the written down value
that would have been adopte¥ in the , lie of the predecessor

'E--Capital
:gall'lS. .in business will be regarded as the written down value of

the asset even in the hands of She successor. This effect has
been sought to be brought about more directly in' the 'pro-
vision as drafted. . Explanation 2.--is based on section l2B(1), 2nd pro-
'VlS0. Clause (c)--of_the existing deﬁnition of written down
value has been shifted to thedeﬁnition of "actual cost"- .See notes above relating to draft sub--clause (1), Explana-
tion 3. Eacplanatton 3.--embodies existing section 10(5) , Ex-
planation, latter half, without any change. , '

Notes to clause 43. This is a new clause. There is some doubt as to whe-
ther the residences constructed for employees are buildings
used for the purposes of the business or not. The adminis-
trative instructions appearing on page 447 of the Income- The instructions. which appear to be in accordance
with the strict legal position, aresought to be codiﬁed
by this clause. Notes to clause 44. The provisions regarding insurance business, contain-
ed in the existing Schedule, have been placed in the ;draft
First Schedule, but Rule 9 of the existing Schedule has
been placed here in view of its importance. [For a deﬁ-
nition of "mutual insurance company", see the South
African Income-tax Act, 1941, First Schedule, para 2(ti).]

Notes to clause 45. General---- Existing section 12B has been split up into several sec-
tions in the draft, in order to facilitate its understanding.
The charging provision comes ﬁrst, followed by the year
of charge and mode f comp' ' tion of the gains. D ailed
provisions for ﬁxing e cost' the asset follow nex , and
provisions, in the no of 1 mption come at the e

 
 
 

359'

Draft clause 45.--The changes made are verbal only.
The existing words "the tax shall be payable" have been
replaced by the words ....... .."shall be chargeable to in-
come-tax" as in other sections. The words "save as other--
wise provided" have been added merely as a drafting im-
provement. ~

The existing reference to the date 31st March, 1956,
has been omitted as obsolete. But it has been made clear that the transaction must
have been effected "in the previous year". Though this
might amount to a repetition of a provision already con-
tained in the Act, namely, that income chargeable as capi-
tal gains is deemed to be the income of the previous year
in which the transaction took place,' still such clariﬁca-
tion appears to be useful in the main section also. Notes to clause 46. This clause ﬁxes the previous year to which the income
should be related. Notes to clause 47. Existing section 12B(1), 1st proviso, and earlier part of
the 2nd proviso, have been combined together. The latter
part of the 2nd proviso really appertains to the deﬁnitions.
of "actual cost" and "writtendown value" and is placed
there. '

Sub-clause (i)--needs no comments. Sub-clause (ti)--The existing provision reads "any dis--
tribution ............. .. under a deed of gift". The term "dis-- tribution" may not, it is apprehended, cover a gift to a

single donee. It has, therefore,_ been replaced by "transfer".
The words "deed of" have been omitted, so as to include-
oral gifts. Sub--clause (iti)--The existing provision requires that'
the subsidiary company should be "registered under the In-
dian Companies Act, 1956 ". (Before it; amendment in 1956,
the wording was "registered under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 ".) Obviously, however. the intention is that the
subsidiary company should be an "Indian company". The
wording has been changed acdordingly. (It may be noted,
that the existing wording wogild, if "construed strictly, ex»
clude companies registered under a pie-1956 law, and this" Items ('c) and (d) are not applicable to non-deipreciiable
assets. The existing section mentions all these ingredients while
dealing with the normal situations covered by section 12B
(2)(ii) and 2nd proviso, but does not do so when dealing with
certain special situations. In the draft. however. it has been
considered desirable to make the provision for each situation
elaborate and to state all the applicable ingredients. Scheme- The scheme adopted in the clause is to deal in separate
sub-clauses with the mode of statutory cost according to the
mode of acquisition. (The modes of acquisition have been
classiﬁed in a preceding clause).'

Sub-clause (1)---- Para. (a)----the words "cost of acquisition" have been -substituted for the existing words "actual cost", as being
more appropriate. Incidentally, the expression "actual
cost" might give rise to the impression that the deﬁnition of
that expression in section 10(5) is applicable here also. As to the expression "cost of improvements" see the
interpretation clause at the end of this group. Para. (b)----The existing section creates a slight diffi-
culty in understanding it, because it combines two things
in one, namely, (1) where the capital asset became the
property of the assessee before 1st January, 1954, and (2)
where it became the property of the previous owner be-
fore the 1st January, 1954. The draft separates these two

situations and deals with them separately for the sake of
clarity. The existing provision requires that the fair market
value should be "proved" to the satisfaction of the Income-
tax Oﬁicer. This requirement has been omitted, as it is im-
plied in all proceedings before the Income-tax Oﬂicer. 1 Sec draftclausc 4,9 and notes thcmtg. / 362 Sub-clause (2) and subsequentsub-clauses----do not need
any detailed comments. The various ingredients constitu-
ting the statutory cost have been embodied,' here. Notes to clause 51. This relates to the determination of statutory cost of
depreciable assets. The expression "adjusted" has been coin-
ed as a short expression to convey the proﬁts assessed and
losses deducted under existing section 10(2)(vii) , 3rd and 4th
provisos. It has been deﬁned in the interpretation section
pertaining to this group of sections.'

We think however, that it would be more convenient
to adopt a simple formula for arriving at the actual'cost
instead of the elaborate provisions now contained. Either
the market value on the date of acquisition if acquired be-
fore 1-1-1954 or the market value on 1-1-1954 at the 0 tion
of the assessee may be adopted, whatever be the mo e of
acquisition. In other cases the market value on the date
of acquisition may be taken. Adjustments may be made
to arrive at the statutory cost. Notes to clause 52. The verbal changes made are consequential on the. pro-
visions for arriving at the cost of the asset as re-drafted.»

Notes to clause 53. This is new. Where a capital asset is given in exchange, the qonsi-
deration received by the assessee will itself be an asset;(i.e.,
in kind and not in cash). Some rule for estimating the
value of such consideration appears to be necessary. _ The
draft clause takes the fair market value of the asselt re-
ceived by the assessee, as the basis. Paragraphs (a) and (b) are intended to deal with cases
where the transaction is not a pure exchange of asset; and
the assessee receives or gives something (usually money) in
addition to the thing received or' given in exchange. Notes to clause 54. This deals with the case where the consideration stated
in the deed of sale etc. is low. a

An important departure has been made from the exist-
ing provision. Existing section 12B(2), 1st proviso, applies
to cases where the transaction entered into with a person
'directly or indirectely' connected with the assessee. This
does not appear to be necessary and has been omitted. 1 See notes above " Cenaal ". ,
I The elaborate provisi ofscct' ' fa B, (3), Brevin at an ' for
improvements are regarded impplitﬁieafor dcpreciablé assets. \

\
. 2

The draft clause has, further, been limited to cases
where the actual consideration is not correctly give-n in the
deed. The power should not extend -'to cases where the
gogsiideration, though law, has been correctly recited in the

e . . Notes to clause 55. The question of transferring this to the chapter on
"Exclusions from Total Income" was considered, by us, but
we thought it more appropriate to retain it here. Notes to clause 56. No change of importance has been made in existing
section 12B(4) (b). Notes to clause 57. 24---l Law Com. 58 364 Sub-clause (1)--The language adopted is in conformity
with that adopted in the draft for the other heads i(e.g.,
Salaries). The words "which may be included in his 'total
income" have been omitted, as unnecessary. Under exist-
ing sections 3 and 4 , it is only income forming part of "total
income" that is subject to tax. V Therefore the words "Which
may be included in the total income" are to be read into
each section dealing with a head of income, and need not
be repeated in every section. Sub-clause (2)----Item (i) needs no comments. Items (ii) and (iii) are, in form, new; but sub-sections
(3) and (4) of existing section 12 imply that such income is
taxed under the residuary head. This implication has' been
made express in the draft. Section 12(1B) is omitted,' as it is not relevant for as- .--sessments to be made hereafter. - Notes to clause 59. Existing section 16(2) provides for two things :-- ed in the latter part and proviso. The proposition at No. (1) above has been em ' died
in a separate draft clause,' being one of the clauses deal-
ing with deemed incomes. §

The provision at No. (2) above forms the subject- 1 tter
of the present draft clause. . §
Sub-clause (1)--is introductory in nature. ~ ,

Sub-clause (2)--The grossing up of dividends is ' diffi-
cult procedure. The question of requiring comp es to
deduct tax from dividends can be considered, on th lines
of S. 184-186 of the U. K. Act:a:nd sections 43 and 49 f the
Ceylon Act. The recommendations of the Taxatio En-
quiry Commission on the subject' may also be seen.3; On the assumption that the present provision is to be
retained, sub-clause (2) attempts to state the rule g -
ing grossing up in the formfoif a formula. The e ' ting
section states the rule in an indirect manner; the w rding
"such amount as would. if i1_loome--tax etc. were d ucted
therefrom, be equal to the amount of the dividend " eates
some difficulty in actual application, because itbegin with
an unknown. The draft formula, though appearin com-
plex on account of symbols, is not so difﬁcult to app y. ' Vida draft clause 8. ,7 l

' T. E. Report, Vol. 111., Chapt1} ix, Paragraphs :8-'25, :56-:58
. I 5 '

 

' 365

The draft expresses the meaning of the clause in the
form of a simple mathematical formuia, (The method of
adopting such formula is not novel and is to be found in
the South African Income-tax Act.)

The formula is explained below 2-- \ "If G is the amount as grossed up, D the amount of the . : .. = __ (byi transpo- '
:e., G ------R------- 3. D
I --_ 10.0 
ioo--R '
Now G is composed of the net amount of the dividepd,
plus the increase; a '
roo)<D
i.e.-, G = D + Increase =
roo---R , '
xooD gr posit-3
or Increase = ------------------ ---- D . _ ) ,
1oo--R

Now, if D on the extreme right hand is expressed in
terms of fraction of 100-R, then,

100D D (roo--- R)
Increase = --j----- . -- -----~--------' - roo-R roo--R
100 D ---[1ooD--RD
i.e., Increase = -------------:-----------+,- 1 .
roo----R 'L
RD '
i.e., Increase =
roo--R

Therefore the gross dividend is the actual dividend plus
the increase so arrived at. - Sub-clause (3)-----This is based on the existing proviso to section 16(2) . The expression 'sum" been replaced in
the draft by the expression " d" p i h is more appro-
priate in the context. _ ' . 2 366 Notes to clause 60. Deductions (pertaining to income from other sources)
have been made the subject--matter of a separate clause, as
has been done in the case of income under other heads, e.g.
proﬁts of business. Item (i)--needs no comments. Item (ii)--Existing sections 12(3) and 12(4) provide that
where machinery etc. is let on hire, the assessee shall be
"entitled to allowances" in accordance with the provisions
of section 10(2) , clauses (iv) to (vii). Now, these clauses of section 10(2) provide for two things :-- ' Logically, therefore, section 12(3) and 12(4) are to be
construed as adopting not only the provisions for deductions
but also those for proﬁts, in the clauses referred to. '

The provisions for deductions are incorporated in the
draft item under discussion. The words "so far as may be" CHAPTER V

INCOMES OF OTHER PERSONS, INCLUDED' IN
' ASSESSEE'S TOTAL INCOME

Notes to clause 63. Existing section 16(1)(c) deals with two kinds of trans-
fers: '(1) transfer of income only, without transfer of the
corpus, and (2) revocable transfer of the corpus. In order to
prevent the two kinds of transfers being mixed up, it is

' considered desirable to separate the two into two sec- tions. The draft clause under discussion deals with the ﬁrst
kind of transfer. The existin section uses the words "set-
tlement or disposition" and en goes on to deﬁne these
words as including, besides other things,' "disposition" (see
second proviso). For the sake of brevity, only the word
"transfer" has been used in the draft throughout the group
of clauses incorporating section l6(1)(c). The word 'trans-
fer' has been deﬁned separately. The existing section contains the words "from assets re-
maining the property of the settlor or disponer".. These
words do not easily convey the exact meaning. The obvi-
ous intention is to refer to a case where there is no trans-
fer of the property from which the income arises. This is
made clear in the draft. Provisos 1 and 3 to the existinglsection l6(l)(c) are
framed in wide language so as to convey the impression
that they are applicable to transfers of mere income also.
But since transfers of mere income Gthat is, transfers co-
vered by the draft clause under discussion) fall within the
section "whether revocable or not", it seems incongruous
to give any deﬁnition of "revocable" in respect of such
transfers. It could not have been the intention that if the
transfer'of income is itself irrevocable, then the section will

not apply. The ﬁrst and third provisos should therefore' 

be conﬁnedlto transfers of cor us, being revocable. The cor-
responding draft clauses' ac ordingly narrow down the
scope. - Other changes are verbal. Notes to clause 64. One or two verbal changes have been made, which
do not need any comments. ' .- ' Sec draft clauses 65, 66. i - ' ': Sub-clause (2)-----'I.'his clause is newand is intended to
make it clear that the classiﬁcation of income under the
various heads as given in existing section 6 is applicable
to the share of a partner, in the same way as it applies to
the ﬁrm. In other words, just as a ﬁrm's income can be
classiﬁed under "Income from house property", "Income
from business" etc., similarly, even after the apportion-
ment of the income to. the partner, the amount apportion-
ed t-o a partner is classiﬁed under various heads. Sub--clause (3)----This is new. It gives effect to a deci-
sion of the Bombay High Court' which holds that interest
paid on money borrowed by a partner and utilized by him
for investing as capital in the ﬁrm is allowable as a deduc-
tion in computing the partner's total income, in so far as
the total income comprises his share in a ﬁrm's income. For the sake of comprehensiveness, it has also been
made clear that no other deduction is allowed in respect
of the share. Sub-clause (4)----Existing section 16(1)(b) , proviso, has I

been reproduced in this sub-clause. Strictly speaking,' this
provision should be placed along with provisions for set
off. However, it serves a useful purpose as indicating
that there is, scope for set off. It has therefore been
allowed to remain here. The words "in accordance" would,
of course, make it clear that a partner's right to set off
is not absolute, but is subject to the provisions of existing section 24 . ' '

Notes to clause 70. This clause is new and is intended to give eifel to
the legal principle that unexplained cash credits appe 'ng
in the "books of accounts of the assessee are assessab e as
income'. '

Under the decision of the Patna High Court cited,
above', such cash credits are treated as the income oﬂ the
ﬁnancial year preceding the assessment year, as the asses-
see could not have opted for any other previous year! for
such items. We have by this clause deﬁnitely laid down
that the previous year to which the income represented
by such cash credits could be related is the previous year
for which the account books are maintained and the cash
credit is entered. l

l T' I Shanta' irum Mormjeamll'. err (.95 ) 27-ITR-69.
' Cf:-C.I,.'1'. Vs. P. Daralia ;& Son:-(1 27-I FR --~515(Patna High ).
See also page 557 of Kanga and Pulkfu N , 1958 Edition. _ -
E 1 5

( 371 Notes to clause 71. This is new. Investments not appearing in the books
and not explained satisfactorily are made assessable for
the ﬁnancial year in which the investments have been
made. <

' Notes to clause 72. This is new. It deals with set off of a loss from one
business against pnoﬁts under any other business.' The
principle is well accepted by courts', and has been codiﬁed
for the sake of comprehensiveness. Notes to clause 73. General----The scheme of section 24 of the existing Act
has, in the draft, been altered by a redistribution of its pro-
visions. The existing section deals separately with--- (1) set off in the same year, ahd
(2) set off in succeeding years. But an alternative method of arrangement of the pro-
visions would be to deal ﬁrst with set off of losses, whe- ' ther in the same year or in succeeding years and then

' see Kanga. and Palkhiva.la's commentary $11 the Act

state the exceptions in both cases. This would giveto a lay-
man a complete picture of What is to be done with regard
to the losses sustained by him. The draft, therefore, pla-
ces the provisions contained in the existing section 24 in
separate sections in the following order- (i) General provision regarding set off in the same '

year and set off in the succeeding years; (ii) special provisions regarding speculation losses; (iii) special provisions regarding set off of losses «under
capital gains; (iv) special provisions for registered ﬁrms; (v) special provisions for unregistered ﬁrms assessed
as registered ﬁrms; (vi) sfpecial provisions for partners of unregistered
rms; ~ (vii) change in "constitution of ﬁrms; and (viii) submission of returns in respect of losses.
'Sub-clause (1)----As already explained above, the gene- ral rule relating to set off; whether in the same year or in
succeeding years, has been dealt with in the beginning.'

'Anglo-French Textil;t3'a L¢d.,V. C.I.T.§ 09;), 2 LT.R. 82. For other cases
31958 Edn., p. 322. _
'Draft clauxc 73. i i . Sub-clause (1) states the rule relating to set elf in
the same year (from one head to another). The existing
expression "loss of proﬁts or gains" is slightly inappro-
priate, as it speaks of "loss-" of "proﬁts". It has, therefore,
been replaced by the words "net result is a loss... .... .."
The words "subject to the other provisions of this Chap-
ter" have been added in order to make it clear that there
are special provisions regarding ﬁrms, capital gains, specu-
lation losses etc. Whichappear in the subsequent clauses. Set off is allowed, not with reference to the previous
year, but with reference to the assessment year. Previous
years may be different according to the source of income,
but the Income-tax Oﬂicen is concerned only with the as-
sessment year for which the loss is to be computed. This
is the position for carry forward also. Suitable verbal chan-
ges have been made on this point in the draft clauses
concerned. Under the existing law a loss arising under any head
is to be set off against income under the head "Capital
gains". Now it is well understood that the taxation under
the head "Capital gains" is at a lower rate than the taxa-
tion under other heads, by the operation of existing section
17(6) . The result is, that an assessee is forced to set off
a loss against capital gains. He thereby obtainsa "reduc-
tion of his taxable income which does not fetch the g same
beneﬁt as it would have fetched if the set off had beeh con-
ﬁned to other heads. For example, if a loss of Rs; 2,000
under the head "Income from property" is set off against
capital gains, then, assuming that the tax on capital gains
works out at 10 N.P per rupee, the reduction in tax §WhiCh
the assessee would obtain by such set-off would be R33. 200.
While, if the assessee is to set off the loss only against in-
come other than-capital gains, then, assuming that the rate
of tax,under other heads is 25 N.P per rupee, the educ-
tion in tax which the assessee "would -obtain by su_h set
off would be Rs. 500. It would seem that there is rea-
son for driving the assessee to *a course which cau$s pe-
cuniary loss to him. It may be noted that in the converse
case when a loss is sustained under capital gains, the'asses-
see is not allowed to set off the loss against any othe head,
vide existing section 24(2A) . The position regarding et off
against income under the head capital gains has th%§efore
been altered on the lines indicated above. The nec sary

cussion, and the draft clause corresponding to existi sec-
tion 24(2A) has been made comprehensive so as to es body
the law relating to set off otfa loss under other.' head
against capital gains, and 'vice versa, with the change dis-
cussed above. - '

changes have been made inthe draft sub-clause und'%"dis--. Sul-J--clause (2)---- raftingcfianges have been ma e on
the lines of the. ch ges e in existing section 24(1) .
See notes to sub-cla e (1) ve. , 373 The words "had no other head of income" 'have beeen
replaced in the draft by the words "had no income under
any other head", in order to make the intention clear that
carry forward of the whole loss is allowed because there
is no income againstlwhich the loss could be set off in the
year in which the loss arose. . Section 24(2) , Proviso (a_); has been already repealed. Section 24(2) , Provisos (c), (d) and (e), are dealt with
in succeeding clauses. Section 24(2) , Proviso (f), has been omitted, as its ope-
ratgén was conﬁned to assessment years which have all ex-
pir . , Section 24(3) is being transferred to the Chapter on
Procedure for Assessment. Sub-clause (3)----Does not need any comments'. Sub-clause (4)--Carry forward of losses is allowed for
a maximum period of eight years now See the amendment
made by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 957]. Sub-clause (3)
embodies this rule. In' the existing Act (as amended in
1957), the words "but no loss shall be so carried forward
for more than eight years" appear as a part of section 24(2) ,
clause (iii). This causes an ambiguity as to whether the
limit of eight years is to be counted with reference to the
carry forward referred to in section 241(2)(iii) or whether
in counting eight years the year of first carry forward
under section 24(2)(ii) is also. to be counted. The latter
construction is, obviously, what was intended. In order to
make this clear the limitation has beeneplaced in a separate
sub-clause. ' . Notes to' clause 74. Genev-al--.Speculation losses have been dealt with se-
parately in this clause. . '

Sub-clause (1)--The expression "speculation business" Sub-clause (1) relates to the very; previous year
which the loss was incurred and is bafsed on the first pro- _viso to existing section 24(1) . ~

Sub-clauses (2) and '(3) and (4)-;~The carry forward
and set off of speculation losses has been dealt with here.
The clause has been made self-contained, for the sake of

convenience, though this has necessitated a slight' amount '- of repetition.'

1 Ana the correct interpretation' this pr is'o_n see now Aluminium
Corporation qf India vs. C.I.T. West B , A.'R ?1x*58) Cal. 404..
I

' Draft clause 28, Explanation 2. ' See also notes to draft clause 73 ( 374 _ Notes to clause 75. The 'changes made are verbal and do not need any
comments. Notes to the main clause dealing with set off'
explain the drafting changes made in the existing section
24(2) , and the draft clause under discussion has also been
framed keeping in view those changes. As alreadyexplained in the notes to that clause, the
position regarding set off against capital gains has been
dealt with comprehensively in this clause. Notes to clause 76. ,
Sub-clause (1)----does not need any detailed comments. Sub-clause (2)--The prohibition against carry forward
by a registered ﬁrm, contained in existing section 24(2) ,

proviso (c), earlier half, has been embodied in this clause _

with a few drafting changes explained below. The existing provision refers to the loss of a registered
ﬁrm "which has been apportioned". These words are mis-
leading; in the case of a registered ﬁrm apportionment is
compulsory and universal. and no question of conﬁning the
provision to a loss which "has been" apportioned can arise.
The language has, therefore, been slightly altered, and the
words in question omitted. As a matter of fact, it is not necessary to have any pro-
vision at all to the effect that a registered ﬁrm cannot
carry forward its losses. The reason is, that when the loss
of A is apportioned between B and C, it no longer subsists
as the loss of A, and the question of its carry forward by
A should not arise. The proviso is, however, useﬁul by
way of clariﬁcation, particularly in View of the péculiar
nature of the provisions for assessment of ﬁrms and part-
ners in the Act, and has, therefore been retained. The prohibtion is presumably applicable to the' carry
forward and set off of losses under capital gains also, and
the draft has been framed on this assumption. '

Notes to clause 77. Existing section 24(2) , proviso ((1.), says that w en an
unregistered ﬁrm is assessed under existing section 2 5 )(b),
its losses shall "also be carried forward and set oﬁ??under
this section as if it were a registered ﬁrm". This is not an
accurate way of stating the position. A registered ﬁrm is
never allowed to carry forward its loss [see existi sec-
tion 24, sub-section (2), proviso (c), earlier half], and there-
fore, to say that the loss may be "carried forward as if
it were a registered ﬁrm" is meaningless. The language
has, therefore, been altered. Notes to clause 78. Gene1'a.l--The second proviso to existing section 24(1) consists of two parts, the earlier part dealing with unregis-
tered firms and the latter part dealing with registered ﬁrms. 1 Clause 73 (I). .. This,c1ause deals with unregistered ﬁrms, while registered
ﬁrms have been already dealt with'. '

Sub-\clause (1)--The existing provision, for unregistered
ﬁrms, says that the loss of the ﬁrm shall be set off only
against that income of the ﬁrm and not againt the income
of any of the partners. When analysed, this gives the fol-
lowing propositions :-- parately dealt with in the draft, though it follows
from the principal provision in the draft" i.e., any
assessee is entitled to have loss under one head set
off against the income under any other head. That
provision applies to unregistered ﬁrms, just as it
applies to the other assessees. (2) The loss shall not be set off against the income of
"any of the partners". What is really meant is that where an assessee is a
partner in an unregistered ﬁrm and his share is a loss, the
loss cannot be set off against his other income. Draft sub-
clause 2(a) embodies this proposition. Sub-clause (2)--As to para. (a), see notes above. As to
para. (b), minor changes have been .made. '

Strictly speaking, this provision is also unnecessary.
The main provision in section 24(2) applies to all assessees,
including unregistered ﬁrms. Therefore, any loss incurred
by the ﬁrm is to be carried forward in computing the
ﬁrm's income. ' The question of its carry forward in a
partner's income cannot arise. The provision is, however,
useful by way of clariﬁcation, as it emphasises the propo-
sition that a partner in an unregistered-ﬁrm cannot claim
a separate set off and that all that is allowed is the collec-
tive set off available to the ﬁrm as a whole. Notes to clause - 79. This clause does not need any detailed comments, ex-
cept that the draft makes it clear that the limitation im-
posed by the existing section applies in respect of set off
under existing sections 24(1) and 24(2A) as well as under tinues to be part of the total jncome. 2. Exemptions from income-tax strictly so called can be
classiﬁed as follows :-- come is not itself taken into account in calculating
the quantum of tax). ' T (ii) Sums on which rebate of tax is allowed at the ave: 3. The existing Act does make adistinction between
categories (i) and (ii) above. But the distinction is
obviously necessary. The draft, therefore, deals with the
two categories in separate chapters. . 4. In the draft, exemptions which are really in the '

nature of rebates in respect of expenditure have been placed
under category (ii). * 5. The case of earned income relief presents some spe-
cial features and has been discussed in the notes tog the
clause relating thereto. 6. Exemptions in respect of super-tax have for th ; sake '

of clarity, been dealt with separately in Chapter , on
super-tax. - Clause 81. Existing section 15A, earlier part, has'been
embodied in this clause, with minor verbal changes. The latter part of the section has of course been mit-
ted, as it becomes obsolete in view of the recent" legis ative
practice not to provide for earned income relief. The earlier part has however been retained here,§leav-
ing it to the Government to omit it if it is decided perma-
nently to abolish earned income relief. ; Notes to clause 82. . '. The clause does dot neediahy comments. The exemption from super-tax has been dealt with in
the Chapter on super-tax. Notes to clause 83. - The clause does not need any comments. The exemption from super-tax has been dealt with in
the Chapter on super-tax. The question of providing for grossing up of dividends
of co-operative societies [on the lines of the provision for
companies--existing section 16(2) ] hasnot been considered,

as the provision in respect of companies has itself provoked
a lot of controversy. Notes to clause 84. The clause does not need any comments. The exemption from super-tax has been dealt with in
the Chapter on super-tax. Notes to clause 85. Existing section 15C has been embodied in this clause. The few verbal changes that have been made are explained
below : Item_ (iv)--deals with the exemption contained in exist-
ing section 14(2)(aa) . The existing wording is slightly
involved. An attempt has been made in the draft to sim-
phfy the expression by making a few verbal changes, and
splitting up the provision into clauses. Item (v)------does not need anyacomments. CHAPTER VIII
REBATES AND RELIEFS 9 Notes to clause 88. Generalv--The provisions contained in the existing Act
which are in the nature of rebates of income-tax on cer-
tain expenditure have been collected together in this
Chapter. (The discussion at the beginning of notes to
the previous Chapter explains the scheme adopted in the 3
draft in respect of exemptions from tax.)'

Sub-clause (1),' paragraphs (a) and (b)---These deal
with rebate in respect of _life insurance premiums. The
following drafting. changes have been made- (i) The words "in the previous year" have been added
in the draft for existing section 15(1) , for the sake
of precision. i (ii) The existing section 15(1) speaks of sums paid "to
effect" an insurance, but when speaking of d&erred
annuities it uses the words "in respect of" a; con-
tract, for a deferred annunity. For the. sake
of uniformity, the e ression "to effect" has, in the
draft, been used for th the cases. See items (i)
and (ii) of paragraph (a). ' (iii) While sums paid as ordinary premium might be co-
vered by the existing words "to effect" an insu-
rance, sums paid for the purpose of keepin T alive
a policy or preventingit from lapsing may ot be
covered by those words. In the draft, the efore.
the words "keep in force" have been adde both
in respect of insurance and in respect of co tracts
for deferred annunities. See items (i) and ii) of
paragraph (a) and also paragraph (b). Sub-clause (1), paragraph (c)--'l'he words "in the pre-
vious year", have been added to secure precision. The words "provided that the sum so deducted shall
not exceed one-ﬁfth of the salary", existing in section 7 .
sub-section (1), First Proviso have in the 'draft been re-
placed by the words "in so far as the sum so deducted

I. See notes to draft clqisc 8x-- "¢3¢mral".
a "5 = '
1 " = -3'79

dpes not exceed one-ﬁfthof saIaJ}"T. Where the deduc-
tion exceeds one-ﬁfth of the salary, -the existing language
would, if construed strictly, exclude the deduction in toto.
The obvious intention, however, is to limit the exemption

to one-ﬁfth and not to completely dixllow the exemption
in -such cases. ' '

The limit of one-ﬁfth cogéained in the existing section
has been repeated in the dr ; but, tiirice existing section
15(3) has been amended recently (vide Finance No. (2) Act
1957) so as to raise the limit under that section from one-
ﬁfth to one--fourth. it would be desirable to make a corres-
ponding increase in the limit under existing section 7(1) First Proviso, also. Sub-clause (1), paragraph; (d) & (e), do not need any
comments. Sub-clause (2)----Existing section 1 §(2A) has been split: 25-47 Law Com.i58

V an clause, which 380 The First Proviso to existing section 1513(1) hasbeen
dealt with in the Chapter on Super-tax, where the exem

tion for super-tax in respect of donations has been (1 t
with separately'. '

Sub-clause (2)---does not need any comments. Sub-clause (3)--The changes made are all verbal and
consequential on the scheme adopted in the Act in respect
of exemptions. Sub-clause (4)--does not need any comments, since the
changes are minor and verbal. Sub--clause (5)--The existing section 15B(2) requires
that certain conditions should be fulﬁlled by an institution
or fund to which the section applies. Condition No. (iv)
contains the word "or" at the end and is followed by con-
dition No. (v). It is not clear whether the "last condition
No. (v) is an alternative to condition No. (iv) only, or' whe-
ther it is to take the place of all the conditions (i) to (iv).
Since condition No. (iii) contains the word "and" at the
end, it can be argued that conditions Nos. (i) to (iv) are to
be taken together and condition No. ,(v) is to be taken s'ep-
arately. But thisdoes not seem to have been the inten-
tion; the result of such construction would be to eliminate
a very important requirement, namely, the requirement in
condition No. (i) that the income should be exempt under
the category for "Charitable Institutions". The ﬁrst three

4 conditions should be fulﬁlled by all the institutions or

funds, While the fourth and ﬁfth conditions are alterna-
tives to each other. This intention has been brought out
in the draft by combining the contents of existing condi-
tion No. (v) with condition No. (iv). '

Condition No. (i) at present requires that the institu-
tion should be one "the incmne whereof is exempt iunder
clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 4 ". But in: cases
where an institution has no property, the applicati n of
this condition becomes difficult. The wording has, . here-
fore, been slightly altered. _ Further, institutionst ough
not strictly falling under section (4) (3) (i), such as iver-
sities or educational institutions not existing for jproﬁt,
should be regarded as standing on the same footin as
purely charitable institutions, and they have, thefefore,
been included in the draft (just as their income ha' been
exempted----See the draft clause inserted on the s 'ect'.
Institutions depending on voluntary contributions ; ave
also been included in the draft. i

Existing condition No. (iv), when mentioning univer-
sities, requires that they should be established by law, but
when speaking of other educational institutions recognis-
ed by or aﬂiliated to universities, it does not add the re-
quirement that the university should be established by law. I Vida draft clause :09 (3). - g .,
'bnftclauae n(24). T , - i , . '.,_V 381 The intention, obviously, is to require. that the afﬁliating

or recognising university must itself . be established by
law. This has been made clear in the draft. Sub-clause (6)--does not need any comments. The exemption in respect of super-tax has been dealt
with separately in the Chapter. on super-tax'. It would be conducive to simplicity and will lessen the. work of the administration, if I provision is made for the
issue of a certiﬁcate (after enquiry by the Income-tax Offi-
cer or the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner having juris-
diction over the institution or trust) that the institution or
trust satisﬁes the conditions of this section. Donations made
to such institutions or trusts will automatically be' entitled
to the exemption if the other'conditions of the section are
fulﬁlled. This would obviate enquiry every year by differ- -ent Income-ftax Officers before whom the exemption is
claimed by donors in different jurisdictions. Notes to clause 90. The existing provision is conﬁned to "Proﬁts in lieu
of salary". In the draft it has been extended to "Perqui-
sites" also. Perquisites may sometimes be in cash, and the
provision might be useful in such casa; The power to grant relief in respect of super-tax has
been dealt with separately in the Chapter on Super-tax". Notes to clause 91_. Existing section 25 , sub-sections (3) and (4), deal with
two things}- (i) total exemption for income of the year in which
a business is discontinued or succeeded to, (ii) substitution relief, whereunder. the income of the
year of discontinuance or succession can
be substituted for the income of the immediately
preceding year. . ' '

The ﬁrst concession has been alredw dealt with in a
previous _chapter;' the second oncessi n has been dealt
with in the clause under discus 'on. A f W drafting changes
have been made in order to secure cla'°ity. As to the position concerning super-tax, see the Chap-
ter on super-tax.'

' Vida draft clause :09. 5 Vida draft clause H2. ,

8 Via dun cluue :3 in chapter 111.; 'r
'Vihdritclmuroo. , 882 The provision embodied in the draft is applicable only
to a business assessed under the 1918 Act. It is for consi-
deration whether this concession is at all necessary after
the lapse of such a long time'. CHAPTER IX
DOUBLE TAXATION RELIEF
Notes to clause 92. This clause does not need any comments.
Notes to clause 93. The following drafting changes have been made in
the existing sections-- w (i) The word "previous" has been added before: the
word "year", since residence is deﬁned with ;&'efer-
ence to previous year. (ii) The existing words "country with which there is
no reciprocal arrangement" have been replaced by
the words "country with which there is no' agree-
ment under section .......... .. [49A]" for their sake
of precision. The "reciprocal arrangement" }refer-
red to in the existing section could only be an
agreement under section 49A. ' E (iii) Sub-sections (2) and (4) of existing section} 49D
have been omitted, as their operation is now epent. (iv) Suitable words have been 'added at the en" of
sub-clause (1) to cover a case where the ndian
rate and the foreign/rate are equal. 5
Notes to 'clause 94. - \
Existing section 49C(1) contains a reference to ction 49. But section 49 has been 'repealed by the Inco e-tax
and Business Proﬁts Tax. (Amendment) Act, 1948 ( 8 of
1948). The reference to section 49 has, therefore' been
omitted in the draft. - i

No other change' has been made. CHAP{I'ER x
PROVISIONS AGAINST :AVOIDANCE or T - Notes to: clause 95. i ' 9

V
Sub--section (2) of sectidn 42 has been redrafte with
a" view to bringing out What was really intended. he ob-
ject is to catch the income of the resident where busi-
ness is_ carried on between a resident and a non-residdnt and
the proﬁts of such business are camouﬂaged_.in such7a way
A . El 9 ' 
1 Cf. the discussion info Report 'athe Incbinc-tax Invcstigqtiqp 
sion (:948).pases :53-I55-1:-ram ' -35o- " ' 1 I 383 that the resident receivesteither. no proﬁts or less than nor-
mal proﬁts. In such a case the Income-tax Officer ~ has
to determine the true proﬁts of the 1'?-sident attributable
to such camouﬂaged transactions. This is now brought out
clearly in the draft. ' '

The existing section says that the income of the non-
resident shall be chargeable "in the name of the resident
who shall be deemed to be..." .......... .. the assessee". These
words have been replaced in the draft by the words "and
include such amount in the total income of the resident".
This verbal change has been made for the sake of unifor-
mity, and for emphasising the true construction of the sec-
tion as explained above. Notes to clause 96. The existing section 44D "relating toitransfer of assets
to non-residents is considerably involved in its expression.
It is difficult to understand the section ias a whole and its
grammatical structure without some effort.' The section
has been slightly recast en thefllines of section
412 of the U.K. Act.' The importantpioints of difference
between the existing section and the draft clause are ex-
plained below :-- sequence whereof, either alone or in conjuction with asso-
ciated operations, any income ......... becomes payable" ciated operations occurs only in the beginning of the sec-
tion, that is,. the portion refenring to ','a; transfer whereby
certain income arises. This .1-qeferencegis.-not repeated in
the subsequent portion deali wih qcguisition of rights-
by the transfer. In other ' A ords, the rights giving the-_
power to enjoy' certain: income must, at present, ﬂow from

(2) The existing section 44D(1) sags that a transfer'

. .'.Fo'r--a criticism of 3.1412 of the U. Act coimsponding to s; '4.4D of
our Act, s_cg_: p. gr 1-, am. 1029(5) of the _, :1 of thci Royal 'Commission on.
thcf"_l:axation of ts and.Incomc"(Fi_ , Rcpoxjt). E, i 1 . - ' - ' U. K. lncométax Act, 1952. Cf._' I K. F" ' e1Act, 384 the transfer itself. Under the clause as drafted, however,
these rights might ﬂow either from the transfer or from
its associated operations. (4) The words "m consequence of whic " occurring
for the second time in the existing section 44D(1) have
been omitted in the draft. These words related to "rights
.......... ..in consequence of which he _has.........power to
enjoy". It seems sufficient to have the words "by virtue
of" in this context. '

(5) Under the existing section 44D(1) , the income to
be taxed as the income of the resident is "that income",
that is, the income earlier referred to as arising from the
transfer to a non-resident, which the resident has power
to enjoy. Thus, two ingredients are required for taxing
the income at present: (i) the income must arise from the
transfer, and (ii) -it must be income which the resident has
power to enjoy. The draft clause, however, makes an im-'
portant departure here. All that is required in order to
tax an income is that (other conditions being satisﬁed),
it must be income which the resident has power to enjoy.
Under the draft it is not necessary that the taxable i ' me
should coincide with the income arising to a nonire (dent
from the transfer. Thus the power to enjoy must arise
from the transfer, but the words "power to enjoy ésuch
gtcome" have been replaced by "any income of a noti-resi- ent". '

(6) The existing section 44D(2) suffers from on) im-
portant ﬂaw, in that it does not state how the'sum re rred
to therein is to arise. The section says: "Where any rson
receives or is entitled to receive ....... ..any sum pa by
way of loan etc ....... ..such income shall ....... ..be deemed
to be the income" of the resident. One would hawe ex-
pected the section to say, like sub-section (1), "when any
person by means of any tra er .......... ..receives any" um" tal sum" which has _ n.s+(i-ately defined in dr sub- _. clause (6). I 385 Notes to clause, 97. A

_ Existing sections 'i4E and.44F have been combined in
this clause, and certain important changes of substance
have been made as follows:--- '

(1) Existing section 44E(l) applies where the owner
of the securities, having agreed to sell or transfer the
securities, "by the same or any collatoral agreement" tematic; see draft sub-clause (4) which mentions sub-
section (1) speciﬁcally. . (3) Existing section 44F, operative part, deals with the

cases where a person transfers securities before the dec- '

laration of the dividend, thus' shifting the right to receive
the dividend to another person. The operative part of this
section has been incorporated- in draft sub-clause (3). An
important departure from the existing section has, how-'
ever, been made; the existin' section provides for appor-
tionment, vide sub-section (2 , latter "half read with sub-
section (3). Under it, only the inconmelattributable to the
period upto the transfer is deemed to The the income of the
transferor. Under the draft, however', the income for the
full year will be deemed to be the income of the trans-
feror, vide sub-clause (3), lat line. - Since the rovision
is intended to stop avoidance, it should ;go the ful way. ance is "more than 10 per t of t amount of income-
tax" for the year. This requkement as been omitted in
the draft, in order to make the provision against avoidance
more stringent. (4) While the operative "portion of section 44F thus
ﬁnds a place in the draft, the machin¢"ry,provisions in sub-
sections (4), (5) and (6) of thatsection have been omit-
ted. The notice under section 44F(1)swill now be covered
by draft sub-clause (7). '

Apart from these important cha s, the other cha es
are of very minor nature and n *n_o_ comments. e
existing section 44D(7)(c) relatinghtgidzmdends deemed to

have been distributed to a pe , n omitted in._v_iew
of the form in which section,_23A ,_ its mend- Existing section 44F(2) a' plies 9%?' where-the avoid- ' : 1y directs the exemption to be treated as a case of .1'

Though section 16(1) says that "in computi the
total income" the exempted incomes are to be inclu ed in-
the total income, and though section 56 would apply sec-
tion 16 for super-tax. also, still. section 16 has to b con-
ﬁned to cases dealt within section 17(3) . The draft, ere-
fore, treats such exemptions as exclusions from total in-
come. Drafting changes have, wherever necessary, been
made to carry out this scheme. '

[So far as the sections expressly referred to in ;exist-
ing section 17(3) are concerned, they have to be treated
as cases of rebatem] 2 ~ 31

' Soc 'note: to draft elude I04.'
E

 i 389 Clause 104

The words "proﬁts and gains" have been replaced by
the term "income" which is more precise. The provision
is, obviously, applicable to all income and not only income
from business. Other changes are consequential" on this-
change and on the scheme adopted in the draft to treat.
exemptions from super-tax as exclusions from total in-
come. Notes to clause 105. The verbal changes made are consequential on the
scheme adopted in the draft to treat exemptions from.
super-tax as exclusions from total income'. Notes to clause 106. This clause does not need any comments, since the
changes are only verbal and consequential. Notes to clause 107. The changes are verbal and consequential. Notes to clause 108. General.----Existing section 56A, s'u'b-section (1), item, (ii) says that one of the conditions for iavailability of the
exemption under the section is that the income of the In-
dian company (which pays the dividend) "would have
been exempt under the operation of section 15C if the ro-
visions of that section had been applicable thereto". t is.
not clear from these words how much of section 15C is
to be read into section 56A. In the inierest of clarity, it
seems desirable to inco_rporate,,in section '56A itself, what-
ever conditions are to be borrowed from section 15C. The question, therefore, that arises next is, what part.
of section 15C should be repeated in section 56A? Section
15C requires the following conditions to be fulﬁlled :-- dertalzing to which the section applies (sub-sec-
tion 1) ). ' 2. The profits should not exceed 6 per cent per annum: 3. The undertaking must not be formed by the split-
ing up or reconstruction of a business already in.
existence (sub-section (2), item (i) ). 4. The undertaking must not be formed by the trans- fer of a building etc. used in {business carried on
ulzeifore the 1st April, 1948 (sub-section (2), item
' i_). ' , l

, 4
' Soc notes to clause 104.. n
", -390 5. The undertaking must begin to manufacture? arti-
cles in India within 13 years from the 1st April,
1948 or extended period when allowed by the Cen-
tral Government (sub-section (2). item (ii)). 6. The undertaking must employ a certain number of
workers (sub-section (2), item (iii) ). . 7. The exemption must not have been withdrawn by
the Central Government (sub-section (2), item (iii) Proviso). 8. The exemption is applicable only to the assessment
for the previous year in which manufacture com-
menced and for the four immediately succeeding
assessment years (sub-section (6) ). Taking these conditions one by one, it seems that con- -dition No. 1, is applicable for section 56A only to the ex-
tent to which it is introductory, as intended to draw atten-
tion to S. 15C(2). (Section 56A does not require that only
dividends attributable to proﬁts derived from a particular
undertaking should be exempt.) Condition No. 2 cannot be
applied for S. 56A, as the intention of section 56A is to
confer an exemption in addition to that enjoyed by are-
holders under section 15C(4).' Condition No. 3 is _ppli-
cable for section 56A, but since section 56A, sub-section
(1), item (ii) speaks of "the Indian Company", the condi-
tion has to be translated in terms of the Indian Company.
Condition No. 4 is applicable, but the mention of the 1st
April 1948 is irrelevant for the purpose of section; 56A,
which seeks to givea permanent exemption. Condition No.-
'5, being of a temporary nature. cannot be applied for
section 56A. Condition No. 6 is applicable. Regarding. con- -dition No. 7, the intention probably seems to be. t dis-
regard any such withdrawal of exemption and to pply
section 56A to all companies otherwise governed b the
applicable part of section 15Q even if in a particula case
the exemption under section. 15C has been withd awn.
Condition No. 8, being of a temporary nature, can t be
applied to section 56A, which does not conﬁne the exemp-
'tion to a particular period. - ' ' i

In the draft, therefore, the ingredients of section} 15C
have been embodied only to ..the extent indicated. in the
discussion above. As already stated, the applicable conditions of section
'l5C(2) have, in the draft, been treated as condition ' to
be fulﬁ1l__ed by the Indian Company and not by its %Ar(;1l.1S-
trial undertaking, .Consequential changes have. been a ade
in language. ' . Suli-clause (_1)----Item (i)----The cumbersome ; litst of
items has been removed to a.separate sub-clause, éthus
simplifying the language of section 56A(1)(i). A

Item (ii)--The géneral at the beginning ibove
may be persued. " ' ' " ' ' ' I 391.
'Sub-clause (2)--does not need any-_ comments. Sub-clause (3)--The commodities in question have-
béen referred as "items"--a wolrd use-d'in the existing sec--
tion 56A(2) at the end. No other comments are needed. Notes to clause 109. No detailed comments are needed. Notes to clause 110. Strictly speaking this exemption should in the case of'
supertax be treated as an exclusion from total income,-
but in view of section 17(3) it had to be treated as a
case of rebate'. ~ »

Notes to clause 111. This clause states the rule in existing section 14(2) »
(aa) as read with the Proviso. The exemption has, for purposes 'of super-tax, to be
treated as a case of rebate [ S. 17(3) ], though similar ex---
emptions have been treated. for super-tax, as exclusions.
from total income'. '

Notes to clause 11?. The clause does not need any detailed comments.'The
words "in relation to" will indicate tliast the substance of'
the relief is the same, both in income-ﬂax and in super-tax- Notes to ciause 113.: ' See draft clause :18. The lengthy expression "a company whose business -consists .......... ..in the dealing in or holding of investments
....... .." has been replaced by "investment company'? (de-
fined separately)', which has simpliﬁed the draft for Ex-
planation 2, Clause (i) also. The changes made by the Finance Act, 1958, have been - given effect to. S. 23A, in effect, taxes undistributed proﬁts and is thus
.aimed at a maximum distribution of proﬁts. It is diﬂicult
to sustain, side by side with this section, the provision
which has been included in recent, Finance Acts for tax-
ing excessive distribution of proﬁts. The provision°in the Finance Act aims at encouraging the minimum distribu-
tion of proﬁts and goes ill with section 23A which encour-
ages the maximum distribution. '

Even the Finance (No. 2) Act 1957, First Schedule,
paragraph D, second Proviso, clause (c), though it does not
directly tax an excessive distribution, is subject to this cri-
ticism; because on that part of the dividends which ex-
ceeds 10 per cent of' the paid up capital, there is an in- -direct tax expressed as a reduction of the rebate otherwise
admissible. This indirect tax goes on increasing with the
percentage of the dividend in relation to the capital.: The
higher the dividend, the lesser the rebate and, therefore.
the higher the tax. In other words, while the Finance Act provision acts
.as an incentive to smaller distribution, S. 23A acts as an
incentive to higher distribution of proﬁts. It would be
desirable to drop the system of taxing excessive distribu-
'tion of proﬁts introduced' in recent Finance Acts, at? least
in relation to companies to which section 23A applies. Notes to clause 114. The changes made are verbal and consequential. on

"the shorter expressions "distributable income" and E "in-
'vestment company" adopted in the draft for S. 23(1) ). Notes to clause 115. No detailed comments are needed. Notes to clause 116. The existing provision has been split up into ' sub-
<c1auses (a) and (b) for simplicity. Notes to clause 117. Sub-clause (1).---In paragraglei (b) the negative words" _ When using the egxpressiohd"tax", the words "'inc' ding
super-tax" have bee 'oniit§e§%, 'las thedeﬁnition of , in

the draft, includes s , r-tax. ; , 395 Sub-clause (1)--does not need any detailed comments. Sub-clause (2)--The openin portion of existing section
17 , sub-section (1), 1st Proviso, as been simpliﬁed by stat-
ing directly the date 30th June, and omitting the reference
to the assessment Year ending on 31st March, 1952, which
has become obsolete. Sub-clauses (3) & (4)---It has been made clear that any
option exercised under the present Act will continue to
have effect for the purposes of the new Act also. Conse-
quential changes have been made. Notes to clause 125. The substance of existing section 17(6) has been in-
corporated in this clause. The process of calculating tax has been split up in two
sub-clauses, for simplicity. The existing words in S. 17 (6)(ii) , "on the whole ....... ..
income-tax equal to the amount which bears to the income-
tax" etc. have, in the draft, been replaced by a mathe-
matical formula, to make the provision easy, to understand. It is presumed that, in calculating the income-tax on
the amount of capital gains, the total income is to be re-
duced for purposes of rate also. Hence, when explainin
the symbol Y, the words "had the total income so reduce
been his total income" have been added. The proviso to section 17(6)(ii) has in the draft been
split up into two clauses. ' V
Clause (i) states the minimum amount that can be
taxed. A

Clause (ii) embodies the rule relating to the maximum
tax to be charged. Where the capitalgains do not exceed
ﬁve thousand rupees, the tax will obviously be zero when
this clause is applied (see the words "if any"), and it be- comes unnecessary to deal speciﬁcally with such a case, as

has been done in the existing section. Suggestion--It would be logical if a provision is made
in the Act to the effect that capital gains are completely
excluded from the total income for t e» {purpose of super-
tax. This would simplify the; form of t e provision con-
tained in existing section 17 , sub-section: (6) and (7). Notes to clause 126. Section 17(7) , even after its amendment by the Finance
(No. 3) Act, 1956, refers to super-tax dnly and is not easy
to understand. - The draft seeks to state the position clearly. The re-
duction of the total income bythe amount of capital gains
is presumably eﬂective for de ,' V the rate also, as
is shown by thewords "calcul , on i Atal income" even
'in the existing section. This ' been , ' ed more clearly
in the draft in sub-clause (b). ~

26-! Law Com./58. CHAPTER XIII

INCOME-TAX AUTHORITIES

Notes to clause 127. No comments are needed. ~ Notes to clause 128. General--Existing section 5 is very lengthy and does
not deal systematically with the various matters relating
to Income-tax authorities. The section has, in the draft,
been split up into a number of clauses and the clauses
have been so arranged that each topic' is dealt with sepa- 'rately in the following order :- Clause 128.--The scheme adopted is to deal in separate
sub-clauses with appointments by the Central Government,
appointments by the Commissioner and appointments of
ministerial staff by Income-tax authorities. Under existing section 5(3) , latter part, _the appoint-
ment to class II Income-tax Officers and Inspectors'of In-
come-tax is made by the Commissioner, but the number
is to be sanctioned by the Central Government. This is the
statutory provision; but in administrative ractice the
sanction of all these posts can be made by t e Commis-
sioner. The language has, therefore, been altered to com-
form to administrative practice, vide sub-clause (2). ; Notes to clause 129. Provisions relating to control of Income-tax authorities
have been brought together in this clause. Sub-clause (1)--needs no comments. Sub-clauses (2) and (3)--The expression existing in sec-
tion 5(7), "For the purposes of this Act" appears unneces-
sary and has been omitted. Sub-clause (4)--It has been made clear that an Inspec-
tor of Income-tax is subor ' te not only to the aut ority
under whom he is appointed; o work but also to any; supe-
rior authority. hi 1 . 397; The Explanation is new and is intended to conform to
the administrative set-up of the Directorate, under which
the Deputy Director is an Assistant Commissioner and the
Assistant Director is an I.T.O.

Notes to clause 130. Provisions concerning instructions to subordinate au-
thorities have been brought together in this clause. Since
such instructions sometimes affect the public as a whole, it
has been provided that instructions of a general nature
should be published. »

Sub-clause (2) embodies the existing provisions" in sec-
tion 5, sub-section (7B) earlier part, but it is for considera-
tion whether this provision introduced in 1953 should be re-
tained. ' 4 Notes to clause 131. General--1¥ll provisions regarding the jurisdiction of
Income-tax authorities have been brought together in this
section. The only changes that need comments are the fol-
lowing :-- Now, so far as the reference to sub-section (2) is con-
cerned, it is to be construed as a reference, not to the
opening line of section 5(2) , but to the second sentence
beginning with. The mere appointment of . persois up a post is not rele-
vant; what is important is, ' e allattqaitof functions,»

398'
This portion of section 5(2) has, in the draft, been em- bodied insub-clause (2), and therefore draft sub-clause (7)
makes a reference to draft sub-clause (2). A

So far as the reference to section 5(3) is concerned, it
appears to be inappropriate, because that sub-section does
not deal with allotment of functions but only with the ap-
pointment. Hence that reference has been omitted. Existing section 5(4) , latter part, and section 5(5) , ear-
lier part, also deal with allotment of functions and, there-
fore, the corresponding sub-clauses (3) and (4) have also
been referred to in the draft sub-clause under discussion. The second part of the draft sub-clause is new. and
makes a provision which is 'obviously desirable. _E:¢_isting section 5 , sub-section (7A) main para, latter part, may be
compared. Sub-clause (8)--This is intended to make it clear that
where the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner performs the
functions of the Income-tax Oﬂicer, provisions requiring
his sanction etc. cease to have any effect. The position re-
garding appeals has also been stated in clear terms. The
existing provision in section 5(5) , latter half, concluding
portion, enacts that references to the Income-tax Ofﬁcerr and
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall be deemed to
be references to the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner and
the Commissioner respectively. That has been preserved
in draft sub-clause (5); but draft sub-clause (8) attempts
merely an application of that principle for certain impor-
tant matters. Notes to clause 132. Sub-clause (1)----The words "also subordinate to shim" ever are also included thereil. The result is that the transferee Income-tax Oﬁicer
would be in a position to continue pending proceedings
and also to institute fresh proceedings. This aspect of the Explanation, namely, that 'it
amounts to a transfer of proceedings' for past assessment
years also and that its inclusive part applies to proceedings
for any assessment year whether past or future,_ has in
the draft been brought out by suitable amendments
(thou)gh the existing provision is clear enough on this
point . Incidentally, it will be noticed that the deﬁnition of
"case" contained in the Explanation under discussion is
conﬁned to section 5(7A) . Where the zwhole-sale transfer
gf cases, pagt ans. future, (caf) aln assesserjté is to be doge ug- er section , su section , , atter pa . , or section , su -
section (5) latter part, that ﬁan be done, not by calling
it a transfer of cases but by reatingiit as a transfer of
jurisdiction in respect of "persons". Itmay be noted here
that Section 5 , sub-section (5), lattei , t, 'has, in the
draft. been amended so as to add a r erence to speciﬁed
person. 1 Bidi Supply Ca. V. Union of India (1956), S.C.R. 267-AIR. 1956, S. C. 479. 484 (x956).29 I-T-R- 717- y . ' Pnnu Lal Biry'Raj V. Union qf Iqdiu (1951), ,3: I.T.R. 565-A._I.R.
1957, 5-0. 397. 4u- ' f , E y . < 400 Notes to clause 133. No comments are needed. Notes to clause 134. This clause is new. Some doubt has been felt as to
the Income-tax authority which is entitled to prosecute
or defend an appeal in the High Court etc. whenever the
assessee's case is transferred from one authority to an-
other. For example, when one Commissioner ﬁles an appeal,
and the case of the assessee is transferred to the jurisdic-
tion of another Commissioner, the question arises whe-
ther the transferee Commissioner can continue the ap-
peal. Provision has, therefore been made to make it clear
that the authority for the time being seized of the case
would be the person competent to initiate or continue
such proceedings. For the sake of simplicity the cases of Commissioner
and of the Income-tax Officer have been dealt with in
separate sub-clauses. The principle underlying the provision is not new.
Nor is it conﬁned to the particular provisions referred to
in the draft clauses; it should be applicable for all provi-
sions of the Act. But, since difficulties have been felt only
in regard to certain provisions, the draft clause is conﬁn-
ed to these provisions. The provisions of existing section
5 , sub-section (7C) cover cases where a proceeding is
peéiding before an Income-tax authority who is transfer-
re . Notes to clause 135. General--This clause corresponds to section 64 of the
existing Act. The question whether the section confers a
right on the assessees has come up beforethe courts more
than once and has now been settled once for all by the Su- preme Court'. The discussion in the case just cited makes. it clear that it is too late in the day to say that there is no
right to be assessed by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer of a parti-
cular area. The earlier decision of the Supreme Court',
holding that the beneﬁt conferred on the assessee by sub-
sections (1) and (2) of the section 64 is to be regarded as
a right, has been reinforced by the later decision' refer-
red to above. The marginal note of the section "place of assess-
ment" is, however, slightly misleading, because the section
does not deal with the place where the assessment is actu-
ally made but with the Income-tax Oﬂicer having uris-
diction. The marginal note, has. therefore. been _al ered
accordingly. ' Pannalal Biry' Raj V. Union of India A.l. R. 1957, S. C. 397, 4,06,
Paras. 20-22;(xg57) 3: I.T.R.. 565. . ' Bids' Supply C . V. Umbnhgflndia (I958) S. C. R. 267, 276; A. I. R.. 1956,
S. C. 4.79, 4.88; (1956) 29 I. T. R. 717. _ ' 5 3 401 Sub-clause (1)---does not need any comments. Sub-clause (2)~----does not need any comments. _ Sttb-clause (3)---In the proviso, the words "represent-
ing his views'? have been replaced by "being heard in res- pect of the question" which are more appropriate; it has'

been also made clear that the opportunity to be afforded to
the assessee should be "reasonable". The second and third provisos to existing section
6i4(3) have, for simplicity, been dealt with in separate sub-
c auses. Sub-clause (4)----Slight verbal changes have been made
to secure simplicity and clarity. - Sub-clause (5)----does not need any comments. Sub-clause (6)--embodies existing section 64(4) , which
is obviously intended to make it clear that even where
the assessee resides or carries on business within the juris-
diction of another Income-tax Oﬁicer, an Income-tax Offi-
cer may exercise powers in' respect of income of such as-
sessee accruing or arising within his jurisdiction. Sub-clause (7)--The only change made is the omis-
sion of words that were intended to emphasise the retros-
pective operation of the provision. Notes to clause 136. Existing section 37 has, in the draft, been split up
into two. Portions relating to powers of a court that
can be exercised by the authorities mentioned in the sec-
tion have been dealt with in this clause, while powers of
search and seizure have been dealt with in the next
clause. Sub-clause (1)---does not need any comments. Sub-clause (2)----is new and has been added to indicate
the procedure to be followed in exercising the powers. Sub-clause (3)--needs no comments. Sub-clause (4)--is new. The existing section does ,

not contain a provision entitling a person producing a
document to apply for return of the same. To make the
matter clear, this sub-clause has been added. Compare Order 13, Rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure . It may be noted that section 37(3) , proviso (b) does
not in so many words deal with the return of documents.
Moreover, it is conﬁned to Income-tax Officers. _The sub- clause under discussion will cover 11 cases, including do- '
cuments retained by an Inuibme-tax.'Oﬂicer. . . . Notes to clause 137. Item (ii).--The words "have them removed to his
office" have been added to deal with cases where the books
are voluminous and the Income-tax Officer cannot exa-
mine them in the premises. Item (iii).--The words "cause to be made" have
been added to make it clear that the Income-tax Otﬁcer
can entrust to an Inspector or ministerial staff the work
of taking copies or extracts from the books and documents
in question. Item (iv).----The existing provision relates to a note
or an inventory of any 'other' articles or things found in
the course of search; this would exclude books and docu-
ments which are referred to in the earlier item. Since,
however, occasion may arise for making a note of a book
or document (without actually seizing it), the word
"other" has been omitted in the draft. '

Notes to clause 138. Sub-clauses (1) and (2)--Existing section 38 (1) has
bleen divided into two sub-clauses, to make the provisions
c ear. What the "return" relates to is only names and ad-
dresses; Cf. existing S. 38(1) .& (2). That has been made
clear in the draft. In the case of partners, however, infor-
mation regarding their shares may be useful. and that
has been added in the draft. The expression "Assistant Commissioner" has been
substituted by "Appellate Assistant Commissioner or Ins-
pecting Assistant Commissioner", since these are the ex-
pressions used in the Act. In sub-clause (2), instead of "adult male member". the . word "members" has been substituted for brevity. Notes to clause 139. - It has been made clear that the person authorised for
the purpose of this section should be subordinate to 'the
officer giving the authority. Private persons should not
be authorised under this section. Notes to clause 140. The latter part of section 5 , sub-section _(7B) has been
reproduced here. Presumably, the "enquiries" referred to
here are the enquiries under sections 37 , 38 , 39 etc.

Notes to clause 141. Sub--clause (1)--The existing section provides that the
court shall not be entitled to require "any public servant" Sub-clause (2).--Existing section 54(2) imposes a pen-
alty on a public servant making a disclosure of the parti-
culars treated as conﬁdential. What the sub-section achie- ves is------ (i) making such disclosure an offence, and (ii) imposing penalty for the offence. The earlier part of the sub-section really creates the
offence, and has been reproduced in this sub-clause. The
"penalty portion has been transferred to the Chapter on
"Offences and prosecutions". V - Section 54(5) has also been transferred to the Chapter
.on "Oﬂences and prosecutions". Sub-clause (3)--The various paragraphs of this sub-
clause embody existing provisions and do not need any -comments, except the following :- ment assessment'. This paragraph in question has, there-
fore, been added to authorise such d'Bclosure. Suitable

' EXn.peIr.0rR\.7. 1942) 10 'IiT.lK. 429;"I.I.R. 1942 Bombay 767;
 Jullundur V. Thenstate (xg5o)'?;18 I. T. 7- $88, A.l.R."rg5o East
3 Cf. Dhakexhwari Comm Mill: V. C. I. (I954) ugh '1'. R. 775 S. C. ' 4 404 words have been used in order to ensure that the assessee-
to whom any information is disclosed under this paragraph
is not thereby enabled to trace the other assessees whose
ﬁgures are disclosed in such information, '

Paragraph (f).----The privilege conferred by section 54- is sometimes abused by the assessee by claiming it against
courts in which proceedings are pending for or against
him. For example, when the assessee's accounts contain
an entry adverse to his case' in a civil suit, the assessee of-
ten refuses to produce the accounts before the court
and takes shelter under this section, saying that the ac-
counts are lying with the Income-tax Department. This.
cannot be supported by any notions of justice or fairness-
Paragraph (f) has, therefore, been added to empower the
court to enforce production of the accounts in such cases. Registered documents of which copies can be obtain-
ed under the Registration Act , or certain documents pre-
pared under the Companies Act (like balance sheet, au--
dit report, etc.) have also been mentioned in this para. Such
documents need not be treated as conﬁdential, since they
are virtually public documents. Paragraph (j)--The word "lawyer" has been replac-
ed by the words "legal practitioner" which are more ap--
propriate. Paragraph (k).--Existing section 54(3) (h) is obvious-
ly meant for cases where an officer of the Income-tax De-»
partment, detecting an unstamped document, desires to
communicate that fact to the stamp authorities. His po-
wer to "impound" the document "occasions" the further
transmission of the document to the Collector under the Stamp Act . The "public servant" referred to in the provi-
sion is, therefore, the Income-tax authority impounding
and transmitting document, not the stamp authority receiv-
ing it. (The stamp authority receiving the document, does
not "disclose" any document.) It is the Income-tax au---
thority which makes this disclosure subsequent to the
impounding of the document. Slight verbal changes have
been made to bring out this intention,

Paragraph (l)--Existing section 54(3) (i) refers to offi-
cers of the United Kingdom or any part of His Majesty's

Dominion. But as section 49A authorises an agreement for e

a double taxation iielief with any country outside', India,
the language of this provision has been brought into con-
formity with that position. Paragraph (n).--This is new and is intended to autho-
rise the disclosure of information required in connection
with levy or realization of other central taxes, for exam-
ple, estate duty, wealth tax, expenditure _tax etc. Assis-
tance has been taken, in drafting the provision, from exist-
ing section 54(3) (j) . a V 405 To. a_certain extent, this added provision might over~
lap existing section 54(3) (k) , dealing with customs and

excise duties. But the language of the latter provision is
slightly different in two respects : example, conﬁscation of goods) and is not conﬁned to levy'
or realization of tax. For these reasons, clause (k) has been retained in the
draft and reproduced in paragraph (0). Paragraph (o).%:'>ee notes above under paragraph (n)..
Sub--clause (4).---does not need any comments. Existing section 54(5) has, as already stated, been
transferred to the Chapter on "Prosecutions". Sub--clause (5).--See notes under sub-clause (1)
above. Notes to clause 142. This is new and is intended to make it clear that: There are several provisions in the Act, such as sections 40 , 41 , 42 etc., which make one person
assessable in respect of the income of another.
This lacuna has been removed by the addition of
suitable words ; (iii) the notice under existing section 22(1) usually
provides that the return should be furnished be-
fore the expiry of 65 days from the date oftpubli-
cation of the notice. This leaves the date indeﬁnite
until the date of publication of the notice? is as-
certained. It has'been provided, therefore, in the
draft, that the return should be furnished on or
before the 30th day' of June; (iv) a proviso has been added to the effect that a person
who has already submitted a return in response
to an individual notice under sub-section (2) need
not furnish a return under sub-section ( 1) ; (v) the existing requirement that the return should
be a return of "total income" and "total eworld
income" etc., has been replaced by the . imple
requirement»? that it should be a return of come
in the prescribed form.' . T . i 407 Incidentally, it is suggested that it would be appro--
priate to prescribe a separatefarm of return in the case of
persons who have incurred loses in business which they
would be entitled to 'carry forward. Paragraph (b) of the sub-clause makes it clear that
where a return is sent to the wrong Income-tax Officer,
he should forward it to the Income-tax Oﬂicer having.
jurisdiction. , - Sub-clause (2).----~T-he existing section 22 (2) says that-
the notice will require the assessee to furnish the return
"within such period, not being' less than 30 days, as may
be speciﬁed in the notice". The words "not being less than" losses. Sub-clause (4).--This dose not require any comments. Some difficulty has been caused by existing 22 (3) in
cases where the assessee ﬁles a return' on the last day of'
the period within which the assessment could be complet-
ed. It has been held' that if the department takes no~
action at all for the issue of a notice under section 22 , and
allows time to pass and permits the' assessee to make a
voluntary return under section 22(3) , the income of the
assessee must be assessed as laid down.in section 23 and its
is not open to the department to proceed under section 34 .-
This would lead to the complication that even if the return
of income under. section 22(3) is ﬁled cm the last day on
which the assessment could be completed, the department" 1 Rauchlwd D4: v.c.1. 1'. (1954) 26 twin. .o5'§ngm.).
3 '1 " , Slight verbal additions have been made in the opening
portion of Sub-sections (1) and (2) to bring out the fact that

these three situations are being dealt with separately by the
section. Clause 147, Sub-clause (1)---Apart from verbal additions
already referred to, the only change made is the addition
of a reference to "loss" of the assessee so that the assess-
ment would determine the amount of loss which can be
carried forward under existing section 24(2) read with
existing section 22 (2A) . It has also been made clear that

if any sum is to be refunded, that should also be mentioned
in the assessment order. Sub-clause (2)--The only change made is the verbal
addition already referred to. < . Sub-clause (3)----An assessment under existing section
23(3) is made after a consideration of the material which
the Income-tax Oﬂicer has gathered. The draft sub-clause,
therefore, makes it clear that in addition to the evidence
produced in the case, the Income-tax Oﬁicer is also to take
into account such materials. The deﬁnition, given as a
separate clause, gives, some indication of the material
which the Income-tax Officer is competent to take into
account. . '

A x

I Dhalruwari Cotton Mill: Vs. 0.1.7'. (1954) 26 1. 1:; 1;. 375 (s_.'c.). _ 410 Apart from this change of importance, the other
changes are Ihinor and are on the same lines as those made
in sub-section (1). 1

Clause 148 : Sub-clause (1)----It has been made clear
that the "best judgment assessment" is to be made after
a consideration of the relevant material which the Income-
tax Officer has gathered. The deﬁnition, given as a separate
clause, will apply for this sub-clause also. '

The other verbal changes follow the lines on which
verbal changes have been made in sub-section (1) of exist-
ing section 23 . Sub--clause (2)--This is new, and is consequential on
the addition of a reference in sub-sections (3) and (4) of
existing section 23 to the relevant material gathered by
the Income-tax Officer. Clause 149.--See notes to the main clauses relating to
assessment',

Sub-section (5) of existing section 23 has been dealt
with in the Chapter relating to ﬁrms, in view of its sub-
ject matter. Sub-section (6) of existing section 23 deals with a step
consequential on assessment, and has been placed later in

this Chapter. Notes to clause 150. . Existing section 13 has been embodied here, -with the
changes explained below :-- under section 23(4) , which begins with the words "If any
person fails to make the return ....... ..". This has been made
clear in the draft. - The existing words "within one month from the service
of a notice .......... ..satisﬁes the Income-tax Oﬂicer" are mis-
leading; if construed literally, they would require that
the satisfaction of the Income-tax Oﬂicer himself must be
completed within one month. This is not, however, the
intention. It should suffice if the assessee applies Within
one month for cancellation of the assessment. The section
has been, therefore, slightly redrafted to make the inten-
tion clear. ; It has been held by the Nagpur High Court in a
recent case' that where an assessee is called upon by the
Income-tax Officer to produce accounts and fails to do so
because he does not in fact maintain any accounts, and the
assessee is consequently assessed under section 23 (4) , he
is not bound to make an application under section 27 for
reopening the assessment. He can raise the point again in
an appeal before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner
who is bound to entertain the point. No alteration in the-
law is required. Notes to clauses 152-159. General.----Existing section 34 , relating to the power to»
assess an income which has escaped amessment, has been
sought to be simpliﬁed in the draft clauses under discus--
sion on the following lines:--1 . (1) The substantive provision dealing with the power
itself, contained in section 34(1) clauses (a) and (b), has
been placed in the beginning; the requirement of notice
is placed next ; and the detailed provisions contained in the
various provisos, dealing with the time-limit for the exer-
cise of the power, have been put in separate clause. (2) Section 34(3) , relating to the period within which.
assessment should be completed, has been placed as a
separate draft clause, since it '5 not conﬁned in its ap li-
cation to an assessment under section 34 itself, but app 'es'
X) all orders of assessment or reassessment under the

ct. ~

(3) l3rovisions that have become obsolete,'such as sub-
sections (1A), (1B), (1C) and (ID), have been omitted.
Since the new Act will apply only to assessments made-
for assessment years subsequent to the commencement of
the Act, it is not necessary to repeat these sub--sections in

, . . ' ". Suganshand Kanha: a La! Ratlu, jab V. 01.1'. J dgm t dated
20-9-1957 in Mix. Cizil case No. 115 of] 55 (not yr? on
27-] Law Com.I58 , *5 

/ 412 the new Act. Any action that might have to be taken with
reference to prior years can be taken even after the com-
mencement of the new Act. Clause 152.--It has been made clear that the power
to make a reassessment is subject to the other provisions
of the various clauses. This has become necessary in view
of the fact that the time-limit, at present dealt with in the
provisos, has in the draft been dealt with in separate
clauses. Clause 153.--The short expression "income has escap-
ed. assessment" has been used in the preceding clause and
deﬁned here. Clause 154.--This does not need any comments, since
the only change made is the addition of the words "before
making the assessment .......... ..the Income-tax Officer shall'_'
serve a notice. This is purely consequential on the scheme
adopted in the draft to separate the various provisions at
present contained in sub-section (1). '

Clause 155. General.----The time-limit for the issue of a notice "under
existing section 34(1) is dealt with in this clause; An
attempt has been made to make the provision easier to
understand, by stating the various time-limits applicable
to the various situations separately. Thus, cases where no
time-limit is prescribed, are dealt with ﬁrst. The case
where the time-limit is eight years is dealt with next ; and
the residuary time-limit of four years, applicable :when
the rfase éalls under existing section 34 (1) (b) , is dealt with
at t e en . : ed, will all be assessment years later than 1939-40, as the
new Act will apply only for assessment years subsequent
to its commencement. It is, however, made clear, that for the purpose of
computing the accumulated total that has escaped assess-
ment, assessment years under the 1922 Act (i.e. the existing
Act) can also be taken into account. »

A Sub-clause (2).--The restriction contained in existing section 34(1) , 2nd Proviso, regarding the issue of notice
against the agent of a non-resident, would seem to apply to
a notice under clause (a) as well as clause (b) of section
34(1) . For this reason, draft sub-clause (1) begins with the
words "subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)" and
draft sub-clause (2) is framed so as to make it clear that
it applies to all notices under section 34(1) . Clause 156. Existing section 34(3) , 2nd Proviso, operates not only
in relation to the period of completion of assessment, but
also in relation to a time-limit for an, issue of notice under section 34(1) . This is clear from the' Words "nothing con-
tained in this section limiting the time within which any
action may be taken ............. .." appearing in the beginning
of the Proviso. The Proviso thus acts as an Exception not
only to section 34 (3) , main ipara, _but also to the time-
limit under section 34(1) . The latter aspect has been dealt
with here. : 1'

Clause 157. General.--The verbal changes are' consequential on the
breaking up of the section into various sub-clauses. Sub-clause (2).----Existing section 34(1) , 1st - Proviso,
clause (iii), says that a notice under clause (a) shall not be
issued for any year .......... ..unless .......... ..the Commissioner
is satisﬁed that it is a ﬁt casefor thef ue of such a notice.
Apparently, this would app?' even' here the notice is

 

issued within four years. Bu since hotice under. clause

I

i 414 (b) can be issued, within four years, without any such sanc-
tion, no harm would be caused if, in cases under. clause (a) also, this restriction is made to operate only where
the notice is issued after four years. The provision in
question has been altered accordingly. Other changes are verbal and consequential as above.
Clause 158. Sub--clause (1).----Does not need any comments. The
verbal changes are consequential as above. Sub-clause (2).--No change has been made in existing section 34 (2) . As to the omission of sub-sections (1A), (1B), (1C) and
(ID) of existing section 34 , see notes above under this
group of clauses under the head "Genera1".. Clause 159 : This is new. The time-limit for comple-
tion of assesssment is at present contained in section 34 itself, Since it is" being transferred in the draft to a sepa-
rate section, it seems desirable to have such a clause to
draw attention to the provision relating to time-limit. Notes to clause 160. General.--Existing section 34 (3) has, in the draft, 'been
split up into three sub-clauses. The main provision, impos-
ing the time-limit, has been dealt with in sub-clauses (1)
and (2), while the various exceptions have been dealt with
separately in sub--clause (3), for the sake of clarity. Sub-clause (1).--Paragraph (a) does not need any'com-
ments. The substitution of the words "assessment year?' for
'year' is meant to secure precision. Paragraph (b) is new and is intended to provide that
the time-limit in the case of a notice under existing section
28 (3) read with section 28 (1) (c) is four years counted

from the issue of the notice. It seems desirable that there" For the sake of clarity, these three things have, in the
draft, been split up'into separate sub-clauses. ' The second Proviso, which bars action _in respect of
orders passed more than one year before the comm nee-
ment of the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act, 939,
has been omitted, as obsolete. '

Sub--clause (1).--The various authorities that can amend
their orders have been dealt with separately in paragraphs, (a), (b) and(c) along with the nature of the orders that: can
be amended by each authority. , ~

Since the order under this section is essentially in§ the
nature of an amendment, the phrase "with a view to eti-
fying any mistake .......... ..the ........ .;..may amend" has een
used. Incidentally, this has enabled the use of the ort

expression "amendment" in subsequent sub-clauses, thus '

avoiding the lengthy expression "rectification of mistakes". Sub-section (2) of section 35 ,. relating to the rectifica-
tion of mistakes by the Appellate Tribunal, has been quit-
ted since the Tribunal is proposed to be abolished. Sub-clause (2).----The verbal changes are conseque tial
on the scheme adopted in the draft to break up section (1)
into various sub-clauses (See notes above under the ead
"General"). v

Sub-clause (3).-----Apart from verbal changes which are
consequential, the words "or otherwise increasing the lia-
bility of the assessee" have been added to make the ?pro-
vision comprehensive. Sub-clause (4).--This is negvsr. and embodies a pra'tice

.fol1owed even now, ami is also mecessary as an appe is
now provided. , : » . Sub-clause (5).--does not need any comments.
'Sub-clause (6).---does not need any comments. ,_ Sub-clause (7).--The verbal changes that have been
made are consequential. . Notes to clause 162. Gene'ral.----'For the sake of_ clarity, the various special
cases of rectiﬁcation, dealt with i._n exisggig section 35_(5) and
subsequent sub-sections, have been e odied separately in
this draft clause. The wording of existing section 35(5) etc. is not happy.
The words "shall be deemed _to bea rectiﬁcation," creating
an artiﬁcial ﬁction, have been replaced in the draft by
words conveying the substance---that' the Income-Tax
Oﬂicer has power to amend. " ment of excess proﬁts tax or business proﬁts tax under sec-.
tion 35(6) will be conﬁned to cases arising under the old
Act, that is to say, for assessment years prior to the enforce-
ment of the new Act. The reason.is,; that neither excess
proﬁts tax nor business proﬁt; tax is in force now, and it
is only for past assessment years that these taxes have any
relevancy. Similarly, the recomputation {Of the total income
of the share-holders consequential on the modiﬁcation of the
assessment of the company under section 23A, will neces-
sarily be in respect of assessment years prior to the new
Act. The reason is, that section 23A (as it stands in the pre-
sent Act as amended up--to-date and) as embodied in the
draft) does not have any relevancy on the assessment of
the total income of the share-holders. Any action under sec-
tion 35(7) will be conﬁned to past as _ ent years. On the
same reasoning, any action unlder sect -on 35(10) will neces-
sarily be related to the assessment years prior to the new
Act, since the recomputationjof tax (by reduction of the
rebate) under that sub-section: is applicable only in respect
of the assessment years 1948-49 to 1954-55. These sub-sec-
tions have, therefore, been omitted. Sub-clause (1).--The following dléafting changes may
be noticed :-- T

(1) Section 35(5) , as it stands at present, creates an
ambiguity, namely, whether the words "where .......... ..it is
found on the assessment or re-assessment of the ﬁrm" are
to be linked up with the words "under section 31 , section
33 " etc. The intention, obvio y, is 't the assessment or
re-assessment need not have een 3 under the speciﬁc

i i

418 . sections referred to in the sub-section. This has been made
clear in the draft, by separating the situations into para-
graphs (a) and (b) in this sub-clause; (ii) reduction or enhancement of income resulting from
an amendment under section 35 itself is not at present
covered by section 35(5) . This has now been added in the
draft ; (iii) as already explained in the notes under the clause'
corresponding to existing section 35(1) , action under sec-
tion 35 is essentially in the nature of an amendment. Fur-
ther, the extension of the provisions of section 35(1) to the
special cases dealt with in section 35(5) and subsequent
sub-sections is purely artiﬁcial, and it would be better if
the word "rectification" is not used in respect of these

special cases. Hence the word "amendment" has been used- in this and the subsequent sub-sections; (iv) the existing sub-section speaks of the period
"referred to" being "computed" in a certain manner. Sec-
tions 35(8), 35(9). etc., however, speak of the period "speci- fied" being "reckoned" from a certain date. For the sake. of uniformity, the expressions used in section 35(8) have,
in the draft, been used in all the sub-clause/s. Sub-clause (2).----This is new. The existing section is
silent on the question whether an order similar to that
under section 35(5) can be passed in the case of a member
of an association where the assessment of the association
itself is revised. It seems desirable to add such a provision,
and this sub-clause is intended to achieve that object. Since
the provision is new, a proviso has been added t-o save the
rule contained in existing section 14(2)(b) which enacts
that tax is not payable by an assessee on any amount on-
which the tax has already been paid by the association. Sub-clause (3).--The only change that requires explana-
tion is the omission of clause (b) of existing section 35(8) .
This clause is meant for a -casewhere a company is assessed
under section 23A and in consequence it becomes necessary
to compute or recompute the: total income of the share-
holder. As already explained. above, section 23A (as it
stands in the present Act as amended up-to-date and as
embodied in the draft) has no relevancy now on the income
of the shareholders. Clause (b) of section 35(8) has, there-
fore, been omitted. Other changes are consequential. Sub-clause (4).----Existing section 35(9) provides: that
where a company does not ay the tax on its proﬁts "within
three years after the ﬁnancial year in which the dividend
was declared", the Income-tax Oﬂicer may proceed to re-
compute the amount of tax deemed to have been paidby
the shareholders. This presupposes that the assessment of
the company has taken place and the company has failed
to pay the tax. There may, however, be cases where the

1 Clause 16!. e

4119 V

the assessment of the company itself is delayed. In such
cases, it would not be proper to insist that the company
should pay the tax within three years from the year in
which "the dividend was declared". It would seem desira-
ble to allow, in such cases, a period of at least one year
from the end of the ﬁnancial year in which the assessment
of the company is made. Necessary alteration has been made
in the draft sub-clause on this point. Other changes are
'verbal and consequential. Sub-clause (5).--This embodies existing section 35(11) introduced by the Finance Act, 1958. Sub--clause (6).'----This is new. Cases sometimes arise
when an assessee claims deduction for a bad debt in res-
'pect of a particular previous year, and the Income-tax Offi-
cer is of opinion that the deduction should have been
claimed for an earlier previous year. Under the existing
law, the assessee cannot obtain any deduction for such
earlier years. The draft sub-clause is intended to remove
"this hardship by conferring the necessary power on the
Income-tax Oﬁicer. Notes to clause 163. '3

This reproduces existing section 29 . The words "or
other person" have been omitted, since the deﬁnition of
"'assessee", even in the existing Act, covers all persons by
"whom any tax etc., is payable. Moreover, in cases where A
is liable to pay tax on the income of B, A will either be a
"representative assessee",' or other person who would fall

'-under the deﬁnition of assessee. Notes to clause 164. Existing section 24 (3) has been embodied here, since it
deals with the steps consequential on the assessment of
the income of assessee. Instead of the words "to have set
off" the words "to have carriedforward' and set off", have
'been substituted, for the sake-of precision. Notes to clause 165. Existing section 23 (6) has been placed here, since that
again deals with a step consequential on assessment. The existing words "wh'ene_V§r theulncome-tax Officer
makes a determination in accordance with the provisions

of sub-section (5)" have been replaced, by the words

"whenever a registered ﬁrm is assessed or an unregistered
ﬁrm IS assessed under section .......... ..",= since the existing

'words do notecorrectly describe the nature of the action

taken by the Income-tax Oﬂicer. In essence, the Income- tax Ofﬁcer makes an "assessment", as i; 'clear by the words

"the total income .......... ..shall be asse$ed" in section. 23
'Vida Chapter on Liability in spccialécases. Vi '. ' '

«4
'9 420 (5) (a) (ii) and by the words "in the case of an unregistered
ﬁrm, the Income-tax Oﬂicer may .......... ..proceed to assess
the total income" in section 23 (5) (b) . Notes to" clause 166. The various kinds of returns submitted in respect.
of salary, dividend etc., have been dealt with here in one
c ause. Sub-clause (1).-Existing section 20A, dealing with
the return to be submitted by a person paying any interest,
says that the return is to be furnished to "prescribed oﬂi--
cer". Rule 43A of the rules made under the Act provides: menced by the issue of notice, but the assessment
' has not been completed; (3) where proceedings for assessment have been com»

pleted, but the notice of. demand has not been

served, so that no "arrears" have come into being; '

and

(4) where assessment has already-b en made and the
notice of demand also served, ﬂu the actual rea1i-- sation, of the tax has not been"3 completed, so that
the amount of the tax is in "arrears". Sub-clause (1).--It has been made clear that the liabi-~

lity of the legal representative is to be arrived at "in the
like manner and to the same. extent? as the deceased..
Compare existing sections 40 (1) and 41(1) . Sub-clause (2).--This is mainly in ended to preserve
the continuity of the proceedings andgtp ensure that all
the possible situations referredfto in the' beginning of the'-
notes to this clause under the head "General" are covered.
by the combined operation of sub-clauses (1) and (2).. Sub--clause (3).--This is intended to remove any doubts.
as to whether a legal representative is or is not an assessee,
It has to be read with the draft deﬁnition of assessee and?
the notes thereto. Compare also the 1 ',words of existing'
section. 24B (2), "as if such e1:ecutor;: ........ ..were the-
assessee". ' 3

Q 422 Sub-clause (4)--is intended to apply, to lega1-re-
zpresentatives, certain useful provisions which havebeén
incorporated in the group of sections dealing with "re-
presentative assessees". Subeclause (5)--does not need any comments.
Sub-clause (6)--does not need any comments. Notes to clause 169. General.--The assessments under existing sections 40 ,
A41 and 42(1) are really "representative assessments" as
.they are styled under the South African Income-tax Act.
This will be clear from the following analysis :-- The persons under disability enumerated in the section
are, "minors, lunatics and idiots". In these cases, the
guardian etc., of the minor, or the manager or committee
of the lunatic or the idiot would have no ownership «in the
property or income. The income really belongs to the per»
sons under disability, and all that the sections provides
is a machinery for enforcing the liability of the incapa--
citated person. The tax is recoverable from the guardian etc.
in the like manner and to the like amount as it w c Id be
leviable upon the person under disability if of full a e and
in direct receipt of the income. This is a case where Income
received by the guardian etc., on behalf of the incapacitat-
.cd person is taxed in the hands of guardian etc., and can
therefore be treated as a representative assessment. (ii) Section 40 (2) , dealing with trustees or agents of
non-residents, also limits the liability of the trustee or
':agent by the words "in the like manner and to the same
amount" as the liability of the beneﬁciary if in direct
receipt of the income. Here again, the income which a
trustee etc. received on behalf of the beneﬁciary is taxed in
the hands of a trustee etc. It is therefore a representative
assessment. (iii) Secion 41 relates to income received on behalf of
:a beneﬁciary by the Court of wards, Administrator-General,
the Official Trustee, trustee appointed under a deed of
trust etc. The section makes these persons liable: to be
assessed in respect of income received by them "on ?behalf
of" the beneﬁciary and "in the like manner and ?to the
same amount" as the beneficiary. (There are two provisos
"which are not relevant for the purposes of the present dis- -cussion). The assessment is thus a representative one. (iv) Section 42 relates to the agent of a non-resident

and empowers the department to treat the agent as the'

.assessee in respect of tax leviable on certain income,of the
non-resident deemed to arise in India. The income does not
"belong to the agent, but, for facilitating the collection of
tax he is made liable and "is (deemed to be the assessee
;for all the purposes" 'of the Act.' He is thus a representative
.assessee. - '

l 423 It would, therefore, contribute to clarity if all these: General Scheme of sections relating to representative
assessees. The group of sections begins with deﬁnitions, followed
by the substantive provisions deﬁning the liability of
the representative. Special provisions applicable only to
special classes of representative assessees are placed at the
end. Assistant has been taken from the South African. Income-tax Act in framing these provisions. The following
sections of that Act have been drawn upon :-- The words " .......... ..sha1l .......... ..be deemed to be such
agent" have been replaced in the draft by the words
"agent .......... ..includes .......... ..". A deﬁnition in the form of

enumeration having been adopted in the draft, the form had
to be changed, '

Existing section 43 , Explanation, has been embodied in
the Explanation to draft sub-clause, with the addition
of the words "or relinquishment" on the lines bf existing
section 12B. The reference to the date 28th day of February,
1947, has been omitted as unnecessary, since the new Act
will apply only prospectively, that is, for assessment years
subsequent to the commencement of the new Act. Section 43 , 1st proviso, has been embodied in the pro-
viso to the draft sub-clause. An attempt has been made to
make the language less involved, by Toning the proviso
with a reference to the "broker", instea of beginning with
the word "transactions" as the existing proviso does. Sub-clause (2).--Existing section 43 , 2nd Proviso, has
been embodied here, with the addition of the words "to
be treated as such" at the end in order to make the pro-
vision more precise. Notes to clause 174

The ﬁrst proviso to section 41(1) has been split up into
paragraphs, for the sake of clarity. The position in respect
of income-tax has been stated separately from the position
regarding super-tax, since .the provision that the tax shall
be levied at the maximum rate does not: apply to super-tax,
see existing section 58(1) . '

[The latter part of the Proviso, of course, must be
taken as applying to superbtax also, and this has been
made clear in the draft, vide sub-clause (b).] '

The latter part of the Proviso _is, obviously, an excep- tion to the earlier part of the
para (part) of the sub-section. _
earlier part of the proviso ' not , p'

28-! Law Com. 58 428 also does not apply. The draft makes this clear by treat-
ing the latter part as an item--item (i) in the draft--falling
under the earlier part, i.e. undér sub-clause (a) of the draft. One impgrtant change has been made in the substance
of the existing provision. Section 41(1) , lst Proviso, (dealing
with the case where the income is not speciﬁcally receiva-
ble for one person or where the shares are unknown) pro-
vides that income-tax shall be chargeable- (i) where the beneﬁciaries have no other personal
income, and none of them is an artiﬁcial judicial
person, then at the rate applicable to an associa-
tion; (ii) in other cases, at the maximum rate. This provi-
sion leads to an anomaly. Where a beneﬁciary
has even 1 Rupee of other income, the income
becomes chargeable at the maximum rate. More-
over, the provision is not simple in its Working.
The draft, therefore, proposes a provision where-
under the tax will always be at the rate appli-
cable to an association, except in cases where
the income is received by a beneﬁciary and the
Income--tax Olﬁcer desires to charge income-tax
at the rate individually applicable to him'. Notes to clause 175

Existing section 41(1) , 2nd proviso, has been embodied
in this clause, which does not need, any comments. Notes to clause 176

This is new and has been introduced on the lines of section 75 of the South ,African Income--tax Act, in order
to make it clear that the fact that a person is holding cer-
tain property as a representative assessee (and not as the
beneﬁcial owner) does not affect the remedies available to
the department against the property; Notes to clause 177

Existing section 41(2) provides, in effect, that though
a Court of Wards, Oﬂicial trustee, trustee appointed under
a deed etc. is assessable as representing the beneﬁciary. the
direct assessment of the beneﬁciary is not barred. There is
no reason why this principle should not be applied to all
representative assessees, and 'the rule has, therefore. been
embodied in this clause, which will be applicable to all cases
of representative assessment. 3 The Subject has been 'disccussedby the Taxation Enquiry Commission,
which however, did not favo _ y change See T. E. C. Report (1953-31), pt,
II,:ch. VIII para. 9 to u, _ .-107. 5 -_ 

l 429 Notes to clause 178

This is new and is intended to state the position re-
garding tax in respect of the estate .of a deceased person
in the hands of the executor. The clause, of course will be
conﬁned in its application to income derived after death.
Income in respect of the period up to death will be governed
by existing section 24B, which has already been incorporat-
ed in the draft clause in this Chapter relating to legal re-
presentatives. The clause has been drafted on the lines of the relevant
provision of the Ceylon Income-tax Ordinance.'

Notes to clause 179

This is consequential on the new clause introduced in
the draft laying down the liability of the executor, and
will authorise the executor to recover the tax from the
persons to whom the estate is to be distributed. Notes to clause 180

General.--Existing section 26(2) , which deals with the
case of succession to business, profession or vocation, raises
a number of difficulties, and the language of the section has
not escaped criticism". Some difficulty is created by the
words "where a person carrying on a business .......... ..has
been succeeded in such capacity". The exact signiﬁcance of
the words "in such capacity" is not clear. The observations
of the Privy Council' indicate that what is in-
tended is, that the business _etc. should continue to be
carried on by the successor. A person who becomes merely
a successor (in the sense that he gets the legal ownership
of the business etc. but does not actively continue the busi-
ness etc.) would not be governed by this section, since in
his case there would not be any income after the date of
succession. The wording of the section, therefore requires
some change to make this intention clear. For the sake of simplicity, section 26(2) has been split
up in three sub-sections in the draft. Sub-clause (1).--Apart from the changes explained
above. the following drafting changes have been made :--- (1) The existing words "person succeeded" and "person . succeeding" cause a slight confusion, since it is not clear
whether the predecessor is .intended or the successor is
intended, and some effort has to be made to remember the
person intended to be covered. The expressions "predeces-
sor" and "successor" have, therefore, been used in the
draft in place of these words. i

' See Sections n (to) and 11 (u) of the Ceylon Income-tax Ordinance. ' See observations of Madhavan Nair J. in jupudi Kexava Ran vs. C.I.'I'o
(1935) 3 I-T-R- 339. 343 ( Mad-)- ,

' Mahamjadhiraj of Darbhanga vs. C.I.T. Bilut -and Oriua (1934) 2 I.T.R.,
34.5, 347, 348 (P.C.)-61 LA. 312-LL. R-. 13! 607.' g 430 (2) In ordergto explain the effect of this section more
clearly, clauses (a) and (b) have been added in the draft
to provide that the income upto succession is assessable. on
the predecessor and the income after successi.on is assess-
able on the successor. Incidentally, the use of the words
"income of the previous year up to succession" will also
make it clear that the previous year talked of is the pre-
vious year in which the succession took place. Sub-clause (2).--The words "year in which succession
took place" have, in the draft, been prefaced by the word
"previous". For the sake of clarity, the latter half of sec-
tion 26(2), Proviso, has been dealt with in a separate sub-
clause, see draft sub-clause (3). Sub-clause (3).--In existing section 26(2) , Proviso, latter
half. which provides that the tax in respect of the "assess-
ment .......... ..assessed on the person succeeded", shall. be
payable by the successor, the wording does not sound well ;
the recurrence of "assessment" and "assess" can be avoid-
ed. The language has, therefore, been altered' in order to
make the intention clear, though this has resulted in a
slight elaboration. Sub-clause (4).--Existing section 25A . sub-section (2),
deals in part with the case of succession, though that sec-
tion mainly deals with the partition of a Hindu family. The
portion dealing with succession has been incorporated in
this sub-clause, for reasons already explained in the notes
to the draft clause' dealing with partition of Hindu families. The words "where any person has succeeded to a busi-
ness .......... ..formerly carried on by a Hindu undivided
family whose joint family property has been partitioned
on or after the last date on which it carries on such busi-
ness .......... .." in existing section 25A(2) , do not give out
the intended meaning easily. What is intended is, that there
is ﬁrst a succession to the business of a family, and simul-
taneously with the succession or subsequent thereto there
is partition of the family property. This has been stated in
more direct language in the draft sub-clause under discus-
sion. It has also been made clear that it is the income upto
the date of succession which is to be assessed in the manner
provided in the section relatin to partition. Income sub-
sequent to succession will be t en care of by existing sec-
tion 26(2), and this has also been made clear by the words
"but without prejudice to the provisions of this section" at
the end of the draft sub-clause. Notes to Clause' 181

General.--Existing section 25A is really intended to lay

.down the proposition, that until there has been a complete

partition of the joint family pmperty and the Income-gtax
Qﬁicer records a ﬁnding to .eﬁe,ct, the family should

x Su-notes to dnfcclitne IF!) (4). " . I 431 be treated as joint and assessed as a Hindu undivided -fami-
1y. The way in which the section begins, however, clouds
the main proposition, because the section begins with pro-
cedural matters and relegates the main proposition to the
last sub-section. The various sub-sections have, therefore.
been re-arranged in order to emphasise the main proposi-
tion contained in the section. Sub-clause (1).--It has been held by the Privy Council'
that section 25A applies only where there is a total parti-
tion. This is certainly the position under the existing sec-
tion. But it would be desirable to apply the procedure con-
tained in the section to partial partition also. The draft,
therefore, makes this alteration in the section, with con-
sequential changes. '

Sub-clause (2).--The proviso to section 25A(1) has been
combined with the main para. Sub-clause (3).---Provision has been made that the In-
come-tax Oﬁicer, while passing an order under this section,
should record a ﬁnding as to the date of the partition. This,
besides avoiding many complications, will facilitate the
assessment for the periods before and after partition. Sub-clause (4).--Some confusion is caused by the
language of existing section 25A(2) , Which, while opening
with a reference to a case of partition, goes off at a tangent
to deal with the case of succession. For the sake of clarity,
these two cases should be dealt with separately, even though
the substantive rule to be applied may be the same. Draft
sub-clause (4) conﬁnes itself to partition. Succession is dealt
with in the separate clause' corresponding to existing sec-
tion 26(2). The existing provision in section 25A(2) , main para, to
the effect that the Income-tax Ofﬁcer shall make assess-
ments on the members or group of members accordingly
'_'in accordance with the provisions of section 23 "' creates an
impression that a special assessment for the purposes of
this section has to be made, on the member etc. This is,
however, not the intention. The section is merely intended
to lay down the liability of the members for pre-partition
income, and does not require that the assessment made in
pursuance of his liability should be made separately from
the individual assessment of each member. This part of
the sub-section has, therefore, been omitted. There is some amount of confusion, in existing section
25A(2) , as to how far a member (or "group of members")
is liable for pre-parti'. ion tax. While the main para. of that
sub-section says that each memberis liable for a "share of
the tax on the income so assessed" according to the por-
tion of the joint family pr erty allotted to him, the pro-
viso says that the liability s all be _"g'qint and several". The

' SImdarS:'n_hMa':tln' was: I H 10 I.'I"' J» 'P.C. " Sub-clause (2).--The period, whose income is char_ge~
able is mentioned separately in this sub-clause. The existing
provision says that the total income to be assessed is "'of
the period from the expiry of the last previous year of
which the income has been assessed in his hands to the
probable date of his departure from the taxable territories,
or where he has not been previously .assessed, on his total
income of the period up to the probable date of his depar-
ture from the taxable territories". Now, in so far as this
period covers a previous year which has been completed
before the commencement of the ﬁnancial year in which the
Income-tax Officer takes action under this section, the sec-
tion has no importance, because assessment for such earlier 1. Sn I.'I'.I.C; Report -094155, page 25, 58. - %

Ev
,. previous years can be made even umier the normal pro-
vision in section 3 . It is only in respect of a previous year
which falls wholly or in part within the ﬁnancial year that
the section needs to be relied upon. In the draft, therefore,
the words just now quoted have been omitted. Of course, it is still necessary to cover cases where a
completed year of income forms part of the period from
the end of the last previous year to the date of departure.
For example, a person whose previous ear ends on the 31st
December may leave India, say, in ebruary, 1958. The
year of income commencing on the 1st January, 1957 has to
be covered, because the assessment year for that income
will be 1958-59, which has not yet started. In such cases
the complete year of income 1957 as well as the fraction
from 1st January, 1958 to February, 1958 may be governed
by this section. Hence, draft sub-clause (2) does not make
any other modiﬁcation as regards the taxable period. Under the existing section, the position regarding rate -of tax has been stated in a very elaborate manner. It says
that the assessment shall be made. "as regards each com-
pleted previous year" at the rate at which such income

would have been charged had it been fully assessed. Now, - as already explained, the incomes of years completed before
the commencement of the assesment year in which the In-
come-tax Olﬁcer takes action are governed by the normal
provision in section 3 , and it does not make any difference
whether they are dealt with under section 3 or under this
section. Under section 3 , the rate applicable is the rate for
the relevant ﬁnancial year; such cases should, therefore, be
left to be governed by section 3 , and hence the words just
now quoted are unnecessary and have been omitted in the

draft. The remaining "previous year", that is, the period'

from the end of the previous year for the assessment year
to the date of the departure will continue to be governed
by this section. As a matter of fact, the words just now quoted are
misleading from one point of view, because, if interpreted
strictly, they would mean that a person leaving India in
February, 1958 and having his previous year ending with
the 31st day of December, 1957 would he chargeable at the
rate applicable to the assessment year'1'958--59. Obviously,
this is not the intention, and the provision as embodied in
the draft will obviate any possibility of any such wrong
result being deduced from this section. Sub-clause (3).--The criticism of the existing section,
made above in the notes to sub-clause (2), applies in res-
pect of the provisions for estimating the total income also.
The power to estimate should not be conﬁned, as in the
existing section, to a fraction of aipreirious year; even a
completed previous year might fall within the period for
which the income has to be ."qstima, ". The sub-clause
has therefore been widened to-' -'ve a fder. power to the
Income-tax Officer in this respg = _q »_-. - ' 436 Sub-clause (_4).~--In view of the simpliﬁcation made in
sub-_section (1), it has become possible to simplify this sub-
section by removing the elaborate description of the period
for which return is to be called. The_ words "(along with such other particulars as may
be provided in_ the notice)" have been omitted in the draft,
since the pI'0VlSl0I1 that it is a notice under section 22 (2) implies that other particulars are also to be furnished,
where required. The words "subject to the provisions of'
this section" have been added for precision, particularly
in view of draft sub-clause (3). Sub-clause (5).----It appears desirable to make it clear
that the special assessment made under section 24A is in
addition to any regular assessment which may happen to
take place in the same assessment year. This has been
made clear by this sub-clause. Existing section 25(1) , latter
portion, may be compared. ~

Sub--clause (6).--This is new. The special provision
limiting the period of hotice to seven days, embodied in
sub--clause (4), is applicable to the emergency assessment: vious year's income in the next assessment year is
modiﬁed in this section; (ii) the words "discontinued in any year" have been.
replaced by "discontiiued in any assessment yyear",
for the sake of precision ; ' r ' --- - . ..._..._........ . -.... .... (iii) words excluding a business etc., charged under'

' the 1918 Act have been added, since section' 25 (1)

does not apply to such business, vide the words

"to which sub-section (3) is not applicable", in
existing section 25 (1) ; (iv) it has been made clear that the power to charge-
tax in the current assessment year is to be exercis-
ed at the discretion of the Income-tax Officer; (V) the existing words "assessment may be made in.
that year on the basis of the income .......... ..in
addition to the assessment, if any, made on the
basis of the income .......... ..of the previous year" reference to the normal previous year in sub-
clause (1). Draft sub-clause (4), however, makes it
clear that any assessment made under the normal'
provision will not be affected by the special pro-
cedure given in this section. Sub-clause (2).--Does not need any comments.
Sub-clause (3).--Does not need any comments.
Sub-clause (4).--See notes under sub-clause (1). The remaining portion of section 25 has been embodi-
ed in the draft at the appropriate places. Notes to clause 186

Sub-clause (1).-- Section 44 of the existing Act deals
the assessment in case of discontinuance of business.
by ﬁrms and dissolution of associations. The part dealing
with ﬁrms is being incorporated in a separate clause (vide
separate Chapter relating to ﬁrms). The part dealing with
associations has been incorporated here. A reference to the legal representative of a member
who is deceased has been added'to provide for cases where
a member dies after dissolution and before assessment. The changes made by the Finance Act, 1958 have been
given effect to. Sub-clause (2).--This is new. The object is to allow
the Income-tax Officer to.contin_ue assesment proceedings
already started before the dissolt tion eﬂ} So. that time may
not be wasted in the re-issue of n tices eta ' 438 _ Sub--clause (3).--- Section 44(3) , as inserted by the
Finance Act, 1958, authorises the Income-tax Officer etc.,
to impose a penalty under clause (a) or (b) or (C) of section
28 (1) in respect of a dissolved ﬁrm or association. Instead
of rnak1ng_an elaborate provision on the lines of that sub-
section, it is considered sufficient to say that the provisions
relating to 'tax will apply to penalties also. Sums other
thanpenalties have also been covered in the draft. The
provision as drafted will, thus be more comprehensive,
though less elaborate in form. Sub-clause (4)----This is new and is intended to make
it clear that the limitation on the liability of the legal re-
presentative is not to be affected by the provisions of this
section. This becomes necessary in view of the fact that in
draft sub-clause (1) a reference to legal representative has
been added. Notes to clause 187

Existing section 12AA is applicable in all cases where
the time taken by the author of a book is more than twelve
months. Clauses (a) and (b) dealing separately with a case
where the time taken is "less" than 24 months and a case
where the time is "more" than 24 months, are unneces-
sary in the opening portion, since this distinction is rele-
vant only in connection with the mode of separately allo-
cating income. The distinction does not affect the applica-
bility of the main principle of the section. A slight recast-
ing of the language has, therefore, been attempted in the
draft on this point. Clause (a) of the existing section uses the words
"less than twenty-four months" and clause (b) uses the
words "more than twenty-four months". For the sake of
precision, the former wording has been replaced by "not
more than twenty-four months", so that clauses (a) and (b) can collectively exhaust all cases, including a case
where the time taken is exactly 24 months. It may be observed here that existing section 12AA was inserted in 1953. The Taxation Enquiry Commission'
recommended the spread-over of income not only for copy-
right but also for patents. The Commission suggested that
'proceeds of sale of patent rights should be spread over a
period of six years. Section 318 of the U.K. Income-tax' Act.
1952, also allows such spread-over in the case of patents.
It is for consideration whether the section should not be -extended to patents. 'Notes to clause 188

Existing section 8 , third proviso, has been incorpora-
ted here with two changes:--- (i) The rate at which the State Government will pay
tax should be laid down by the Finance Act spe-
ciﬁcally; this has been made clear in the draft. 1 '['.E.C.'Re1§o'rt (xgfg-1954.), II, Ch. 111, par'a'7. page 42.' p

4% (ii) Since the word "receivable" in existing Section
8 , main para, has in the draft been replaced by
word "received", necessary drafting changes have
been made here also. CHAPTER XVI '

SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO FIRMS
Notes to clause 189

Provisions relating to ﬁrms have been brought together
in this Chapter under the following groups :-- Sub-clause (1).--Existing section 23 (5) (a) provides
that the total income of each partner, "including therein
his share" etc., shall be assessed and the sum payable by
him on the basis of such assessment determined. Since the
scheme of assessment in the case of a registered ﬁrm is,
that the partner is himself assessed on his share, these
words have been replaced in the draft by the words "the-
share .......... ..shall be included in his total income" etc.,
which seem to be more appropriate. Sub-clause (2).----Does not need any comments. Though
this provision is in a sense repetition of existing section

16(1) (b) Proviso, it has been a lowed to stay for the sake
of convenience of reference. Sub-clause (3).--The existing words "his share ....... .. shall be assessed on the ﬁrm" have been replaced in the '

draft by the words "tax on his share .......... ..shall be asses--A
sed on the ﬁrm", which are more appropriate. Section 23 (5) (a) (i) has been retainedin the draft in

the existing form; but it is recommended that it may be
deleted. The Finance Act, 1956 , introduced this new provision
making a ﬁrm liable to income-tax on its income at a
special rate provided by it. The provision for including
the shares of the proﬁts of the ﬁrm within the total income
of a partner in his individual assessment and levying tax
upon it was also retained. This implies,.s that the share of
the partners in the proﬁts of the ﬁrm suffers tax twice----
once in the hands of the ﬁrm and again in his own hands.
This is really a double taxation of the same income though
at different rates. [The same Finance Act, 1956 , introdu-
ced a new provision [ section 14(2) (aa) ] under which the
proportionate income-tax paid by the ﬁrm on the share of
income included in the partners' share is deducted. It
means that the partner is not_.liable Ip pay income-tax
on the pro orticnate tax; but. it not obviate the
diﬁiculty 0 double taxation]. _ . . 'z 1 440 (No'rE.--It is understood that in the year 1957-58, there
were 6651 registered ﬁrms which were assessed to a tax of
1 crore 57 lakhs on a total income of about 51 crores.) Section 23(5) (a) , 3rd Proviso, has been omitted, as it
is in substance the same as the second proviso. It was
introduced for the purpose of enabling persons going to
Pakistan to be treated as non-residents, The necessity for
any such special provision does not remain now. Notes to clause 190

Paragraph (a).----Existing section 23 (5) (b) does not
directly state the position that in the case of an unregister- -ed ﬁrm the tax payable by the ﬁrm itself on the basis of
his total income is to be determined. This is the primary
mode of assessment of an unregistered ﬁrm, and has, there-
fore, in the draft, been stated at the opening of the clause
in paragraph (a). (The existing words "instead of determin-
ing .......... .." are thus covered by this paragraph). Paragraph (b).--The drafting changes that have been
made are intended to state the position in more simple
manner. Notes to clause 191

General.--The provisions relating to procedure for
registration of ﬁrms, as contained in existing section 26A,
.are sketchy; because many of the important provisions are
at present contained in the rules. It seems desirable to
«collect together some of the provisions at present contained
in the rules, and the draft clause has therefore, been made
more elaborate. - Sub-clause (1).---.The existing words "constituted
under" an instrument of partnership are found in practice
to lead to unnecessary controversy based on sharp distinc-
tions'. They have, therefore, been replaced by the words
"evidenced by". The existing words "specifying the individual shares -of the partners" have been construed too technicall some-
times, so that applications for registration are re used if
the shares are not given in the partnership deed speciﬁcally
in so many words, or if the partnership deed is not self-
contained and has to be read with the deeds relating to
subsidiary ﬁrms in which the partners are interested. It
is felt that registration should not be refused in such cases
"merely on the ground of the existence of such ﬂaws in the
partnership deed. Necessary drafting changes have been
made to achieve this object. Sub-clause (2).--It has been made clear that the appli-
«cation for registration may be made even after the dissolu-
tion of the ﬁrm, 1. Sea the Case citedin Kong; 'and Palkhiwalfs Commentary, [958
Edition, page 650. . . ....._...........» 441 Sub-clause (3).----The persons who should join in an
application for registration have been mentioned exhaus~
tively in this sub-clause, which_ incorporates the second
paragraph of rule 5 of the Income-tax Rules. Sub-clause (4).--~Under the existing provisions (rule 2
of the Income-tax Rules), the first app ication for regis-
tration has to be made within six months of the constitu-
tion of the firm or before the end of the previous year of
the ﬁrm, whichever is earlier, if the ﬁrm was constituted
in that previous year. Where a firm is already registered
under the Partnership Act or the deed is registered under
the Indian Registration Act , the application has to be made

before the end of the previous year. It has been suggested . that the 30th day of June of the assessment year "should be
,.adopted as thelast date by which an application for ﬁrst
registration should be made. But the adoption of this

time-limit would enable the assessee to get registered an'

antedated partnership. It seems desirable that, irrespective -of the fact whether the deed is or is not registered under
one or other of the laws referred to above , the application
should in all cases be made before the expiry of the pre-
vious year. The reason is, that the assessee is claiming an
advantage under the Act in respect of proﬁts earned in
the previous year on the basis that during that year the
ﬁrm came into existence. If that is so, he must be able to
make good that plea by a proper application made before.
the end of the previous year. If any more time is given,
there will be ample scope for the assessee to make up his
mind whether to get the ﬁrm registered or not and for
that end to invent a partnership antedating the constitution
for the entire period and bringing into existence a docu-
ment evidencing such partnership. The draft sub-clause under discussion gives effect to
this proposal. A proviso has been added authorising the
Income-tax Oﬁicer to entertain an application made after
the end of the previous year in proper cases. Sub-clause (5).--~The provision contained at present
in the rules, requiring the application to be accompanied
by the instrument evidencing the partnership, has been
incorporated in this sub-clause, and it has also been made
clear that in ﬁt cases a certiﬁed copy of the instrument
may be accepted in lieu of the original. Sub-clause (6).--The provisions contained in existing
rule 3 of the Income-tax Rules and Form I below that
rule, relating to particulars to be given in an application
for registration, have been incorporated here, with changes
intended to secure precision. Sub-clause (7).--Under existing section 26A (2) an
application for registration has to be made "at such times" Notes to clause 192

Sub-clause (1).--The procedure to be followed by the
Income-tax Officer in the enquiry for registration has been
elaborately laid down. The ground on which application
can be refused has been narrowed down so that if the exist-
ence of a genuine ﬁrm with the constitution shown in
the instrument is established, registration has to be grant-
ed. It has also been made clear that a speciﬁc order grant-
ing or refusing registration should be passed by the Income-
tax Officer. Sub-clause (2).----This is intended to prevent the rejec-
tion of an application for registration on technical grounds.
Where the formalities prescribed by the Act or rules are
not complied with, the ﬁrm must be given an opportunity
of rectifying the defect, so that the application may be con-
sidered on the merits. Sub-clause (3).--See notes under sub-clause (2) aboye. Sub-clause (4).----This is intended' to expedite the dis-
_posal of applications for registration. f

Sub-clause (5).----Existing rule 4(1) of the Income-tax
Rules provides that the Income-tax Officer shall record a
certiﬁcate of registration on the instrument of partnership.
This practice is sought to be codiﬁed in this sub-clause. Sub-clause (6).------Does not exceed any comment.
Notes to clause 193. Sub-clause (1).--The power to cancel registration, at
present dealt with in the Rules, has been dealt with here
as it is a matter of substance. This clause is new, but does
not depart in substance from the provisions at present con-
tained in the Rules. It has been made clear that registration
can be cancelled only on the ground of mis-represenihtion.
It has also been made clear that the ﬁrm must have an
opportunity of being heard before the registration is can-
celled; it has also been provided that registration can be
cancelled only with the previous approval of the Inspect-
ing Assistant Commissioner. . 1.: ma " .::. 1000953-54) Yb 11. 4-I3
Sub-clause (2).-----Does nd. need any comments.
Subéciouses» (3) "and (4).---These' are new, but embody
provisions which are hardly objectionable. Sub--clause (5).----This is newand is intended to pres-
cribe a time limit after which the registration cannot be
cancelled. Notes to clause 194

The words in existing section 26 (1) "or a ﬁrm has
been newly constituted" do not exactly indicate what is
intended. The preceding words "cha_nge' in the constitu- tion of a ﬁrm" would cover cases where the old ﬁrm con-- tinues, in the sense that some but not all the members
of the ﬁrm are changed. In other words, where the ﬁrm
consists of partners A, B and ,C, the dropping out of A and
B and coming in of new partners D and E would merely
be a case of change in the constitution of the ﬁrm'. The
words "a ﬁrm has been newly constituted" would, there- fore, appear to be redundant. They have, therefore, been: 'Qf.dnﬁcla.usc186a.ndnotes . 'E ='
29-! Law Com.]58. g 444 CHAPTER XVII -SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COMPANIES

Notes to clause 198 '

This clause is new and is intended to give a list of

provisions specially applicable to companies which are . scattered at several places in the Act. The list has been
given for the sake of convenience of reference. CHAPTER XVIII
COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX

Notes to clause 199. This clause is new and.is intended to make it clear
that there is some kind of liability to pay tax in cases
where tax is deductible at source or payable in advance'.
Such "charge." of tax, which is implied in the obligation to
pay tax in advance etc., has been brought out more direct-
ly in this-clause. Notes to clause 200

This clause brings together the provisions relating to
direct payment of income-tax and of super-tax respec-
tively, contained in existing sections 19 and 58 (2) . Notes to clause 201

General.~The scheme adopted in the draft is to deal
in separate clauses with deductions in respect of the" vari-
ous classes of income, such as salary, interest, dividends,
etc. The substantive provision for deduction has been
placed in the first few clauses, while incidental provisions
like certiﬁcate, etc., and consequences of deduction like
credit, payment of tax by the person deducting etc., :have
been placed after those clauses. Sub-clause (1).-The existing words "at a rate re-
presenting the average of the rates applicable" have 4been
replaced in the draft by the words "average rate of income-
tax and average rate of super-tax respectively, in force for
the ﬁnancial year in which the payment is made". 'This
change has been made for the sake of precision. Further,
the existing words "' plicable to the estimated total in-
come .......... ..under tlig head", are slightly unhappy; the
expression "total income" should be reserved for the total
income from all sources in the previous year. The draft,
therefore, uses the words "income of the assessee under
this head for that ﬁnancial year". Sub-clause (2).----The existing rovision to the effect
that the person payin salary s al deduct income-tax at
the maximum rate an 1 also super-tax under section 17(1) ':7 . " sion "tax .......... ..in accordance with" existing Section 17

(1) . Sub-clause (3).~--Does not need any comments, since
the drafting changes made are only consequential,

Sub-clause (4).-----This is new and is intended merely
to point to the deduction in respect of tax on accumulated

balance paid to an employee participating in a recognised_

provident fund. Sub-clause (5).~----This is also new and is intended to
point to the deduction of tax in the case of amounts paid
to an employee participating in an approved superannua-
tion fund. Sub-clause (6).----This embodies the latter part of S.
18 (2A) . The earlier part of that sub-section does not seem
to serve any useful purpose; salary is now taxable wher-
ever paid, and it does not seem necessary to make a special
mention of the deduction in respect of salary payable
to the assessee out of India hy.the Government. Notes to clause 202

The provision for deducting the tax in respect. of in- terest on securities has been embodied in this clause with'

the following drafting changes :------ (i) the deduction in respect of income-tax and that
in respect of super-tax have been stated in sepa-
rate sub-clause for the sake of clarity; (ii) as regards deduction of super-tax in respect of com-
panies, it has been made clear that the rate appli-'
cable is that in force for a company which has
not made the arrangements referred to in existing section 18 (3D) . This will remove the uncertainty
at present experienced as to the exact rate applic-
able in' such cases. (This clariﬁcation is not neces-
sary in the case of deduction.frorn salaries, since
the situation of a company which receives salary is
not likely to arise). - Notes to clause 203 . _
The drafting changes made follow the lines of those
made in existing section 18(3A) '. '
T " ' Notes todclause 204 _
The following drafting changes have been made-- (i) The position_regai-ding income-tax and super-tax
has been treated in separate sub-clauses ; ' he notes to clause 202. (ii) in the case of a company, the rate applicable has
been stated more precisely as in the case of de-
ductions under the head "Interest on securities or
on dividends '; (iii) the concluding words of existing section 18 (3C) provide that the Income-tax Ofﬁcer may deter-
mine the appropriate proportion of any sum charge-
able to tax, and upon such determination tax shall
be deducted "therefrom'?. The word "therefrom"
does not clearly give out the sense that the_ deduc-
tion is to be limited to the proportion of the sum
so determined. Suitable drafting changes have been
made to make this clear. Notes to clause 205

The provision authorising the Income-tax Officer to
issue a certiﬁcate for deduction of tax at a lower rate,
which has been repeated in the existing Act in the provisos
to various sub-sections of section 18 , has been embqldied
in this Elause, which is applicable for all kinds of inclpme.
The drafting changes made are consequential on the
scheme adopted in the draft. It has also been made clear
that the Income-tax Officer can issue a certiﬁcate not ﬁonly
authorising the deduction at a lower rate but also autlior_i5-
ing no deduction. '

That part of existing section 18 (2B) , Proviso, which
relates to an order by the Income-tax Officer requirin de-
duction at a particular rate, has been omitted in the aft
as unnecessary. In cases where a person desires deduction
at a lower rate than the maximum, he can a ply td the
Income-tax Officer and obtain a certiﬁcate. De uction,at a
higher rate is not contemplated, since the rate applicable
for deduction is in most cases the maximum rate. (I ' the
case of salary, it is only the rate applicable to the in ome

under that head and "deduction at any other rate is not- contemplated). Notes to clause 206

This embodies existing section 18 (4) and does not heed
any comments. . Notes to clause 2,07
Existing section 18(5) . deals with two topics :-- 1 Sn notes to clause 20¢. a

v 447 For the sake of clarity, the first topic has been dealt
with in this clause, while the Second has been dealt with
separate] '. The Proviso to this sub-sebﬂion has, therefore,
been bro en up in conformity with the scheme adopted
in the draft. '

The ﬁrst proviso to section 18 (5) has been incorporat-
ed for simplicity in the main para. of the sub-clause. The second proviso to section 18(5) has been incor-
porated in the 1st Proviso, andgthe Words "or shareholders" tion of tax on div-it ' under existing section 18

(3D) , the principal O cer as " ell as the company . been considered desir le in few of the fact that
the existing section (3D) fuses the expression
"person". ' 2 ' '

(2) Since existing section 16(1) relating to the imposi-
tion of penalty by ,e ordelt pf the Income-tax
Oﬁicer is in the draft propo éto be replaced by
provision for automatic runn' gof interest," the
proviso has been suitaﬂly altered. (3) Sub-clause (2) has bin neg? added for impos- can be treated as in ﬁfault. is clariﬁcation has

ing a ﬁrst charge u n the slsets of the person
deducting tax, if it is not pd into the treasury
oﬂice after deduction. The intention is to ensure
speedy transmission of the amount deducted so
that the amount may not lie-ighathe custody of the
person deducting it'. ' ' 1

' S¢e'Chapter_ on Tax deemed to have been on dividends.
, ' ' 5 . ' Soc clause 230(1). 1 ' - s Cf. Section 123 (6) of the (Cana5:li+-1) 1913.. Notes to clause 210

Existing section 18(8) has been embodied here without
any change. -Notes to clause 211

Existing section 18(9) has been embodied here with-
out any change. Notes to clause 212
Existing section 18 (Explanation) has been embodied
here. with a small drafting change. Item (iii) has been

ampliﬁed so as to cover all sums not chargeable as salary
or interest on securities. Notes to clause 213

Existing section 7 (1) , 2nd Proviso, provides that where

tax is deductible at source under existing section 18 , the

assessee shall not be called upon to pay the tax himself
unless he has received the salary without such deduction.
This provision is at present conﬁned to salary, but there
seems to be no reason why it should not be extended to
all kinds of income. It has, therefore, been incorporated in
an extended form in this clause. . Notes to clause 214
This is new and is consequential on the breaking up
of existing section 18(5) . Notes to 'clause 215

General.------Existing section 18A is cumbersome and
difﬁcult to understand. The difficulty arises by reason of
the fact that sub-section (1) cqmbines a number of things
which could be dealt with separately. For the sake of sim-
plicity, therefore, the section has been split up in the
draft, so as to deal separately with the following topics :- cerned; (ii) the income subject to advance tax as estimated for
that period; and - (iii) the advance itself. 7

This has been made clear in the draft. in sub-clans
(1) & (2). i _

An assessee may desire to ﬁle an estimate under. e 'st-
ing section 18A(2) whim the estimated advance -tax is less
than the amount demarjded by the Income-tax Oiﬁcer, e . er
;because-- . ' _ (i) the estimated total income is less, or (ii) the estimated' income' subject to advance is
less, than that 'assessed by the Income-tax cer.
This is made, clear in sub-clause (1). - ' *

, Sub-clause (4).--Is_nevv and is intended to provide A at
the estimate of adv tax will be ﬁled in the prescrbed

.form and in the pre T 'bed manner. Notes to clause 221 

Section 18A(4) is embodied; here with the following
changes z--- - (i) the words "income to which sub-section (1), (2) or
(3) apply" have been aplaced by the "in-
come subject V adv a tax" in conformity ' ith
the scheme ado?ted in qdraft. - 2 --- i. \ l it ; i

'l8£:( , 2nd Proviso, -is-ap Hcable , die' '
ex},-5 -. '24? v 450. (ii) The proviso to the existing sub-section provides for
payment of 6 per cent. simple, interest. In view
of the fact that the rate of interest in the other
sub-sections of section 18A is now reduced to 4 per
cent' the rate has, in the draft, been reduced to
4 per cent. in this case also. 3

Notes to clause 222. Sub-clause (1).--Existing section . 18A(5) relating to
interest payable by the Central Government on tax payable
'in advance has been embodied here. The sub-section, as
amended in 1953, raises a diﬂicult quation of interpreta-
tion. The main part of the sub-section provides that inte-
rest should be paid (at 4 per cent.) on any sum paid after
1st April, 1955, "from the date of payment to the date of
the provisional assessment" or? to the regular assessment
:as the case may be; but the secdnd proviso, inserted in 1953,
:says that for the period beginning with"? 1-51; April, 1952, the
interest is payable from the beginning of the next finan-
«cial year to the date of the r A ar ausdssment. There is
thus a change as regards the eriod ﬁr' which interest is
to be paid. ,Another change made in 1 _ is as regards the
uamou-nt on which interest is pa able. Ie the main para.
provides that interest is paya "on ah amount payable
in accordance with the provisipns of th section .......... ..
and paid accordingly", the second proviso, inserted in 1953.
provides that for the period inning with the 1st April,
1952, interest is payable only the amount by which the

aggregate of the instalments paid durin the ﬁnancial year '

in which they are payable exceeds the am urfder the regu-
lar assessment. Now the question is, whether, these. changes inserted
by the 1953 Act in the shape cf the second proviso are to
govern the whole of the post-1 52 periqd: or whether they
are to apply only in respect 0 4 the pant-41952 and pre-1955
period. If the second proviso is taken as overriding' the
main para, the former view is correct. If, on the other and,
the proviso is taken as limited '-to the period between 1952
and 1955 (on the theory that a groviso knot to replace the
main section), the second view an be supported. '

The main draft of the clause undertngscussion embodies
the former view, which seemsito be , prevailing view.
But, if the latter view is adopted. it cant: 'be given effect to -: able as advance tax in accordance wi the provisions of

' See existing section 18A (5), item (ii) and section l'8A (6), 1st Proviso. 9 The alternativcgdraftis intended, 1 inop 1 the view that section -.t

( §52.--'i9':i5 and does not
ovcrricthcmainsub-loch - .- section [18A(1) (2) (3) and (4)] and paid accordingly, from
the date of payment to the date of the provisional assess-
ment made under section [23B], or, if no such assessment.
has been made to the date of the regular assessment ....... .. Explanation.--Same as in the main draft.
(2) Same as in the main draft. Notes to. clause 223
Interest payable by the assessee has been dealt with in

this section. The 1st proviso to existing section 18A(6) has»
been combined with the main paragraph. - One important change made is. that interest is not to
run from the 1st day of January of the year in which the

advance tax is paid but from the 1st day of A 'l in the _

next ﬁnancial year. This chan e has been ma e in View
of the fact that interest payab e by the Central Govern-
ment runs from the .1st day of April of the next ﬁnancial
year; [vide existing section 18A(5)]. Existing section 18A(6), 4th proviso, which provides»
that in the case of a businessetc. newly set up, the interest
is computed in certain cases fr_om the 1st April of the ﬁnan-
cial year next following, has been omitted, since tlje rule
embodied in that proviso has, in the draft, to apply in all
cases and no separate provision is necessary. . V Notes to clause 224

The only change made in the existing section 18A(7) is
the reduction of the rate of interest payable by the assessee
(in cases of under-estimate). from 6 per cent to 4 per cent.
This change has been made in view of the fact that the
rate of interest under section ].8A(5) and section 1 '8A(6) IS'
also 4 per cent. under the existing Act. '

Notes to clause 225

Sub-clause (1).--It would be useful here to summarise-
the existing position regarding interest payable by the as-
sessee with reference to an advance tax. The position can
be analysed as follows 2- (a) interest in a case of estimate seems to be dealt with
in the following provisions for diﬂerent situa-
tions :-- sessed)----Section 18A(6); i(") deliberate under imate of tax in the ﬁr; t 
1.1 imtdm n 18A(7)(.a); 5 . L' ~ 453 (iii) under--estimate, where estimate is necessary-
under section 18A(3)----Section 18A(8); (b) If there is a deliberately false estimate of the in-e
come, the assessee may also become liable to a_
penalty under section 18A(9)(a); and similarly, if
there is a failure without reasonable cause to file
an estimate when required under section 18A(3),.
the assessee is also liable to pay a penalty under'
section 18A(9)(b); (c) in cases where the aspect of estimate is not mate--
rial and the emphasis is on non-payment of ad---
vance tax due either by virtue of an order under
section 18A(2) or section 18A(3), interest can be
charged under section 18A(8) and the assessee is.
also liable to be dealt with under section 18A(10). Sub--clause (2).--This is new. It seems desirable to
make it clear that section 18A(6), 3rd and 5th Provisos, ap~
plly to interest payable under this section. Hence this sub--
c ause. Notes to clause 226. This clause does not need anycomments. Notes to clause 227-'

The drafting changes are very minor and do not neecﬁ
any comments. Notes to clause 228. - Existing section 18A(12) has been embodied here, and'
for the sake of clarity it has also been provided that the
expression "total income" occurring in the previous
clauses should not include capital gains. Even though the
clause dealing with incomes subject to advance tax' ex-
cludes capital gains, the general provision has been repeat-
ed here for convenience. Notes to clause 229 _

Gene'rql.-----The provisions relating t9_ recovery of tax
by the Department, contained in the present sections 45 and 46. have been broken up for the sake of simplicity into va-
rious clauses in the draft. The general provision relating
to dates etc. of payment is placed ﬁrst; ;the penalty provi-
sions contained in existing section 46(1) .1is placed next. Then
follow the various modes of recovery, namely,

(1) certiﬁcate,

(2) other modes of recovery,
(3) recovery by the State Government,

(4) slpecial provisions for recovery pf Indian tax in
akistan and vice '

1 Secdnft clause 215 (l). , § . ' 454 Miscellaneous prdvisions 'come at the end. Sub--clause (1).--Existing section 45 , main para, pro-
vides that any amount speciﬁed in a notice of demami un-
der section 23A(3) or section .29 or section 31 or section 33 shall be paid' within a particular timeietc. Since, however,
under section 29 , a notice of demand is to be issued in all
cases where any tax, penalty or interest is due under the
Act, it does not appear to be necessary to mention any sec-
tion except section 29 . The draft, therefore, mentions sec-
tion 29 only. The time-limit for payment has been men-
tioned in a simpliﬁed form. Sub-clause (2).---This is new. It appears desirable to

incorporate an express provision in the Act authorising the»

Income--tax Oﬂicer to extend"tl1e time for payment or al-
low payment by instalments. Hence this sub-clause. Sub-clause (3).----Refers to the provisions for treating
the assessee as in default. Sub-clause (4).--This is new and is consequential on
sub-clause (2) of the draft which is also new. Sub-clause (5).--It has been made clear that the wer
to treat an assessee who has 'appealed as not in defa It, is
confined to the amount in dispute and it has also been made
clear that this power can be exercised even though the time
for payment has expired. '

Sub-clause (6).--Does not need any comments. N otes to clause 230

Existing section 46(1) provides that where an assessee
is in default the Income-tax Officer may lev a p nalty
not exceeding the amount in default. Un er e sting section 46(lA) , the Income-tax Officer may make the
order for an amount lower thahthe total arrears an may
go on enhancing the penalty (in the case oﬁ a cont' uing
default) subject to the limit that the total penalty sh 1 not

 

exceed the total arrears. These two sub-sections emb y a . position which is notxsatisfactoty. In the first place they
leave the matter to the discretion of the Income-tax
In the second place, sub-sectith (1A) is not happily
It creates a number cf doubik as to the exact amo _
to which the Income-lax Oﬁioer may impose the pen ty at
a particular time. Speedy collection of tax would be aci1i-
tated, if interest is to run aiinmatically from the d te of
default. Taking into account these considerations, the draft
proposes simple interest* at the rate of 10 per cent.§from

1 It may also be po'ntcd out that neqtion 23A (3), referred to in existing section 45 , has been repealed by the amendment made in 1957. ' Cf. section 270 of the Australian Income-tax etc. Act, 1936-19 (rate
being 10 p. c.). Also see sectign 54- (1) ofthe "Canadian Incomc~taJ5 A , 1948
(where the rate is 6 p. c.) arqi section $195 (I), U. K. Income-tax Ac 1952
(where the rate is 3 p. c.). 3 pi . - . ._,. T

: as difficulty was experienced having regard to the provi-
sions of the General Clauses Act deﬁning Collector. That.
deﬁnition. if strictly construed, would not include an Addi-
tional Collector. »

_I Cﬁ section 495 (2), U. K. Income-ax Act, 1952. '

. ._.....a..4....._... Notes to clause 233

This is new and is intended to make it clear that the
correctness of the assessment shall not be questioned be-
_fore the Collector, Sub-clause (2) saves the right of the
.assessee to apply to the Income-tax Officer for withdrawal
of the certiﬁcate. Sub-clauses (3) and (4) lay down that
the Income-tax Oﬂicer may correct the certiﬁcate, in which
«case he should inform the Collector. Notes to clause 234

This is new. The object is (i) to ensure that the In-
~come-tax Oﬂicer and the Collector remain in touch with
each other and (ii) to lay down the procedure in cases
where, after the issue of a certiﬁcate, time is granted for
payment of tax, or the demand is reduced'. Notes to clause 235
Sub-clause (1).--Does not need any comments. Sub-clause (2).--The only 'change made is the addition
of a restriction to the effect that salary etc. exempt. from
attachment under the Civil Procedure Code will be exempt
;for this sub-clause also. Sub-clause (3).--S1ight verbal changes have been made
in existing section 46(5) , for the sake of simplicity and pre- -c1s1on. « ,

Existing section 46(5A) , 5th paragraph, provides that
where the person to whom a notice under this sub-section
is sent does not ay amount concerned, further proceedings
may be taken " y and before the Collector on the footing
that the Income-tax Ofﬁcer's notice has the same effect as
.an attachment" etc. This language is not very happ and
has been replaced in the draft by a simpler provis n to
the effect that further proceedings may be taken as if the
amount were an arrear of tax and that the notice: shall
."have the effect as an attachment of debt by the Collector. Sub-clause (4).--This is new and is intended to enable '

the Income-tax Officer to apply to a court holding money
belong to the assessee, for payment of the tax duesfrom
'the assessee. '

Sub-clause (5).--Existing section 46(3) contemplates in -certain cases the recovery of 'arrears by the Inconte-tax
Officer by any process authorised by the "municipal law 4 'for the recovery of municipal. takes". One of the processes'

'usually found in municipal laws is, distraint and sale of
movable property, Sub-'clause (5) read with the third Sche-
rdule deals with this process. It seems unnecessary to re-
tain any of the other modes of recovery provided for by
Municipal Acts. '. Séa also duh clause 213(4). - V ' . ' -~ v section 46(7) , 2nd Proviso. Notes to clause 236

~ Doesnot need any comments. Notes to clause 237

Does not need any comments. Notes to clause 238

Does not need any comments. Notes to clause 239

_This clause does not need any comments. Notes to clause 240

Existing section 47 has been incorporated here. The
only addition made is the reference to the provision corres-
ponding to section 18A(9) for the sake of comprehensive-
ness. '

Notes to clause 241
Sub-clauses (1) to (3).--Do not need any comments. Sub-clauses (4) and (5).--These are new. Since there
are many ships or aircraft which carry passengers outside
India, it seems desirable to require the owners of the air-
craft or ships etc. to furnish a list of the persons who travel-
led by the ship etc. in the preceding months. In the absence
of any such provision it becomes difficult to put into force
the provisions of section 46A(2) , since the Income-tax
authorities have no information in their possession as to the
persons who travelled in the ship or air-craft belonging to
the person concerned against Whom section 46A(2) is direct- Sub-clause (5).--Provides that the liability enforceable
against the owners etc. of such ships etc. will not be en-
forced after two years of the date on whichthe list is ﬁled.
It gives a concession and wil1'ensure the prompt ﬁling of
such list. . Sub-clause (6).--Does not need any comments.
Notes to clause 242

The time limit for commencing recovery proceedings

contained in the existing section 46(7) , has been dealt with'

here. For the sake of simplicity, the limit has been ex-
pressed in all cases (vide the proviso in the draft) as com-
mencing from the last day of the ﬁnancial year concerned.
Under this scheme, it becomes unnecessary to reproduce

\ 438 Notes to clause 243

The only addition made is the clariﬁcation in sub-
clause (b) to the effect 'shat the Government may also in-
stitute a suit for recovery of arrears. Notes to clause 244 /

Existing section 23B(5) has been incorporated; here-
The provision was inserted only for the avoidance of doubts;
it has, however, not been disturbed in the draft. Notes to clause 245

This clause does not need any comments.
CHAPTER XIX
TAX DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN PAID ON DIVIDENDS

Notes to clause 246

Existing section 18(5) , deals in part with credit'to be
given in respect of the tax deemed to have bee paid
on dividends. Existing section 49B also contains pro-
visions on income-tax. All these provisions have bee com-
bined in this clause, without any change of substan . The
drafting changes made are consequential on the br aking
up of section 18(5) . H

The opening portion of section 49B(1), i.e., the 'words
"where any dividend has been paid ....... ..to any of t per-
sons speciﬁed in section 3 " etc., has been omitted, un--
necessary, particularly in view of the fact that se ion 3-
as proposed in the draft does not enumerate the char eable- entities. A proviso has been added to deal with cases whe e the
share is held by partners. me existing proviso reg rding
persons not constituting partnership may be compa . CHAPTER xx ? REFUNDS. Notes to clause 247 

i
i

General. Existing section 48 , dealing with refunds. is confused
in its arrangement. The general right to claim refund,
dealt with in existiig sub-section (1), is mixed up with
provisions relating to special. situations in sub-section (3).
Further, the restriction regarding questions that can be 459 raised in refund proceedings is unnecessarily put in the
same section in sub-section (4). An attempt has, therefore,
been made, in the draft, to separate these various topics. Clause 247--The following drafting changes have been
made in existing section 48(1) :-- Existing section 3 , as proposed in the draft, uses only the
word "person",' and it is felt that the right to claim re-
fund should be co--extensive with the liability to tax. In
the case of State Governments, it may be pointed out, there
is a rohibition against tax being charged from them, under
the onstitution. Even in respect of shares held by State
Government, refund of tax deemed to have been paid under
existing section 49B is allowed only if the dividend is in-
cluded in the total income of the person concerned; see
existing section 49B(1). There is, therefore, no harm in. ' using the word "person" in section 48(1) . (ii) The existing provision empowers the grant of re--
fund by the Income-tax Ofﬁcer, "or other authority ap
pointed by the Central Government in this behalf"; It is.
understood that the Central Government has not appoint-
ed any such authority and the need for such appointment
is not likely to arise. The wards in question have, there-
fore, been omitted. . . (iii) Other changes are minor. Notes to clause 248. Sub-clause (1)

Existing words "such other person only" have, in the
draft,' been replaced by the words "the latter alone", for
simplicity. Sub-clause (2). Existing section 49F has been embodied in this sub-
clause with the following changes 2-- (1) the' Words "who would but for such cause have
been entitled to a refund under any of the provi.
signs of this Act". have been bmitted, as unneces-
sary. (2) References to sections 48 and 49 have been deleted; it ma also be pointed out that section 49 was re
peale in 1948. (3) Besides executors etc., a reference to guardians has
been added. T

' See draft clause 3. 30- 1 Law Com./58. Notes to clause 249. Sub-clause (1). '

This is new and embodies a provision at present con-
tained in the rules. '

Sub-clause (2). The main paragraph of existing section 50 has been
embodied in this sub-clause, with slight verbal changes.
The two provisos to that section have been omitted, as not
applicable to future assessment years. The starting point of limitation has been expressed in
a more simple manner. Notes t.o clause 250. Existing section 48(2) has been incorporated in this
clause, and it has also been made clear that the Income-tax
Officer shall make the refund without any express claim
by the assessee. The words "except as otherwise provided in this Act" the complaint of delays in making refunds was consi ered.
After an analysis of the ﬁgures, the Commission p inted
out that nearly 86% of the claims for refunds wete dis- ' posed of within the year in which they were received, and

of the pending claims as on 1st April, 1953, approximately
60% were less than three months old, while only 13% were
over a year old. It was represented to them by the Depart-
ment that under administrative instructions it was obliga-
tory on the part of the 'Income-tax Ofﬁcer to dispose of

1 .T. E. C. Report, 1958-T954, Vol. II, page 214, Chapter XIII, ma '1 1,

, E

 2; ~"r'L 461 refund claims within three months. In view-of this, it is
obvious that normally the refund applications are disposed
of, (at any rate at present) within a period of three months.
The Department will not, therefore, be affected by a provi-
sion for payment of interest. The provision is intended
only to make sure that the representation made to the
Taxation Enquiry Commission by the Department would
invariably be followed with no exception. The liability to
pay interest will act, as an incentive for an early disposal

' of the refund applications and allay the fears of the
'assessees that there might be delay in the disposal of re- and separately. fund applications.'
Notes to clause 253. The only change is the addition of a requirement to
the effect that the Income-tax Ofﬁcer shall. while making
an adjustment under this section, intimate the assessee. CHAPTER XXI. APPEALS AND REVISIONS. Notes to clause 254. General. The provisions of the Act relating to appeals and revi-
sions are scattered in existing sections 30 , 31 , 33 , 33A , 33B ,
66A and 67A . Existing section 66 , dealing with reference
from the Appellate Tribunal to the High Court, is also in
a sense, connected with appeals. There are, also, provi-
sions authorising appeals in existing sections 58B(~1) and
61(3), proviso to clause (b). . An attempt has been made to bring all these provisions
together in this chapter. In order to facilitate their proper
understanding, the provisions have been arranged accord-
ing to the authority to which the appeal lies. Thus, ap-
peals, from the Income-tax Officer to the Appellate Assis-
ta_nt Commissioner are dealt with ﬁrst, under one group.
Appeals from the decisions of the Appellate Assistant
Commissioner are dealt with in a separate group and so on.
Provisions regarding revision are placed in a separate
group, and miscellaneous provisions are placed at the end. In each group, the order against which appeal is allow-
ed is speciﬁed ﬁrst, and the form ofappeal, limitation and
procedure are dealt with next; where necessary, powers
of the appellate authority have been dealt with speciﬁcally

1 It may be added here that the Incometax Investigation Commission
E194-8) had also made a similar recommendation for interest on refunds where
isposal of the application is delayed for more than sit months, Lid: its report,

page 125, para. 279. Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal have been replaced . by appeal to the High Court,. for reasons explained in the
body of the report. Clause 254. The following changes have been made in the existing section 30 , sub-section (1), main para 1-- ' (i) (ii)

The existing words "any assessee objecting to the
amount" etc.' have been replaced by the words
"any assessee aggrieved «by ....... ..", which seem to
be more appropriate. The existing section allows an appeal as to the
amount of income assessed under section 23 "or section 27 ". It is, however, unnecessary to men-
tion section 27 separately 'in this context, 'since,
even when section 27 is used, the ultimate 'assess-
ment is really made under section 23 itself; as is
clear from the concluding words of existing sec-
tion 27, This reference has, therefore, been omit-
ted. (iii) It has been made clear that an objection,7 as to (iv)

(V) (vi) (vii)

status under which
also be raised by way of appeal. The existing section allows an appeal in res ect of
loss computed under section 24 . Since, howev r, the
computation of loss, is also a part of assessment
under existing section 23 , this,reference has been
omitted. 7

The existing section allows an appeal frbm an
order refusing "to make a fresh assessment under section 27 . These words have been replaced y the
words "to reopen an assessment", which at more
easily intelligible. E
The existing section. allows an appeal from orders
under section 46(1) .' Since, however, sectio 46(1)
is, in thedraft, proposed to be replaced' by a pro-
vision authorising the automatic running of in-
terest, the question of appeal does not ari , and
this reference has been omitted.' 

The existing section allows an appeal un sec-
tions 49 and 49F. Section 49 was repealed. ' 19%,
and section 149F does not authorise any i epen- dent order of refund,.. but merely enables n exe-
cutor etc. to claim refund. The order itself pas-
ed under section 48 .- The references to see ons 49
and 49F have, therefore, been omitted. ' See draft clause 23_(E(l). :3 
5 i; I

the assessee is assesséd can _
E 463 (viii) A new provision authorising appeals in respect of
orders under existing section 35 has been added.
It is desirable' to allow appeals from such orders
passed by the Income-tax Oﬂicer, particularly since
an order under section 35 may aggrieve an assessee
who desires rectiﬁcation. (ix) The various orders relating to interest under exist-
ing section 18A have also been made appealable in
the appropriate cases'. (x) The sections under which a penalty can be imposed,
have been described more elaborately in order to
make the position regarding appeals from such
penalty clear. (xi) The following orders have been made appealable :-- tion of a certiﬁcate. (ii) order passed by the' Income-tax Oﬂicer refusing
any assessee's request to treat him as not in de-
fault, in View of an appeal. Notes to clause 255

This embodies existing section 30 , sub-section (1), 2nd
Proviso. The language has been slightly simpliﬁed. The ﬁrst Proviso to section 30 , sub--section (1) deals
with an appeal against an order under existing section 46
(1) , This has been omitted as unnecessary in the scheme
adopted in the draft'. The third Proviso to section 30 , sub-section (1), prohibit-
ing an appeal by a shareholder, in a company in respect of
which an order under existing section 23A has been passed,
has also been omitted as unnecessary, since, under section
23A as amended up-to--date, the income of a shareholder is
not aﬁected directly and the question of his being aggrieved
by any such order does not arise. Notes to clause 256
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 257
Sub-clause (1).--Does not need any comments. Sub--clause (2).~--Existing section 30(2) , dealing with
the time limit within which the appeal may be presented
from the order of the Income-tax Olﬁcer, describes in an
elaborate manner the date from which the time limit is to
be counted. It does not appear to be necessary to have such

' Cf. I. T.I. C. Report, 1948 para. 254-, page 113.
' Vidc draft clause 254 (I) and Explanation.
' See note: to draft clans! 254. 3

0 ' ,
A 464

elaborate provision, and it would be sufﬁcient if the starting
point is described as the date' on which the order is inti-
mated. The provision, ha_s, therefore, been simpliﬁed in the
draft. Where the appeal is in respect of tax, interest or
penalty, it will of course be useful to deal with the
time limit speciﬁcally (vide paragraphs (a) and (b) of the
draft sub-clause). Sub-clause (3).--Does not need any comments.
Notes_to clause 258
Sub--clause (1).--Does not need any comments.'

Sub-clause (2).---The. persons entitled to be'heard at
the appeals have been listed; cf. existing section 31(3) ,
2nd Proviso. " To cover such orders, para. (c) has been added in sub-
clause (1). (No such addition is considered necessary in the
section dealing with appeals to the Supreme Court, since
the language of the relevant provisions for these appeals
is not likely to raise the question that arose with reference
to the appeals from the Appellate Assistant Commissioner). Notes to clause 261
' Sub-clause (1).--The time limit for ﬁling an appeal from
the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is, at
present, dealt with in section 33(1) and 33(2) . These have

been combined in this sub-clause without any change of
substance. Sub-clause (2).--Does not need any comments. Notes to clause 262

The form of appeal etc. has been left to be prescribed
by rules made by the Supreme Court. Notes to clause 263

This clause deals with the powers and procedure of the
High Court. No detailed comments are needed. As to rulesiby the Supreme Court, see notes to the

relevant draft clause'. Notes to clause 264
This clause does not need any comments. Notes to clause 265 '

This clause provides that a copy of the appellate order
of the High Court shall be sent to the assessee also, besides
the Commissioner and the Appellate Assistant Commis-
sioner. This will encourage the speedy implementation of
the High Court's judgment. ' '

1 Mela Ram and Sons vs. C.I.T. (1956)-2&9 ITR. 6u7S.C.
3 C.I.T. Vs. S/whzadi Begum (I952) 21 LTRJ. u. A
' Draft clause 277. ' " to the High Court and the Supreme Court. (2) It has been provided that the Income-tax Officer'
shall make all amendments necessary for carrying
out orders of the appellate authority, irrespective of
whether the 'appellate authority gives a direction
or not. Notes to clause 276
Existing section 67A has been embodied here,«with

slight alterations. The present section authorises the ex--- '

clusion of time taken for obtaining a copy of the order. How»

ever, if the assessee is furnished with a copy. of the order,

along with the notice of the order, then the concessiongneed
not be made available to him. The provision has, therefore,

been altered accordingly. Further, the provision has been
extended to applications for revision also. I

Notes to clause 277

This is new_ The power to make rules regulating the
powers and procedure of the High Court (in appealsunder
the Act) is proposed to be conferred on the Supreme Qourt,
so that there may be uniformity throughout India. ﬁThe'
corresponding provision in the Companies Act . 1.956. (sec- tion 643) may be compared. ' Notes to clause 278

Para (a).----Does not need any comments. Pard (b).--Is new. Since the word "status" has been
used in the draft clause dealing with appeals from the orders
of an Income-tax Officer', it is considered that a deﬁnition
of that word might be useful. I 1

CHAPTER XXII

PENALTIES IMPOSABLE BY INCOME-TAX.
AUTHORITIES A

Notes to clause 279

This embodies existing section 44F(6). in so far as it
deals with imposition of a penalty. The existing section says
that if the person concerned failsyto comply with the ndtice

1 Vida draft clause 254. (12). iv '~ 1 {

I 469

issued by the Income-tax Officer (requiring him to furnish.
particulars relating to securities). "he shall be liable to a
penalty" etc. The words "he shall be liable to" have. in
the-draft, been replaced bv the words "the Income-tax Oﬂi-
cer may direct that such person shall pay" etc. This will
secure uniformity with existing section 28(1) , main para. Notes to clause 280
General. The constitutionality of section 28(1)(c) has been up-
held by a Division Bench of the High Court of Madras'. The
attack on the validity of this section in that case was based" ..;.--- the Income-tax Oﬂicer waists until the appeals, if any, as
regards the assessments, are over. After obtaining the
assessment ﬁgures as ﬁnally deterrnind, the Income-tax
Ofﬁcer pursues the notice already issued, resumes the
penalty proceedings, hears the assessee and passes an order
in proper cases under section 28(1) after obtaining an
approval of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner. "This
practice", the High Court observed, "appears to be
fair to the assessee and not contrary to the language of the
enactment"'. In the view of the High Court, "the proceed-
ings for the levy of a penalty must be initiated by an
authority when such authority was in seisin of the assess-
ment or other proceedings in the course of which it is
found that the assessee has brought himself within the mis-
chief of section 28 . When once the notice has been issued,
"the jurisdiction of that authority to continue the proceedings
is not dependent upon the continuance of other proceedings

in the course of which the penalty proceedings came to be
initiated." The purport of the words in question has been cxlifarly
explained in this judgment, and it does not appear .eces-
sary to make any change in the language. . Clause 280. Existing section 28 has been broken up in the draft in
the following manner:--- '

(1) The general power to impose penalty has been idealt
with ﬁrst. . '

(2) The special provisions applicable to ﬁrms. cont; ined
in section 28(1) Proviso (b), are dealt with 'ext. (3) The special provisions contained in other parts of

the Proviso, applicable to other cases, are pilaced
. next. (4) The special provision applicable to partners is§plac-
edat the end. , ' 
s

The words "three thousand ﬁve hundred rupe " in
existing section 28(1) , Prov. (a) have been replaced b

able words linked up with the taxable minimum whic may

'Vary from time to time (Cf. para 196, I.T.I.C. Report, 1948). Notes to clause 281 i
No comments are needed. , Notes to clause 282

Existing section 18A(9) has been incorporated in this
clause. The main para. of that sub-section has been em-
bodied in the earlier portion of the draft clause, the changes
made being consequential on the breaking up of existing
section 18A itself, the}! remaining portions of which have, in

"(r955) 28 I.T.R. 601, *3. I

suit- ' 471 the draft, been placed in the Chapter relating to collection»
and recovery of tax.'

The proviso to this sub-section has been placed in the
latter half of this clause, with verbal changes which have

been made in order to elaborate the provision and make»
its understanding easy. Notes to clause 283

Sub-clause (1).----The words "or the otherperson on
whom the penalty is sought to be imposed", have, in the
draft, been added to existing section 28(3) , in order to make
the provision comprehensiv ~

Sub-clauses (2) and (3).----No comments are needed. Notes to clause 284

No comments are needed as izo the drafting of this par-- '

ticular clause. As to the attaclr on the constitutionality of section 28 read with sections 51 and 52 of the existing Act, see notes
to the clause incorporating section 28(1) '. CHAPTER XXIII
OFFENCES AND PROSECUTIONS

Notes to clause 285 _ -This clause does not require any comments. As to the
constitutional position relating to existing sections 51 and 52 read with existing section 28(1) _ d section 28(4) , see
notes to the clause incorporating section 28(1) .' - V '

Notes to clause 286

The existing section 52 provides that if a person makes _ '

a false statement in veriﬁcation under certain sections, he
should be punishable etc. The existing section gives a long
list of the various sections under which veriﬁcation is made; but it does not, appear to be necessary to give a list of
such sections. Veriﬁcation under any provisions of the Act should.
obviously come within the purview of _«.this section. The ﬂaw
inherent in giving a list is that the list may not be exhaus-
tive and may, moreover, require to be amended Whenever
an amendment introduces a new section requiring veriﬁca- tion. The draft clause, therefore, usg the words' "any veri-- . A

ﬁcation under this Act". Notes to clause 287
No comments are needed. » ' Vida Chapter XVIII, Clause 215 at seq.
' Notes to draft clause 280. ' Clause 280. .1 472 Notes to clause 288

The words "on conviction before a Magistrate'; have
been added in existing section 54(2) , on the lines of the
language of existing section 51 , last part. CHAPTER XXIX
RECOGNISED PROVIDENT FUND

Notes to clause 28.0

General.--The provisions contained in the Chapters on
Recognised Provident F.unds and Approved Superannuation
Funds have, in some case bearing on other sections also. The
scheme adopted in the draft is to make a reference, in
other sections, to the provisions relating to such funds,
wherever convenient. Though this entailed some repetition,
it has been done for facilitating reference. E

Clause 289.--Existing section 58B has been reproduced
here. The only change made is the addition of the proviso
in sub-clause (1). Section 9 of the Employee's Provident
Funds Act, 1952, deems a provident fund established under
a scheme in accordance with that Act to be a recognised
provident fund under this chapter. So far as the funds
established under such schemes are concerned, this deem-
ing provision is sufficient. But, certain provident funds
under that Act have been exempted by Government. under section 17 of that Act, from the operation of the scheme.
Such provident funds would not be covered by the deeming
provision and it appears to be desirable to enable a relaxa-
tion of the conditions in their case. The proviso is intended
to achieve this object. [Such provident Fundshave toffu1-
ﬁl the condition laid down in section 58 of the Employee's
Provident Fund Act and those conditions are strictly in ac~
/cordance with the conditions prescribed by section 58(c) ]. Section 58B(4), dealing with appeal, has been placed in
a separate clause. Notes to clause 290 '

Existing section 58C has. in the draft. been broken u' so
as to separate the conditions from the provisions for relExa- tion of the conditions. The conditions are incorporate in

this clause. while provisions relating to relaxation are plac- _ -ed in a separate clause

Notes to clause 29i

General.----A1l provisions in the nature of relaxation of
conditions for recognition of Provident Funds have been
collected together in this clause. Sub--clause (1).--Existing section 58C(1)(a), proviso.has
been incorporated here. The, concluding words "notwith-
standing that a proportion not exceeding 10% of the 'm-
_ployees is employed outside India", in the existing secfon,

g 2

e ,

i 473 really mean that the proportion of employees employed out- .side India should not exceed 10%. The wording has, there- fore, been altered to bring out the intended meaning. Other changes are consequential on the breaking up of
.section 58C into conditions and provisions for relaxation. Sub-clause (2).--Existing section 58C(1), (b), proviso,
refers to the National Service (European British Subjects)
Act, 1940 and the National Service (Technical Personnel)
Ordinance, 1940. These references have been replaced in
the draft by the words "any law for the time being in
force", which are more comprehensive. ~

Other changes are consequential. S.ub-clause (3).----The changes made are consequential
on the breaking up of section 58C and combining of section
58C (d), Proviso and latter part of section 58C (1) (g). Sub-clauses (4) and (5).--No comments are needed. Notes to clause 292 I

No comments are needed. Notes to clause 293

This is new. Sums paid by the employer as contribu-
tions towards a recognised provident fund should be allow-
ed to be deducted in computing the employer's income'.
Hence this clause. ~

Notes to clause 294
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 295
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 296

General.--Existing section 58G, sub-section (2), has
been embodied in this clause. The proviso has been express-
ed as an item of the main sub-section. Section 58G(2) talks of exemption from the payment
of income--tax and says that the accumulated balance shall
be "excluded" from the computation of the employee's
total income. It is thus a case of total exclusion and has
been treated so in the draft. '

So far as super-tax is concerned, the exemption in sec-
tion 58G (2) was originally applicable to super-tax also,
but the words "and super-tax" were omitted by the Indian
Income-tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1933 (18 of 1933).
The reason for removing these Words from this sub-section
apparently was that the exemption for super-tax was dealt

1 Cf. existing section 58R, main para, middle . with separately in a separate sub--section----section 58G (1)

which was introduced by the same amendment Act. This '

"exemption" from payment of super-tax has, under the
scheme adopted in. the draft, to be treated as a case of
excluse from total income'. and, therefore, the draft
clause under discussion regards the exclusion as effective
both for income-tax and for super-tax. '

In other words, existing section 58G (2) has, in the
draft, been expressed as applicable both for income-tax and
for super-tax and existing section 58G (1) earlier part, has
not, therefore, been reproduced. in the draft'. It is, of
course, true that section 58G (1), earlier half, (that is, ex-
emption for super-tax) does not require continuous service

while section 58G (2 (exemgtion for income-tax) d s re-'

quire such service. ut it oes not appear necess y to
make any such distinction. The draft, therefore, does not
make any such distinction. '

The draft clause requires ﬁve years' continuous service,
before exclusion can be claimed. This will now be applic-
able in both cases, but it does not put a fresh bur en on
the assessee; because, even now under section 5 G (3)
if the employee leaves before ﬁve years he has to pity not
only income-tax but also super-tax on the basis thiat the
exemption was not available. . Existing section 58G (1), latter part, has been .infcorpo-
rated in a separate clause'. . f - Notes to clause 297

Sub-clause (1).--.-Slight verbal changes have been made
for the sake ()f clarity. V

Sub-clause (2).--S1ight verbal changes have beeni inade
for precision. E

Existing section , 58G (1). consists of two parts. The
earlier portion, exempting the accumulated balanc from
super-tax, has alreaw been accounted for in the t, as
the exemption has been treated as an exclusion fro total
income, common to income-fax and super-tax'. The latter part enacts the exception in respect of nual
accretions up to 1st "April 1 3. That has been repr duced
in the draft with two draft ng changes. First, the ords
"which is not included in his total income" have been added
by way of introduction. Secondly, instead of the e ' ting
negative form "except .......... ..", a positive form of angu-
age has been used to emphasise the 'liability to p y the
amount referred to inthe provision. , . --'1 Cf. notes to clause 104. _ I
' Sec notes to clause :02 (2). ' Vida clause 297 (2). '
' See notes to draft cluée 296. The provision in question was enacted only to make
an adjustment necessitated by the course of legislation
(see note below), and hence the aspect of payment receives
a higher emphasis compared with the aspect of liability. The Provident Funds Chapter was introduced in 1929.
Section 58E provided for the inclusion of the annual ac-
cretion in the total income. Section 58F exempted the
annual accretion from income-tax, subject to certain con-
ditions. Though the intention of the legislature was, thus,
to assess the annual accretion to super-tax, by the omission
of section 58F from the sections not applicable to super-tax
mentioned in section 58 , the provisions of section 58F be-
came applicable to super-tax. The annual accretion, there-
fore, remained exempt from super-tax also up to 1933. The legislature noticed this defect in 1933 and rectiﬁed
it by including section 58F in section 58 . Simultaneously
section 58G (1) was introduced and 58G (2) was made not
applicable to super-tax. The resulting position is that though
the accumulated balance is exempt from payment of super-
tax, the employee receiving the accumulated balance has
to make good the super-tax that he would have paid bet-
ween 1929 and 1933. '

Notes to clause 298

Existing section 58H has been embodied here. The sec-
tion provides that at the time of payment of the accumulat-
ed balance. the trustees shall deduct therefrom any income--
tax payable under section 58G (3). So far as this require---
ment is concerned. the words "in cases where section ....... ..
[58G (3)] applies," have been added in the draft, to make
it clear that deduction is permissible only where the liabi-
lity for payment of tax has arisen. The existing section further provides for the deduc-
tion of any income-tax and super-tax payable on an em--
ployee's total income as determined under section 58J (3).
This requirement does not appear to be intelligible. Section
58J (3) does not really apply at the time of payment of
accumulated balance to the employee and is conﬁned to
the taxation, at the time of recognition, of sums transferred
to the employee's account in the recognised provident

fund. This requirement has, therefore, been omitted in the
draft. Notes to clause 299

Existing section 58J is incorporated in this clause. Sub-
section (4) of that section has been incorporated in the
clause dealing with relaxation of conditions'. No other comments are needed. Notes to clause 300
No comments are needed. 'Compare draft clause 29: (5). 31-] Law Gom.l58. N-btes to clause 301
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 302
N 0 comments are needed. Notes to clause 303
No comments are needed. . Notes to clause 304
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 305

"Recognised provident fund".--No change' has 9, been
made in the existing deﬁnition. Section 9 of the Emp oyees Provident Funds Act 1952 (19 of 1952) provides that pro-
vident fund established under a scheme under th Act
shall be deemed to be a recognised provident fund f r the Income-tax Act . It does not appear necessary to repe t this
provision in the Income-tax Act , since some of the rovi-
sions in this Chapter (for example, withdrawal) m not
in terms apply to such funds. '

"Employer".--In existing ection 58A, clause (h), the
words "maintaining the provident fund for the beneﬁt of
his or its employees" are applicable not only to the "indi-
vidual" referred to 'm item (ii) but also to the -"Hindu
undivided farn-i1y,_co1I'1pany" e_tc., referred to in item [i_). To
make this clear, the substance of these words has been
placed in the beginning of the deﬁnition. Other deﬁnit'ions.--Do not need any comments. CHAPTER XXV 
APPROVED SUPERANNUATION 'FUNDS
Notes to clause 306
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 307

Sub-clause (1).----In the opening lines, it has bee pro-
vided that the superannuation fund must satisfy no only
the conditions set out in the section but also the con 'tions
to be prescribed by rules to; made by the Centra --- Gov-
ernment. This additibn has 'bgen made to secure nifor-
mity' with the corresponding provision relating to ecog-
nised provident funds. [See existing section 58C(1),,open-
ing lines]. §

_ Sub-clause' (2).--The» proviso to existing section 58P
1S merely clariﬁcatory. It has been embodied in sub-«lclause
4 ' : 'Of. note: to clause 3x7,§_"Gcneral"§.
« l '

S'

47': ployee. _ '

Existing section 58R, relating to exemption in respect
of superannuation funds, combines a number of provisions.
These provisions embody exemptions falling under various
categories. For example, the opening lines direct that in-
come derived from investments of such funds shall be "ex-
empt from payment of income-tax"; while the subsequent
lines provide that "any sum paid by an employer by way
of contribution shall .......... ..be deducted in computing the
income .......... ..". It is obvious that the ﬁrst exemption is
in the nature of an exclusion from total income, while the
second is a deduction for expenses. In order to bring out
clearly the nature of the various exemptions contained in
existing section 58R, its various portions have. in the draft.
been allocated to various clauses according to' the topic
dealt with, thus- (i) the opening lines relating to income from. invest-
ment etc., have been embodied in this clause.
That provision applies in respect of super-tax
also under existing section 58 . The /provision is
more in the nature of exclusion from total
income and should be treated on the same lines
as income received by tngtiees on behalf of a
recognised provident fund,é_$ee existing section
4 , sub-section (3), item (ix) ;,g _i _ . (ii) the middle portion of section 58R, main para,
dealing with sums paid by employer, has been
placed in a separate clause' ; (iii) the last portion of section 58R, main para, has
been dealt with in another clause' with certain
drafting changes which are discussed below ; the
ﬁrst Proviso to section 58R has also been incor-
porated in that clause'; (iv) the second Proviso relates to employer's contri-
butions and has been placed along with the mid-
dle portion of the main para'. Section 58R says 2 "any sum paid by an employer or
an employee by way of contribution ............. ..shall in the
case of an employer be deducted in computing his income
.......... ..and in the case of an employee be treated for
all the purposes of this Act as if it were a sum to which
the provisions of section 15 apply; Provided that no such exemption shall be allowable to ,
an employee in respect of any sum which is not an ordinary
annual contribution." _

s The existing language, at ﬁrst reading, would mean
that both the sum paid by the employer and the sum 'paid
by the employee are to be allowed as a deduction in the
case of an employer, and that similarly both the sums are
to be allowed exemption in the case of an employee. 'But.
obviously, this is not the intention. Only a sum paidby
the employer is to be allowed as a deduction in the em-
ployer's assessment, and similarly only a sum paid by
the employee is to be allowed deduction in the employee's
assessment. Since the case of the employer and the case
of the employee have, in the draft, been treated at differ-
ent places, the need for any clariﬁcation does not arise. Notes to clause 310
See notes to the proceeding clause'. Notes to clause 311. The words "in the previous year" have been added for
the sake of precision, and the place of the first Proviso to
existing Section 58R, is, in the draft, taken by the words
at the end "in so far as such sum is an ordinary annual
contribution". The general scheme of existing section 58R has already
been dealt with'. 'See draft clause 310. 'See draft clause 31 1. 'Vida draft clause 3:0, Prov. 'Clause 309. '
, 'See note: to clause 309'.' 479 Notes to clause 312

Existing section 58S (1) provides that where any con-
tributions are "repaid", to an employee, the amounts so
repaid shall be deemed, for the purpose of income-tax, the
income of the employee for that year. The words "repaid"
would, at ﬁrst sight, seem to suggest that it is only the em-
ployee's contributions that are intended to be covered by
these words. But it seems that the employer's contribu-
tions should also be covered, because there does not appear
to be any reason for excluding employer's contributions;
the word "repaid" was probably used in a wider sense. The sub-section does not make any exception for con-
tributions repaid on death or termination of employment.
Existing section 58S (2) however shows that payment of
contributions to an employee on death or termination of
employment does not come within the scope of this section.
Tl;le two sub-sections should run in harmony with each
ot er. The language of the provision has, therefore. been
altered on these lines. - The words "of that year" have been replaced by the
words "of the previous year in which it is so paid to him".
for precision. Notes to clause 313

As pointed out in the notes to the clause correspond-
ing to existing section 58S (1). section 58S is intended to
apply to contributions both of the employees and of the
employer'. The necessary change has been made in this
clause also. Notes to clause 314
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 315
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 316

Existing section 58V has been embodied here with the
following changes :-- ' '

(1) It has been made clear that the information is to

be supplied by the trustee to the Income-tax Offi- cer within "-not less than twenty-one days". This

will avoid the raising of any question as to what
is meant by the words "within twenty-one days". -(2) Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this section. which ela-
borate the particulars that will be required by
the Income-tax Oﬂicer, have been omitted, as the
rule-making power now conferred" enables rules
to be made on these matters. . 'See note: to Clause 312. 'Vida draft clause 317. Notes to clause 317

General.----This is a new clause and is intended to efive
effect to the following recommendations of the Incom tax
Investigation Commission' :----- i

"70. If all the requirements of section 58-P are s tis-
ﬁed, it is doubtful if the Central Board of Revenue ,can
refuse to recognise a superannuation fund. The powe to
impose conditions would probably have reference onl to
the three eventualities mentioned in the proviso andanot
in other circumstances independent of these contingenc es. The provisions of the Income-tax Law in respect of
superannuation funds should, as far as possible, be bro ght
into line with those relating torProvident Funds. It is im-
cult to see why the power given to the Central Govern ent
to make rules as in Section 58L (2) should not be repeated in
the case _of Superannuation Funds. This lack of power to
make rules is a serious drawback in the scheme of Super-
annuation Funds under the Income-tax Act . of which unfair
use can be made". i . 1I.'I.I.C. Report, 1948, page 219, for detailed discussion, see para-
graphs 170-171 of that Report. a '5

'Cf. Report of the Income-' Investi lion Commission, para. 17:, o ; ura-
tion beginning with "Secondly . . .''at pp? :74. . ~. ._. ~ 481 CHAPTER XXVI
MISCELLANEOUS
Notes to clause 319

_ This is new. It seems desirable to make it clear that
income once charged to tax shouldnot again be charged
to tax in the hands of the same person. This safeguard
seems to be necessary, in view of the fact that an item of
income may be chargeable either on the basis of its ac-
crual or on the basis of its having arisen or on the basis
of its actual receipt, within a particular period. In other
words, the chargeable periods may vary according to the
basis on which the tax is sought to be assessed. '

Notes to clause 320

It has been made clear that even in the case of a local
authority or company, service may be made on its princi-
pal officer. The deﬁnition of "principal oﬁicer" is applicable
to local authorities and companies also. Notes to clause 321

Sub--clause (1).'--This is new. Since the family will
not be in existence after partition, a provision for service
of notices in respect of proceedings pertaining to the
disrupted family appears to be necessary and has been in-
corporated in this sub--clause. The Supreme Court has held'
that in such cases the notice need not be iven to all mem-
bers. This view has been followed in the draft, treating,
however, a notice under section 34 in a different manner'. This draft sub--clause will apply only where an order re-
cording a ﬁnding of total partition is passed. In cases of par-
tial partition, the family continues in respect of undivided
property; (if the partition is partial as regarding persons,
the remaining members will continue' joint); and notices
can be served in the usual manner, and, no special provi-
sion is necessary to the effect that the notice in such cases
must be served on all the members of the family. (In
cases where some of the members went out of the family,
the members so separated must of course be served. But
this need not be provided for). Sub-clause (2).--This is new and is 'intended to provide

for the service of notice in the case of a dissolved ﬁrm or
association. I

Notes to clause 322

This clause does not need any comments. . 1 Lax-mi.Nara1'n Bhadam' v. crr, (igsx) 2'0 rrg. 594(sc). b .
1 Cf. I. T, I. C. Report, i94.8,,pagd§ 155, 351, 352. .- . \

_-. Report 482 Notes to clause 323

This is new. It is desirable that documents placed on
the ﬁle of an Income-tax authority should bear proper en-
dorsement so that their tracing and identiﬁcation may be
facilitated whenever a reference to them becomes neces-
sary. It is also desirable that where an Income-tax autho-
rity bases any order on any document. the document shall
expressly be referred to in the order, so that there may
be no difficulty in understanding the basis of the order.
The draft clause is intended to achieve this object. Notes to clause 324

Sub-clause (1)--does not need any comments, except
that existing section 61(1) and section 61(2) have, in the
draft, been broken up so as to separate the details regard-
ing various authorised representatives from the main»pro--
vision authorising their appearance. Sub-clause (2)--The various kinds of persons who can
appear as authorised representatives have been listed in
this sub-clause. Items (i) and (ii)?-do not require any comments. Item (iii)----relating to lawyers has been redrafted so as
to simplify the language. This 'category has been restrict-
ed to legal practitioners who can appear in a civil court.
(Persons already in practice'will not, of course, be affedted). As to item (iv), see notes below, under "Explanation". The right of persons entitled to appear under the exist-
ing Act' will be preserved b item (12), even though the
persons are not qualiﬁed un er the new Act. But it has
been made clear that this right is available only where
such persons were actually in practice before the new Act
came into force'. '

Explanation.--~The deﬁnition of "accountant" has been
brought into line with the Chartered Accountants Act . 1949.
Persons who are neither Chartered Accountants nor autho-
rised to audit the accounts of companies under section
226(2) of the Companies Act, 1956, are proposed to be ex- cluded from the deﬁnition. Existingsection 61(2) item' (iii)- enables a member of an association of accountants recog-
nised in this behalf by the Central Board of Revenue to
appear as an authorised representative. It is proposed to
restrict the right, however, to chartered accountants? etc.
(Persons already in practice at the time of the commence-
ment of the new Act will not of course be affected). Sub-clause (3)----does not need any comments. \

1The abolition of this cat ory was ecormmcnded even by the Income-tax

Investigation Commission aid: _ts Report 19418) Para 240 page 107. The 'l'aza- (ion Emiuixy Commission, lmwever w 4 not in favour ofany change. cc its
( 953-54), Vol. II, &.i;XII, pararﬂ-50. ' 483 Sub-clause (4)----Under existing section 61(3) the power
to take disciplinary action against persons "other than law-
yers or accountants subject to their respective professional
bodies", is vested in the Commissioner. It is proposed to
transfer these powers to an authority whose constitution
would be laid down in the rules'. The present provision
authorising appeals to the Central Board of Revenue will,
of course, continue. '

Sub--clause (5)--is merely a transitional provision.
Notes to clause 325
No comments are needed. _ Notes to clause 326
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 327
No comments are needed. Notes to clause 328

The word "year" has been replaced by words "assess-
ment year" for precision. In addition to income-tax, super- mencement of the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act, 1. Of. the Amendment Bill that was introduced in 1951 (which was allowed
to lapse), printed in (1951) 28 I.T.R. 46; 47,

Vida notes to draft clause 324 (4) -4' 484 1939, this power will not be exercisable except for the pur-
pose _of rescinding exemption, etc. already made. T 'e re-
sult is, that no new exemption etc. can now be gr, nted

under section 60 , sub-section .(1). In view of this, this pro- vision has been omitted in' the draft. So far as exemptions already granted are concerned,
the question of their retention for assessments under the
new Act will have to be considered by the Govern'ment,.
when the transitional provisions are drafted (Cf. note re-
garding repeal etc. below). i

So far as assessments for any period prior to the, com-
mencement of the new Act are concerned, exemptions al-
ready granted under section 60(1) should, of course, con-
tinue to have effect, and thepower to cancel them under Section 60(3) should also continue (Cf. Note re:~repea1 etc.

elow). . A

Note on Repeal and transitional provisions

(At ﬁrst, draft clauses on repeal and transitional pro-
vision were prepared in the Commission, but later it was
felt that it need not be done in the Commission and might
be left to the Ministry of Law.) . When the new Act comes into force, the existing Act.
i.e., 1922 Act will, of course, cease to apply. While d ' fting
the repeal clause, it would be desirable to consider hicl1_
of the following courses should be adopted.- (1) Absolute repeal of the existing Act----This my not
be feasible, since it .would necessitate innu rable
saving provisions and' may cause inconve ience
also. '

(2) Formal repeal of the existing Act with a pr ision
that so far as the assessments etc. for asse ment
years prior to the commencement of the ne Act
are concerned, the existing Act will contin e to-
apply. This seems to'be .the method adop ed in section 13 of the Finance Act, 1950 (25 of 19 ) and section 6 of the Taxation Laws (Extens on to
J ammu and Kashmir) Act 1954 (41 of 1954.) hich,
while repealing the old laws, preserve the ol laws
for the purpose of "ldvy, assessment and coll ction" to Jammu and Kashmir, save the old law for levy, assess--
ment and collection of tax etc. The UK. Act saves the old.
law for tax. The Australian Act saves the old law "for all. purp,-,5es"'.]

(3) Another alternative would be, not to "repeal" the
existing Act, but to provide that it "shall cease to apply".,
(A clause framed on these lines would not of course, attract
the provisions relating to repeal in the General Clauses Act and they will have to be speciﬁcally incorporated in the-
repeal clause). A precedent for this will be found in section 130 of
the Canadian Income-tax Act which, instead of effecting a
speciﬁc repeal, merely provides that provisions of. the In-
come-tax War Act (1'..e.' the earlier Income-tax Act of
Canada) "are not applicable to taxation years after the 1948. )3]

Taxation Year . -- Title 1, sub title A, section 1 , U.S.A.»Internal Revenue-
Code, (U.S.A. Statutes 1934 Part I p. 683) provides that the
provisions of the new Act shall not apply to assessment
years commencing prior to 1st January, 1934, and income-
tax for assessment years prior to that date shall remain
unaffected by the new Act and shall continue to be govern-
ed by the applicable provisions of the old Act. If this third alternative is adopted, notiﬁcations and
orders etc. can be issued under the old Act on all matters
in respect of assessment years prior to the commencement
of the new Act. (It may be stated here that the repeal clauses in section 53 of the Indian ,Income-tax Act, 1918 (7 of'
1918), section 8 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1920 (19 of
1920) and section 68 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11
of 1922) might not be very helpful in drafting the repeal
clause. These Acts straight-away repeal the old Act and.
add that such repeal shall not affect the liability of any
person to pay any sum due under the old Act.) 1. Hence, assessments in Canada still I tinue to be made and disputes-. A

litigated andunder the old Act in respect of

1948 l;'l00!nC. Vida Plaxton,
Income-tax Law, 1949, Second Supplement. : é 486 Transitional provisions

A number of orders, notiﬁcations etc. issued under the
existing Act, will have to be continued for the purposes of
the new Act, until the appropriate action is taken under the
new Act. The actual form of the clause on the subject
would, of course, depend on how the repeal clause is'fram-
ed. If the usual repeal clause is adopted, section 24 of the
General Clauses Act would have the effect of continuing
appointments, notiﬁcations, orders, schemes, rules, forms.
'bye-laws etc. But still a number of other things which do
not fall under section 24 of the General Clauses Act would
have to be dealt with. If straight-away repeal is not effect-
ed, the continuation clause will, of course, have to men-
tion orders, notiﬁcations and, rules etc. also. - It may be necessary to make some provisions as to
how far the Act is retrospective. Section 129(6) of the
Canadian Income-tax Act, may be compared. . Provision for ensuring that income taxed under the
existing Act is not taxed again under the new Act might
also be necessary. Since the Tribunal is proposed to be abolished, it may
be necessary to make elaborate provisions in respect of
'proceedings pending under the existing Act before the
Tribunal. These proceedings may include not only appeals,
but also applications for making a reference under section
66 of the existing Act. It will also be necessary to provide
how references pending in the High Court under section 66 or applications pending in the High Court under Section -66(2) or section 66(3) should be dealt with, and also as to
the authority which should carry out the decisions passed
by the High Court on these references. Where an applica-
tion under section 66(1) has been rejected before the com-
mencement of the new Act, it would also be necessary to
'provide that the assessee or the Commissioner maylapply
'to the High Court as regards the merits or as regards the
issue of limitation. Provision will also have to be! made
as regards decisions given by the Commissioner or _A.A.C.
(before the new Act) in respect of which an appeal: could
have been ﬁled to the Tribunal if it had not been abcﬁished. The usual clause relating to power to remove d_ilﬁcul--
ties in achieving thetransition or giving effect to the pro-
visions of the Act will also have to be embodied. Notes to First Schedule

Rule 1

The existing Schedule uses the expression "yea1"" and
'deﬁnes it in rule 5(1). In the draft, however, the expres-
sion "previous year" has been used. The deﬁnition of
"previous year" as-adopted in the draft' deals speciﬁcally
with insurance business, so that the expression "pr eding
year" need not be used in the substantive provisi ns. ' ' " ' . l

'Draft clause 5. Instead of the expression "income proﬁts and gains",
the shorter expression "profits and gains" has been used, on
the lines of the existing section 10 . Rule 2

Slight changes have been made to simplify the lan-
guage. For example, the existing Schedule, rule 2 proviso,
clauses (a), (b) and (c), repeat the word "plus". This has
been replaced by the words "aggregate of the following". Rule 3
The following drafting changes have been made:---- 1. The ﬁrst proviso to the existing Schedule, rule 3(a),
has been omitted, as it was applicable only to the "first such
computation" made under the rule. 2. The second proviso to the existing Schedule, rule
3(a) says that if any amount reserved for policy holders is
not paid to or expended on behalf of the policy holders,
then the proportion previously allowed as a deduction is
to be treated as a part of the surplus. The proportion has
been described as "one--half or four-ﬁfths as the case may
be". The reference to "one-half" in the Act is not intelli-
gible on first reading, because the deduction allowed is four-
ﬁfths under the main para of existing Schedule, rule 3(a).
The text of the rule. as it stood before the amendment made
by Act 25 of 1953, contained the words "one~half" and the
intention apparently was to cover also cases where a deduc-
tion was allowed before the amendment of 1953. Ordinarily speaking, by the time the new Act comes in
force cases of deductions under the existing Act as it stood
before 1953 will have been exhausted. However, as a.
matter of caution, the reference to."one-half" has been
retained in the draft. The words "under this Act or under the Indian Income-
tax Act, 1922" have, however. been added in the draft, in-
order to deal with cases where a deduction under the exist-
ing Act is to be adjusted in the surplus under the new Act. 3. Existingrule 3, clause (b), uses the Words "securi-
ties or other assets". But the appropriate word seems to
be "investments"; that is the word used in the existing
Schedule, rule 6, last sentence. The draft, thenefore, uses
the word "investments". 4. Existing Schedule, rule 3, clause (c), has been incor-
porated in the draft sub-clause (c), with minor drafting
changes made for the sake of precision. Rule 4
This does not need any detailed comments. 4.88
Rate 5

The changes made are all of a drafting nature, and do
not affect the substance of the existing law and practice. Para a ).--The existing Schedule, Rule 6, says that the
balance disclosed in the accounts is to be adjusted so as
to exclude from it any expenditure "other than expendi-
ture that may ............. .. under section 10 .... .. be allowed
for in computing the proﬁts etc. of a business". It is only
expenditure that is excluded; deduction for depreciation is
not, it seems, to be questioned, and must be allowed as
entered in the accounts'. Para (a) is intended to make this
clear. I . (It does not appear to be necessary to make any simi-
lar speciﬁc provision for deductions in the nature oﬁ loss on
resale of assets etc., since disputes regarding the quantum
of such deductions are not likely to arise frequently). See also notes t9 Para (b) below. Para (b).--Depreciation having been providedgfor in
sub-clause (a), it becomes possible to use the wide ording
adopted in this sub-clause, viz., that all "deductitxls" not
allowed under section 10 should be added back. The additions made by draft paragraphs (a) and (b)
could have been made in the draft for life insurance also,
but it has not been considered necessary to make such
changes there, for two reasons; ﬁrst, the existing; rule 3
is lengthy enough,.and secondly, since the bulk bf life
insurance business will now be carried on by the Life In-
surance Corporation, a' statutory body, the need for any -detailed clariﬁcations will not be felt. :