PER RAJESH  K. ARYA, MEMBER

 

                   The above captioned appeals have arisen out of the common order dated 10.05.2023 passed by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-II, U.T., Chandigarh (in short the District Commission only), whereby consumer complaint bearing no.526 of 2019 stood partly allowed by it, against the appellants/opposite parties as under:- The opposite party no.1/appellant (BSNL)  and opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) have come up in  FA No.204 of 2023 titled as Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited  Versus Kiranpreet Kaur and  others and also FA No.148 of 2023 titled as Bank of India Versus Kiranpreet Kaur and others with a prayer to set aside the impugned. On the other hand, the complainants/appellants have come up in FA No.123 of 2023 titled as Kiranpreet Kaur and another Versus  Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and anr.  seeking modification and enhancement of the relief awarded by the District Commission in the impugned order. The District Commission noted down the following facts of the consumer complaint:- The Complainant No. 2, immediately made a request to OP No. 1, to deactivate the SIMs, who assured the same will be deactivated immediately and only original SIM will be put in operation but neither the duplicate SIM card was deactivated nor the original SIM was put into operation with that being fed up, the Complainant decided to stop using the services of OP No. 1, but before surrendering the complainants thought of updating the bank account with another number. On 23.08.2017, when Complainants visited the Patiala Branch of OP No. 2 to update, another number, then told by the officials at the Patiala Branch of OP No. 2, that in order to update another number, Complainants have to visit the home Branch at Balachaur and complainants came to know illegal transfer, of Rs.7,99,000/-, through RTGS and IMPS from their account. Thereafter, the Complainants were shocked as their hard earned money has been illegally siphoned off from their bank account due to negligence and callous attitude of the OPs left with no the alternative complainants visited their home branch at Balachaur, i.e. OP No. 2, wherein Branch Manager confirmed the above mentioned illegal transactions and written complaint dated 23.08.2017 was given to the Branch Manager of OP No. 2, which was duly acknowledged under his seal and signature. Complainants also made request for lodging of FIR, but at this juncture Branch Manager of OP No. 2, initially told, that lodging of FIR, can seriously jeopardize the plans of Complainants of shifting to United Kingdom but on persistence, he assured that as the bank is also aggrieved by illegal transactions in question, so he will write to his superiors for lodging FIR, in the matter, through bank. Thereafter, when nothing concrete happened in matter, Complainant No. 2 made a written request dated 31.08.2017 (Annexure C-6) to provide full details of the illegal transactions been made from his account on 21.08.2017. At this following details were provided by the Bank Manager and the same are as under:- Written reply filed by opposite parties no.1 and 2 was noted down by the District Commission as under:- In the rejoinder filed, the complainants reiterated all the averments contained in their complaint and controverted those of the opposite parties. The contesting parties led evidence in support of their case. The District Commission after considering the rival contentions of the contesting parties and on going through the material available on record, partly allowed the consumer complaint, in the manner stated above. Hence these cross appeals. We have heard the rival contentions of the parties and have also gone through the entire record of these cases. The moot question which falls for consideration in these cases is as to whether the appellants-Kiranpreet Kaur and Amarpreet Singh (in FA No.123 of 2023 are entitled to get any relief from this Commission, over and above the compensation for mental agony and harassment already awarded to them by the District Commission, suffered by them at the hands of the respondents-BSNL and Bank of India, qua withdrawal of the amount of Rs.7,99,000/-. It is not in dispute that the appellants-Kiranpreet Kaur and Amarpreet Singh have opened joint account bearing No. 634610110000782 with opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) for the requirement of Embassy purposes on 05.04.2017. It is also not disputed that  complainant No.2 also got issued a SIM Card/Mobile No. 94639-95189, through the services of opposite party no.1/ (BSNL), after submitting requisite documents. It is also an admitted case that the complainants got linked the above  said mobile number with the above said joint account opened with opposite party no.2 (Bank of India for embassy purposes having limited transactions before depositing Rs.7,94,000/- till 13.06.2017. The Mobile bearing No. 94639-95189, was lined with joint account No.   634610110000782 and as such, all the OTPs and other bank messages used to come on this number. It is hardly any disputed that on 19.08.2017, the SIM Card/Mobile bearing No.94639-95189 stopped working and complainant No. 2, called the customer care office of opposite party no.1/ (BSNL), but the matter could be resolved only at BSNL exchange office of OP No. 1, at Chandigarh. However, later on it was informed by opposite party no.1/ (BSNL)that duplicate SIM, has been used on the request of complainant No.2, yet, there is nothing on record that any such request had been made by complainant No. 2 or complainant No. 1 for issuance of duplicate SIM card. As such, it came to the notice of the complainants that  duplicate SIM card has been issued by opposite party no.1/ (BSNL) to the third party without even properly verifying the documents.  It is very important to mention here that from the bare perusal of record of the District Commission it reveals that as per the guidelines dated 01.08.2016, Annexure C-2, having been issued by the Government of India, Ministry of  Communications, New Delhi, the officer of BSNL is duty-bound to match the copy of proof of identity with the original document and before activating the new SIM, he shall verify it with the documents of proof of identity submitted by the subscriber as to whether they are matching with record available or not. However, in the present case, the application form, Annexure C-10, submitted by some third party had the following discrepancies i.e. the application form is without date;  no photograph is pasted upon the same; total mismatch of the signatures of the appellants/complainants when compared to the admitted signatures which are part of record of the OP No.1 in the shape of original customer application form which is Annexure C-3;  even the name and address of the applicant is not mentioned in the application form; the reasons for issuance of duplicate SIM card are not mentioned in the application form; the Aadhaar card submitted by the third party is different from the Aadhaar card Submitted by the original applicants (Consumer/Complainant No.2);  Aadhaar card number submitted by third-party (Annexure C-11) is 503797686392 where as Aadhaar card number of complainant no.2 is 312578202121; the year of birth on Annexure C 11 submitted by third-party is 1972, whereas year of birth of complainant is 1978; not only photographs on the copies of Aadhaar cards are different but also addresses are different; even the difference of signatures of the third party and the complainant no.2 is visible with the naked eye. Opposite party no.1/(BSNL)  failed to notice the above discrepancies which amounts to deficiency in service and negligence. Similarly, as far as opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) is concerned, it is clearly coming out from the findings of the Banking Ombudsman, Reserve Bank of India, Sector 17, Chandigarh  vide its order dated 14 November 2018 (Annexure C-14), that the bank failed to do justice with the costumer; CVO had also not done justice by doing detailed investigation to arrive at any conclusion based on facts and details; the internet banking of the bank needs a lot of refinement as it creates more confusion; KYC from United Bank was not obtained which is a serious issue; suspicious transaction reporting, as applicable and that the Bank was not at all cooperating in solving the issues and even basic information asked for was not presented and passed on to OBO. It has also been opined by the Banking Ombudsman that even the instructions on internet banking was not properly examined. It (Banking Ombudsman) further observed that the bank lodged complaint with Police on 30-10-2018 which it could have done immediately after knowledge of incidence i.e. on reporting by the complainant to the bank on 23-08-2017. It was further observed that additional details pertaining to issuance of duplicate SIM not obtained by the bank. Further huge time lapse was observed in bank's follow up with United Bank of India to get KYC details and it seemed, still, it has not been obtained. The Banking Ombudsman also observed that the  bank could not validate with its classification that no amount can be transferred from the internet as the requirements are not uniform for transactions on existing authorized devices and a new device, type of transaction, e.g. NEFT/RTGS, vis-à-vis inter-bank transfer/IMPS etc. It was further observed by the Banking Ombudsman that the bank has not specified whether transactions on 21-08-2017 were done from a new device or from an already activated existing device to validate its point. Further the view of the bank's CVO that enough security standard available in regard to Net Banking facility provided by the bank was observed to be not supported with Net Banking Security Standards of the bank in a detail. It was further observed that the bank has also not mentioned, how and when the customer opted for Star Token Application and how was it activated by the customer. It was further observed by the Banking Ombudsman that the bank mentioned that the customer what is the user of Star Token Application, which adds one more step to security of the banks, internet banking and Startoken Password/Pin was required to login into the Startoken Application but the bank did not furnish the process of flow from login to transaction along with its internet banking policy in support of its claim. Thus, under these circumstances, it can easily be said that even opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) is also deficient in providing service and negligent.  The District Commission was also right in holding so. However, we are surprised to note that though the District Commission has very fairly come to the conclusion that both the opposite parties i.e. opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) and opposite party no.1 (BSNL)  are deficient in providing service and negligent in the matter, as a result of which, the amount of Rs.7,99,000/- had been illegally withdrawn by some third party from the accounts of the complainant, yet, the District Commission fell into a grave error in not ordering refund of the said amount of Rs.7,99,000/- to the complainants, over and above the compensation awarded by  it. Moreover, the complainants have claimed an amount of Rs.2 Lakhs as compensation on account of harassment and mental agony whereas the District Commission has awarded an amount of Rs.3 Lakhs instead. In our view, there is error in awarding compensation of Rs.3 Lakhs, which should have been Rs.2 Lakhs. To this extent also, the order of the District Commission needs modification. For the reasons recorded above, FA No.123 of 2023 titled as Kiranpreet Kaur and another Versus  Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and anr.  filed by the appellants/complainants stands partly allowed. The order impugned passed by the District Commission stands modified. The opposite party no.1 (BSNL)  and also opposite party no.2 (Bank of India) in consumer complaint bearing no.526 of 2019 are directed, jointly and severally, as under:-