Petitioner Sanjay Bhargav has approached this Court by way of

present petition under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

for grant of regular bail to him in case FIR No.179 dated 27.09.2017 under Sections 380 , 403 , 406 , 420 , 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 66 of IT Act, 2000 registered at Police Station Sector 53, Gurugram,

during pendency of the trial. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner

has falsely been implicated in the case, whereas he was not involved in the

alleged commission of offence. Petitioner was neither named in the FIR nor

any role has been attributed to him. He has been implicated during course

 1 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:49 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -2- of the investigation. As per the allegations in the FIR, it is alleged that the

complainant is known as one of the India's leading E-Wallet Companies

through its flagship brand namely www.mobiKwik.com (website) and the

complainant provided a platform where different consumers can at the same

time have access to a variety of services. A mobile application Mobikwik

Wallet was developed, whereby consumers of the complainant Company

could directly browse through the products listed by different merchants on

its platform and can at the same time pay for said product or service using

their wallet balance. The complainant came across with some fraudulent

transactions during reconciliation of its account and came to know that

accused persons have taken benefit of a technical glitch in the complainant's

software and thereby transferred the amount to their account without any

legal right, which was exceeding the amount lying in their wallet. The

present FIR was registered of allegations of cheating, theft, criminal

misappropriation and criminal breach of trust of ` 19 crores against many

persons including the petitioner. Learned counsel further submits that even

the story appears to be concocted by the officials of Mobikwik Wallet

Company in order to conceal their own lapse in not maintaining proper E-

accounts of the Company resulting into transfer of certain amount to the

account of different persons who are using the Mobikwik application.

Learned counsel also submits that except the petitioner and 3/4 other

persons, no other person has been arrested or arrayed as accused and no

official of the Company has been held liable till date. Learned counsel

further submits that the fraud of such level cannot occur without connivance

 2 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -3- of the officials of the Company. The overall management and maintenance

of E-wallet vests with the Company and the petitioner was not in a position

to tamper with E-wallet of the Company to transfer such huge amount as

alleged in the FIR. There is no other case against the petitioner or his family

members and he is not having any criminal background. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the

challan has been presented before the competent Court and charges have

also been framed. All the prosecution witnesses are official witnesses and

there is no possibility that the petitioner may tamper with the evidence or

influence the witnesses. No purpose would be served by keeping the

petitioner in custody. Learned counsel also submits that the petitioner has

deposited an amount of ` 1,0,00,000/- in the account of the Company just to

show his bona fide and `8,00,000/- stands freezed in his PNB account.

Nothing is to be recovered from the petitioner. The case is based on

documentary evidence and all the documents are either in the police custody

or with the Company. The allegations as levelled in the FIR are yet to be

established by way of scientific evidence by proving that the technical glitch

occurred in the software of the Company, of which, unlawful and wrongful

benefit was taken by other persons while transferring the amount into their

accounts. Even the intention or lapse on the part of officials of the

complainant Company can be proved during evidence before the trial Court.

Nothing is to be recovered from the petitioner. Learned counsel also

submits that one co-accused namely Tara Chand Bhargav has approached

this Court by way of filing CRM-M No.3460 of 2018 and he was granted

 3 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -4- anticipatory bail which was made absolute vide order dated 05.04.2018. The

bail petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed by the Court below

without mentioning any sufficient reason and by stating that second petition

was not maintainable, whereas it was filed after the changed circumstances.

Learned counsel also submits that allegations are of economic offences and

the offences are triable by Magistrate. Petitioner is in custody since

08.11.2017. The allegations are matter of evidence which shall be tested by

the trial Court during course of trial. In support of his arguments, learned

counsel for the petitioner has relied upon judgments of Hon'ble Supreme

Court in cases Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI Criminal Appeal No.2178 of 2011

(Arising out of SLP (Crl) No.5650 of 2011) decided on 23.11.2011, Manoranjana Sinh @ Gupta Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation 2017( 1)

R.C.R. (Criminal) 1025, Sandeep Jain Vs. National Capital Territory of

Delhi rep.by Secretary, Home Deptt. 2000(1) R.C.R. (Criinal) 517, Sheikh

Ayub Vs. State of M. P. 2006(2) R.C.R. (Criminal) 63, Shyam Singh Vs.

State through C.B.I. 2006(9) SCC 169, judgment of this Court in case Lalit

Khurana Vs. State of Punjab CRM-M No.18477 of 2018 decided on

20.07.2018 and judgment of Bombay High Court in case Vyomesh Shah

and others Vs. State of Maharashtra 2018(1) R.C.R. (Criminal) 791. Learned State counsel has opposed the submissions made by

learned counsel for the petitioner on the ground that huge amount is

involved in the present case and the petitioner may abscond and may misuse

concession of bail in case he is released on bail. He also submits that serious

offence has been committed by him. 4 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -5- Learned counsel for the complainant has also vehemently

opposed the submissions made by learned counsel for the petitioner and

submits that the petitioner has played active role in the commission of

offence and the amount was transferred even to the account of other persons

through him and does not deserve concession of bail. Heard arguments of learned counsel for the petitioner and

learned State counsel as well as learned counsel for the complainant. I have

also perused the contents of the FIR and other documents on the file. No doubt personal liberty is precious valve of our Constitution

of India. Deprivation of personal freedom must be founded on the most

serious considerations relevant to the welfare objectives of society specified

in the Constitution. Even the accused persons are entitled to freedom and

every opportunity to look after his case and to establish his innocence. A

person, who is on bail, has a better chance to prepare and present his case

than the person, who remanded in custody. An accused person, who enjoys

freedom, is in a much better position to look after his case and properly

defend himself than if he was in custody. Accordingly, it is stated that grant

of bail is the rule and refusal is the exception as stated in judgments

rendered by Hon'ble the Apex Court in Anil Mahajan vs. Commissioner of

Customs and another , 84 ( 2000) DLT 854, Gurcharan Singh and others

Vs. State (Delhi Administration ), AIR 1978 Supreme Court 179 and Gudikanti Narasimhulu and others Vs. Public Prosecutor , AIR 1978

Supreme Court 729. Delhi High Court in H.B. Chatruvedi vs. C.B.I. , 2011(6) RCR

 5 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -6- (Criminal) 2402, has summarized the legal position under the similar

circumstances as follows: - 6 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -7- Procedure Code. But the said discretion should be exercised
 judiciously. (g) The powers of the Court of Session or the High Court to grant
 bail under Section 439(1) of Criminal Procedure Code are very
 wide and unrestricted. The restrictions mentioned in Section
 437(1) do not apply to the special powers of the High Court or
 the Court of Session to grant bail under Section 439(1). Unlike
 under Section 437(1), there is no ban imposed under Section
 439(1) against granting of bail by the High Court or the Court of
 Session to persons accused of an offence punishable with death
 or imprisonment for life. However while considering an
 application for bail under Section 439(1), the High Court or the
 Court of Sessions will have to exercise its judicial discretion also
 bearing in mind, among other things, the rationale behind the
 ban imposed under Section 437(1) against granting bail to
 persons accused of offences punishable with death or
 imprisonment for life. (h) There is no hard and fast rule and no inflexible principle
 governing the exercise of such discretion by the Courts. There
 cannot be an inexorable formula in the matter of granting bail.
 The facts and circumstances of each case will govern the exercise
 of judicial discretion in granting or refusing bail. The answer to
 the question whether to grant bail or not depends upon a variety
 of circumstances, the cumulative effect of which must enter into
 the judicial verdict. Any one single circumstance cannot be
 treated as of universal validity or as necessarily justifying the
 grant or refusal of bail. (i) While exercising the discretion to grant or refuse bail the
 Court will have to take into account various considerations like
 the nature and seriousness of the offence; the circumstances in
 which the offence was committed; the character of the evidence;
 the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused; a
 reasonable apprehension of witnesses being influenced and
 evidence being tampered with; the larger interest of the public or

 7 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -8- the State; the position and status of the accused with reference to
 the victim and the witness; the likelihood of the accused fleeing
 from justice; the likelihood of the accused repeating the offence;
 the history of the case as well as the stage of investigation etc. In
 view of so many variable factors the considerations which should
 weigh with the Court cannot be Exhaustively set out. However,
 the two paramount considerations are: (i) the likelihood of the
 accused fleeing from justice and (ii) the likelihood of the accused
 tampering with prosecution evidence. These two considerations
 in fact relate to ensuring a fair trial of the case in a Court of
 justice and hence it is essential that due and proper weight should
 be bestowed on these two factors. (j) While exercising the power under Section 437 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code in cases involving non-bailable offences except
 cases relating to offences punishable with death or imprisonment
 for life, judicial discretion would always be exercised by the
 Court in favor of granting bail subject to sub- section 3 of Section
 437 with regard to imposition of conditions, if necessary. Unless
 exceptional circumstances are brought to the notice of the Court
 which might defeat proper investigation and a fair trial, the Court
 will not decline to grant bail to a person who is not accused of an
 offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life. (k) If investigation has not been completed and if the release of
 the accused on bail is likely to hamper the investigation, bail can
 be refused in order to ensure a proper and fair investigation. (l) If there are sufficient reasons to have a reasonable
 apprehension that the accused will flee from justice or will
 tamper with prosecution evidence he can be refused bail in order
 to ensure a fair trial of the case. (m) The Court may refuse bail if there are sufficient reasons to
 apprehend that the accused will repeat a serious offence if he is
 released on bail. (n) For the purpose of granting or refusing bail there is no
 classification of the offences except the ban under Section 437(1) 8 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -9- of the Criminal Procedure Code against grant of bail in the case
 of offences punishable with death or life imprisonment. Hence
 there is no statutory support or justification for classifying
 offences into different categories such as economic offences and
 for refusing bail on the ground that the offence involved belongs
 to a particular category. When the Court has been granted
 discretion in the matter of granting bail and when there is no
 statute prescribing a special treatment in the case of a particular
 offence the Court cannot classify the cases and say that in
 particular classes bail may be granted but not in others. Not only
 in the case of economic offences but also in the case of other
 offences the Court will have to consider the larger interest of the
 public or the State. Hence only the considerations which should
 normally weigh with the Court in the case of other non-bailable
 offences should apply in the case of economic offences also. It
 cannot be said that bail should invariably be refused in cases
 involving serious economic offences." In the present case, the allegations in the FIR are not disputed.

Admittedly, the investigation has been completed as not only the challan has

been presented but even the charges have been framed. It is also not

disputed that all the documents are in custody of the complainant or with the

investigating agency, but are now with the trial Court after presentation of

final report. Even the mobiles and E-Wallets have been taken in the custody

during investigation. No doubt while granting bail the Court has to keep in mind the

nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, severity of

the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused

and facts and circumstances of the case. It is also one of the factors while

considering the bail that that is a reasonable possibility of securing the

 9 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -10- presence of the accused during trial and reasonable apprehension of the

witnesses being tampered with. The larger interest of the public/State and

some other similar considerations are also there. However, for the purpose

of granting bail, the Legislature has used the words "reasonable grounds for

believing" instead of "the evidence", which means the Court while dealing

with the grant of bail can only satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine

case against the accused and the prosecution will be able to produce prima

facie evidence in support of the charges. At this stage, it is not expected to

have the evidence establishing the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable

doubt. It has been held in various judgments of this Court as well as Hon'ble

the Apex Court that in economic offence, the view point is to be taken

differently with different approach in case of bail. The economic offence

having deep rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds

needs to be taken seriously and considered as grave offence affecting the

economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the

financial health of the country as has been held by Hon'ble Apex Court in

judgment of case Nimmagadda Prasad Vs. Central Bureau of

Investigation AIR 2013 SCC 2821. It is a settled preposition of law that while granting bail though

the Court may impose reasonable conditions as it thinks fit but the object of

putting conditions is to avoid the possibility of the person hampering

investigation. The discretion of the Court while putting condition is to be in

exercise of judicial discretion. In an offence under Sections 409 and 420 IPC, the Court is certainly not going to recover the alleged amount as a

 10 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -11- condition to grant bail. In other words, reasonable conditions can be

incorporated in exercise of judicial discretion and purpose of putting such

conditions is to secure the presence of accused at the time of trial/hearing of

the case before the trial Court. Accordingly, without commenting anything on the merits of the

case as allegations are matter of evidence to be tested by the trial Court

during the course of trial and by considering that the petitioner is in custody

since 08.11.2017 and also the fact that report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. has

been submitted before the trial Court, the offences are triable by Magistrate,

co-accused has been released on anticipatory bail, which has been made

absolute and also by considering the judgment of Hon'ble the Apex Court in

case Manoranjana Sinh alias Gupta 's case (supra), wherein the concession

of bail has been granted to the accused persons who were involved in a big

scam, the present petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be

released on regular bail to the satisfaction of the trial Court subject to

following conditions :- 11 of 12 ::: Downloaded on - 02-10-2018 10:06:50 ::: CRM-M No.22790 of 2018 -12- trying to create hurdle in the investigation or trial of the case
 which will entail cancellation of bail. (5) Any other condition which may be imposed by the trial
 Court.