ISSUES BEFORE THE FULL BENCH : BACKGROUND OF THE CASE AND CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PARTIES : SCOPE OF POLICE POWERS OF INVESTIGATION AND COURT'S POWERS: 'AUDI ALTERAM PARTEM' RULE OR RIGHT OF ACCUSED TO NOTICE AT INVESTIGATION STAGE: SCOPE OF INTERFERENCE UNDER ARTICLE 226 OF THE CONSTITUTION: (Emphasis added). 37. It is evident from the statutory provisions itself that arrest is to be made only and only if it is found to be necessary and there is a justification for making the arrest for the purpose of further investigation. What to talk of arrest even case may not be investigated if there is no sufficient ground for the same. Therefore, it cannot be held that arrest is to be made in every case without discrimination rather the mandate issued by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Joginder Kumar 's case is to be followed but as stated above, the said case deals with the power of the police to make arrest while the Full Bench in Satyapal 's case deals with the power of the Court to interfere with investigation. 38. Investigation is the primary function of the Police. The arrest of the suspect in the next step in the investigation which can be carried out in certain cases without warrant of arrest. Arrest can also be made in view of the provision of Section 42 of the Code, if the accused does not disclose his identify, i.e. name, parentage and residence etc or information in this regard given by him is believed to be false. Tendency to implicate falsely in criminal cases and absence of statutory provision for seeking anticipatory bail in the State of Uttar Pradesh have flooded this Court with cases for quashing FIR/Complaint and in the meanwhile staying arrest. The Court is competent to interfere with investigation/arrest only in exceptional cases as explained above. LIMITATIONS ON EXAMINING QUESTIONS OF MALA FIDE IN WRIT PETITION: 39. The issue of mala fide decided by the Hon'ble Apex Court in State of Haryana v. Ch. Bhajan Lal (supra) held as under: 40. In Sheo Nandan Paswan v. State of Bihar and Ors. , the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with the issue of mala fides in criminal law observed as under: 41. Similarly, in State of Bihar and Anr. v. J.A.C. Saldanha and Anr. (supra), the Apex Court has held as under: 42. In Sarjudas and Anr. v. State of Gujarat the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that there must be cogent evidence of mala fides or malicious intention of the informant or the complainant for taking note of the allegations of mala fide. The bald statement in this respect is not sufficient. 43. In State of Orissa v. Saroj Kumar Sahoo , it has been held that probabilities of the prosecution version can not be analyzed at this stage. Likewise the allegations of mala fides of the informant are of secondary importance. The relevant passage reads thus: 44. In M. Narayandas v. State of Karnataka and Ors. , the Apex Court rejected the contention that proceedings were liable to be quashed as the same stood initiated on account of personal vendetta observing that complaint has to be tested and weighed after the evidence is collected. 45. Similar view has been explained by the Apex Court in State of Bihar and Anr. v. Shri P.P. Sharma and Anr. ; and Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. (supra). 46. Thus, it is evident that in case there is sufficient evidence against the accused, which may establish the charge against him, if the bias/mala fide is established, the proceedings cannot be quashed. QUASHING OF FIR BECAUSE DISPUTE IS OF CIVIL NATURE: 47. In Trilok Singh and Ors. v. Satya Deo Tripathi , the Hon'ble Supreme Court examined the similar case wherein the truck had been taken in possession by the Financer in terms of hire purchase agreement, as there was a default in making the payment of installments. A criminal case had been lodged against the Financer under Sections 395 , 468 , 465 , 471 , 120B / 34 , I.P.C. This Court refused to exercise its power under Section 482 , Cr.P.C. and did not quash the criminal proceedings on the ground that the Financer had committed an offence. However, reversing the said judgment , the Apex Court held that proceedings initiated were clearly an abuse of process of the Court. The dispute involved was purely of civil nature, even if the allegations made by the complainant were substantially correct. Under the hire purchase agreement, the Financer had made the payment of huge money and he was in fact the owner of the vehicle. The terms and conditions incorporated in the agreement gave rise in case of dispute only to civil rights and in such a case, the Civil Court must decide as what was the meaning of those terms and conditions. 48. In K.A. Mathai alias Babu and Anr. v. Kora Bibbikutty and Anr. , the Hon'ble Apex Court had taken a similar view holding that in case of default to make payment of installments, Financer had a right to resume possession even if the hire purchase agreement does not contain a clause of resumption of possession, for the reason that such a condition is to be read in the agreement. In such an eventuality, it cannot be held that the Financer had committed an offence of theft and that too, with the requisite mens rea and requisite dishonest intention. The assertions of rights and obligations accruing to the parties under the hire purchase agreement wipes out any dishonest pretence in that regard from which it cannot be inferred that Financer had resumed the possession of the vehicle with a guilty intention. 49. In Jagdish Chandra Nijhawan v. S.K. Saraf , the Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt with a case wherein the company had provided an accommodation to its employee and after termination of his services, he did not vacate the said accommodation and a criminal case was lodged against him under Sections 406 , 408 , 409 , I.P.C. also taking the assistance of Section 630 of the Companies Act, 1956. The Hon'ble Apex Court held that as the accused had been granted a rent free accommodation as a part of the conditions of employment, the agreement provided for civil rights and thus, complaint was not maintainable. 50. In Charanjit Singh Chadha and Ors. v. Sudhir Mehra , again the Hon'ble Apex Court held that recovery of possession of the vehicle by Financer-owner as per terms of the hire purchase agreement, does not amount to a criminal offence. Such an agreement is an executory contract of sale conferring no right in rem on the hirer until the transfer of the property to him has been fulfilled and in case the default is committed by the hirer and possession of the vehicle is resumed by the Financer, it does not constitute any offence for the reason that such a case/dispute is required to be resolved on the basis of terms incorporated in the agreement. The Apex Court elaborately dealt with the nature of the hire purchase agreement observing that in a case of mere contract of hiring, it is a contract of bailment which does not create a title in the bailee. 51. In Lalmuni Devi (Smt.) v. State of Bihar and Ors. , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that peculiar facts of a case may give rise to a civil claim and also amount to an offence. Merely because a civil claim is maintainable, it does not mean that the criminal complaint cannot be maintained, therefore, held that no law of universal application can be laid down in such matters. The facts and circumstances of each case have to be examined, appreciating the terms and conditions incorporated in the agreement. 52. In M. Krishnan v. Vijay Singh and Anr. , after considering several authorities on the point it was pointed out that mere filing of a civil suit with respect to the documents gives no ground for quashing criminal proceedings, as the allegations in the complaint need to be independently established. The Court held as under;- Accepting such a general proposition would be against the provisions of law inasmuch as in all cases of cheating and fraud, in the whole transaction, there is generally some element of civil nature. However, in this case the allegations were regarding the forging of the documents and acquiring gains on the basis of such forged documents. The proceedings could not be quashed only because the respondents had filed a civil suit with respect to the aforesaid documents. In a criminal court the allegations made in the complaint have to be established independently, notwithstanding the adjudication by a civil Court. Had the complainant failed to prove the allegations made by him the complaint, the respondents were entitled to discharge or acquittal but not otherwise. If mere pendency of a suit is made a ground for quashing the criminal proceedings, the unscrupulous litigants, apprehending criminal action against them, would be encouraged to frustrate the course of justice and law by filing suits with respect to the documents intended to be used against them after the initiation of criminal proceedings or in anticipation of such proceedings. Such a course cannot be the mandate of law. Civil proceedings, as distinguished from the criminal action, have to be adjudicated and concluded by adopting separate yardsticks. The onus of proving the allegations beyond reasonable doubt, in a criminal case, is not applicable in the civil proceedings which can be decided merely on the basis of the probabilities with respect to the acts complained of...Where factual foundations for the offence have been laid down in the complaint, the High Court should not hasten to quash criminal proceedings merely on the premise that one or two ingredients have not been stated with the details or that the facts narrated reveal the existence of commercial or money transaction between the parties. (Emphasis added). 53. Similarly, in Rajesh Bajaj (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 54. Similar view has been reiterated in Ram Biraji Devi (supra) observing that where a person cannot be fastened with any criminal liability and no guilty intention can be attributed to him nor there is a possibility of deceiving on his part and the matter relates to only civil liabilities, the Court should interfere and quash the proceedings. 55. Thus, in view of the above, it becomes clear that in a given case, there may be civil as well as criminal liability and the Court has to examine the facts and circumstances of each case. Nature of the agreement reached between the parties and terms and conditions incorporated therein would be determining factor. However, such a course is permissible where the matter is of such a nature that it can be decided only by a Civil Court and no element of criminal law is involved. DEFENCE AND INVESTIGATIONAL MATERIAL NOT TO BE CONSIDERED AT THIS STAGE: 56. In Savita v. State of Rajasthan (2005) 12 SCC 338, it has been held that at the stage when investigation had not even started and charge- sheet had not been submitted the High Court could not take into consideration extraneous material given by the party concerned for reaching the conclusion that no offence was disclosed. This in fact was too premature a stage for the High Court to give such a finding when even the investigation had not started and the investigating agency had no occasion to find out whether there was material to file a charge-sheet or not. 57. Similarly in State of T.N. v. Thirukkural Perumal , it has been held that it is impermissible to quash criminal proceedings based on evidence collected by the investigating agency during investigation. The Court held as under: 58. In S.M. Datta v. State of Gujarat and Anr. , the practice of the High Court in scuttling criminal proceedings at the initial stage was criticised, except in the rarest cases where the same amounted to abuse of the process of law. Only broad allegations were to be seen and genuineness of the FIR could not be looked into at this stage. The Court observed as under: 59. In Medchl Chemicals & Pharma (P) Ltd. v. Biological E. Ltd. and Ors. AIR 2000 SC 1869, the Apex Court observed that the complaint or charge sheet can only be quashed in the rarest of rare exceptional case, but where the allegations on the face of the complaint do not constitute an offence, criminal proceedings may be unhesitantly quashed. The Court held as follows: 60. Thus, the Court is not permitted to consider/examine the reliability/genuineness of the allegations made in the F.I.R. or complaint, at the stage of considering a case for quashing criminal proceedings. QUASHING OF F.I.R. - BECAUSE OF CROSS-CASES: 61. In the case of Jagdish Yadav v. Ram Nandan Yadav and Ors. 1990 SCC (Crl.) 648, it was observed that simply due to lodging of a cross-case the investigation ought not to have been interfered with by the High Court. As in view of the fact that the two cases related to the same incident it was open to the Magistrate after the two reports came to be placed before him to consider what action according to law is called for. 62. Likewise the scope of interference with investigation when there were cross cases has been considered in Kari Choudhary v. Sita Devi , the Court observed that there cannot be two FIRs against the same accused in respect of the same case. But when there are rival versions in respect of the same episode, they would normally take the shape of two different FIRs and investigation can be carried on under both of them by the same investigating agency. 63. In Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash , the Court considered the issue and placing reliance upon its earlier judgment in T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala and Ors. , held that the registration of a complaint in the nature of a counter-case from the purview of the Code is not excluded. Any further complaint by the same complainant or others against the same accused, subsequent to the registration of a case, is prohibited under the Code because an investigation in this regard would have already started and further complaint against the same accused will amount to an improvement on the facts mentioned in the original complaint, hence will be prohibited under Section 162 of the Code. This prohibition does not apply to counter-complaint by the accused In the first complaint or on his behalf alleging a different version of the said incident. The Court held as under: 64. In view of the above, pendency of cross-cases in respect of the same incident cannot be a sole and exclusive ground for interference with criminal proceedings. SCOPE OF ARTICLE 141 AND LAW OF PRECEDENTS: 65. There can be no dispute that the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court Is binding on all Courts of the country in view of the provisions of Article 141 of the Constitution of India but the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court is to be read with reference to and in the contest of the peculiar statutory provisions interpreted by the Court and taking into consideration the facts of the case where the law had been laid down. 66. It is settled proposition of law that an issue, which has not been considered by the Court while delivering a judgment, cannot be said to be binding as a decision of the Court takes its colour from the questions involved in the case in which it is rendered and while applying the decision to a later case, the Court must carefully try to ascertain the true principle laid down by the decision of the Court. The Court should not place reliance upon a discussion without discussing as to how the factual situation fits in with a fact situation of the decision on which reliance is placed, as it has to be ascertained by analyzing all the material facts and the issues involved in the case and argued on both sides. The judgment has to be read with reference to and in context with a particular statutory provisions interpreted by the Court as the Court has to examine as what principle of law has been decided and the decision cannot be relied upon in support of a proposition that it did not decide ( Vide H.H. Maharajadhiraja Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia Bahadur and Ors. v. Union of India ; Amar Nath Om Parkash and Ors. v. State of Punjab and Ors. ; Rajpur Ruda Meha and Ors. v. State of Gujarat ; C.I.T. v. Sun Engineering Works (P) Ltd. ; Sarva Shramik Sangh, Bombay v. Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd. and Anr. ; Haryana Financial Corporation and Anr. v. Jagdamba Oil Mills and Anr. ; Mehboob Dawood Shaikh v. State of Maharastra ; ICICI Bank and Anr. v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay and Ors. ; MaKhija Construction and Enggr. Pvt. Ltd. v. Indore Development Authority and Ors. ; and Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd. and Anr. ). 67. In Jawahar Lal Sazawal and Ors. v. State of Jammu & Kashmir and Ors. , Hon'ble Supreme Court held that a judgment may not be followed in a given case if it has some distinguishing features. 68. In Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar Mill (P) Ltd. , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that a decision is an authority for which it is decided and not what can logically be deduced therefrom. A little difference in facts or additional facts may make a lot of difference in the precedential value of a decision. While deciding the said case the Court placed reliance upon its earlier judgment in Delhi Administration v. Manohar Lal . 69. In Union of India v. Chajju Ram , a Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under;- It is now well settled that a decision is an authority for what it decides and not what can logically be deduced therefrom. It is equally well settled that a little difference in facts may lead to a different conclusion. 70. In Ashwani Kumar Singh v. U.P. Public Service Commission and Ors. , the Apex court held that a judgment of the Court is not to be read as a statute as it is to be remembered that judicial utterances have been made in setting of the facts of a particular case. Substantial flexibility; one additional or different fact may make a world of difference between the conclusions in two cases. Disposal of cases by blindly placing reliance upon a decision is not proper. 71. Not only that, in Nand Kishore v. State of Punjab , the Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under: 72. The Hon'ble Apex Court has repeatedly held that it is the duty of the judiciary to enforce the rule of law and, therefore, to guard against erosion of the rule of law and while performing its duty, it is competent to lay down norms, procedure and guidelines for observance (Vide Vineet Narain v. Union of India and Ors. ; and Union of India v. Sushil Kumar Modi ). 73. In view of the above, it is evident that while following the judgment of the higher Court, the Court has to examine as to whether the issue involved in the case in hand had been decided in the case sought to be followed. The facts, if found distinguishable, can also tilt the position as in that situation the ratio of the judgment may not be applicable. FINAL DISPOSAL OF CASES AT INITIAL STAGE: 74. In many cases, it has been found that petitions are disposed of on the very first day without issuing notice to the complaint and giving the opportunity to the State to controvert the averments made in the petition staying the arrest of the accused till the charge sheet is filed. Such a course is not permissible as the Court has to deal with every case on merit. 75. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Manjit Kaur v. State of Punjab and Ors. (2005) 12 SCC 310, cautioned the Court not to quash the proceedings by a cryptic and unreasoned order. It was further observed that the petition is to be disposed of by a reasoned order taking into account the facts and legal issues involved therein. 76. As to whether it is permissible for this Court to dispose of the petition on the very first date staying the arrest till charge sheet is filed. 77. The issue involved herein was examined by a Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in State of Orissa v. Madan Gopal Rungta , wherein the Orissa High Court while dismissing the writ petition without entering into the merit of the case, relegated the petitioner therein to the Civil Court as the petition raised disputed questions of fact, had granted the interim relief for a limited period to facilitate the petitioner to approach the Civil Court and obtain interim relief. The Hon'ble Apex Court set aside the said order of the High Court observing that the writ was not maintainable only for the purpose of granting interim relief and in case the High Court did not entertain the case on merit and relegated the party to some other forum, it did not have a power to grant interim relief for the interregnum period. The Court held as under: 78. The said judgment stood approved by a Seven Judges' Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Special Reference No. 1 of 1964 under Article 143 of the Constitution of India , further placing reliance on Maxwel wherein it had been observed that when an Act confers a jurisdiction, it impliedly also grants the power of doing of such acts or applying such means as are essentially necessary to its execution. 79. The ratio of the said judgment in Madan Gopal (supra) has consistently been approved and followed by the Hon'ble Apex Court as is evident from the Constitution Benches decisions in Amarsarjit Singh v. State of Punjab ; and State of Orissa v. Ram Chandra Dev . In State of Bihar v. Rambalak Singh "Balak" and Ors. , the Hon'ble Apex Court has made a similar observation observing that granting interim relief is permissible when the case is pending before the Court and if jurisdiction is conferred by the Statute upon a Court, the conferment of jurisdiction implies the conferment of power of doing all such acts or applying such means. 80. In The Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlakar Shantaram Wadke and Ors. , a similar view has been reiterated. 81. A Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Maharaj Umeg Singh and Ors. v. State of Bombay and Ors. , entertained a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and the question involved therein had been as to whether the Moti Moree held by the petitioner and his ancestors under a Grant was part of Jagir within the meaning of The Bombay Merged Territories and Areas (Jagir Abolition) Act, 1954. The vires of the provisions of the Act had been challenged, The Hon'ble Apex Court subsequently came to the conclusion that the petitioner therein had to establish satisfactorily that the Moti Moree was not a Jagir within the definition given under the Act 1954 and the question required to be completely thrashed out and adjudicated upon by the Civil Court. The Court relegated the parties to the Civil Court and adjourned the case till that issue was decided by the Civil Court. However, the Court further granted the following interim relief: 82. In the said case, though the parties therein were relegated to the Civil Court for adjudication of their rights by adducing evidence on facts but granted the interim relief till the disposal of the Suit for the reason that the matter remained pending before the Court to be decided after disposal of the Suit. More so, it contained an undertaking given by the Advocate General of the State of Bombay not to take any step adversely affecting the petitioner. 83. Thus, it is evident from the aforesaid judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court that the Court has a power to grant interim relief so long the case is pending before it. In a case where the writ Court refuses to entertain a petition and relegates the party to some other appropriate forum or the party itself withdraws the writ petition to approach another forum, as the case does not remain pending before the Court, the writ Court has no competence to issue any direction protecting the right of the petitioner interregnum, for the reason that writ does not lie for granting only an interim relief and interim relief can be granted provided the case is pending before the Court and rights of the parties are likely to be adjudicated upon on merit. Under the garb of seeking quashing of criminal proceedings, the relief of anticipatory bail, which is not available in the State of U.P., cannot be obtained, for the reason that a litigant cannot be permitted to achieve something indirectly, which cannot be sought directly. REASONED ORDER NEEDED FOR INTERIM RELIEF: 84. In view of the above, it is neither desirable nor permissible in law to dispose of a writ petition granting the interim relief without adjudicating upon the issues involved therein. Thus, the petition is to be decided on merit. However, it may be necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case that interim relief has to be granted for the reason that in the facts and circumstances of a case, withholding of interim relief may tantamount to dismissal of the main relief itself as by the time the case comes for hearing to be decided finally, nothing may be allowed to be granted in favour of the petitioner. 85. In Deoraj v. State of Maharashtra and Ors. , the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with a case of election under the provisions of Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 , held that interim relief should be granted if so required but in a foolproof case. The Court held as under: 86. Similar view has been reiterated in Bombay Dyeing & Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. Bombay Environmental Action Group and Ors. , placing reliance upon the earlier judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Dr. B. Singh v. Union of India and Ors. AIR 2004 SC 1923; and Dattaraj Nathuji Thaware v. State of Maharashtra and Ors. AIR 2005 SC 540, wherein it has been held that the Court must consider on one hand the enormity of losses and hardship which may be suffered by others, if interim order is granted and whether petition itself would become infructuous if the interim relief is refused on the other hand. Thus, the Court has to strike a balance between the two extreme positions. FACTS AND ISSUES IN JOGINDER KUMAR'S CASE : 87. It may be noted that Joginder Kumar's involved the arrest of a practising lawyer who had been called to the police station in connection with a case under inquiry on 7-1-94. On not receiving any satisfactory account of his whereabouts, the family members of the detained lawyer preferred a petition in the nature of habeas corpus before the apex Court on 11-1-94 and in compliance with the notice, the lawyer was produced on 14-1-94 before the Court, The police version was that during 7-1-1994 and 14-1-1994 the lawyer was not in detention at all but was only assisting the police to detect some cases, The detenu asserted otherwise, The Court was not satisfied with the police version. It was noticed that though as on that day the relief in habeas corpus petition could not be granted but the questions whether there had been any need to detain the lawyer for 5 days and if at all he was not in detention then why was the Court not informed, were important questions which required an answer. Besides, if there was detention for 5 days, for what reason was he detained. The Court, therefore, directed the District Judge, Ghaziabad to make a detailed enquiry and submit his report within 4 weeks. In that case the Court voiced its concern regarding complaints of violations of human rights during and after arrest. 88. In Joginder Kumar 's case, the apex court has considered the issue of balancing individual rights and liberties of detained accused, on the one hand, and the society's need for law enforcement on the other. 89. Joginder Kumar 's case does not confer any powers on the High Court to quash an FIR in the extraordinary powers of the High under Article 226 of the Constitution or of staying the arrest simply because the case is of a minor nature or because the investigation has not been able to produce significant material for showing the complicity of an accused in an offence at that stage. Finally in operative part of the judgment in Joginder Kumar 's case, the Apex Court has only issued certain directions. 90. However, for non-compliance of the aforesaid directions, the official concerned can be held liable for departmental action, and may also be liable to be punished for contempt of court. The observations and guidelines in D.K. Basu and Joginder Kumar are therefore directed at the police. The said judgment did not deal with the power of the High Court to quash the FIR and investigation or to stay the arrest of the accused at all. 91. The Full Bench in Satyapal 's case had examined the issue as to what extent and in what circumstances, this Court has competence to interfere with investigation of an offence. While in Joginder Kumar 's case, the Supreme Court explained the powers of the police to arrest a person suspected to be involved in a crime. Thus, in both the cases, issue had been entirely different and there was nothing common in both the said cases. Observations made by the Full Bench in Satyapal 's case that Joginder Kumar 's case was decided on the facts of that case, simply meant that the law laid down therein did not affect the powers of this Court in interfering with investigation by any means. 92. While dealing with a similar situation, i.e. the observations made by a Seven Judges' Bench in India Cement Ltd. v. State of Tamil Nadu , the five Judges' Bench in State of West Bengal v. Kesoram Industries Ltd. , observed as under: 93. In view of the above, it is not permissible to read the said observations in a manner not warranted nor any person can be permitted to make an issue of it. The Full Court only intended to say that the ratio of Joginder Kumar 's case was not applicable in a case where quashing of criminal proceedings is sought. ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS REFERRED: 94. In view of the above, the conclusions drawn by us, hereinabove, we answer the first part of question No. 1 holding that Satyapal 's case lays down the correct law and we approve, affirm and reiterate the same. However, the second part of the 1st question does not require to be answered, as the ratio of Joginder Kumar's case has no application in a case for quashing criminal proceedings. 95. Our answer to the second question under reference is that the observations contained in the Full Bench decision in Satyapal 's case did not Intend to whittle down or reduce the powers of this Court for staying the arrest of an accused person and for which our judgment contains reason explaining the intendment of the Full Bench judgment therein, i.e. the ratio of Joginder Kumar 's case had no application in Satyapal 's case. 96. After answering the aforesaid questions, the matter requires to be sent back to the Division Bench for its disposal. However, at the time of conclusion of the submissions, it was suggested by the learned Counsel for the parties that in the instant case the investigation has been completed and charge sheet has been filed against the petitioner. The Competent Court has already taken cognizance and In such circumstances, the petition has become infructuous and be accordingly dismissed as having become infructuous. 97. The petition stands accordingly dismissed as having become infructuous. Amar Saran, J. 98. I have had the advantage of reading the opinion of my esteemed senior Brother Hon'ble Chauhan, J. 99. I am in full agreement with his Lordship's answer to the first question referred by the Division Bench of this Court comprising Hon'ble M. Katju J' and Hon'ble Onkareshwar Bhatt J vide their order dated 22.8.2000. The question referred was as under: The answer given by Brother Chauhan J was as follows: The answer given by Brother Chauhan, J. to the second question was: 100. As brother Justice Chauhan has already stated in his answer to both the questions referred by the Division Bench that the ratio of Joginder Kumar's case has no application in a case praying for staying arrests, in my view the valid answer to the second question about whether the Full Bench was right in holding that Joginder Kumar 's case was delivered on its own peculiar facts and did not lay down any legal principles relating to the power of the arrest and the power of staying of arrest by this Court, lay in affirming the Full Bench in Satyapal 's case even on this point. 101. If the observations in Joginder Kumar 's case are excluded as is mentioned in the answer of Brother Chauhan J to this question and also in the second part of the answer given to the first referred question, then there can be no denial of the fact that ipso facto to some extent the powers of this Court to stay arrest are whittled down. Furthermore in my view the position that the scope of this Court under Article 226 for interfering with investigations and staying arrests is not whittled down even without applying Joginder Kumar 's case, runs counter to the position taken in Satyapal 's case and will amount to over-ruling or mitigating the ratio and impact of Satyapal 's case, in an indirect way, which is a course not permissible for a subsequent Full Bench of equal strength. 102. I also do not think that the reference by the Division Bench headed by Hon'ble M. Katju J was meaningless or futile, which is what the answer to the second question that even without applying Joginder Kumar 's case the power of the Court to stay arrest was "not whittled down" would seem to imply. 103. In my view the Division Bench had sought to seek the application of Joginder Kumar 's case in the matters relating to stay of arrest because they were conscious of the limitations imposed because of Satyapal 's case which in turn was based on various pronouncements of the Apex Court which defined the parameters and scope for permitting interference with the FIR and investigation and for staying arrest. The referring Division Bench sought enlargement of those powers by insisting that some observations in Joginder Kumar 's case should also be taken into consideration fur staying arrest of accused against whom FIRs disclosing cognizable offences have been registered. The power of arrest could only have a wider meaning and amplitude provided the ratio of Joginder Kumar 's case as understood by the Division Bench was applied. The relevant passage in Joginder Kumar 's case (paragraph 24) which was quoted with approval by the D.B. in this regard was: 104. Satyapal 's case on the other hand examined which of the two views, in Mahesh Yadav v. State of U.P. Writ Petition No. 4658 of 1998, where the petition had been disposed of on the very first day with a direction that the petitioner was not to be arrested in the concerned crime number until submission of the charge-sheet subject to his cooperating with the investigation, or the view taken in Writ Petition No. 2588 of 1998 : Shamsul Islam @ Afroz v. State of U.P. and Ors. refusing to interfere with the investigation and to stay the arrest where the FIR disclosed commission of a cognizable offence, was correct. Satyapal 's case preferred the view taken in Shamsul Islam (supra) to the view in Mahesh Yadav's case. Satyapal also laid down that without issuing notice to the informant calling for a reply, no order finally disposing of the petition and staying the arrest until submission of charge sheet could be passed at the stage of initial hearing. Satyapal 's case has cited with approval the law laid down in the State of Haryana v. Ch. Bhajan Lal and Ors. 1991 (28) ACC 11 (SC), Pepsi Food Limited v. Spl. Judicial Magistrate and Ors. 1998 (36) ACC 20 (SC), Roopan Deol Bajaj v. K.P.S. Gill 1995 (32 ACC 786 (SC), Smt. Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar Bhada 1997 (Suppl) ACC 30 (SC) and Central Bureau of Investigation v. Duncan Agro Industries Ltd. 1995 (Suppl) ACC 204 (SC), and has held that the ratio in Joginder Kumar's case has no application and it needs to be confined to its own facts. In paragraph 31 Satyapal 's case has observed: 105. The anxiety of the referring Division Bench in desiring that the observations in Joginder Kumar 's case may also be taken into account for effecting stays of arrest during investigation is however understandable. On a traditional interpretation of the legal position as laid down in Satyapal 's case and in the authorities of the apex Court referred therein, the scope of Interference and stay of arrest at the stage of investigation needed to be confined to the "rarest of rare" cases. Under the settled interpretation of the powers of this Court under Article 226 , there was no power of staying arrests when the FIR disclosed a cognizable offence, even in those cases where the accused was being prosecuted for a minor criminal offence, where the accused was already named in the FIR and his arrest was not needed for custodial interrogation or for facilitating the investigation, where there was no likelihood of the accused absconding or repeating the crime, where the dispute was really of a civil nature, where there were cross cases, where apparently the accused had been falsely implicated due to political rivalry, or there was omnibus involvement of all major or minor, married or unmarried female and male members of a family in a case under Section 498A IPC, or the Dowry Prohibition Act . 106. It was on this understanding that the referring Division Bench had pointed out that on a reading of Section 157(1) of Cr.P.C, arrest is not necessary in all cases and it is to be effected only "if necessary". 107. However as Brother Chauhan has rightly concluded that the observations in Joginder Kumar can not be utilized for considering the scope of powers for quashing criminal proceedings or for staying arrest therein, and observations in Joginder Kumar are essentially directed at the police. 108. Joginder Kumar was on a habeas corpus petition which had been filed for the release from illegal detention of a practicing advocate. As the Court was not satisfied with the plea of the Police respondents who produced Joginder Kumar in Court that they had picked him up in a bona fide manner for interrogation about a criminal case and he had not been illegally detained, the Apex Court had directed enquiry into the matter by the district judge and it was in that connection that observations had been made about situations when arrests may not be necessary or justified, although powers for arrest existed with the police. 109. In its operative part, the Court in Joginder Kumar 's case had also only issued the following directions: It shall be the duty of the Magistrate, before whom the arrested person is produced, to satisfy himself that these requirements have been complied with. The above requirements shall be followed in all cases of arrest till legal provisions are made in this behalf. These requirements shall be in addition to the rights of the arrested persons in the various Police Manuals. 110. In D.K. Basu v. State of West Bengal the Court also mentions some similar directions and guidelines which included the need for the arresting officer to wear identification tags, to make a memo of arrest at the time of arrest, to note in the case diary the name of his next friend disclosed by the arrestee who was to be informed of the arrest, to permit the arrestee's lawyer to be present for part of the time during custodial interrogation, to get medical examination of the arrestee done every 48 hours during interrogation. 111. These cases were therefore not at all concerned with the powers of the High Court for staying arrest during investigation in a cognizable case. For non-compliance of the directions in D.K. Basu as in Joginder Kumar, the official concerned has only been held liable for departmental action or for being punished for contempt of court. In this regard paragraph 37 of D.K. Basu 's case observes: 112. In Ahmed Noormohmed Bhatti v. State of Gujarat also it has been mentioned in paragraph 8 that for violation of the guidelines contained in O.K. Basu and Joginder Kumar the appropriate remedy is departmental action or contempt. Paragraph 9 of the aforesaid law report reads as follows: (Emphasis added) 113. It is clear from a perusal of Chapters V and XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the observations and guidelines in D.K. Basu and Joginder Kumar, that these provisions, directions and observations are directed at the investigating officer, and powers of supervision have been entrusted to the Magistrate concerned to ensure compliance of the same. 114. No power is conferred on the High Court to quash the FIR and Investigation or to stay the arrest of the petitioner because some of these directions or observations have not been complied with. Only because the High Court is of the opinion that the particular case is not of such a grave nature necessitating arrest, or that the accused is not likely to abscond or that his arrest is not needed for the purpose of investigation, the High Court is not empowered to substitute its discretion in place of the discretion of the Investigating officer, who alone is entitled to arrive at a conclusion as to whether there is any need to effect arrest during investigation. A direction for staying the arrest or quashing an FIR can only be passed in that rarest of rare case where the FIR on its plain reading discloses no cognizable offence. The observations in Joginder Kumar are not meant for enlarging the jurisdiction of the Court for quashing an FIR in exercise of its extraordinary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Quashing of an FIR or consequential stay of arrest is only possible when the FIR does not disclose a cognizable offence, or when a case for interference with the investigation falls within the parameters set by the decisions of the apex Court State of Haryana v. Bhajanlal et al and relied upon in Satyapal which deal with the powers of the High Court to quash an FIR or to stay the arrest during investigation. 115. At best as observed by the apex Court in Joginder Kumar (supra) that "it shall be the duty of the Magistrate, before whom the arrested person is produced, to satisfy himself that these requirements have been complied with." 116. There is also no decision of the Apex Court where a contrary view has been taken or where it has been held that Joginder Kumar 's case can be utilized for extending the powers of staying arrest or interfering with the investigation beyond the parameters of the decisions of the Apex Court described above. 117. It may be noted that Brother Chauhan J relying on authorities starting from the Privy Council case in Emperor v. Khawaja Nazir Ahmad AIR 1945 PC 18, and going on to H.N. Rishbud , Abhinandan Jha and Ors. v. Dinesh Mishra , M.C Abraham and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra and Ors. , Adri Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal AIR 2005 SC 1057 has also held that the powers and functions of the police and the Courts is clearly demarcated, and that the Court will not ordinarily intervene with the investigation of a crime or with the arrest of the accused in a cognizable case, which is the province of the police. What then is the remedy? 118. The only remedy in my opinion when an accused is sought to be arrested in the case of a minor cognizable offence, where the arrest may not appear strictly necessary at the stage of investigation is the power of anticipatory bail conferred under Section 438 Cr.P.C. This is the only provision wherein the Sessions Court and thereafter the High Court could consider the gravity or minor nature of the cognizable offence, merits of the matter, the probabilities and genuineness or otherwise of the allegations, for considering whether it would be proper to restrain the Investigating officer from arresting an accused by granting him anticipatory bail in an appropriate case. The relevant provision, Section 438 Cr.P.C has conferred wide powers in this connection to the Sessions Court or the High Court to grant bail to an accused in the event of his being arrested in a non-bailable case "if it thinks fit" subject to such conditions as are mentioned in sub-clause (2) of the provision. Section 438 of the Code is being reproduced below; 438. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.- (1) When any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on an accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section; and that Court may, if it thinks fit, direct that in the event of such arrest, he shall be released on bail. (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction under Sub-section (1), it may include such conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may thinks fit, including - (i) a condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required; (ii) a condition that the person shall not directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer; (iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the Court. (iv) such other condition as may be imposed under Sub-section (3) of Section 437, as if the bail were granted under that section. If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station on such accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such officer to give bail, he shall be released on bail, and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that a warrant should issue in the first instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under Sub-section (1). (Emphasis added) 119. That this provision was enacted for giving relief to an accused in such situations, where allegations are not very grave or where the accused appear to have been implicated because of political rivalry or where the arrest may not be necessary at the stage of investigation would be apparent from a perusal of Clause 39.9 of the 41st Report, and clause 31 of the 48th Law Commission Report which contain the objects and reasons for introducing the said provision. Clause 39.9 of the 41st and clause 31 of the 48th Law Commission Report are being reproduced herein below: We recommend the acceptance of this suggestion. We are further of the view that this special power should be conferred only in the High Court and the Court of Sessions, and that the order should take effect at the time of arrest or thereafter. 31. The Bill introduces a provision for the grant of anticipatory bail. This is substantially in accordance with the recommendation made by the previous Commission (41st Report). We agree that this would be a useful addition, though we must add that it is in very exceptional cases that such a power should be exercised. We are further of the view that in order to ensure that the provision is not put to abuse at the instance of unscrupulous petitioners, the final order should be made only after notice to the public prosecutor. The initial order should only be an interim one. Further the relevant section should make it clear that the direction can be issued only for reasons to be recorded, and if the Court is satisfied that such a direction is necessary in the interests of justice. It will also be convenient to provide that the notice of the interim order as well as of the final orders will be given to the Superintendent of Police forthwith. (Emphasis added) 120. However, the State of U.P. in its wisdom by Section 9 of Act No. 16 of 1976, which became effective from 1.5.1976, has chosen to omit Section 438 Cr.P.C in the State of U.P. Two Division Benches of this Court, in Vijai Kumar Verma v. State of U.P. and Ors. 2002 (2) JIC 429 (All) decided on 29.7.2002 comprising of Justice M. Katju and Justice K.N. Sinha and another D.B., Crl. Misc. Writ Petition No. 5774 of 2006, Smt. Sudama and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors. in which orders were passed on 9.5.2006, (wherein I was a member) have strongly urged the State Government to consider restoring Section 438 Cr.P.C. in the State of U.P. 121. It is pointed out in the said cases that for minor matters where the accused may have been implicated owing to political rivalry or where there is no danger of the accused absconding nor is the arrest of the accused necessary for the purpose of custodial interrogation, identification or getting any recovery effected the provision of anticipatory bail is the proper remedy. It was further observed in the aforesaid Division Benches that there is no justifiable reason for excluding this provision from the State of. U.P., when it exists in every other state, in its present or slightly modified form (as in Orissa, West Bengal and Maharashtra). There is also no evidence to suggest that absence of this provision in U.P. has helped improve the law and order situation in U.P., in any manner. Precautions can be taken for ensuring that the provision if re-introduced in U.P. is not misused, by confining the power only for a limited period, or till submission of charge-sheet and making surrender before the Court concerned, a pre-condition for an application for regular bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C. If the legislatures so desire, the provision of anticipatory bail could be denied in grave cases of murder, dacoity, rape, abduction or Prevention of Corruption Act, NDPS Act etc. Well defined parameters for exercise of powers under Section 438 Cr.P.C. have been laid down in various decisions of the Apex court which are described in the D.B. order in Smt. Sudama and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors. (supra). 122. Restoring the provision of anticipatory bail in U.P. would reduce unnecessary work load and free at least 6 Allahabad High Court judges (and additionally 3 or 4 judges at the Lucknow bench of the High Court) who are presently engaged in hearing thousands of petitions which are filed every year under Article 226 and under 482 Cr.P.C in these essentially temporary matters for staying arrests at the stage of investigation, who may then be available for final disposal of the approximately 60,000 pending criminal appeals and other important matters whose non-disposal have caused a veritable crisis in the criminal justice system. Anticipatory bail orders are usually passed after giving notice to the State and the Investigating Officer, and not ex parte, as are orders passed under Article 226 of the Constitution, because counsel argue that that if instructions are awaited the petition may become infructuous as the accused may be arrested meanwhile. Arrests have even been stayed in grave cases of murder, rape, dacoity abduction, under the Prevention of Corruption Act , or cases of financial and other scams or where accused are absconding, not co-operating or they are needed for custodial interrogation, effecting recoveries under Section 27 of the Evidence Act or for obtaining their hand writings, or thumb marks or they have to be put up for identification. The interim orders staying arrests having been obtained ex parte because of misinformation or incomplete information furnished by counsel, in the absence of instructions from investigating officers. An order of anticipatory bail on the other hand passed by the Sessions Judge could be passed after obtaining instructions from the locally based investigating officer and would be subject to greater control and judicial review by the High Court. Hence there is little reason to suspect that there would be any misuse if Sessions Courts and the High Court are entrusted with powers of anticipatory bail. Moreover an order of anticipatory bail where the accused needs to fill up bonds and produce sureties for his appearance is a better guarantee to ensure the appearance of the accused in Court during trial or for the purpose of investigation when needed, compared to an unconditional order staying arrest under Article 226 passed by the High Court. 123. However in view of the omission of Section 438 Cr.P.C from the State of U.P., I am of the opinion that it is not permissible to introduce anticipatory bail by the back door by taking recourse to Article 226 of the Constitution of India for staying arrest unless it is one of the rarest of rare exceptional cases where the FIR discloses no cognizable offence or the case is covered in the parameters mentioned in Bhajan Lal and other cases dealing with powers of High Court to quash an FIR and Investigation. It is true that on this interpretation, relief may have to be denied to petitioners in petty cases where accused may have been implicated in a mala fide manner due to political rivalries or in cases of 498 A IPC where entire families have been Indiscriminately roped in or where there arrests may not be strictly needed during investigation. This may also result in disquiet and protest from the general public. 124. However the blame for this problem must squarely be laid at the door of the legislature which has taken away a salutary power, and has left the public without remedy in a suitable case. If the said power of anticipatory bail is omitted in ail matters, without exception in the State of U.P., it is for the legislatures to face the political fall out and consequences of this omission. The High Court cannot do indirectly what it cannot do directly and lay down bad law by arrogating to itself powers to pass orders under Article 226 staying arrests which are in effect a subterfuge for orders of anticipatory bail for the purpose of bailing out legislatures for their actions or inactions, or treat a cognizable case as a non-cognizable case for the purpose of interfering with the power of arrest during investigation. 125. In this view of the matter I concur with the answer given by Brother Chauhan J to the first question that Satyapal 's case has laid down the correct law on when arrests may be stayed during investigation and that the observations in Joginder Kumar 's case has no relevance on the matter, However so far as the second question posed by the referring Division bench is concerned, my answer is that the Full Bench in Satyapal 's case was right in holding that Joginder Kumar 's case was delivered on its own peculiar facts and does not lay down any legal principles relating to the power of arrest and the power of staying of arrest by this Court, and I affirm the view taken by the Full Bench in Satyapal 's case also on this point. 126. I agree with Brother Chauhan J that the petition needs to be dismissed both on merits, resulting in the rejection of the reference, and because the petition has become infructuous due to submission of the charge sheet.