1. The petitioner/Accused No. 5 is before this Court

 seeking for: operate for unlocking the mobile phone,

 passed in Spl. C.C. No. 529/2019 on the file

 of XXXIII Additional City Civil and Sessions

 Judge and Special Court for NDPS cases

 Bangalore City, which is arising out of Crime

 No.588/2018 on the file of the first

 respondent police as illegal and abuse of

 process of Law. WP No.11759/2020 FACTS 2. In the Petition, it is contended that: 2020 that the Petitioner is not giving his

 mobile phone password for unlocking his

 mobile when the Court directed the Petitioner

 to co-operate for unlocking the mobile phone.

 It is further stated that the Petitioner co-

 operated with the police in opening his E-mail

 accounts. 2.9. On 16-09-2020, the Petitioner was produced

 before Court and got remanded to Judicial 8 WP No.11759/2020 custody because his presence was no more

 required for the police investigation.

2.10. On 23-09-2020, the second Respondent, CCB

 police, filed an application before the Special

 Court for an order of permission to subject

 the Petitioner for Polygraph test because he

 has not given mobile phone password for

 unlocking his mobile phone and also for

 getting opened two more E-mail accounts

 belonging to him. This application copy was

 not served either on the counsel for Petitioner

 or on Petitioner, and as soon as it was filed,

 an order dated 23-09-2020 was passed to

 send the Petitioner for Polygraph test as

 prayed in the Application, and it was ordered

 to the Investigation officer of CCB Police

 Bangalore to take the Petitioner for Polygraph

 test with proper escorts by 28-09-2020. 9 WP No.11759/2020 2.11. It is contended that before passing the order

 dated 23-09-2020 directing a Polygraph test,

 no opportunity was given to Petitioner or his

 counsel to defend the Application filed by CCB

 police for Polygraph test and thereby, the

 order for Polygraph test was not known to

 Petitioner or his counsel. 2.12. It is only on 03-09-2020, the Petitioner's

 father was told by his friends that in Media it

 is being reported that the Court has

 permitted a Polygraph test of the Petitioner.

 Petitioner's father immediately informed the

 counsel for Petitioner, and thereafter on

 verification, it was found to be true and the

 order dated 23-09-2020 had been passed

 without the Petitioner's knowledge.

2.13. On 3-10-2020, the Petitioner's counsel filed 10 WP No.11759/2020 an application to recall the order of Polygraph

 test dated 23-09-2020 as not tenable in Law

 as it amounts to testimonial compulsion hit

 by Article 20 clause (3) of the Constitution.

 He is not consenting to the Polygraph test;

 the order was passed behind the back of the

 Petitioner. Hence it was required to recall the

 order and to give an opportunity of hearing

 regarding the Polygraph test more so when

 the Petitioner was not willing to subject

 himself to such a test. 2.14. This recall application copy was served upon

 Spl.PP on 03-10-2020 and was put up on 05-

 10-2020 before the Special Court, which

 granted time to file objections, which was

 filed on 07-10-2020. 2.15. It is stated that during the course of 11 WP No.11759/2020 arguments, t he Petitioner's counsel

 specifically brought to the notice of the

 Special Court that the Petitioner is not

 consenting for Polygraph test and the order

 for Polygraph test dated 23-09-2020 was

 passed without hearing him, it amounts to

 testimonial compulsion as held by th e

 Hon'b1e Supreme court in the case of Selvi

 V/ s State of Karnataka reported in 2010

 (7) SCC 263, it interferes in his right to

 privacy which is guaranteed as Fundamental

 right under Article 21 of the Constitution as

 held in th e case of Mr. Ju s t ic e K.S.

 Puttaswamy V/ s Union of India

 reported in 2017(10) SCC Page.1.

2.16. The Special Court, however, by its order

 dated 15-10-2020, rejected the recall

 application holding that the Court can order 12 WP No.11759/2020 for Polygraph test and the order dated 23-09-

 2020 cannot be recalled by the same Court.

 2.17. It is aggrieved by the said order dated 23-09-

 2020, which is re-affirmed by order dated 15-

 10-2020, the Petitioner is before this Court

 seeking for the aforesaid reliefs. 3. On service of notice Shri. VeeranaTigadi learned

 special prosecutor has entered an appearance for

 the State and filed his objections; in the said

 objections, it is contended as under: After investigation, keeping open further 13 WP No.11759/2020 investigation interim final report was

 submitted to the Court. In continuation of the

 investigation and obtaining permission of the

 Court for further investigation, the Petitioner

 was apprehended and taken into custody.

 From the possession of the Petitioner

 incriminating evidence in the form of Mobile

 Phone, Laptop and other material objects

 seized and the property form prepared.

3.2. For the purpose of the investigation, it is

 necessary to open the Mobile Phones, other

 electronic gadgets seized from the Petitioner

 and the e-mails. The same is protected by

 passwords. Investigation Officer called upon

 the Petitioner to furnish the Passwords. The

 Petitioner refused to disclose the password of

 his Mobile Phone and e-Mail addresses. The

 Hon'ble Trial Court, by an order dated 14 WP No.11759/2020 04.09.2020, directed the Petitioner to co-

 operate and furnish the password to the

 investigating officer. 3.3. The order of the Trial Court was

 communicated to the Petitioner requesting

 him to furnish the password. In spite of the

 direction by the Trial Court the Petitioner did

 not furnish the password. On the contrary, he

 tried to contend that he has already provided

 the password, without having so provided.

3.4. It is on that basis that, Respondent No.2 filed

 an Application seeking permission of the Trial

 Court to subject the Petitioner to Polygraph

 test and the impugned orders passed.

3.5. On the facts and circumstances of the present

 case, the dicta laid down in the case of Selvi

 Vs. State of Karnataka reported in 2010 15 WP No.11759/2020 (7) SCC Page 263 is not applicable to the

 case on hand as subjecting the Accused to

 Polygraph test for the limited purpose of

 unlocking the mobile by using the password

 and to furnish the password to open e-Mail

 does not amount to 'right against self-

 incrimination.'

3.6. It is contended that the direction of the Trial

 Court to the Petitioner to co-operate with the

 Investigating Officer and to unlock the mobile

 password is legal. Unlocking the mobile

 password does not amount to self-

 incrimination, nor does it violate Article 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India; unlocking

 mobile phone and/e-mails by furnishing a

 password does not amount to self-

 incrimination. WP No.11759/2020 3.7. The contention of the Petitioner that the

 mobile phone contains his personal

 information which is protected under Right to

 Privacy cannot be accepted, the order of the

 Trial Court directing the Petitioner to co-

 operate in unlocking the mobile phone does

 not violate the Right to Privacy and does not

 amount to testimonial compulsion.

3.8. The Petitioner has not given the password of

 his mobile phone, or e-mail account, did not

 co-operate in the investigation; hence, the

 direction given by the Trial Court to unlock

 the mobile password of e-Mail addresses is

 justified and has not violated any rule of Law.

 The direction issued by the Trial Court to

 reveal the password to unlock his mobile

 phone and to open his e-Mail accounts does

 not amount to compelling him to be a witness 17 WP No.11759/2020 against himself, nor does it violate Section

 161 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

 3.9. Insisting upon the Petitioner for access to the

 data contained in his mobile phone does not

 amount to force him to reveal his personal

 information nor does it amount to self-

 incrimination. 3.10. On these grounds it is contended that the

 Petition is misconceived and is liable to be

 dismissed. 4. Shri Hasmath Pasha, Learned Senior counsel

 appearing for the Petitioner, submitted as under: Polygraph Test

4.2. The said order is in violation of the

 judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 the case of Selvi V/s State of Karnataka

 reported in 2010( 7) SCC page 263,

 wherein the apex court has clearly laid down

 that subjecting the accused to a Polygraph

 Test is vi o l a t i ve of 'right against self-

 incrimination' which is a fundamental right

 guaranteed under article 20 clause (3) of the

 Constitution, he relies on t he following

 paragraphs of the said judgement: By making inferences from the results of these
 tests, the examiner is able to derive knowledge
 from the subject's mind which otherwise would
 not have become available to the investigators.
 These two tests are different from medical
 examination and the analysis of bodily
 substances such as blood, semen and hair
 samples, since the test subject's physiological 19 WP No.11759/2020 responses are directly correlated to mental
faculties. Through lie detection or gauging a
subject's familiarity with the stimuli, personal
knowledge is conveyed in respect of a relevant
fact. It is also significant that unlike the case of
documents, the investigators cannot possibly
have any prior knowledge of the test subject's
thoughts and memories, either in the actual or
constructive sense. Therefore, even if a highly
strained analogy were to be made between the
results obtained from the impugned tests and
the production of documents, the weight of
precedents leans towards restrictions on the
extraction of "personal knowledge" through such
means. 185. During the administration of a polygraph
test or a BEAP test, the subject makes a mental
effort which is accompanied by certain
physiological responses. The measurement of
these responses then becomes the basis of the
transmission of knowledge to the investigators.
This knowledge may aid an ongoing investigation
or lead to the discovery of fresh evidence which
could then be used to prosecute the test subject.
In any case, the compulsory administration of
the impugned tests impedes the subject's right
to choose between remaining silent and offering
substantive information. The requirement of a
"positive volitional act" becomes irrelevant since
the subject is compelled to convey personal
knowledge irrespective of his/her own volition. 186. Some academics have also argued that the
results obtained from tests such as polygraph
examination are "testimonial" acts that should
come within the prohibition of the right against
self-incrimination. For instance, Michael S. Pardo
(2008) has observed [cited from Michael S.
Pardo, "Self-Incrimination and the Epistemology
of Testimony" [30 Cardozo Law Review 1023-46
(December 2008)] ,Cardozo Law Review at p.
1046]: WP No.11759/2020 187. Ronald J. Allen and M. Kristin Mace (2004)
have offered a theory that the right against self-
incrimination is meant to protect an individual in
a situation where the State places reliance on
the "substantive results of cognition". The
following definition of "cognition" has been
articulated to explain this position [cited from
Ronald J. Allen and M. Kristin Mace, "The Self-
Incrimination Clause Explained and its Future
Predicted" [94 Journal of Criminal Law and
Criminology 243-293 (2004)], Journal of
Criminal Law and Criminology, Fn. 16 at p. 247]: (internal citations omitted)

The abovementioned authors have taken a
hypothetical example where the inferences
drawn from an involuntary polygraph test that
did not require verbal answers, led to the
discovery of incriminating evidence. They have 21 WP No.11759/2020 argued that if the scope of the Fifth Amendment
extends to protecting the subject in respect of
"substantive results of cognition", then reliance
on polygraph test results would violate the said
right. 188. A similar conclusion has also been made by
the National Human Rights Commission, as is
evident from the following extract in the
Guidelines Relating to Administration of
Polygraph Test (Lie Detector Test) on an Accused
(2000): 189. In light of the preceding discussion, we are
of the view that the results obtained from tests
such as polygraph examination and the BEAP
test should also be treated as "personal
testimony", since they are a means for
"imparting personal knowledge about relevant
facts". Hence, our conclusion is that the results
obtained through the involuntary administration
of either of the impugned tests (i.e. the
narcoanalysis technique, polygraph examination
and the BEAP test) come within the scope of 22 WP No.11759/2020 "testimonial compulsion", thereby attracting the
protective shield of Article 20(3). II. Whether the involuntary administration
of the impugned techniques is a reasonable
restriction on "personal liberty" as
understood in the context of Article 21 of
the Constitution? 190. The preceding discussion does not
conclusively address the contentions before us. Article 20(3) protects a person who is "formally
accused" of having committed an offence or even
a suspect or a witness who is questioned during
an investigation in a criminal case. However, Article 20(3) is not applicable when a person
gives his/her informed consent to undergo any of
the impugned tests. It has also been described
earlier that the "right against self-incrimination" 191. In order to account for these possibilities,
we must examine whether the involuntary
administration of any of these tests is compatible
with the constitutional guarantee of "substantive
due process". The standard of "substantive due
process" is of course the threshold for examining
the validity of all categories of governmental
action that tend to infringe upon the idea of
"personal liberty". We will proceed with this
inquiry with regard to the various dimensions of
"personal liberty" as understood in the context of 23 WP No.11759/2020 Article 21 of the Constitution, which lays down
that: 192. Since administering the impugned tests
entails the physical confinement of the subject, it
is important to consider whether they can be
read into an existing statutory provision. This is
so because any form of restraint on personal
liberty, howsoever slight it may be, must have a
basis in Law. However, we have already
explained how it would not be prudent to read
the Explanation to Section 53 CrPC in an
expansive manner so as to include the impugned
techniques. The second line of inquiry is whether
the involuntary administration of these tests
offends certain rights that have been read into Article 21 by way of judicial precedents. The
contentions before us have touched on aspects
such as the "right to privacy" and the "right
against cruel, inhuman and degrading
treatment". The third line of inquiry is structured
around the right to fair trial which is an essential
component of "personal liberty". 193. There are several ways in which the
involuntary administration of either of the
impugned tests could be viewed as a restraint on
"personal liberty". The most obvious indicator of
restraint is the use of physical force to ensure
that an unwilling person is confined to the
premises where the tests are to be conducted.
Furthermore, the drug-induced revelations or the
substantive inferences drawn from the
measurement of the subject's physiological
responses can be described as an intrusion into
the subject's mental privacy. It is also quite
conceivable that a person could make an
incriminating statement on being threatened 24 WP No.11759/2020 with the prospective administration of any of
these techniques. Conversely, a person who has
been forcibly subjected to these techniques could
be confronted with the results in a subsequent
interrogation, thereby eliciting incriminating
statements. 203. This line of precedents shows that the
compelled extraction of blood samples in the
course of a medical examination does not
amount to "conduct that shocks the conscience".
There is also an endorsement of the view that
the use of "force as may be reasonably
necessary" is mandated by Law and hence it
meets the threshold of "procedure established by
law". In this light, we must restate two crucial
considerations that are relevant for the case
before us. Firstly, the restrictions placed on
"personal liberty" in the course of administering
the impugned techniques are not limited to
physical confinement and the extraction of bodily
substances. All the three techniques in question
also involve testimonial responses. Secondly,
most of the abovementioned cases were decided
in accordance with the threshold of "procedure
established by law" for restraining "personal
liberty". However, in this case we must use a
broader standard of reasonableness to evaluate
the validity of the techniques in question. This
wider inquiry calls for deciding whether they are
compatible with the various judicially recognised
dimensions of "personal liberty" such as the right
to privacy, the right against cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment and the right to fair trial. 226. Therefore, it is our considered opinion that
subjecting a person to the impugned techniques
in an involuntary manner violates the prescribed
boundaries of privacy. Forcible interference with
a person's mental processes is not provided for
under any statute and it most certainly comes
into conflict with the "right against self-
incrimination". However, this determination does 25 WP No.11759/2020 not account for circumstances where a person
 could be subjected to any of the impugned tests
 but not exposed to criminal charges and the
 possibility of conviction. In such cases, he/she
 could still face adverse consequences such as
 custodial abuse, surveillance, undue harassment
 and social stigma among others. In order to
 address such circumstances, it is important to
 examine some other dimensions of Article 2. Conclusion 262. In our considered opinion, the compulsory
 administration of the impugned techniques
 violates the "right against self-incrimination".
 This is because the underlying rationale of the
 said right is to ensure the reliability as well as
 voluntariness of statements that are admitted as
 evidence. This Court has recognised that the
 protective scope of Article 20(3) extends to the
 investigative stage in criminal cases and when
 read with Section 161(2) of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 it protects accused persons,
 suspects as well as witnesses who are examined
 during an investigation. The test results cannot
 be admitted in evidence if they have been
 obtained through the use of compulsion. Article
 20(3) protects an individual's choice between
 speaking and remaining silent, irrespective of
 whether the subsequent testimony proves to be
 inculpatory or exculpatory. Article 20(3) aims to
 prevent the forcible "conveyance of personal
 knowledge that is relevant to the facts in issue".
 The results obtained from each of the impugned
 tests bear a "testimonial" character and they
 cannot be categorised as material evidence."

4.3. The Petitioner is not willing or consenting for

 Polygraph Test, had there been an 26 WP No.11759/2020 opportunity provided to the Petitioner before

 passing the impugned order dated 23-9-

 2020, he would have mentioned the stand of

 'no consent for Polygraph Test'. Such

 opportunity not having been provided is a

 violation of his right against self-incrimination

 and right to privacy which are guaranteed

 under Articles 20 clause (3) and 21 of the

 Constitution

4.4. Therefore, involuntary Polygraph Test is

 prohibited under Law as laid down by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Selvi

 V/s State of Karnataka - reported in

 2010 (7) SCC Page - 263. 4.5. The decision of Selvi V/s State of

 Karnataka, has been approved by Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in a recent decision of 27 WP No.11759/2020 Toofan Singh V/s State of Tamilnadu

 reported in 2020 SCC online SC 82.

4.6. The principle of Selvi 's case has been

 reiterated in a case of

 Mr.JusticeK.S.Puttaswamy V/s Union of

 India reported in 2017 (10) SCC page 1.

Violation of Principles of natural Justice: Right to Privacy

4.10. Insisting the Petitioner to unlock his mobile

 phone which contains his personal

 information is violative of 'Right to Privacy' as

 held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 case of Mr.JusticeK.S.Puttaswamy'scase. 29 WP No.11759/2020 4.11. The order of Trial Court dated 14-9-2020

 directing the Petitioner to co-operate by

 unlocking the mobile phone is contrary to the

 principle of the right to privacy and amounts

 to testimonial compulsion, which is

 guaranteed as fundamental rights; in this

 regard, he relies on the following paragraphs

 in Mr.JusticeK.S.Puttaswamy's case. 249. Integrated together, the fundamental
 notions of privacy have been depicted in a
 seminal article published in 2017 titled "A
 Typology of Privacy" [ Bert-Jaap Koops et al., "A
 Typology of Privacy", University of Pennsylvania
 Journal of International Law (2017), Vol. 38
 Issue 2, at p. 566.] in the University of
 Pennsylvania Journal of International Law. The
 article contains an excellent visual depiction of
 privacy, which is presented in the following
 format: WP No.11759/2020 250. The above diagrammatical representation
presents two primary axes: a horizontal axis
consisting of four zones of privacy and a vertical
axis which emphasises two aspects of freedom: intimate relations and family life are an apt
illustration of spatial privacy; (iii) communicational privacy which is reflected 31 WP No.11759/2020 in enabling an individual to restrict access to
communications or control the use of
information which is communicated to third
parties; (iv) proprietary privacy which is reflected by the
interest of a person in utilising property as a
means to shield facts, things or information
from others; (v) intellectual privacy which is reflected as an
individual interest in the privacy of thought and
mind and the development of opinions and
beliefs; (vi) decisional privacy reflected by an ability to
make intimate decisions primarily consisting
one's sexual or procreative nature and decisions
in respect of intimate relations; (vii) associational privacy which is reflected in
the ability of the individual to choose who she
wishes to interact with; (viii) behavioural privacy which recognises the
privacy interests of a person even while
conducting publicly visible activities.
Behavioural privacy postulates that even when
access is granted to others, the individual is
entitled to control the extent of access and
preserve to herself a measure of freedom from
unwanted intrusion; and (ix) informational privacy which reflects an
interest in preventing information about the self
from being disseminated and controlling the
extent of access to information. 32 WP No.11759/2020 4.12. There is no specific law, enabling the taking

 away his right to privacy, or for a direction to

 be given by any court, either to give

 password of his mobile or to unlock the same

 and further to use the data contained in his

 mobile for the purpose of investigation.

4.13. Since the right to privacy is recognised as a

 fundamental right under Article 21 of the

 Constitution, to take away this fundamental

 right, even of an accused, there must be a

 law enacted by Parliament and the Law must

 meet the test of Article 21 as laid down in

 Maneka Gandhi's case i.e., it must be just,

 fair and reasonable not illusory.

4.14. Till today, no law is enacted by Parliament

 empowering any Court to give direction to

 accused to give password and information 33 WP No.11759/2020 contained in mobile phones. In the absence

 of this, the order of the Special Court dated

 14-9-2020 is not sustainable in Law.

Self Incrimination

4.15. Even during police interrogation, the accused

 is entitled to remain silent, therefore insisting

 on revealing passcode or to unlock his mobile

 phone and to open his E-mail accounts

 amounts to compelling him to be a witness

 against himself, which is in violation of Section 161 (2) of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure and also under articles 20 clause

 (3) and 21 of the Constitution. In this regard,

 he relied on the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court of United States in

 Miranda vs. Arizona [384 U.S. 436

 (1966) DD 13.06.1966]. WP No.11759/2020 In order fully to apprise a person interrogated of
the extent of his rights under this system then, it
is necessary to warn him not only that he has the
right to consult with an attorney, but also that if
he is indigent a lawyer will be appointed to
represent him. Without this additional warning,
the admonition of the right to consult with counsel
would often be understood as meaning only that
he can consult with a lawyer if he has one or has
the funds to obtain one. The warning of a right to
counsel would be hollow if not couched in terms
that would convey to the indigent--the person
most often subjected to interrogation--the
knowledge that he too has a right to have counsel
present. As with the warnings of the right to
remain silent and of the general right to counsel,
only by effective and express explanation to the
indigent of this right can there be assurance that
he was truly in a position to exercise it.

Once warnings have been given, the subsequent
procedure is clear. If the individual indicates in
any manner, at any time prior to or during
questioning, that he wishes to remain silent, the
interrogation must cease. At this point he has
shown that he intends to exercise his Fifth
Amendment privilege; any statement taken after
the person invokes his privilege cannot be other
than the product of compulsion, subtle or
otherwise. Without the right to cut off
questioning, the setting of in-custody
interrogation operates on the individual to
overcome free choice in producing a statement
after the privilege has been once invoked. If the
individual states that he wants an attorney, the
interrogation must cease until an attorney is
present. At that time, the individual must have an
opportunity to confer with the attorney and to
have him present during any subsequent
questioning. If the individual cannot obtain an
attorney and he indicates that he wants one
before speaking to police, they must respect his
decision to remain silent. WP No.11759/2020 This does not mean, as some have suggested,
 that each police station must have a 'station
 house lawyer' present at all times to advise
 prisoners. It does mean, however, that if police
 propose to interrogate a person they must
 make known to him that he is entitled to a
 lawyer and that if he cannot afford one, a
 lawyer will be provided for him prior to any
 interrogation. If authorities conclude that they
 will not provide counsel during a reasonable
 period of time in which investigation in the
 field is carried out, they may refrain from doing
 so without violating the person's Fifth
 Amendment privilege so long as they do not
 question him during that time." 4.16. Insisting the accused for decryption of data

 contained in his mobile phone amounts to

 forcing him to reveal his personal information

 and even if any information regarding the

 commission of this offence or any other

 offence is contained therein, he can refuse to

 do so as contemplated U/s 161 (2) of Cr.P.C .

4.17. In this Writ Petition also the Petitioner has

 asserted that he has right to remain silent

 during police interrogation also and insisting

 him to give the password of his mobile 36 WP No.11759/2020 phone, is contrary to his right to remain silent

 as held by the Apex Court in Nandini

 Sathpathy v/s P.L.Danis 1978 (2) SCC

 4 24, an d it amounts to testimonial

 compulsion hit by Article 20(3) of the

 Constitution. 4.18. Even in the famous decision of State of

 Bombay V/s Kathi Kalu Oghad reported

 in AIR 1961 SC Page 1808, in para 11

 which reads thus: 4.19. Therefore, insisting the Petitioner - accused

 to give password of his mobile phone is

 imparting his knowledge by oral testimony or 37 WP No.11759/2020 in writing which is a Special knowledge in the

 mind of accused, cannot be forced to give,

 particularly when there is no specific law to

 that effect, even if the Law is enacted, how

 for it meets the Test of Article 20(3) and 21 of the Constitution? 4.20. The Application filed by the second

 respondent police lacks sanction of Law, and

 the Court erred in not following the Law and

 therefore the impugned orders dated

 14-9-2020, 23-9-2020 and 15-10-2020 are

 all illegal and abuse of process of Law.

4.21. The Petitioner, in his Application dated

 3-10-2020 has stated that he has fully co-

 operated for investigation and he has denied

 the allegation of not giving the password to

 unlock the mobile phone and further denied 38 WP No.11759/2020 the allegation of non-co-operation in opening

 E-mail accounts. 4.22. The principle of a right to remain silent of the

 accused during the investigation is well

 recognised in the decision of U.S.A Supreme

 court in Miranda V/s Arizona, which is

 applied worldwide and also by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the decision Of Nandini

 Sathpaty V/s P.L.Danis a nd another

 reported in 1978(2) SCC Page 424.

4.23. Mobile of Petitioner is seized in this case. Any

 mobile phone can be decrypted by experts. If

 the expert decrypt the mobile phone. Then

 the data available in the said mobile phone or

 any other electronic documents, if it is of

 nature protected under right to privacy, the

 same cannot be used without the consent of 39 WP No.11759/2020 owner, and if no consent is given, it cannot

 be taken, without the authority of Law.

4.24. Section 45-A of the Evidence Act, only

 describes the relevancy of the opinion of the

 examiner of Electronic Evidence as

 contemplated under Section 79-A of the

 Information Technology Act 2000.

4.25. But these provisions do not specifically

 provide for taking away the fundamental

 rights guaranteed under Article 20 (3) and 21 , particularly the Right to privacy, is

 protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.

4.26. Therefore, the impugned orders dated 14-09-

 2020 and 23-09-2020, re-affirmed by order

 dated 15-10-2020, passed by the Hon'ble

 Special Court, take away the Constitutional

 Rights of Petitioner; hence those orders are 40 WP No.11759/2020 liable to be quashed. 5. Per Contra Shri VeeranaTigadi learned Special

 Public Prosecutor submitted as under: If the Petitioner had divulged the password,

 there would have been no requirement to file

 the Application. 5.4. The order dated 14.09.2020 directing the

 Petitioner to furnish the password does not

 violate any of his rights under

 5.4.1. Article 20(3) of the Constitution of

 India and Section 161(2) of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure, 1973; 5.4.2. Article 21 of the Constitution of India.

5.5. Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India

 provides that no person accused of an offence

 shall be compelled to be a witness against

 himself. In order to avail the benefit of this

 provision, the Petitioner must demonstrate 42 WP No.11759/2020 that: 12. In order that a testimony by an accused
person may be said to have been self-
incriminatory, the compulsion of which comes
within the prohibition of the constitutional
provision, it must be of such a character that
by itself it should have the tendency of
incriminating the accused, if not also of
actually doing so. In other words, it should be
a statement which makes the case against the
accused person at least probable, considered
by itself. A specimen handwriting or signature
or finger impressions by themselves are no
testimony at all, being wholly innocuous
because they are unchangeable except in rare
cases where the ridges of the fingers or the
style of writing have been tampered with. They
are only materials for comparison in order to
lend assurance to the Court that its inference
based an other pieces of evidence is reliable.
They are neither oral nor documentary
evidence but belong to the third category of
material evidence which is outside the limit of
"testimony". 13. Similarly, during the investigation of a
crime by the police, if an accused person were
to point out the place where the corpus delicti
was lying concealed and in pursuance of such
an information being given by an accused
person, discovery is made within the meaning
of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, such
information and the discovery made as a result
of the information may be proved in evidence 47 WP No.11759/2020 even though it may tend to incriminate the
person giving the information, while in police
custody. Unless it is held that the provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, insofar as they
make it admissible evidence which has the
tendency to incriminate the giver of the
information, are unconstitutional as coming
within the prohibition of clause (3) of Article
20 , such information would amount to
furnishing evidence. This Court in Sharma case
was not concerned with pronouncing upon the
constitutionality of the provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. It could not, therefore, be
said to have laid it down that such evidence
could not be adduced by the prosecution at the
trial of the giver of the information for an
alleged crime. The question whether Section
27 of the Evidence Act was unconstitutional
because it offended Article 14 of the
Constitution was considered by this Court in
the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Deomen
Upadhyaya . It was held by this Court that Section 27 of the Evidence Act did not offend Article 14 of the Constitution and was,
therefore, intra vires. But the question whether
it was unconstitutional because it contravened
the provisions of clause (3) of Article 20 was
not considered in that case . That question
may, therefore, be treated as an open one.
The question has been raised in one of the
cases before us and has, therefore, to be
decided. The information given by an accused
person to a police officer leading to the
discovery of a fact which may or may not
prove incriminatory has been made admissible
in evidence by that section. If it is not
incriminatory of the person giving the
information, the question does not arise. It can
arise only when it is of an incriminatory
character so far as the giver of the information
is concerned. If the self-incriminatory
information has been given by an accused
person without any threat, that will be 48 WP No.11759/2020 admissible in evidence and that will not be hit
by the provisions of clause (3) of Article 20 of
the Constitution for the reason that there has
been no compulsion. It must, therefore, be
held that the provisions of Section 27 of the
Evidence Act are not within the prohibition
aforesaid, unless compulsion had been used in
obtaining the information. 16. In view of these considerations, we have
come to the following conclusions: that is to say, as including not merely making
of oral or written statements but also
production of documents or giving materials
which may be relevant at a trial to determine
the guilt or innocence of the accused.

(4) Giving thumb impressions or impressions
of foot or palm or fingers or specimen writings 49 WP No.11759/2020 or showing parts of the body by way of
 identification are not included in the expression
 "to be a witness". (5) "To be a witness" means imparting
 knowledge in respect of relevant facts by an
 oral statement or a statement in writing, made
 or given in Court or otherwise. (6) "To be a witness" in its ordinary
 grammatical sense means giving oral
 testimony in Court. Case law has gone beyond
 this strict literal interpretation of the
 expression which may now bear a wider
 meaning, namely, bearing testimony in Court
 or out of Court by a person accused of an
 offence, orally or in writing. (7) To bring the statement in question within
 the prohibition of Article 20(3) , the person
 accused must have stood in the character of an
 accused person at the time he made the
 statement. It is not enough that he should
 become an accused, any time after the
 statement has been made. 5.9. The disclosure of the password by th e

 Petitioner in terms of the order dated

 14.09.2020 by itself does not incriminate the

 accused. Therefore, th e disclosure of

 password can be viewed as anything but self-

 incrimination within the meaning of Article

 20(3) of the Constitution of India. 50 WP No.11759/2020 5.10. The content of Section 161(2) of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure, 1973 is similar to Article

 20(3) of the Constitution of India. In fact, Section 161(2) of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure, 1973 merely extends right against

 "self-incrimination" to suspects and witnesses

 in addition to 'persons formally accused of

 commission of an offence'. RIGHT TO PRIVACY: DISCLOSURE OF PASSWORD: has been defined in Section 3 of the Indian

 Evidence Act inter al i a to mean " al l

 documents including electronic records".

 Therefore, the term "document" used in Section 139 of the Indian Evidence Act

 includes any electronic record in possession

 of the Petitioner. Thus, Section 139 of the

 Indian Evidence Act authorises the disclosure

 of the password by the Petitioner and hence

 the order dated 14.09.2020 does not abridge

 Petitioner's right to privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 5.15. That apart, Section 54-A of the Code of 53 WP No.11759/2020 Criminal Procedure, 1973 inter alia stipulates

 that,

 5.15.1. where a person is charged with
 committing an offence; and

 5.15.2. his identification is necessary for the
 purpose of investigation of an offence,
 the Court may direct the person so
 arrested to subject himself to
 identification by any person as the
 Court deems fit. 5.16. In the present case, the password is nothing

 but an 'identification mark' of the Accused/

 Petitioner by the service providers hosting his

 data. Therefore, the disclosure of the

 password is sanctioned by Law under Section

 54-A of the Code. 5.17. The disclosure of password is in the nature of

 giving specimen signatures or handwriting.

 Therefore, the disclosure of password can

 also be ordered under Section 311-A of the 54 WP No.11759/2020 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973.

5.18. In Ritesh Sinha v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2019) 8 SCC 1, the Supreme Court of India

 held that the Magistrate could order the

 collection of voice sample under Section 311-

 A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, despite

 there being no express provision to that

 effect, having regard to existing realities and

 imminent necessity of present situation.

 Therefore, given the fact that the disclosure

 of password is akin to giving specimen

 signature, disclosure can be ordered under

 the aforesaid provision. Hence, the order

 dated 14.09.2020 passed by the Trial Court is

 sanctioned by Law. In this regard, he relied

 upon paragraphs 5, 20 and 23 thereof, which

 are hereunder reproduced for easy reference: 55 WP No.11759/2020 dated 7-12-2012 [ Ritesh Sinha v. State of U.P. ,
(2013) 2 SCC 357 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 748] in
the following terms: ( Ritesh Sinha case [ Ritesh
Sinha v. State of U.P. , (2013) 2 SCC 357 : 3.2. Assuming that there is no violation of Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India,
whether in the absence of any provision in the
Code, can a Magistrate authorise the
investigating agency to record the voice sample
of the person accused of an offence?" On the one hand, it is not open to the accused to
dictate the course of investigation. Hence, we do
not find substance in the submission that the
text which is to be read by the appellants in the
course of drawing their voice samples should
contain no part of the inculpatory words which
are a part of the disputed conversation. A
commonality of words is necessary to facilitate a
spectrographic examination. 10. By our order dated 17-11-2015 [ Sudhir
Chaudhary v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2015 SCC
OnLine SC 1689, wherein it was directed:"Heard.
Mr S. Guru Krishna Kumar, learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the respondent State,
seeks a short adjournment to take instructions
from the experts concerned whether or not a
sample of words, in such number as the experts
may suggest, would suffice for the experts to
give their opinion by scientific voice sampling
methods. He may do so by Tuesday, 1-12-2015.
Post on Tuesday, 15-12-2015."] , this Court
allowed an adjournment to the Respondent to
seek instructions from the expert concerned
whether or not a sample of words in such
number as the expert may suggest would suffice
for the experts to give their opinion by scientific
voice sampling methods. Accordingly, a brief
note has been filed on the record stating that: 11. By an order of this Court dated 1-7-2016
[ Sudhir Chaudhary v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2016
SCC OnLine SC 1707, wherein it was
directed:"Arguments heard. Judgment reserved.
In the meantime, the investigating officer shall
file the transcript of the disputed conversation in
a sealed cover. We further direct that the
Director, Central Forensic Science Laboratory
(CFSL) shall file in a sealed cover proposed
passage of a written text, which the petitioners
herein shall be required to read out, for purposes
of giving their voice samples using words but not
the sentences appearing in the disputed
conversation in such number as the
Director/Scientific Officer may consider
necessary for purposes of comparison. Needful
be done within four weeks."] , the investigating
officer was directed to file a transcript of the
disputed conversation in a sealed cover. The
Director CFSL-CBI, was called upon to file in a
sealed cover a proposed passage of a written
text which the appellants shall be required to
read out for the purpose of giving their voice
samples using words, but not the sentences,
appearing in the disputed conversation in such
number as the Director/Scientific Officer may
consider necessary for the purpose of
comparison. 12. We are of the view that the aforesaid
directions which have been issued by this Court
would allay the apprehension of the appellants in
regard to the fairness of the process involved in 60 WP No.11759/2020 drawing the voice sample. Our directions ensure
 that the text which the appellants would be
 called upon to read out for the purpose of
 drawing their voice samples will not have
 sentences from the inculpatory text. Similarly,
 permitting the text to contain words drawn from
 the disputed conversation would meet the
 legitimate concern of the investigating
 authorities for making a fair comparison. 13. In pursuance of the directions issued by this
 Court the investigating officer has filed in sealed
 cover: (i) transcripts of the disputed
 conversations; and (ii) a proposed passage of a
 written text required to be read out by the
 appellants for the purpose of giving their voice
 samples. The passage contains words but not the
 sentences appearing in the disputed
 conversation. Having perused the contents of the
 sealed covers, we are satisfied that the
 investigating officer has complied with our
 directions. We order accordingly. 14. The order [ Sudhir Chaudhry v. State , 2015
 SCC OnLine Del 7457] passed by the High Court
 shall accordingly stand modified and be
 substituted by the aforesaid directions.

5.20. In Justice K. Puttaswamy's case (supra)

 the Supreme Court of India held that

 "prevention and investigation of crime" 66. As held by the Supreme Court in a catena of
judgments that there is a well-defined and
demarcated function in the field of investigation
and its subsequent adjudication. It is not the
function of the Court to monitor the investigation
process so long as the investigation does not
violate any provision of Law. It must be left to
the discretion of the investigating agency to
decide the course of investigation. If the Court is
to interfere in each and every stage of the
investigation and the interrogation of the
accused, it would affect the normal course of
investigation. It must be left to the investigating
agency to proceed in its own manner in
interrogation of the accused, nature of questions
put to him and the manner of interrogation of
the accused. 67. It is one thing to say that if the power of
investigation has been exercised by an
investigating officer mala fide or non-compliance
of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code in the conduct of the investigation, it is open to
the Court to quash the proceedings where there
is a clear case of abuse of power. It is a different
matter that the High Court in exercise of its
inherent power under Section 482 CrPC, can
always issue appropriate direction at the
instance of an aggrieved person if the High Court
is convinced that the power of investigation has
been exercised by the investigating officer mala
fide and not in accordance with the provisions of
the Criminal Procedure Code . However, as
pointed out earlier that power is to be exercised
in rare cases where there is a clear abuse of
power and non-compliance of the provisions 64 WP No.11759/2020 falling under Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal
Procedure requiring the interference of the High
Court. In the initial stages of investigation where
the Court is considering the question of grant of
regular bail or pre-arrest bail, it is not for the
Court to enter into the demarcated function of
the investigation and collection of
evidence/materials for establishing the offence
and interrogation of the accused and the
witnesses. Whether direction to produce the transcripts
could be issued 68. The contention of the appellant is that it has
not been placed before the Court as to what
were the questions/aspects on which the
appellant was interrogated on 19-12-2018, 1-1-
2019 and 21-1-2019 and the Enforcement
Directorate has not been able to show as to how
the answers given by the appellant are
"evasive". It was submitted that the
investigating agency Enforcement Directorate
cannot expect the accused to give answers in the
manner they want and the investigating agency
should always keep in their mind the rights of
the accused protected under Article 20(3) of the
Constitution of India. Since the interrogation of
the accused and the questions put to the
accused and the answers given by the accused
are part of the investigation which is purely
within the domain of the investigation officer,
unless satisfied that the police officer has
improperly and illegally exercised his
investigating powers in breach of any statutory
provision, the Court cannot interfere. In the
present case, no direction could be issued to the
Respondent to produce the transcripts of the
questions put to the appellant and answers given
by the appellant. WP No.11759/2020 5.24. Hence, the order dated 23.09.2020 does not

 warrant interference. 5.25. On the above grounds, he sought for

 dismissal of the Writ Petition. 6. Heard Shri Hasmat Pasha, learned senior counsel

 for the Petitioner, Shri Veerana Tigadi, learned

 Special prosecutor for the Respondent state and

 perused papers. 7. On the basis of the pleadings filed and the

 arguments advanced the points which arise for

 determination by this Court are: 8.1. Today technology has become all-pervasive,

 a telephone which was used in the past for

 communication now called a landline has

 given way to sophisticated instruments like

 smartphones which have computing powers

 probably thousand times more than that of

 computers of 90's leading to the mobile

 phone or a smartphone becoming the central

 device for running the affairs of the person. 68 WP No.11759/2020 8.2. The mobile phone,now called a smartphone,

 is truly smart and today is used for all

 purposes, one of which is as a phone for

 conversing with people.It may also not be

 wrong to say that the usage of a smartphone

 as a phone is the least used of its features.

8.3. The smartphone is being used today for

 various activities, including sending

 messages, conversing on social media like

 WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,

 Telegram, Signaletc., sending and receiving

 e-mails from various accounts, be their

 personal or official.Usage of the smartphone

 for the purpose of accessing the internet,

 browsing world wide web, etc. carrying out

 online transactions, online purchases either

 by internet browser or through specified and

 specific applications, storage of photographs, 69 WP No.11759/2020 documents, retrieval of the documents stored

 in the cloud or on a remote server etc., etc.,

 the list could go on and on. 8.4. Essentially today, a smartphone,in many

 cases, has replaced the laptop, which had

 replaced the office, and the smartphone by

 itself is an office for several persons.

8.5. The Law of Evidence and the Criminal

 Procedure Code that had been enacted long

 ago have also been amended from time to

 time to try and cater to the tremendous

 technological improvements, apart thereform

 the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT

 Act ) has been enacted and amended from

 time to time to cater to these technological

 improvements. WP No.11759/2020 8.6. The following definitions under IT Act would

 be relevant for consideration of the present

 matter: 2(ha) "Communication device" means cell phones, personal digital
 assistance or combination of both or any
 other device used to communicate, send
 or transmit any text, video, audio or
 image;] (i) "computer" means any electronic,
 magnetic, optical or other high-speed
 data processing device or system which
 performs logical, arithmetic, and
 memory functions by manipulations of
 electronic, magnetic or optical impulses,
 and includes all input, output,
 processing, storage, computer software
 or communication facilities which are
 connected or related to the computer in
 a computer system or computer
 network; (j) "computer network" means the
 inter-connection of one or more
 computers or computer systems or
 communication device through; (i) the use of satellite, microwave,
 terrestrial line, wire, wireless or
 other communication media; and (ii) terminals or a complex
 consisting of two or more 71 WP No.11759/2020 interconnected computers or
 communication device whether or
 not the inter-connection is
 continuously maintained; (k) "computer resource" means
computer, computer system, computer
network, data, computer data base or
software; (l) "computer system" means a device
or collection of devices, including input
and output support devices and
excluding calculators which are not
programmable and capable of being
used in conjunction with external files,
which contain computer programmes,
electronic instructions, input data and
output data, that performs logic,
arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication control and other
functions; (o) "data" means a representation of
information, knowledge, facts, concepts
or instructions which are being prepared
or have been prepared in a formalised
manner, and is intended to be
processed, is being processed or has
been processed in a computer system or
computer network, and may be in any
form (including computer printouts
magnetic or optical storage media,
punched cards, punched tapes) or stored
internally in the memory of the
computer; WP No.11759/2020 (r) "electronic form" with reference to
 information, means any information
 generated, sent, received or stored in
 media, magnetic, optical, computer
 memory, micro film, computer
 generated micro fiche or similar device; (t) "electronic record" means data,
 record or data generated, image or
 sound stored, received or sent in an
 electronic form or micro film or
 computer generated micro fiche; (v) "information" includes [data,
 message, text,] images, sound, voice,
 codes, computer programmes, software
 and data bases or micro film or
 computer generated micro fiche;

8.7. The following definitions in the interpretation

 clause of Section 3 of the Indian Evidence

 Act would be relevant: 8.8. In the past, when any document was marked

 in evidence, it was more often than not,

 restricted to a document in a physical

 format viz., one either written or printed on 74 WP No.11759/2020 a paper.Today a document could be both

 physical and electronic, in any form or

 formatsin different combination like binary,

 encrypted, etc.

8.9. Juxtaposing the above to the definitions of an

 electronic form and electronic record under

 the IT Act , it can be seen that the definition

 of these two phrases seek to encompass

 and cover all kinds of methodology of

 storing data, documents as an image,

 photographs, documents or

 otherwise.Essentially all kind of images,

 documents, etc. can be classified as data

 inasmuch as the data being information

 stored in a particular kind of media.

8.10. Though even earlier documents were

 referred to and used for the purpose of 75 WP No.11759/2020 evidence, essentially even at that point of

 time what it referred to was the data in the

 said document viz., the printed or written

 word in the document, therefore whether

 documentary evidence or electronic

 evidence essentially what one is dealing

 with is data. 8.11. It is this data that is required to be

 accessed by an Investigating officer for the

 purposes of carrying out an investigation;

 this data is required for the purposes of

 being referred to while a charge sheet is

 being laid, it is the data that would be

 considered by a Court of Law during the

 course of evidence and/or rendering of the

 Judgment. WP No.11759/2020 8.12. In the past, letters, postcards, Island

 letters, telex, fax were used for the purpose

 of communication.This communication

 essentially resulted in a hard copy being

 sent or printed at the recipient's end.This

 document, in i ts physical

 form,wasconsidered, relied upon as original

 document during the investigation process

 and later-on produced and marked during

 the course of evidence being led in a

 proceeding and considered by a Court.

8.13. Smartphones and/or computer equipment

 are becoming ubiquitous, hard copies/print

 outs/ books, filing cabinets, essentially

 anything on paper is becoming obsolete.

8.14. As aforestated, today this physical

 document has taken on an electronic 77 WP No.11759/2020 appearance, and these electronic

 documents/data could be stored on the

 mobile phone, computer or the like.More

 often than not, these smartphones,

 computers, servers, etc., are accessed only

 by using a password/passcode, including

 that by biometrics technology, facial

 recognition, iris recognition etc.Thus without

 having th e said password, passcode,

 biometric, no one can access either a

 mobile phone, computer or server.Some

 times even safes, filing cabinets, etc., are

 also locked using the above methodology.

 8.15. It is in this background that the above

 matter would have to be considered. 9. ANSWER POINT No.1: Can a direction be
 issued to an accused to furnish the password,
 passcode or Biometrics in order to open the
 smartphone and/or email account? 78 WP No.11759/2020 9.1. The Investigating Officer, during the course

 of an investigation, could always issue any

 direction and/or make a request to the

 accused or other persons connected with the

 matter to furnish information, to provide

 material objects or the like. These directions

 are routine in any investigation. Thus,

 during the course of the investigation, the

 Investigating Officer could always request

 and/or direct the accused to furnish the

 password, passcode or Biometrics, enabling

 the opening of the smartphone and/or email

 account. It is up to the accused to accede to

 the said request and or directions. If th e

 accused were to provide such a password,

 passcode or Biometrics, the Investigating

 Officer could make use of the same and gain

 an access to the same. WP No.11759/2020 10. ANSWER TO POINT NO.3: Can a Court issue a
 suomoto order to the accused to furnish a
 password, passcode or Biometrics?

 10.1.The Court cannot per se issue any directions

 to the accused to furnish the password,

 passcode or Biometrics and direction to

 cooperate would not amount to a direction to

 furnish password, passcode or Biometrics.

 The gathering of information and/or evidence,

 mode and methodology of investigation is in

 the exfaciedomain of the Investigating

 Officer. 10.2. The court by itself cannot suo moto order for

 furnishing of the password, passcode or

 Biometrics. The Court is not part of the

 investigation. The Court can only act on an

 application being filed by either of the

 parties. WP No.11759/2020 11. ANSWER TO POINT NO.4: In the event of a
 direction being issued and the accused not
 furnishing the password, passcode or
 Biometrics, what is the recourse available to
 an Investigating Officer? 11.1. In the event of the accused not providing the

 password, passcode or Biometrics, the

 Investigating Officer can approach the Court

 seeking for necessary directions to the

 accused to provide the same and/or carry

 out a search of the smartphone or any

 electronic equipment. 11.2. The Investigating Officer could approach the

 concerned Court seeking for issuance of a

 search warrant to carry out a search of the

 smartphone and/or electronic equipment. 12. ANSWER TO QUESTION NO.5: What is the
 consideration for the issuance of a search
 warrant in order to search a smartphone or
 computer system? WP No.11759/2020 12.1. The requirement for a search of a

 smartphone and/or electronic instrument

 could arise under two circumstances.

 12.1.1. Emergent circumstances

 12.1.2. During the regular ordinary course
 of the investigation

12.2. It is in light of these two circumstances that

 the nature and methodology of a search

 would have to be considered. 12.3. The Cr.P.C . provides a framework for carrying

 out a search of any premises or the like.

 There is no particular or different framework

 provided for the purposes of search of a

 smartphone or electronic equipment,

 computer, server etc. Thus, it is the

 framework under Cr.P.C . and to some extent 82 WP No.11759/2020 under the Information Technology Act , which

 would have to be made applicable to searches

 of these kinds. 12.4. Chapter VII of Cr.P.C . provides for search,

 seizure, production etc. Section 91 of Cr.P.C.

 enables any Court or any officer in charge of

 a police station to issue summons or order to

 the person in whose possession or power

 such a document or thing are believed to be

 requiring him to attend and produce it at the

 time and place indicated in the said summon

 or order. 12.5. Section 92 of Cr.P.C. provides the power to

 the District Magistrate, Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Court of Sessions or High Court to

 require the postal or telegraph authority for

 the purposes of investigation, enquiry or trial 83 WP No.11759/2020 to order the postal or telegraph authority to

 deliver the document, parcel or thing in the

 custody of postal or telegraph authority.

 Similarly, the Commissioner of Police or

 District Superintendent of Police may require

 the postal or telegraph authority to cause

 search, detain the document or parcel and

 produce the same before the Court. I t is

 pertinent to mention here that th e

 correspondence email etc., would be covered

 under the Telegraph Authority. 12.6. Section 93 of the Cr.P.C. provides powers to

 the Court to issue a search warrant

 12.6.1. On a person not willing to produce a
 document or a thing as directed
 under Section 91 of Cr.P.C., or

 12.6.2. Where the document or thing is not
 known to be in possession of any 84 WP No.11759/2020 person or

 12.6.3. Where the Court considers that for
 the purpose of any enquiry, trial or
 other proceedings, a general search
 or inspection would serve th e
 purpose. 12.7. In terms of Section 93 (2) of Cr.P.C., the

 Court could also restrict the search to a

 specific place, a specific time or a specific

 purpose. 12.8. Section 94 of Cr.P.C. confers power on

 certain Courts to search places suspected to

 contain stolen property, objectionable article,

 forged documents, counterfeit material,

 obscene objects, instruments or materials

 used for the production of any item under Section 94 (2) of Cr.P.C., and to take such

 action as may be required in terms of Section

 94(1) of Cr.P.C., thereof. WP No.11759/2020 12.9. In terms of Section 100 of Cr.P.C., in the

 event of any place being closed, any person

 residing in or being in charge of such place

 shall on demand of the officer or other person

 executing the warrant and on the production

 of the warrant allowing free ingress thereto.

 As also afford all reasonable facilities for a

 search therein. In the event of any person

 suspected to be concealing any article, a

 search of such person could also be made

 subject to however restrictions that a search

 of any woman could be made by a woman.

12.10. During the process of search in terms of Section 102 of Cr.P.C., any particular item

 could be seized by a person conducting a

 search on fulfilling certain criteria. 86 WP No.11759/2020 12.11. In view of the above, the said Chapter VII

 provides several powers to the Police or

 Magistrates, which could include the power to

 search and seize a smartphone, computer,

 server or any other electronic item or

 equipment. 12.12. A search and seizure of a smartphone can

 also be permitted in terms of the above

 provisions as contained in the Cr. P.C. As

 observed above, in terms of Section 100 of

 Cr.P.C., even a closed place can be searched

 by the persons searching directing any person

 incharge of a place to open the same and

 provide all facility. It is in the background of

 the above provisions that the aspect of

 search of a smartphone or electronic

 equipment, including an e-mail account will

 have to be considered. WP No.11759/2020 Search and Seizure in Emergent circumstances

 12.13. It may happen that there may arise certain

 emergencies or exigencies for a search of a

 smartphone or electronic equipment to be

 carried out like if the data is going to be

 immediately destroyed, there is a danger of

 equipment itself being destroyed, th e

 possibility of th e equipment n ot being

 available, etc.

 12.14. In terms of Section 102 of Cr.P.C., if there

 are any emergency circumstances, the Police

 Officer could seize the equipment; if there is

 any suspicion that either the object has been

 stolen or which create suspicion of

 commission of any offence. 12.15. The second aspect as regards of suspicion of 88 WP No.11759/2020 any commission of any offence is wide

 enough to cover a plethora of situation.

 Thus, in an emergent situation, the Police

 Officer could seize the electronic equipment.

12.16. In emergent circumstances, it cannot be

 expected of the Investigating officer to rush

 to a court of Law to obtain a warrant, such a

 requirement would amount to negating their

 powers and impinging on their functions.

 When there is adequate time to obtain a

 warrant, the same ought to be obtained,

 however, if an urgent search is to be

 conducted and it may be difficult to get a

 search warrant, certain safeguards will have

 to be observed and conditions fulfilled.

12.17. There must exist reasonable grounds for

 believing that it is necessary for carrying out 89 WP No.11759/2020 a search of the Smartphoe or Electronic

 Equipment with expediency and that if such a

 search is not conducted immediately, the

 conduct of the offence may be expedited

 and/or the evidence thereof be lost.

12.18. In such a scenario, there must be a recording

 in writing made by the Investigating officer,

 specifying in writing as far as possible the

 reasons for conducting such a search without

 a warrant. The objective satisfaction by such

 officer of the emergent nature of the search

 has to be recorded in writing in sufficient

 detail. Unless these conditions are fulfilled, a

 search without a warrant would be without

 jurisdiction, these conditions are necessary to

 safeguard the interest of the person and or

 organization searched, more so when a

 search so conducted would also impinge on 90 WP No.11759/2020 the right to privacy of such a person.

12.19. In terms of Section 165 of Cr.P.C., if the

 investigating officer during the course of

 investigation h as reasonable grounds for

 believing that anything required for the

 purpose of investigation would be found in a

 place within the limits of his police station of

 which he is incharge of or attached to, he

 may without delay after recording in writing

 the grounds for belief and specifying in

 writing as far as possible, the thing for which

 search is to be made, search any place within

 his limits of jurisdiction. However, the copies

 of any record made to conduct such a search

 would have to be sent to the Magistrate

 empowered to take cognizance of an offence

 and a record of the same. Though a search

 without reasons and without following the 91 WP No.11759/2020 procedure may be illegal, the illegality of the

 search would not make any seizure made

 during the search inadmissible as held by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Dr.Pratap

 S in g h vs. Director of Enforcement

 Foreign Exchange Regulation and others

 reported in (1985) 3 SCC 72. However, the

 Courts would have to be cautious while

 dealing with the evidence collected in such an

 illegal search. Search and Seizure during the regular ordinary
course of the investigation

12.20. If the search is required to be carried out in a

 normal an d regular course of an

 investigation, in that situation, the

 investigator or investigating agency would

 have sufficient time to plan out the manner of

 carrying out such a search as there being no 92 WP No.11759/2020 emergency or immediate requirement of

 carrying out such search. 12.21. The investigating officer could issue a notice

 under Section 91 of Cr.P.C., calling upon the

 accused or any other person to produce any

 particular document or equipment as stated

 above. If not so produced, a search warrant

 could be sought for from the Court of law. Be

 that as it may without issuance of a notice

 under Section 91 of Cr.P.C., a search warrant

 could be issued inasmuch as the issuance of a

 notice under Section 91 of Cr. P.C. is not a

 pre-condition for issuance of a search warrant

 under Section 93 of Cr. P.C. Once a search

 warrant is issued and received by the accused

 or any other person it would be the obligation

 of such person to permit the search and/or to

 provide document or thing called upon. 93 WP No.11759/2020 12.22. While issuing a search warrant, the concerned

 Court would have to indicate as to what

 smart phone, electronic equipment or email

 account is to be searched. The role of the

 same in the crime, the nature of search to be

 done, place where the search has to be done

 as also specifically interdict the persons

 carrying out the search from disclosing the

 material and/or data procured during the

 course of the said search to a third party. So

 as to preserve the privacy of the concerned.

12.23. The provisions referred to and mentioned

 deals with search and seizure. Electronic

 equipment occupies a slightly different

 position, in that it is not only the seizure of

 the phone and equipment, but once it is

 seized, the said equipment is required to be

 opened more often than not such equipment 94 WP No.11759/2020 are locked by password, passcode or

 biometrically. Thus, for the purpose of

 opening and/or accessing the data on the

 said equipment, it would be required for the

 accused or person in charge of the said

 equipment to provide a password, passcode

 or open the same using the biometrics.

12.24. As mentioned above, in terms of Section 100 of Cr.PC., a person in charge of a closed place

 is also required to permit such search and, in

 fact, facilitate such search. 12.25. Applying the said principle to a smartphone,

 electronic equipment or an email account, it

 would but be required for the accused or a

 person in charge of electronic equipment to

 provide the password, passcode or biometrics

 to open the Smartphone, computer 95 WP No.11759/2020 equipment or email account. 12.26. It is these aspects which have to be

 considered in the present circumstances. Section 69(1) of the IT Act empowers the

 specified officers to pass orders compelling

 the decryption of any information, generated,

 transmitted, received or stored in a computer

 resource which would also include a

 smartphone. 12.27. When the said authority is satisfied that it is

 necessary for the purpose of any

 investigation into any offence, however, an

 officer, before ordering such decryption, is

 required to record in writing the reasons for

 calling upon for such decryption and inform

 the person of the possibility of prosecution if

 he does not comply with a request. 96 WP No.11759/2020 12.28. Search and seizure are important weapons in

 the hands of the officers concerned therefore

 it is but required that such powers should be

 exercised with due circumspection and

 discretion, and the same should not result in

 harassment of innocent persons. When a

 search is made with a warrant, the procedure

 required to be followed is stated in the Cr.

 P.C, which need to be so followed. Even

 when a search is made without a search

 warrant, it would be treated that such a

 search or consequent seizure is

 conducted/made the safeguards enshrined

 under the Cr. P.C.

12.29. As observed above, the officers conducting a

 search are required to comply with the

 procedural requirements of Cr.P.C , some of

 them though not exhaustive,are enumerated 97 WP No.11759/2020 hereunder: 13.1. Since, as stated above, a smartphone can

 contain humongous data, which could also be

 incriminatory insofar as the person owning

 the said electronic equipment, including the

 smartphone, is concerned and it is in this

 background, we have to consider the

 providing of a password, passcode or

 biometrics and whether making available, this

 incriminatory material would amount to

 giving of testimony and or a statement in

 terms of Section 161 of Cr.P.C. 13.2. On a notice being issued under Section 160 of

 Cr.P.C., any witness could be examined by 101 WP No.11759/2020 the police, the witness could be the accused

 himself. 13.3. Such a statement needs to be reduced to in

 writing wherein such person is required to

 answer all questions relating to such case,

 other than the questions, the answer to

 which would have the tendency to expose

 him to a criminal charge or a penalty or

 forfeiture. That being a right to protection of

 self-incrimination as enshrined under Article

 20 of the Constitution of India. 13.4. Though Mr Tigadi, learned counsel for the

 Respondent contended that the disclosure of

 password is in the nature of giving specimen

 signatures or handwriting and therefore a

 direction could be issued under Section 311-A

 of the Cr. P.C, I'm of the considered opinion 102 WP No.11759/2020 that the providing of a password, passcode or

 biometrics is more than that, and a direction

 cannot be issued in that manner. 13.5. In the event of password, passcode or

 Biometrics being provided and th e

 Investigating Officer gaining access to the

 said smartphone and/or electronic equipment

 or email account, the data so gathered would

 have to be treated as any other document

 and/or object secured during the course of

 investigating like in the case of securing a

 murder weapon. The same does not by itself

 prove that the accused has committed the

 murder, similarly, the data gathered by itself

 would not prove the guilt of the accused. The

 data gathered would have to be proved

 during the course of the trial as done in any

 other matter. WP No.11759/2020 14. ANSWER TO POINT NO.7:Would providing a
 password, passcode or Biometrics amount to
 self-incrimination or testimonial compulsion?

 14.1. As regards the contention that providing of

 the password/pass code will amount to

 testimonial compulsion, I am of the

 considered opinion that there is no testimony

 which is given by the accused by providing

 the said password, passcode or biometrics by

 which the document is being accessed by the

 Investigating officer. 14.2. The XI Judge Bench of the Apex Court in

 Kathi Kalu Oghad's case has categorically

 held that providing of a thumb impression or

 impression of the palm or foot or fingers or

 specimen in writing or exposing a part of the

 body of an accused person for the purpose of

 identification would not amount to testimonial 104 WP No.11759/2020 compulsion. Mere providing of an access of to

 smartphone or e-mail account would not

 amount to being a witness, the information

 that is accessed by the Investigating officer

 on the smartphone and or the e-mail account

 being only access to th e data and/or

 documents, it is for the Investigating officer

 to prove and establish the same in a Court of

 Law by following the applicable Rules of

 evidence. 14.3. Merely because any document is present or

 available on the smartphone and or the e-

 mail account would not by itself establish the

 guilt or innocence of an accused. Both the

 prosecution, as also the accused/defence

 would be required to prove the said

 document or data by other evidence also. 105 WP No.11759/2020 14.4. If the submission of Mr.Hasmath Pasha,

 learned Senior counsel would be accepted,

 the same would result in a chaotic situation: incrimination since it is for the investigating

 agency to prove its allegation by cogent

 material evidence. 14.6. The data available on a smartphone or e-mail

 account would also have to be proved by the

 investigating agency in accordance with Law.

 Mere providing of password, passcode or 107 WP No.11759/2020 biometrics would not amount to answering

 any question put forward by the Investigating

 Officer, and as such, it would not amount to a

 violation of Section 151(2) of the Cr.P.C.

14.7. As contended by Sri.Veranna Tigadi, learned

 counsel providing of the password, passcode,

 pin, biometrics is akin to finger printing

 and/or taking imprints of the shoes, soles and

 or taking sample of the clothes, biological

 samples, chemical samples, etc, same cannot

 amount to forced testimony on part of the

 accused. On the examination of the data in

 the telephone/mobile and or on the

 computer, etc, prosecution would have to

 prove the same by cogent evidence.

14.8. By providing of password, passcode or

 biometrics, there is no oral statement or a 108 WP No.11759/2020 written statement being made by the accused

 like the Petitioner herein, therefore it can not

 be said to be testimonial compulsion. 15. ANSWER TO QUESTION NO.8:Would providing
 of password, passcode or Biometrics violate
 the right to privacy of a person providing the
 said password, passcode or Biometrics?

 15.1. This aspect is to be considered in light of the

 principles propounded by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in Justice Puttaswamy's case supra.

 More so, in view of the fact that the data

 which could be available on th e said

 electronic equipment being personal in nature

 could also be misused by the investigating

 agency and/or the investigating agency would

 come into possession of personal data which

 are held secret by that person which have

 nothing to do with the investigation at all

 more so since there cannot be a strict 109 WP No.11759/2020 compartmentalisation of data as personal or

 not personal in the said equipment belonging

 to a person or in the e-mail account.

15.2. Once the investigating agency has an access

 to a electronic equipment more particularly

 smart phones and/or laptops, th e

 Investigating Officer has a free access to all

 data not only on the said equipment but also

 any cloud service that may be connected to

 the said equipment, which could include

 personal details, financial transactions,

 privileged communications and the like.

15.3. The rules which are applicable to physical

 document where a particular document could

 be classified as a privileged communication

 and/or strictly private and confidential cannot

 apply to the data which is stored on a 110 WP No.11759/2020 smartphone or any other electronic

 equipment since once an investigating officer

 has an access to the said smartphone,

 electronic equipment or e-mail account, he

 would have complete access to the data.

15.4. Such data though may not be incriminatory,

 may be very private or secret to the person

 or such data could incriminate the said

 person in any particular offence.

15.5. The use of such data during the course of the

 investigation would not amount to a violation

 of the right to privacy and would come within

 the exceptions carved out in Justice

 Puttaswamy's case supra, however, the

 disclosure, making public or otherwise in

 court proceedings would have to be

 determined by the concerned judge by 111 WP No.11759/2020 passing a judicial order. In no case could

 such details or data be provided by the

 investigating officer to any third party during

 the course of investigation without the

 written permission of the court seized of the

 matter. The responsibility of safeguarding the

 information or data which could impinge on

 the privacy of the person will always be that

 of the investigating officer, if the same is

 found to have been furnished to any third

 party the investigation officer would be

 proceeded against for dereliction of duty or

 such other delinquency as provided. 16. ANSWER TO POINT NO.9:What steps could be
 taken if the accused or any other person
 connected with the investigation were to
 refuse to furnish a password, passcode or
 Biometrics despite issuance of a search
 warrant and or a direction to provide a
 password, passcode or Biometrics of that
 person? WP No.11759/2020 16.1. Though not argued or contended this Court

 would also have to take into consideration

 the possibility of the accused not co-

 operating inspite of above directions having

 been issued and/or providing apassword,

 passcode which is incorrect. 16.2. In the event of the accused not co-operating

 and not providing necessary password,

 passcode adverse inference could be drawn

 subject to the prosecution pointing out the

 nature of such adverse inference which could

 be drawn. 16.3. The second situation is even more dangerous

 inasmuch as the accused may provide a

 wrong password or passcode and or provide

 biometrics of a wrong person, and sometimes

 by way of the usage of such wrong password, 113 WP No.11759/2020 passcode or biometrics for more times than

 one, the device could either get locked and/or

 the data on the said device and the e-mail

 account could be wiped out automatically

 because a wrong password, passcode or

 biometrics has been used multiple times. The

 Investigating agency therefore has to be

 aware of and careful of this possibility.

16.4. The accused in such a situation is therefore

 required to be given only one chance to

 provide the proper password, passcode or

 biometrics to open the smartphone and e-

 mail account. 16.5. In both the above situations, the

 Investigating Agency would also be at liberty

 to engage such specialised agency as may be

 required in order crack th e password, 114 WP No.11759/2020 passcode or biometrics so as to have access

 to the smartphone and or the e-mail id. The

 accused cannot thereafter contest th e

 methodology used by the Investigating

 Agency to access the information on the

 smartphone or e-mail account since the

 accused having been given an opportunity to

 co-operate and provide th e password,

 passcode, or biometrics, has refused to co-

 operate and do so,

16.6. The rules of electronic device would apply to

 any data if sought to be made use of by the

 Investigating agency in a Court of Law. The

 Investigating agency would be at liberty to

 clone the smartphone and or hard disk of the

 smartphone, as also any data available on

 any cloud service to which the smartphone is

 connected to and make use of the same 115 WP No.11759/2020 during the course of investigation and/or

 trial. 16.7. Similarly the Investigating agency would be

 at liberty to block the access to the e-mail

 accounts once opened by changing th e

 password so that no one else apart from the

 designated officers would have access to the

 said smartphone, computer equipment or e-

 mail accounts. The data available on the said

 e-mail account could be downloaded and

 preserved, as also made use of by the

 Investigating agency for the investigation.

16.8. Thus the procedure that would have to be

 followed would be as under: 17.1. It is required for the Investigating Officer or 119 WP No.11759/2020 the search team to carry out the search in a

 proper and scientific manner, more so since

 what has to be searched in the electronic

 equipment, smartphone or email account.

17.2. Apparently, there are no rules formulated by

 the police department regarding the manner

 of carrying out a search and/or for

 preservations of the evidence gathered

 during the said search in respect of

 smartphone, electronic equipment or email

 account. 17.3. It would be in the interest of all the

 stakeholders that detailed guidelines are

 prepared by the police department in relation

 to the same. 17.4. Pending such formulation, it would be

 required that the following minimum 120 WP No.11759/2020 guidelines are implemented: free environment and temperature controlled.

17.9. While conducting the search, the

 investigating officer to seize any electronic 128 WP No.11759/2020 storage devices like CD, DVD, Blu-Ray, pen

 drive, external hard drive, USB thumb drives,

 solid-state drives etc., located on the

 premises, label and pack them separately in a

 faraday bag. 17.10. The computers, storage media, laptop, etc.,

 to be kept away from magnets, radio

 transmitters, police radios etc., since they

 could have an adverse impact on the data in

 the said devices. 17.11. To carry out a search of the premises to

 obtain instructions manuals, documentation,

 etc., as also to ascertain if a password is

 written down somewhere since many a time

 person owning equipment would have written

 the password in a bok, writing pad or the like

 at the said location. WP No.11759/2020 17.12. The entire process and procedure followed to

 be documented in writing from the time of

 entry of the investigation/search team into

 the premises until they exit. 18. ANSWER TO POINT NO;11:Whether the order
 dated 14.09.2020 passed by the Trial Court
 directing the Petitioner to co-operate with the
 investigating agency ad provide a password
 to open the smartphone and email account is
 proper? 18.1. The trial court in the present case has

 directed the Petitioner accused to co-operate

 with the Investigating agency and provide the

 password, passcode for the smartphone, as

 also for the e-mail account of the Petitioner, I

 am of th e considered opinion that the

 examination of a smartphone or an e-mail

 account is in the nature of a search being

 carried out, such a search cannot be so 130 WP No.11759/2020 carried out without a search warrant. The

 trial Court by merely directing the Petitioner

 to co-operate with the Investigating agency,

 the Petitioner cannot be forced or constrained

 to provide such a password, passcode,

 biometrics etc., for the purpose of opening of

 the smartphone and or an e-mail account,

 much less without recording reasons for the

 same. Th e process and procedure as

 discussed and detailed above would have to

 be followed. 18.2. For all the aforesaid reasons the order dated

 14.09.2020 passed by the trial directing the

 Petitioner to co-operate with the investigating

 agency ad provide a password to open the

 smartphone and email account is not proper

 or legal and is therefore set aside. Liberty is,

 however, reserved to the prosecution to file 131 WP No.11759/2020 necessary applications, which would be

 considered by the trial court in accordance

 with applicable law and discussion above 19. ANSWER TO POINT NO;12: Whether the order
 dated 23.09.2020 passed by the Trial Court
 directing the Petitioner to undergo a
 polygraph test violates the rights of the
 Petitioner under Article 20 of the Constitution
 of India? 19.1.The Trial Court, by its order dated

 29.03.2020, had directed the administration

 of polygraph test on the Petitioner. This order

 was passed on an oral request without there

 being an application filed by the prosecution

 and no opportunity having been provided to

 either the Petitioner or his counsel. The

 Petitioner was also not heard on the same nor

 was his consent obtained by the trial Court

 before the order dated 23.09.2020 was 132 WP No.11759/2020 passed. 19.2.Though it is contended by Sri. Veerana Tigadi

 learned Special prosecutor that the order

 dated 23.09.2020 only directed

 administration of a polygraph test and that no

 polygraph test would have been administered

 without the consent of the Petitioner; in my

 considered opinion, no such order could have

 been passed without having obtained the

 consent of an accused like the Petitioner.

19.3.In my considered opinion, there is no

 question of post-decisional hearing or

 consent, any consent of the accused would

 have to be obtained by the Court ordering the

 administration of polygraph test before

 directing so. The Apex Court in Selvi 's case

 (supra), the relevant paragraphs which has 133 WP No.11759/2020 been extracted hereinabovehas categorically

 held that there cannot be an administration of

 a compulsive polygraph test which would also

 mean that no order for administration of

 polygraph test made without obtaining the

 consent of the person on whom it is

 administered. 19.4. Merely because an accused is silent, neither

 accepts or rejects the administration of

 polygraph test would also not amount to

 consent being provided by the accused. Such

 a consent has to be categorical without any

 doubt and be made after being informed and

 made aware of the implication of the

 polygraph test and effect thereof.

19.5.The Judgment of the Apex Court in Selvi's

 case is categorical and clear about the 134 WP No.11759/2020 aspects of the administration of polygraph

 test. The details of Law as laid down by the

 Apex Court in Selvi 's case (supra) would

 have to be followed by investigating agency,

 as also by the trial Court. 19.6.In the present case, the Petitioner having not

 consented to administration of a polygraph

 test and in fact having challenged the same,

 refusing the administration thereof, had

 categorically indicated that he does not wish

 to be subjected to a polygraph test, I am of

 the considered opinion that no polygraph test

 could be administered on the Petitioner.

19.7.Hence, I answer the above question by

 holding that no polygraph test can be

 administered without obtaining the

 consent of the person to whom the 135 WP No.11759/2020 polygraph test is to be administered.

19.8.An application if any for such polygraph

 test has to be served on the said person

 on whom the polygraph test is to be

 administered, as also on the lawyer of

 the said person if so appearing. The

 effect and impact of the polygraph test

 and any answers given during the

 conduct of the polygraph test has to be

 clearly made known to the said person.

 The consent in writing to be obtained

 from such person before directing the

 administration of the polygraph test.

 Mere silence of the said person would

 not amount to consent on behalf of such

 person. If a person were to refuse the

 administration of polygraph test, no such

 polygraph test could be administered 136 WP No.11759/2020 and even if administered, the result of

 the said test would be void and cannot

 be considered by a Court of Law. 20. ANSWER TO POINT NO.:13: Whether the
 order dated 15.10.2020 passed by the Trial
 Court dismissing the Recall Application was in
 accordance with Law? 20.1. An application was filed by the accused to

 recall the order dated 23.09.2020 passed by

 the trial Court directing the petitioner to

 undergo a polygraph test. 20.2. On account of the answer given to Point

 No.12 above, I am of the considered opinion

 that the trial Court ought to have taken into

 consideration the decision of the Hon'ble

 Apex Court in Selvi 's case (supra) and once

 the trial Court had been informed and/or it

 was brought to the notice of the trial Court 137 WP No.11759/2020 that on account of the decision of the Hon'ble

 Apex Court a polygraph test could not be

 conducted without a consent of the person

 who has to be subjected to such a test, the

 trial Court ought to have recalled its order

 rather than dismissing the same. 21. ANSWER TO POINT NO.13: What order? 21.1. In view of the answers to the above question,

 the petition is partly allowed. 21.2. The order dated 14.09.2020 passed by the

 trial Court, directing the petitioner to furnish

 the password, passcode or Biometrics of his

 mobile phone and e-mail account is set-aside.

 21.3. The order dated 23.09.2020 passed by the

 trial Court, directing the petitioner to undergo

 a polygraph test is set-aside. WP No.11759/2020 21.4. The order dated 15.10.2020 passed on the

 recalling application does not survive for

 consideration. 21.5. Parties to bear their respective costs. Sd/- JUDGE

ln