This appeal preferred by the assessee is against the order of the Ld. CIT(A)-13,
Kolkata dated 02.01.2017 for AY 2014-15. 2. The sole issue of assessee's appeal is against the action of the Ld. CIT(A) in
confirming the addition of Rs.46,83,790/- made to the total income of the assessee by not
accepting the assessee's claim of Long Term Capital Gain (LTCG) on sale of shares of M/s.
NCL Research Ltd. (in short "NCL"). 3. Briefly stated facts as taken note by AO are that the assessee is an individual having
income from salary, capital gain and other sources. During the course of assessment
proceedings the AO observed that the assessee had claimed LTCG amounting to
Rs.46,83,790/- on sale of shares of M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. and M/s. NCL, which was
claimed as exempt u/s. 10(38) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the
"Act") as the sales transaction of such shares was subjected to Security Transaction Tax. Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

According to AO, on perusal of the documents he noticed that the assessee had sold 72800
shares of Unno Industries Ltd. for a gross sale consideration of Rs.9,68,240/- through
transactions on 07/03/2014. The history of it being, shares in the name of M/s Pinnacle
Vintrade Ltd. were purchased by the assessee from M/s. Uniglory Developers Pvt. Ltd.
numbering 80 @ Rs.1250/- per share for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- on 24.01.2012. The
company issued bonus shares @ 90:1 shares to the shareholders and the holding of the
assessee was increased to 7200 shares. In later stage, the Pinnacle Vintrade Limited was
merged with Unno Industries Ltd. and the shareholders of Pinnacle Vintrade Ltd. got 10
shares of Unno Industries Ltd. for each shares held by them. It was also noticed by the AO
that the assessee had sold 2780 shares of NCL for a gross sale consideration of Rs.
40,64,609/- through transactions on 02/07/2013, 04/07/2013, 08-08-2013, 12-08-2013 and
07-03-2014. The said 2780 shares of M/s. NCL were purchased for a sum of Rs. 2,64,050/-
(@ Rs.88/- per Share) on 28/03/2011 and 29/03/2011. The AO noted the script wise LTCG made by the assessee during the year as under: The AO noted that he had received information from the office of the DGIT(Inv.), WB,
Sikkim & NER ,Kolkata in respect of 'Dissemination of intelligence regarding tax evasion
by showing long term capital gains perpetrated through accommodation entry operators'.
According to AO, the said information was prepared after detail and thorough investigation
and it contains (i) the BSE listed penny stock which have been used for generating bogus
LTCG, (ii) list of share brokers,(iii) Modus operandi and (iv)LTCG summary in soft form
containing total amount of sale by individual beneficiaries along with the PAN and address
as given to the broker under KYC. After perusal of the aforesaid information, the AO
observed that the name, address and PAN of the assessee along with the name of the scrip
that the assessee sold, features prominently in the soft form of the information so received.
So a letter was issued to the assessee on 31.10.2016 requesting explanation/ clarification on
the issue involved. Pursuant to which the assessee replied vide letter dated 09.12.2016.
After considering the submissions of the assessee, the AO noted that the assessee has not 3 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

purchased or sold any other share except the said transaction and she is not a regular share
trader. According to AO, she has only made investment in these scrips anticipating a
windfall and claimed a substantial amount of LTCG, which is totally exempt u/s. 10(38) of
the Act. Moreover, AO noted that the scrip is not that of a blue chip company from which
substantial gain is expected. According to AO, this defies all logic and surrounding
circumstances also does not substantiate the claim of the assessee. As such, according to
AO, in view of the aforesaid and in the light of information received from the DGIT (Inv.),
WB, Sikkim and NER, Kolkata as well as detailed investigation made by SEBI it transpires
that the share transaction of the assessee is a kind of sham transaction to evade taxation and
to channelize her own fund from unknown sources to a legitimate form of income. Hence,
according to AO, the claim of the assessee in respect of exempt income under the head
LTCG is a bogus claim and therefore, a sum of Rs.46,83,790/- being gross sale
consideration of shares as credited in the books of the assessee was added back by the AO to
the total income of the assessee under the head undisclosed income. Aggrieved, assessee
preferred an appeal before the Ld. CIT(A), who confirmed the action of the AO. Aggrieved,
assessee has preferred this appeal before us. 4. We have heard rival submissions and gone through the facts and circumstances of the
case. The Ld AR submitted that the assessee sold her shares in M/s. NCL Research &
Financial Services Ltd. and that of M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. in the previous financial year
relevant to the assessment year under consideration and claimed it as exempt income u/s.
10(38) of the Act which has not been accepted by the AO and the Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. AR
drew our attention to the fact that similar action was taken by the AO/Ld. CIT(A) in respect
of Long Term Capital Gain on sale of shares of M/s. NCL Research & Financial Services
Ltd. and M/s Unno Industries Ltd which action has not been accepted by the Tribunal and
therefore prayed that assessee's claim need to be allowed and drew our attention to the
decisions of the Tribunal wherein such claims have been upheld: Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15 5. However, the Ld. DR vehemently supported the action of the authorities below and
drew our attention to the Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in SEBI Vs. Rakhi Trading Pvt.
Ltd. in Civil Appeal No. 1969 of 2011 with Civil Appeal Nos. 3174-3177 of 2011 and Civil
Appeal No. 3180 of 2011 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased to restore the
penalty levied by the Adjudicating authority of SEBI on the traders (i) Rakhi Trading Pvt.
Ltd., (ii) Tungrali Trade Place Pvt. Ltd. and (iii) TLB Securities Ltd. Therefore, according
to Ld. DR, the Hon'ble Supreme court has reversed the action of the Securities Appellate
Tribunal and restored the order of the Adjudicating Officer of the SEBI in penalizing the
traders for violation of the regulations of the SEBI's (Prohibition of Fraudulent and unfair
trade practice relating to Securities Market) in respect to traders. Therefore, according to
Ld. DR, this price rigging unscrupulous practice of the assessee had to be sternly dealt with
and, therefore, the impugned orders of the authorities below need not be interfered with. 6. Having heard both the sides, we note that the assessee is an Individual who filed her
return of income for the A.Y. 2014-15 on 27-03- 2015 declaring an income of Rs.
3,45,350/-. Her sources of income during the previous year were Commodities Profit,
Interest Income, Miscellaneous Income and long term capital gain on sale of shares. During
the previous year relevant to assessment year in question, the assessee earned Long Term
Capital Gain Rs.46,83,790/- from sale of share of M/S. NCL Research & Financial Services
Ltd. and M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. Since the sales transaction of these shares was subjected
to Security Transaction Tax (STT), such long term capital gain of the assessee was claimed
as exempt income u/s. 10(38) of the Act. During the course of assessment proceeding all the
relavent supporting evidences viz. purchase bill, registered broker's contact note/bill, D-mat
statement and bank statement etc. were filed. It was brought to the notice of the AO that all
the transactions were made through bank account. However, the AO referring to the report
by DGIT(Inv) and taking note of the unusual high price rise of the scrips did not accept the
share transactions as genuine, and held that the share transactions as bogus and added the
total sales consideration of Rs. 46,83,790/- to the income of the assessee denying the clam 5 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

of the assessee that income is exempt. On appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the order of the
AO. 7. We note that that during the previous year relevant to assessment year 2012-13 the
assessee on 28-03-2012 & 29-03-2012 purchased 3000 equity shares of M/s. NCL Research
and Financial services Ltd. (page 8&9 of paper book) through registered broker of Bombay
Stock Exchange ( pages 8 to 18 of paper book). Later, 2350 shares were sold during the
year resulting into long term capital gain of Rs. 38,19,923/-. Another long term capital gain
of Rs. 8,63,866/- was earned during the year on sale of shares of M/s. Uno Industries Ltd.
The facts leading to LTCG on this scrips sale was that assessee on 24-01-2012 purchased 80
shares of M/s. Pinacle Vintrade Ltd. at a cost of Rs. 1,00,000/- on which 7200 bonus shares
(page 22 of paper book) were issued on 20-07-2012 making her holding at 7280 shares
(page 24 of paper book). Later on as per scheme of arrangement approved by the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court the said company was merged with M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. and the
assessee was issued 72800 shares of M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. (page 26 of paper book).
These shares were sold by the assessee on 07-03-2014 & 18-03-2014 for a consideration of
Rs.9,63,866/- (page 27 of paper book) resulting into long term capital gain of Rs. 8,63,866/-
(pages 19 to 28 of paper book). We note that the sales transactions of both scrips were done
though the registered share broker M/s. Anand Rathi Securities Ltd. a corporate member of
Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. We note that during the course of assessment proceeding, the
assessee filed the following evidences to substantiate her claim viz. purchase bill; registered
brokers contact note/ bill, De-mat statement and bank statement etc. From a perusal of the
documents it reveals that the purchase and sales transactions were made through bank
account and the shares were held in De Mat account and sale transaction was carried out
through the registered share broker who was a corporate member of Bombay Stock
Exchange. 8. We note that AO/Ld. CIT(A) have not appreciated that the transaction of sale of
shares by the assessee was duly backed up by material/evidence including contract notes,
de-mat statement, bank account reflecting transactions, the shares having been sold on the 6 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

online platform of the stock exchange and each trade of sale of shares were having unique
trade number and trade time. It needs to be kept in mind that the stock exchange and SEBI
are the statutory authorities appointed by the Govt. of the India to ensure that there is no
rigging or manipulation. As stated earlier, the AO has not brought any evidence on record to
show that these statutory agencies have alleged any stock manipulation by the assessee or
the brokers or the company's scrip in question at the time when the assessee made the sale.
The shares were sold on the date mentioned in the contract note at the prevailing market
price duly recorded in the stock exchange. 9. We note that the coordinate benches of this Tribunal recent decisions have accepted
the claim of the assessee in similar facts when assessee has supported its claim with
evidence supporting the claims as done by the assessee in this case. We note that in
Dolarrai Hemani vs. ITO (ITA No. 19/Kol/2014)(AY 2005-06) (Dt. 02.12.2016), wherein it
has been observed in similar case by the Tribunal as under: - 10. We note that in similar facts the Tribunal took the same view - 1. Surya Prakash Toshniwal HUF, vs. Income Tax Officer, Ward - 41(3), ITA No.
 1213/KOL/2016 dated 11/01/2017 2. Deputy Commissioner of Income-Tax vs. Sunita Khemka in I T A Nos. 714 to
 718/Kol/2011 dated 28.10.2015. 3. ITO vs. Rajkumar Agarwal in ITA No. 1330 (Kol) of 2007 dated 10.08.2007. Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15 4. Manish Kumar Baid & Anr. V. A.C.I.T. ITA No. 1236,1237/KoI/2017. 5. Kiran Kothari (HUF) vs. Income-Tax Officer Wd. 35(3) ITA No. 443/Kol/2017
 dated 15.11.2017. 11. We note that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) have rejected these
evidences filed by the assessee by referring to "Modus Operandi" of persons for earning
long term capital gains which is exempt from income tax. All these observations we note
are general in nature and not against the action of assessee or her broker. We note
evidences/material/documents to prove the transactions which were produced by the
assessee are not controverted by the revenue authorities. We note that no material
purportedly collected from third parties and is referred to draw adverse inference against the
assessee was confronted to the assesses and no opportunity of cross-examination of persons,
on whose statements the revenue relies to draw adverse inference against the assessee was
provided to the assessee. So, the addition based on a general report study of the
investigation wing cannot be the sole basis of rejecting the claim of the assessee. 12. In this case, we note that the legal evidence produced by the assessee has been given
no credence to by the AO/CIT(A) and they have been carried away by the general
observations based on certain statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery of
the modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced
during investigations. There might by persons involved in the unscrupulous activity of price
rigging etc. But it has to be established in each case, by the party alleging so. The chain of
events and the live link of the assessee's action exposing her involvement in the scam
should be brought out/unearthed. The allegation of AO implies that cash was paid by the
assessee and in return the assessee received LTCG by way of cheque through Banking
channels, which is income exempt from income tax. This allegation that cash had changed
hands, has to be proved with evidence, by the revenue. Evidence gathered by the Director
Investigation's office by way of unknown parties statements recorded which admittedly has
been recorded behind the back of the assessee has been relied upon by the revenue to make
any additions. When such actions are carried out, the AO has to ensure to give copies of the 8 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

adverse material/statement given to the assessee and allowed the assessee an opportunity of
cross examination, if the AO is going to rely on any adverse statements of third party as
evidence to draw adverse inference against the assessee. If any material or evidence is
sought to be relied upon by the AO, he has to confront the assessee with such material. The
claim of the assessee cannot be rejected based on mere conjectures unverified evidence
under the pretentious garb of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human
behavior by the department. 13. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be used against an
assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is given an opportunity to controvert
the evidence. We note that neither the evidence based on which the DDIT report is prepared
is not brought on record by the AO nor is it given to the assessee to rebut. 14. In our view, just the modus operandi, generalization, preponderance of human
probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the assessee in the light of
documents filed by assessee to substantiate the transaction. Unless specific evidence is
brought on record to controvert the validity and correctness of the documentary evidences
produced, the same cannot be rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Omar Salav Mohamed Sait reported in (1959) 37 ITR 151 (S C) had held that no
addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and conjectures. In the case of CIT(Central), Kolkata vs. Daulat Ram Rawatmull reported in 87 ITR 349, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that, the onus to prove that the apparent is not the real is on the party
who claims it to be so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the fact of bogus
transaction or establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably raising an interference to
that effect. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Umacharan Shah & Bros. Vs. CIT 37
ITR 271 held that suspicion however strong, cannot take the place of evidence. 15. We find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) has been guided by the
report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to bogus capital gains transactions. Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

However, we do not find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A), have brought
out any part of the investigation wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and
/or found to be a part of any arrangement for the purpose of generating bogus long term
capital gains. Nothing has been brought on record to show that the persons investigated,
including entry operators or stock brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion
with them. In absence of such finding how is it possible to link their wrong doings with the
assessee. In fact, the investigation wing is a separate department which has not been
assigned assessment work and has been delegated the work of only making investigation. The Act has vested widest powers on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to
conduct proper and detailed inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax evasion
and after making proper inquiry and collecting proper evidences the matter should be sent to
the assessment wing to assess the income as per law. We find no such action executed by
investigation wing as against the assessee. In absence of any finding specifically against the
assessee in the investigation wing report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or linked
to the wrong acts of the persons investigated. In this case, in our view, the Assessing Officer
at best could have considered the investigation report as a starting point of investigation.
The report only informed the assessing officer that some persons may have misused the
scrip for the purpose of collusive transaction. The Assessing Officer was duty bound to
make inquiry from all concerned parties relating to the transaction and then to collect
evidences that the transaction entered into by the assessee was also a collusive transaction.
We, however, find that the Assessing Officer has not brought on record any evidence to
prove that the transactions entered by the assessee which are otherwise supported by proper
third party documents are collusive transactions. 16. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram
vs. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on background of
suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: 17. The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the case of the
assessee. In our view, the assessing officer having failed to bring on record any material to
prove that the transaction of the assessee was a collusive transaction could not have rejected
the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in this case nothing has been found against
the assessee with aid of any direct evidences or material against the assessee despite the
matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax Department hence in our
view under these circumstances nothing can be implicated against the assessee. 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the Courts of law.
That cross-examination is one part of the principles of natural justice has been laid down in the following judgments: b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex., Kolkata-II wherein it was held
that: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the assessee has declared bogus
LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPUR ITAT in the case of VIVEK AGARWAL[ITA No.292/JP/2017]order dated
06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9 Para 3: c)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of PREMPAL GANDHI[ITA-
95-2017(O&M)] dated18.01.2018 at vide Page 3 Para 4 held as under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: d) The BENCH "D"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of GAUTAM PINCHA[ITA
No.569/Kol/2017]order dated 15.11.2017 held as under vide Page 12 Para 8.1: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN KOTHARI HUF [ITA
No. 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held vide Para 9.3 held as under: f) The BENCH "A"OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of SHALEEN KHEMANI[ITA
No.1945/Kol/2014]order dated 18.10.2017 held as under vide Page 24 Para 9.3: g) The BENCH "H"OF MUMBAIITAT in the caseof ARVINDKUMAR JAINHUF[ITA
No.4682/Mum/2014]order dated 18.09.2017 held as under vide Page 6 Para 8: Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15 h)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court inthe case ofVIVEK MEHTA[ITA No. 894
OF2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide Page 2 Para 3 held as under: i) The Hon'ble Jurisdictional Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs. Bhagwati Prasad
Agarwal in I.T.A. No. 22/Kol/2009 dated 29.04.2009 at para 2 held as follows: j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohit kumar Kapadia order
dated 04.05.2018 upheld the following proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble Gujrat
High Court as under: 20. We note in the present case that the AO did not find any fault/infirmity in the
document/supporting evidences filed by the assessee to substantiate its claim. The
documents filed by the assessee are records of the transaction which happened in the
platform of SEBI authorized Stock Exchange, which was carried out through authorized
broker of Bombay Stock Exchange of scrips which were held in Demat account and
consideration rising from the purchase/sale which were through the banking channel cannot 17 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

be held to be bogus, without the AO returning a finding that these documents filed by
assessee are false, concocted or fabricated. Without doing so, based on a general
report/study by the DIT (Inv.) that the scrips on which the assessee received LTCG cannot
be held to be bogus. Here in this case the Ld. DR vehemently relied on the order of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. (supra) which we see does not come to
the aid of Revenue. Here, in this case, the Hon'ble Apex Court while adjudicating the action
of Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) reversed SAT decision in respect of three traders
and restored the penalty levied by the adjudicating authority of SEBI, whereas in respect of
three brokers, the Hon'ble Supreme Court upheld the action of Securities Appellate Tribunal
deleting the penalty levied against the brokers namely (i) India Bolt Securities Ltd., (ii)
Angel Capital & Debt Market Ltd. and (iii) Prashant Jayantilal Patel. The Hon'ble Apex
Court approved the view of SAT in respect of brokers by observing "As far as brokers are
concerned, we are of the view that is hardly any evidence on their involvement so as to
proceed against them for violation of Regulation 7A of the Broker Regulation. Merely
because a broker facilitated a transaction, it cannot be said that there is violation of
Regulation of SEBI has not provided any material to suggest negligence or connivance on
the part of the brokers." However we note that in the case of traders, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court restored the penalty because the Hon'ble Supreme Court found that the traders in the
facts of that case were involved not only in synchronized trading; but also in trade reversals
which indicated that the parties did not intended to transfer beneficial ownership and
through these orchestrated transactions, intention of which was not regular trading, and also
by this practice other investors have been excluded in participating in these trades. It was
also noted from the facts of that case by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that when the trade was
not synchronizing , the traders placed it at unattractive prices which was also a strong
indication that the traders intended to play with the market. Thus, we note that the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has found as a matter of fact that the traders by their actions/transaction
deprived other market players from full participation. The repeated reversals and
predetermined arrangement to book profits and losses respectively made it clear that parties
were not trading in normal sense and ordinary course. The Hon'ble Supreme Court found
that by synchronization and rapid reverse trade done by traders, the price discovery itself 18 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

was affected. It was also found as a matter of fact that except the parties who have pre-fixed
the price, nobody was in a position to participate in the trade. Thus Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that these facts had an impact on the fairness, integrity and transparency of the stock
market and these facts go on to show that traders indulged in the alleged transactions
(specifically charged transactions spelled out by SEBI in those cases) tantamount, to
violation of the regulations of the SEBI's (Prohibition of Fraudulent and unfair trade
practice relating to Securities Market) in respect to traders therefore, in the aforesaid factual
matrix, the traders were penalized. However, as stated earlier the decision of SAT to delete
the penalty on the brokers was accepted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, so we note that the
charges levelled against the traders in the facts of those cases indicated their hand in
manipulating the market by various acts which have been mentioned (supra). So the
Hon'ble Supreme Court restored the penalty on them, which is not the case before us. Here,
the AO has not brought anything on record to show that assessee or the broker on
instruction from assessee took part in or entered into transactions in scrips with the intention
to artificially raise or depress the price and thereby automatically induced the innocent
investors in the market to buy/sell their stock. It is not the case of the AO that assessee or
broker as per instruction from assessee has manipulated the prices of the scrip. Even the
market regular SEBI has not made any such specific finding in its report against the
assessee. In any case, if the AO had any adverse material against the assessee, he was duty
bound to furnish a copy to assessee and granted her an opportunity to rebut the same and
also provided an opportunity to cross examine if the material adverse to assessee is used
against the assessee to draw adverse inference as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
plethora of cases [supra]. 21. We also note that the coordinate benches in the case of Gautam Pincha Vs. ITO, ITA
No.s. 644 & 645/Kol/2018 dated 24.0.2018 have upheld the assessee's claim of LTCG on
purchase and sale of shares of M/s. NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd. for AY 2014-
15, as in the instant case before us. So respectfully following the aforesaid decision and
also taking note of the documents filed before us (paper book pages 8 to 18) from which we
note that assessee has discharged its onus to prove the genuineness of the transaction by 19 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

filing the contract note of Purchase (8 to 9 PB) through registered broker of Bombay Stock
Exchange (M/s. Anand Rathi Securities Ltd. and the purchases having taken place through
bank transaction (page 10 to 11PB) and sale of scrips is evidence by contract note of sale
(page 12 to 16 PB) through registered broker of Bombay Stock Exchange (M/s. Anand
Rathi Securities Ltd.) and transaction happened through banking transaction (page 17 to 18
of paper book). Since AO/Ld. CIT(A) could not find any fault or specific adverse materials
against the assessee/broker/ or scrips of M/s. NCL, the addition u/s. 68 cannot be sustained.
The addition based on a common/general report/study of DIT (Inv.) and there is nothing in
the report specifically against the assessee, cannot be the basis for making the addition or
draw adverse inference against the assessee so the action of AO/Ld. CIT(A) cannot be
sustained and, therefore, the claim of exempt income on LTCG on sale of scrips of M/s.
NCL has to be allowed and, therefore, the addition on this issue is directed to be deleted. 22. We note that the coordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Prakash Chand
Bhutoria ITA No. 2394/Kol/2017 dated 27.06.2018 upheld the assessee's claim of LTCG on
sale of shares of M/s. Unno Industries Ltd. for AY 2014-15, as in the instant case before us
so respectfully following the decision and also taking note of the documents filed before us
(paper book page 19 to 31) from which we note that assessee has discharged its onus to
prove the genuineness of the transaction of the purchase of shares by filing the share
certificate along with share transfer advice of Pinnacle Vintrade Ltd (pages 19 to 21PB) and
the purchases having taken place through bank transaction (page 23 PB) and later bonus
share allotment letter (page 25PB) and bonus share certificate (page 24 PB) and thereafter
by virtue of Amalgamation scheme allotment letter of M/s Unno Industries Ltd (page 26
PB) which were sold through registered broker of Bombay Stock Exchange (M/s. Anand
Rathi Securities Ltd). and sale of scrips is evidence by contract note of sale (page 27 PB)
and transaction happened through banking transaction (page 28 of paper book). Since
AO/Ld. CIT(A) could not find any fault or specific adverse materials against the
assessee/broker/ or scrips of M/s. NCL, the addition u/s. 68 cannot be sustained. The
addition based on a common/general report of DIT (Inv.) and there is nothing in the report
specifically against the assessee, cannot be the basis for making the addition or draw 20 ITA No. 731/Kol/2018 Smt. Minu Gupta, AY 2014-15

adverse inference against the assessee. So the action of AO/Ld. CIT(A) cannot be sustained
and therefore, the claim of exempt income on LTCG on sale of scrips of M/s. NCL has to be
allowed and, therefore, the addition on this issue is directed to be deleted. 23 In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 1 Appellant - Smt. Minu Gupta, 132, Cotton Street, 1st floor, Kolkata-700 007. 2 Respondent - ITO, Ward-44(1), Kolkata.