This is a petition under Sec.34 of Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 filed by the petitioner and sought for to set aside the

award dated 14.09.2018 in appeal (AM No.CM/B-0001/2018)

passed by the Appellate Tribunal and uphold the award dated

04.05.2018 passed in arbitration matter (AM No.CM/B-0001/2018)

by the Arbitration Tribunal consisting of retired justice N. Kumar,

Mr. M.P. Kunju and Sri. N. Nityananda and direct the respondent

No.1 to return 3,457 shares of HDFC, 2063 shares of HDFC bank

and 300 shares of Deepak Fertilizer or alternatively to direct the

respondent No.1 to pay a sum of Rs.92,47,906.80/- with interest

@ 18% from 31.10.2007 till its realization. 2. Brief facts of the petition are as under: 3. The petitioner in her petition has further alleged that after

demise of her husband, the representatives of Way 2 Wealth

Brokers Pvt Ltd approached her in the year 2011 to forego the

joint demat account and open an individual demat account and to

transfer the stock balance, since she had absolutely no

knowledge of the stock market or the stock trade. She has trusted

Way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt Ltd. completely with the said stocks

and she has simply inherited the stocks from her husband and

had left in the demat account and survived on its dividends

thereof and she has no proper formal education and currently she 5 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 is aged about 86 years as her marriage was taken place in the

year 1947 and she had been a full time home maker. After the

death of her husband she has totally lost track of the said demat

account and one or two occasions had called Way 2 Wealth

Brokers Pvt Ltd to confirm her existence of demat account and to

ascertain whether any demat charges were payable, however

way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd., neither sent the holding

statements nor collected any demat charges from her. The Way 2

Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd. are ought to have been under well

established KYC Rules and industry practices and well aware of all

the facts, but in the year 2013 the Way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd.

sent one Jayashree Ramapriyan Virgo Money Manager asking her

to furnish KYC details, accordingly she has claiming to be sub-

agent of Way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd. took her signatures on

several partly filled forms stating that all the bank details etc of

the demat holders have been to be obtained. As per the SEBI NSE

norms to retain the demat account and she has obtained her

signatures by means of undue influence and fraud and she has

having complete faith and belief absolutely unaware of the

particulars regarding the partly filled forms signed the same.

Herself and her son Krishan Chittoor a Lawyer in the New York

intimated her that the stocks is not worthless than Rs.75,00,000/-

as on July 2016 advised her to close the demat account and to

encash the shares, since she was not in a position to manage her 6 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 affairs due to her age. Therefore, she has approached Way 2

Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd. requesting to close the demat account

and to return the shares and the Way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd

sent Smt. Jayashree Ramapriyan to her house to effect transfer of

the shares and she has gave instructions to transfer the shares in

favour of her daughter Lalitha Murthy and Jayashree Ramapriyan

obtained her signatures in the blank transfer form in good faith

and trusting completely and she has signed the same not

knowing the consequence thereof, then she was discovered both

Way 2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd and Jayashree Ramapriyan in

criminal conspiracy have misappropriated and swindled all her

stocks and in its place have transferred some other shares in

favour of her daughter Lalitha Murthy on 27.07.2016 which are

stated below: 4. The petitioner in her petition has alleged that she never

traded or transferred a single share out of demat account from 7 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 November 2009 till this day, only 100 shares of HDFC were sold

by her on 13.07.2012 and cheque of Rs.60,000/- has been

handed over for the sale proceeds, but both Way 2 Wealth

Brokers Pvt. Ltd and Jayashree Ramapriyan taking advantage of

her ignorance and old age, have threw manipulation, defraud it

her stock currently worth nearly Rs.97,75,662/- and duped her

but none of the shares which stated above i.e. Sl. No.1,4,5,6,8,10

were not purchased or acquired at any point of time and she

never pay in or pay out as per NSE/ SEBI norms in her favour and

she has no knowledge of trading or buying or selling of shares,

but they have canned her and guilty of misfeasance and cheating

her for wrongful gain by playing fraud and forgery. 5. The petitioner in her petition has further alleged that she

got issued legal notice to the respondent No.1 on 12.08.2016 and

23.11.2016 through her advocate and the respondent No.1 has

sent untenable reply stating that they have power to sell

unilaterally thereby she has lodged the complaint with the

Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on 28.01.2017. The

respondent No.1 had no documents pay in, pay out details, dis

market slips, communications, so SEBI forwarded her complaint

to the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. for redressal. Thus

the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., constituted a 3

member investor grievance resolution panel (IGRP) to investigate

the complaint under the NSC Rules consisting of Mr. Basavaraju 8 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 M. Salimutt, Mr. Shankar Kuppa Poojary and Mr. D. Nagesh Babu.

The respondent No.1 has furnished the statement of account for

the 1st time before the IGRP in complaint No.17092111150200211

with regard to demat account No.10203369 from 01.04.2009

onwards. So it is evident from the said transaction cum holding

statement which produced by the respondent No.1 before IGRP

read with SMS logs that there were no SMS sent in the period

16.07.2011 to 11.04.2012 during which shares were sold which

proved that the respondent No.1 has indulged in unauthorized

and false trading during the period to make wrongful gains. So

IGRP conducted a detailed enquiry and directed the respondent

No.1 to produce authorization letter of having sold the shares,

holding statement from November 2009 proof of updatation of

mobile number and email I.D. and asked to disclose the owner of

the mobile and for production of document to show payment

which made to her dis slips, DP transfer statement etc. The

respondent No.1 systematically made fraud of misappropriation

of her shares. Therefore, it has been discovered that the phone

number which stated by the respondent No.1 is belongs to his

employee namely Arun Kumar and the email [email protected] was fraudulently created by the

respondent No.1 to divert all emails and messages regarding

transactions and misappropriate of shares, thereby IGRP held way

2 Wealth Brokers Pvt. Ltd and its sub-broker Smt. Jayashree 9 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 Ramapriyan are guilty of criminal breach of trust, fraud, forgery

misappropriation and cheating, thereby the respondent No.1 has

been directed to pay sum of Rs.92,47,906.80/-. 6. The petitioner in her petition has further alleged that the

respondent No.1 has been created false KYC records by creating

fictious, fake email I.D. in her name and planting a 3 rd party

mobile number 9844701714 which belongs to the employee of

the respondent No.1 namely Arun Kumar in KYC to divert emails

and created fake email I.D. [email protected] alleged to

be her email I.D. with a criminal intention to cheat her and to

divert all transactions, alerts to the fake email I.D. The

respondent No.1 employee without authorization updated his own

mobile number to her as false KYC to commit the fraud. The

alleged KYC produced by the respondent No.1 proves fabrication

of KYC records, thereby she has approached the Cyber police

station through her daughter and complaint has been registered

of cheating and identity theft against Smt. Jayashree Ramapriyan,

Mr. Arun Kumar Mishra, who is the employee of respondent No.1

and others under Sec.66(c) , 66(d) of Information Technology Act

r/w 419 and 420 of IPC . 7. The respondent No.1 feeling aggrieved by the IGRP order

preferred an appeal in arbitration matter before the National

Stock Exchange Arbitration Tribunal comprising of retired justice

N. Kumar, Mr. M.P. Kunju and Mr. N. Nityananda. The respondent 10 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 No.1 had ample time to file the statement of defence with

documents. During the hearing the respondent No.1 filed 471

pages additional submission and documents to mislead the

tribunal. The arbitration tribunal like the IGRP directed the

respondent No.1 to file necessary documents under law to show

that the transaction duly authorized and if any payment was

made or any authorization letter was available, but the

respondent No.1 failed to do the same. Thereafter, award has

been passed and directed the respondent No.1 to pay the amount

of Rs.92,47,906.80/- within 30 days. 8. The petitioner in her petition has further alleged that the

respondent No.1 preferred another appeal to the NSE Appellate

Tribunal and requesting to set aside the award dated 04.05.2018

and the 1st respondent has chosen 5 arbitrations from the list and

she has chosen arbitrators from the NSE panel of arbitrators and

herself and the respondent No.1 chosen Mr. B.R. Sudhakar as

arbitrator, but the NSEIL failed to appoint him as an arbitrator, in

spite of conscience. The NSEIL in gross disregard to the

agreement on the arbitrators appointed R. Mohan as Presiding

Officer. One V. Shekar and A.V. Muralidharan as the arbitrators.

The arbitrators are required to make a disclose under Sec.12 of

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, but no disclosure was made by

the arbitrators in gross violation of the Act and the arbitrators

have chosen only hearing for adjudication on 27.07.2018, 11 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 thereafter reserved the case for award though her counsel

vehemently objected that the arbitrators not only knew the

respondent No.1, but were also close to its advocate and they

had dealt with several cases of the respondent No.1 in the past.

But during the hearing the respondent No.1 produced huge set of

additional documents, though she has objected for accepting the

additional documents, but the arbitrators reserved the case for

award without any date and without further hearing and passed

the impugned award by setting aside the award dated

04.05.2018 which passed by the Arbitral Tribunal and directing to

move the matter before the court on the ground that a detailed

investigation was needed on the dispute and the ledger books

produced do not match with the transaction establishing that the

ledger books were fudged thereby she has challenged the said

award on the following grounds: 2) What order? 12. My answer to the above points are as under: 13. POINT NO.1: The petitioner has approached the court on

the ground that the award passed by the arbitration tribunal

dated 14.09.2018 is illegal, not taken into consideration of the

award passed by the arbitrators dated 04.05.2018 nor

appreciating the material facts that non-payment was made by

the respondent No.1 to the applicant nor considered criminal

breach of trust which played by the respondent No.1 to the

appellant and failed to record a concrete finding of the claim

which made, but wrongly come to the conclusion that the parties

have not come out with full facts of the case and or holding back

some vital information which only a detailed investigation can

bring out and directed to approach the court of law, thereby the

petitioner has filed the instant petition. 14. The learned counsel for the petitioner in his arguments

has submitted that the petitioner and her husband are jointly held

a demat account with the respondent No.1 and her husband was 15 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 passed away in the month of November 2009 and as on the date

of death, he was holding the shares in the respondent No.1. After

the demise of her husband, the petitioner is inherited the stocks

from her husband and the petitioner has no proper formal

education and she is a senior citizen and after the death of her

husband, she has totally lost track of the said demat account and

one or two occasions called the 1st respondent to confirm about

the existence of demat account and to ascertain whether any

demat charges were payable, but the 1st respondent sent the

holding statement nor collected any demat charges, but in the

year 2013 the respondent No.1 has sent Jayashree Ramapriyan

and she obtained signatures of the petitioner on several partly

filled forms stating that all the bank details etc. of the demat

details have to be obtained as per SEBI/NSE norms to retain the

demat account. The said Jayashree Ramapriyan had obtained the

signature of the petitioner under undue influence and committed

fraud and the petitioner has completely on the faith being

unaware of the regarding the partly filled blank form. The

petitioner's son has been advised to the petitioner to return the

shares that worth of the shares which is less than Rs.75,00,000/-

and when the petitioner has asked the respondent No.1 for return

of the shares, the 1st respondent has sent Jayashree Ramapriyan

and the petitioner has given instructions to transfer the shares in

favour of her daughter, at that time she has obtained the 16 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 signatures in the bank transfer form on good faith and trusting

she has signed on the blank transfer form and she do not know

the consequence of the same and later on the petitioner

discovered that the respondent No.1 and the said Jayashree

Ramapriyan were misappropriated and swindled all stocks of the

petitioner in its place have transferred some other shares in

favour of Lalitha Murthy on 27.07.2017 who is none other than

the daughter of the petitioner and the respondent No.1 has

committed fraud stolen the stocks worth of Rs.75,00,000/- though

the transferred shares were not purchased by the petitioner or

acquired at any point of time and there was no pay in or pay out

as per the NSE/SEBI norms in favour of the petitioner, thereby the

petitioner has filed the complaint to the Securities and Exchange

Board of India, in turn proceedings has been initiated by the IGRP

and directed the respondent No.1 to pay an amount of

Rs.92,47,906.80/- and it has been challenged by the respondent

No.1 and the arbitration proceedings has been initiated and the

arbitrators were upheld IGRP award. So feeling aggrieved by the

said award has filed the appeal before the appellate arbitral

tribunal and the appellate arbitral tribunal set aside the award

passed dated 04.05.2018 on the ground the parties have not

come out with full facts of the case and are holding back some

vital information without considering the materials on record. If at

all the respondent No.1 had paid any amount in respect of the 17 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 shares not only belongs to the petitioner and also her husband

the respondent No.1 would have placed the materials. That is the

reason why the appellate arbitral tribunal come to the conclusion

that the respondent No.1 has not placed materials. When the

tribunal come to that conclusion the order for set asiding the

arbitral award dated 04.05.2018 is illegal and prays for allow the

petition and set aside the appellate arbitral tribunal award dated

14.09.2018 and uphold award dated 04.05.2018. 15. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent No.1

in his arguments has submitted that though IGRP passed the

orders in favour of the petitioner and it was upheld by the arbitral

award dated 04.05.2018, but the appellate arbitral tribunal after

considering the materials on record has rightly held that the

respondent No.1 has not committed any irregularity and did

transaction as per authorization and KYC slip which placed before

the court and the xerox visa which produced clearly reflects that

the petitioner has made unnecessary allegation against the

respondent No.1 as the document No.69 is very much clear

though the petitioner was in Bangalore unnecessarily made

allegations she was in the abroad not in Bangalore and the

document No.60 will not help the petitioner to prove her case and

no charge sheet has been filed till this day against the respondent

No.1. The petitioner has not made out any grounds under Sec.34 18 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act to set aside the award and

prays for dismiss the petition. 16. It is an admitted fact that the petitioner has filed the

instant petition against the award passed by the appellate arbitral

tribunal dated 14.09.2018 and sought for uphold the award dated

04.05.2018 passed by the arbitral tribunal. So before considering

the materials on record as well as the arguments which advanced

by both the counsels, let me know first the legal aspects for the

proper appreciation of the materials on record as well as the

award which passed by the arbitrator. So this court has to decide

the following facts first for the appreciation of materials on

record: Let me decide one by one for proper appreciation of the materials

on record. Thus this court drawn its attention on Sec.2(1)(a) of

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 which reads like this: So by virtue of the provision which stated above, the court can

interfere with the arbitral award in the grounds which mentioned

above. Now let me know what is the scope of Court's power to

interfere with the arbitral award? Thus this court drawn its

attention on Sec.34(34) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act

which reads like this; Scope of Court's power to interfere with the
 arbitral award: An award can be set aside, if it is against the
 public policy of India that is to so it is contrary
 to: So if the petitioner is made out the grounds which stated

supra, court can set aside the award. Now let me know about the

setting aside of arbitral award when permissible. Thus this court

drawn its attention on Sec.34(4) of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 4. Setting aside of arbitral award when
 permissible:- However exception for setting aside the award
on the ground of composition of arbitral
tribunal or illegality of arbitral procedure is
that the agreement should not be in conflict
within the provisions of part-1 of the Act from
which the parties cannot derogate. (c) If the award passed by the arbitral tribunal
is in contravention of provisions of the Act or
any other substantive law governing the
parties or is against the terms of the contract.

(3) The award could be set aside if it is against
the public policy of India, that is to say, if it is
contrary to: The above provisions which referred above are very much clear

when court can interfere with the arbitral award and what is the

scope of court's power to interfere with the arbitral award and

what are the grounds are required to be set aside the award as

well as setting aside of arbitral award when permissible. 17. Apart from the above provisions of Arbitration and

Conciliation Act which referred above , it is also necessary to

consider the provisions of Indian Contract Act as the petitioner

not only in the legal notice, but also in the petition has alleged

that the respondent No.1 and one Jayashree Ramapriyan were

obtained the signatures of the petitioner on the partly filled blank

form by means of undue influence, playing fraud and by

misrepresentation. Thus this court drawn its attention on Sec.16 of the Indian Contract Act, which reads like this: 'Undue influence' defined.--(1) A contract is said to be
 induced by 'undue influence' where the relations
 subsisting between the parties are such that one of the
 parties is in a position to dominate the will of the other
 and uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage
 over the other." (2) In particular and without prejudice to the
 generality of the foregoing principle, a person is
 deemed to be in a position to dominate the will of 26 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 another-- (a) where he holds a real or apparent authority over
 the other, or where he stands in a fiduciary relation to
 the other; or (b) where he makes a contract with a person whose
 mental capacity is temporarily or permanently affected
 by reason of age, illness, or mental or bodily distress.
 (3) Where a person who is in a position to dominate the
 will of another, enters into a contract with him, and the
 transaction appears, on the face of it or on the evidence
 adduced, to be unconscionable, the burden of proving
 that such contract was not induced by undue influence
 shall be upon the person in a position to dominate the
 will of the other. The above provision is very much clear a contract is said to be

induced by undue influence where the relations subsisting

between the parties are such that one of the parties is in position

to dominate the will of the other and uses that position to obtain

an unfair advantage over the other. Thus this court drawn its

attention on Sec.17 of the Indian Contract Act, which reads like

this: The above provision is very much clear fraud means any of the

party by his connivance, or by his agent to deceive another party

thereto of his agent, or to induce him to enter into the contract.

Thus this court drawn the court attention on Sec.18 of the Indian

Contract Act which reads like this: 18. "Misrepresentation" defined. --"Misrepresentation" means and
 includes-- --"Misrepresentation" means
 and includes--" The above provision is very much clear the misrepresentation is

to positive assertion in a manner nor warranted by the

information of the person making it, of that which is not true. So

keeping the legal aspects in mind which referred above , now let

me know the admitted facts which admitted by the parties for the

proper appreciation, that the petitioner got issued legal notice not 28 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 only to the respondent No.1 but also one Jayashree Ramapriyan

on 12.09.2016, 05.09.2016 and also got issued legal notice on

23.11.2016 to the respondent No.1, and the respondent No.1 has

replied the first legal notice which issued by the petitioner on

12.09.2016 stating that with reference to point No.1, the holding

of shares as on November 2009 is partly agreed. So if the

admission of the respondent No.1 in its reply dated 13.10.2016 is

taken into consideration, the respondent No.1 has not disputed

the shares of the petitioner which mentioned in the legal notice

dated 12.09.2016 for the proper appreciation, it is just and

necessary for reproduce not only the point No.1 which stated in

the legal notice dated 12.09.2016, but also reply of the

respondent No.1 dated 13.10.2016 which reads like this: should be paid to the petitioner within 7 days after the receipt of

the order. So the IGRP after considering the materials which

placed by both the parties held that the respondent No.1

unauthorizedly sold the shares of the petitioner, thereby has been

directed to pay the amount which stated above. 20. The FIR which placed on record is also reflects the case

has been registered not only against the respondent No.1, but

also against one Jayashree Ramapriyan under Sec.66(c) , 66(d) of

I.T. Act r/w Sec.419 and 420 of IPC on the ground that the

respondent No.1 after the death of complainant's father the

respondent No.1 and one Jayashree Ramapriyan were approached

the petitioner to forego the joint demat account and open a

individual demat account and to transfer the stock balance and

because of the petitioner not having much knowledge took the

advantage and asked to furnish the KYC details and obtained the

signatures by means of undue influence and fraud in criminal

conspiracy. So at this stage, the FIR reflects the case has been

registered against the respondent No.1 about unauthorizedly

used the shares of the petitioner and got obtained the signatures

of the petitioner by playing fraud and undue influence as per the

provisions of the Indian Contract Act which referred above .

Though the respondent No.1 has challenged the IGRP award

before the arbitrators which was came to be dismissed and

upheld the order which passed by the IGRP and in the said award

the arbitrators were held that the respondent No.1 has

unauthorizedly sold the shares and transferred the shares which

are not relating to the petitioner and not paid a pie of

consideration received by the respondent No.1 for sale of those

shares and in spite of the direction to furnish the requisite 32 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 particulars but did not do so, thereby the arbitrators upheld the

award of IGRP. 21. So feeling aggrieved by the said award challenged before

the appellate arbitral tribunal which constitute by the National

Stock Exchange of India, who are the appellate penal of the

arbitrators in the appeal and they held that during the period of

August 2009 to September 2017 though many traders were

carried out in the petitioner account there were no pay in and no

pay out in the entire 7 years period, except an settlement of

Rs.60,000/- in July 2012 on account of sale of 100 shares of HDFC

bank. When the respondent No.1 has been questioned reason for

solitary settlement could not given in reply thereby they were

held that the parties have not come out with full facts of the case

and are holding back some vital information, however they have

set aside the award dated 04.05.2018. So one thing is clear that

the appellate arbitral tribunal held that the respondent No.1 has

unauthorizedly sold the shares which belongs to the petitioner

and did not pay anything to the petitioner regarding the shares

which sold but the reasons best known to the respondent No.1

has not challenged the finding which recorded by the appellate

arbitral tribunal in the award dated 14.09.2018 which is remained

unchallenged and moreover, the very appellate arbitral tribunal

held that the parties have not come out with full facts of the case

and are holding back some vital information, but whereas the

arbitral award dated 04.05.2018 which passed by the arbitrators

are taken into consideration not only materials which placed by 34 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 the parties, but also the facts of both parties and after

considering the entire materials found that the respondent No.1

sold the share which belongs to the petitioner unauthorizedly by

obtaining the signatures of the petitioner by playing fraud undue

influence and misappropriation. So, if the award passed dated

04.05.2018 is taken into consideration, it is clear that the

arbitrators after considering not only the materials on record, but

also the facts which pleaded by both the parties have held that

the respondent No.1 is liable to pay an amount of

Rs.92,47,906.80/- since he has not placed any materials on

record that the petitioner has received the entire share amount

and the respondent No.1 has not placed any materials to

substantiate the same. 22. So one thing is clear from the materials on record as well

as the admission of the respondent No.1 in the reply notice that

the petitioner and her husband were holding the shares as

mentioned in the petition and the respondent No.1 without

holding any authority has sold those shares and not paid the

share amount to the petitioner. So the finding which given by the

appellate arbitral tribunal comes within the purview of Sec.34 of

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, since the appellate arbitral

tribunal in one breath held that the parties have not come out

with full facts of the case and also holding back some vital

information, but in another breath has set aside the award which

passed by the arbitrators dated 04.05.2018, when the appellate

arbitral tribunal set aside the award of arbitrators shall record the

reasons which are the vital information are required and which

are the facts was not disclosed by the parties, which are not

taken into consideration by the arbitration tribunal, but without

recording any reasons simply set aside the arbitration tribunal

award which is not in accordance with law. Therefore, the award

which passed by the appellate arbitral tribunal is deserved for set

aside, since the appellate arbitral tribunal has not taken into

consideration about the finding of the arbitrators in accordance

with law. Without considering not only the materials but also the

pleadings of the parties passed the award which comes under Sec.34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. So the petitioner 36 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 has made out the grounds that the order which passed by the

appellate arbitral tribunal comes under Sec.34 of the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act which is liable for set aside. 37 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 23. The learned counsel for the respondent while canvassing

his arguments has submitted that this court has to consider the

concurrent findings of courts below and this court having only

limited power to interfere with the award passed by the appellate

arbitral tribunal and drawn the court attention on the judgment of

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India reported in (2019) 4 SCC 163 in

between MMTC Ltd Vs Vedant Ltd. On careful perusal of the said

judgment, in the said judgment their Lordship held that in

exercise of the jurisdiction under Sec.34 of Arbitration and

Conciliation Act does not sit in appeal over the arbitral award and

may interfere on merits only on the well settled limited grounds,

interference under Sec.37 cannot travel behind the restrictions

laid down under Sec.34 and in case arbitral award has been

confirmed by the court under Sec.34 and by the court in the

appeal under Sec.37 must be extremely cautious and slow to

disturb such concurrent findings and in the said judgment the

majority of the arbitral tribunal found in favour of the respondent

and vide its award dated 27.06.2001 inter alia directed the

appellant to pay to the respondent a sum of Rs.15,76,77,296/-

with interest at 14% p.a. though the appellant has challenged the

same before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India which was came

to be dismissed and in the instant case, it is not the case of the

respondent No.1 that the majority of the award in favour of the

respondent No.1, admittedly IGRP proceedings is against the 38 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 respondent No.1, though he has challenged the said order before

the arbitrators which was confirmed by the arbitrators, and he

has challenged the same before the appellate arbitral tribunal,

but the appellate arbitral tribunal has not passed any award in

favour of the respondent No.1 instead set aside the award and

held that the parties are free to move the matter before the

court. So I do respect to the decision which relied, but the facts

and circumstances of the case on hand and the decision which

relied are different. 24. The learned counsel for the petitioner has rightly

submitted that the appellate arbitral tribunal has not taken into

consideration about finding given by the arbitrators and the

documents which taken into consideration by the arbitrators

while passing the award. Without considering the legal aspects

passed the award by the appellate arbitral tribunal which is not in

accordance with law which is against to the public policy as it is in

conflict with the public policy of India and drawn the court

attention on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

which reported in AIR 2015 SC 363 in between Oil and Natural Gas

Corporation Ltd. Vs Western Zico International Ltd. On careful

perusal of the said judgment , in the said judgment their Lordship

held that the expression fundamental policy of Indian Law must

include all such fundamental principles as providing a basis for

administration of justice and enforcement of law in the country

without meaning to exhaustively enumerate the purport of the

expression fundamental policy of Indian Law and 3 distinct and

fundamental justice principles referred that must be understood

as part and parcel of fundamental policy of Indian law. The 1 st and

foremost is the weather it effects the rights of the citizen or leads

to any civil consequences bound to adopt what is in legal

parallence called a judicial approach in the matter and to

consider about effecting of the rights of the parties or obligation

of the parties and judicial approach is to check against the laws 40 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 and faults that be rendered the decision of the court. So in the

instant case, the appellate arbitral tribunal has not taken into

consideration about the right of the parties and their obligation

which amount to not only violation of natural justice, but also

against fundamental policy of Indian Law. Therefore, the decision

which relied is directly applicable to the case on hand. The

learned counsel for the petitioner has drawn the court attention

on the following judgments: On careful perusal of the said decisions which relied by the

learned counsel for the petitioner are applicable to the case on

hand. The petitioner has made out the grounds which are fallen

under Sec.34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act and the

award which passed by the appellate arbitral tribunal is deserved

for set aside by upholding the award which passed by the 41 Com.A.S.No.263/2018 arbitrators dated 04.05.2018. Hence, I am of the opinion that the

point No.1 is answered as Affirmative. 25. POINT NO.2: In view of my answer to point No.1 as
stated above, I proceed to pass the following; ORDER
 The petition under Sec.34 of Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act filed by the petitioner is hereby
 allowed and set aside the award dated 14.09.2018
 passed by the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal in Appeal
 (A.M. No.CM/B-0001/2018) and upheld the award
 dated 04.05.2018 passed by the arbitrators in AM
 No.CM-B0001/2018. No order as to costs. (P.J. Somashekara)
 LXXXVIII Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 (Exclusive Commercial Court),
 Bengaluru City