(2) A gift is said to be made in contemplation of death where a man.
who is ill and expects to die shortly of his illness, delivers to another the
possession of any moveable property to keep as a gift in case the donor
shall die of that illness. '

W7

(3) Such a gift may be resumed by the gixci". and shall not take effect
it he recovers from the illness during which it was made; nor if he survives
the person to whom it was made. ILLUSTRATIONS (i) A. being ill. and in expectation of death. delivers to B. to be retained
by him in case of A's death-- The illustrations may be thus explained. Illustration (i) takes cases where there has been actual delivery in con-
templation of death. Illustration (ii) takes cases of constructive delivery. Illustration (iii) is a case of no delivery. 32.3. Story in his Equity Jurisprudence points out that a gift of the nature Nature and 0,535,,
provided in section 191 is a sort of amphibious gift between a gift during the
life time and a legacy'. The origins of the concept of donatio m0rti.r causa are to be found in the
Roman Law. The concept was found to be useful, and was adopted in English
law. Following observations of Lord Cooper" show the original rationale for
the rule. Thus, delivery takes the place of a formal will. Incidentally, at present, it
is not necessary that the donor must be in extremis at the time when the gift
mortis causa is made'. 'Story. Equity Jurisprudence (I919). page 256, Para 606. - 'Lord Cooper in Hedges v. Hedges, (1908) Precedents In Chancery 269'. J. Gareth Miller
Vlachineryofsuccession (1977), page 275. templated hy the donor). the subject--matter of the gift must he delivered to the donee. Delivery
may be before or after the words of gift'. and may even be to an
agent'. Delivery of a key to a box or drawer is enough. if the property
is identiﬁed"; 32.5. Certain controversies have. arisen in Englattd as to how far the
delivery of a document is enough to constitute a gift of the thing to which the
document r_e_lates, particularly shares. However. these are not material for the
present purpose. The essence of the requirement is transfer of possession
(delivery by the donor to 1/10 dance by wqv of a t'Ui1diti0.ttal gift). 32.6. It may he noted that section l9l does not, at present. apply to
Hindus etc'. The matter. would as regards Hindus. he governed by uncodified
law. The position is, in this regand, at present, obscure. T he case law' on the
subject is scanty and does not throw much light. We propose to consider the
question of extending the section to Hindus and. in that context. to deal with
Hindu Law on the subject. 32.7. Traditional Hindu law9. "' deals with the situation as one of gift.
and accordingly requires "giving.-" (with the requisite intention) and acceptance. A rlwiutiu mt)rti.i' ('tl1l,\'tl of movable property is recognised in Hindu' law.
West and Buhler" state that "a t'ather's promises are looked on -as binding, unless
the performance of them would prevent the fulﬁlment of some still more sacred
duty. But that the courts will not enforce. such obligation except subject to the
conditions of the statute law where that is in force." In at Bombay case'-', A promised' lands to his daughter. but never executed
a deed of transfer. On his death-bed, he asked his son to give the lands to
the daughter and the son agreed. After his death, A's will was found to contain
a bequest of all'his property to the son and C. It was held that the daughter
could compel the son to transfer the lands to her, notwithstanding the will.
since A constituted himself a trustee for the daughter in respect of them and
had constituted his son his trustee to transfer the lands to D. ('. had no interest

inthe lands under the will. 32.8. We may here also notice a Calcutta case". A Hindu. while on his
death-bed. caused certain government papers for the sum of Rs. 30.500 to be

'Re Dudnuut, (1925) Ch. 553. 'Re wilkex V. Halington, (1834) Ch. 104. '('ui/2 v. Morin, (1896) (2.8. 283. 'Moore \. Darton. (l851)«4 De and G. 51. He also observed that the donor. if he had lived, or his representatives after his
death, could not. at la\v. have compelled the clones to have returned the govern-
ment papers. 32:9. On a consideration of the position, it appears to us_that there are Rwnmmmdauon
two weighty reasons, one theoretical. the other practical_ why section 19 ] should to extend section
be extended to Hindus etc.-- - I91 to Hindu cic- tll on principle. there seems to he no reason why the section should not
apply to them: - We. therefore, recommend that section 191 should be extended to Hindus l
etc. This will. of course. require amendment of the Third Schedule'., '

CHAPTER 33
PROTECTION OF PROPERTY OF DECEASED (SECTIONS l92 T0 210)

33.1. Protection of the property of the 'deceased forms the subject matter
of sections 192 to 210. which create a machinery for such protection. Under
section 192. proceedings for the purpose can be initiated by a person claiming
a rightful succession. either after actual possession has been taken by another
person or when forcible means of seizing possession are apprehended, An
application for the purpose has to be made to the District Judge who, after
inquiry under sections 193-194. has power, under section 194, to determine
summarily the right to possession and shall deliver possession accordingly. The
order of the District Judge is subject to the right of rhc aggrieved party to
bring a suit under section 208. Pending determination of the summary proceedings.
the District Judge has power to appoint a curator of the property. The rest
of the chapter deals mainly with matter connected with the Curator. Scope. 33.2. The basic section in the entire scheme is section 192. which reads----- _
Section 192- person claiming a right by succession thereto, or to any portion thereof, to prépeny of dg.
may make application to the District Judge of the district where any part of ceased may apply
the property is found or situate for relief, either after actual possession has f°' '°l'ff ""'."'5'
been taken by another person. or when forcible means of seizing possession wmngfu p°Ss°Ss'°"'

are apprehended. (2) Any agent. relative or near friend, or the Court ot' Wards in cases
within their cognizance. may in the event of any minor, or any disqualiﬁed
or absent person being entitled by succession to such property as aforesaid.
make the like application for relief." 'To be carried out under the Schedule. Rccomrncndatiori 33.3. The term 'succession' in section 192 is not conﬁned to intestate
'$2 3"'°'"' '''°''''" succession, but applies also to testamentary sticcessionl'. The provisions of section
' 192 are not, however, applicable to a case where the property passes by survivor- ship--as in the case of a joint Hindu family". It would be useful to codify judicial interpretation of the word 'succession'
in section 192. by adding the words "testamentary or inte.s'mr<"' after the word
"succession". wherever it occurs in the section. We recommend accordingly. Scc[i0n193,]nqu|'ry 33.4. Section 193 reads---- made byiudgo . . . . . . . Segﬁon |'i94_ 33.5. Section 194 reads-- The section needs no change. Sccmm 195' 33.6. Section 195 reads~-- The section needs no change. i . i section ' 196 33.7. Section 196 r€ads--~
: §§:;::f:r"f"ab'° "I96. The District Judge may authorise the curator to take possession of - -' ' the property either generally, or until security is given by the party in
possession, or until inventories of the property have been made, or for any
other purpose necessary for securing the property from misappropriation
or waste by the party in possession : . 'Binode Bhari V. RaiS1mdari. A.l.R. l926 Cal. 779.
'--'('hampi Devi v_. Purqn Bal A.l.R. l934 Lahore 930.
¢Bua Ditta v Sahib Dival, A.I.R 1938 Lahore 753. l8l

Provided that it shall be in the discretion of the .ludgc to allow the party
in possession to continue in such possession on giving security or not: and
any continuance in possession shall be subject to such orders as the Judge
may issue touching inventories. or the \:curing of deeds. or other effects." The section needs no change

I97 reads- ponsible for the payment thereof to the person who has obtained the certi-
ﬁcate, probate or letters of administration. as the case may be," and invested in public securities for the beneﬁt of the persons entitled thereto
upon adjudication of the summary proceeding. (3) Security shall be required from the curator with all reasonable despatch.
and, where it is practicable, shall be taken generally to answer all cases for
which the person may be afterwards appointed curator; but no delay in the
taking of security shall prevent the Judge from immediately investing the
curator with the powers of his ofﬁce." The section needs no change. 33.10. Section I99 reads as under :---- ''l9'). (1) Where the estate of the deceased person consists wholly or in
part of land paying revenue to government, in all matters regarding the
property of summoning the party in possession. of appointing a curator. or
of nominating individuals to that appointment, the District Judge shall
demand a report from the Collector. and the Collector shall thereupon
furnish the same 2

Provided that in cases of urgency the judge may proceed. in the ﬁrst instance,
without such report. (2) The Judge shall not be obliged to act in conformity with any such
report, but, in case of his acting otherwise than according to such report.
he shall immediately forward a statement of his reasons to the High Court,
and the High Court, if it is dissatisﬁed with such reasons, shall direct the
Judge to proceed conformably to the report of the Collector. The Section needs no change. 33.1 I. This takes us to section 200, which in the main paragraph provides
that the curator shall be subject to all orders of the District Judge rgarding the
institution or the defence of suits. and all suits may be instituted or defended
in the name of the curator on behalf of the estate. '

Under the proviso. an express authority shall be requisite in the order
of the curator's appointment for the collection of debts or rents: but such

Section 197. Pro- hibition of exercise
of certain powers by
curators. Payment of debts
etc. to Curator. Curator to give sece- unty and may receive
remuneration. Section I99. Rcpor
from Collector
where stateinclude
revenue paying law. Section 200. Suits
bycurators. express authority shall enable the curator to give ll lull acquittunce for any
sums of money received by virtue thereof. Rccommcndationto 33.12. The section is deiivcd from an Act of 1841*. The principle underlying
clarify 1116 pqsition the section is simple. A curator is an officer of the court, and suits instituted
:l5m::'ma""'°"'-V °f by him are subject to control of the court. The question, however, is whether.
' before a suit is instituted by the curator, he must obtain the leave of the court.
The section provides that a suit should be instituted or defended in the name of
the t'l(Iul()r. But, according to judicial interpretation, it is not necessary' that
the curator must be speciﬁcally authorised by the District Judge to institute or
defend the suit. The position. in this regard, should be codiﬁed by adopting the
judicial interpretation. The proviso to section 200 requires that if a curator is appointed to collect
debts or rents of property. the order appointing him as curator must confer express
authority to give discharge for the moneys received. The proviso does not relate
to the institution or defence of suits. but to the collection of debts and rents. Recommendation 33.13. Another inat_ter_on _which the law could be suitably codiﬁed relates

to clarify me push to the need for _a succession certiﬁcate when the curator takes proceedings. it has

tion as to succes- been held3 that it 15 not necessary for the curator to obtain a succession certiﬁcate

9i0n certiﬁcate before instituting a suit to recover the debt. This pOSitiOn also should be made
clear by an amendment of section 200. An Explanation could be added for the
purpose. _ 33.14. in the light of what we have stated above we recommend that
,S,,u§,g.ff:i-°5d¢:,r;'2,',',":a_i(')((1)_ the following Explanations should be added below section,200 :- gcmon 20._ 33.15. Section 201 provides as follows: The section needs no change. . ,02 3.16. Section 202 provides that the curator shall ﬁle monthly accounts in
S°°"°" ' the abstract, and shall, on the expiry of each period of three months, if his

administration lasts so long. and, upon giving up the possession of the property; . tile a detailed account of his administration to the satisfaction of the District
Judge. The section needs no change. 9 . ,0, 33.17. Section 203 provides that the accounts of the curator shall be open
'ecmm ' " to the inspection of all parties interested; and it shall be competent for any such
interested party to appoint a separate person _to keep a duplicate account of all
receipts and payments by the curator. If it is found that the accounts of the

curator are in arrear. or that they are erroneous or incomplete. or if the curator_

does not produce them whenever he is ordered to do so by the District Judge,
he shall be punishable with ﬁne not exceeding one thousand rupees for every

such default. Thcsection needs no change. ' Section 9 . Succession (Property Protection) Act . 1841 (19 of 1841). 33.18. Section 204 provides 1-- The section needs no change. 33.19. Section 205 provides that an application under this Part to the Section 205.

District Judge must be made within six months of the death of thc proprietor
whose property is claimed by right in succession. _

The section needs no change. 33 .20. Section 2 "206. Nothing in this Part shall be deemed to authorise the contravention of

any public act 0

Bar to enforcement- of Part against pub- lic settlement or

t' settlement or of any legal directions given by a deceased legal diraions by

()6 provides 2

proprietor of any property for the possession of his property after his d°°°3'°d- deceasc in the e

vent of minority or otherwise, and, in every such case, as

soon as the Judge having jurisdiction over the property of a deceased person
is sa.tisﬁed of the existence of such directions. he shall give effect thereto." The section needs no change. 33.21. Section 2 07 provides :---- Section

"207. Nothing in this Part shall be deemed to authorise any disturbance
of the possession of a Court of Wards of any property; and in case a
minor or other disqualiﬁed person, whose property is subject to the Court
of Wards, is the party on whose behalf application is made under this
Part, the District Judge, it' he determines to summon the party in possession
and to appoint a curator, shall invest the Court of Wards with the curator-
ship of the estate pending the proceeding without taking security as aforesaid : Section 208. The section nee

tls no change. I 184 33.24. Section 210 provides that the State Governnietit may appoint public
curators for any district or number of districts; and the District Judge having
jurisdiction shall nominate such public curators in all cases where the choice of a
curator is left discretionary with him under this Part. Section 210. Public Curators. -- The section needs no change,

CHAPTER 34

REPRESENTATIVE TITLE TO THE PROPERTY OF THE DECEASED
ON SUCCESSION. SECTIONS 211 T0 216 1. Introductory

34.1. Representatix-we title to the property of the deceased on succession
is an important topic of the law of succession, dealt with in sections 211 to 216.

The Cliapter begins with a positive provision in section Zll. which enacts
that the executor or administrator of a deceased person is his legal representative
for all purposes. and all property of the deceased vests in him as such. In case
of an admiiiistrator_ the very deﬁnition of that expression' requires that he must
be appointed by a competent authority. As regards an executor, section 213i 1 )
provides, inter utlia, that (in cases where that section applies) no right as
3 executor can be established in a court without obtaining probate or letters of

administration with the will annexed. Thus, in soine form or other. the court
enters into the picture in most cases. 3-1.2. The position in India under the Act otlers a contrast to the continental
system. In most countries of Europe. where in modern times. the inﬂuence of
Roman law has been predominant. property passes on immediately to the bene-
ﬁciaries. who by their acceptance of the beneﬁt become directly liable for the
payment .of the deceaseds debts, In England, however, this is not the case'. Origin of cxecum, 34.3. The conception of_ the personal i'cpi'ese11tative is founded up.on the
and administrator, position of the executor appointed by the testator's will to execute its terms, an
institution prevalent throughout Europe in the Middle Ages and perhaps traceable
to the ancient German Salman to whom property was transferred in order that
he might carry out the wishes of the transferer. Where no executor was appointed.
the medieval Church claimed the right to administer_ though in practice the
Bishop appointed some member of the deceased's family t by granting to him
letters of administration) to act as administrator in his place. This practice was
(in England) made conipulsory by statute as early as 1357, and thereafter the
position and functions of the administrator have been practically assimilated

to those of the executor.'
Scheme of mmm 34.4, The scheme of these sections. is that where those sections apply,
' ' it becomes necessary to obtain the appropriate document conferring or recognising

Scope of the Chap- ter. Eitecutors and ad«
ministrators. 212-214. _ _ _ _
the t'eprescnt1ltl\'C llliC_ before a right can be established to the property of
the deceased. ll. Survivorship and the question of shares
Section 211(1) 34.5, We may now take up the sections for detailed consideration, Section

211(1), provides that the executor or administrator of a deceased is his legal

1Section 20:)': ''Administrator''. can be obtained in respect of property passing by .\'m'viv0rs/'1i,r2 to copareeners D¢°l°f5h3Y°5-

in a Hindu undivided family. Much of the case law on the subject relates to

shares in companies'. ln general. property passing by survivorship is distinguished

from property passing by succession. The distinction. in fact. is elementary and

sound. But this theoretical distinction creates certain practical dilticulties, because

of the fact that under the statutory provisions applicable" to shares in companies. shares are registered only in the name of a particular person. and only the

person registered is recognised as the "legal owner" of those shares so far

as the company is concerned. This does not. of C0u1'Sc. mean that the rights of

the other persons against, the 'legal' owner are alfected as between the 'legal'

owner and those other persons, But. as between the C0lI]ptlIl\' and the share».- holders, this is the position. 1

34.7. Now. these statutory provisions create sortie problems in regard to Shares standing in
shares belonging to the coparceners of a Hindu undivided family and standing the name 07 the
in the name of one cloparcener--the manager. When the registered "legal" manage" taken, then there remains no machinery for establishing, to the satisfaction
of the company, the title of the persons succeeding by survivorship. By and
large, courts have, taking a realistic view. construed sections 211 to 213
widely for the purpose. There is, no doubt. some conflict of views on the
question as to the basis on which court fees are to be calculated" in respect of
petitions for latters of administration ﬁled by the surviving coparceners. That
c0nﬁict_ however as it pertains to the Court Fees Act . is not material for our
purpose. 34.9 Our primary concern is with the question whether letters of adminis- Leuersor .,dm,'m5.
tration can be granted in respect of shares in joint stock companies where the tration regarding
shares stand in the name of the karta of a Mitakshara Joint Hindu family. On Shares-
that question. most High Courts take the view* that in the case of such shares
the Companies Act . (and usually, the Articles of Association of the Company).
make it abundantly clear that vis-a-vis the company. the local title in the
shares is in the registered holder of the shares_ viz. the karta of the joint family
in whose name the shares stand. He is the only person recognised by the company
as having the shares. The position. therefore. is that on the death of the karta
who was the registered holder of the shares. the title to the shares vis--a--vis
the company, does not, on death of the karta. without the grant of letters of
administration, pass by .s'ur\'/'varsliip to the surviving members ol the coparcenary
of which the deceased was the karta. So far as the company 13 mm'erned, the
excepﬁgng in cugcg of Hindu dying intestate. provided in Section 2 | 1(2) and
212(2) of the Indian Succession Act . l925. do not. therefore. apply in such
cases. At the same time, neither the principles of Hindu law nor the provisions
contained in the Succession Act . stand in the uay of the grant of the Letters of
Administration limited to the shares held by the karta of a joint l\4ital<shara
Hindu family. in the event of his dying intestate. 'Paras 34.8 and 34. 9. infra. 'Thc Companies Act. 1956. 'Section l9D. ('ourt Fees Act . 'The case law is reviewed in. (:1) Sri Ram \'. collector, La/tore, A.LR. l942 Lahore 173: l

~ Section

1 oh

34.1().The conclusion on the question, as expressed in a Calcutta case',
represents. in broad terms, the view of the most High Courts, namely. that
where shares in a joint stock company belonging to an undivided family governed
by the Mitaksliara school of Hindu law stand in the name of the knrta of the
family, letters of administration limited to the shares can be gmtltctl to legal
representatives in the event of thc karta dying intestate. and. in particular. to
the next karta oi' the l'-.imil_\'. View of most High
Courts. 1'§€=gAiig:*:d;nc:E;; V 34.11. lt is desirable that this iiiterpretatioii, which takes a practical view
§ﬁ"1,ega1,di["'gSham of the matter. should be incorporated in the section by adding ll speciﬁc 
planation'. Zita 34.12. in connection with section 2ll. the next iniportuiit point is con-
Disposal by Vii}: ofcerned with the Explanation to section 30 of the Hindu Succession Act 1956.
§,';'L']'§';5;sS';;"°Su"__T:o state the gist of that lixplanation broadly, it confers. for the first time", '.1
;\,o,5h;p_ right to dispose of (by will) property in the nature of the interest of a male

Hindu in a Mitaksliarti ('oparccnary property or the iiitcrcst of the speciﬁed
persons in the speciﬁed property. 34.13. Section (i of the same Act also provides that such interest shall.
in certain cases, pass by succession, and not by survivorship'. The scope of
sub-section (2) of section 211 of the Succession Act has thus become limited.
Customary law prohibiting the disposition by will of certain property, of course.
still continues in force. section 30 of the Hindu Succession Act having no
application in such a case. The Punjab case of lat Hindu belonging to an
agricultural tribe and governed by Punjab Customary Law may be cited" in this
context. as an illustration of tbepjudicial view as to customaiy law, This position
does noi_ of course. necessitate any amendment in the section in the Succession

Act,

34.14. It was decided in a Madras case" that the expression "legal representa-
tives" and "successors" may not be applicable to persons taking by survivorship.
but it does not necessarily follow that such persons are not entitled to obtain
:2 succession certiﬁcate by calling themselves" legal representatives.*--°

Section. 6, Hindu
Succession Act . Survivorship. We are of the view that not only is there need for a speciﬁc provision" This amendment will cover letters of administration. The iiinendinent as
to Succession Certiﬁcate will be dealt with later". 'In: /wguadr ofseu» pmi-arl Suraf, A.|.R. I954 Cal. 444. 445. 446. para 24 {G.N. Das and S.R.
Das and SR. Das Gupta J1). 'Sec para 34. 75. in/ru. 34.18. Whatever be the correct construction of the present wording of Recommendation
section 213, it seems to us that on practical considerations it is desirable to to amend Section
adopt the former view', which would bar only the passing of a decree. It reﬂects 2"- a less technical approach than the cont-rary view. We therefore recommend that
section 213 should be amended by providing that where probate has not been
obtained, what is barred is only the passing of a decree'. and not the institution

of a suit. 34.18A, It has been represented to us, in one of the comments received section 213- ex-
on the Working Paper", that while Hindus and Muslims can get relief from the cluster; of Indian
court on the basis of a will, Christians have to get a probate or letters of adminisé Chglsllans '°°°mm' -tration for getting relief on the basis of a will. It has been suggested in that °" a"°"s'
communication that Christians should be excluded from section 213. This is a
suggestion forwarded to us along with the letter of the Catholic Bishop's Con-
ference of India. We accept the suggestion, though the point was not contained
1 in our Working Papers. We recommend that (a) section 213 should be amended
as above; and (b) consequential changes be made, wherever necessary, in other
sections of the Act. IV. Debts---need for succession certiﬁcate

34.19. This takes us to section 214, with reference [0 which a number section 2 ]4_ph1-age
of points require consideration. The ﬁrst question is concerned with the signi- 'onsucoession'.
ﬁcance of the phrase 'on succession'. Sub-section (1), clause (a) of the section prohibits the courts from passing
a decree against a debtor of a deceased person for payment of his debt to a
person claiming, 'on succession', to be entitled to the effects of the deceased
person or to any part thereof, except on the production, by the person so claiming,
of the requisite document covering the speciﬁed amount. The phrase did not
occur in the earlier Act of 1865, but was added by the Joint Committee that
considered the Bill which led to the present Act. The signiﬁcance of these words will be soon realised when we consider
the cases where a claim is made against the 'debtor of a deceased person' on the

'(a) In re Ramchand A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 274, 276. \b) Bhude v. Chandra X. Bhlshakar, A.I.R. 1942 Pat. 120. '-'( a) Venkata Subrmnaniam v. Andhra Bank, A.I.R. 1960 A.P. 273. 280. ( b) Biblizm' Bhusan V. Narendra, A.I.R. 195], Cal. 228. -"Meyappav. Subramanian, A.l.R. l9l6P.C.202. 204.
'Para 34. 17, Supra. -"Compare section 2l4(1)(a). since the bank would be protected and would get a full discharge on making
payment to the nominee. But, in cases where no such nomination has been made,
the diflicultics felt by virtue of«the practice of banks to which reference has been
already made" will survive. An amendment of the Succession Act would, there-
fore, possess considerable utility. even after the amendment of the banking
laws. Incidentally, it may be mentioned that a nomination does not affect the Em," of nomim.
rights of the other heirs, and, as between the nominee and the rival heirs, the tion.
nominee does not get any higher or preferential status. The new sections inserted
in banking laws provide so expressly. 34.25B. We may also note that in a Kerala case reported recently", the Section 214 and

widow of a person who had been killed in an accident caused by the driver of small claims,'
a truck, claimed compensation against the Kerala State Road Transport Corpo- ration, which owned the truck. Presumably the claim was under the Fatal

Accidents Act read with the Motor Vehicles Act . Resisting the claim, the State

Road Transport Corporation insisted that the widow should produce a succession

certiﬁcate before payment could be made to her. The widow thereupon moved

the High Court of Kerala by a letter, which was treated as a petition. The High

Court pointed out that no succession certiﬁcate was required in this case, as

the widow was claiming in her own right, and not as an heir, As regards the

cases where the widow (or other relative.) claims as an heir, the High Court

made the following observations, which are relevant to the provisions of the Succession Act :----- 34.26. For these reasons, in our opinion, the appropriate course would Recommendaﬁon
be to add to section 214, an Explanation lll suitable terms so as to ensure :9 add an Explana-
that the section will not--as is the practice at present--be utilised as a shelter "On to Section 214

in everv case for deceased '$5 b*° PaY"'°"' °f' - ' e t. We recommend that the section should be amended accordingly'. 'The Banking Laws Amendment Act. i983. 'See para 34 . 45, I'nﬁ'a, for a suggested re-draft ofthe section. VI. Scope of the expression "Debt". Meaning of "debt" 34.2'/"._There seems to be a conﬂict of decisions on the exact scope of
l3_0$ba.V and Patna_tlie expression "debt" in sections 214, 370, 372(l)(t) and 381. The conflict
"' * 1S apparent from a Bombay Judgment', which has discussed the matter at length. dissenting from an Allahabad case*, and agreeing with a Patna case". 1n the Patna' case. the appellant applied. under section 370, for a succession
certificate in respect of certain ornaments pledged with the Punjab National
Bank at Darbhanga. The High Court dismissed the application, holding that
the expression "debts and securities" (in sections 370 and 381 )5 did not cover
pledged ornaments,

Allahabad view. 34.28. In the Allahabad case', one lady had died in the Kumbha Mela
tragedy and the district authorities had taken possession of certain cash and
ornaments from the body of the deceased. When the petitioners, as her heirs,
asked for the return of valuables, the authorities insisted on the production
of a succession certiﬁcate. Consequently, the petitioners approached the court
for the purpose. The -question arose whether "do.-ht" would cover pledged
movables. The High Court held that the term "debt" meant a liability owing
from one person to another whether in cash or kind, secured or unsecured,
whether ascertained or ascertainable, arising out ot' any obligation, express or
implied. The refund of ornaments recovered from the dead body became an
obligation of the authorities who were bound to hand over the same to the
person entitled. Accordingly, a succession certiﬁcate was granted. Bombay case. 34.29. The Bombay case' discusses the problem of interpretation of the
term 'debt' at great length. In that case, one lady had died in 1963, leaving
behind her husband and three sons. Her husband died in 1966, leaving behind
his three sons. The lady had taken a demand loan of Rs. 3.000 from the State
Bank of India on the security of certain ornaments. The sons paid off the
loan amount with interest to the Bank, and claimed return of the goldpledged.
The Bank informed them that it could not reurn the jewellery in the absence
of a succession certiﬁcate. The sons made an application for a succession certi-
ﬁcate. The High Court, construing the term 'debt' narrowly, held that a.certi-
ﬁcate could not be granted in respect of the ornaments pledged with the Bank.
Thereupon, the petitioner sought leave of the court to withdraw the application.
which was allowed. Recommendation 34,30, In this position. it is desirable to settle the law on the subject. '° 5°"'° the ''''w' Although, in general, "debt" could be taken as conﬁned to a monetary obligation
for a liquidated amount, practical considerations require that the expression
"debt" should, for the purposes of sections 214, 370(1) and 381, be deﬁned
as including any actionable claim. We recommend that the law should be amended on the above lines. Of course, the ellect of the proposed amendment would he to extend the
restrictive as well as the beneﬁcial provisions of the Act to actionable claims.
But that would he the only logical course. Gist of the re1e- 34.3]. It may be mentioned for ready reference that section 370(1) pro-
va_ntsectf0nsSumm'v'ides that a succession certiﬁcate shall not be granted with respect to any
"'9'-'d' "debt" or security to which a right is required by section 212 or section 213

to be established by letters of administration or probate. Section 372(l)(f)
provides, inter alia, that an application for succession certiﬁcate shall set forth
the "debts" and securities in respect to which the certiﬁcate is applied for. Section
381 provides that the succession certiﬁcate shall, with respect to the "debts" and

'Ranchoddas v. Gavind Das, (1976) 78 Born. L.R. 219 (Madon .1.)

"Dimznal/1 V. Balkris/ma, A.l.R. 1963 All. 46 (Mithan La1,J.). ,-S/zyam Sumltzri Devi \'. Sar/a Devi, A.l. R. 1962 Patna 220. 'Shyam Slmdhri Dew" \'. Sarla Devi, A.l.R. 1962 Pat. 220 (Untwaha. .l.t.
'a. For gist ofthe sections see para 34. 31. infra. 'Dina .\"ar/t v. Balkris/ma, A.I.R. 1963 All. 46 (Mithan Lal 1.). 34.33. in our view, it is desirable that the matter should he put beyond Recommendationto
possible controversies by codifying the Allahabad viewi. An Explanation on the add 31! Explaglatioll
subject could be usefully added to the section*'_ for the purpose. :':'.:° '"""'"'°" °f

VIII. J oint decrees. 34.34. Another question concerning the provisions of section 214 arises Joint scenes,
in connection with joint decrees. Where the decree was passed jointly in favour
of more than one decree-holder, and each one of them in his own right could
execute the decree (provided the execution is for the beneﬁt of all)', the bar in
section 214 does not apply'. Section 214, it has been held, can apply only when
there is one decree--ho1der. Where there is only one decree-holder, taken on the
death of the decree-holder, the legal representatives have no right to take out
execution proceedings unless they have stepped into the shoes of the decree-
holder by obtaining a succession certiﬁcate. In a Rajasthan case', there was
only one decree-holder. and in order to avoid future conflicts between rival
claimants, the bar of section 214 was held to apply. An Assam case', is to the
same effect. IX. Continuation of proceedings. 34.35. With reference to section 2l4(l)(b), a controversy has arisen S€Cti0n_ 214 (1) (b)- whether it bars the continuation of an execution proceeding without obtaining iIi"°°""°" p'°°°°d'
a succession certiﬁcate. According to one view'-'°, the main purpose of section g" According to a contrary view'--"' an application by a legal representative to
bring himself on record in a pending case should be treated as an application for
fresh execution, and thtrefore attracts the provisions of section 2144. According to a recent Kerala judgmenti. section 2l4 applies to the continu-
ation of execution proceedings. Recommendation 34.36. Whatever be the true construction of the present wording, practical
:9 add an Explana_- considerations require that the former view should be adopted, i.c. the continuation
"°". "Sf" °°!"" of execution proceedings by the legal representative should not be hit by the
g::':é;:ﬁ£]g°sx°°""°" section. A suitable Explanation should be added to deal with the matter'. No
' doubt, the object of section 214(1) is to protect the interest of the debtor and
to see that only the person entitled to succeed to the assets realises the debt
owing to the deceased. Nevertheless, there is a limit to which one can give
effect to this logic. Considerations of expeditious disposal. must, at_some stage,
prevail. If a \yrong person conti}r!1ues the execution. the rightful heir can claim

the fruits of t e recovery from im. X. Mortgage decrees. Secured debts posi- 34.37. Certain questions have arisen as to whether a decree (preliminary

"W 'eluding m°l"or ﬁnal) for the foreclosure or sale of property can be passed wthout a succession

""3°d°°'°°5' certiﬁcate where the mortgagee has died. Should the legal representative be
asked to produce a succession certiﬁcate before obtaining such a decree? Section
214 does not expressly include within its scope a decree for the enforcement of
the mortgagee's rights against the mortgaged property. Foreclosure. 34.38. On a detailed examination of the case law, the position appears to
be this, A decree for the foreclosure of a mortgage is not one for the payment
of a "debt" so as to fall within the provision of section 214. The direction to
pay within the period ﬁxed in the decree, is given not to fix a personal liability
for the debt, but to enable the defendants to save their right of redemption and
to prevent its extinction by foreclosure". Money due under 34.39. suit to recover the money due under a usufruct_uar__v mortgage is
usufnlctuary m0r- also not a suit for "debt" or money due under a contract, but is, in reality, one
'3'5'- for assessment in money of the value of the plaintiffs mortgage interest". Redemption. 34.40. A suit for redemption (brought by the heir of the mortgagor') is also
not a suit against a debtor to obtain a decree for payment of his "debt". The
plaintiff is really the debtor, and not the creditor of the deceased mortgagor,
Obviously, therefore. a person who, as heir of the mortgagor, is bringing a suit
for redemption, is not suing to recover any debt, and a succession certiﬁcate
is not required". 1Benon'ev. Pnrnemlu, A.l.R. l973 Cal. 352, 353,(A.K. Sarirar, 1.). 3.5':-r'na!.7r KImndr>7wa.'. V. Bi.cn-mmrh Pn'., /\.l.R. i972 All. 321, 323, 32-1, para 7~9 (M.N, Shukl-4
J.}. ,.,Teji-am Rajmul v. Ranrp_mrr' Kmzdan La}, A.l.R. I938 Nag. 53?.
' Trjmm Rrrimal v. Rampyari Krrrrda/1La/. A JR. 1938 Nag. 538.
'5C}Iac/(0 V. I«'arg/1e.s'e, A.l.R. I956 Tra. Co. I83.
'Ganeshamal v. Anand Kanwcrr, A.I.R. 1968 Raj. 273. 7Rr1mkrr'shmm Nair v. Easwnri dmmu, H979} K.L.T. 40] (June 4 and June ll. I979), (I979)
yearly Digest. Supplement. Col. 1994. '°.4rtmm_eaI: V. Valura Goundan (1901) I.L.R. 24 Mad. 22
"7.ufet'AIiv.Km11ff'rakas/r, A.l.R. 1929 All. 896 (Dalal J.). I93

54.41. According to the majority of the High Courts, :1 suit to recover money Suits for Sale of mo-
due on a simple mortgage, by sale of the mortgaged property, is also not a suit 'waged 9'°"°"'Y-
for the recovery of a 'debt'. It is :1 suit to enforce a charge on immovable property.
and no succession certiﬁcate. therefore, need he obtained by the heirs of the
mortgagee to recover the money'. 'The mere fact that the remedy by personal decrezs for the debt is still
available to the mortgagee would not also make any difference". On this view. (,9) Pallurmnju \'. Bupamta. (I899) l.L.R. 22 Mad. 380. (It) Pr1lam'_t'um'li V. Veemmmul, (I906) I.L.R. 29 Mad. 77. (1') B(l.S'.'l Dmwrrr/Id V. Ragfttz/iii' St'n't1!I, /\.l.R. I955 Pat. 284, 286, 287. =Rr1ma.mmr' v. Vmz/mnmm. A.l.R. I963 A.P. 135. I36. 137. paras 7 and I2 ("reviews case law)
dissenting From Intel: Clumd \'. Muhammed Baksh, (I894) l.L.R. 16 All. 259. 3(a) Fate}: Clmmf \'. .=\/In/tmrznind Bu/t viz (I894) l.L.R. 16 All. 259 (I-'.B.') (Case under section 4-
Succession Certiticate Act. I880). (bl .41/(1/I Dari K/mn \'. Sam' Ram (I912) l.L.R. 35 AH. 74, 7'/'(D.B.l

(cl Azmar \'. Sf!/rt. 9 A.L.J. 766, l6 l.C. I08. 'Kasumarz' V. Mu"/rku, A.I.R. I937 All. 227: (This was a suit tor salewsee Zafar Ali v. Kanti
Prakash A.I.R. I929 All . 896.)
jI'}l0hﬂ'fTlNl(7d I/Ira/u'm \. B/trt.t,>n'm1 Das, A.l.R. I935 All. 897. 898. (Sulaiman CJ. and Ben-
net . 'Kulwrz/Ila Beam \'. Kr.-mm ('/lawn'. (I942). 43 C.W'.N. 4: A.l.R. I983 Cal. '/I4. 5. 7(0) Na/m'ra1m'v. Yenmm, I.L.R. 28 Bom. 630. lb) Sahader v. Sukhawar, I0 C.W.N_. I45, I49. (cl Abdul Sattar v. Scttva Blirlsharr (I908 ). l.l'..R. 35 Cal. 767. Recommended

amendments

s ection

Section

Section 194 1. Recommendation as to section 214. 34.45. We have disposed of the various questions relating to section 214. in For carrying out the points made so far in earlier paragraphs with reference to

2l5. 216.

section 214, we recommend the insertion of the following Explanations to the
section 

"Explanation li.--~Nothing in this section shall be construed as precluding
a debtor of a deceased person from making payment of a debt to a person
(in this Explanation referred to as the 'payee") claiming, on succession,
to be entitled to the effects of the deceased person or to any part thereof,
where the debtor is satisﬁed that the payee is so entitled and has taken
from the payee a bond indemnifying the debtor; and where a debtor makes
such payment in good faith and after due care and attention, he shall not be
bound to make payment of the debt again to the person entitled to the effects
of the deceased person or to any part thereof, as the case may be, but
nothing in this Explanation shall affect any remedy which the person so
cntitlegi may have against the payee who has received payment from the
debtor." continuance by a legal representative of a proceeding for execution already
initiated'." X11. Miscellaneous. 34.46. This takes us to section 215, which reads as under :-- The section seems to need no change. 34.47. According to section 216, after any grant of probate or letters of

administration, no person other than the person to whom the same may have
been granted shall have power to sue or prosecute any suit, or otherwise act as

'lf so considered necessary, the first could be limited to claims for small amounts.
'See para 34. 36, supra. 3The deﬁnition of "debt" should, besides being incorporated in section 214, also be made

applicable to sections 212, 370. 372(1) and 379,

'See para 34. 30, supra. 'See para 34. 33. supra. 'See para 34.36, supra. {JR 19 representative of the deceased, throughout the State in which the same may have
been granted. until such probate or letters of administration has or have been
recalled or revoked. This section also needs no change, having created no serzous problems. CHAPTER 35

PROBATE, LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION AND ADMlNIS'I'RATION
OF ASSETS OF THE DECEASED

SECTION 217--236

35.1. Probate, letters ot administration and 21(.lII1lI'lis'lL'uli0n of assets and Scope.
liabilities of the deceased, form the subject matter of sections 217 to 236. The
sections are mostly of a procedural character. 35.2. Section 217, the first section in this group, provides that save as section 217_
otherwise provided by this Act or by any other law for the time being in force.
all grants of probate and letters of administration with the will annexed shall
be made and the administration of assets of the deceased in cases of intestate
succession shall be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of this Part. The section needs no change, being a purely introductory provision.
35.3. The next section 218 reads as under :-- sccmm 213,

"'2l8(l) If the deceased has died intestate and was :1 Hindu, Muhammadan,
Buddhist, Sikh or Jain or an exempted person, administration of his estate
may be granted to any person who, according to the rules for the distribution
of the estate applicable in the case of such deceased. would beentitled to
the whole or any part of such deceased's estate. (2) When several such persons apply for such administration. it shall be
in the discretion of the court to grant it to any one or more of them. (3) When no such person applies, it may be granted to a creditor or
the deceased." 35.4. In the context of this section, we propose to consider one question Joint fan-my pm.
that has arisen. Where joint family property passes by survivorship to the sole petty passing by
surviving co--parcener, the question arises whether the sole surviving co-parcener S"fV|V°fShIp-
is entitled to apply for letters of administration under section 218, ls he a person
'who would be entitled to the whole or part of the estate of the deceased' within
the meaning of the section? There seems to be a conflict of decisions on the

subject. 35.5. A Madras case' answers the above, question in the atiirmative, though Conflict of news.
the observations in the case may be regarded as obiter. But. according to the
Punjab view, if the deceased person and the present P€titioner were members of
a joint family, then, immediately on the death of the deceased, his interest in
the estate at once ceases and the whole interest in the estate belongs to the
petitioner by survivorship, and there is no "estate of the deceased" to be adminis-
tered: there is no "succession" to the deceased's estate, because he has left
nothing to succeed to. Qonsequently. an application for letters of administration

is not competent in such cases? tin m pm Mmzarala, (1910) l.L.R. 33 Mad. 93, 97; 10 M.L.J. 591 (case under Court Fees
Act , construing section 23 . Probate and Admn. Act). '

9(0) Utram Devi v. Dina Nath, 5 PR. 1919, 51 I.C. 651. 652, distinguishing in re Desu Manavalu,
l.L.R. 33 Mad. 93, on the ground that the remarks therein were obftor.
(bl Ranmgiri v. Govindanunalr. A.l.R. 1924 Rang. 329. 330. Recommendation 218 Section

to amend section 219. 196 The Bombay practice, as is shown by some reported cases', is that when
the court grants letters of administration, it is not concerned with inquiries
about title. But the Bombay cases did not relate to claims by suri-ir0r3v'ti[;, The
claimants (petitioners) had their claim on the basis of succession, and it was
the opposite party that put forth a case that the property was joint family property.
The court held that it was not concerned with the question whether the property
was, or was not, joint family property. It was no part of the duty of the testa-
mentary Judge to consider the question of title to property. The real conﬂict is between the Punjab and .\/lzulras rulings. as stated
above. 35.6. We are of the opinion that it is desirable to clai'ily, the position, in
view of the conflict of decisions on the subject'-'. The Punjab view may, on a
literal construction of the section, be correct. But if the law is to be clariﬁed, the
choice, we think, should be in favour of the Madras view, which is more practical
and more convenient. We, therefore, recommend that the Madras view should
be adopted, by amending section 218 in a suitable manner. This could be done
by inserting an Explanation to section 218 in the following terms. 35.8. This takes us to section 219. It provides that it the deceased has died
intestate and was not a person belonging to any of the classes referred to in
section 218, those who are connected with him. either by marriage or by con-
sanguinity, are entitled to obtain letters of administration of his estate and effects
in the order and according to the rules hereinafter stated, namely :- There are two illustrations annexed to this clause, as under :----- (b) Next, it is provided that if the Judge thinks proper, he may associate
any person or persons with the widow in the administration who would
be entitled solely to the administration if there were no widow. (C) If there is no widow, or if the Court sees cause to exclude the widow.
it shall commit the administration to the person or persons who would
be beneﬁcially entitled to the estate according to the rules for the
distribution of an intestate's estate. Provided that. when the mother of the deceased is one of the class of
persons so entitled. she shall 'be solely entitled to administration, (d) Those' who stand in equal degree of kindred to the deceased are equally
entitled to administration. ( e) The husband surviving his wife has the same right of administration
of her estate as the widow has in respect of the estate of her husband. '(a) 00Ch(1l'aI'dHI \'. Dalutram. l.L.R'. 28 Born. 644 (Jenkins. C.J.). (bl Parrati Rm' \'. Ragllttnmt/1 l.u.\'/nan. (I940) 42 Bom. LR. I053 (Kama. .l.). A.l.R. I941
Bom. 60. tion shall be granted according to the foregoing rules, notwithstanding
that he had. his domicile in a country in which the la\v relating to
restate and intestate succession differs from the law of India. 35.9. In this section, section 219, clause (a), illustration (ii)', needs some Recommendation
comments. Clause (at) provides that the court may exclude a widow on the go amend SW10'
~ , - ,- , - as , _ - , - -19 (a) Illustra- ground ot some personal disqualiﬁcation or because she has no IHILICSC in the mm (H)

estate of the deceased". In this connection, illustration (ii) to the clause provides '

that the fact that the widow has married again since the dccease of her husband

is not a good cause for her exclusion (from the preferential right conferred by

the section), This illustration seems to require some modiﬁcation, The widow

who has remarried may not, in every case, be a suitable person to administer the

property of her deceased husband. All that can be said is that mere i-c--nzarr~iage

of the widow need not deprive her of the preferential right, lllus-'_ration (ii) to section 2 'l9(a) should, therefore, be revised as under :-- We recommend accordingly. 35.10. Section 220 provides that letters of adininistration entitle the adminis- SGCUOH _ 330" C is appointed executrix by implication. (iii) A appoints several persons executors of his will and codicils and his
nephew residuary legatee, and in another codicil are these. words.~--"I appoint
my nephew my residuary legatee to discharge all lawful demands against
my will and codicils signed on different dates". The nephew is appointed an
executor by implication." The section heeds no change, not having created any serious controversies. 35.13. There is one new point requiring consideration. As the law in India SCCUOH 2?-25
stands at present, a person appointed executor in the will must be given the gggfﬁggitor
grant of probate (if he applies for it), irrespective of his personal unﬁtness for '
the position". He can be removed only if, after commencing the administration
of the aﬁairs of the deceased, he commits breach of trust, waste or other default. etion 223 - Pro- 35.17. Section '223 prohibits the issue of probate to persons who are minor
te to minors and or of unsound mind and restricts the grant of probate as regards certain classes
3°'|'°1""'°"5- of corporations. We are primarily concerned with the portion relating to corpora- tions. On a literal reading of the section, probate cannot be granted to any

'R. V. Raines, (1698) l Ld. Raym 36]: 9| E.R. 1138 Halsbury. 4th Ed.. Vol. l7, para 720.
page 381. 9F.C. Hurley, "Reconstruction of the law of Succession" (I973) Vol. 15. Journal of the Indian
Lawlnstitute, 420,424. 'Catholic Bishops' Conference of lndia. letter dated 3rd October, l984. I99

"association" of individuals unless it is a ('Uni/)(Hl_\' satisfying the prescribed require-
ments. 35.18. Some diﬂiculty is created by the word "a.ss0ciation", in relation to
non-commercial corporations. For example, does this word cover a University?
This question arose before the Allahabad High Court a few years ago. The High
Court held that the Banaras University was a "corporation", but was not an
"association", because a corporation having a separate identity from its members
cannot be called a mere "association" of individuals 4-'. The Allahabad High Court also cited an English case", where James L. J.
had regarded "company" and "association" as synonymous, The Allahabad
case actually related to section 236, but is equally applicable to section 223, the
wording in both sections (so far as is material) being the same. A similar vicw seems to have been taken by the Oudh' Chief Court, and
(impliedly), by the Calcutta High Court": and further permit the grant of probate to a corporation aggregate which is not
a trust corporation. In the latter case, however (i.e. in the case of :1 corporation
aggregate which is not a trust corporation), the probate must be granted to its
nominee. It must also be shown that the corporation has power to act as personal
representative. and certain other safeguards are laid down'. in lndia, probate cannot be granted to a registered society", because of the
restricted language of section 223. A registered society is an "association", but
not a "company". 35.20. We are of the view that the section should be made as comprehensive
as possible. In any case, it appears to be desirable to revise the section so as to
indicate s ciﬁcally which corporate bodies can, or cannot, be granted probate.
As regar 5' companies, the existing restriction may continue. As regards other
corporate bodies, it is enough if the corporate body applying for probate is
competent to accept probate in law----a question primarily to be decided with
reference to the law governing its consitution. 3S.20A. In a suggestion forwarded to us by the Catholic Bishops' Conference
of India", it has been stated that the Church will have to frame rules, if it is to be
legally empowered to seek probate. The relevant paragraph in the letter is some-
what un-intelligible, but this seems to be its purport. In this connection, we may
point out that the law can merely provide for the capacity of corporations as
recognised in the legal system. Internal formalities, such as rules, will, of course,
have to be observed by the concerned agencies or authorities within the Church,
assuming that a particular Church is recognised as a corporation in law. 35.21. Accordingly. we recommend the following re-draft of section 223---- '"223. Probate cannot be granted---- (a) to any person who is a minor or is of unsound mind, or

'B;w(v2rz/2.r Hindu Unversity v. Gnuri Duff, AIR. 1950 A11 195-

'3Bagchi. Principles of the Law of Corporations, Tagore Law Lectures. (l9l4't. pages 253-259-

referred to. 35.22. According to section 224, when several executors are appointed.
probate may be granted to them simultaneously or at different times. The section needs no change. 35.23. Section 225 provides that if a codicil is discovered after the grant of
probate, a separate probate of that codicil may be granted to the executor, if it
in no way repeals the appointment of executors made by the will. It also provides
that if different executors are appointed by the codicil, the probate of the will
shall be revoked and a new probate granted of the will and the codicil together. No amendment is required in the section. which has raised no problems. 35.24. According to section 226, when probate has been granted to several
executors, and one of them dies, the entire representation of the testator accrues
to the surviving executor or executors. No amendment is required in this section

also. 35.25. Section 227 provides that probate of a will, when granted, establishes
the will from the death of the testator, and renders valid all intermediate acts of
the executor as such. This section also needs no change. 35.26. Section 228 provides that when a will has been proved and deposited
in a court of competent jurisdiction situated beyond the limits of the State, whether
within or beyond the limits of India, and a properly authenticated copy of the
wlil is produced, letters of administration may be granted with a copy' of such.
will annexed. Certain questions arise under this section, which concern section 241 also.
Section 241 is as follows :-- 35.27. The question that needs to be considered regarding the precise scope
this. When a will has been proved and deposited in a
court of competent jurisdiction situated beyond the limits of the State, which
is the provision whereunder letters of administration (with the will annexed or
with a copy of the authenticated copy of the will annexed), can be granted to the
attorney of the absent executor? It may be noted that section 241 postulates
production of the original will-----note the words 'with the will annexed". In contrast.
section 228 speaks of a copy of the will being annexed. '

35.28. It is necessary to refer to two cases---one decided by the Allahabad
High Court and the other by the Madras High Court--dealing with the question. In the Allahabad case', a person had died in Scotland leaving property both
in India and in the U. K». By his will, he appointed an executor, who, in due
course, obtained 'conﬁrmation' of the will from the Court of Scotland. The executor
then appointed the present applicant as his attorney for the purpose of apply-
ing to the proper court in India for letters of administration with an authenti--
cated copy of the will annexed. The attorney accordingly applied to the High

Court of Allahabad. 'Note the word 'copy'. '-'Note the word 'will'. 3Para 35 .26, supra. 'In re AdwaitNa!h, A.I.R. 1948 All. 351 (F.B.). Qlll

The High Court noted that the practice in Madras, Calcutta and 'Bombay
had been to grant the letters of administration in such cases under section 241,
but observed that, "the provisions of section 241, were not intended to apply.
nor are they appropriate, to the case in which a grant of pi-abate has alirzxrly been
0l)ftilll('¢"l in another court. The section applicable in such case is section 228'.
The High Court took the view that it may, under section 228. grant letters of
administration, with a copy ol:' the authenticated copy of the will annexed. to
the agent or attorney of the executor. 35.29. In the Madras case', a lady had died in Eiiglanil, leaviiig a will. By
the will she appointed her two nieces to be the executrixes. They obtained probate
in England and appointed the Lloyds Bank Ltd., Calcutta, as attorneys, who.
in turn, appointed one of their 0lllC6l'S, as Attorney, to obtain letters of administra-
tion with a copy of the will annexed, in respect of the property of the deceased
in India. The officer of the Lloyds Bank ﬁled a petition in the Madras High Court
for the grant of letters of administration, to have effect only in the State of
Madras, along with a certiﬁed copy of the probate. The question for consideration before the High Court was whether the grant
was to be a grant of letters of adniinistratioii under section 241 01' under section 228. The question was material, because the petitioner was unable to produce the
will in orighial. The Court observed that section 241 did not require the production
of the original will. Since the will had been proved and depositcrl in a court of
competent jurisdiction in England, what can be produced here is only a properly
authenticated copy of the will. Therefore, a case coming under section 228 would
be an exception to the general rule" in section 276 as to the production of the
will in origitzal, though the exception is not mentioned in section 276. The court said that in section 241, the expression "letters of adniinistration
with the will annexed' had been used in antithesis to letters of administration
granted on intestacy. It was permissible to read section 241 along with section
228, and an attorney or agent of the executor can obtain letters of administration
without producing the original will, if the will had been proved and deposited in
a competent court and a properly authenticated copy of the will is produced. 35.30. The points of difference between the Allahabad and the Madras
view can he thus summarised : The controversy has a practical aspect also, concerned with the furnishing
of a bond. In the kind of cases mentioned above, when the letters of administration
were granted under section 228 by the Allahabad High Court, the petitioner had
been asked to furnish an administration bond as required by section 291(1).
Since the Madras High Court granted letters of administration under section 241,
an administration bond under section 291(1) was not required to be furnished.
The Madras High Court, expressing its disagreement with the above-mentioned
Allahabad High Court decision, observed, "Sections 228 and 241 should not be
read as if they provided _for separate 'circumstances and they were mutually
exclusive. On the other hand, they could be read together. lt -is true that the
objects of these two sections differ. The real object of section 228 is to dispense
with the production of the proof thereof, for the reason that it had already been
proved and had been deposited in a court of competent jurisdiction. The real
'In re L.C. [.evar/r, A.l.R. 1954 Mad. 898 (PB). 2Section 276. Points of ditierencc
between Allahabad
and Madras view
summarised. Recommendation _
for amending sec-- by amending section 241 so as to add' an Explanation to the effect that (3)

tion

Section 229 to 231. Section

Universal 241. 232.

and 202 object ol'_section 241 is to dispense with an application by the executor himself
when he is absent from the province in which the application is made." _ According to the Allahabad High Court, these sections are mutually exclu--
sive and deal with separate circumstances. The Madras High Court, however,
holds that they are not mutually exclusive and do not provide for separate sets
of circumstances. 35.31. in our opinion, it is desirable that the controversy should be resolved

section 241 will apply also where the case falls under section 228 and (b) if
the case falls under section 228. a copy of the will is to sutﬁce and the original
need not be produced. 35.32. Section 229 to 231 deal with renunciation. Although section 230
is applicable only in the case of an executor, and there is no corresponding pro-
vision in the act with regard to an administrator, still there is no reason why
the principle of these sections should not apply to an administrator. In English
law and practice, there is, as regards the right of renunciation, no distinction made
between the case of an executor and that of an administrator, and the same rule
should apply in India. As regards the withdrawal of renunciation, the rule is that u renunciation
by an 'ddmlIl.lSlI'EitOl' cannot be withdrawn without the leave of the court, and he
can be allowed to withdraw only in a fit and proper case and not merely on
the ground that he has changed his mind". 35.33. Section 232 reads :--~

"232. When---- (a) the deceased has made a will, but has not appointed an executor,
or (b) the deceased has appointed an executor who is legally incapable
or refuses to act, or who has died before the testator or before he has
proved the will, or (c) the executor dies after having proved the will, but before he has
administered all the estate of the deceased. an universal or a residuary legatee may be admitted to prove the will, and
letters of administration with the will annexed may be granted to him of
the whole estate, or of so much thereof as may be unadmimstered". 35.34. Section 232 is concerned with two classes of legatees, namely the

'°5'd""'"3" '°3"'°°S universal legatee and the residuary legatee. The universal legatee is one who, by

No change needed
in section

virtue of the will, is entitled to the whole of the testator's property. In the absence
of the executor, he has been given the right to prove the will and' to obtain letters
of administration with the will annexed. He cannot, however, obtain probate. The residuary legatee is, it is said, the testator's choice; he is the next person
in his election to the executor3. When the residum has been disposed of to another
person, there would be no purpose in giving the administration to the next--of-kin,
because no beneﬁt can accrue to them by the grant of the Letters of Administration

in such cases. 35.35. What words would create a universal or residuary legatee is not

232' a matter with which we are concerned at the moment. that teing a question of

cor struction of the words of the will. It is enough to note zhat there are adequate

reasons for the grant of letters of Administration to the universal legatee or the . residuary legatee. in preference to the next-of-kin. The section, therefore, needs no change. 7'4'l:o be carried out under section 24 l 
3The Mancltersa, A.l.R. l929Bom. 33, 34 (Rangnekar 1.).
Atkins v. Bernard. 2 Phill, C.l8. cited in N.D. Basu. Law of Succession (1957), page 699. 35.36. Section 233 provides that when a residuary legatec who has a bene-- Section

ﬂcial interest survives the testator, but dies before the estate has been fully adminis-
tered, his representative has the same right to administration with the \vill annexed

as such residuary legatee. The section needs no change,

35.37. According to section 234, when there is no egtecutor and no residuary
legatee or representative of a residuary legatee, or he declines or is incapable to
act, or cannot be found, the person or persons who would be entitled to the
administration of the estate of the deceased if he had died intestate, or any other
legatee having a beneﬁcial interest, or a creditor, may be admitted to prove the
will, and letters of administration may be granted to him or them accordingly. The section needs no change,

35.38. According to section 235, letters of administration with the will annexed
shall not be granted to any legatee other than an universal or a residuary legatee,
until a citation has been issued and published in the manner hereinafter mentioned,
calling on the next--of-kin to accept or refuse letters of administration. The section also needs no change. 35.39. Section 236 provides as follows 2

"236. Letters of administration cannot be granted to any person who is a
minor or is of unsound mind, nor to any association of individuals unless it

is a company which satisﬁes the conditions prescribed by rules to be made by
the State Government in this behalf." 35.40. In view of what has been stated' above under section 223. we re-
commend that section 236 should be revised as follows :--- CHAPTER 36
LIMITED GRANTS : SECTIONS 237 TO 260 233.
Section 234. Section 235. Section 236. Recommendation. 36.] Limited grants are dealt with in some detail in sections 237 to 260. Limited grams_

The various types ol such grants are as follows :---
I. grants limited in duration--sections 237 to 240; II. grants for the use and beneﬁt of others having a right--sections 24l---
246; III. grants for special purp0ses------secti0ns 247---254; IV. grants with exception---sections 255-256; V. grants of the rCst------section 257; VI. grants of effects un--administered---sections 258~--260. lseediscussion as to section 223, supra. 85-L/B(D)l44MofLJ&CA-14

Sections 237-238
Introductory. Loss of will before

death--applicability

of section_ 237. Section 23 8- Narrow scope. Defect in section
237 as to destruc- tion otherwise than
the act or mistake
of testator. Testator not men- tally competent. Want of symmetry
between sections 237
and 238. 1. Grants limited in duration. _ 36.2. Section 237 deals two situations. When a will has been lost or mislaid
SIl1Ce the testator's death, probate may be granted of a copy or draft of the
will. This is the ﬁrst situation dealt with in the section. The second situation
relates to the cases where a will, "has been destroyed by wrong or accident and
not by any act of the testator". Here again, a copy or the draft may be utilised
for the grant of probate. In both the cases, the probate is limited until the
original Wlll or a properly authenticated copy is produced. __

36.3. According to judicial construction of section 237, the words "since
the testator's death" qualify only the word "mislaid", and have no referene to
the word "lost". Thus, according to judicial construction, probate can be granted
where the will is lost before or after the testator's death. In our opinion, it is
desirable to codify this interpretation so as to make the section self-contained. Of course, the general rule: that there is a rebuttable presumption that the
testator destroyed the will where the will lost proved to be in his custody
and is not forthcoming applies in India also. At least, it was so held in a
Calcutta case? -But another case' seems to create a doubt in this regard, inasmuch as it
holds that there is no rule of law that under certain circumstances a presumption
should be made that the will was revoked. In our opinion, the earlier Calcutta
case takes :1 more practical view. and that view should be incorporated in the

section'. 36.4. Under section 238, probate can be granted if the will has been lost
or destroyed and no copy has been made or draft preserved, Probate is then
granted of the contents of the will "if, they (the contents) can be established by
evidence". "Evidence" here, of course, means secondary evidence. The topic was
discussed in detail in the leading English case of Sugden v. Lord St. Leonw-ds',
where 21. will was established by parol evidence alone. 36.5. Reverting to section 237, it -would appear that section 237 is narrowly
drawn. The words 'wrong or accident' do not, if taken literally, cover the
cases where a natural calamity, such as a ﬂood, destroys the will. The section
is ,also defective, inasmuch as the language does not make it clear that the
section applies only where the testator had no intention of revoking the will.
If an act of the testator done with the intention of revoking the will result in
"destruction of the will", it is obvious that the section should not be applicable.
This situation should be exeulded from the scope of the section? 36.6 On the other hand, where, though the will is destroyedl by the
physical act of the testator, the testator is not a person in possession of his
mental faculties, the situation should be included in the section. We are recom- mending to cover these points". In connection with this section, certain question Ltriseby reason of secton 273. Section 273 reads---- shall, unless otherwise directed by the grant, have like effect throughout the
other States". 36.14. It should be noted that section 273 empowers the court (in certain
cases) to make a grant elfective beyond the lmms of the State. In order that
the full beneﬁt of this wider jurisdiction of the court under section 273 may be
available, it is desirable that section 241 should also be relaxed, We, therefore,
recommend that suitable words excluding from section 241, the case, where an
order is passed under stction 273 proviso should be added. 36.15. Thrc is some obscurity on the question whether the "attorney"
(agent) should be a resident of the State. It appears, however, that the attorney
may reside anywhere in India, if the grant is by the High Court.-' This interpreta-
tion can be suitably codiﬁed. 36.16. In the light of the above discussion we recommend that section 241
should be revised as below; 36.17. Section 242 provides as follows :--~ Section 242. The section needs no change. 36.19. Section 244 reads as follows :-- Section 244. It has been held that the expression "legal guardian", in this section, means
a guardian appointed under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1980 . If the natural
guardian wants to apply under this section, he must first take proceedings (under
the Guardians and Wards Act ) to be appointed legal guardian.' If there is a
legal guardian of the person of the minor and another of the property of the
minor, the latter is entitled to the grant" (compare section 246, where the words
"care'of his estate" are used). A guardian appointed by the father under section 69 of the Succession Act
would appear to be a "legal guardian" within the meaning of this section. It appears desirable to codify the law on the subject, as laid down in the
above decisions. 36.20. In the light of the above, the following Explanation should be Recommendation to
inserted below section 244 :--- amend 5°'-'"°" 244-
Explanationz In this section, "legal guardian" means a guardian of the

property appointed by a person or authority having power to do so, whether
within or outside India, but does not include a natural guardian." 36.21. Section 245 deals with administration during the minority of Section 245-- Several executors or several residuary legatees. An administration during R°°°"""°"d'"i°"'

minority is, under the section, limited until one of the executors attains majority.
It is obvious that the section deals with the case dealt with in section 244 and,
is indeed, a kind of Explanation to that section. This should be brought out
by adding, after the words "the grant", the words and ﬁgures "under section 244". We recommend that section 245 should be amended accordingly. 36.22. Section 246 reads as follows :-- A Section 246. 'Ganjasur Koer V. The Collector of Patna, I.L.R. 25 Cal. 795. Overlapping with
section 244. Recommendation

to revise section246. Section 247» «
Administration
pendente lite. Section 247 (1)- who can apply. rule for the distribution of intestates' estate applicable in the case of the
deceased. is a minor or lunatic, letters of administration, with or without
the will annexed, as the case may be shall be granted to the person to whom
the care of his estate has been committed by competent authority, or, it'
there is no such person, to such other person as the Court may think fit to
appoint, for the use and beneﬁt of the minor or lunatic until he attains
m(t_i0riI_r or lwmnzcs of sozmd mind, as the case may be". ,

36.23. There is some overlapping between this section and section 244,
as regards a minor sole executor or a minor sole residuary legatee. In section
217 of the Succession Act of 1865 (corresponding to present section 246), the
word 'minor' did not occur, but the word -occured in section 33 of the Probate
and Administration Act. The effect wasthat as regards persons governed by the Succession Act of 1865 in the case of intestacy, if the minor was solely entitled
to the estate of the intestate, there was no provision for the grant of letters of
administration to his guardian on his behalf. If the minor was the sole executor
or sole universal or residuary legatee, grant could be made under section 215
(present section 244). The insertion of the word "minor" in section 246 (in
l925) was intended to supply this omission. But it has created overlapping'
so far as the minor sole' executor or minor sale residuary legatee is concerned, as
section 244 has already provided for this contingency. So far, therefore, as sec-
tion 246 is concerned the word "minor" should be read as conﬁned to the
case of intestacy. 36.24. In our opinion, it is desirable to amend section 246 to bring out
that point. To carry out the abo\'c object. we recommend that section 246 should be
revised as follows : llll. (Sran-ts for special purposes. 36.25. Ac'/m1'nistratimt pemlente lite is dealt with in section 247, which
reads as follows :----~
"247. Pending any suit touching the validity of the will of a deceased or for
obtaining or revoking any probate or any grant of letters of administration.
the Court may appoint an administrator of the estate of such deceased
person. who shall have all the rights and powers of a general administra-
tor, other than the right of distributing such estate, and every such adminis-
trator shall be subject to the immediate control of the court and shall act
under its direction". - 36.26. A question that requires to be considered is--Who can make an
application under this section ? In a Calcutta case', it was held that an applcation
under section 247 can be made only by the parties to the suit. According to the

'See Paruck, Sticcession'Act,"Comrnentary on section 246.
2Nirod \'. C/1amtkarz'm', (I392) 19 CW.N. 205. English practice, however, such an application may be made by any person
interested in the estate, and even by a creditor of the deceased.'

36.27. The appointment: of an administrator pendente lite does not follow Appointment- as a matter of course whenever litigation is pending. Before granting administra-
tion pcndrzle lite, the Court must be satisﬁed as to the necessity of such _'an
administrator. The applicant is required to show, for instance, that it is neces-
sary fon the preservation of the estate, for receiving rents, interest or dividends on
shares, and that no ﬁt and proper person is in a position to discharge these
offices". »

36.28. Having considered the present position, we are of the view that it is Recommendation
desirable to amend the section so as to provide that an application for the to amend Section
appointment of an administrator under the section can be made by any person 247-
interested in the estate, and even by a creditor of the deceased. Such a widening
of the section is likely to increase the utility of the section, in cases where the
parties to the suit do not take any initiativeﬂ An Explanation to the above
effect can be added. We recommend accordingly. 36.29. Section 248 reads---- » section 24g_

"248, If an executor is appointed for any limited purpose speciﬁed in the
will, the probate shall be limited to that purpose, and if he should appoint
an attorney or agent to take administration on his behalf, the letters of
administration, with the will annexed. shall be limited accordingly". The section needs no change. 36.30. Section 249 reads---- Section 250." The section needs ngchange. 36.32. Section 251 reads--~ Esecﬁon 25,_

"251. When it is necessary that the representative of a person deceased
be made a party to a pending suit, and the executor or person entitled to
administration is unable or unwilling to act, letters of administration may
be granted to the nomnee of a party in such suit, limited for the purpose of
representing the deceased in the said suit, or in any other cause or suit
which may be commenced in the same or in any other court between the
parties, or any other parties, touching the matters at issue in the said course
or suit, and until a ﬁnal decree shall be made therein and caried into com-
plete execution". The section needs no change. i T ichborne v. T ichborne, L.R.l /l.P.& D. 730. cited by Mitra, commentary on the Succession Act under section 247. 5'(a) Horrel V. Wirts, (1866) LP. & D. 103. (h) Bhuban Mo/rim' v. Kiranbala, 13 C.L.J. 47 ; 9 I.C. 215. 216 (Cal). (c) Jogenrlra v. Atindra,-13 C.L.J. 34; 2 I.C. 638, 639. (d) Pandurang v. Dwarkadas, A.I.R. 1933 Born. 342, 344. (e) In the Estate of Dav, (1940) 2 All E.R. 544. 'See In the Goods of Borendra Nat/1, A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 418.
'Compare the English practice in para 36 .26, supra. Section 252. Section 253. Section 254. Section 255. . Section 256. Case
sect ion. law on' the 210 36.33. Section 252 reads---- The section needs no change. 36.34. Section 253 reads---- The section needs no change. 36.36. Section 255 reads-- 36.37. Section 256 provides that whenever the nature of the case requires that
an exception be made, letters of administration shall be granted subject to such
exception

36.38. An important point concerning sections 255-256 arises out of a
Madras case.' In that case, the appellant, the widow of one S.R., had applied for
grant of letters of administration in respect of a bank account and death beneﬁt
payable by a company (apparently, the employer of the deceased). S.R. had
died at Madras, leaving a will dated 14~l-1964. He had an account in the United
Commercial Bank jointly with the appellant (the wife) and her daughter. The
respondent claimed to be the senior wife of the deceased and contended that the
assets left by the deceased amounted to much more than the value mentioned in the
affidavit of assets. She contended that it was necessary that all the assets of the
deceased should be valued and brought into the aﬁidavit of assest of the deceased,
for granting letters of administration. . 1HapzInab Annat/mi Rangqch(rr1' v. R. A/rcznt/talakslznzi Rangaclzari, 1975 A:Madrasv'_i42
(Veeraswami CJ. and Natarajan J.). The High Court, dealing with this contention, first noted that the general
rule is that the entire assets should be disclosed in the alﬁdavit of assets', which
will c-ount for \'aluati0n for the purposes of court fees. But where it is a case
of joint account in 21 bank and the amount is payable to either or survivor, the
nature of the case requires that it should be treated as an exception to the above
rule that the entirety of the assets of the deceased should be disclosed in the
aﬂidavit of assets. The High Court also held that it might not even be necessary
to obtain letters of administration. for there was, in this case, little to administer,
and the wife's right to draw the amount could be independently of the will. However, since the bank had been insisting on letters of administration,
the High Court held that the application should be granted, the case being treated
as one falling within the "exception" clause in section 255. 36.39. 'the facts of this case, when examined closely, disclose need for Recommendation
amending the law. It, in such cases, obtaining letters of administration becomes {is 'O 30"" a°C°"D*
necessary by reason ol the practice of banks, should it not be covered specifically "'aba--"k'
in section 255 (and also in section 256)? 36.40. As the language of section 255 stahds at present, the proposition that Recommendation
the grant can be limited to a particular item is not so evident from the section. 1°;-'t'm¢"d 5€°"°" object could he achieved by adding the following exception to section 253 : W. Grants of effects unadministered. 36.42. Section 258 provides that if an executor to whom probate has been Section 258.
granted has died, leaving a part of the testator's estate unadministered, a new
l'Cpl'C.SLlll.2lll\"C may be appointed for the purpose of administering such part of
the estate. The section does not appear to need any change,

36.43. in the next section 259, it is provided that in granting letters of an Section 259.
estate not fully administered, the Court shall be guided by the same rules as
apply to original grants, and shall grant letters of administration to those persons
only to whom original grants might have been made. The section needs no change. 36.44. Section 260 deals with the situation where at limited grant has Section 260. expired by etliux of time, or by the happening of the event of contingency on
which it was limited. If there is still some part of the deceased's estate unadrr_1inis-
tered, then letters of administration shall, according to the section, be granted to
those persons to whom original grants might have been made. The section needs
no change, having created no diﬁiculties,

'T.K. Pa.t'rhasarthy Nnidu in re : A.l.R. 1955 Mad. 411 was referred to. '-'Point is relevant to section 256 also, which may need consequential changes. Scope. Section 261. Section 262. Section 263----«
Revocation or annu- lment for Just cause. \i 21 I

('HAP'l'liR 37

ALTERATION AND Rlj\'0CAT!UZ\' 01? GRANIS : SECTIONS 261--263
37.1. Alteration and rcxocafon of grants form the subject matter of sections

261 to 263, which do not need any introductory comments.
_ 37.2. Section.2ol provides that errors in names and descriptions, or in
setting forth the time and place of the deceased's death, or the purpose in a

limited grant, may be rectified by the Court, and the grant of probate or letters of
adinmistration may be altered and amended accordingly,

The section needs no change. 37.3. Section 262 provides that if, after the grant of administration with the
Wlll annexed, a codicil is discovered, it may be added to the grant on due proof
and identiﬁcation. an(l the grant may be altered and amended accordingly. The section needs no change. 374. Under section 263 the grant of-probate or letters of administration
may be revoked or annulled for Just. cause. The Explanation provides that just
cause shall be deemed to exist where---- (a) the proceedings to obtain the grant were defective in substance; or (b) the grant was obtained fraudulently by making a false suggestion or
by concealing from the Court something material to the case; or

the grant was obtained by means of an untrue allegation of a fact
essential in point of law to justify the grant, though such allegation
was made in ignorance or inadvertently; or ' (c) (d) the grant has become useless and inoperative through circumstances; or (e) the person to whom the grant was made has wilfully and without reason- able cause omitted to exhibit an inventory or account in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter Vll of this Part, or has exhibited under that
Chapter an inventory or account which is untrue in a material respect. The (i) (ii) (iii) (iv)

following illustrations are appended: ed or adds to the appointment of executors under the will; (viii) the person to whom probate was, or letters of administration were,

granted, has subsequently become of unsound mind. It may be stated with reference to the second illustration that the absence of

citation on a person who' was interested, being a transferee from the heirs at

law, would be a defect of substance which is "just cause" within the meaning of
section 263. l'€>:planation. The case may be different, where the parties themselves have led evidence? '" m

Petition for probate. In what cases translation of will to be annexed to petition. Veriﬁcation
of translation by person other than Court translator.
Petition for letters of administration. or letters of

Addition to statement in petition. etc., for probate

administration in certain cases'. Petition for probate etc to be signed and veriﬁed.
Veriﬁcation of petition for probate. by one ﬁtness to will. Punishment for -false averinent in petition or declaration. .Procedure for hearing

Powers of District Judge. .Caveats against grant of probate or administration. Form of caveat. .At'ter entry of a caveat, no proceeding taken on petition until after

notice to caveator. .District Delegate when not to grant probate or administration. .Power to transmit statement to District Judge in doubtful cases, where

no contention. Section 264~~
Jurisdiction of Dis- trict judge in grant- ing and revoking
probzttes, etc.

Section 2o:'~«
District Delegates'
, Recommendation. Section 266
istrict Judgeis
Wcrs as to grant

probate and
dministration. IV: Disposal of Petitions. 288. Procedure where there is cotltcntiun, or District Delegate thinks probate
or letters of adiniiiisrrxition should be refused in his court. V. Grant of Prohzttc. VI. 289. Grant of probate to be under seal of Court. 290. Grant of letters of administration to be under seal of Court. 291. Administration--bond. 292. Assignment of administration-bond. 293. Time for grant of probate and administration, H 294.Filing of original wills of which probate or administration with will

annexed granted. 205. Procedure in contentious cases. 296. Surrender or revoked probate or letters of administration. 297. Payment to executor or administrator before probate or administration

revoked. Miscellaneous. ?.98.Power to refuse letters of administration. 299. Appeals from orders of District Judge. 300. Concurrent jurisdiction of High Court. 30!. Removal of executor or administrator and provision for successor. 302. Directions to executor or administrator,

I. Jurisdiction and connected matters. 38.2. Section 264 reads---- where the deceased is a Hindu, Muhammadan, Budhist, Sikh or Iain or an
exempted person, receive applications for probate or letters of administra-
tion until the State Government has, by a notiﬁcation in the olﬁcial Gazette.
authorised it so to do." The section needs no Change. 38.3. Section 265 reads---- We are ol the view that the proviso to sub--section(l) should be deleted as
unnecessary at the present day. and recommend its deletion. 38.4. Section 266 I'€1l(lS----- We have no comments on the section. 38.6. Section 268 provides that the proceedings of the Court of the Dis- Section 268.
trict Jud e in relation to the granting of probate and letters of administration shall,
save as 'ereinafter otherwise provided, be regulated, so far as the circumstances
of the case permit, by the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. We have no comments on the section.. 387. Section 269 reads---- madan, Budhist, Sikh or Jain or an exempted person. nor shall it apply
to any part of the property of an Indian Christian who has died intestate". We have no comments on the section. I

38.8. Section 270 provides that probate of the will or letters of administra- Section 270--When i

tion to the estate of deceased person may be granted by a District Judge under Pf°1.'3'° °' 3dmi"i5'
the seal of his Court, "if it appears by a petition, veriﬁed as hereinafter provided, tgrr';',?:d bymgisnict
of the person applying for the same, that the testator or intestate, as the case may Judge. be, at the time of his decease, had a ﬁxed place of abode, or any property,

movable, or immovable within the jurisdiction of the Judge". A similar power is conferred on the High Court acting on the original side,
since "District Judge", as deﬁned in the Act, includes such a High Court. 38.9. It appears that section 270 would cover a case even where the Person not domici-
testator or intestate was a person not domiciled in Indz'a--say, a foreign national-- led in India-
who left property most of which was outside India, while leaving some movable
property in India. "Of course, section 270 is not concerned with the question dealt

with in section 4 and 5 ,--the law applicable regarding succession. The section is

is".=;tton 2 (bb): C

Section 270-
Assets in India. Origin. English cases. Section 271. Section 272-----Pro- bate and letters of
administration may
be granted by
delegate. concerned only with the jurisdiction of lndian courts. it would appear----though
there is no case law on this poii1t----that, in so far as a n0n--domiciled person
has left property in India, the section would apply. The law applicable will, of
course, be governed by sections 4- -5. . For the present, and, in the

absence of case law raising any concrete questions.
we have no further comments 0

n this point. 38.10. The foundation of the jurisdiction of a Court to grant probate or
letters of administration is that there is property of the deceased to be administered
with the country and section 270 does not, in any way, provide an alternative
basis for a grant'. Thus, the section cannot be understood as dispensing w

ith the necessity
of existence of Indian assets before probate, etc. can issue from

an Indian Court. 38.11. Section 270 has its origin in s
1857 (20 and 2] Vict. C. 77). ection 46 of the Court of Probate Act. 38.12. English decisions from the earliest time
assets as a condition precedent to an English grant. F
well held!»- have insisted on English
or example Sir C. Cress- Sir J.P. Wilde observed in another case5 2

"It is not one of the functions of this Court to determine as an abstract
qustion who is the proper representative of a deceased person. The
foundation of the jurisdiction of this Court is, that there is personal pro~
perty of the deceased to be distributed within its jurisdiction. In this case
the deceased has no property, within this country, and the Court has,
therefore, no jurisdiction". Other decisions to the same effect are 'In Goods of Pittock' where, administra-
tion was refused because the deceased left no personal pr_ope1'ty in England and----
In Goods of Coode' where it was held that a will disposing only of property
in a foreign country was not entitled to an English probate. It should, however, be
the existence of assets in In
one is enough. pointed out that what section 270 requires is not
dia in every case. Two criteria are given, of which 38.l3. This takes us to section 271, which reads-- The secti_on needs no change. 38.14. Section 272 reads.--- The amount of ten thousand rupees should now be increased to rupees
titty thousand in View of fall in the value of the rupee. We recommend
accordingly. 38.16. Section 274 reads as under :----~ Séction 274----Tran-
smission to High

".274 (1) Where probate or letters of administration has or have been C°""5 °l°°"lﬁCa'°
granted by a High Court or District Judge with the effect referred. to in $1-fSg','g'St:c','?0':fE§'_§'°'
the pioviso to section 273. the High Court or District Judge shall send
a certiﬁcate thereof to the following courts, namely:----
(it) when the grant has l'-Ccn l';l'.l(.lC by a High Court. to each of the
other Courts: II. The petition and immediate steps thereon. 38.17. Section 2 '75 reads---- 5"""°" 275- The section needs no change. 38.18. Section 276 reads-- Ihe section needs no change. 39.18. Section 277 reads-- perty, situate within the jurisdiction of the Judge; and, (i) when the application is to a District Delegate, that the deceased at
the time of his death had a ﬁxed place of abode within the jurisdiction
of ,such Delegate. (2) Where the application is to the District Judge and any portion of the
assets likey to come to the petitioner's hands is situate in another State,
the petition shall further state the amount of such assets in each State and
the District Judge within whose jurisdiction such assets are situate." The section needs no change. 38.21. Section 279 reads--~

"279. (1) Every person applying to any'ol' the courts ment_io_ned in the Semen 2-,9_pmi_
proviso to section 273 for probate of a will or letters of administration of cum; to bcentcfgd
an estate intended to have effect throughout India shall state in his peti-in application 1105361'
tion, in addition to the matters respectively required by section 276 and '°°"°"3'3 P'°""°'
section 278, that to the best of his belief no application has been made to
any other court for a probate of the same estate, intended to have such
effect as last aforesaid. '

01', where any such application has been made, the court to which it was
made, the person or persons by whom it was made and proceedings (if any)
had thereon. (2) The Court to which any such application is made under the proviso
to section 273 may, if it thinks ﬁt, reject the same." The section needs no change. 38.22. Section 280 provides that the petition for probate or letters of Section 280.'

administration shall in all cases be subscribed by the petitioner and his pleader,
if any, and shall be veriﬁed by the petitioner in the manner laid down in the
section. The section needs no change. 38.23. Section 281 reads--- Veriﬁcation p '
"281. Where the application is for probate, the petition shall also be veriﬁed his: Eating"! to E
by at least one of the witnesses to the will (when procurable) in the manner . or to the effect following, namely :- "282. If any petition or declaration which is hereby required to be veriﬁed
contains any averment which the person making the veriﬁcation knows or
believes to be false, such person shall be deemed to have committed an
offence under section 193 of the Indian Penal Code." The section needs no change. 38.25. Section 283 reads-- Section 283. Section 284-~ Form
of Caveat. 'Section 285. - Section 286. (Va) examine the petitioner in person. upon oath (b) require further evidence of the execution of the will or the
right of the petitioner to the letters of administration, as the case
may be; lc) issiue citations calling 'upon all persons claiming Jto have any
interest in the estate of the deceased to come and see the proceedings
before the grant of probate or letters of administration. (2) The citation shall be ﬁxed up in some conspicuous part of the court-
house, and also in the otiice of the Collector of the district an otherwise

« published or made known in such manner as the Judge or District Delegate
issuing the same may direct. (3) Where any portion of the assets has been stated by the petitioner to be
situate within the jurisdiction of a District Judge in another State, the
District Judge issuing the same shall cause a copy of the citation to be
sent to such other District Judge, who shall publish the same in the same
manner as ii' it were citation issued by himself, and shall certify such
publication to the District Judge who issued the citation." 38.26. The "interest" in the estate, mentioned in section 283(l)(c), is only

that interest which, by citation, a person called upon may claim to have in the
estate of the deceased. It is not the interest which the deceased did not own,
but which the claimant, coniing into the picture by citation, claims to be vested
iii himself .The title of the testator to the property which is the subject-matter
of disposition is entirely and necessarily outside the scope of probate proceedings;
that question will have to be settled separately. By citation, a party cannot be
allowed to convert a probate proceeding into a suit for resolving title. This is the
gist of a Madras jtitlgineim

The section needs no cliunge. 38.27. Section 284 i't'ii(is~-- he shall send copy tlicrcnt to the District Judge. (3) Immediately on a caveat being entered with the District Judge, a copy
thereof shall be given to the District Delegate, if any, within whose juris-
diction it is alleged the deceased had a ﬁxed place of abode at the time of
his death, and to any other Judge or District Delegate to whom it may
appear to the District Judge expedient to transmit the same. (4) The caveat shall be made as nearly as circumstances admit in the
form set forth in Schedule V". '

The section iiqc-;I.s no change. 38.28. Section 285 reads- The section needs no change. 38.29. Section 286 l'C1lLlS--~

".286. A District _Deleg_atc shall not grant probate or letters of administra-
tion in any case in which there is contention as to the grant, or in which

'In the -' .\'I"'05I'It1/IIIII. A.l-R- 1975 Mad. 130. overruling ./(rm Kimmr v. Rammmlmm, A.l.R.

197?. Mad. 2|? 2 (1972) l M.l...l. 4. it otherwise. appears to him that probate or letters of administration ought
not to be granted in his Court. E.'([)[(Iil(lll'()il~--3'COi1IL)l1l:0ll" means the appearance of any one in person, or
by his recognised agent, or by a pleader duly appointed to act on his
behalf, to oppose the proceeding." The section needs no change. 38,30. Section 287 reads€-- Scctign 2g7_

"287. In every case in which there is no contention, but it appears to the
District Delegate doubtful whether the probate or letters of administration
shguld or should not be granted, or when any question arises in relation
to the grant, or application for the grant, of any probate or letters_ of
administration, the District Delegate may, if he thinks proper, transmit a
statement of the matter in question to the District Judge, who may direct
the District Delegate to proceed in the matter of the application, according
to such instructions as to the Judge may seem necessary, or may forbid
any further proceeding by the District Delegate in relation to the matter of
such application, leaving the party applying for the grant in question to
make application to the Judge." T he section needs no change, having raised no problems,

JV. Disposal of Petition

38.31. Section 288 provides that in every case in which there is contention, Section 233,
or the District Delegate is of opinion that the probate. or letters of administration '
should be refused in his court, the petition, with any documents which may
have been ﬁled therewith, shall be returned to the person by whom the applica-
tion was made, in order that the same may be presented to the District Judge
unless the District Delegate thinks it necessary, for the purpose of justice, to
impound the same, which he is hereby authorised to do, and, in that case, the
same shall be sent by him to the District Judge. We have no comments on the section. V. Grant of Probate. 38.32. Section 289 provides that when it appears to the District Judge or section 239,
District Delegate that probate of a will should be granted, he shall grant the

same under the seal of his Court in the form set forth in Schedule VI.
The section needs no change, having created no problems. 38.33. According to section 290 when it appears to the District Judge or swam 2" other than a grant under section 241, is committed shall give a bond to
the District Judge with one or more surety or surities, engaging for the due
collection, getting in, _and administering the estate of the deceased, which
bond shall be in such form as the Judge may, by general or special order,

direct. (2) When the deceased was a Hindu, Muhammadan, Bhudhist, Sikh or
Jaina or an exempted person-- (a) the exception made by sub-section (1) in respect of a grant under
section 241 shall not operate; (b) the District Judge may demand a like bond from any person
to whom probate is granted". _ 222 _ Need for giving 38.35. As the section stands at present, there is no discretion given to
d'5°"°"°" l° °'""" the court to dispense with the taking of the bond. If sub-section (1) applies.
then the only matter in respect of which the court has a discretion is as regards
the amount of the bond. Now. cases do arise in practice where a bond might
become an idle forma1ity--for example, where the applicant for the grant of
letters of administration is the sole legatee or the sole heir. Under the present
section, even in the case of a sole legatee, the only matter in the direction of the
court is the amount of the bond.' But subject to the above discretion and apart
from cases speciﬁcally execluded by statute," the provision as to security in sub-
section (1) is mandatory. Rationale for taking 38.36. Security is required for guarding against possible malpractices by the

SGCUTW b°"d- grantee. If there is reasonable protection against a malpractice arising front
the special circumstances of the case, the taking on an administration bond is an
unnecessary formality. It may even cause hardship. For example, the conditions
imposed or the amount ﬁxed may make it impracticable for the applicant to
fumish the security demanded and consequently no letters of administration can
be taken out. In such circumstances the safety of the estate may be seriously
imperilled if letters of administration are not granted? 38.37. It may be noted that in England, while a bond is generally taken
from an administrator, the court has a discretion to dispense with sureties by
reason of special circumstances. For example, where all the debts had been paid
and the persons applying were entitled to the whole of the residue, sureties
were dispensed with.' Againf where the applicant had no means, surities were
dispensed with, to enable the applicant (widow of the deceased) to carry on the
business of the deceased. Englishlaw. Need of giving dis- 38.38. On u catclui et.ttsittct'atioi1, of the matter, it seems to us that the
°1'°"°" t°'h° °°'"" Court should be given a discretion to dispense with the taking of the administra-
tion bond or with the need for sureties in the following cases :-- Recommendation 38.40. In the light of the above disussion. we recommend that the following
3%, ""'°"'l '°°"°" sub-section should be added in section 291

"(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the Court may
dispense with the taking of a hand thereunder or with the need for sureties
to .S'l(C/7 (I hand W/'l('l'('---~

l,'\/Io/tan ll/lohfni. v. Tara M0/rim', A.l.R. 1920 Cal. 733, 734. '-'For example . the Administrators Gemerals Act, 1963. '

=*/tnn'r Chandra v. Mahrmnndbibi, 6 Cal. Law Joumal 453. 'In the goods' of Panron, (1901) Probate l88. -'Re C'0r_\', (1903) Probate 62. lion is to he made is fire sale Iegatee or the sole heir of the deceased, or

! b) where, jar )'¢'a.s0ns 10 be recorded, the Court in the cz'rcum.»Iamfes
of the case llnluks it proper to dispense with suclz /20nd or snreties,
Us the case mt.'y I,-2." 38.41. "this takes us to section 292, which provides that the court 1nay,secu'on 292. on application made by petition and on being satisﬁed that the engagement of
any such bond has not been kept, and upon such terms as to security, or provid~
ing lhatthe money received be paid into Court, or otherwise, as the Court
may think lit, assign the same to some person, his executors or administrators.
who shall thereupon be entitled to sue on the said bond in his or their own
name or names as if the same had been originally given to him or them instead
of to the Judge of the Court, and shall be entitled to recover thereon, as trustees
for all persons interested, the full amount recoverable in respect of any branch
thereof. The section needs no change. having created no diﬁiculties. 38.42. Section 293 provides that no probate of a will shall be granted ~'S-cclion 293.
until after the expiration of seven clear days, and no letters of administration
shall be granted until after the expiration of fourteen clear (lays. from the day
of the testator or intcstate's death. This section also needs no change. 38.43. Section 294 provides that every District Delegate shall tile and Section 194«

preserve all original wills, of which probate or letters of administration with
the will annexed may be granted: by him, among the records of his Court, until
some public registry for will is established. It further provides that the State
Government shall make regulations for the preservation and inspection
of the wills so ﬁled. . T he section needs no change of substance. However, the regulation to be R¢°001m¢ndﬁli0n-
made by the State Government should be published in the official Gazette and
we recommend that a sub-section to that effect be added in section 294. 38.44. This takes us to section 295, It lays down that in any case before Section 295'

the District Judge in which tl1€Te is contention, the proceedings shall take, as
nearly as may be. the form of a regular suit, according to the provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure , l908, in which the petitioner for probate or letters of
administration, as the case may he, shall be the plaintiff. and the person who
has appeared to oppose the grant shall be the defendant. The section needs no change. 38.45. Section 296 reads-- 5°°""" 296- This section also needs no change. 38.46. Section 297 provides :-- 55,_.m,,1 397_

"297. When a grant of probate or letters of administration is revoked, all
payments bona ﬁde made to any executor or administrator' under such
grant before the revocation thereof shall, notwithstanding such revocation.
be a legal discharge to the person making the same; and the executor or
administrator who has acted under any such revoked grant may retain
and reimburse himself in respect of any payments made by him which the

Section 298. Section 299. I011
f'""".m;.» -'°?J£.9"'
of Hishmcourt. Section 301 Suspen- sion and removal
of private cxecutor_

Section 302--Dir- action to executor
or administrator. person to whom probate or letters of administration may afterwards be

granted might have lawfully made. The section needs no change. VI. Miscellaneous

_38.47. According to section 298, notwithstinding anything hereinbefore
contained, it shall, where the deceased was a Muhammadan, Buddhist, or exempt-
ed person, or a Hindu, Sikh or Jaina to whom section 57 does not apply, be in
the discretion of the court to make an order refusing, for reasons to be recorded
by_ it in writing, to grant any application _for letters of administration made under
this Act. The section needs no change. 38.48. Section 299 provides that every order made by a District Judge by
virtue of the powers hereby conferred upon him shall be subject to appeal to the
High Court in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure ,
1908, applicable to appeals. Since/_ every order is appealable, no revision is
maintainable.'

The section needs no change. 38.49.Section 300 reads : rised it so to do." The section needs no change, having raised no problems. 38.50. Section 301 reads : The section needs no change. .9

38.5l. Section 302 reads '

"302. Where probate or letters of administration in respect of any estate
has or have been granted under this Act, the High Court may, on applica-
tion made to it, give to the executor or administrator any general or special
directions in regard to the estate or in regard to the administration thereof." The section needs no change. CHAPTER 39

EXECUTORS OF THEIR OWN WRONG
(SECTIONS 303 AND 304)

39.1. The special topic of "executors of their wrong" is dealt with in a
separate Chapter--sections 303 and 304. Of these two sections, one defines the
concept, and the other deals with the liability, of such an executor. W1I'.}a§i}7Z£I1vfivizikzinder Kmnal:/~A.I.R. 1973 Raj 233. '

.412»

39.2. Section 303 provides that a person who interineddles with the estate §~"-W0" f3U3}','
of the deceased, or does any Other act which belongs to the otiice of executor. n5:']°V°V'::)'§g.._° "5
while the_re is no rightful executor or administrator in existence. thereby makes
himself an executor of his own wrong. There are, however, two exceptions to this general provision: illustration ti) L'.\pl'c1lllS the scope of the inain as follows 2-- However, if there is no notice of death. there is no intcrmeddling: Thus, in
illustration (ii), A, having been appointed agent by the deceased in his lifetime
to collect his debts and sell his goods, continues to do so after he has become
aware of his death. He is an E'}'.CCLll0l' of his own wrong in respect of acts done
after he has become aware of the death of the deceased. The section does not seem to need any change

'1 V _ , - l . . . , . _ Section 304-- 39.3. Under section 304. when a pv;!.5Ull ii.»-, st; :ic.t-U in nt-come an Ljabi|_jtyofexecuto1-
executor of his own wrong, he is answerable to the rightful executor or adminis-- of his own wrong.
trator, or to any creditor or lcgatee of the deceased, to the extent of the assets
which may have come to his hands after deducting payments made to the rightful

executor or administrator, and payments made in due course of ,administra_tion. The section needs no change. CHAPTl:ll{ 40
POWERS OF AN EXECUTOR OR ADMINISTRATOR
(SECTIONS 305 TO 315)

I . Preliminary. 40.1. Sections 305 to 315 deal with powers of an executor or administrator. 59099-

Although contained in an enactment dealing with succession, some of the
sections in this chapter (particularly, section 306 which deal with the survival
of causes of action) have a much wider interest, and really the 'draftsman, in
dealing with this topic, has tntereti the realm of torts. It is well-known that the
topic Of survival of causes of action has, during the last four or five decades,
been the subject inatter of much legal learning, and of certain legislative develop-
ments in other countries: These legislative developments remedy, to some extent,
certain anomalies arising from the earlier common law rule. In India, however,
the section. not having been subjected to systematic review in the past, still
suffers from a serious drawback. Accordingly, it will be necessary to suggest
suitable reforms in this regard. when dealing with the section

40.2. The general principle underlying the provisions in sections 305----315 General principle.
is that the executor or administrator represents the deceased---~ihough, until he
obtains probate or letters of administration, no right can be est:,~:~!Eshed in a court
of justice. This principle is worked out in relation to several matters dealt with
in this Chapter, such as :--------- (a) the. survival of causes of action : sections 305----036. 'Sectioii_2l2l and section 0213 (1). 2.2 D (b) disposal of property and general powers of the executor or administra-
tor--sections 307-325. The executor or administrator cannot make a profit out of the office.
Accordingly, sections 309----310 impose certain restrictions based on that prin~
ciple. The rest of the sections (31 l----3l5) deal with matters of detail. ll. Survival of Causes of Action. Section 305---- 40.3. According to section 305, an executor or administrator has the same

In respect of causes _ _ _ _
o£ action surviving power to sue in respect of all causes of action that survive the deceased, and may

d°°°'5°d and d°b'S exercise the same power for the recovery of debts as the deceased had, when
due at death. living. The section needs no change. Section 306. 40.4. Section 306 reads as under :-- The section relates to an important topic whose interest transcends the
mere limits of "powers of an executor or Admimistijator". A number of aspects
will require examination. P°S'"°" 3" K°""* 40.5. It should be noted at the outset that in Kerala.' a State Act contains
provisions, inter alia, relating to the survival of causes of action and expressly
repeals section 306 by providing that that section, so far as it relates to the
right of action in torts, shall cease to apply in the State of Kerala. The Act secins to re-enact an earlier Travancore Act" on the subject. W583" °"h¢W1Xim 40.6. Consideration of section 306 of the Central Act may begin with the
maxim------personal action dies with the person. Although somewhat obscure in
its origin, the principle that a personal cause of action dies with the person.
seems to have been linked with the criminal ﬂavour of early tort remedies'

The maximum was originally introduced to prevent actions of a penal
character, like trespass and its offshoots, from being brought after the death of the
wrongdoer against his representatives.'--' The main reason was that the trespass was
"drowned in the felony". Later, however, the maxim was applied to cases of
death of the injured person, even though the reason' underlying the maximum
had no application.7

'Ke3rai§1 Torts (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1976 (8 of 1977), /1977) K.L.T. Journal pages
7- 9. 9Travancore Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (I 2 of 1124). Virtually all States in the U.S.A. allow survival of actions for damage to
property. In slightly more than half the States, actions for such torts as defama-
tion survive? Recommendation . 40.1l.So much as regards the legislative developments elsewhere. We now
c';'pﬁ"1o°1:°'t?or";°ssa':l'j't proceed_ to consider the need for reform in the Indian law. ln the ﬁirst place,
and pmomj gm-u_we consider the exception in section 306 for assault and other personal injuries
ries not causing to be totally unsound in principle. It is an archaic survival of the rule' that a
death. personal action dies with the person. The rule itself was unsound,' being a
product more of historical accident than of any deliberate view of polio . Apart
from this. justice requires that such causes of action should survive. Tbllie mere
accident of the death of a person ought not to affect the survival of the cause
of action, whether the person dying is the wronged person or the wrongdoer.
In general, tortious liability arises because of certain harm caused by the tort.
A subsequent event ought not to affect a liability that has already accrued because

of harm already caused. We, therefore, recommend deletion of the words "assault . . . . .. or other
personal injuries not causing the death of the party" from_ section 306. in 0? 40.12. In case, however, our recommendation' to delete from section 306
the exception regarding personal. injury is not accepted, we would like to point
out the need for a clariﬁcation in the light of certain problems raised by the
case law on the subject,' which we proceed to deal with. the _ _n
"personal injury". Co It f . p . ' ' h 
,,,e",;°, ',',,,,.,-§§f,",,",'. 40.13. Case law on section 306 shows that the expression 'personal

prosecution. injuries" in the section has proved to be unfortunate and controversial. For
example, the question whether the expression includes malicious prosecution,
has been the subject of a conflict of decisions. The majority view on the subject
would include malicious prosecution within this expression, the reasoning being
that the word 'personal' in this section must mean all personal injuries in the com-
monly accepted use of the word 'personal', and cannot be restricted merely to
physical injuries to! the person. Hence a suit for malicious prosecution does
not, according to the majority view, survive after death. This view has been
taken by the Allahabad,' Bombay,' Madhya Pra'desh,° Madras," and Patna" High
Courts, which hold that a suit for malicious prosecution is a suit for 'personal
injury' within the meaning of section 306. 'Tax. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann. (l955<> »\{:t. 5525. Survival of Causes of Action. Reproduced in
Shapiro. Tort and Compensation l.aw ([976), page 478. '-'((1) Gregory &Kalven, Cases and Materials on Torts (1969). page 522.
([7) Note in (1953) 48 Harvard Law Review ll08. 'Para 40.10. supra. 'Para 40.5, supra. 'Para 40. ll, supra. 'Para 40.13, et seq.. infm. 7/llelitab Sing/z V. Hal) La], A.l.R. 1926 All. 610, 612. 'Motilal v. Harnaravan, I.L.R. 47 Born 716; A.I.R. 1923 Born. 406.
'RaIanIal \'. Baboolal, A.l.R. l96O M.P. 200. '°.Murugappn \'.'Pom¢sami', A.I.R. 1921 Mad. 405. Relying on earlier cases, it has been held' in Madras that the maximum
'action personalis moritur cum persona' is a part of the law of this country,
except in so far as it has been modiﬁed by statute, and that in a suit for mali-
cious arrest, if a defendant dies, the right to sue does not survives" 40.16. We are also of the view, that, on principle, causes of action for Survival of among
defamation should survive after death. Whatever be the thinking on the subject for defamation.
in the West at the time when the Act of 1865 (the predecessor of the Succession
Act of 1925) was enacted, Indian social notions would rather favour an approach
permitting survival of such causes of action. Reputation, in the eye of the
Indian Society, is certainly as precious as property. It may sound odd to quote
literary sources in a legal discussion, but the subject--matter is such that it
would be proper to draw support from the thinking of great writers. Shakespeare,
in Othello," has thus described the value of reputation, in contrast with money : 7People's Bank ofNorrhern India v, Dex Raj, A.l.R. 1935 Lab. 705.
'See para 40. ll, S[l[)I'(]. 'Para 40.22. infra and paragraph 40. ll, supra. - '°Cf. Section 3, Law Reform (Personal Injuries) Act. 1948 (Eng). lnganother play,' Shakespeare has compared reputation to the "purest
treasure" :-- 40.17. By many, reputation is ragarided as even more precious than life.
Indian literature has beautiful sayings on the subject." We may mention that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights3 also
recognises the increasing importance of reputation. It provides :-- Move fm. re,-"mm 40.18. It may be mentioned that the principle that the cause of action for
England as to de- defamation should survive has been approved by the Committee recently appoint-
f3D3m°"- ed in England to report on the law of defamation.'

View of academic 40.19. Editors of several leading books on torts have criticised the

"""°"5- exclusion of defan_1_ation from the category of causes of action that survive. ILLUSTRATION

:;= :3: ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTION

If the words "excluding "personal injuries" are not deleted, then the amend-
ment' proposed to deﬁne the expression "personal injury" should be carried out,
and "representative" should also be added." The amendment should" deﬁne
'personal injury' as (i) including any disease and any impairment of a person's
physical_or mental condition.' and (ii) Cxcluding injury caused by malicious
prosecution. _ 1: administrator has power to dispose of the property of the deceased, vested in or administrator to

him under section 211. either wholly or in part, in such manner as he may d'5P°'° °f P'°P"'Y-
think ﬁt. ' _

ILLUSTRATION (i) The deceased has made a speciﬁc bequest of part of his property. The
executor, not having assented to the bequest, sells the subject of it. The sale is

valid. (ii) The executor in his discretion mortgages at part of the immovable
estate of the deceased. The mortgage is valid. (2) , If the deceased was a Hindu, Muhammadan, Buddhist, Sikh or Jain
or an exempted person, the general power conferred by sub-section_ (i)
shall he subject to the following restrictions and conditions, namely :-- wise any immovable property for the time being vested in him
under section 211. or
1Paia 4ts.i11;,;,,;.;. '
"Para 40.15, supra. 40.24. Various questions of detail have arisen under this section as to
powers of the executor, such as the power to refer to arbitration the question
of genuineness of the will, power to determine questions arising in administration
when such a discretion is given to the executor by the will, power to employ
agents and servants, power in regard to the performance of contracts, carrying
on of businss, personal liability of the executor, unsecured loans and proper
expenses for improvement of the property. The determination of such questions,
however, depends on the facts of each case, and there is no need to amplify the
section on this score. Question of detail. Section 308--power 40.25. This takes us to section 308 : sagging 309. 40.26.-- Section 309 provides that an executor or administrator shall not
K°°°m3!9nd8ti°"- be entitled to receive or retain pny commission or agency charges at a higher
rate than that for the time being ﬁxed in respect of the Administrator-General
by or under the Adrninistrator-General's Act, 1913 . This should not be read

as referring' to the Administrator--General's,Act, 1963. v
Background or' 40.27. The lagal background in which this section was considered
3°°¢i0n 309- necessary may be brieﬂy explained. Ordinarily, at common law, a legal represen- tative is not entitled to any allowance for this time and trouble spent by 

He is entitled only to out of pocket expenses." In the absence of a special clause
in the will authorising a charge for professional services, even a Solicitor-Execu-
tor or a Solicitor----Administrator is not allowed such remuneration.' It has, there-
fore, become a practice to insert in the will a clause authorising the Solicitor-
Executor to charge and be paid the usual professional charges for the business
done by him or his ﬁrm in relation to the execution of trusts, whether in the
ordinary course of his profession or business or not, and although of a nature
requiring the employment of a solicitor or other professional person, Even where
such a clause is inserted, it is regarded itself as a legacy, and not as a debt'
due from the estate to the executor. 'Section 45 of the 1963 Act. 5/11 the case ofAks/my Kzmzar Chose, A.l.R.' 1949 Cal. 462. 40.28. This is the legal background of the sectionand the full scope of §'!:¢<gt:1i°¢::§53a'S0
the section cannot be understood 'unless that background 1S keptpm mind, How- need for Chan" in
ever, there seems to be a certain amount of incompleteness in form, 'which Subsgancg. arises from the fact that the section, does not tell is clearly whether such -commission or agency can be claimed only if the will allows it, or whether it

can be claimed unless the will prohibits it. The letter may be a more practical
approach and we think that there should be a speciﬁc provision on the subject. 40.29. Then, there is need for change in the substance of the section, Chargesinexcessof
arising from the fact that it is not clear whether a provision in the will allowing 2'35? "."t°"'°d ""4"
charges in excess of those allowed under the Administrator--General's Act } would Ge',:';?;s,5Sm?{,;.
be valid. Of course, it would be reasonable to take the view that it is valid, but

the statement of the position could be made explicit in this regard also. 40.30. In this context, in particular, the case where a bank is appointed as Bank as ex.-sum-
an executor requires to be considered. Where the will itself provides for the position of.
payment of charges, the bank may be entitled to the ordinary charges for the

_work which is done in administering the estate? However, it is possible that a

bank may refuse to accept executorship if its charges, which may, be more than
those permitted under the Administrator-General's Act , are not paid. In qrder
to "meet such cases, the court should be given a power to relax the rule con-
tained in section 309. 40.31. On a consideration of all aspects of the matter, it seems to us that R¢comm¢n¢a¢§(_n
section 309" should be modiﬁed on the following lines : $69 amend section
( I ) Whether or not the will provides for the payment of remuneration, so
long as the will does not prohibit such payment, an executor or
administrator shall be entitled to receive or retain reasonable com-
mission or agency charges. '

(2) Unless the will otherwise provides or the court otherwise permits,
those charges shall not 'be at a higher rate than that for the time being
ﬁxed in respect of the Administrator General by or under the Adminis-
trator Gcnera1's Act, 1963.' '

As already stated above} the proposed relaxing power of the Court would
be particularly useful where a bank is appointed an executor,

The following is a suggested draft. Revised section 309. 40.32. Section 310 provides that if any executor or administrator purchases, section 31o__
either directly or indirectly, and part of the property of the deceased, the will is Recommendation.
voidable at the instance of any other person interested in the property sold,

This section is based on the rule that a legal representative shall not derive any
pecuniary beneﬁt from his office." With reference to this section, it is desirabld
to introduce an exception for the case where the purchase is done with the sanc-
tion of the court. At present, the section does not admit of any such exception,

'Now see section 45 , the Administrator-Generalis Act. 1963.
'G(imbeII, in the estate 0/(I934) All E.R. 443. 3Para 40. 28, supra. 'Paras 40.28 and 40. 29. sttpra. 5I'ara 40. 30. supra. °Paruck. Indian Succession Act (1977). Page 733. Recommendation . Section3 12 . Section 313. Section 3 l 4. Section 31 5- -~-- Powers of married 234 but the reasonableiics of such am exceptioii is obvious, We recommend that the
section should be so amended, ' " '

'40.33. Section 311 provides that where there are several executors or
administrators, the powers of all may, in the absence of any direction to the
°0mf31'}', b6 eXerC1S€d by any one of them who has proved the will or taken out
administration. '

There are six illustrations to the section. The gist of the lirst live may be
represented by stating that one of several executors has power to realise a
debt due to the deceased, surrender a lease, sell the property of the deceased
(whether movable or immovable), assent to a legacy and endorse a promis-
sory note payable to the deceased. But the powers of one of them may be
restricted if the testator so directs---a situation illustrated in illustration (vi).'

In th illustration, the will appoints A, B, C, and D to be executors, and
directs that two of them shall be a quorum. No act can then be done by "a
single executor. 40.33. A matter of detail may now be dealt with. The section speaks of
:1 "direction to the contrary", but does not specify where the direction is to be
contained. The view expressed by one commentator' is that the restriction contem-
plated in the section must be either in the will or in the grant. It appears to
be desirable to codify this position, and we, therefore, recommend that in section

311, after the words "either in the will or in the probate" should be inserted.'

40.34. This takes us to section 312, which lays down that upon the death
of one or more of several executors or administrators, in the absence of any
direction to the contrary in the will or grant of letters of administration, all the
powers of the oﬁice become vested in the surviors or survivor. The section does not appear to need any change. 40.35. Section 313 provides that the administrator of effects unadminister- ed has, with respect to such effects. 'the same powers as the original executor or
administrator. This section also needs no change. 40.36. Section 314 provides that an administrator during minority has all
the powers of an ordinary administrator. No changes are needed in the section. 40.37. Section 315 provides that when a grant of probate or letters of
administration has been made to a married woman, she has all the powers of

executrix or admi- an ordinary executor or administrator. nistratrix. Scope. This section also needs no change. CHAPTER 4]

DUTIES OF AN EXECUTOR OR ADMINISTRATOR
SECTIONS 316 T0 331 1. Introductory. 41.1. The duties of an executor or administrator are governed by sections
316 to 331, which need no introductory comment. i§;;;.'..; Kumar v. Illeimr Chandra , AIR 1961 C31. 411,413. 41.4. The object of the provision regarding the exhibition of accounts, etc. Qbiect of the sec-
under section 317 seems to be to ensure that the accounts, etc. are available "°"'

for inspection by the parties interested in the administration of the estate.'

There is, however, no obligation to maintain accounts." 41.5. The origin of section 317 has been thus described"--~ History of the Set- According to the practice of the Prerogative Court, an executor was bound
to ﬁle an inventory before grant of probate.'--'

41.6. The provisions of section 317 are mandatory so that a provision in season mandatory',
the will that the executor shall not be bound to render accounts is of no avail.'

'See C/Ilteda Lu! v. Dulan', A.l.R. 1930 Oudh. 425, 426 (Srivastava J.).
3R.K. Ax/tere v. To/1zptor1Jc/zarzgir, AIR I961 Guj. 137. M0.
3Basu, Sucession Act. (1957). page 912). 'Williams on Executors, llth Edn. page 733. lndian Penal Code. if the requirement of suh--section (3) of section 3l 7 is fulﬁlled: 41.8. A connected provision in the Act is section 29 ]. under which an
administration bond is required to be ﬁled by every person to whom letters of
administration are granted. It may, however. he noted that the Administrator-
General is exempt from this requirement." Provisipns in 41.9. The relevant provisions in the Adininistratoi'--General's Act, 1963' may
Adn3InI§trat0I'- now be considered. Under section 5 of that Act. the Administrator-General is a
G°"*""l 5 A" corporation sole, having perpetual succession. Under section 6 , the High Court

is deemed to be the Court of competent jurisdiction as regards the grant of
probate or letters of administration to the Administrator-General under any law
for the time being in force. Under section 26 , no administration bond or other
security is required from the Administrator-General. Under section 43, the
accounts of the Administrator--Gencral shall be audited by the prescribed person
and in the prescribed manner. Under section 49, interested persons are entitled to inspect the accounts of
the Administrator-Geiieral. Section 53 provides that nothing contained in the Indian Succession Act . 1925. aﬂects the rights, duties and privileges of any
administrator-General. Under section 62, the State Government may make
rules for carrying into effect the purpose of the Act and for regulating the
proceedings of the Administrator--General. - 41.10. The corresponding provision in England (relevant portion of section
correspondin pro- . . . - . vision in Englgand 25.. Administration of Estates Act . is quoted below)~-- 41.13, It may be stated that in England, the otlicer corresponding to the Position in England
Administrator-General is the Public Trustee, governed by the Public Trustee '°8""'d"'3 Publlc
Act, 1926. For our purpose, it is suﬁicient to refer to the relevant portion of me' section 11 of the Act quoted below' 1- 4l.14.'Alt.hough there is considerable case law on the section. yet it is Case 1-3"-
unnecessary to discuss it in detail' for the present purpose. 41.15. However, we must deal with a suggestion made by a State Govern- state Government
ment' for the amendment of the law. The suggestion is to amend section 317(1) 10 aménd 5- 317.
so as to provide that when letters of administration are granted to the Administra-
tor-General, it shall not be necessary for him to ﬁle" the inventory and accounts
required to be ﬁled by that section. 41.16. In our view, the suggested amendment has considerable merit, there Merits Of Suggested

being good reasons for exempting the Administrator-General from the operation """°"dm°"'*

of section 317. In the ﬁrst place, he is already exempt from the major obligation

to execute an administration bond] and it is logical that he should be exempted

from section 317 also. In the second place, his accounts are audited regularly" tion to the section : able estate of the deceased unless he brings such payment into account for
the beneﬁt of the other creditors. (3) This section shall not apply where the deceased was a Hindu. .\/Iuham4
mz.-dan. Budhist. Sikh or Jain or an exempted person." The illustration is as follows :-- whose utility seems rather diﬂicult to appreciate. The sub--section assumes Ilia: by 5°C"°" (27-
virtue' of sub-secti0n ( l ). the creditor has received some kind of special rig/its. This assumption is not, however. correct when one has regard to present sub-
section (I ). The situation seems to have arisen by reason of certain accidents
of drafting. This point will be best understood if the history of the section is
examined, Sub-section (l) of section 324 corresponds to section 283 of the '
Act of 1865 (10 of I865). Sub-section (2) corresponds to section 284 of that
Act. Before 1889. section 283 lie. the predecessor of present sub-section (l)
was diﬂerent from the present rule. In substance. it applied the law of the
country of riomicile. At that time, therefore, the provision contained in section
284 (which was the predecessor of sub-section (2)] made sense. in l889 (by
Act 6 of l889). section 283 was amended so as to read (in substance) as
section 324 (I) now reads. In section '283 of the Succession Act (10 of 1865). (as originally enacted).
the words "the country in which he was domiciled" were used. Subsequently.
by Act 6 of 1889, the words "British India" were substituted for the words
"the country in which he was domiciled" and the illustration originally attached
to section 283 was repealed. This was really a change of suhstztnce. and not a
mere verbal amendment. At the time of the amendment of 1889.3 however. section 284 was
(apparently by slip) not amended. The un-amended section was carried forward
in present section 324 (2). 41.20. it may be mentioned that section 283 (as originally enacted in Original rule of

1865) followed the English law as regards the priority of debts. as it then En8liShlaW-
obtained in England." The vexed question was, what rule was to govern in the
administration of assets----the law of the domicile or the law of the situs'? Sir J.
Rotnilly, in Wilson V. Ltidy Dunsagy,' held that the personal estate of the tcstator
must be administered on the principle of the law of his dtmihﬁle. In Cooke V,
Gregson," it was decided that an lrish iudgment---4:reditor of it testator doimz-[let]
in Ireland was entitled in England to priority, according to Irish law, in respect
of assets which had been brought from Ireland to Enland'. But the observations
of Kindersley V.C., in that case. although not necessary. appeared to put the
question as though it were rather dependent on the .w'm.r of .'/It' tI.S'\'('/\"'[l1all on
the domicile of the deceased. 41.27. Section 283. as it found place in the Indian Succession Act , followed Subscquenz d¢yc-
the English law as then understood. Subsequently, in 1885, in England, it was iopmems in Eng.
laid' down' that if a man domiciled in England dies possessing assets in France, lish law.
the French assets must be collected in France and distributed according to
the law of France, but that, in the administration of assets in England, a creditor
(of whatever nationality) is entitled to be paid equally with English creditors
in the same class. In 1889. the Indian legislature by Act 6 of the 1889 (following
the English law as laid down in I885) amended section 283, by replacing the
words 'the country in whicli he was domiciled," by the words 'British India'.
it is now well established that administration?-'" is not governed by the law
which governs succession (last tlomicile)--~but by the law the country where
administration takes place. 4 L28. The following illustration appended to the original section 283 corres~
ponding to present sub--section (1') was also repealed in l889 : Anomaly how aris- 41.28, But, as stated alreadyf unfortunately section 284 [Le present section

ing. 324] was retained without any amendment at the time when sub-section (1)
was amended in 1889. The words "no creditor who has received payment of a
part of his debt by virtue of the last preceding section, etc." were retained, even
though they were no longer appropriate after the amendment of sub-section (1).
This is how the present anomaly has arisen. Need for amcnd- 41.29. It is necessary that this anomaly should be rectiiied. Sub--scction (2)
93232;" 3'f48a"l 'O has now become not only redundant, but also confusing. i1°°°f"m°*5d3;lc"c';ion 41.30, For these reasons, we recommend that section 324 (2). and the
3%4'am°" illustration to the section, should be deleted. If the provisions of the Act relating to domicile are extended to Hindus etc.
as recommended by us separately" sub--section (3) of section 324 will also have
to be deleted. Section 3 ,2S--de.bts 4} .3 l. This disposes of section 324. Section 325 provides that debts of every
to b_e Paid before description must be paid before any legacy. It seems to be based on the principle
l°83°|¢5- that a man must be just before he is generous. It needs no change. V. Legacies. 5.°°'l°" .32."f.'°°"' 4|.3L'. According to section 326, if the estate of the deceased is subject to

t"'g°"' l""b'l'"°5' any contingent liabilities. an executor or administration is not bound to pay any
legacy without it suﬁicient indemnity -to meet the liabilities whenever they may
become due. lhc section needs no change. Section 327---» 41.33. Section 327 provides that if the assets, after payment of debts,
gll"";;'=g:"c°i:: °f 35"' necessary expenses and speciﬁc legacies, are 'not sufficient to pay all the general
' legacies in full, the latter shall abate or be Cl1l'ILll1.lSl'l€(l in equal proportions_ and.
in the absence of any direction to the contrary in the will, the executor has no
right to pay one legatce in preference to another, or to retain any money on
account of a legacy to himself or to any person for whom he is it trustee.
The section needs no change. Samoa 328__.NO 41.34. Section 328 provides that where there is speciﬁc legacy, and the
abatement of speci- assets are sufficient for the payment of debts and necessary expenses, the thing
ﬁ°l<'«83Ci°5« speciﬁed must be delivered to the legatee without any abatement.
' This section also needs no change. Sectiop1329----Pret'e- 4l.35. Section 329 provides as under 2-
1' ' in r's- - . . _
;:?:tla0fc(;:!t:0nStl:a- "329. Where there is a demonstrative legacy and the assets are sulﬁctent
tive legacy. for the payment of debts and necessary expenses. the legatec has a preferen- tial claim for payment of his legacy out of the fund from which the legacy
is directed to be paid until such fund is exhausted and if. after the fund
is exhausted. part of the legacy still remains unpaid, he is entitled to rank

'Emphasis is added. The illustration to the section should he lcvised, so as to express the
amounts in decimal coinage. We recmnmentl accordingl}. 41.37. Section 331 provides that for the purpose of :tlJ'.ttetttct'.l. a iegacyscction 331.-A
for life. a sum appropriate by the will to produce an annuity. and the value ol |¢gaC>'l'0rlI'fe-
an annuity when no sum has been appropriated to produce it. shall he treated
as general legacies. The section needs no change. CHAPTER 42
Assuwr TO A LEGACY BY EXECUTOR on ADMINISTRATOR
' (SECTIONS 332 to 337; 42.1. Sections 332 to 337 lay down the law relating to assent to a legacy of Scheme of the sec-
tions. an executor or administrator. The general principle is that assent of the executor or administrator is
necessary to complete the title of a legatee to his legacy: section 332. This. in
fact, could be derived from the broader principle that it is the executor or
administrator who represents the deceased.' and in whom 'the title vests until
steps are taken to "divest his interest."-' Once the assent is given. it takes etfect
from the death of the tcstator; section 336, Payment or tlzrlivcry oi' the legacy.
however, by the executor is not obligatory. until one year expires after death : 43.2. Section 332' reads :-- tor or administrator." '

'Sec sections 305-315. and discussion relating thereto. -'Con1pare section 333 (l t. and section 21 1 . 42.3. it has been held by Bombay High Court' that even where it was
expressly directed in the will that the legatee may take possession of his legacy
without the assent of the executor, yet. if he does take p0.s'sessi'nz, the executor may
maintain an action for trespass. The Calcutta High Court has held' that the legatee has a vested right to
the legacy even though the assent of executor is not given. with the result that
any alienation by the legatee before assent by the executor is not void, but
merely inchoatc until assent is given. It was explained that the section is meant to
protect the executor. so that he may have money available for the payment of
debts. These rulings sh()w that there is some obscurity as to the vesting of title,
pending assent. It appears to us that such an important matter as the vesting of title should
not be left in doubt. The position should be improved by a suitable clariﬁcation.
to the effect that nothing in this section shall be deemed to invalidate a transfer
of the property (which is the subject-matter of the legacy) by the legatee before
assent by the executor or administrator. but every such transfer shall be regarded
as conditional on the assent of the executor or the administrator, as the case
may be. We recommend that section 332 should be amended by inserting an
Explanation on the above lines. 42.4. Section 333 reads------ ILLUSTRATI ONS

(it A horse is bequeathed. The executor requests the legatee to dispose of
it, or a third party proposes to purchase the horse from the executor, and
he directs him to apply to the legatee. Assent to the legacy is implied. (ii) The interest of a fund is directed by the will to be applied for the
maintenance of the legatee during his minority. The executor commences
so to apply it. This is an assent to the whole of the bequest. (iii) A bequest is made of a fund to A and after him to B. The executor
pays the interest of the fund to A. This is an implied assent to the bequest
to B. (iv) Executors die after paying: all the debts of the testator. but before
satisfaction of speciﬁc legacies. Assent to the legacies may be presumed. (v) A person to whom a specific article has been bequeathed takes posses-
sion of it and retains it without any objection on the part of the executor.
His assent may be presumed." The section has created no problems and needs no change. 'Harm:/i \. Pupallal, (1912) I4 Bom. L.R. 732; l.L.R. 37 Bom. 2ll. The section needs no change. 42.6. Section 335 reads :-- Section 335-'

' Assent of executor
"335, (I) When the executor or administrator is a legtttce. his assent to to ms ow" leg"-V'
his t)\\Il legacy is necessary to complete his title to it, in the same way as
it is required when the bequest is to another person. and his assent may.
in like manner. he expressed or implied. (2) Assent shall be implied it' in his manner of adniinistering the property
he does any act which is referable to his character of legatec and is not
referable to his character of executor or administrator. ILLUSTRATION

"An executor takes the rent of a house or the interest of Government
securities bequeathed to him, and applies it to his own use. This is assent." The section needs no change. 42.7. Section 336 rtms as follows 2% Section 33b----
' Effect of execut0r's

"336. The assent of the executor or administrator to a legacy gives effect "sS°"" This section also needs no change. 42.8. Section 337 reads as under :--r-- Section 337-- This section also needs no change.- Scope. Section 33S--~(;om- menoement of _an- nuity when no time
tixed by will. Section 339----L,om- mencement of pc- riodical annuity. Section 340~------ Dates of successi\e
payments when ﬁrst
payment directed to
be made within a
given time or on a
day certain; death
of annuitant before
date of payment. Scope. Section 341 . Section 342~--ln-- vestment of general
legacy to be paid
at future time. .344

CHAPTER 43
PAYMENT AND APPORTIONMENT OF ANNUITIES
(SECTIONS 338 TO 340)

43.1. Payment and apportionment of annuities is dealt with in sections 338
to 340. The provisions deal with matters of detail. and need no introductory
continents. 43.3. Section 338 reads : The section needs no change. 43.3. Section 33') reads : The section needs no change. -$3.4. Section 340 reads :-----A

"34(l (I ). Where there is a direction that first payment oi' an annuity shall
be made within one month or any other division of time from the death of
the tcstator, or on a day certain, the successive payments are to be made
on the anniversary of the earliest day on which the will authorised the first
payment to he made. (2) ll' the annuitant dies in the interval between the times'ot' payment, an
apportioned share of the annuity shall he paid to his representative," 44.1. Investment of funds to provide for legacies is regulated by sections
341 to 348. The sections deal with investment of various classes of legacies.
management of annuities and contingent bequests and bequests of residue for
life, time and manner of conversion and investment. and certain special situations
such as that of a minor entitled to immediate payment or possession of hequest
with no direction to pay any person on his behalf. 44.2. Section 341 I'

"34-i. Where a legacy. not being a speciﬁc legacy. is elven for life, the sum

bequeathed shall at the end of the year be invested in such securities as

the Highv(?ourt may by any general rule authorise or direct. and the proceeds
thereof shall be paid to the legatee as the same shall accrue due". The section needs no change. 44.3. Section 342 reads: The section needs no change. 44.4. Section 343 reads as follows :~- S¢cu'on343_.p1--o¢¢.
M _ , _ _ . _ _ _ dure when no fund

:43. Where an annuity is given and no tuntl is cliarged with its pu)'l11€I'ltcha1-ged with, or
or appropriated by the will to answer it. a government annuity of the appropriated to.
speciﬁed amount shall be purchased, or, if no such annuity can be obtained, '""'"">'-
then a'suni sutlicient to produce the annuity shall be invested for that
purpose in securities of the kind mentioned in section 341." The section needs" no change. 44.5. Section 344 reads .-- 5¢c1ion334-.. . . _ _ , Transfer to resi- The section needs no change. 44.0. This takes us to section 345. It reads :-- semen 345-.. _ y _ _ lnvestm nt f "- The section needs no chaiige. -14-.7. Section 346 reads :---A section 34(,_

"346. Where the testator has bequeathed the residue of his estate to a
person for life with a direction that it shall be invested in certain speciﬁed
securities, so much of the estate as is not at the time of his death invested
in securities of the speciﬁed kind shall be converted into money and invested
in such securities". The section needs no change. 44.8. Section 347 provides that such CU1l\'€l'Sl()Il and investment as are con- Section 3474~Timc
templated by sections 345 and 346 shall be made at such times and in such ""d.ma","°" '?l°°"'
manner as the executor or administrator thinks lit: and until such conversion ',:;,S,',(_)" and "west'
and investment are completed, "the person who would be for the time being
entitled to the income of the fund when so invested shall receive at the rate of
4 per cent, per annum upon the market-value (to be computed as at the date

of the testator's death) on each part of the fund as has not been so invested." 44.9. Section 348 reads :-- ScCu'0l134'8--A-Procc. Scope. Section 349---Lega- tee's title to produce
of speciﬁc legacy. (4) Money when paid in under this section shall be invested in the purchase
of Government securities, which, with the interest thereon, shall be transferred
or paid to the person entitled thereto or otherwise applied for his beneﬁt,
as the Judge or the Court of Wards, as the case may be. may direct." The section needs no change. CHAPTER 45
PRODUCE AND INTEREST OF LEGACIES
(SECTIONS 349 TO 355)

45.1. Sections 349 to 355 contain provisions relating to the produce and

interest of legacies. The provisions in sections 349 to 355. though apparently dealing with

matters of detail. are based on certain broad principles. namely. that 2-~ (i) The legatee's title (subject to the provisions as to assent of the executor
or administrator) is eﬁeetive from the date of the testators death, so
that the "clear produce" of the legacy belongs to him from the date
of such death; sections 349-350. (ii) the right to demand payment of the legacy, however, does not ordinarily
arise unless one year has expired since such death---a principle that
explains the provisions (section 351. main paragraph and section 354)
as to commencement of interest: 'l he rate of interest is dealt with in section 353. 45.3. Section 349 reads as under :-- of the legacy. The clear produce of it forms part of the residue of the
testator's estate. . ILLUSTRATION (i) A bequeaths his ﬂock of sheep to B. Between the death of A and
delivery by his executor the sheep are shorn or some of the ewes produce
lambs. The wool and lambs are the property of B. (ii) A bqueaths his Government securities to B, but postpones delivery of
them till the death of C. The interest which falls due between the death of
A and the death of C belongs to B, and must, unless he is minor, be paid
to him as it is received. ' (iii) The testator bequeaths all his four per cent, ('uoxernment promissory
notes to A when he shall complete the age of l8. A. if he completes that
age, is entitled to receive the notes, but the interest which accrues in respect
of them between the testator's death and A's completing l8. forms part of
the residue". The section needs no change. 45.3. Section 350 p1'ov"i(ics that the lcgatec under it general residiiary bequest Section 350--Resi-
is entitled to the produce of the residuary fund, from the testatoris death. The duary Legateefs title
exception to the section lays down that a general resjduary bequest, coiitii1gent:f:la"r:°;1l]"n°3' OF res" bequeathed between the death of the testator and the vesting of the legacy. Such

income goes as undisposed of. The illustrations are as under :w-- (i) The testator bequeaths the residue of his property to A a minor, to be
paid to him when he shall complete the age of 18, The income from the
testator's death belongs to A. (ii) The testator bequeaths the residue of his property to /\ when he shall
complete the age of 18. A, if he completes that age. is entitled to receive
the residue. The income which has accrued in respect of it since the testa-
tor's death goes as undisposed of." This section also needs no change. 45.4. While the last two sections were concerned with the produce of section 351__,]mc_
property_ the next four deal with interest, Section 351 provides as follows :-- rest when no time
_ e _ ﬁxed for a merit
"351. Where no time has been tixed tor the payment of a general legacy, of general lggzcy.
interest begins to run from expiration of one year from the testator's death.
lf~Lx'ceptioii--( 1) Where the legacy is bequeathed in satisfaction of it debt,
interest runs from the death of the testator. (2) Where the testator was a parent or a more remote ancestor of the
legatee, or has put himself in the place of a parent of '.ilC legatee. the
legacy shall bear interest from the death of the testntor. (3) Where a sum is bequeathed to a minor with a direction to pay for his
maintenance out of it. interest is payable from the -.leath of the testator." 45.5. The second exception to section 351 requires some comnients. Accord- Section 35]
mg to the practice of the Chancery D1VlS10n in England,' a minor 'who 1S entitled second Excepn-my
under the Will of his parent, etc. to a legacy contingently on his attaining his origin.
majority is entitled, during minority, to maintenance out of the income of the
legacy. This is the basis of the second exception to section 351. 45.6. Unlike the third exception to section 35l_ the second exception to seem," 351_
section 351 is not conﬁned to minors. In this respect, the English Law is different, second exception-
the corresponding exception being conﬁned to minors.'-' It is also to be noted 99090
that the second exception to section 351, unlike section 352_ does not exclude
cases where :-- second exception to section 351 should, we think, be extended also to the R'=°°mm°"d3"°"5-
spouse of the res/azor. At present. the legacy to spouse does not carry interest
until a year from the death. where no time is ﬁxed for payment This is also the
English laws' But justice requires that the law should be changed. We recommend accordingly. 45.8. Section 352 reads :-- Seem," 352__[me_
"352, Where a time has been ﬁxed for the payment of a general legacy, r°9'Wh€MI'meﬁXed-
interest begins to run from time so ﬁxed. The interest up to such time

forms part of the residue of the tcstatorfs estate. 'Halsbury. 4m Ed.i\/ol. 17, page 641. para 5125573. 'Stem \'. R0/iiiimri, I2 Vex". 461. ='W.~'/mu V. .l/Im/iwm. (1843) 2 Y & C Chancery cases 372. 'Cf. the facts in Ru/am' KIIIII v, /\':'/m. 34 Bombay Law Reporter 1 I24. A..l.R. 1932 Bomba_\ 506.
5Halsbury, 4th Ed. Vol. I7. page 64], para 1256. /;'.tt'a'/)u'Un'--A--\Vhere the testator was a parent or it tnorc remote .lllCC.\lUI'
of the legatee. or has put himself in the place of a parent of the legatee
and the legatee is a minor, the legacy shall bear interest front the death
of the testator, unless a speciﬁc sum is given by the will for maintenance.
or unless the will contains a direction to the contrary." The section needs no change. Section 353---Rate 41.5.9. Section 353 reads as under :-- Recommendation 45.10. The rates of interest laid down at present-----four per cent and Six

'0 'C"i5°5°°"°" 353-per cent respectively----nced to be revised in the light of present day conditions.
The rate now should be uniform and at least twelve per cent in every case.
Power may be given to the court to ﬁx a different rate for special reasons. to
be recorded. We recommend that section 353 should be revised accordingly. The
following is a suggested redraft of section 353. Rt*vi.s'ed Sertiorz 353 : Section 354#N0 45.l 1. This takes us to section 354, which provides that no interest is pay- Section 355~lnte- 45.13. Section 355 lays down that where a sum of money-is directed to

'.'°5' °" 5"m '0 b°be invested to produce an annuity. interest is payable on it from the death of
invested to produce the testamr'

annuity. The section needs no change. CHAPTER 46
REFUND OF LEGACIES (SECTIONS 356 T0 367)
I. Preliminary 5
scope. 46.]. Sections 356 to 365 deal With the refund of legacies in case of assets

proving insuﬂicient to pay all the legacies or in certain other cases. Sections

366-307 deal with certain other matters pertaining to the distribution of assets.
'Cf. Halsbury, 4th Ed. Vol. l7. page 64l. para l255 and Wilsnnv. .Maddison. H843) 2 Y &
C Ch. Cas 372. 3.S'hrimatiBa1im' Bala V. Administrator General of Bengal . Reported in Times of India

22nd June, 1939. page 14, quoted in Paruck, Succession Act (1977). page 781. It should be noted that section 307 (transfer of assets to a foreign executor)'
stand in a class by itself and will require detailed discussion. As will appear
lrtam sections 356 and 357, there is a tlit'r'erence in the position as regards
voltintary payments and other payments,

ll. Refund --lo.2. Section 356 provides that when an executor or adinillislrutor has Section 356----Rc~
paid a legacy under the order of a Court, he is entitled to call upon the legatce to fund Of 16380' Paid
refund in the event of the assets proving insuﬂicicnt to pay all the legacies. The 33:; C°""'~'
section thus confers power to call for relund in case of a payment under the '

order of a court. It needs no change, not having created any problems

46.3. Section 357, presenting a contrast with section 350, provides that when section 357_
an executor or administrator has voluntarily paid a legacy, he cannot call upon
it legatce to refund, in the event of the assets proving insuflicient to pay all the
legacies. The section needs no change. --'.o.4. Section 358 provides that when the time prescribed by the will for Section 358----Rc-
the performance of a condition has elapsed, without the conditions having been fund When legacy
i'.t:l'l0l'lllcLl. and the e,\t:eti=.or or administrator has thereupon, without fraud, g::f(?r°rf1?l';':ed"';f°" lhe section needs no comment. --l(,-.7. Section 361 provides that a creditor who has not received payment 0" Section 36l--Credi'-
his debt may call upon a legatec who has received payment of his legacy to '°' ma)' °3""P°" The section needs a verbal change namely, the last four words should read
"wasting on the part of the executor". , 46.9. Section 363 provides that if the assets were not sutﬁcient to satisfy
§l';°'S';?i'S'ﬁc3d63];;"a1}:,':' all the legacies at the time of the testator's death, a legatee who has not received
must ﬁrst proceed payment of his legacy must, before he can call on a satisﬁed legatee to refund.
against executor. ifﬁrst proceed against the executor or administrator if he is solvent, but if the
5°"'°'"' executor or administrator is insolvent Or not liable to pav. the unsatisﬁed legatee

can oblige each satisﬁed legatee to refund in proportion. The principle underlying the section is that where assets are insuﬂicient to
pay all the legacies, the executor must satisfy the legacies proportionately'. So, if
the legatee has been paid nil. he must have a right of action against the executor. The section needs no change. gwion 354_Limu 46.10. Section 364 provides that the refunding of one legatee to another
to refunding of one shall not exceed the sum by which the satisﬁed legacy ought to have been reduc-
'°33'°° "' ""°"'°" ed if the estate had been properly administered. The illustration to the section reads as under :-- The section needs no change, not having raised any difficulties. Section 365__re_ 46.11. Section 365 provides that the refunding shall in all cases be without
funding to be wm,-interest. The section needs no change. out interest. lll. Distribution - _ -_ 46.l2. Accordinu to section 366, the surplus or residue of the decead's
Section 366 Resi c _ , _
due after usual pay- property, after payment of debts and legacies, shall be paid to the residuary

ments to be paid tolegatee when any has been appointed by the will.
residuary legatee. This section also needs no change. IV. Transfer of assets to foreign executor or administrator

Section 367__.pel-_ 46.13. Withsectioit 367, we enter an area somewhat different from that to
son.not domiciled which the preceding few sections belong. There is a foreign element introduced
'°"V'"9 Nels' which gives the section a theoretical interest of its own. Let us quote the sec- tion: , .. _._

"367. Where. a person not having his domicile in India has died leaving
assets both in India and in the country in which he had his domicile at the
time of his death, and there has been a grant of probate or letters of
administration in India with respect to the assets there and a grant of ad-
ministration in the country of domicile with respect to the assets in that
country, the executor or administrator, as the case may be, in India, after
having given such notices as are mentioned in section 360 and after having
discharged, at the expiration of the time therein named, such lawful claims
as he knows of, may instead of himself distributing any surplus or residue
of the deceased's property to persons residing out of India who are entitled
thereto, transfer, with the consent of the executor or administrator, as the case

=0: é. 36s: '~'ln re .-lt'/Ii/t'npo/1/m'. (l9_'.t'<i I (it. -133. -345. 85»L/B(Dll44.\1oILJ&CA_ ~17

Scope of section
367----after proposed
amendment. Scope of sections
368 and 369. Liability of_execu- tor or administrator
for devastation. Liability of execu- tor or administrator
for neglect to get
any part of property_ 252 the executor or administration, as the case may be, in India, after having
given such notices as are mentioned in section 360 and after having
discharged, at the expiration of the time therein named, such lawful
claims as he knows of. may, instead of himself distributing any surplus
or residue of the deccased's property to persons residing out of India
who are entitled thereto. transfer, with the consent of the executor or
administrator, as the case may be, in the country of domicile, the surplus
or residue to him for distribution to those persons. (2) Where there has been a grant of administration in a country other
than the country of d0micile and other than India, the e.\'eCut0r, or adminis-
trator may, with the permission of the Court, take the same action as he
could have taken if there had been a grant in a country of domicile other
than India and the provisions of this section shall, with necessary modiﬁcations
apply to the case as they apply if there had been a grant in a country of
domicile other than India." 46.18. By way of anticipating certain possible objections to the proposed
extension of the scope of section 367. we may state that the provisions of the
section, even after the proposed amendment, would be conﬁned to a person
not domiciled in India. Secondly, the provision, in so far as its scope is to be
extended, will apply only subject to the permission of the Court. The Court, in
granting permission, will certainly satisfy itself that the transfer of assets to' the
foreign executor or administrator under the section would be in the interests
of justice. It is better to keep the matter elastic as above, rather than tie down
the hands of the Indian executor or administrator or fetter the discretions of the
Court by insisting upon the requirement of reciprocity or other rigid criteria. CHAPTER 47
LIABILITY OF AN EXECUTOR OR ADMINISTRATOR FOR DEVASTA}
TION: SECTIONS 368 AND 369

47.1. Liability of an executor or administrator for devastation is dealt with
in sections 368 and 369, which needs no introductory comments. 47.2. Section 368 reads: The section needs no change. not having raised any serious difficulties.
47.3. Section 369 reads-- This section also needs no challgg; CHAPTER 48. SUCCESSION CERTIFICATES (SECTIONS 370 T0 390)
l. Prelinzinary

48.1. Sections 37()--39U deal with succession certiﬁcates. Under section
370, a succession certiﬁcate cannot be granted in respect of any debt or security
to which a right is, by section 212 or 213. required to be established by letters
of administration or probate. There is an exception provided in the case of a
deceased Indian Christian. The pmeedure for making an application for a succession certi1icate._ and the
Court to which it should be made, are dealt with in sections 37] to 373 and
(where applicable), in section 388. The contents of the certiﬁcate are provided
for in secton 374. Under section 375. the Judge may require security from the
grantee of the certiﬁcate. . The form of the certiﬁcate and "extensions" thereof are regulated by sec-
tions 376 to 377'. Amendment of the certiﬁcate in respect of powers of the

holder as to securities is provided for in section 378. Fees on certiﬁcates are to

be paid as laid down in section 379. The extent and etfect ol certilicates are dealt with in sections 380--382
and 387. The effect of previous certificate is dealt with in section 385. revocation
in section 383 and appeals in section 384. Section 386 validates certain payments made in good faith to the holder
of an invalid certiﬁcate. which has to be delivered to the court as laid down
in section 389. Section 390 dcals with certain provisions regarding the exhibition
of inventories and accounts with respect to Bombay Regulation VIII of 1827. These sections will now be dealt with in detail below_
ll. Succession Certiﬁcates---Grant of 48. 2. Section 370 reads---- corporated institution: tion in the Official Gazette, declare to be a security for the purposes
of this Part." Recommendation 48.3. Sub-section (2). clause (by) of section 370 seems to be obsolete and
(';)(t"')' 5°""°" 37°should be deleted. We recommend accordingly. Need for change of 48.4. Section 370 bars the grant of a succession certiﬁcate, inter alia, in
5"b9""'°€~ cases where letters of administration (or probate) are mandatory, Letters of
administration are mandatory in the case of Christians other than Indian Chris-
tians dying intestate'-*to mention the most usual situation. We are of the view
that this restriction is not required except where probate is mandatory. The bar
in section 370 should be limited only to cases where probate is mandatory. In the
case of probate, the will has to be proved and it is understandable that without
proof of the will, payment should not be made on the strength of a mere succes-
sion certiﬁcate. But this reasoning does not apply with the same forceto letters
of administration, where title is sought to be derived on the basis of a right of
inheritance conferred by law and no formal writing is to be proved in general. Recommendation ,- 48.5. Accordingly, we recommend that section 370(1) should be revised
as to section 370(1) as under ._

( l) A succession Certiﬁcate (hereinafter in this Part referred to as a certi-
ficate) shall not be granted under this Part with respect to any debt or
security to which a right is required by section 212 or section 213 to be
established by . . . . .. probate. (Existing Proviso to be omitted as a con-
sequential change). '

Survivorship under 48.6. We are also of the view that there should be a provision for the
Section 370- grant of certiﬁcate on survivorship. By making this amendment, the legislature would be merely giving recogni-
tion to what is already the practice!-3 in some parts of India. 48.7. Although a certiticatc. issued to certify survivorship should be des-
cribed as "Survivorship certiﬁcate". we do not propose to chage the present
nomenclature (succession certiﬁcate"), since it has. by now. become familiar
to all concerned. Recommendation 48.8. Accordingly, we recommend that the following proviso should be

to add further pr0- added to section 370(1) : 48.14. The other view is taken in at Bombay case ". This was decided with
reference to the Succession Certiﬁcate Act 27 of 1860. Section 3 of that Act
contemplated the issue of a certiﬁcate for a British subject either resident
in the district where the certiﬁcate is sought, or else, having no ﬁxed place of
residence. The deceased in that case was a resident of Baroda, (outside British
India) and had died there. The High Court observed "the representation of

Conﬂict of views. 'Cheshire, Private international Law (1970) , page 580. IV . Procedure. 48.21. This takes us to section 372, which reads as under 2- pective residences; (d) the right in which the petitioner claims; (e) the absence of any impediment under section 370 or under any
other provision of this Act or any other enactment, to the grant of the
certiﬁcate or to the validity there of if it were granted; and

(1') the debts and securities in respect of which the certiﬁcate is applied
for. - (2) If the petition contains any averment which the person verifying it
knows or believes to be false, or does not believe to be true, that person
shall be deeemed to have committed an offence under section 198 of the

45 ofl860. Indian Penal Code . (3) Application for such a certificate may bemade in respect of any debt
or debts due to the deceased creditor or in respect of portions thereof". 48.22. With reference to this section (section 372), there seems to be a
conflict of decisions on the question whether, the word "debt" includes movable Mganing of subt-
property that has been pledged, In a Bombay case2, the question arose whether in section 372.
a succession certiﬁcate could be granted in respect of gold or ornaments pledged
by the deceased with a bank. It was held that the pledgee's obligation to return
to the pledger's heirs the pledged movable property was not a 'debt', as it
was not a speciﬁc. or ascertained or liquidated sum of money, A similar View

had been taken in a Patna case? However, an Allahabad judgment* takes a different view in this regard. We have discussed the matter under section 214', and need not repeat here
the points made in that discussion. 'Para 48.16. supra. 'lkanchhoddas Govinddas Bmzatwala, (1976) 78 Born. L.R. 219. 233. lhe purport of the comment is not very clear, but it would appear that the
intention is that the facility of succession certificate should be extended to
properties other than "debts" also. At present, section 372(1) (f) conﬁnes suc-
CCSSi0n CCrIiﬁCIltC.\ to debts. Although the suggestion does not say so. presumably
the intention is thi.s--~--in cases where "administratioii" of the estate is not con--
iciiiplated, and all that is contemplated is that some kind of jiulicial miiﬁrnititioii
of a person being the heir to the property is needed, the law should provide
such a facility. Such Ll facility in-ay be of use in connection with dealings with
public oiiices, where the question of succession to a particular property is in
issue and the public oﬁice concerned wants some such conﬁrmation,

Utility of suggested 48.22B. We regard this as an important suggestion, if the reasons tinderly-- amendment' ing the suggestion (which are not stated in the letter of the Association) are
what we have surmised above. There do arise. in practice, occasions when title
to property other than debts may have to be established before public authorities
and if a court is given power to issue such a certiﬁcate, it would certainly prove
to be of Lise. At present. the object can be achieved by the somewhat more
cumbersome proce<.lure w n declaratory suit in which the claimant can seek
a declaration about his title-a title based on testamentary or intestate succession.
Of course, the claimant filing a declaratory suit is expected to show that
there is some kind oi" *'c'ioti»"" on his title. If there is no controversy between
"rival heirs". a declaratory still may not be quite appropriate. The suggestion
for extending the facility or succession certiﬁcate to property other than debts
has therefore a practical utility. 'l'heore.tically also. there seems to be no obiec-
tion in principle to such an amendment of the Act. section 386A m be 48.22C. No doubt, such an amendment would require extensive amendments

inserted. in several sections of the Act. This task could be left to the draftsman--though
we do have a suggestion which may probably avoid an amendment of too many
sections of the Act. What we have in mind is the insertion of a short section.
say, as section 386A----which will provide' that the provisions of section 370
to 385 shall, so far as may be, and with necessary modiﬁcations, apply_ in rela--
tion to property other than debts, as they apply in relation to debts,

Se t. 372 48.33. .»\.noihcr question. relevant to section 372. may be noted on the
apgllggt,-on ii". 1, subject of the pm.~;,:tltii'e to be followed regarding the grant of certiﬁcate lo a
minor. ' minor. There is it coiiilict of views. which can be summansed as under :-- cutta view'----that a succession certiﬁcate may be granted to a minor
acting throttgli his HEX] frieml. This is the most liberal view. (ii) Secondly, we have the Madras view" holding that a succession certi-
ﬁcate can be granted. to the minor on the application of his iiatiiral
guardian. Tliis also appears to be the later Calcutta view". Incidentally. 'Law Comniission File No. F. 2 l.6).84 l..C. S. 'No. 6A. »
Hindustani Mercantile Association Delhi. Letter No. HMA/22_4l dated 30th May.
1984. 3To be cdrried out by inserting section 386A. 259.

it may be pointed out that this is L! niore rigid \iC\\' than the iifsl.
since. according to it. only the natural gruardiaii can apply and no other
person can apply as the next friend on behalf of the minor. This may
be called the middle view. 'l'liii'dlv. there is at Bombay rulling'. according to which the certiﬁcate
can be grantctl to the guardian only if he is aptiinted a guardian of
the property of the minor under the Ciuardian & \V'-trdﬁ ACI. 1890. This
is the narrowest view. (iii)

48.2-l. it is iiotewortliy that there is no speciﬁc provision in section 372
prohibiting the grant of probate to a minor. In this respect, sections 223 and 236.
which relate to the grant of probate and letters of administraion respectively.
may be contrasted. These sections prohibit grant to a minor. The rcilson why the
two sets of provisions are differently frtimed appears to be this. Probate is granted
to an executor appointed by the tcstator. Normally, the executor would not be a
niiiior. but in the rare case in which he is a minor. the prohibition against grant
of probate~ai1d consequential refusal by the court to grant the probate to him--
would not cause serious hardship. because letters of administration with the will
annexed can still be obtained by another suitable person,

It may be noted that the law does not impose very rigid limitations as to
the grant of letters of administration. in the case of a succcssioii certiﬁcate. how-
ever. the position is ditlcrent. Only the person who has the right to the debt
in qucstioii can apply. so that the ﬁeld of choice is limited and is determined, not
by statutory provisions or by the tcstator's directions or by the orders of the
court, but by external circuinstances~--tlie person who have survived the deceased
and stand in the prescribed relationship to him. Apparently for this reason, the
Act does not provide a total bar as such against the minor being grained succession
certiﬁcate. Under section 372(] ) (d), the right which the petitioner claims has to be
speciﬁed in the petion, this indicating that the claimant must be a person who has
some title or interest in the debt. If the person who has some title or interest
happens to be a minor. only he can apply for a succession certiﬁcate. 48.25. The question that should really survive for practical consideration is
only one as to the procedure to be followed by the minor. The grant of succes-
sion certiﬁcate to a minor as such cannot be denied as a matter or law. but
safeguards could still be laid down. Of course, the saleguards should not impose
very severe restrictions on the pursuit of the remedy for enforcing a right that
is already vested in the minor. Hzlviltg J'cgLii'd to the abmc coiisi«.let';itioiis. the proper course, in our view.
would be to provide---by way of clariﬁcation and by way of indicating the correct
procedure--that where the applicant for succession certiﬁcate is a minor, he may
apply through a next friend as if he were a pltiiiitiﬁ in a suit and the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure . 1908 should. so far as may be. apply in relation
to such l'iC.'\[ trieiids as they apply in relation to a next friend suing under im-
Code'-'. We may add that the provision proposed would not only possess practical
utility. but would also be consistent with the object underlying the provisions
of the Act as to succession certiﬁcate. Incidentally. section 384(3), by mentioning
section I41 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (though in a difi'erent context).
assumes that the Code of Civil Procedure , as far as may be applies to proceedings
for succession certiﬁcate. Thus, the amendment which we are recommending would
be in harmony with the assumptions underlying the entire cliaptcr_ ' -i8.25A. it should be pointed out that the grant of a Certiﬁcate only to a
court---appointed guardian3 would be highly inconvenient. It means that if the
guardian is changed. a fresh succession certiﬁcate will have to be obtained,

'In Re- V(1I'_l'(III K//zriiderr/ta, 35 Bomba_\' Law Reporter 950: A.l.R. 1933 Born. 436. -'For draft. see para 4.9.26. /'1_/'ru. 48.27. This takes us to section 373. It rCdd.\'-- lished in such other manner, if any, as the Judge, subject to any rules
made by the High Court in this behalf, thinks tit, and upon the day
ﬁxed, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable, shall proceed to
decide in a summary manner the right to the certiﬁcate. (2) When the Judge decides that the right thereto to belong to the appli-
cant, the Judge shall make an order for the grant of the certiﬁcate to
him. (3) If the Judge cannot decide the right to the certiﬁcate without determining
questions of law or fact which seems to be too intricate the diﬁicult for deter-
mination in a summary proceeding, he may nevertheless grant a certiﬁcate
to the applicant if he appears to be the person having prima facie the best
title thereto. (4) When there are more applicants than one for a certiﬁcate, and it appears
to the Judge that more than one of such applicants are interested in the
estate of the deceased the Judge may, in deciding to whom the certiﬁcate
is to be granted, have regard to the extent of interest and the ﬁtness in other
respects of the applicants." The section needs no change. having created no serious problems. . Form and Contents

48.28. Section 374 provides that when the District Judge grants a certificate,

tents of certiﬁcate. he shall therein specify the debts and securities set forth in the application for

Section 375---Requi- sition of security
from grantee of
certificate. the certificate. and may thereby empower the person to whom the certiﬁcate is
granted---- ,

(21) to receive llitt.'.='('.\l or dividends on. or (b) to negotiate or transfer. or

(C) both to receive interest or dividends on, and to negotiate or transfer, the
securities or any of them. This section also needs no change. 48.29. Section 375 reads: ginally given to him instead of to the Judge of the court, and to recover, as
trustee for all persons interested. such amount as may be recoverable there-
under." The section needs no change. having raised no problems. 48.30. Section 376 reads.'----~ Section 376----Ex-
. _ _ _ ' _ , tension of certiﬁcate. This section also needs no change. 48.31. Section 377 provides that certiﬁcates shall be grained and extensions Sm,-0,, 3-;7_
of certiﬁcates shall be made. as nearly as circumstances admit. in the forms set
forth in Schedule VIII. The section llCC(l:4 no change. 4832. This takes us to section 378. which provides that where a District Section 378--
Judge has not conferred, on the holder of a certiﬁcate, any power with respect. to ;':t'f£C':1':;°'i": respcﬁ
a security speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate, or has only empowered on him to receive of powgfg as to
interest or dividends on, or to negotiate or transfer, the security, the Judge may, Securities-
on application made by petition and on cause shown to his satisfaction, amend
the certiﬁcate by conferring any of the powers mentioned in section 374 or by

substituting any one for any other of those powers. The section needs no change. liaving created no serious problems. 48.33. Section 379 consists of three sub--secti0ns. Sub-Section (1) provides Section 3 '[9--Modc
that every application for a certiﬁcate or for the extension of a certiﬁcate_sha1l;.'fC°"°°""3.€°""'
be accompanied by a deposit of a. sum equal to the fee payable under the 66$ on Gem cams'
COUrt--lccS Act. W70. in respect of the certiﬁcate of extension applied for. Sub-Section (2) lays down that if the application is allowed, the sum depo-
sited by the applicant shall be expended. under the direction of the Judge, in
the purchase of the stamp to he used for denoting the fee payable as afore-
said. Finally. sub section (3) provides that any sum received under sub section
(I) and not expended under sub-section (2) shall be refunded to the person
who deposited it. 48.34. The question has arisen as to the stage at which refund is permissible Controversy as to
under section 379 (3). It is the stage before passing of the order for grant of stage of refund.
2: certiﬁcate, could it be any later stage'? The nature of the controversy Wm be
apparent on a consideration of selected cases on the seCtion_

48.35. lll a Madras case". the District Judge. Tihnevelly, referred the follow- The case law.
ing question to the High C()lall 1»- The same view has been subsequently taken in it Lahore case". Comment on case 48.37. it is, with respect, suggested that on the language of sub-section

law. (2'), refund is not permissible Once the application is allowed. Under that sub-
section the money can be spent only for purchase of the stamp. it thus impliedly
bars refund, once the application is allowed,

The opening words of section 379(2) are "if the application is allowed",
and not "when the certifﬁcate. is granted". Therefore, once a court has allowed an
application for succession certiﬁcate and has passed an order to that effect.
whether with or without a condition, the sum can be appropriated only towards the
payment of the stamp. If the applicant has failed to fulﬁl a condition, the State
cannot be deprived of its legitimate ducs_ more particularly when the court has
heard the parties, spent its time and exercised its mind on the problems. Recommendation 48.38. We recommend that in order to make the position clear, it new sub-
to 'insert Sl_1l>- section should be inserted in section 37'), as follows :-- We also recommend that the provisions of sub--section (3) should be made
subject to new sub-section (4) which is proposed to be inserted as above_

Section 379 (3) should. therefore, begin as follows :~-- Vll. Effect of certiﬁcate

, 48.39. Section 380 reads :-- 48.40.Sction 381 prmiocs that subject to the provisions' of this Part the
certiﬁcate of the District Judge shall, wth respect to the debts and securities spccﬁed
therein, be conclusive as against the persons owing such debts or liable on such
securities, and shall. notwithstanding any contravention of section 370. or other
defect, atlord full indemnity to all such persons as regards all payments made.
or dealings had, in good faith in respect of such debts or securities to or with the
person to whom the certificate was granted. The section needs no change. h'a\'lI1g raised no problems.
48.4l.Section 382 reads :-- tended under this l"art. '
The section needs no cltatlge. Vlll. Rex ucatien
48.42. Section 383 rt-ads:---- This section also needs no change. 48.43. Section 384 reads:---- ment of the Code of Civil Procedure . 1908. as applied by section '|4l of
that Code, an order of a District Judge under this Part shall he ﬁnal". The section needs no change. having created no problems_ section 3 '35....Eﬁ'¢c1 18.4-/.1. Section_385 pI't)\itlcs that save asprovided by this Act. a certiﬁcate

on _ccrttﬁcate ofgranted thereunder in respect of any of the eﬁects of a deceased person shall be

'F":§l';;':;'5or°f;t't'g°S"(§':,invalid if there has been it previous grant of such a certiﬁcate or of probate or

admm;S,m;°,,_ letters of 'administrat_ion in respect of the estate of the deceased person and it'
such previous grant is in force. The section needs no change. IX. Miscellaneous

Validation of cer-- 48.45. Section 386 ieatls:-- by reason of the certiﬁcate having been revoked under section 383. or by
reason of the grant of a certificate to a person named in an appellate order
l1l1tlCl' section 38-1. or by reason of a certiﬁcate having been previously
granted. or for any other cause. all payments made. or dealings had. as
regards debts and securities speciﬁed in the superseded or invalid certiﬁcate.
to or with the holder of that certiﬁcate in ignorance of its supersession or
iiivalidity, shall be held good against claims under any other certiﬁcate." The language is slightly involved. but the ptirpose is fairly clear. No change
is therefore needed in the section. Section 386A. 48.46. We have already recommended' the insertion of a new section to
' provide for the facility of succession certiﬁcate. even in regard to properties other

than debts. The relevant section can be inserted as section 386A. . . 48.47. This takes us to section 387, which rovides that no decision under
Section 387--Eﬁect . . . . p . of decisions under this part upon any question of right between any parties shall be held to bar
this Act, and liabi- the trial of the same question in any suit or in any other proceeding between the
lit)', of holder Of same parties. and nothing in this Part shall be construed to affect the liability
certiﬁcate there- -, _' , '. .; a , 1 . .. f . . - ,
under of any person who may iecent the whoe or any pait 0 any debt or seeurit).
' or any interest or dividend on any security. to account therefor to the person
lawfttlly cntitlcd thereto. The section needs no change. having created no ditlictiltics,

48.48. Section 388 I'c'1l(l.\':~-- arid the provisions of this Part relating to the District Judge shall apply to
such an inferior Court as if it were a District Judge; Provided that an appeal from any such order of an inferior Cotirt as is
mentioned in sub-section (l) of section 384_shal1 lie to the District Judge.
and not to the High Court. and that the District Judge may, if he thinks
'See diseussioii relatiiig to section 372 (l)tf) for extending the facility ol" succession certi-
ﬁcate to properties other than debts, supra. 5 ofl908. 5 of I908. 5 M1908. ﬁt, by his order on the appeal, make any such declaration and directions
as that sub-section authorises the High Court to make by its order on an
appeal from an order of a District Judge. (3) An order of a District Judge on an appeal from an order of an inferior
Court under the last foregoing sub-section shall, subject to the previ-
sions as to reference to and revision by the High Court and as to review of
judgment of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, as applied by section 141
of that Code, be ﬁnal. (5,) /\ notitication under-section (1) may specify any interior Court spe-
cially or any class of such Court in any area. (6) Any Civil Court which for any of the purposes of any enactment is
subordinate to, or subject to.the control of, a District Judge shall, for the

purpose of this section. be deemed to be a Court inferior in grade to a
District Judge." The section needs no change.'

48.49. Section 389 provides that when a certiﬁcate under this Part has

been superseded or is invalid from any of the causes mentioned in section 386,
the holder thereof shall. on the requisition of the court which granted it. deliver
it up to that court. If he wilfully and without reasonable cause omits so to deliver it up, he

shall be punishable with line which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with both. The section needs no change. having created no problems. 48.50. Section 390 reads:--~

"39(). Notwithstanding anything in Bombay Regulation No, VIII of 1827,
the provisions of section 370, sub-section (2), section 372, sub-section (1),
clause (f) and sections 374. 375, 376, 377, 378, 379, 381, 382, 384, 387, 388
and 389 with respect to certiﬁcates under this Part and applications there-
for, and of section 317 with respect to the exhibition of inventories and
accounts by e.\ecutors and administrators, shall, so far as they can be made
applicable, apply, respectively,' to certiﬁcates granted under that Regula-
tion, and applications made for certiﬁcates thereunder. after the 1st day
of May I889, and to the exhibition of inventories and accounts by the
holders of \uch certificates so granted." This section also needs no change. CHAPTER 49

SUCCESSION BY HOMICIDE

SECTION 390A
( Proposed )

I, Introductory 49.l. We are concerned in this Chapter with a fundamental principle of

public policy, namely, that a man should not be allowed to derive a beneﬁt

'Information as to empowerment is being collected. Section 389----~sur- render ofsupersedcd
and invalid certiﬁ- cates. Section 390-Provi- sions with respect to
certiﬁcate under
Bombay Regula- tion VIII of 1837. Scope of the Chap- ter. resulting from his own crime. lhis principle, well-recognised in the legal systems
of many countries." including India," has not yet been expressly enacted in the Indian Succession Act . The object of this Chapter is to consider the need for
codiﬁcation of the above principle in it suitable form in the Act. after a brief
examination of the present position in this regard. The higheﬂa" 49.2. All laws must conform to a higher law. An American case wliiclt is
a good example of this approach is Riggs v. Palmer, where the New York Court
Of Appeals held that 2: legatee did not gain title to property which
he would have received as the result of murdering his testator. liar] J. said that
there are certain principles that "have their foundatt"on in universal law admini--
stered in all civilised countries" and that "all laws, as well as all contracts, may
be controlled in their operation and ellcct by general. fundamental maxims of
the common law". t

Motive immatet-iaJ_ -19.3. Accordingly. where a person murders another he generally should
not be allowed to enjoy the property he acquires as the result of that death. /P£:°;"°" "me" 'he 49.4. .--\t present. lio\\e\'cr. there is no express provision in the Indian
' Succession Act debarring a person who has committed homicide for his right
to succeed to the estate of the person whose death he has caused. No doubt, this
would be the position under the rules of the common law (to be dealt with
later)? But it is appropriate that this important topic should be dealt with by
a speciﬁc statutory provision in an Act which is a consolidating enactment. In order to obtain a proper perspective of the matter. it would be useful
first to deal brieﬂy with the position in cases not governed by the Act, and
then to recommend the amtndment that could be appropriately made in the
Act. ll. Hindu Law and Muslim_law

1-[indu'La\v. 49.5. According to Hindu law. even before the passing of the Hindu
Succession Act } no heirship to another person could be claimed by or through
one who has been a privy to the murder of that person. This rule was one of
public policy and had been given effect to by the Privy Council. "--'° relying on
ancient texts. Even before the Privy Council decision. substantially the same
result had been reached by the High Courts in India. A Madras case may be cited" in illustration. Defendant. the mother of 
had been charged, along with another accused, with having murdered S. Defen-
dant was acquitted, though the other accused was convicted. Plaintiﬁ, as the
person next in succession to S. (after the defendant). now sued for a declaration
of his right to the property of S on the ground that the defendant was not entitled
to the property, inasmuch as she had. ( as the plaintiff alleged) been party to the
murder. The subordinate iudge dismissed the suit without trying the question
whether he defendant had been a party to the murder. On appeal it was held by
the High Court that the question should have been tried. The reasoning was
as follows: 49.7. T he Hindu Succession Act * now provides as follows;--- Provision in Hindu
" _ _ ' Succession Act . 25. A person who commits a murder or abets the commission of murder

shall be disqualiﬁed frominheriting the property of the person murdered,
or any other property in furtherance of the succession to which he or she
committed or abetted the commission of the murder". 49.8. The rule under Muslim law is also substantially the sanief For Muslim law.
example,' the Chief'Court of Punjab held that a Muslim who had murdered his
half-brother could not be allowed to claim the property of the deceased as
his heir. . llI. Common Law u,,,,,',,.,,, law

49.9. There is enough authorityin common law for such a bar. In England,
as early as 1892,5 it was laid down that murder forfeits all beneﬁts under the
will of his victim. In 1914, this principle was extended from murder to man-
slaughter.' In regard to intestacy, it was decided in 1935 that the same rule of
public policy applies.'

49.10. The general rule* in England is that a person may not derive a
beneﬁt resulting from his own crime." the principle that no criminal can retain a beneﬁt which acrues to him
from crime" is now well accepted.''-''

The English cases all deal with direct inheritance of the murderer from the
victim. The problem of indirect inheritance does not seem to have arisen in
"England." 49.11. Some questions of proof have arisen" in England, but we are not,

in the Succession Act , concerned with them. What requires to be emphasised
is that the rule barring the murderer from succession is one of public policy, and

Public Policy

'Kenchava v."G1'rimallappa, A.l.R. I924, 209, 21 l. V

" Section 25 . Hindu Succession Act . 1956. See Minote v. Sits/ii/. A.l.R. i982 Born. 68 for mean-
ing of "murder". '~'Tyabji, Muslim Law (1968), pages 762, 820, 865. _

'S/ta/i Khanam, v. Kalahand/tar K/tan, Vol. I Punj. Rep. 455, cited in Vedcmyadu Mmlaliar v.
Vcdamal, I.L.R. 27 Mad. 591, 599. 5(a) Cleaver v. Mutual Reserve Fund Life Associatio/1, (1892), 1 Q.B. 147 (CA). (b) Beresford (1938) A.C. 586. 1°51. Jolm Sltipping Corporation v. Joseph Bank LId., (1957) 1 QB. 267, 292, per Devlin J. 49.13. In the civil law system, for cxamplr, tl1c murderer is not allowed
. to reclaim the legacy." The Frencli law has 'oeetl thus stated with r'elcrerrce to the French Civil
Code." "The heir must not be unworthy. The Coda has three causes of un-
worthiness (indignite), all somewhat academic which may exclude an heir from
the succession." These arc; t 1) it he has been condeinned for having killed or attempted
to kill the deceased; C) it' he has brought a complaint of a capital charge
against the deceased; (3') it he is aware that the deceased has been murdered
and does not inform the legal authors of the murder." Kussianylaw 49.13.1111 the Russian Law of ll1l1€l'llé:ll1CC,' a citizen disqualities, himself
' trom successiona under Wlll or intestancy, if hi: has promoted his inheritance by

unlawful acts directed against the deceased, against any of his successors, or
against the carrying out of the wishes of the deceased as expressed' in his will,
provided such acts are established in judicial proceedings. 01' course, it is not [tt.'t.'L's_b'clly that the motive of the person sought to be
disqualiﬁed must be to gain the inlieritaiicc by his unlawful aL'![0}I.

u_s,A, 49.14. in several States in the U.S.A., the principle had been recognised
by statute as early as 1936. It is apparent"-" that "the social interest served by
refusing to permit the criminal to proﬁt by his crime is greater than that served
by the preservation and enforcement of legal righis of ownership."" Theo of C0 _ «J.9..l5. Co_inmcritators in the. U.S.A. have suggested a constr'uctiv_e trust as

t,'.uCti:,'; Trust.' 1" the logical device for denying cnioynient of beneﬁts toponc who accelerates his
interest by murdering the persons whose continued existence prevents acquisi-
tion. However, most courts which reject literal interpretation of an unequivocal
statute of descent, have found it simpler to draw an exception sanctioned by
public policy. ""1" '

'Re c'a//am-, twin) All LR. is t, 452 (V«'ll§t:)_' J.) noted on in (1956) 72 l..Q.R. 7475.' W -'Sec para 49. ll, ct. seq. in/'ru. tration could be revoked or annulled for a fihst cause', This is not. however. a
bar of the right to .§'((C'('€(,'-(ti, whether on intestacy or on testnnientary succession.
If any such bar is to be read, it has to be derived from the general principles
of law which have been mentioned above in the context of a discussion of the
law before the Hindu Succession Act " and the rule at common law.'

In this position, prima fut-ie, there is need for inserting £1 suitable provision
on the subject in the Succession Act , so as 'to make the Act comprehensive. On
the merits, there can hardly be any doubt. as to the soundness of the principle. 49.17. Certain questions of detail may, no doubt. require attention. There Debate 35") malls
has, for example, been much debate in England whether the principle should 'ea'
have any application if the criminal has no mens red, but is nevertheless found
guilty of a criminal offence.'

, This problem may, for instance, arise if the accused is convicted of a
statutory offence of strict liability or (in England) is found guilty oi' man-slaugh-
ter by reason of diminished iesporrsibility. in England, some Judges have
repected any such distinction. In their view. to accept it. would be to encourage sentimental speculation
as to the motives and degrees of the moral guilt of a person who has been justly
convicted? '

49.18. Thus, in Re. Giles," Pennycuick V.C. refused to analyse the ground Decision in Re,

upon which the courts have established this rule of public policy. "It is suﬁiicent Cites. to say that the rule has been established and that the deserving of punishment -and moral culpability are not necessary ingredients -of the type of crime to which

this rule applies, that is culpable homicide, murder or manslaughter", Conse- quently, he held that alpcrson convicted of manslaughter could not benefit under

his victims's will. even though he was found guilty through diminshcd responsi- bility. In the case referred to above,' Lilian Myra Giles struck her husband a single
blow on the head with a domestic chamber pot, with the result that he dies ten
days later. The deceased had made a will in favour of his wife. '

49.19. But the decision referred to above' has not escaped criticism, Golf
and Jones state their comments in this respect as follows" :---- 'Para 49. l.. mpru. 'Para 49.4. .\'I1[1I'(l. 49.22. Some illustrative cases under section 304A of the Penal Code may
be referred to in this context. In one Allahabad case} the accused (a woman)
received a powder from an enemy of her relative, took no precaution to ascer-
tain whether it was noxious and mixed it with the relative's food, believing that
by so doing she would become rich. It was held that her conduct was wanting
in that prudence and circumspection which every human being is supposed to
exercise, and as, by her rash and thoughtless act, she had caused death, she was
guilty of an offence under section 304A. I.P.C . ' In a Calcutta case,' the accused operated on another person for internal
piles by cutting them out with an ordinary knife. The man died from haemor-
rhagc. The Court held that he had no intention to casue the death of the patient.
In the circumstances of the case. it was held that the conviction under section
304A was a proper one. In another case.5 the facts were as follows :-- CHAPTER 50
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND SCHEDULES

50.1. Miscellaneous matters are provided for in section 391, which reads Section 39!.
as under:------ 1Motan Ram, (1930) 32 Cr. LJ. 463. referred to in Ratanlal, The Law of Crimes (22nd Ed.
page 8l5. in Hindu Succession Act , l956, section 2 , should be adopted, so as to secure
uniformity. A person to whom the Hindu Succession Act applies would, then.
be regarded as a "Hindu" for the purposes of the Indian Succession Act also.
This should be carried out by amending section 2 of the Indian Succession
Act, by inserting a deﬁnition of the expression "Hindu" after section 2(c) .
As a consequential change, expressions referring to Buddhists, etc. along with
Hindu, wherever they occur in the Act, may be omitted.'

(2) A definition of the expression "child" should also be inserte_d, as
under :----- ' .,_ ,

"(aa) 'child' includes--~ (a) an adopted child. in the case of any one whose personal law
permits adoption; (b) an illegiiimate child." (3) A deﬁnition of the expression "Parsi" should be inserted. (4) To remove the discrepancy between the deﬁnition of "probate" as oc-
curing in section 2 (t') and the form of probate as given in the Sixth Schedule
to the Act . the deﬁnition of "probate 'should be revised, and the expression

'See for example. discussion as to sections 63--v65, 91. etc.

"Law Commission File No. F. 2(6)/84-L.C. S. No. GA Hindustani Mercantile Association,
Delhi letter No. HMA/'224l dated 30th May. l984. which is relevant on the subject of conﬂict of laws.'

On adding the tests that will become operative by virtue of the proposed
new provisions relating to formal validity of wills, the restrictive rule contained
in section 5 would, to some extent, become inaccurate. since that section pro-
vides for only two criteria (law of domicile of a person at the time of his
death, or the law of India). On this score. section 5 will need suitable amend- merit.'

(7) Insertion of certain new sections 3A to 3B is recommended, to deal
with the rules of conﬂict of laws as to the formal validity of wills." (8) Section 4 , at present, provides that Part 1] of the Act ( sections 4 to 19 )
which deals with domicile, does not apply to Hindus, Mohammedans, Buddhists.
Sikhs or Jains. It is, however, desirable that Part II of the Act should be extended
to the persons who are at present excluded from its scope by section 4 . The
reason is, that even now, the rules contained in sections 5 to 18 governing
domicile are, by judicial decisions, followed, in principle, in determining the
domicile of the excluded persons. Section 4 should therefore be deleted.'

(9) In regard to section 5 . which deals with the law that will regulate
succession to the immovable and movable property of a person deceased, it is
necessary to provide an exception for cases where the deceased has, by his
will, expressly opted for applying the national law in relation to s_uccession'to

his movable property. 1

This change should be carried on in section 5 . even if the recommendation
for the addition of liberal provisions generally in regard to the law determining

the validity of execution of wills is not accepted.'

(10) ln the light of the separate recommendation for inserting certain tests
relating to the formal validity of wills which are not contained in present section
5 , section 5 will require consequential amendment. by adding, at the end of
that section, the following new sub-section:---- perty, it. is desirable to provide that where it is ditﬁcult to determine the domi-
cile of a person by reason of the fact that he has two or more places of perma-
nent residence, the place where he last permanently resided shall be the place
of his domicile. Section 19 may be the appropriate place for carrying out this
object, and it is therefore, recommended that a suitable Explanation should be
added to that section for the purpose}. 1Paragraph 3.20. '=Paragraphs 4. 2. 4. 18 and 4.20. mended in the Report." t 14) With reterertr to section 10 , which deals with the acquisition of a new
domicile, a 'verbal. change is recommended so as to substitute. for the existing
word "man", the word ''person'".'

(15). Illustration (i) to section 10 should be verbally amended, and illus--
trations (vi) and (vii) to that section should be deleted as obsolete, for reasons

given in the Report." (16) The Explanation to section I() should be revised as under :----- l:.'.\'pl(m(1ti0n~--A person is not deemed to have taken up his ﬁxed habitation
in India or in any other country merely by reason of his residing there in
serivce of any Government, authority or person or in the exercise of any
profession or calling, but if a person, having gone to another country for
the purpose of service or the exercise of any profession or calling intends
to remain there. he may acquire a domicile in that country.'''''

(17) In regard to section H which deals with a special mode of acquiring
domicile by making a declaration in the prescribed office, it is desirable to clarify
its scope (which is intended to be a limited one) by adding an Explanation to
the ggfect that the provisions of the section confer a limited domicile only for the
purpose of regulating .S'Il('('('.$'.S'IOI1 to movable /1r0pert_v, and not for any other

purpose.'

(18) Section It provides that "any person" may acquire a domicile in
India by depositing a speciﬁed declaration. It should be made clear that the
section is not intended to cover the case of a person who is not competent to
contract. The section should, therefore, be amended by adding, after the words
"any person," the words "competent to contract by the law of the country in
which he was immediately before such declaration domiciled." (19). As regards section 14 which deals with the domicile of the minor, . certain changes. based largely on section 4 , Domicile and Matrimonial Proceed-
ings Act, 1973 of England. are recommended? (20) Further, from the scope of section 14 , the case where the parent
mala ﬁde changes his domicile, should be excluded. This change has been recom-
mended by the Commission while dealing with section 7 ." 'Paragraph 5.2%. (22) Section [5 provides that, by marriage, a woman acquires the domicile
of her husband, if she had not the same domicile before. How far the section
should be retained in its present form. depends on the view to be taken with
reference to section 16 .'

(231 As reg2n'ds -section l6 which. in its main paragraph, provides that the
wife's domicile during marriage follows her husband's domicile, it is necessary
to substitute a different rule, which would leave the domicile of a manit-d
woman to be governed by the rules that will otherwise apply. (24) The amendment of section 16 recommended above.' would render the
Exception to section 16 unnecessary. The Exception provides that the wife's
domicile no longer follows that of her husband, if they are separated by the: (26) Section l8, at present, provides that an insane person cannot acquire
a new domicile in any other way than by his domicile following the domicile
of another person. It is recommended that the section should be revised as
under :~-- '

"I8. The domicile of an insane person follows that of the person in whose
care and protection he is for the time being." (27) To meet cases where domicile of a person cannot be determined, new
section 18A should be inserted. on the following lines :-- 'Paragraph S.6l. (29) Section 22(1) should be revised as under :-- If. on the other hand. it is considered that as a matter of social policy.
the provisions of the Travancore Christaian Succession Regulation should
govern succession to the persons concerned, then there should be inserted
a provision in section 29 of the Indian Succession Act to the effect that
the Travancore Regulation would apply to Christians governed by that Regu-
lation in respect of intestate' succession--- ti) in the State of Kerala, and (ii) the adjoining areas in the State of Tamil Nadu (in the district
of Kanya Kumari and Shencottah taluk). ' (ii) Besides the above amendment, an Explanation should be added to sec-
tion 29(2') of the Indian Succession Act . to the effect that "law" in this
section does not include custom.'

(CS) The recommendation made above regarding the Travancore Succession
Regulation applies with necessary adaptation. to the Cochin Succession

Act also.'

(d; If the Indian Succession Act . 1925, becomes applicable to the persons in
question. provisions made for daughters by the father should be taken
into account when the succession opens on intestacy. It is therefore,
recommended that suitable provision should be made to the effect that
from the share to be distributed to :1 daughter on intestacy, the amount
or value of the property so provided by the father during his lifetime
should be deducted. provided the following conditions in favour of
the daughter are fulﬁlled :-- sion, is not less than ﬁve hundred rupees. 'Paragraph 5.88. '-'Paragraph 6. I0. ing to the prescribed rules; or (c) if no kindred are left, then to the Government. The most usual cases under the last part are of illegitimate persons. Although,
technically, their property goes to Government, it appears that there was practice
in the past of the Crown (now, the State) re-granting the property to certain
relatives, in case of illegitimate persons.'

The Law Commission has not been able to ascertain whether these arrange-
ments still continue. However, social justice requires that the need for such
arrangements should be considered in the context of section 34.'

(34) There is also a point of drafting pertaining to section 34. The corres-
ponding provision in the Hindu Succession Act is more precise than the provi-
sion inthe section 34 of Indian Succession Act. The Hindu Succession Act (sec-
tion 29) provides that the Government takes the property subject to all the obli-
gations of the heir. It is recommended that in section 34, for the last six words
"it shall . - . . . . . . .. the Government", the words "such property shall devolve
on the Government; and the Government shall take the property subject to all
the obligations and libabilities to which an heir would have been subject," should

be substituted.'

(35) Even in cases governed by sections 37--39, there should be succes-
sion per stripes, as that would be more in consonance with the general sense of
the community. Section 37 should be revised as under, to carry out this object. Revised section 37

"37. Where the intestate has left surviving him a child or children, but no
more remote lineal descendant through a deceased child, the property shall--- (a) belong to his surviving child, if there is only one, or (b) shall be divided among all his surviving children as if section 40
applied to the case."'
"child includes- (a) an adopted child, in the case of any one whose personal law permits
adoption. (b) an illegidmate child."'

'Paragraphs 9.5. and 9.6 and 9.8. 'Paragraph 9.8. 'Paragraph 9.1]. 'Paragraph 9.12. 'Paragraph 9.13. 'Paragraph 9.17. 'Paragraph 8.20. (38) Section 38 should be revised as recommended in the Report.'

(39) With reference to sections 43-46, even where brothers and sisters
of the intestate are alive, the father and mother should take the property (sharing
equally) and if only one of them surﬁves, he or she should take the whole.'

(40) In regard to section 47, it should be made clear that the section does
not apply unless there is at least one brother or sister alive." (41) With reference to section 48, which provides that where the intestate
has left neither lineal descendant nor parents, nor brother, nor sister, the pro-
perty of the intestate shall be divided equally among relatives in the nearest
degree of kindred to the deceased, an Explanation should be added to the effect
that where such relatives are children or brothers or sisters of the intestate, they
shall take per stirpes. Illustration (iv) to section 48 should also be revised,

accordingly.'

(42) Section 51 (succession to a male Parsi---division of his property among
his widow, children, and parents) gives to the sons double the share of the
daughters. This discrimination against women should be removed? (43) Similarly, in sections 54(d) and 55, the present provision giving
males double the share of each female standing in the same degree of propinquity
should be amended, so as to remove the disparity of shares based solely on sex.'

(44) In section 59 (competence to make a will), the ﬁrst paragraph should
be revised, so as to provide that a person may, by will, dispose of not only his
property, but also any propeity over which he has a disposing power which he
can exercise by will.'

(45). To section 59, the following proviso should be added :-- (:1) a new section. to be inserted in the lndian Succession Act, as section

59A; or (b) two new sections. in be inserted 'n the lndinn .'.un:i_-3y .»'_c:;_ 1912.. as

sections 49A and 71A, intended to provide for the powers of the
High Court and the district court, respectively, on the subject." 'Paragraph 8.24. 'Paragraph 8.29. ing for the testator is competent to attest the will under clause (c) of the section.'

(51) As a consequential change, it should also be made clear that the p1_-o--
visions of clause (c) of section 63 are subject to those of clause (a.) and of the
Explanation thereto (which is to be added as above).°

(52) In section 64, which deals with documents incorporated in will by
reference, it should be made clear that the document must not only be acutally
in existence, but must be also described (in the will) as actually, in existence.'

(53) Section 65 should be extended to Hindus etc. by amending the Third
Schedule.'

(54) In Section 65, it should further be provided that a person otherwise
competent to make a privileged will can do so, whether or not he has completed
the age of eighteen years.'

(55) A new section 65A should be inserted, to confer, on persons affected
by natural calamities, the right to make a privileged will, where there is a reasona-
ble apprehension of death." (56) If the provisions of the Act relating to privileged wills are to be
extended to persons affected by calamity (by inserting section 65A) as recom-
mended above, section 66 will also require consequential changes." (57) On the insertion of a new section (as recommended above) to extend
the facility of "privilged wills" to persons alfected by natural calamity, (proposed
new section 65A) consequential changes will become necessary in section 66(2),
caluses (e), (f) and (g). In these clauses, the words "soldier, sailor or airman
should be replaced by the words" the person entitled to make a privileged will." (58) Section 67 should be amended by inserting the following exception
in the section, before the Explanation :-- 'Paragraphs 12.27 and 12.28. 'Paragraph 12.29. 'Paragraph 12.52. 'Paragraphs 13.9 and 13.21. 'Paragraph 13.23. 'Paragraph 13.26. 'Paragraphs 13.4 and 14.11. 'Paragraph 14.12. ses, to whom no such beneﬁt as is described in this section is given by
the will."' . (59) Section 69 should be revised as under :-- section (1) shall not apply to the extent to which there is inconsistency
between the two."" tion or annulment of marriage."' ' - (62) The following new section is recommended to be inserted as section - 2
"70A. Where, after the execution of the will by a Hindu testator who has,
in the will, purported to deal with co-parcenary property, a son is born to
that testator, the will shall stand revoked as regards all property, unless the

will contains an express provision indicating a contrary intention." '

(63) The present structure of section 72 being complicated, its main para-
graph should be re-structured, as recommended in the Report.' . CONSTRUCTION OF WILLS--SECTIONS 74----1l1. (64) To section 89, an Explanation (regarding bequests for Dharma) should»
be added on the lines of section 10 , Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950.'

(65) The various rules as to construction of will, contained in section 99
are intended to be applicable only if a diﬁerent intention is not disclosed. This
should be made clear by inserting, in section 99, at an appropriate place, in the
words "in the absence of any intention to the contrary."'

'Paragraph 15.16. 'Paragraph 15 .23. (67) But if the illustration is to be retained at all,_ then illustrations (vii)
and (viii) should be amended, so as to incorporate the reasoning on which the
View taken in the illustrations is based. In illustration (vii), the words "since it
would be against public policy" should be added at the end, And, in illustration (viii), the words "since there is evidence of contrary intention" could be added

at the end for the purpose." (68) Section 100 should be suitably re-drafted so as to refer to a reputation
or relationship, but not necessarily a reputation of legitimacy. The object could
be achieved by substituting, in place of the words "being such relative", the
words "being a child, son or daughter ortotherwise standing in the relationship

in question". Revised section 100 would then' read thus--- (This recommendation to be carried out, only if the alternative recommenda-
tion to revise the section is not accepted).'

(69) Section 100, illustration (Vii), is anachronistic. Both from the juristic
point of view and on wider considerations of social justice, a bequest to an illegiti-
mate child, whether already begotten or otherwise, should not be regarded as
against public policy. In the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 there is no provision
corresponding "to section 100, illustration (vii), as regards gifts during life time -aiid'there' is no reason for retaining any such provision in the law of testamentary
successioiil'

(70) Illegitimate children should be regarded as prima facie included with-
inithe scope of reationship, in the absence of expression of a contrary intention.
If a person begets an illegitimate child, it would not, in general, be unrealistic
to presume that he would, in making a testamentary disposition, like to beneﬁt
his illegitimate children as well. There will still remain scope for the expres-
sion of acontrary intention by him. But, subject to this safeguard, it would be
proper, as a matter of social justice, to reverse the present rule, which was
framed at a time when the notions of society on the subject under consideration
were much more rigid than they are now. Section 100 should be revised and
new section 100A should be inserted for the purpose, as recommended in the

. Report? (71) In regard to section 105, illustration (vi), dealing with the situa-
tion of _"co'mmorients" (deaths of two or more persons in a common disaster),
attention is drawn to the Law Commission's recommendation in its Report on
tlxie. Evidence Act .'

If the does not, in any manner, indicate an intention that the two persons
are to take it jointly, the presumption should be in favour of a tenancy in common. 'Paragraphs 16.45,' 16.47 and 16.53. 9Paragraph 16.64. (75) New section 118A should be inserted in the Act as follows :-- It is recommended that the following proviso should be added to section 124,
for the purpose. '

"Provided that : formity with the above recommendation. The object could be achieved by re-
framing the last eleven words of the illustration, as under' :- The second illustration to section 124 should also be revised, as recom-
mended in the Report." (79) Under section 127, a bequest upon a condition, the fulﬁlment of
which would be contrary to law or to morality, is void. This section should be
amended by adding the words "or to public policy" after the words "or
morality." (80) Section 136 should be revised as recommended in the Report, the ob-
ject being to provide that where the testator has not prescribed a particplar
time limit for the performance of a condition attached to a be uest, the donee
should have his (donee's) entire lifetime for performing the con tion.'

(81) Section 137 should be amended by adding, after the word "fraud",
the words "of a person who would be directly beneﬁtted by non-performance of
the condition." 7

Bequests with directions etc.---sections 138-144

(82) In sections 138-139, the present word "fund" would seem to suggest
that the sections are intended to apply only to movable property. But the sections
should apply to all types of property and, accordingly, the word "fund" should
be replaced by the word "property", with necessary consequential change'. Legacies to executors----section 141

(83) Section 141 (legacy to executors) should be made subject to an inten-
tion to the contrary, by adding, at the end, the words "unless a different intention
appears from the will."'

Demonstrative legacies---section 151
(84) A recommendation is made to combine sections 151 and 157.'

Adempti0n---sections 152--l66

(85) Conversion of an asset by legislative action falls within section 163, and
is outside section 152. The cause should be excluded from section 152 by
express words' and it is recommended that in section 152, after the words,
"has been converted into property of a different kind", the words "by act of
parties" should be inserted for the purpose.'

(86) Further, section 152 should be made subject to a different intention." The will should govern the converted property as it would have governed
the original property, if such an intention can be inferred." (87) The situations in which sections 155 and 156 operate are distinct from
each other and this should be brought out by a suitable re--casting of the section.
There is also need to introduce symmetry between the two sections. The two
sections should, therefore, be re-cast, as recommended in the Report." 'Paragraph 20.16. 'Paragraph 20.7. _(89) In regard to section 162, it should be made clear that the section
applies to "speciﬁc bequests". For this purpose, the section should be amended by
substituting, for the words "the thing bequeathed", the words "the thing speciﬁ-
cally bequeathed'? 2

Payment of liability in respect of subject of bequest: Sections 1167----172
(90) Section 170 (speciﬁc bequest of stock in a company) should be

suitably amended, so as to add an express mention of shares in a company with: a fund is set apart for the payment of an annuity, there arises a conllict between
the two sections. To remove the conﬂict, there should be excluded, 'from section

174, cases where the annuity is for life only, or where it otherwise appears that»

it is not intended to be perpetual. Re-drafts of the two sections on the above
basis are recommended'. Legacies to creditors and portioners

\

(93) A new section 177A should be inserted as under, to deal with bequests
to debtors :-- Election :--Sections 180--190

(94) The law relating to election in India, as incorporated in section 180',
insists on forfeiture and is unduly harsh. Section 180 (the principal section on
the subject) should be revised as under' :-- (95) Section 181 should also be deleted, if section 180 is deleted as re- commended above, since, after the proposed amendment of section 180, there

will be no "relinquishment" by the legatee.' 96. In section 182 the reference to section 181 should be deleted, if section
181 is deleted as recommended above. Illustration to section 182 will also require
change, if the recommendation to sulgtitute (in section 180) compensationin
place of forfeiture is accepted. I1lustration_ (iv) to section 182 has become obsolete

'Paragraph 26. 12. slia'1ld'b'e codiﬁed by adding, after the word "sgccession" wherever it occurs in
the section, the words "testamentary or intestate"? (99) With reference to section 200 (suit in the name of the curator), it
should be made clear that it is not necessary that the curator must have been
speciﬁcally authorised to institute or defend the suit.' It should also be made
clear, by amending section 200, that it is not necessary for the curator to obtain
a, succession certiﬁcate before instituting a suit to recover the debt.'

Drafts of Explanations 1 and 2, to be added to section 200 on the above
points, are suggested.' '

nepresenuuive title of the deceased--scctions 211 to 216

(100) A special provision is needed to cover shares, in the context of the
grant of letters of administration (section 211). There is also need to cover all
cases of survivorship, in the context of grant of succession certiﬁcate. Accordingly,
an Explanation should be added to section 211, as under :----- quential changes, where necessary, be made in other sections." (103) For carrying out the various points made in the Report with reference
to section 214, insertion of the following Explanations to section' 214 is re-
commended." . (104) To section 218, an Explanation should be added as under :---- E.ypIanation---Where the property of a Hindu undivided coparcenary passes
by surrivorship to the sale surviving coparecener, the sole surviving coparcener
shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed to be a person entitled
to the estate of the person on whose death the property so passes, and shall
accordingly be entitled to apply for letters of administration under this

section?" in itself, is not a good cause for her exclusion." (106) The following new section should be inserted in the Act, as section
222A. (107) Section 223 should be re-drafted as under :-- tent to accept probate'." (108) To section 241, an Explanation should be added to the effect tl;at-- (a) section 241 will apply also where the case falls under section 228; and (b) if the case falls under section 228, a copy of the will is to suﬂice and
the original will need not be produced.'

(109) In view of that has been stated above section 223, section 236
sbuld be revised as follows :----- Waragraph 35. 7. 'Paragraph 35.9. 'Paragraph 35.16. 'Paragraph 35.21. 'Paragraph 35.3]. (c) to any corporation other than a company, if it is not legally compe-
tent to accept letters of administration'. (110) Sections 237 and 238 should be re-drafted, and new sections 238A
and 238B should be inserted, as follows" :-- 111. Section 241 should be revised as follows 2

"24l. When any executor is absent from the State in which application is
made, and» there is no executor within the State willing to act, letters of adminis-
tration, with the will annexed, may be granted to the attorney or agent of the
absent executor, for the use and beneﬁt of his principal, limited until he shall
obtain probate or letters of administration granted to himself. Exception ; Nothing in this section applies to a case falling within the pro-
visionsof section 273. Explanation: Where the grant is by the High Court, it is not necessary
that the attorney or agent should be residing within the State, provided he
resides within Indiaa." (112) Below section 244, the following Explanation should be inserted' :-- (113) Section 245 deals with the case dealt with in section 244 and, is indeed,
a kind of Explanation to that section. This should be brought out by adding in
that section, after the words, "the grant", the words and ﬁgures "under section
244".'

(114) Section 246 should be revised as follows (to remove overlapping with
section 244). cable in the case of the deceased, is a minor or a lunatic,

letters of administration, with or without the will annexed, as the case may
be, shall be granted to the person to whom the care of his estate has been
committed by competent authority, or, if there is no such person, to such

'Paragraph 35.40. 9Paragraph 36. 10. ( 116) To section 255, an Exception should be added as under" :-- (a) the person to whom. the grant of probate or letters of administration
is to be made is the sole legatee or the sole heir of the deceased, or (b) where, for reasons to be reconded; 'the Court in the circumstances
of the case thinks it proper to dispense with suchbond or 'sureties, as
the.case may be."'

(_ 120) From section 306, the exception for assault and other personal injuries
not causing death should be removed.' 1

(121) From section 306 (survival or causes of action after death), the
provision for non~surviva1 of 'proceedings for defamation should also be deleted.'

"(I22)" Section 306 should apply to other persons (besides executors_or~

administrators), who represent the estate of a deceased, such as heirs." 'Paragraph 36.24. 'Paragraph 36. 28. 'Paragraph 36.40. , 'Section 250 may require consequential change. (124) If, from section 306, the words excluding "personal injuries" are
not deleted (as recommended above), then the expression "personal injury" should
be deﬁned as recommended, and the expression "representative" should also
be added in the section. The amendment should deﬁne 'personal injury' as (i)
including any disease and any impairment of a person's physical or mental condition,
and (ii) excluding injury caused by malicious prosecution. For the purpose, an appropriate Explanation could be added to 306.'
(125) Section 309 should be modiﬁed on the following lines 2

(1) Whether or not the_ will provides for the payment of remuneration to
an executor or administrator, so long as the will does not prohibit such
payment, an executor or administrator shall be entitled to receive or
retain» reasonable commission or agency charges. (2) Unless the will otherwise provides or the court otherwise permits, those
charges shall not be a higher rate than that for the time being ﬁxed
in respect of the Administrator General by or under the Administrator-
General's Act, 1963 .'

(126) From section 310, the case where purchase is sanctioned by the court
should be excluded.' '

(127) Section .311 speaks of a "direction to the contrary", but does not
specify where the direction is "to be contained.' It is recommended that in section
311, it should be made clear that the direction may be either in the will or in
the probate.'

(128) Section 317 should be amended, by addingthe following Exception
to the section' : . 'Paragraph 40. 3!. 'Paragraph 40. 32 . 'Paragraph 40.33. 'Paragraph 41.17. 'Paragraph 41 .30. 'Paragraph 41.30. 'Paragraph 41.36. assent of the executor or the administrator, as the case may be. The section
should be amended by inserting an Explanation on the above lines.'

Also, in illustration (i) to the section, the words "Imperial Bank of 'India" (133) Section 362 needs a Verbal change, namely, the last four words should
read "wasting on the part of the executor" (and not "wasting of the executor"). (134) In section 367, a new sub-section should be inserted, as under :-~- ''(2) Where there has been a grant of administration in ct country other
than the country of domicile and other than India, the executor or adminis-»
rator may, with the permission of the Court, take the some action as he
could have taken if there had been a grant in a country of domicile other
than India; and the provisions-of this section shall, with necessary modi-
ﬁcations, apply to the case as they apply if there had been a grant in a
country of--domicfle Other than India." Succession Certiﬁcates--Sections 370 to 390

(135) Section 370 bans the grant of succession ceriﬁcate, inter alia, in cases
where letters of administration ( or probate) are mandatory'. Letters of adminis-
tration are mandatory in the case of Christians other than Indian Christians
dying intestate----to mention the most usual situation. The restriction in section
370 is not required, except where probate is mandatory. The bar in section 370
should be limited only to cases where probate is mandatory, In the case of
probate, the will has to be proved and it is understandable that without proof
of the will, payment should not be made on the strength of :1 mere succession
certiﬁcate. But this reasoning does not apply with the same force to letters of
administration, where title is sought to be derived on the basis of a right of
inheritance conferred by law and no formal writing is, in general, to be proved. Accordingly, section 370(1) should be revised' as under :-- (Existing proviso to be' omitted, as a consequential change). (136) There should also be inserted in section 370, a provision for the
grant of succession certiﬁcate on survivorship. By making this amendment, the
legislature would be merely giving recognition to what is already the practice in
some part of India. Although a certiﬁcate, issued to certify survivorship, should
be, strictly speaking, described as a "Survivorship certiﬁcate", it is not proposed
to change the present nomenclature ("Succession Certiﬁcate"), since it has,
by now, become familiar to all concerned. Accordingly, the following proviso should be added to section 370 (1) : "371. The District Judge within whose jurisdiction the deceased, at the
time of his death, had a fixed place of abode, or any property, movable or
immovable, may grant a certiﬁcate under this Part'.''

1Paragraph 42. 3. 'Paragraph 42 . 2, footnote. 'Paragraph 46.8. 'Section 212(1). 'Paragraphs 48.4 and 48.5. 'Paragraphs 48.6 and 48 . 8. 'Paragraphs 48.13 and 48.17. (138) To section 372, an Explanation should be inserted below :- (139) In section 379, a new sub-section should be inserted as follows' 1-- (140) It is also recommended that the provisions of sub-section (3) of section
379 should be made subject to those of new sub-section (4), which is proposed
to be inserted, as above, in section 379. Section 379 (3) should, therefore, begin as follows :~-- (141) New section 386A should be inserted, as recommended, to provide
the facility of succession certiﬁcate to properties other than debts'

Succession by homicide (proposed section 390-A)

(142) A new section 390A should be inserted, disqualifying a person who
commits culpable homicide, or abets its commission, from inheriting, or from
taking as a legatee,---- (a) the property of the person whose death is so caused; or (b) any other property in furtherance of the succession to which he or
she committed or abetted the commission of such homicide. The new section will not apply to persons to whom section 25 of the Hindu
Succession Act, 1955, applies.'

Miscellaneous provisions (section 391) and Schedules: 'Paragraph 48.23. 'Paragraph 48. 35.