(d) advise his client to comply with the provisions of the Act,
 other allied Acts and the rules and regulations thereof, and in case
 of non-compliance, shall bring the matter to the notice of the
 Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of
 Customs, as the case may be; (e) exercise due diligence to ascertain the correctness of any
 information which he imparts to a client with reference to any
 work related to clearance of cargo or baggage; Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023

 ................................................................................................
 ...... (n) verify correctness of Importer Exporter Code (IEC) number,
 Goods and Services Tax Identification Number (GSTIN), identity
 of his client and functioning of his client at the declared address
 by using reliable, independent, authentic documents, data or
 information;.................‖ 11. At the outset, it needs to be noted that the appellant had filed

the documents of the exporter, who had exported under claim for

drawback, RoDTEP/RoSCTL and not IGST, for which the said Analytics

Report had been issued. 12. We will now examine the violations as per the allegations made

in the impugned order. A violation of Regulation 10(d) of the CBLR,

2018 involves a customs broker failing to file bills of entry based on

accurate documents, failing to advise importers on proper declaration

and duty payment, or failing to inform customs authorities about any

doubts or concerns. Essentially, it relates to a Custom broker's

negligence in ensuring accurate and complete documentation for

customs clearance. In the instant case, we note that the appellant was

engaged in filing the export related documents of the exporter, which

were cleared by the Customs authorities at the relevant time. There is

no evidence adduced by the Department that incorrect documents

were filed. The learned counsel has submitted that the appellant had

obtained the KYC documents and conducted the verification as

required. According to the Revenue, the appellant's contention that

they had met the Proprietor of the exporter firm M/s Ariction

Overseas, Sh Dheeraj has been contradicted by the exporter who

submitted that his documents were obtained fraudulently. Apart from 12 Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023

the said statement of Shri Dheeraj, there nothing on record to

substantiate his contention. The learned authorized representative has

relied upon the decision of the Patna High Court in the case of

Bhaskar Logistics in this context. However, apart from a mere

statement of the exporter Shri Dheeraj, and FIR filed consequent to

the initiation of investigations cannot be accepted as a true

representation of the events as there is no concurrent corroborative

evidence which substantiates the claim of the exporter of having been

defrauded. It is quite possible that this statement and the FIR was an

afterthought, consequent to the initiation of investigations. The facts

are that the appellant filed the customs documents for the instant

exporter and the said documents were cleared by the Customs

authorities in the year 2021. After a gap of 2 years, the said exporter

was found to be non-existent at the address, during a verification. This

in no way establishes that the said exporter was not available in this

address at the time of exports. No evidence has been led by the

Department to establish that the exporter was non-existent at the time

of the exports. 13. Consequently, we hold that this cannot be treated as a violation

of the appellant under Regulation 10(d) of the CBLR, 2018. 14. A violation of Regulation 10(e) of the CBLR, 2018 generally

means a failure to exercise due diligence in verifying the correctness of

information provided to a client related to customs clearance. This

could involve not properly verifying the client's documents, credentials,

or the accuracy of information shared about the cargo. In this context,

it is an admitted fact that the appellant was in possession of the

required KYC documents at the time of customs clearance of the 13 Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023

subject goods. It has been submitted that all due diligence as required

under the CBLR, 2018 and Circular No. 02/2018-Customs dated

12.01.2018 read with Circular No. 09/2010-Customs dated 8.04.2010.

The said Customs authorities did not raise any objection at the time of

any clearance of the said goods. No mis-declaration or under valuation

of the goods has been reported at the time of its clearance for export.

Further, we note that there is no evidence as to what wrong

information was provided by the appellant, in their capacity as

customs broker to the Department or the exporter. Consequently, we

hold that the violation of said regulations is not established. 15. We note that a violation of Regulation 10(n) of the CBLR, 2018

typically occurs when a customs broker fails to verify the identity of

their client using reliable, independent, and authentic documents,

data, or information. This means the broker needs to be certain about

who their client is and ensure they are not dealing with a fictitious

entity. In this context, we note that the learned counsel has submitted

that due verification was carried out by the appellant. Learned

authorized representative has refuted this claim stating that the GSTN

of the exporter was issued for Sarita Vihar address whereas the IEC

was issued for Narela address. It has also been submitted that the

GSTN was cancelled suo-moto by the exporter on 05.07.2021. In this

context, the learned authorized representative has relied on the

decisions of Supreme Court that ‗fraud' vitiates everything. However,

we are unable to appreciate this contention as there is no evidence of

any fraud committed by the appellant. We note that as per the

Circulars supra, two documents, one for proof of identity and other for

proof of address are required for KYC verification, whereas in case of 14 Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023

individuals, if any one document listed in the Board Circular No.

9/2010-Cus dated 08.04.2010 containing both proof of identity and

proof of addresses, the same would suffice for the purposes of KYC

verification. Aadhaar card had also been recognised as one of the

documents for individuals. In the instant case, it is on record that IEC,

GSTIN Aadhar card, Rent Agreement and PAN of the exporter were

taken by the appellant. There is no allegation that these documents

are forged or fake. Verification of these government issued documents

did not throw up any anamoly. Consequently, the allegation that the

appellant committed fraud does not stand. In this context, we find

support in the decision in M/s Perfect Cargo & Logistics Vs.

Principal Commissioner of Customs (Airport & General), New

Delhi15 , wherein the Tribunal had decided the issue of KYC verification

of the importer/exporter by the Customs broker and the requirements

specified in the CBLR, 2018. 16. We also take note of judgment of the High Court of Delhi in Kunal Travels (Cargo) Vs. Principal Commissioner of Customs

(I&G), IGI Airport, New Delhi16 ,wherein the Court held that the

appellants CB is not an officer of Customs who would have an

expertise to identify mis-declaration of goods. The relevant portion of

the said judgement is extracted below: 16.1 From the above order of the Tribunal and on the basis of the

factual matrix of the present case, particularly when the appellants CB

had handled the export consignments in the year 2021 without any

query raised by the Customs authorities, it cannot be said that they

had violated Regulation 10(n) ibid. 16 2017 (354) E.L.T. 447 (Del.) 16 Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023 17. Merely based on the NCTC, DGARM report, the Customs

authorities have found it appropriate to deprive the appellant and its

employees of their livelihood. Such a harsh action is to be initiated

only when there are serious violations by the CB. Similar observations

have been made by the coordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Souparnika Shipping Services vs Pr. Commissioner of Customs vide Final Order Nos. 40019-40020 / 2024 dated 05.01.2024

wherein the Tribunal held as follows:- However, given the 14 C/40199&40248/2020 factual finding

that the CHA was not aware of the misuse of the G cards (and

thus, also unaware of the contents being smuggled), no

additional blame can be heaped upon the CHA on that count

alone. Rather, the only proved infraction on record is of the

issuance of G cards to non-employees, as opposed to the

active facilitation of any infraction, or any other violation of

the CHA Regulations, whether gross or otherwise. Neither

have any such allegations been raised as to the past conduct

of the appellant, from the time the license was granted in

January, 1996. Equally, it is important to note that the

appellant has - as of today - been unable to work the license

for 8 years, and thus been penalized in this manner. This is

not to say that the trust operating between the Customs

Authorities and the CHA is to be taken lightly, or that

violations of the CHA Regulations should not be dealt with

sternly. A penalty must be imposed. At the same time, the

penalty must - as in any ordered system - be proportional to

the violation. Just as the law abhors impunity for infractions, it

cautions against a disproportionate penalty. Neither extreme is

to be encouraged. In this case, in view of the absence of any

mens rea, the violation concerns the provision of G cards to

two individuals and that alone. A penalty of revocation of

license for this contravention of the CHA Regulations unjustly 18 Customs Appeal No. 55794 Of 2023

 restricts the appellant's ability to engage in the business of the

 CHA for his entire lifetime. As importantly, it skews the

 proportionality doctrine, substantially lowering the bar for

 revocation as a permissible penalty, especially given the dire

 civil consequences that follow. On the other hand, the minority

 Opinion of the CESTAT, delivered by the Judicial Member,

 correctly appreciates the balance of relevant factors, i.e.

 knowledge/mens rea, gravity of the infraction, the stringency

 of the penalty of revocation, the fact that the appellant has

 already been unable to work his license for a period of 6 years

 (now 8 years), and accordingly sets aside the order of the

 Commissioner dated 24-1-2005." (Emphasis supplied) 18. Appreciating the above judicial precedents and having regard to

the facts of the appeal, we are of the view that revocation of Customs

Brokers License is too harsh a punishment which is bound to affect the

livelihood of the Customs Broker and his employees. 19. In view of the above discussions, the appeal is allowed and the

impugned order is set aside with consequential relief to the appellant. (Order pronounced in the open Court on 14.05.2025)

 (JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA)
 PRESIDENT

 (HEMAMBIKA R. PRIYA)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
G.Y.