1. The appellant filed an application under the Right to Information Act,
2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) State
Bank of India, Kolkata, West Bengal. The appellant seeking information is as
under:- 2. The CPIO did not reply within reasonable time period
 period.Being
 Being dissatisfied
with the same, the appellant has filefiled first appeal dated 20-0101-2020and
requested that the information should be provided to her.Then
 Then the CPIO vide Page 2 of 9 letter dated 05-02-2020 has given reply to the appellant. No order of FAA is
placed on record. She has filed a second appeal before the Commission on the
ground that information sought has not been provided to her and requested to
direct the respondent to provide complete and correct information. Hearing: 3. The appellant along with her Representative attended the hearing through
video-conferencing. The respondent, Shri Prashant Kumar Bera, CPIO/Regional
Manager attended the hearing through video-conferencing. Shri Mohim Garg,
Representative of CPIO/ Asst. General Manager (Legal), O/o SBI Card, New
Delhi attended the hearing in person. 4. Both the parties submitted their written submissions and the same has
been taken on record. 5. The representative of the appellant reiterated the contents of the RTI
Application and submitted that in complete information has been provided to
the appellant by the respondent on her RTI application dated 30.11.2019. 6. Shri Prashant Kumar Bera, O/o SBI, Kolkata submitted that vide their
letter dated 05.02.2020, they have transferred the RTI Application to the office
of SBI Card as the queries sought by the appellant is related their office. 7. Shri Mohim Garg, O/o SBI Card, New Delhi submitted thatSBI card is
not a public authority as of now under RTI Act . Also, SBI Card is a separate
and distinct legal entity from SBI. Since the respondent is not a public authority
under RTI Act, 2005 ; however, they have treated the application of the
customers as customer grievance and answer the same in relation to the
grievance pertaining to their card account. Accordingly, the query of the
appellant was treated as such and the reply dated 16.01.2020 was sent to the
appellant. Decision: 8. The Commission, after hearing the submissions of both the parties and
after perusal of records, observes that the appellant has sought action taken on
her complaint dated 08.04.2019 filed before SBI Credit Card, Kolkata Head
Office and other issues related thereto. The appellant has contended that the SBI Page 3 of 9 Card is utilizing the reputation of SBI and not adhering the responsibility to
provide the information to the appellant. The respondent has contended that the
information sought pertains to SBI Card which is a separate legal entity. As per
the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005 an applicant can seek information which is
held in material form by a public authority. Since the desired information is not
related to the respondent public authority, therefore the information sought
cannot be provided to the appellant. 9. The Commission observes that the appellant in her RTI Application has
specifically sought the phone no. from which the request for the OTP for
transaction of Rs. 30,000/- under the Credit Card no. 4377487817640226 was
complied with. In this regard, the Commission is of the view that this point is
being escaped and the appellant was trying to prove if such OTP is sent on
mobile, fraud could have been avoided. It is very unfortunate that majority of
cases are being listed before the Commission against SBI Card complaining that
the applicants are not able to receive information from the SBI Card.
Unfortunately the Commission does not have authority to direct the SBI Card
being a separate entity from SBI but from the cases listed before the
Commission, it is amply clear that grievance/ redressal mechanism of the SBI
Card is inefficient. 10. Moreover, in this very case, the CPIO, O/o SBI, Kolkata has not taken
plea that SBI Card is a separate entity instead they preferred to obtain
information from the SBI Card. Therefore, the Commission deems it fit to direct
the CPIO, O/o SBI, Kolkata to obtain information sought on all the points,
categorically on the issue whether OTP was sent on the Mobile nos. as per
transaction records and provide the same to the appellant considering that SBI
has a dominant position in SBI Cards. 11. Further, the Commission takes into account that the same issue is being
underlined in multiple cases wherein the people are taking the SBI Credit Cards
& Payment Services Ltd., to be an integral part of the SBI Bank and put their
faith upon its credibility as the said cards are being issued with the help of
Manager/ staff from the Branch offices of the SBI Bank. Thus the question
before the Commission is that as the SBI Cards & Payment Services Ltd., is not
a part of the SBI Bank it has to be amply clarified to public at large and Page 4 of 9 publicized adequately even at branch level so that public takes a considered
decision while obtaining credit card from them . 12. In this regard the Commission would like to draw the attention of
respondent towards the definition of "public authority" as mentioned under section 2(h) of the RTI Act, 2005, which reads as under: 13. Further, the Commission also referred to the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in DAV College Trust and Management Society V.
Director of Public Instruction, CIVIL APPEAL NO. 9828 OF 2013, wherein
it was held as under: 17. We have no doubt in our mind that the bodies and NGOs mentioned
in sub clauses (i) and (ii) in the second part of the definition are in
addition to the four categories mentioned in clauses (a) to (d). Clauses (a) to (d) cover only those bodies etc., which have been established or
constituted in the four manners prescribed therein. By adding an
inclusive clause in the definition, Parliament intended to add two more
categories, the first being in subclause (i), which relates to bodies which
are owned, controlled or substantially financed by the appropriate
Government. These can be bodies which may not have been constituted
by or under the Constitution, by an Act of Parliament or State Legislature
or by a notification. Any body which is owned, controlled or substantially
financed by the Government, would be a public authority.
A perusal of the definition of 'public authority' shows that 'public
authority' would mean any authority or body or institution established
or constituted apart from other things by the notification issued by an
order made by the appropriate Government. It is to include even
anybody owned, controlled, or substantially financed or non-
Government Organization substantially financed directly or indirectly
by the funds provided by the appropriate Government. It is undisputed
that the petitioners are receiving substantially grant-in-aid from the
Chandigarh Administration. Once a body is substantially financed by the
Government, the functions of such body partake the character of public
authority'. The definition of expression 'public authority' itself shows Page 6 of 9 that 'public authority' would include any organization body owned,
 controlled, or substantially financed directly or indirectly by funds
 provided by the Government or even the non-government organization
 which is substantially financed. The petitioner has claimed that they are
 getting only 45% grant-in-aid after admitting that initially the grant-in-
 aid paid to them was to the extent of 95%. If on account of policy of the
 Government the grant-in-aid to the extent of 95% which was given
 initially allowing the petitioner to build up its own infrastructure and
 reducing the grant-in-aid later would not result into an argument that no
 substantial grant-in-aid is received and therefore it could not be regarded
 as 'public authority'. Therefore, we do not find any substance in the
 stance taken by the petitioner that it is not a 'public authority'." 14. The Commission further takes into consideration the previous decision of
CIC, relied upon by the appellant in Sh. Girish Kpohle vs. SBI, Mumbai dated
16.01.2015, wherein the Commission placed its reliance upon the judgment of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in WP (C) No. 7498/2007 (SBI
(SBI Cards and Payments Services Pvt. Ltd.vs. Shri Arun Kumar Verma & Or s) dated July 12, 2010, wherein it was held as under: 15. Since most of the customers of SBI Bank are under the impression that
the SBI Cards is an integral part of SBI Bank, it becomes incumbent upon the
respondent Bank to disclose its equation with SBI cards in a larger public
interest under the provisions of RTI Act, 2005 . In this regard, the Commission
would like to draw the attention of the Respondent towards the provisions of Page 7 of 9 Section 4 of the RTI Act, 2005. In order to protect the larger public interest, the
decision which is made to protect the interest of public at large should also be
voluntarily disclosed under section 4 of the Act. 16. In this regards the Commission observes that an open government, which
is the cherished objective of the RTI Act , can be realized only if all public
offices comply with proactive disclosure norms. Section 4(2) of the RTI Act
mandates every public authority to provide as much information suo-motu to the
public at regular intervals through various means of communications, including
the Internet, so that the public need not resort to the use of RTI Act . 17. Therefore, in view of the above, the Commission suggests that the
Chairman and the Managing Director, SBI Bank should look into the matter that
since the cards are widely being issued with the help of their Bank and as both
the SBI Bank and SBI cards are different entities, such disclosure should be
made to general public that it is not a product of SBI. Accordingly, the MD, SBI
should take appropriate steps in this regard under intimation to the Commission.
The respondent is directed to place a copy of this order before the Chairman and
the Managing Director, SBI Bank for appropriate action in the matter. 18. The above said directions should be complied with within 30 days from
the date of receipt of this order 19. With the above observations, the appeal is disposed of. 20. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Neeraj Kumar Gupta (नीरजकु मारगु ा)
 Information Commissioner (सूचनाआयु )

 दनांक / Date : 27-05-2022
Authenticated true copy

(अिभ मािणतस यािपत ित)

S. C. Sharma (एस. सी. शमा ),
Dy. Registrar (उप-पंजीयक),
(011-26105682)
Addresses of the parties: