Limited & Ors. Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Chetan Kumar Date: 2021.03.26 17:40:24 IST Reason: 1 JUDGMENT

Dr Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

This judgment has been divided into the following sections to facilitate analysis: respondent, issued a Request for Qualification and Request for Proposal

(“RFQ/RFP”) for developing a metro rail link from Delhi Metro Sikanderpur Station

on MG Road to NH-8 (“Project No1”). A Consortium Agreement was entered into on

1 December 2008 between IL&FS Rail Limited (“IRL”), IL&FS Transportation

Networks Limited (“ITNL”) and DLF Metro Limited in which IRL was identified as the

lead member of the consortium. HSVP accepted the bid submitted by the

consortium and issued a letter of award of 16 July 2009, subject to the condition that

a concession agreement would be executed within 60 days. Pursuant to the letter of

award, the consortium incorporated the first appellant, Rapid MetroRail Gurgaon

Limited (“RMGL”), under the Companies Act, 1956 (the “Act of 1956”) and

requested HSVP to accept RMGL as the entity which would undertake, fulfill and

exercise the rights of the consortium under the letter of award.

2 On 9 December 2009, HSVP entered into a Concession Agreement with

RMGL for the execution of Project No 1 on a design, build, finance, operate and

transfer basis. HSVP granted a concession to RMGL for a period of 99 years from

the effective date, including the exclusive right, license and authority during the

subsistence of the Concession Agreement to implement and operate Project No 1. 3 PART A

3 In 2012, HSVP issued another RFQ/RFP for developing a metro rail link from

Delhi Metro Sikanderpur Station on MG Road to Sector 56, Gurugram (“Project No

2”). 4 On 25 April 2012, IRL and ITNL entered into a consortium arrangement in the

form of a Memorandum of Understanding, under which IRL was identified as the

lead member of the consortium. The bid submitted by the consortium was accepted

by HSVP, which issued a letter of award on 1 October 2012. Pursuant to the letter of

award, the consortium promoted and incorporated the second appellant, Rapid

MetroRail Gurgaon South Limited (“RMGSL”), which would fulfill the obligations and

exercise the rights of the consortium under the letter of award. Thereafter, a

Concession Agreement was entered into between HSVP and RMGSL for the

execution of Project No 2 on 3 January 2013. The term of the concession was 98

years commencing from the effective date. RMGSL had the exclusive right, license

and authority during the subsistence of the Concession Agreement to implement

and operate Project No 2. 5 RMGL completed Project No 1 on 14 November 2013. RMGSL completed

Project No 2 on 31 March 2017. In the meantime, on 11 January 2014, the Town

and Country Planning Department of the Government of Haryana directed that all

metro projects and projects for Haryana Mass Rapid Transport in the State would be

handled by the first respondent, Haryana Mass Road Transport Corporation Limited

(“HMRTC”). 4 PART A

6 On 17 July 2018, RMGL and RMGSL issued notices to HSVP to cure material

breaches they alleged had been committed under the Concession Agreement.

Responding to the cure notice dated 17 July 2018, HSVP addressed a

communication dated 11 October 2018 to both RMGL and RMGSL.

7 On 1 October 2018, a petition 1 was instituted by the Union of India under Section 241(2) read with Section 242 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act of

2013”) before the Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”)

against Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited (“IL&FS”) and its

Board of Directors (“Board”), on the ground that the affairs of the company and its

subsidiaries were being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest. Both

RMGL and RMGSL form part of the IL&FS group of companies. Acting on the

petition, the NCLT by its order dated 1 October 2018 superseded the existing Board

of IL&FS with a newly constituted Board, which was appointed on the

recommendation of the Union government. The new Board took charge of the affairs

of the IL&FS and was authorised to conduct its business and formulate a road map

for recovery. 8 The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (“NCLAT”) by an order dated

4 February 2019 appointed Mr Justice D K Jain, a former Judge of this Court, to

supervise the resolution process for the IL&FS group of companies. The appellants,

RMGL and RMGSL, were categorized as a "red" entity of the IL&FS group of 1 Company Petition No 3638 of 2018 5 PART A

companies in an affidavit 2 dated 11 February 2019 filed by the Union of India before

the NCLAT. 9 On 7 June 2019, RMGL issued a notice of termination to HSVP seeking to

bring an end to the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009 in terms of

Article 24.5.1, upon the expiry of 90 days from the date of delivery of this termination

notice. A similar termination notice was issued by RMGSL to HSVP, in terms of

Article 32.5.1 of the Concession Agreement dated 3 January 2013. Further, on 7

June 2019, the appellants responded to the letter of HSVP complaining of material

breaches alleged to have been committed by the appellants under their respective

Concession Agreements. 10 On 26 June 2019, RMGL wrote to HSVP intimating that the divestment

requirements contained in Article 25.4 and Article 25.2 of the Concession

Agreement dated 9 December 2009 had already been completed by it. However,

HSVP had failed to fulfill its obligations under Article 25.4 to verify RGML’s

compliance with such divestment requirements. A similar letter was addressed by

RMGSL in the context of the Concession Agreement dated 3 January 2013. On 1

August 2019, RMGL informed HSVP that it had completed the formalities for

handover of Project No 1, and that the Concession Agreement dated 9 December

2009 would stand terminated on the expiry of 90 days from the termination notice.

RMGL asserted that it would stop the operation and maintenance of Project No 1 2 Filed in Company Appeal (AT) No 346 of 2018 6 PART A

after the termination. A similar letter was addressed by RMGSL to HSVP in the

context of the Concession Agreement dated 3 January 2013 and Project No 2.

11 On 8 August 2019, NCLAT issued directions for the entities forming a part of

IL&FS group of companies which had been categorized in the “red” category,

inasmuch as that they had to seek the approval of Justice D K Jain before

alienating, encumbering, transferring or creating third party rights on assets. RMGL

presented a memorandum on 19 August 2019 to Justice D K Jain to seek his

approval for handover of the Project No 1 to HSVP. A similar approval was sought

by RMGSL in the context of Project No 2. 12 On 26 August 2019, the respondents issued a notice of termination to RMGL

under Articles 24.1 and 24.2 of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009.

Terminating the agreement, they directed RMGL to handover Project No 1 to

HMRTC, which in turn would hand it over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (“DMRC”).

A similar notice of termination was issued to RMGSL, coupled with an analogous

direction for handing over Project No 2. 13 On 6 September 2019, Justice D K Jain permitted RMGL to handover

possession and control of Project No 1 to HSVP pursuant to the termination of the

Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009, on or before 9 September 2019.

By a separate order on the same date, RMGSL was permitted to handover

possession and control of Project No 2 by the same date. 7 PART A

14 Further, also on 6 September 2019, the same day as the order of Justice D K

Jain permitting handover, the respondents instituted a Writ Petition 3 under Article 32 of the Constitution before the High Court for the State of Punjab and Haryana

challenging notice of termination dated 7 June 2019 issued by RMGL, inter alia, on

the ground that the period of 90 days shall start from the date of permission, which

had not been yet granted by Justice D K Jain. An interim direction was sought for

the continuance of the operation of Project No 1 by RMGL. Another Writ Petition 4

was instituted to challenge the notice of termination by RMGSL on similar grounds,

and similar interim directions were sought in respect of Project No 2. The

observations of Justice D K Jain, contained in his order dated 6 September 2019, in

respect of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009, were produced

before the High Court, which were as follows: 15 On 6 September 2019, the High Court, while issuing notice, adjourned the

proceedings to 9 September 2019 and directed that until then the operation of the

Rapid Metro Rail by the appellants shall continue on both the lines, till midnight on 9

September 2019. On 9 September 2019, the High Court deferred the hearing to 17

September 2019, with a consequent extension to its interim order as well. The High

Court observed: After lengthy arguments addressed by counsel for the parties,
 the Court has found that the dispute between the parties may
 be resolved by negotiation for which they both would require
 some time and, therefore, the hearing of this case is deferred
 to 17.09.2019 and the order of stay granted on 06.09.2019 is
 also extended till 17.09.2019 till midnight. During the course of hearing, learned senior counsel
 appearing on behalf of the respondent has submitted that with
 the termination of the contract with effect from 09.09.2019,
 the respondent would not act as a concessionaire rather
 would act as an agent. 10 PART A

On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the petitioners
has submitted that the respondent can act as a licensee.

Be that as it may, the question as to whether the respondent
would act for the purpose of operation and management till
17.09.2019 till midnight as a licensee or an agent shall be
decided on the next date of hearing. Learned senior counsel for the respondent has also referred
to the terms and conditions for the purpose of discussion in
the meeting during this period which are also reproduced as
under:- Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners
has submitted that all these issues would be discussed in the
joint meeting of the parties. Till the next date of hearing i.e. 17.09.2019, the respondent
shall operate and manage the Rapid Metro Rail at Gurgaon
on both the lines but subject to reimbursement of the
insurance and operation and maintenance cost by the
petitioners of this period. A copy of this order be given to both the parties under
signatures of Bench Secretary of this Court. To be taken up in the urgent list. A photocopy of this order be placed on the file of other
connected case.” 11 PART A

On 18 September 2019, the following order was passed: He has also submitted that since the petitioners may take
 some time to consider the aforesaid proposals,
 RMGL/RMGSL shall continue its operation and management
 till 20.09.2019 (midnight). 12 PART A

 Adjourned to 20.09.2019. To be shown in the Urgent List. A photocopy of this order be placed in the file of the
 connected case.”

16 In the order of the High Court dated 18 September 2019, there was a specific

reference to the proposals which were made on behalf of the RMGL and RMGSL.

The proposals essentially were that: firstly, RMGL and RMGSL would continue to

operate the rapid metro link for 30 days, during which the 'debt due' as per the

financing documents in terms of their respective Concession Agreements would be

determined by an auditor; and secondly, an undertaking would have to be furnished

by HSVP that on determination of the ‘debt due’ by the auditor, at least 80 per cent

of the amount so determined should be deposited in the Escrow Account in terms of

the Concession Agreements. The respondents HMRTC and HSVP submitted their

response to the proposal which was made by the appellants, which was adverted to

in the earlier order. The response was in the following terms: HMRTC/HSVP are agreeable for the appointment of CAG
subject to full cooperation by RMGL and RMGSL and all
documents and other information pertaining to the ‘debt due’
may be provided to CAG or the auditor so appointed with a
copy to HMRTC and HSVP. (iii) Thirdly, during the transition period the period during
which O&M of the said Metro lines shall be transferred from
RMGL and RMGSL, to DMRC, RMGL & RMGSL have
proposed to act as an agent of the HMRTC and HSVP during
the said period. In this respect it is stated that it will lead to
further complications. HMRTC and HSVP have transferred
the amount of insurances and the entire control will remain
with the RMGL and RMGSL during this period. RMGL and
RMGSL shall continue their O&M in terms of concession
agreements and the HMRTC and HSVP have no objection
that RMGL/RMGSL may receive all the revenues arising from
O&M and incur all expenses therefrom itself and pay the
same as is being done currently. In other words the RMGL
and RMGSL remain responsible and liable for all their acts
and deeds with are generally associated with the running of
the said Metro Lines, not limited to only the Gross negligence
and fraud during this time. (iv) Fourthly, the aspect of HMRTC and HSVP undertaking to
deposit the 80% of the debit due in Escrow Account as would
be ascertained by the auditors depends solely on the
outcome of the report as would be submitted by the learned
auditor as shall be appointed by the Hon’ble Court and the
HMRTC and HSVP do hereby commit and confirm to adhere
to the directions as would be passed by the Hon’ble High 14 PART A

 Court or NCLAT or any other court or any other order under
 any other legal proceeding(s) passed by any other competent
 authority in that respect, in terms of the concession contract
 subject to the all other rights and entitlements in favour of
 both the parties arising out of the same. (v) With respect to the submission that RMGL/RMGSL is
 reserving their right to claim differential payment, it is
 apprised that by having stated that, RMGL/RMGSL are trying
 to keep options open to challenge whereby RMGL/RMGSL
 may rekindle this entire matter again after having settled the
 matter in the light of aforesaid statement i.e. after having
 settled the amount which becomes due i.e. 80% of the debt
 due in terms of the definition contained in the concession
 agreement as linked with the total project cost which shall be
 ascertained by an auditor as shall be appointed by the
 Hon’ble Court. As such the same cannot be acceded to since
 this would lead to multiplicity of litigation and could be a
 serious dampener on this entire matter. This matter is being
 settled under the directions of the Hon'ble Court and as such
 the same should be acceptable to you gracefully. (vi) That the HMRTC and HSVP hereto reserves its right to
 make any further submissions in the light of any further
 arguments or facts that may be brought to light in this matter
 during the audit process and course of proceedings.”

17 The proposal submitted by RMGL and RMGSL, which had been responded to

by HSVP and HMRTC, was then deliberated in the High Court. Accordingly, the

following directions were issued by the Division Bench on 20 September 2019,

recording that “a consensus” had been arrived at in the presence of senior officers of

the contesting parties namely, the Managing Director of HMRTC, Chief

Administrator of HSVP, the Managing Director of RMGSL and Director of RMGL.

Thereupon, the directions which were issued by the Division Bench of the High

Court on 20 September 2019 were in the following terms: 15 It is needless to say that the CAG shall complete the
aforesaid audit within a period of 30 days. (iii) It is directed that the arrangements made by this Court
vide order dated 09.09.2019 shall continue till the process of
handing over the operations is complete. (iv) It is further directed that amount of 80% of the debt due,
determined in terms of the audit report of the CAG, shall be 16 PART A

 deposited by the HSVP in the Escrow account which shall be
 subject to any order passed by the NCLAT or any other
 competent statutory authority, within a period of 30 days after
 the receipt of the audit report. (v) It is further directed that rest of the disputes between the
 parties to the lis, arising out of the audit report, shall be
 agitated and decided in the arbitration proceedings, a mode
 provided in the concession contracts. (vi) It is also directed that whatever documents are required
 for the purpose of final transfer of operation and management
 and the assets, the same be given by the RMGL and RMGSL
 to HSVP after the payment of “debt due”.”

This order dated 20 September 2019 was subsequently modified by the High Court

on 4 October 2019, in the following terms: PART A

 Insofar as Clause VI is concerned, Learned Senior Counsel
 appearing on behalf of the applicant(s)-respondent(s), after
 taking instructions from Mr. Rajiv Banga, Managing Director,
 RMGSL and Director RMGL, has submitted that the same be
 read as under:- With the aforesaid clarifications/modifications, present
 applications are hereby disposed of. Further, on the joint
 request, of counsel for the parties, CAG is directed to
 complete the audit, as ordered by this Court, by counting the
 period of 30 days from the date of receipt of certified copy of
 this order.”

18 On 15 October 2019, the High Court allowed an extension of seven days for

implementing the directions issued in its orders dated 20 September 2019 and 4

October 2019. The High Court also corrected its earlier order with the consent of the

contesting parties, in the following terms: 19 In pursuance of the order of the High Court, the Comptroller and Auditor

General of India (“CAG”) presented a statement dated 19 November 2019 in regard

to: 18 The statement has a bearing on the controversy, and is hence extracted in entirety: Deliverables and timelines 1. Within two weeks from date of award, the Auditor shall
 submit Inception Report indicating results of risk
 assessment, audit methodology for conducting audit and
 constraints, if any. 2. Draft Audit Report to be submitted by Auditor within three
 months from date of award of audit. 3. Monthly appraisal meetings to be held to review the audit
 progress and modify the scope of audit, if necessary.”

20 CAG then filed a Civil Miscellaneous Application, together with the

compliance affidavit, before the High Court on 25 June 2020, stating that it had

appointed a firm of chartered accountants, SARC & Associates, to undertake a

financial audit of the debt due between HMRTC/HSVP and the concessionaires,

RMGL/RMGSL. It was noted that in terms of the audit process followed by CAG, the

draft audit report was furnished to both sets of contesting parties by emails dated 19

February 2020 and 24 February 2020. Though the appellants had responded to the 20 PART A

emails, HMRTC had addressed a communication on 27 February 2020 stating that

since the budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha was in progress, it was

difficult at this stage to have consultations and to respond to the draft audit report.

As such, a period of four weeks was sought to respond to the draft. In view of this,

CAG had sought an extension of eight weeks before the High Court by filing an

application, on which notice was issued on 18 March 2020, returnable on 3 April

2020. Thereafter, the lockdown occasioned by Covid-19 ensued. CAG by its further

communications dated 18 March 2020 and 22 April 2020 sought the response of the

HMRTC and the State government by 29 April 2020, a deadline beyond which it was

stated that the final audit report would be prepared. CAG stated before the High

Court that the financial audit of the ‘debt due’ had been performed by the auditors to

whom the work had been assigned in accordance with the “limited scope of audit

which has been submitted in the Court earlier”. CAG stated that the financial audit

had then been finalized, since no response had been received from HMRTC or the

State government. 21 On 18 August 2020, a Civil Miscellaneous Application 5 was filed before the

High Court by RMGL and RMGSL, pursuant to the order of the High Court dated 20

September 2019 in accordance with which the CAG had submitted its report in a

sealed cover to the High Court, wherein the appellants sought a direction for: 22 On 2 September 2020, the High Court issued notice on the application filed by

the appellants and listed it on 10 September 2020. On 28 September 2020, the

sealed cover was opened and the report of the CAG was taken on the record. The

CAG report adverts to the scope of the audit which was undertaken in respect of the

debt due under the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009 with RMGL in

the following extract: 23 In computing the debt due, the audit report notes that the actual cost of the

project was Rs 1,199 crores as against the budgeted cost of Rs 1,088 crores. Since

the cost overrun is to be contributed by the sponsors under the loan agreement, this 22 PART A

would not have any impact on the debt due. Hence for the purpose of computing the

debt due, the project cost was taken as Rs 1,088 crores. In computing the debt due,

the audit report took into consideration: In arriving at the debt due, the conclusion which was drawn in the audit report is

extracted below: PART A

 Table 13- Party-wise break-up of the packages sub- Our report is submitted solely for the purpose set forth in the
 first paragraph of this report. This report relates only for the
 items specified and does not extend to any financial
 statements of RMGSL, taken as a whole.”

24 On 10 October 2020, an affidavit was filed before the High Court by the

Advisor (Planning) HMRTC on behalf of the respondents, objecting to the audit

report. The substance of the objection was that the audit report had not considered

“critical aspects…which shall have a direct bearing” on the amount of the debt due.

In the course of the affidavit, the following circumstances were highlighted: (ii) Notices have been issued by the Income Tax Department against IRL

 indicting that the group companies were shell entities who had raised

 funds through bogus and unsecured loans and invoices; (iii) Serious Fraud and Investigation Office (“SFIO”) had commenced a probe

 into the affairs of the associated companies including IL&FS Financial

 Services (“IFS”) and ITNL; and (iv) Investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 have

 been initiated against IL&FS. In this backdrop, it was urged that the CAG had not audited the accounts of the

concessionaire, RMGL and RMGSL, in accordance with the scope of audit finalised

by them. The auditors, it is stated, had indicated that the amount of the debt due is 27 PART A

subject to the outcome of various matters which can have a significant impact on the

debt due. Hence, it was urged that the audit is “incomplete and inconclusive”.

25 HMRTC tabulated its objections to the audit report in the course of the

affidavit before the High Court. HMRTC has submitted that the scope of audit

finalised by CAG “still remains incomplete and inconclusive”.

26 RMGL submitted its reply in which, firstly, it drew attention to the fact that the

High Court’s order dated 20 September 2019 unequivocally obligates the

respondents herein to pay 80 per cent of the debt due within 30 days of the CAG

report, and no liberty has been granted to challenge the report at this stage.

Secondly, it was urged that despite ample opportunities provided by CAG, HMRTC

had not furnished any objections to the draft report. Thirdly, it was alleged that the

objections filed before the High Court is an attempt to delay the fulfillment of the

obligation to pay 80 per cent of the debt due despite the entirety of Project No 1

having been handed over. A similar reply was also filed by RMGSL.

27 An affidavit was also filed before the High Court by CAG in response to the

objections filed by HMRTC. In its affidavit dated 28 October 2020, CAG noted: (v) Since no response had been received from HMRTC and the State

 government, the report of the financial audit was finalised and submitted in

 a sealed cover to the High Court; 29 PART A (vi) The objection that the audit report was incomplete and inconclusive did not

 hold any substance. In that context, CAG stated: 2) This is a financial audit of debt due and has been
 performed by the auditors M/s, SARC and Associates as per
 the limited scope of audit. The Auditors have reported their
 findings as per the limited scope to arrive at the amount of
 debt due in terms of the applicable Concession Agreements.
 The amount of debt due has been worked out after
 examination of documents as well as verification of records,
 wherever required. 3) The draft report was shared with the HMRTC but it did not
 respond despite repeated requests. So the CAG was
 constrained to finalise the report without the response of
 HMRTC. 4) The issues pointed out like reconstitution of Board of
 Parent Company IL&FS and investigation against its officers
 by Enforcement Directorate, FIR lodged by Economic offence
 wing, issue of income tax notice to group company,
 investigation by SFIO etc. are matter of investigation /
 forensic audit and does not form part of financial audit. It was
 categorically informed to the High Court that issues relating
 criminal acts etc, can be got audited/examined by HMRTC
 through other agencies or through separate forensic audit. 5) Although the debt due has been worked out as on 08
 September 2019, the Report was neither required nor delve
 upon / comment upon which party’s ‘Event of default’
 occurred.” 30 PART A

CAG has thus submitted that the report of the financial audit of the debt due “is

complete and conclusive as per the scope of audit as decided by CAG” and stands

submitted to the High Court on 19 November 2019 on affidavit.

28 On 12 October 2020, the Division Bench of the High Court noted the affidavit

that had been filed by the Advisor (Planning) HMRTC and took the affidavit on

record, while also noting the submission of RMGL and RMGSL that the matter “does

not brook any delay”. The hearing was then adjourned to 16 October 2020 to

facilitate filing of replies. The proceedings then came up before the High Court on 16

December 2020, when on the request of the counsel for the petitioners before the

High Court (HMRTC and the State of Haryana), the hearing was deferred to 8 April

2021. 29 At this stage, the appellants filed Special Leave Petitions challenging orders

dated 12 October 2020 and 16 December 2020 passed by the High Court. The order

of this Court dated 5 February 2021 issuing notice is extracted below: 2 Mr Mukul Rohatgi submitted that the dues which are to be
 deposited in the escrow account will be to the benefit of
 the secured creditors of the petitioners who form a part of
 the Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Limited
 group of companies presently under the management of a
 Board of Directors constituted by the Union Government.
 3 Issue notice, returnable on 22 February 2021. 4 Dasti, in addition, is permitted.”

30 On 22 February 2021, two financial institutions, Andhra Bank and Canara

Bank, were permitted to file their responses. The Special Leave Petitions were listed

thereafter, and have been taken up for final disposal. We have heard Mr Mukul

Rohatgi and Mr Puneet Bali, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

appellants, Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the

respondents and Mr Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of

Andhra Bank and Canara Bank. September 2019 are by consent of parties, the High Court having recorded

 that a consensus had been arrived at in the presence of senior officials of

 the contesting parties; (ii) The appointment of CAG has to be understood in the backdrop of the

 earlier orders of the High Court dated 9 September 2019 and 18 32 PART B

 September 2019, which highlighted the concerns of RMGL and RMGSL

 that in terms of the Concession Agreements between the parties 80 per

 cent of the debt due was required to be deposited as termination payment

 by HSVP; (iii) Responding to these concerns, HMRTC and HSVP had agreed to the

 proposed appointment of an auditor for determination of the debt due, and

 proposed the reference to CAG. HMRTC and HSVP specifically committed

 to complying with the orders that may be passed by the High Court,

 NCLAT or any other legal proceedings; (iv) The Metro Rail Projects, Projects No 1 and Project No 2, which were

 undertaken by RMGL and RMGSL were funded by a consortium of banks

 and finance was made available subject to execution of: PART B (vii) The requirement of depositing 80 per cent of the debt due in an Escrow

 Account is to protect the interest of the banks and financial institutions

 which were involved in funding the Projects; (viii) In pursuance of the order passed by Justice D K Jain, the Projects were

 handed over to HMRTC and the petitioner agreed to run the Metro Rail

 despite the termination in view of the necessity to avert disruption of metro

 services; (ix) The order dated 20 September 2019 was passed by the High Court based

 on consent of parties, under which: The ground that there is an FIR against the IL&FS group of companies

 cannot furnish a valid basis for defeating a contractual obligation to deposit

 80 percent of the debt due in Escrow Account, which has been confirmed

 by the consent order of the High Court. The amount will not be paid over to

 either RMGL/RMGSL but would be deposited in an Escrow Account with

 Andhra bank and Canara bank, which are public financial institutions. The

 amount deposited would abide by the ultimate directions of the NCLT or

 any other statutory authority; and (xiv) No charge sheet has been filed as against one of the companies. 35 PART B

32 Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the

respondents, on the other hand, submitted that: 33 Mr Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Canara

Bank and Andhra Bank, submitted that on the request of RMGSL, the consortium

led by Canara Bank provided facilities in aggregate of Rs 1,500 crores in the form of

a Rupee Term Loan Facility under a Common Loan Agreement dated 26 March

2013. Thereafter, RMGSL also availed the External Commercial Borrower as well as

Derivate Facility. Hence, on the basis of supplementary documents executed on 29

September 2014, a sum of Rs 1,109 crores was availed of by RMGLS from the

Senior Lenders, Rs 391 crores from India Infrastructure Finance Company (UK)

Limited, ECB Lenders (forming part of Senior Debt) as well as USD 30 million from

IndusInd Bank Limited, being the Derivate Facility Lender. As such, an Escrow

Account Agreement dated 2 July 2013, read with Supplementary Agreements dated

15 January 2014 and 24 September 2014, was executed between RMGSL, HSVP

and Canara Bank, under which Canara Bank was appointed as the Escrow Agent. It

was stated that as on 31 July 2019, the lenders of RMGSL had an outstanding claim

of Rs 1651 crores approx. Hence, on termination of the Concession Agreement

dated 3 January 2013 by “HUDA”, now HSVP, under Article 32.4 of the Concession

Agreement dated 3 January 2013, an amount of 80 per cent of the debt due has to

be paid to the lenders of Project No 2. The lenders had filed a reply before Justice D

K Jain stating that they had no objection of the handing over of the assets to 37 PART C

HMRTC, subject to the deposit of the amount due to the lenders in an Escrow

Account. Hence, the debt due having now been determined in terms of the audit

report, it has to be deposited in the Escrow Account maintained by Canara Bank.

Similarly, the consortium led by Andhra Bank provided credit facilities for Project No

1 to RMGL, and maintained a similar Escrow Account. In the affidavit submitted by

Andhra Bank, it was noted that the debt due to all the members of the consortium

led by Andhra Bank was Rs 943 crores approx. 34 It was submitted by both the Banks that the Projects were completed by

utilizing funds from the lenders, who are biggest stakeholders. On the other hand,

HMRTC and HSVP have taken possession of the Projects, and are utilizing the

revenue from DMRC. Supporting the contents of the affidavits filed by Canara Bank

and Andhra Bank, Mr Dhruv Mehta urged that 70 per cent of the Projects’ cost is

comprised within debt. Hence, the deposit of 80 per cent of the debt due amounts

only to 56 per cent of the Projects’ cost. Further, the amount coming to the Escrow

Accounts would be subject to the orders of the NCLAT. It has been submitted that

the amount, upon deposit in Escrow Accounts, will be in the hands of the

nationalized banks which have financed the Projects.

35 The rival submissions will now be considered. Concession Agreements. For the purposes of the discussion, we are referring to the 38 PART C

terms of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009, but similar terms are

also present within Concession Agreement dated 3 January 2013. The expression

‘debt due’ is defined in Article 1.1 of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December

2009 in the following terms: PART C

37 In terms of Article 3.1 , HUDA granted to the concessionaire the exclusive

right, license and authority during the subsistence of the Concession Agreement to

implement the project and the concession over a period of 99 years. Under Article

17.1 , the concessionaire was to provide to HUDA a copy of the financing package

furnished by it to the prospective lenders. As and when the financing package was

agreed upon by the lenders and the Concession Agreement was confirmed by the

signing of the agreed financing package by both the concessionaire and the lenders,

a copy was required to be furnished to HUDA forthwith. Financial closure was to be

completed within six months within the signing of the Concession Agreement, with a

cure period of six months, failing which all rights and claims under the Concession

Agreement were to stand waived. Article 18 provides for an Escrow Account into

which all funds, which constitute the financing package for meeting the capital cost

of the concessionaire, are to be deposited. During the operational period, all fare

and non-fare revenues were also to be deposited exclusively in the Escrow Account

by the concessionaire. Article 18.2.1 provided for the disbursement from the Escrow

Account, which included debt service payments due to the senior lenders. Article 18 insofar as is relevant is extracted below: 18.1 Opening of Escrow Account and Deposits into Escrow
 Account On Financial Close, (in any case not later than 30
 days of financial close) the Concessionaire shall open and
 establish the Escrow Account with a Bank (the “Escrow
 Bank") and ail funds constituting the Financing Package for
 meeting the Concessionaire's capital costs shall be credited
 to such Escrow Account During Operations Period all Fare 40 PART C

and Non-Fare Revenues collected by the Concessionaire
shall be exclusively deposited therein, separately.

18.2 Disbursements from Escrow Account

18.2.1 The Concessionaire shall give, at the time of the
opening of the Escrow Account, irrevocable Instructions by
way of an Escrow Agreement substantially in form set forth in
Schedule ‘F’ (the “Escrow Agreement’) to the Escrow Bank
instructing, inter alia, that the deposits Into the Escrow
Account shall, be appropriated in the following order every
month and if not due in a month then appropriated
proportionately in such month and retained in the Escrow
Account and paid out there from in the month when due
unless otherwise expressly provided in the instruction latter: 18.2.2 The Concessionaire shall not in any manner modify
the order of payment specified in Sub-Article 18.2.1 except
with the prior written approval of HUDA

18.3 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Escrow Agreement and subject to the provisions contained in
Sub-Articles 25.5 and Article 27 , upon Termination of this
Concession Contract, all amounts standing to the credit of the 41 PART C

 Project Escrow Account shall be appropriated and dealt with
 in the following Order: 18.4 The instructions contained in the Escrow Concession
 Contract shall remain in full force and effect until the
 obligations set forth In Sub-Article 18.3 have been
 discharged,”

38 Article 24 provides for termination. Article 24.1.1 sets down events of default

on the part of the concessionaire. According to Article 24.4: 39 Article 24.5.2 provides for the consequences of termination by the

concessionaire, due to a default by HUDA: Article 24.7 which provides for the termination payments reads as follows: 40 Article 30 of the Concession Agreement provides for dispute resolution. Article 30.2 contains an arbitration agreement, which reads as follows: 41 Pursuant to the petition filed under Section 241(2) read with Section 242 of

the Act of 2013 before the NCLT, the Board of IL&FS was superseded on 1 October

2018, with a new Board appointed on the recommendations of the Central

government. On 6 December 2018, an FIR No 253 was registered by the Economic

Offences Wing. As pointed out by the Solicitor General, RMGL and RMGSL were

named as accused nos 21 and 22 in the FIR, the allegation being in respect of the

procuring of fake invoices, as a result of which the cost of projects implemented

were alleged to be higher than those implemented by DMRC, resulting in the rapid

metro link projects at Gurgaon incurring losses. RMGL and RMGSL, which belong

to the IL&FS group of companies, were thus classified as “red entities”. On 4

February 2019, Justice D K Jain was appointed by the NCLT to supervise the

resolution process for the IL&FS group. On 7 June 2019, RMGL issued a notice for

the termination of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009 to HSVP

under Article 24.5.1, with the period of notice being 90 days. A similar notice of

termination was issued by RMGSL in terms of Article 32.5.1 of Concession

Agreement dated 3 January 2013. RMGL and RMGSL addressed communications

on 1 August 2019 to HSVP for completing the handover of the rapid metro link

Projects. On 26 August 2019, HMRTC issued a notice of termination to RMGL in

terms of the Articles 24.1 and 24.2 of the Concession Agreement dated 9 December

2009. A similar notice was issued to RMGSL. In the interim, Justice D K Jain was 44 PART D

moved by RMGL and RMSL to grant his approval to the handing over of possession

of the rapid metro link Projects. By his order dated 6 September 2019, Justice D K

Jain permitted RMGL and RMGSL to handover possession and control of the rapid

metro link Projects to HSVP on or before 9 September 2019. HMRTC and HSVP

then moved the High Court in writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution

seeking: 42 Taking note of the order passed by Justice D K Jain, the High Court by its

order dated 6 September 2019 directed RMGL and RMGSL to continue the

operation of the rapid metro rail till the midnight of 9 September 2019. On 9

September 2019, the High Court observed that the dispute between the parties

would have to be resolved by negotiations, and hence the order of stay, under which

the rapid metro rail projects were to be continued in operation by RMGL and

RMGSL, was continued till midnight of 17 September 2019. From the order of the

High Court dated 9 September 2019, it is evident that RMGL and RMGSL, while 45 PART D

referring to the terms of the proposed discussion which HMRTC/HSVP,

catalogued inter alia: 43 On 18 September 2019, the appellants proposed that they would continue to

operate the metro link Projects until 16 October 2019, during which period the debt

due under the financing documents, in terms of the Concession Agreements, may

be determined by an auditor to be appointed by the High Court. Further, the process

for transfer of the rapid metro link Projects was to be supervised by two former

judges of the High Court. Both the appellants specifically stated that this proposal

was subject to the condition that once the debt due is determined, HSVP must

deposit 80 per cent of the debt due as determined in an Escrow Account in terms of

the Concession Agreement, Escrow Agreement and Substitution Agreement. This

proposal, it was clarified, was made to safeguard the interest of the public sector

lenders of the Projects. Responding to the above proposal of the appellants,

HMRTC and HSVP specifically stated in their written responses that: PART D (ii) As regards the ascertainment of the debt due, this was linked to the definition

 of the expression under Concession Agreements; (iii) HMRTC/HSVP agreed with the proposal of RMGL/RMGSL that an auditor

 may be appointed to ascertain the actual figures, and stated that the CAG

 may be entrusted with the assignment to ascertain financial aspects and

 determining the over invoicing of the Projects; and (iv) The deposit of 80 per cent of the debt due as determined in an Escrow

 Account would depend on the outcome of the report of the auditor, and

 HMRTC and HSVP “commit and confirm to adhere to the directions as would

 be passed by the Hon'ble High Court or NCLAT or any other Court or any

 other order under any other legal proceedings passed by any other competent

 authority” in terms of the Concession Agreements. 44 The above course of events indicates that the entire order which was passed

by the High Court on 20 September 2019 was the outcome of sustained negotiations

which took place between RMGL and RMGSL on the one hand, and HMRTC and

HSVP on the other, commencing from the invocation of the writ jurisdiction under Article 226. Now, it is significant to note that recourse to the proceedings under Article 226 was taken by HMRTC/HSVP, which challenged the termination notice

and sought the continuation of the operation of the rapid metro lines at Gurgaon,

which were under imminent threat of closure, once the notice period expired on 8

September 2019. The narration of events would make it abundantly clear that

initially as a result of the order of stay granted by the High Court on 6 September 47 PART D

2019, and thereafter consequent upon mutual discussions, RMGL/RMGSL agreed

to operate the rapid metro link Projects until 16 October 2019, within which period

the handover to DMRC would take place. Equally, the concerns by RMGL/RMGSL,

as concessionaires, was that in terms of the Concession Agreements, 80 per cent of

the debt due had to be deposited in the Escrow Account in terms of the provisions

contained in Article 24.4 in Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009. All the

parties specifically agreed before the High Court that there would be a reference to

the CAG for conducting an audit for the purpose of determining the debt due. The

High Court by its order dated 20 September 2019, issued directions which were

specifically noted to be emanating from the “consensus...arrived at in the presence

of senior officers of both the parties” namely Mr D Suresh, IAS, Managing Director,

HMRTC, Chief Administrator, HSVP, Mr Rajiv Banga, Managing Director, RMGL

and Director, RMGSL. The consensual order passed by the High Court envisaged

that: 45 Clause (ii) of the directions contained in the High Court’s consent order dated

20 September 2019 makes it abundantly clear that the audit team appointed by

CAG was to conduct a financial audit of the debt due and to examine the scope of

the audit. The next important aspect of the consent order is the time bound process

which was envisaged, with the audit being completed within 30 days and 80 per cent

of the debt due being deposited within 30 days after the receipt of the audit report.

The final aspect which needs to be emphasized is that the rest of the disputes

between the parties arising out of the audit report were to be agitated in arbitration.

46 This would leave no manner of doubt that parties clearly understood that once

the debt due was ascertained in terms of the audit report, 80 per cent would be

deposited by HSVP in the Escrow Account while the rest of the disputes in respect

of the audit report would be governed by arbitration. A time of 30 days was 49 PART D

envisaged for deposit the amount in Escrow Account, upon the receipt of the audit

report. Subsequent to the order dated 20 September 2019, another order was

passed by the High Court on 4 October 2019. Clause (ii) of the earlier order was

substituted. As substituted, it was envisaged that the auditors would also have to

examine the scope of the audit of the debt due suggested by HSVP. Hence, CAG

would also examine the scope of the audit of the debt due suggested by HSVP in

terms of the Concession Agreements. Moreover, it was envisaged that the rest of

the dispute either arising out of the CAG report, the validity of the termination notices

issued by both the parties and any past or future claims/liabilities inter se would be

agitated in arbitration. On 15 October 2019, there was a further clarification by the

Division Bench that CAG would examine the scope of the audit of the debt due

suggested by both the parties in terms of the Concession Agreements. Thus, it was

understood by both the parties that the determination of the debt due would be in

terms of the Concession Agreements. CAG specifically placed before the High Court

its understanding of the role to be performed by it. In its written statement before the

High Court on 19 November 2019, CAG stated that it had decided to appoint an

auditor “for the financial audit of debt due as on the transfer date”. The terms as

envisaged define the scope of the work of the auditor to be: PART E (ii) Verification that all funds constituting the financial package both debt and

 equity, for meeting the capital cost had been credited and received in the

 Escrow Account; (iii) Verification that the funds of the financial package were used for the project

 assets as defined in the Concession Agreements and their impact on the debt

 due; (iv) Verification that all non-fare revenues were duly accounted and that all fare

 revenues were deposited in the Escrow Account; (v) Verification that the amounts standing to the credit in the Escrow Account

 had been appropriated in the order prescribed in the Escrow Agreement; (vi) Verification that all other receipts and payments were routed through the

 Escrow Account, together with the review of all other bank accounts

 maintained/operated by the appellants; and (vii) Information in the annual reports of the appellants was arrived at by following

 the applicable standards and guidelines. E Obligations of HMRTC and HSVP to pay the debt due

47 HMRTC and HSVP, as well as the appellants, were apprised at all material

times of the work of audit being handed over by CAG to a firm appointed by it. On

24 February 2020, a draft report of the financial audit of the debt due of

RMGL/RMGSL was sent to the Principal Secretary to the Government of Haryana in

the Department of Town and Country Planning. HMRTC was requested to 51 PART E

communicate its response on behalf of the State government, so that it could be

incorporated in the report. On 27 February 2020, HSVP sought four weeks at the

least, in view of the ongoing Session of the State Legislative Assembly. The

Accountant General Audit, Haryana followed up the earlier email by subsequent

communications dated 18 March 2020 and 22 April 2020. By the later

communication on behalf of CAG, the response of the State government was

requested to be furnished before the deadline of 29 April 2020, failing which the

report would be finalized without including their response. HMRTC, HSVP and the

State government, however, did not furnish their response to the draft report.

Eventually, the audit reports were finalised in respect of the debt due under the

Concession Agreements with RMGL/RMGSL respectively, and were placed before

the High Court in sealed cover. Following the opening of the sealed cover on an

application by the appellants, an objection was raised in the form of an affidavit by

HMRTC on 10 October 2020, as noticed in the earlier part of this judgment.

According to HMRTC, the audit report was inconclusive and incomplete, since

several aspects which will have an impact on the debt due remain to be determined.

Now, at this stage, it is necessary to note that the auditors stated that the scope of

the audit as decided by CAG was submitted to the High Court on 19 November

2019, and it was intimated that only those issues which are relevant and related to

examining the debt due under the Concession Agreements would be examined.

Hence, other issues mentioned by HMRTC, such as encumbrances and liabilities on

the metro project, shareholding/share in the valuation of the assets of the

concessionaire, change of shareholding rights, criminal acts and liabilities, would 52 PART E

require forensic and technical audit. It is important to note that such audits are

ongoing independently. The audit conducted by the auditors appointed by the CAG

herein, was limited to examining the debt due as defined in the Concession

Agreements. While arriving at the principal and interest component of the debt due,

the auditors indicated that other matters had come to their attention, which can have

a significant impact on the debt due, and that the report was subject to the outcome

of such matters. These included: Indeed, the submission of the learned Solicitor General that the audit under the

auspices of the CAG is incomplete and inconclusive is based on the above

statements contained in the audit report noticing other matters which may have a

bearing on the debt due. 53 PART E

48 Now the issue before the Court in this backdrop is whether the consequences

envisaged in the consent order of the High Court dated 20 September 2019 can

stand obviated on the above grounds. At the very outset, it is important to note that

the FIR in respect of IL&FS group of companies was lodged on 6 December 2018.

The termination notices of June and August 2019, and the institution of the writ

proceedings, took place thereafter. Evidently the appellants on the one hand, as well

as HSVP/HMRTC on the other, were conscious of the developments which were

taking place in respect of the IL&FS group of companies in the proceedings before

Justice D K Jain on 19 August 2019. When the consent order was passed before the

High Court, HSVP was represented by counsel as well as the Chief Administrator of

HSVP and Managing Director of HMRTC who were also present. The financial

institutions including Andhra Bank were also in appearance. The consent order

before the High Court on 20 September 2019 was also preceded by mutual

discussions between the parties and the exchange of written proposals. which have

been referred to expressly by the High Court. The consent order of the High Court

envisages: 49 Clause (ii) of the order dated 20 September 2019 makes it abundantly clear

that the basic purpose underlying the entrustment of the reference to the CAG was 54 PART E

the determination of the debt due “as defined under the Concession Contract”. The

High Court, it must be emphasized, was seized of a proceeding under Article 226 of

the Constitution, and its writ jurisdiction had been invoked to challenge the notices of

termination issued by RMGL and RMGSL, and for ensuring that the consequence

which would emanate on the expiry of the notice period of 90 days by the cessation

of the metro operations could be prevented by the judicial intervention in the course

of the public law jurisdiction. The issuance of a notice of termination, the

consequences which would ensue, and the resolution of disputes is specifically

provided in the arbitration agreement between the parties, which is an intrinsic part

of the Concession Agreements. Hence, there was an evident interface between this

element of public interest on the one hand and the contractual rights of the parties to

the Concession Agreements on the other. However, when HMRTC and HSVP

moved the High Court under Article 226 , they did so in view of the impending threat

which was looming large on the horizon of the rapid metro operations being brought

to a standstill as a result of the proximate expiry of the notice of 90 days preceding

termination. In Sanjana M. Wig vs Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited 6, a

two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice S B Sinha, has observed: […] 18. It may be true that in a given case when an action of the
 party is dehors the terms and conditions contained in an
 agreement as also beyond the scope and ambit of the
 domestic forum created therefor, the writ petition may be held
 to be maintainable; but indisputably therefor such a case has
 to be made out. It may also be true, as has been held by this
 Court in Amritsar Gas Service [(1991) 1 SCC 533] and E.
 Venkatakrishna [(2000) 7 SCC 764] that the arbitrator may
 not have the requisite jurisdiction to direct restoration of
 distributorship having regard to the provisions contained in Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963; but while
 entertaining a writ petition even in such a case, the court may
 not lose sight of the fact that if a serious disputed question of
 fact is involved arising out of a contract qua contract,
 ordinarily a writ petition would not be entertained. A writ
 petition, however, will be entertained when it involves a
 public law character or involves a question arising out of
 public law functions on the part of the respondent.”

 (emphasis supplied)

In the present case, the High Court was evidently concerned over a fundamental

issue of public interest, which was the hardship that would be caused to commuters

who use the rapid metro as a vehicle for mass transport in Gurgaon. As such, the

High Court’s exercise of its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 in the present case was

justified since non-interference, which would have inevitably led to the disruption of

rapid metro lines for Gurgaon, would have had disastrous consequences for the

general public. However, as a measure of abundant caution, we clarify that ordinarily

the High Court in its jurisdiction under Article 226 would decline to entertain a 56 PART E

dispute which is arbitrable 7. Moreover, remedies are available under the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act, 1996 for seeking interim directions either under Section 9 before the Court vested with jurisdiction or under Section 17 before the Arbitral

Tribunal itself. 50 It is also important to note that the termination of the Concession Agreements

had consequences in terms of the provisions contained in the Agreement requiring a

deposit of 80 per cent of the debt due under Article 24.4. The contesting parties

agreed to an independent third-party determination of this amount by a neutral

entity, namely the CAG. The primary function of CAG was to appoint a team of

auditors for conducting a financial audit of the debt due and in that process of also

examine the scope of the audit. The orders dated 4 October 2019 and 15 October

2019 issued by the High Court also envisaged that CAG would examine the scope

of the audit. While the earlier order of 4 October 2019 required CAG to examine the

scope of the audit of the debt due suggested by HSVP, the subsequent order dated

15 October 2019 required the examination by CAG on the scope of the audit after

bearing in mind the suggestions by both the parties “in terms of the Concession

Agreement”. The expression “in terms of the Concession Agreement” indicates that

the basis of the audit was to be what was envisaged in the Concession Agreements,

which specifically defines the expression “debt due”. Pertinently, the original order of

20 September 2019 specifies a strict time schedule within which, on a determination

being made by the auditor, 80 per cent of the debt due would be deposited by HSVP 7 Bisra Lime Stone Co. Ltd. vs Orissa SEB, (1976) 2 SCC 167 57 PART E

in the Escrow Account. This was however subject to the safeguard that it would be

subject to any order that may be passed by NCLAT or by a competent statutory

authority. However, it was further clarified that the rest of the disputes between the

parties to the lis arising out of the audit report were to be agitated in arbitration

proceedings. 51 This provision, which is embodied in clause (v) of the operative directions of

the High Court’s consent order dated 20 September 2019, is capable of a

reasonable interpretation that once a determination was made in the audit report, 80

per cent would be deposited in the Escrow Account by HSVP and if any dispute

arising out of the audit report remained, that would be resolved in arbitration. As a

matter of fact, the subsequent order of 4 October 2019 replaced clause (v) by

envisaging that the rest of the disputes between the parties arising out of: shall be agitated and decided in arbitration proceedings.

52 HSVP and HMRTC on the one hand, and RMGL/RMGSL on the other, were

in discussion at arm’s length when they invited the High Court to pass its order

dated 20 September 2019, and agreed to the modifications which have been made

by the orders dated 4 October 2019 and 15 October 2019. A two judge Bench of this 58 PART E

Court, speaking through Justice Ruma Pal, in Manish Mohan Sharma vs Ram

Bahadur Thakur Limited 8 has observed: 53 CAG in the course of its affidavit filed before this Court and High Court by the

Deputy Accountant General Shri KSN Prasad, IAS and AS (Deputy General

(Administration), has clarified that it was decided, after examining the scope of the

financial audit of the debt due suggested by both the parties, that CAG would

examine only those issues which are related and relevant to examining the debt due

under the Concession Agreements. CAG followed a process which is fair by: 54 HMRTC and HSVP are themselves to blame if they did not submit their

responses. CAG has specifically rebutted the objections to the audit report

submitted by HMRTC on the ground that as a constitutional authority, CAG decided

upon the scope of the audit of the debt in terms of the Concession Agreements,

which it submitted to the High Court. Moreover, it has clarified that this was a

financial audit of the debt due and the auditors reported their findings in terms of the

Concession Agreements. The FIR lodged by the Economic Offences Wing, the

Income Tax Department notice, investigation by the SFIO and Forensic Audit did not

form a part of the financial audit conducted by the CAG. CAG has submitted that a

financial audit of the debt due is complete and conclusive under the scope of audit

as decided by CAG, and submitted to the High Court. 60 PART E

55 It is pertinent to remember that the Projects in question have been funded by

a consortium led by banks, among which are Canara Bank and Andhra Bank. The

terms of the Concession Agreements expressly recognized that the Projects were

being publicly funded through financial institutions. The audit report emphasized that

the proportion between debt and equity was pegged at 70:30. The terms of the

Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009 clearly envisaged the purpose of

the Escrow Account in Article 18. HUDA, the predecessor of HSVP, entered into a

Concession Agreement dated 9 December 2009, which in Article 17 expressly

recognizes the linkage between the financing package and the Concession

Agreement. In fact, Article 17.2 emphasizes that the rights of the concessionaire

would stand waived if financial closure was not to occur within six months within the

cure period of six months. Further, Article 18.1 envisages that all funds constituting

the financing package for meeting the concessionaire’s capital cost shall be credited

to the Escrow Account during the period of operations, and all fare and non-fare

revenues collected by the concessionaire shall be exclusively deposited in it. Under Article 18.2 , the concessionaire was required to give to the Escrow bank irrevocable

instructions while opening the Escrow Account that the deposits into the Escrow

Account would be appropriated in the manner indicated in clauses (i) to (ii) of Article

18.2.1. This includes provision for debt service payments. These provisions in the

Concession Agreement have a vital bearing on the subject matter of the present

dispute. Canara Bank in its affidavit filed before the High Court has stated that on

behalf of consortium of lenders, acting as facility agent, it financed RMGSL in the

aggregate of Rs 1500 crores in terms of a common loan agreement. The Escrow 61 PART E

Account Agreement has been entered into in pursuance of the Concession

Agreement, and to effectuate the funding of the Project No 2. As on 31 July 2019,

the lenders of RMGSL have an outstanding of Rs 1651 crores approx. Hence, the

Projects which have been executed by RMGL and RMGSL, involved an outlay of

funds from Andhra Bank and Canara Bank, who have a vital stake in the financials

of the Projects. 56 As such, HMRTC and HSVP cannot avoid at this stage complying with the

directions which were issued by the High Court in its orders dated 20 September

2019, as modified on 4 and 15 October 2019, on the plea that an FIR has been

lodged on 16 December 2018 against IL&FS group in which there are allegations

against RMGL and RMGSL of producing fake invoices and inflating the capital cost

of the rapid metro Projects. The circumstances which have been adverted to in the

affidavit filed by HMRTC in the High Court were known to it and to HSVP, when they

both agreed to an order which emanated with the consent of the parties on 20

September 2019. Both HMRTC and HSVP were conscious of their obligation to

deposit 80 per cent of the debt due as a consequence of the termination by the

provisions contained in the Concession Agreements. They wished to lend an

assurance to the determination of the debt due by seeking the involvement of the

CAG. They made a solemn commitment before the High Court that within 30 days of

the determination, 80 per cent of the debt due would be deposited in an Escrow

Account. This amount, it must be emphasized, is not being handed over either to

RMGL or RMGSL, which have been classified as “red entities” of the IL&FS group. 62 PART E

The placement of the quantum representing 80 per cent of the debt due in Escrow

Account is to abide by such directions as may be issued by NCLAT or any other

competent statutory authority. Besides this provision, remedies are available either

before the competent Court under Section 9 or before the Arbitral tribunal under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Hence, there being an

agreement between the parties, to permit HSVP and HMRTC to obstruct or delay

compliance with their obligations would be manifestly impermissible for three

reasons: 57 The underlying wrongdoing which was allegedly conducted by the promoters

in the erstwhile management of IL&FS undoubtedly needs to be investigated. The

process of pursuing the forensic audit, the investigation by the SFIO and by the law 63 PART E

enforcement machinery must follow to its logical conclusion. The NCLT is

supervising the resolution process with a government appointed Board now being in

charge of the management of IL&FS. Equally, financing arrangements entered into

by financial institutions towards fulfilling infrastructure projects, based on the sanctity

of the commercial contracts, are to be duly observed. This facet has to be

emphasized since it embodies a vital element of public interest as well.

Commentators have noted that, “[d]eterioration in loan recovery not only leads to

higher provisions and diminished profitability but also constrains banks’ lending

capacity, thus affecting the economy adversely” 9 . Unless the dues which are

assured to financial institutions as part of the arrangements which are envisaged in

Concession Agreements are duly enforced, the structure of financing for

infrastructure projects may well be in jeopardy. Such a consequence must be

avoided by declining to accede to a request, such as that by HMRTC and HSVP,

which is to allow it to resile from its obligations. These obligations arise not only in

terms of the Concession Agreements, but have been solemnly assumed before the

High Court. Hence, on both counts, HMRTC and HSVP cannot be permitted to

resile. 58 The intervention of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution was sought

having regard to the manner in which the proceedings before the High Court were

being derailed. On 12 October 2020, after HMRTC filed its affidavit, the High Court 9 Rekha Mishra, Rajmal and Radheshyam Verma, “Determinants of Recovery of Stressed Assets in India: 59 As noted earlier, the invocation of the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution by HMRTC and HSVP was to challenge the

termination notices dated 17 June 2019, and to obviate the consequence of the

cessation of the rapid metro operations, which would have ensued on the expiry of

the notice period. The arbitration clause of the Concession Agreements provides

sufficient recourse to remedies which can be availed of. That apart, the order of the 65 PART F

High Court dated 4 October 2019 has also clarified that the rest of the dispute that

remains after the deposit of 80 per cent of the debt due, either arising out of the

CAG report, the validity of the termination notices issued by both the parties and any

past or future inter se claims and liabilities shall be agitated and decided in the

arbitration proceedings. In view of the order which we propose to pass, the dispute

between the High Court in the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution

shall stand worked out by granting liberty to the parties to avail of their rights and

remedies in accordance with law. judgment deposit into the Escrow Account 80 per cent of the debt due

 as determined in the reports of the auditors dated 23 June 2020, in the

 case of RMGL and RMGSL respectively; (ii) The deposit into the Escrow Account shall continue to be maintained in

 Escrow, subject to any order that may be passed by NCLAT or any

 competent statutory authority, and shall not be appropriated by the

 Escrow Bank without specific permission; (iii) RMGL and RMGSL on the one hand, and HSVP on the other, are at

 liberty to pursue their rights and remedies in pursuance of the

 arbitration clause contained in the Concession Agreements on all 66 PART F

 matters falling within the ambit of the arbitration agreement, including

 the validity of the notices of termination, any past or future inter se

 claims and liabilities as envisaged in the order of the High Court dated

 20 September 2019, as modified on 4 October 2019 and 15 October

 2019; (iv) In terms of clause (v) of the order of the High Court dated 20

 September 2019, in the event of any dispute arising about the

 correctness of the CAG report, in regard to the determination of the

 debt due, any of the parties would be at liberty to raise a dispute in the

 course of arbitral proceedings; (v) Upon compliance with the directions contained in (i) above, RMGL and

 RMGSL shall execute and handover to HSVP all documents which are

 required for effectuating the transfer of operations, maintenance and

 assets to HSVP or their nominees with a view to fulfill the obligation of

 the concessionaires in Article 25 of the Concession Agreement dated 9

 December 2009 and clause (vi) contained in the order of the High

 Court dated 20 September 2019, as modified on 4 October 2019 and

 15 October 2019; and (vi) The writ petitions filed before the High Court by the respondents shall

 stand disposed of. 67 PART F

61 The present judgment shall not affect any ongoing investigation or criminal

proceedings in respect of the IL&FS group of companies. The appeals shall be

disposed of in the above terms. There shall be no order as to costs.

62 Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. ….……..………...…...….......………………........J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …...………….…....…........……………….…........J.
 [M R Shah]

 …………....…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [Sanjiv Khanna]

New Delhi; March 26, 2021 68