MRS. PADMA PANDEY, MEMBER 

 

  

 

Argued by:Sh. Sukhbir Singh, Advocate for the appellants. Sh. Gurmohan Singh, Advocate for the respondent. PER
DEV RAJ, MEMBER 

 

 This
appeal is directed against the order dated 13.03.2014, rendered by the District
Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II, U.T., Chandigarh (hereinafter to be
called as the District Forum only) vide which it allowed the complaint filed by
the complainant and directed Opposite Parties No.1 & 2 (now appellants) as
under:- 2. The
facts, in brief, are that in the month of December 2011, Miss Mandeep Kaur
(Opposite Party No.3), who introduced herself as Advisor of Opposite Parties
No.1 & 2 approached the complainant and convinced him, to make investment
in the shape of fixed deposit. It was stated that in pursuance to the said
proposal and totally relying on the words of Opposite Party No.3, the
complainant paid a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- through cheque, as one time premium
amount for Policy No.4000370962 and Rs.1,00,000/- for Policy No.4000373637 vide
Payment Receipts (Annexure C-1 & C-2 respectively). It was further stated
that subsequently, in the month of January, 2012, said Ms. Mandeep Kaur once again
contacted the complainant asking him to deposit the amount in another fixed
deposit Policy, as good interest was guaranteed. It was further stated that, on
the assurance of Ms. Mandeep Kaur, the complainant deposited Rs.15,000/-
through cheque dated 21.1.2012 in Policy No.4000379319 named IDBI Federal
Incomesurance Endowment and Money Back Plan vide Payment Receipt (Annexure C-3). It was
further stated that when the complainant had enquired from said Ms. Mandeep
Kaur about the name and terms of the fixed deposit Policy, she had told him
that the Policy was named IDBI Federal Wealthsurance Dreambuilder Insurance
Plan and this was a guaranteed plan and the money was safe. 3. It
was further stated that in the month of March, 2013, the complainant received
letter from the IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co. Limited asking for renewal
premium of Rs.1,00,000/- as the grace period of the Policy had already ended
(Annexure C-9). It was further stated that the complainant immediately called
up Ms. Mandeep Kaur (Opposite Party No.3) to enquire about this letter, but
could not get in touch with her. It was further stated that, thereafter, the
complainant went to the office of the Opposite Parties a number of times, with
his grievance as he had been given to understand that the amount paid for the Policy
was one time only. It was further stated that the complainant was surprised to
know that he had to pay 04 more installments, for the Policies, with premium of
Rs.1,00,000/- each and 15 more installments for Policy with premium of
Rs.15,000/- and, in case, the amount was not paid, the amounts in the Policy
would be forfeited. It was further stated that the complainant tried to contact
the officials of Opposite Party No.2, with his request but he was always told
that no details of his policies were available. It was further stated that the
complainant was also told that he had never made any investment in the Insurance
Policies, detailed by him. 4. It
was further stated that when the complainant threatened the Opposite Parties,
that he would report the matter to the Police Authorities, he was given an
assurance by them (Opposite Parties) that his problem would be solved and the
amount would be refunded, but no amount was received by the complainant. It was
further stated that due to misrepresentation and false inducement by Ms.
Mandeep Kaur, Advisor of Opposite Parties No.1 & 2, he invested an amount
of Rs.2,15,000/- in three separate Policies, and despite visiting the office of
the Opposite Parties, a number of times, his grievance was not redressed. It
was further stated that even the signatures of the complainant on the
application attached did not belong to him. It was further stated that even the
proposal form had not been filled up by him and the other entries in the
proposal form were also questioned by the complainant. 5. It
was further stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Parties, amounted to
deficiency, in rendering service, as also indulgence into unfair trade
practice. When the grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left with
no alternative, a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act,
1986 (hereinafter to be called as the Act only), was filed, seeking directions
to the Opposite Parties, to refund Rs.2,15,000/- paid as premium for three
Policies; pay Rs.3,00,000/- as compensation for physical harassment and mental
agony; and Rs.33,000/- as cost of litigation besides any other relief, which
the District Forum deemed fit, in the facts and circumstances of the case. 6. Opposite
Parties No.1 and 2, in their joint reply, took up a preliminary objection that
no cause of action accrued to the complainant to file the complaint before the District
Forum. On merits, it was stated that they approached the complainant to make
some investment with the Company and he was explained all the terms and
conditions as well as the benefits of the Insurance Policies. It was
specifically denied that they ever approached the complainant to make
investment in the fixed deposit scheme, as alleged. It was also denied that the
complainant was told that it was a one-time payment plan. It was stated that
the complainant, out of his own free will, invested in the Insurance Policies
and paid the premiums. It was further stated that the complainant submitted
duly signed proposal form vide which he agreed to follow all the terms and
conditions incorporated in the Policy. It was further stated that the terms and
conditions of the Policy are in strict adherence to norms set by IRDA and were
duly communicated to the complainant. It was further stated that Opposite
Parties No.1 and 2 took all necessary steps to keep the complainant adequately
informed about his Policy terms and obligations. It was further stated that the
complainant opted for the Policies of his own choice and all Policies were
issued as per proposal forms. It was further stated that the Policy documents
containing the terms & conditions as well as benefits, as agreed upon
between the parties, were given to the complainant. It was further stated that
the complainant, at no time, contacted Opposite Parties No.1 and 2 with his
allegations that he had not signed the proposal form or that the Policies issued
to him were not as applied for. Opposite Parties denied the cancellation of the
Policy on the request of the complainant in due adherence to the IRDA
Regulations as the complainant did not avail of the free look period. While
giving details of the three Policies, Opposite Parties No.1 and 2 stated that the
complainant was duly informed about the payment of next installment of premium
and the fact that the Policy would lapse in case of non-payment, within the
grace period. It was further stated that the complainant invested, in the Policies,
after fully understanding the terms and conditions. It was specifically denied
that there was any inducement or misrepresentation, by the Opposite Parties, at
the time of issuance of the Polices. It was further stated that Opposite Parties
No.1 and 2 were neither deficient, in rendering service nor did they indulge
into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments, made in the complaint,
were denied 7. During
the course of proceedings on 21.10.2013, on the statement of the Counsel for
the complainant that he did not press the complaint against Opposite Party
No.3, the name of Opposite Party No.3 was ordered to be deleted from the array
of the Opposite Parties. 8. The Parties led evidence, in support of their case. 9. After hearing the Counsel for the parties, and, on
going through the evidence, and record of the case, the District Forum, allowed
the complaint, as stated, in the opening para of the instant order. 10. Feeling aggrieved, the instant appeal, has been filed
by the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 and 2. 11. We have heard the Counsel for the parties, and have
gone through the evidence, and record of the case, carefully. 12. The Counsel for the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1
and 2, submitted that the respondent/complainant purchased three Insurance
Policies, out of which, two Policies were IDBI Federal Wealthsurance
Dreambuilder Insurance Plan i.e. unit linked and the third Policy was IDBI
Federal Incomesurance Endowment and Money Back Plan i.e. non unit linked. It
was further submitted that the Unit Linked Policies bearing No.4000370962 and
4000373637 were purchased by the respondent/complainant on 30.12.2011 and the
same were issued to him on 04.01.2012 and 18.01.2012 respectively. It was
further submitted that the respondent/complainant deposited Rs.1 Lac each as
single annual premium in both the Unit Linked Policies and, thereafter, did not
make any further payment. Regarding Policy No.4000379319 with IDBI Federal Incomesurance Endowment and
Money Back Plan, it was submitted that the same was issued on 06.02.2012, for
which, the respondent/complainant paid only one annual premium of Rs.14,772/-.
It was further submitted that the respondent/complainant did not apply for
cancellation during the free-look period. It was also submitted that the Unit
Linked Insurance Policies could acquire surrender value in terms of the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority (Treatment of Discontinued Linked Insurance
Policies) Regulations, 2010, as notified vide Notification dated 1.7.2010,
after lock-in period of 5 years and, as such, no cause of action accrued to the
respondent/complainant to file the instant complaint. It was further submitted
that the complaint qua these two Unit Linked Insurance Policies, being
premature, was not maintainable before the District Forum. It was further
submitted that as the respondent/complainant did not pay further premiums after
payment of the first premium, the Policies were in lapsed stage. Regarding
Policy No.4000379319 with IDBI Federal Incomesurance Endowment and Money Back
Plan, it was submitted that since the respondent/complainant paid only one
premium, therefore, he was not entitled to any surrender value. 13. The Counsel for the respondent/complainant submitted
that the Advisor of the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 and 2 misrepresented
to the respondent/complainant that the investment was in the plan named
"IDBI Federal Wealthsurance Dreambuilder Insurance Plan", which was a
guaranteed plan and no other amount was to be paid in future as the same was a
fixed deposit plan. It was further submitted that the respondent/complainant,
being a matriculate person, could not understand the intricacies involved and
fell prey to the misrepresentation and false inducements of Opposite Party No.3,
namely, Ms. Mandeep Kaur, Advisor of the Company. It was further submitted that
the said Advisor of the appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 and 2, had committed
fraud on the respondent/complainant. It was further submitted that the order of
the District Forum was just and correct and the same deserves to be maintained. 14. The factum of purchase of three Policies, the details whereof are tabulated hereunder, by the
respondent/complainant is not in dispute:- 4000370962 
 
 
 

30.12.2011 
 
 
 

04.01.2012 
 
 
 

10 years 
 
 
 

5 years 
 
 
 

1,00,000.00 
 
 
 

1,00,000.00 
 
 
 

C-1 2. 
 
 
 

4000373637 
 
 
 

30.12.2011 
 
 
 

18.01.2012 
 
 
 

10 years 
 
 
 

5 years 
 
 
 

1,00,000.00 
 
 
 

1,00,000.00 
 
 
 

C-2 3. 
 
 
 

4000379319 
 
 
 

21.01.2012 
 
 
 

06.02.2012 25 years 15 years 
 
 
 

14,772.00 
 
 
 

14,772.00
 + 221. 58 ST + 6.65 as 
 

Education
 Cess 
 
 
 

C-3 
 
 

 

  

 

It is also evident that the
respondent/complainant did not apply for cancellation of the policies, in
question, during the free-look period. 15. The first question, which falls for consideration, is,
as to whether, the two United Linked Insurance Policies bearing Nos.4000370962
and 4000373637, after payment of only one premium of Rs.1 Lac each, have
acquired surrender value. 16. Clause
13 of the terms and conditions of IDBI
Federal Wealthsurance Dreambuilder Insurance Plan, at Pages 87-91 of the
District Forum file, being relevant is extracted hereunder:- Surrender. Your policy will have a lock-in period of five
years from the date of inception. Any top-up premiums will also have a lock in
of 5 years from the date of top-up. Surrender is possible only after completion
of the lock in period. After completion of the 5 years lock in period you may
surrender your policy at any time there is no surrender charge and we will pay
you the entire fund value as on date of surrender. As per Clause 13 relating to Surrender, extracted
above, the lock-in period of 5 years is prescribed and these two Unit Linked
Insurance Policies could acquire surrender value, only after lock-in period of
5 years. 17. Regulation 2(1)(viii) and explanation appended to Regulation 6(2) of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Treatment of
Discontinued Linked Insurance Policies) Regulations 2010 (hereinafter to be
referred as Regulations 2010), as notified vide Notification dated 1.7.2010
being relevant, are extracted below:- 18. From the bare reading of the afore-extracted
Regulations, it is clear that the proceeds of the discontinued Policies cannot
be paid by the Insurer before the expiry of lock-in-period of five consecutive
years from the date of commencement of the Policy. In the present case, the
Policies, in question, commenced on 04.01.2012 and 18.01.2012 and, as such, the
lock-in-periods of five consecutive years are to expire on 04.01.2017 and 18.01.2017
respectively. Clearly, the respondent/complainant
could not be paid the proceeds of these Policies, in question, which were
discontinued, before January 2017, as per the purport of the Regulations
extracted above. It is only after the expiry of the lock-in-period of five
years that the complainant shall be entitled to the fund value as on the date
the Policies were discontinued, after addition of interest computed at the
minimum interest rate of 3.50% p.a. Thus, at this stage, the
respondent/complainant is not entitled to the surrender value of these Policies,
as has been erroneously allowed by the District Forum. The District Forum
gravely erred in placing reliance upon Regulation 7 of Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority (Treatment of Discontinued Linked Insurance Policies)
Regulations 2010 in isolation. In fact, no cause of action has arisen to the
respondent/complainant, at this stage, and the same could arise only after the expiry
of lock-in period of 5 years on 04.01.2017 and 18.01.2017 respectively. The
complaint claiming relief qua these Policies was premature and was, thus,
liable to be dismissed on this ground alone. 19. As regards the third Policy No.4000379319 with IDBI
Federal Incomesurance Endowment and Money Back Plan, the said Policy did not
come under the purview of IRDA Regulations 2010. The question, which now falls
for consideration, is, as to whether the same acquired any surrender value or
not. In this Policy, the sum insured was Rs.2,30,850/-; Policy Term was 25
years and premium payment period was 15 years. The respondent/complainant paid
only one premium amounting to Rs.14,772/- plus Rs.221.58Ps as Service Tax plus
Rs.6.65Ps as Education Cess. 20. Clause 7 of the Policy terms and conditions relating
to Special Surrender Value, being relevant, is extracted hereunder:- The table showing the paid up value factor, as
tabulated in the Policy terms and conditions, being relevant, is also extracted
hereunder: 21. From the aforesaid clause and the table, it is clear
that the paid up value for the Policy bearing No.4000379319 IDBI Federal
Incomesurance Endowment and Money Back Plan, having Premium payment period of
15 years and Policy term as 25 years, would be 0%. Therefore, the
respondent/complainant was not entitled to get any surrender value or paid up
value for this Policy. 22. It is well settled principle of law that the parties
are governed, by the terms and conditions of the Insurance Policy, and while
construing the same, the Consumer Foras cannot add, subtract or delete any
words therefrom. It was held by the Hon`ble Supreme Court, in Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of
India Ltd. v. Garg Sons International, II (2013) CPJ 1 (SC)=I (2013)
SLT 614, as under:- 23. In United
Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. M.K.J. Corporation, III (1996) CPJ 8 (SC)=
(1996) 6 SCC 428, the Hon'ble Supreme Court also laid down the principle of
law, that it is a fundamental principle of Insurance Law, that utmost good
faith must be observed, by the contracting parties. In M/s. Suraj Mal Ram Niwas Oil Mills (P) Ltd. v. United India
Insurance Co. Ltd. (SC), Civil Appeal No.1375 of 2003, decided on
8.10.2010, the Honble Apex Court held
that It is trite that in a contract of insurance, the rights and obligations
are governed by the terms of the said contract." 24. As stated above, the parties are governed by the terms
and conditions contained in the Policy. When as per the Policy terms and
conditions, the Policy, in question, viz. Policy No.4000379319, did not acquire
any surrender value as the same also did not acquire any paid up value, the
respondent/complainant was not entitled to refund of any amount. The District
Forum, thus, gravely erred in allowing the complaint and directing the
appellants/Opposite Parties No.1 and 2 to refund the premium paid for the third
Policy also after deduction of maximum discontinuance charges as per Regulation
7 of Regulations 2010. In our considered opinion, no deficiency, in rendering
service or indulgence into unfair trade practice is attributable to the
appellants/Opposite Parties. 25. In this view of the matter, the District Forum wrongly
allowed the complaint and ordered for refund of Rs.2,09,000/- i.e.
(Rs.2,15,000.00 - Rs.6,000.000 as maximum discontinuance charges) alongwith
Rs.7,000/- as costs of litigation. Thus, the order impugned is liable to set
aside. 26. No other point, was urged, by the
Counsel for the parties. 27. For
the reasons recorded above, the appeal filed by the appellants/Opposite Parties
No.1 and 2, is accepted with no order as to costs. The order impugned, passed
by the District Forum, is set aside. Consequently, the complaint filed by the
respondent/complainant, before the District Forum, is dismissed with no order
as to costs. It is, however, made clear that in respect of Unit Linked
Policies, the respondent/complainant shall be entitled to avail of the legal
remedy after the expiry of the lock-in-period. 28. Certified Copies of this order be
sent to the parties, free of charge. 29. The file be consigned to Record
Room, after completion. Pronounced. September 09, 2014. Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- [DEV RAJ] 

 

MEMBER 

 

  

 

  

 

Sd/- [PADMA PANDEY] 

 

MEMBER 

 

Ad 

 

 

  

  

 STATE COMMISSION 

 

  

 

(First Appeal
No.263 of 2014) 

 

  

 

Argued by:Sh. Sukhbir Singh, Advocate for the applicants/ 

 

 appellants. Sh. Gurmohan Singh, Advocate for the respondent. Dated the 9th
day of September, 2014 

 

  

 

 ORDER 

 

  

 

 Alongwith
the appeal, an application, for condonation of delay of 88 days, in filing the
same (appeal), was moved, by the applicants/appellants, on the ground, that on
receipt of a copy of the order dated 13.03.2014 passed by the District Forum,
the applicants/appellants, in consultation with the senior officials of the
Company, took a decision to prefer the instant appeal. It was stated that as
the approval was to be sought from the Head Office of the
applicants/appellants, due to the cumbersome procedure involved, the delay of
88 days occurred, in filing the appeal. It was further stated that the delay
caused was neither willful nor deliberate. 2. The respondent/complainant
filed reply to the application for condonation of delay, aforesaid, wherein it
was stated that the delay in filing the appeal was intentional, willful and
deliberate and the applicants/appellants approached this Commission with
unclean hands. It was further stated that it is evident from copy of the order
dated 13.3.2014 annexed by the applicants/appellants, that the same was
prepared 18.3.2014 and delivered to the applicants/appellants on 19.3.2014 and,
as such, their contention that copy of the order was made available to them on
1.4.2014 is totally false and misleading. It was prayed that the application be
dismissed. 3. Arguments,
in the application were heard. 4. No
doubt, there is delay of 88 days, in filing the appeal. The question arises, as
to whether, the delay was intentional, or on account of the reasons, beyond the
control of the applicants/appellants. Before discussing this question, let us
have a look at law , laid down by the Hon`ble Supreme Court and the Delhi High
Court, regarding the condonation of delay.  In  Lanka Venkateswarlu (D) By Lrs. vs State Of
A.P. and Ors.,
A.I.R. 2011 S.C. 1199: (2011) 4 S.C.C. 190, the Apex Court held as under:- (i).    The Courts
generally adopt a liberal approach in considering the application for
condonation of delay on the ground of sufficient cause under Section 5 of the
Limitation Act. (ii).          Rules of limitation are not meant to destroy the rights
of parties. They are meant to see that the parties do not resort to dilatory
tactics, but seek their remedy promptly. (iii).          Once a valuable right has accrued in favour of one party
as a result of the failure of the other party to explain the delay by showing
sufficient cause and its own conduct, it will be unreasonable to take away
that. (iv).          Whilst considering applications for condonation of delay
under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, the Courts do not enjoy unlimited and
unbridled discretionary powers. All discretionary powers, especially judicial
powers, have to be exercised within reasonable bounds, known to the law. 5. In N. Balakrishnan v. M. Krishnamurthy , (1998)
7 Supreme Court Cases 123, there was a delay of 883 days, in
filing application, for setting aside exparte decree, for which application for
condonation of delay was filed, the Apex Court held as under:- The primary function of a court is to adjudicate the dispute between the
parties and to advance substantial justice. The time- limit fixed for
approaching the court in different situations is not because on the expiry of
such time a bad cause would transform into a good cause." The
Court further observed in paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 which run thus:- 6. In Jyotsana Sharda
vs Gaurav Sharda , (2010-3) 159 P.L.R. D15,Delhi High Court, while condoning 52 days delay, in filing
the appeal, observed as under:- 7. The principle of law , laid down, in the aforesaid
cases, is fully applicable, to the facts of the instant case. The reasons,
mentioned in the application, for condonation of delay are plausible. The
application for condonation of delay, is duly supported by the affidavit of Sony
George, Deputy Vice President (Legal) of the applicants/appellants. There is
also force in the argument of the applicants/appellants that the delay in
filing the appeal occurred as the approval for filing the appeal was to be
obtained from the Head Office of the Company. The delay in filing the appeal
was, thus, procedural and not intentional, willful or deliberate. It is settled
principle of law, that normally every lis, should be decided, on merits. When
the substantial justice and the procedural wrangles are pitted against each
other, then the former shall prevail over the latter. The main object of the
Consumer Fora is to dispense substantial justice, and not to throttle the same,
by making it a sacrificial goat, at the altar of hyper-technicalities. Some
lapse, on the part of the litigant alone is not enough to turn down his plea
and shut the door against him. The explanation furnished for delay in filing
the appeal, does not smack of malafidies. When the explanation furnished for
delay is bonafide, the Consumer Fora is required to adopt liberal approach, to
condone the same, so as to ensure that the lis is decided, on merits, than by
resorting to hyper-technicalities. In the instant case, in our considered
opinion, there was no intentional and deliberate delay, in filing the appeal,
by the applicants/appellants. There is,
thus, sufficient cause, for condoning the delay. The application thus, deserves
to be accepted. 8. For the reasons recorded above, the
application for condonation of delay of 88 days, in filing the appeal, is
allowed, and the delay is, accordingly, condoned. 9. Admitted. 10. It be registered. 11. Arguments, in the main appeal already
heard. 12. Vide our detailed order of the even
date, recorded separately, the appeal filed by the appellants/Opposite Parties
No.1 and 2, has been accepted with no order as to costs. The order impugned,
passed by the District Forum, has been set aside. Consequently, the complaint
filed by the respondent/complainant, before the District Forum, has been
dismissed with no order as to costs. 13. Certified
copies of the order be sent to the parties free of charge. Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- (DEV RAJ) 
 

MEMBER 
 
 
 

(JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)) 
 

PRESIDENT 
 
 
 

(PADMA PANDEY) 
 

MEMBER 
 
 

 

  

 

Ad