10.10.2025
 Order No. 01. 1. This matter is taken up through hybrid arrangement. 2. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 3. The present Writ Petition has been filed by the Petitioner with

 the following prayer: 4. Learned counsel for the Petitioner submits that the Petitioner has

 been a victimized in financial fraud involving identity theft, cyber

 deception and institutional negligence. The Petitioner had

 approached the Opposite Party No.5 an employee of Think and

 Learn Pvt. Ltd. (Byju's)/Opposite Party No.4 who fraudulently

 obtained his KYC documents and OTP under the guise of boarding

 him for a temporary internal sales/training demo. 5. Learned counsel for the Petitioner further contends that a loan of

 Rs.1,57,837/- was processed and disbursed in his name by

 Respondent No.3/Aditya Birla Finance Ltd. without any singed

 document or consent of the Petitioner. The Petitioner had never

 applied any loan from Aditya Birla Finance Ltd. He further

 submits that the personal loan under the product named Byju

 Personal Loan has been fraudulently sanctioned and disbursed in

 his name. But, the Petitioner has never received any loan amount.

 In this regard, the Petitioner has made representation before the

 Opposite Party No.3/Aditya Birla Finance Ltd. However, the

 Opposite Party No.3 did not take any action. Hence, the Petitioner

 is constrained to approach this Court. 6. Considering the factual scenario involved herein, taking into

 account the nature of the dispute and keeping in view the

 submissions made by the learned counsel for the Petitioner, this

 Court is not inclined to entertain the present Writ Petition. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed However, the Petitioner is granted liberty to approach the Signed by: LITARAM MURMU Designation: P.A. Reason: Authentication Location: OHC Date: 13-Oct-2025 17:47:46 3 concerned Cyber Cell of the City Police for redressal of his

 grievance. 7. Accordingly, this Writ Petition is disposed of. ( Dr. Sanjeeb K Panigrahi)
 Judge

 Murmu Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: LITARAM MURMU Designation: P.A. Reason: Authentication Location: OHC Date: 13-Oct-2025 17:47:46