3 R.F. NARIMAN, J. 1. The present appeals have their genesis in what is popularly known as the

 “Satyam scam”. By a letter dated 7.1.2009, one B. Ramalinga Raju, former

 Chairman of Satyam Computer Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as

 “SCSL”) sent a letter to various stock exchanges and the SEBI stating that

 the financial statements of SCSL had been grossly overstated and did not

 reflect the true and fair view of the financial position of SCSL. Civil Appeal No.16805 of 2017 2. In the present appeal, the appellant was roped in by the Whole Time

 Member of the SEBI as well as the Appellate Tribunal as he happened to

 be an executive director of SCSL from 1993 upto 31.8.2000 and a

 non-executive director from 1.9.2000 to 23.1.2003. He also happens to be

 the “co-brother” of B. Ramalinga Raju as the two of them have married two

 sisters. 3. SCSL was originally incorporated as a private limited company with two

 shareholders, namely, B. Ramalinga Raju and D.V. Satyanarayana Raju

 on 24.6.1987. These two gentlemen were the original promoters of this

 company. The appellant, who was an executive director of this company

 from 1993 onwards, was confined to operating a joint venture company of

 SCSL, namely, Satyam Enterprise Solutions Private Limited (SES). The

 appellant stated that he was never involved in the day to day affairs of

 SCSL. In the said joint venture company, 80% shareholding was held by 4 SCSL and the appellant held the remaining 20% shares. SES merged into

SCSL pursuant to a scheme of arrangement, approved by the Andhra

Pradesh High Court in 1999, as a result of which the appellant was issued

8,00,000 equity shares of SCSL. Later in the same year, SCSL declared a

bonus, thereby doubling the number of shares held by the appellant to

16,00,000 equity shares of SCSL. On 7.8.2000, SCSL announced a stock

split by which the face value of the shares was reduced from Rs.10/- to

Rs.2/- as a result of which every shareholder got an additional five shares

of Rs.2/- for each share of Rs.10/- held by them. Consequently, the

shareholding of the appellant increased to 76,50,000 equity shares of

SCSL. The first time that unpublished price sensitive information

(hereinafter referred to as “UPSI”) came into existence so far as SCSL is

concerned is stated to be on 31.3.2001. It is pertinent to note that as on

this date, as has been stated hereinabove, the appellant was a

non-executive director of the said company. Various annual reports from

2000 till 2003 disclosed B. Ramalinga Raju and B. Rama Raju as

promoters of SCSL, but not the appellant. The appellant sold his shares in

SCSL from 22.2.2001 to December, 2008. Ultimately, by a show cause

notice dated 19.6.2009, after referring to the said letter dated 7.1.2009 by

the Chairman of SCSL, it was stated that as the appellant was a promoter

and director of SCSL, he was liable as an “insider”, having knowledge of

UPSI, as a result of which he stood to gain by selling shares which he 5 owned at an inflated value. The appellant replied to the show cause

notice, taking detailed factual grounds as well as grounds in law, stating

that he could not be said to be an “insider” as defined by the SEBI

(Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations), 1992 (hereinafter referred to

as the “1992 Regulations”). By an order dated 10.9.2015, the Whole Time

Member of the SEBI, after extracting relevant sections of the SEBI Act,

1992 and the relevant regulations referred to in the show cause notice,

held that given Annexure 15 to the show cause notice, the appellant being

a promoter was not the only ground of violation of the 1992 Regulations,

but being a director of SCSL and co-brother of B. Ramalinga Raju would

also rope the appellant in. After referring to Regulations 2(c) and 2(e) of

the 1992 Regulations, the Whole Time Member held that being a director

of SCSL, the appellant was a “connected person” under Regulation 2(c) and, therefore, an “insider” under Regulation 2(e) . The Whole Time

Member went on to hold that the fact that the books of accounts of SCSL

were fabricated and manipulated since 2001 remains within the knowledge

and possession of “insiders” who were reasonably expected to have

access to them. When it was sought to be contended that the Special

Court, Enforcement Directorate and Serious Frauds Investigation Office

(SFIO) have given findings that only B. Ramalinga Raju and his cohorts

were involved in the manipulations of accounts of SCSL, and had hidden

the same from and deceived the rest of the board of directors, the Whole 6 Time Member stated that SEBI’s investigation is independent and

 separate from that of other investigation agencies, and that since the

 appellant was part of the board of directors and declared as a promoter in

 disclosures filed by SCSL with stock exchanges, and being a co-brother of

 B. Ramalinga Raju, he was, therefore, closely connected with SCSL and

 its Chairman and “could have in all probability known about affairs of

 Satyam Computers including the claimed wrong disclosure of him being a

 promoter”. It is important to note that it was held that the appellant had no

 role in the fraud committed by B. Ramalinga Raju and his cohorts. It was

 then held that the appellant was barred from accessing the securities

 market for a period of 7 years. Further, the appellant was to disgorge the

 amount mentioned against his name, which is an amount of Rs. 136.64

 crores, for the entirety of the period till he sold his shares i.e. upto

 December, 2008. 4. An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal was largely dismissed by the majority

 judgment. The majority judgment held that it would not be necessary to

 decide whether the appellant was a promoter of SCSL. It further went on

 to construe Regulation 2(e) of the 1992 Regulations stating that it would

 be enough that the appellant was a director until January, 2003, which is

 after the date of occurrence of UPSI, which took place on and from

 31.3.2001. Since there is no real difference between an executive and a

 non-executive director, he would reasonably be expected to know about 7 the fraud and manipulation by the Chairman and his cohorts, as he was

 closely connected to the same, being his co-brother. The majority went on

 to hold that 71% of the shares were sold in 2003 itself, and the fact that

 the appellant was not mentioned in the charge sheet filed by the CBI and

 was not responsible for the fraud would make no difference. Even the

 SFIO’s report, which stated that only B. Ramalinga Raju and his cohorts

 were responsible for the fraud, and that they actually duped the board of

 directors of SCSL, would make no difference as the appellant being an

 “insider” had sold shares of SCSL when in possession of UPSI and made

 profits in violation of the 1992 Regulations. It was held by the majority

 judgment of the Appellate Tribunal that given Annexure 15 to the show

 cause notice, the appellant being a promoter was not the only ground of

 violation of the 1992 Regulations, but being a director of SCSL and

 co-brother of Ramalinga Raju would also rope the appellant in. However,

 the appellant was given relief to the extent that under the Explanation to Regulation 2(e) of the 1992 Regulations, the appellant could only be held

 liable for a period of six months beyond his resignation as a director i.e.

 upto July, 2003. A remand order, therefore, was made to assess the

 quantum of unlawful gains that the appellant had made upto July, 2003. 5. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

 present appellant, has argued that the basis of the show cause notice is

 that the appellant as a promoter made illegal gains contrary to the 1992 8 Regulations. Once it is demonstrated that he is not a promoter, the

findings of the Whole Time Member and the majority view of the Appellate

Tribunal must be set aside as they go beyond the show cause notice. He

further argued that a fundamental error made by the Whole Time Member

as well as the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal is in the

construction of Regulation 2(e)(i) of the 1992 Regulations, in that an

insider is defined as a “connected person” and a person who is reasonably

expected to have access to unpublished price sensitive information by

virtue of such connection. The second part of the definition after the word

“and” has been ignored by both authorities and they are, therefore, wrong

in their construction of Regulation 2(e)(i) of the 1992 Regulations.

Otherwise also, according to the learned senior counsel, even assuming

that the appellant was an insider, Regulation 3(i) would, in any case, not

be attracted in the facts of the present case as the appellant was neither in

possession of nor acted on the basis of any unpublished price sensitive

information. According to the learned senior counsel, the Whole Time

Member’s order suffered from pre-determinational bias, inasmuch as he

had by an earlier order, which related to B. Ramalinga Raju and his

cohorts, found against the appellant without the appellant being a party to

the earlier decision and without hearing him. Further, according to the

learned senior counsel, the impugned judgments erred in ignoring very

important findings of the Special Court, the charge sheet of the CBI and 9 the SFIO’s report. He relied very heavily on the minority judgment of the

 Appellate Tribunal which went into great detail on facts and ultimately

 exonerated his client. 6. Shri C.U. Singh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the SEBI,

 countered each of these allegations and took us through the Whole Time

 Member’s judgment as well as the majority judgment of the Appellate

 Tribunal, and stated that they appreciated the law as well as the facts

 absolutely correctly. He referred to Section 21 of the Securities Contracts

 (Regulation) Act, 1956 in order to show that where securities are listed in

 any recognized stock exchange, the conditions of the Listing Agreement

 with that stock exchange have to be complied with. He then took us to

 Clause 35 of a standard form of the Listing Agreement, in which it is stated

 that the company has to file, with the stock exchange, the shareholding

 pattern on a quarterly basis in a form which contains the promoters’

 holding. “Promoter” is defined in Regulation 2(1)(h)(i) of the SEBI

 (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997

 (hereinafter referred to as the “1997 Regulations”), which definition is

 incorporated in the Listing Agreement. This definition clearly shows that a

 promoter means a person who is in control of the company, directly or

 indirectly, whether as shareholder, director or otherwise. According to Shri

 Singh, the appellant, by virtue of being an executive director from 1993,

 was, therefore, clearly a promoter within the meaning of the aforesaid 10 definition. He also referred to and relied upon Section 159 of the

Companies Act, 1956, which requires certain particulars to be furnished by

companies in their annual return. What is conspicuous by its absence is

the fact that there is no requirement to disclose who the promoters of a

company are. This has since been changed, for in the Companies Act,

2013 , Section 92(1)(e) now requires disclosures in the annual return as to

who the promoters of the company are. This being the case, according to

the learned senior counsel, the annual returns filed by the company did

not, in law, need to disclose who were the promoters of the company and

for this reason, SCSL did not disclose the appellant as a promoter.

According to Shri Singh, this aspect is adverted to in the majority judgment

of the Appellate Tribunal, even though the majority judgment, according to

Shri Singh, does not ultimately decide on the basis that the appellant is a

promoter. He also relied upon the annual reports of the company, which

show the appellant as a director on and from 2000 to 2003, but not as an

independent director thereof. He referred to the averments of the

appellant himself to argue that until a suitable replacement was found, the

appellant would continue as a non-executive director, meaning thereby

that he would continue to do what he had done as an executive director.

This being the case, the majority judgment of the Appellant Tribunal was

right in saying that insofar as the appellant was concerned, there was no

distinction between being an executive and a non-executive director. 11 According to the learned senior counsel, when it comes to the definition of

 “insider”, Regulation 2(e)(i) must be contrasted with Regulation 2(e)(ii) of

 the 1992 Regulations, whereas sub-clause (i) requires a connected person

 only to be reasonably expected to have insider information, under

 sub-clause (ii), persons who are not connected persons need to have

 actual knowledge of insider information. According to the learned senior

 counsel, the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal was correct in

 considering five important factors in ultimately holding that the appellant

 was an insider, namely, (i) that he was a promoter; (ii) that he promoted

 two joint venture companies which were closely linked with SCSL; (iii) that

 one of these companies ultimately merged with SCSL; (iv) that he would

 continue as a director till he was replaced; and (v) that he was co-brother

 of B. Ramalinga Raju. These factors, according to Shri Singh, were

 foundational facts from which it was reasonable to draw an inference that

 the appellant could be expected to have knowledge of UPSI. He relied

 upon certain judgments of this Court in order to show that penalty

 proceedings and criminal proceedings are different and independent of

 each other, and that, therefore, what is held by a Special Court would not

 have any real bearing on SEBI’s penalty proceeding. 7. Having heard learned counsel on both sides, it is important to first set out

 the relevant statutory provisions. SEBI Act, 1992 12 “Prohibition of manipulative and deceptive devices, insider
trading and substantial acquisition of securities or control.
12A. No person shall directly or indirectly— (a) use or employ, in connection with the issue, purchase or sale of
any securities listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock
exchange, any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules or the
regulations made thereunder; (b) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection
with issue or dealing in securities which are listed or proposed to
be listed on a recognised stock exchange; (c) engage in any act, practice, course of business which operates
or would operate as fraud or deceit upon any person, in
connection with the issue, dealing in securities which are listed or
proposed to be listed on a recognised stock exchange, in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules or the
regulations made thereunder; (d) engage in insider trading; (e) deal in securities while in possession of material or non-public
information or communicate such material or non-public
information to any other person, in a manner which is in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules or the
regulations made thereunder; (f) acquire control of any company or securities more than the
percentage of equity share capital of a company whose securities
are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognised stock exchange
in contravention of the regulations made under this Act.
Penalty for insider trading. 15G.If any insider who,— (i) either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deals
in securities of a body corporate listed on any stock exchange on
the basis of any unpublished price-sensitive information; or (ii) communicates any unpublished price-sensitive information to
any person, with or without his request for such information except
as required in the ordinary course of business or under any law; or (iii) counsels, or procures for any other person to deal in any
securities of any body corporate on the basis of unpublished
price-sensitive information,
shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than ten lakh
rupees but which may extend to twenty-five crore rupees or three
times the amount of profits made out of insider trading, whichever
is higher. Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, 1992 13 Definitions. 2. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: xxx xxx xxx (h) “person is deemed to be a connected person”, if such person— (i) is a company under the same management or group, or any
subsidiary company thereof within the meaning of sub-section (1B)
of section 370, or sub-section (11) of section 372, of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or sub-clause (g) of section 2 of
the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of
1969) as the case may be; or (ii) is an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act,
Investment company, Trustee Company, Asset Management
Company or an employee or director thereof or an official of a
stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation; (iii) is a merchant banker, share transfer agent, registrar to an
issue, debenture trustee, broker, portfolio manager, Investment
Advisor, sub-broker, Investment Company or an employee thereof,
or is member of the Board of Trustees of a mutual fund or a 14 member of the Board of Directors of the Asset Management
 Company of a mutual fund or is an employee thereof who have a
 fiduciary relationship with the company; (iv) is a Member of the Board of Directors or an employee of a
 public financial institution as defined in section 4A of the
 Companies Act, 1956; or (v) is an official or an employee of a Self-regulatory Organisation
 recognised or authorised by the Board of a regulatory body; or (vi) is a relative of any of the aforementioned persons; (vii) is a banker of the company. (viii) relatives of the connected person; or (ix) is a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or
 association of persons wherein any of the connected persons
 mentioned in sub-clause (i) of clause (c), of this regulation or any
 of the persons mentioned in sub-clause (vi), (vii) or (viii) of this
 clause have more than 10 per cent of the holding or interest;

 (ha) “price sensitive information” means any information which
 relates directly or indirectly to a company and which if published is
 likely to materially affect the price of securities of company.
 Explanation.—The following shall be deemed to be price sensitive
 information:- xxx xxx xxx (i) “relative” means a person, as defined in section 6 of the
 Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); Prohibition on dealing, communicating or counselling on
 matters relating to insider trading. 3. No insider shall— (i) either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deal
 in securities of a company listed on any stock exchange on the
 basis of any unpublished price sensitive information; Regulation 3(i) was amended with effect from 20.2.2002 as follows: 15 Justice S.S. Sandhawalia, (1994) 2 SCC 240 at paragraph 18

and Spentex Industries Ltd. v. CCE , (2016) 1 SCC 780 at paragraph 30.

In the present case, the new 2015 Regulations also throw considerable

light on the definition of “insider”, as an insider is now defined to mean

only a person who is a connected person or a person who is in possession

of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information. Obviously,

post 2015, an “insider” need not satisfy the second test of the 1992

Regulations and it is enough that such person be a “connected person” as

defined. The disjunctive “or” contained in the 2015 Regulations must be

contrasted with the expression “and” contained in the 1992 Regulations.

Therefore, it is clear that the majority view of the Appellate Tribunal, in

giving effect to only the first part of Regulation 2(e)(i) of the 1992

Regulations, cannot be sustained in law. 11.Further, under the second part of Regulation 2(e)(i) , the connected person

 must be “reasonably expected” to have access to unpublished price

 sensitive information. The expression “reasonably expected” cannot be a

 mere ipse dixit – there must be material to show that such person can

 reasonably be so expected to have access to unpublished price sensitive

 information. 12.This brings us to the minority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal. First and

 foremost, this judgment correctly brings out the role of the expression

 “and” contained in Regulation 2(e)(i) . The judgment also correctly

 appreciates the difference in language in Regulation 3 before and after it

 was amended in 2002, and contrasts the expression “on the basis of” with

 the expression “when in possession of”. The minority judgment then goes

 on to refer and rely upon the SFIO’s report, which found that the

 manipulation of financial statements was done by B. Ramalinga Raju and

 his cohorts, and was suppressed from the board of directors, which would

 include the appellant as a member of such board. In a significant

 paragraph, the minority holds: 13.The said judgment went on to hold that the appellant cannot be described

 as a promoter inasmuch as the annual reports, which contained his

 signatures as a director, did not show him as a promoter. What was done

 behind his back was that B. Ramalinga Raju and B. Rama Raju described

 him as a promoter only to various stock exchanges in letters written to

 those exchanges without the knowledge or consent of the appellant. The

 minority judgment also refers to the fact that the appellant’s shares were

 not subject to a lock-in period at the time of merger of SES into SCSL,

 which lock-in period was mandated by law for promoters. In fact, the

 appellant was one of the persons duped by B. Ramalinga Raju and his

 brother B. Rama Raju and was, therefore, a victim of the fraud perpetrated

 by the former Chairman of SCSL. One very important finding of the

 minority judgment is as follows: 14.It was also found that by the year 2006, all the actual promoters disposed

 of their shareholding in SCSL because they were aware of the credit

 crunch faced by SCSL. The fact that the appellant continued to retain

 substantial shareholding in SCSL right till the end of 2008 clearly points to

 lack of possession of UPSI. Another important point is that the last

 transaction of sale of shares by the appellant on 22.12.2008, which was a

 substantial chunk of shares, was made by the appellant just like any other

 shareholder of SCSL. News had got out into the market that the merger

 proposal of SCSL with Maytas Infra Limited and Maytas Properties was

 not going ahead. The hysteria in the share market resulted in a steep drop

 in the price of shares of SCSL. The fact that the appellant disposed of a

 huge chunk of his shareholding on 22.12.2008 to avail of the price on that

 date completely negates the inference that there was any information flow 20 between B. Ramalinga Raju, B. Rama Raju and the appellant. It was also

 pointed out that the appellant had no professional or business relationship

 with his co-brother and had no connection with any of the entities floated

 by his co-brother. The fact that the appellant was not involved with

 fraudulent manipulation is clear from the fact that he ceased to be an

 executive director in the year 2000. Fraudulent manipulation began only

 from 2001 onwards. It was also considered significant by the minority

 judgment that the appellant was not a nominee of SCSL on the board of

 directors of Satyam Infoway, but of another third party investor. 15.The minority judgment then went on to notice the distinction between an

 executive and a non-executive director. 16.In Pooja Ravinder Devidasani v. State of Maharashtra (2014) 16 SCC 1

 at 9, it is stated: 17.An instructive judgment of Lord Halsbury is contained in Dovey and the

 Metropolitan Bank v. John Cory [1901] AC 477. The Lord Chancellor put

 it thus: 18.It is also important to note that the appellant attended only six out of ten

 board meetings of SCSL for the period that he was a non-executive

 director. The appellant was not involved in any business development,

 diversification plans and advise on new ventures of SCSL post 1999. It

 was also held by the minority judgment that the findings of the Whole Time

 Member and the majority went clearly beyond the show cause notice,

 which, when read with Annexure 15 thereof, makes it clear that the

 appellant is only sought to be roped in as a promoter. Once it is found that 24 he is not a promoter, then the basis of the show cause notice goes as also

 the basis of the impugned judgment. 19.In Godrej Industries Ltd. v. CCE , (2008) 17 SCC 471 at 471, this Court

 stated: 20.However, Shri Singh argued, based on Section 21 of the

 the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Clause 35 of the Listing

 Agreement, which takes us to Regulation 2(1)(h)(i) of the 1997 Regulations,

 to support the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal by stating that as

 the appellant was an executive director from 1993 to 2000, he must be said

 to be a person who is in control as a director of the company and hence a

 promoter. Regulation 2(1)(h)(i) of the 1997 Regulations states: 26 Nothing has been shown to us to indicate that, on facts, such executive

salaried director was in any manner in control of SCSL directly or indirectly.

The absence of the word “independent” in the annual report also does not

take us very far, inasmuch as it is admitted that he was a non-executive

director from 2000 to 2003, who only attended six board meetings and

received salary therefor. We have not been shown how the appellant was in

any manner responsible for actions taken by those in the management of

SCSL. We have already demonstrated that the minority judgment is much

more detailed and correct than the majority judgment of the Appellant Tribunal.

We accept Shri Singh’s submission that in cases like the present, a

reasonable expectation to be in the know of things can only be based on

reasonable inferences drawn from foundational facts. This Court in SEBI v.

Kishore R. Ajmera , (2016) 6 SCC 368 at 383, stated: 21.We are of the view that from the mere fact that the appellant promoted two

 joint venture companies, one of which ultimately merged with SCSL, and

 the fact that he was a co-brother of B. Ramalinga Raju, without more,

 cannot be stated to be foundational facts from which an inference of

 reasonably being expected to be in the knowledge of confidential

 information can be formed. The fact that the appellant was to be

 continued as a director till replacement again does not take us anywhere.

 Shri Viswanathan has shown us that two other independent non-executive

 directors were appointed in his place on and from 23.1.2003. What is

 clear is that the appellant devoted all his energies to the businesses he

 was running, on and after resigning as an executive director of SCSL, as a

 result of which the salary he was being paid by SCSL was discontinued. 22.Having regard to the findings contained in the minority judgment and the

 aforestated discussion, we are clearly of the opinion that this view is

 correct both in law and on facts and deserves our acceptance. Therefore,

 this appeal is allowed and the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal

 is set aside. CIVIL APPEAL NO.19494 of 2017 23.The appellant in this appeal is a closely held private company of

 Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju and his wife, each holding 50% of the share

 capital of this company. Shri Giri, learned senior counsel appearing on

 behalf of the appellant, has drawn our attention to the findings of the 29 Whole Time Member and the Appellate Tribunal insofar as it pertains to

 this appellant. His grievance is that after appreciating that the appellant

 had sold only 8,00,000 shares held in SCSL, yet, in the operative order of

 disgorgement, the learned Whole Time Member includes 24,00,000

 shares which were never sold by the appellant, but for which only

 application money was received and returned by 17.4.2002. Thus, the

 disgorgement order includes gains made on account of 8,00,000 as well

 as 24,00,000 shares and, therefore, comes to the astronomical figure of

 Rs. 82,49,37,875/-. He also referred to the judgment of the Appellate

 Tribunal and strongly relied upon the minority judgment to state that the

 result of this appeal should follow upon the result of Civil Appeal No.16805

 of 2017. 24.Shri C.U. Singh, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the SEBI,

 did not controvert the factual position and largely agreed that the fate of

 this appeal would be the same as the result in Civil Appeal No. 16805 of

 2017. 25.On facts, the appellant sold 8,00,000 shares from 4.1.2001 to 14.3.2001.

 As has been pointed out hereinabove, the occurrence of the UPSI was

 only from 31.3.2001 and inasmuch as these sales were made prior to this

 date, obviously, the 1992 Regulations would not get attracted. The

 minority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal referred to this and stated that

 the result would be the same as the result in Appeal No.462 of 2015, 30 namely that of B. Jhansi Rani, who was the wife of B. Suryanarayana

 Raju, brother of B. Ramalinga Raju and B. Rama Raju. In that case also,

 shares had been sold prior to the occurrence of the UPSI and on the

 self-same ground, B. Jhansi Rani’s appeal had been allowed by the

 majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal with the minority concurring.

 The minority judgment further went on to state that 24,00,000 shares also,

 which were never sold but were merely returned to Chintalapati Srinivasa

 Raju, could not form the basis of any disgorgement order. We agree with

 the same. 26.The majority judgment then went on to rely upon Regulation 2(h)(ix) . As is

 correctly pointed out by the minority judgment, Regulation 2(h)(ix) at the

 relevant time, prior to 20.2.2002, read as follows: 27.Obviously, the appellant company does not have persons who are

 relatives of persons mentioned in sub-clauses (vi), (vii) and (viii) – under

 these sub-clauses, a person is deemed to be a connected person if such

 person is a relative of persons in clauses (i) to (v); or is a banker of the

 company; or is a relative of a connected person. Since none of these

 clauses are attracted, it is obvious that Section 2(h)(ix) would also, as a 31 matter of law, not be attracted in the facts of this case. In this view of the

 matter, this appeal also stands allowed. Consequently, the majority

 judgment of the Appellate Tribunal judgment is set aside.

DIARY NO.37202 OF 2017 28.In this civil appeal, Shri Subramonium Prasad, learned senior counsel

 appearing on behalf of the appellant, contends that the present appellant,

 who is the father of Shri Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju, was neither a

 promoter nor a director of SCSL and has since died on 3.12.2007. He was

 a connected person to Shri Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju, being his father,

 but as the shares which stood in his name were sold in August, 2005, he

 could not possibly be a relative of a connected person as Shri Chintalapati

 Srinivasa Raju himself ceased to be a connected person on and from July,

 2003. The minority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal correctly

 appreciates this position in the following manner: 29.This appeal has also to be allowed as even otherwise it follows upon

 allowing of Civil Appeal No.16805 of 2017. CIVIL APPEAL NO.17303 of 2017 30.In this appeal, Shri C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing on

 behalf of the appellant, states that the present appellant is the mother of B.

 Ramalinga Raju, B. Rama Raju and B. Suryanarayana Raju. She was

 neither a promoter nor a director of SCSL and had lost her husband in the

 year 2001. She sold her shares in SCSL on 12 th and 15th December, 2003

 to three group companies, in an off market sale, as she needed money

 considering that she had to sustain herself as a widow. According to Shri

 Sundaram, though his client would be a relative of B. Ramalinga Raju and,

 therefore, a connected person, yet, it is obvious that the off market

 transactions made way back in the year 2003 at a price of around Rs.340/-

 per share did not attract the 1992 Regulations as the price of these shares

 rose sharply only thereafter touching a figure of Rs. 966.80/- in the year

 ending of 2006. According to the learned senior counsel, there was no

 evidence whatsoever of any complicity of this lady with the fraud

 perpetrated by her son and his cohorts. He referred to the judgment of the

 Whole Time Member and to the majority judgment of the Appellate

 Tribunal holding that all that has been found against his client is that she is

 a close relative of B. Ramalinga Raju and by virtue of this close

 relationship, it, therefore, must be presumed that she had access to UPSI.

 Indeed, this is the basis of both the Whole Time Member’s judgment as

 well as the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal. Given the fact that 33 this lady was not proceeded against by the CBI or by the Enforcement

 Directorate and that the SFIO’s report does not, in any manner, refer to

 her, and given the fact that she was neither promoter nor director of SCSL,

 it is obvious that the test of the second part of clause 2(e)(i) is not met in

 the facts of this appeal. Also, it must be remembered that had she been in

 possession of UPSI, she would also have sold shares at their peak price

 instead of selling them at a depressed price in the year 2003. For all these

 reasons, this appeal is also allowed, and the majority judgment of the

 Appellate Tribunal is set aside. CIVIL APPEAL NOs.17313 of 2017 and 17978 of 2017 31.Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing for the

 appellant in Civil Appeal No.17313 of 2017, and Shri Mohan Parasaran,

 learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal

 No.17978 of 2017, have drawn our attention to the fact that their clients,

 being sons of B. Ramalinga Raju, were certainly relatives within the

 meaning of that expression under the 1992 Regulations. However, they

 were neither directors nor promoters of SCSL and were not involved in the

 fraud perpetrated by their father, as has been held in their favour by the

 Appellate Tribunal. Also, the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate did not

 proceed against them and the SFIO’s report says nothing about their

 involvement. Both these brothers sold off their shares in SCSL in August 34 and September, 2005 at a price of roughly Rs. 518/- per share, way below

the price of Rs. 966.80/- at the end of 2006 when their father sold off his

shares. According to them, therefore, the Appellate Tribunal was wrong in

putting 2 and 2 together and making 22 only by virtue of the fact that they

were the sons of B. Ramalinga Raju. Also, insofar as B. Rama Raju (Jr.)

was concerned, the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that he had given a

presentation to the Board of directors of SCSL in the meeting on

26.12.2008 in support of the proposed merger of Maytas Properties

Limited with SCSL is factually incorrect, as has been stated by him in a

subsequent application, and which is not denied by the SEBI. Given the

fact that the second limb of clause 2(e)(i) cannot be put against either of

these appellants, in that there is no evidence of any complicity in the fraud

committed by their father; given the fact that they were expressly

exonerated of the said fraud by the Appellate Tribunal; and given the fact

that they were running independent businesses and were neither directors

nor promoters of SCSL, and that they sold their shares for business

purposes at a price much less than the peak price at which their father

sold shares of SCSL in 2006, no case has been made against them.

Consequently, their appeals also stand allowed and the Appellate Tribunal

judgment is set aside in this behalf. CIVIL APPEAL NO.17997 OF 2017 32.Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

 appellant, states that his client was a company that was incorporated on

 22.6.2006 as a private limited company. According to him, his company

 owned 6,28,83,317 shares of SCSL, which were pledged as security for

 obtaining a loan amount of Rs.1258.88 crores. The said amount was

 borrowed to provide funds to 10 independent companies. Inasmuch as Rs.

 1255 crores out of this sum have admittedly been repaid, partly through

 sale of the pledged shares, according to the learned senior counsel, this

 transaction of pledge cannot possibly drag his client into any violation of

 the 1992 Regulations. 33.Shri C.U. Singh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the SEBI,

 has read to us the majority judgment of the Appellate Tribunal, in which it

 has been held that the amount that was borrowed was utilised to provide

 funds to 10 private limited companies, which were owned by the Raju

 family. Equally, the shareholding pattern of the appellant company, as it

 stood on and from 18.9.2006, made it clear that B. Ramalinga Raju and

 his wife Nandini Raju held 33.11% and 40.52% respectively, whereas the

 balance was held by his brother B. Rama Raju and his wife B. Radha.

 Obviously, therefore, as B. Ramalinga Raju and B. Rama Raju individually

 held more than 10% interest in the appellant company, the appellant

 company is deemed to be a connected person under Regulation 2(h)(ix) of 36 the 1992 Regulations. In this context, the Appellate Tribunal held: 34.We agree with this finding of the majority judgment of the learned

 Appellate Tribunal and, therefore, dismiss this appeal. 37 CIVIL APPEAL NO.17383 of 2017 35.Shri Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant,

 brought to our notice that the said appellant was neither a director nor a

 promoter of SCSL. The shares that were owned by this appellant in SCSL

 were sold by him from 5.2.2001 to 18.11.2004. According to the learned

 senior counsel, his case would be like the case of other family members of

 B. Ramalinga Raju, and any facts that are beyond the show cause notice

 cannot be looked at. According to the learned senior counsel, even

 though it is true that his client was indicted along with B. Ramalinga Raju

 and his brother B. Rama Raju in the SFIO’s report, such report and the

 judgment of the Special Court, Hyderabad cannot be looked at as they are

 not relied upon in the show cause notice. Also, according to the learned

 senior counsel, they are not at all relevant under Sections 40 to 44 of the

 Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and, therefore, cannot be looked at. According

 to the learned senior counsel, adjudication proceedings and criminal

 proceedings are separate and distinct, and one cannot rely upon criminal

 proceedings in adjudication proceedings. For this purpose, he cited Radheshyam Kejriwal v. State of W.B. , (2011) 3 SCC 581, which

 was followed in Videocon Industries Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra ,

 (2016) 12 SCC 315. 36.Shri C.U. Singh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the SEBI,

 drew our attention to Section 246 of the Companies Act, 1956 and stated

 that the SFIO’s report was a report given under the investigatory powers 38 conferred by Section 235 of the said Act. Section 246 of the Companies

 Act, 1956 makes it clear that such report may be received as evidence in

 other cases. Shri Singh, apart from justifying the majority judgment of the

 Appellate Tribunal in the case of this appellant, also read to us extracts

 from the SFIO’s report and from the judgment of the Special Court,

 Hyderabad to show that the appellant was hand in glove with B.

 Ramalinga Raju and his other brother, B. Rama Raju in the fraud

 committed on the public from 2001 onwards. He, therefore, submitted that

 so far as this appellant was concerned, we should uphold the majority

 judgment of the Appellate Tribunal. 37. Section 246 of the Companies Act, 1956 reads as under: 38.From this Section, it is clear that the report can be used as evidence in

 any other proceeding. Even though it is correct to state that this report was

 delivered on 13.4.2009, i.e. before the show cause notice was issued on

 19.6.2009, the mere fact that this was not put against the appellant in the

 show cause notice cannot be any reason for us not to independently view

 the same. The appellant has not chosen to assail the findings contained in

 this report in a writ petition filed before the High Court. Under Section 246 of the Companies Act, 1956, this Court is empowered to look at the same 39 as evidence of the opinion of the inspector concerned in relation to any

matter contained in the report. By virtue of Section 246 , therefore, it is

possible for us to appreciate the role of the appellant in the so-called

Satyam scam. This report points out the following: