Shiva Kumar Deora @ Shiva Ratan Deora, aged about 52
years S/o Late Nand Kishore Deora, resident of
Swarnamani Complex, Tower Zarina, 2nd Floor, Flat 2ZB,
33, Canal Circular Road, Near Bengal Chemical Metro,
P.O.-Maniktala, P.S.-Kankurgachi, District-Kolkata, West
Bengal-700054. ... ... Petitioner
 Versus
Union of India, through Directorate of Enforcement, Ranchi
Zonal Office, Plot No.1502/B, Airport Road, Hinoo, Ranchi,
P.O. + P.S. Doranda, Dist. - Ranchi. CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUJIT NARAYAN PRASAD ------- For the Petitioner : Mr. Vinay Prakash, Advocate
For the Opp. Party : Mr. Amit Kumar Das, Advocate
 Mr. Saurav Kumar, Advocate
 Mr. Varun Girdhar, Advocate
 Mr. Manmohit Bhalla, Advocate ------ C.A.V. on 29/10/2025 Pronounced on 12/11/2025

Prayer: Factual Matrix of the Case 2. An ECIR bearing No. ECIR/RZNO/18/2024 was

recorded on 23.09.2024 based on the Complaint Case

Nos.678 of 2024, 1280 of 2024 and 1281 of 2024 before the

learned Court of Economic Offences, Jamshedpur against

the petitioner and other persons. 3. Subsequently, the prosecuting agency, i.e., the

Directorate of Enforcement while observing that Sections

420 , 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code are scheduled

offences under Part-A, Paragraph 1 of the PML Act, 2002 initiated the investigation under PML Act, 2002 by

registering Enforcement Case Information Report having

ECIR bearing No. ECIR/RZNO/18/2024 dated 23.09.2024. 4. As per aforesaid three complaint cases, it is revealed

that a syndicate is operational in Jharkhand, West Bengal,

Delhi and other States of the Country, Syndicate is

indulged in creation, operation and management of fake

companies / firms for passing on ineligible ITC (Input Tax

Credit) by issuing fake GST bills, without actually delivering 2 2025:JHHC:33869

the related goods and services and the persons namely

Shiva Kumar Deora(present petitioner) Sumit Kumar Gupta

and Amit Kumar Gupta are a part of the said syndicate who

are knowingly a party with each other and or directly

involved in illegal activities of creation of fake companies /

firms in the name of various dummy directors/ proprietors

in order to avail and pass on ITC to several end

beneficiaries in lieu of money, which are proceeds of crime.

Further, it has been stated in the complaints that several

bogus GST invoices have been generated in Delhi and have

traveled to Jharkhand via West Bengal in three to four

layers. 5. A portion of these bogus ITCs have also been

transferred to other states such a Tamil Nadu, Telangana,

Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha and bogus ITC

claims have also been taken on the basis of the said fake

invoices. 6. As per aforesaid complaint case Shiva Kumar Deora

(present petitioner) is the mastermind behind the said fraud

committed of availing ITC on the strength of bogus invoices,

by way of creation of multiple companies/firms in the name

of innocent persons. They hired innocent and needy

persons in the name of job at the renumeration of Rs.

10,000/- to 15,000/- per month and they were not required

attend the office daily. They were asked to provide OTP and 3 2025:JHHC:33869

PIN, whenever required by them. Subsequently, fake firms

and companies were floated in the name of those innocent

needy persons after using their identity, documents,

without their knowledge or consent. 7. Further, it is also revealed that Sumit Kumar

Gupta, the accomplice of present petitioner worked as an

office staff member on his instructions for creating DSCs,

rent agreements for various firms and companies for which,

he was initially paid a monthly salary of Rs. 30,000/-. 8. The Petitioner and his accomplices namely Amit

Kumar Gupta and Sumit Kumar Gupta are beneficial

owners of total 135 shell companies/firms which are floated

in names of various dummy directors and by these firms

they availing fake ITC to the tune of Rs. 750 crores (Approx)

and passed them to several end beneficiaries thereby

causing significant loss to the government exchequer. 9. From the analysis of aforesaid complaints as filed

by DGGI, Jamshedpur, it is revealed that an FIR was

registered against Tutui Debnath, Sumi Shaw and Amit

Agarwal @ Vicky Bhalotia. 10. The Co-accused-Amit Agarwal @ Vicky Bhalotia is

also one of the accomplices of main mastermind Shiva

Kumar Deora who also works on similar modus in availing

fake ITC on strength of bogus invoices. 4 2025:JHHC:33869 11. From the contents of the complaints filed by the

DGGL Jamshedpur, it is revealed that the present

petitioner is one of the prominent members of the syndicate

who is the mastermind behind the said fraud of availing

ITC on strength of bogus invoices, by way of creation of

multiple companies/firms in name of innocent persons. It

is revealed that the present petitioner and his accomplices

namely Amit Kumar Gupta and Sumit Kumar Gupta

adopted systematic modus for claiming ineligible ITC by

way of first identifying poor and needy people and then

luring them in name of jobs in their offices. They were hired

at Rs. 10,000 to 15,000 per month and were not required to

attend the office daily. Instead, they were asked to provide

OTP's and PINs, whenever required by Shiva Kumar Deora

(present petitioner) and his two accomplices. Subsequently,

fake firms and companies were floated in their names using

their identity documents, without their knowledge or

consent. 12. Further, it is revealed that Sumit Kumar Gupta, the

accomplices of the petitioner worked as an office staff

member on his instructions for creating DSCs, rent

agreements, and assisting in opening bank accounts and

obtaining lease licenses, for various firms and companies

for which, he was initially paid a monthly salary of Rs

30,000/-. 5 2025:JHHC:33869 13. Further, from the analysis of materials gathered

during investigation, it is revealed that the petitioner and

his accomplice namely Amit Kumar Gupta and Sumit

Kumar Gupta are beneficial owners of total 135 shell

companies/firms which are floated in names of various

dummy directors. Through the network of the said 135 fake

firms/companies floated by Shiva Kumar Deora, Amit

Kumar Gupta and Sumit Kumar Gupta, they availed fake

ITC to the tune of Rs. 750 crores (approx.) and passed them

to various end beneficiaries thereby causing a significant

loss to the government exchequer. 14. That the abovesaid Shiva Kumar Deora is one of the

directors in seven companies through which, he has availed

the fake ITC worth Rs.55.83 crores. 15. During the course of investigation, it has come that

the present petitioner has received direct cash amounting

Rs.74,60,878 in different bank accounts during between

2020 to 2024. 16. The petitioner was arrested on 08.05.2025, from the

residential house at Kolkata, subsequent to the issuance of

summons under section 50 of the PML Act which has been

served at the petitioner's residence requiring the petitioner

to appear in person for the recording of his statement. The

petitioner was provided Memo of arrest, grounds of arrest

and "reasons to believe". 6 2025:JHHC:33869 17. The petitioner was produced before the learned

Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Calcutta along with

other co-accused, namely, Mohit Deora and Amit Kumar

Gupta at 10:10 PM on the same day by filing Remand

Petition, seeking transit remand of the petitioner and vide

order dated 08.05.2025, the same was allowed by the

learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Calcutta. 18. Thereafter, the present petitioner preferred Misc.

Cri. Application No. 1243 of 2025 for grant of bail which

was rejected, vide order dated 15.07.2025 by the learned

Spl. Judge, PML Act, Ranchi, hence, the instant bail

application. 19. It needs to refer herein that the prosecuting agency

filed the Prosecution Complaint dated 05.07.2025, before

the learned Trial Court and accordingly cognizance of the

offence has been taken by the Court concerned.

Argument advanced by learned senior counsel for the
petitioner: 20. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has

argued inter alia on the following grounds: X. The ground has also been taken on behalf of the

 petitioner by challenging the issue of arrest that at

 the time of arrest the condition stipulated under Section 19(1) of the PML Act, 2002 has not been 9 2025:JHHC:33869

 followed and in order to fortify this limb of

 argument reliance has been placed upon the

 judgment rendered by Hon'ble Apex Court in the

 case of V. Senthil Balaji Vs. State Represented

 by Deputy Director & Ors. [(2024) 3 SCC 51; Prabir Purkayastha Vs. State (NCT of Delhi )

 [2024 SCC OnLine 934; and recently in the case

 of Arvind Kejriwal Vs. Directorate of

 Enforcement [2024 SCC OnLine SC 1703] . XI. Submission has also been made that the statutory

 provision, as contained under Section 19(1) of the

 PML Act, has been clarified by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court while dealing with PML Act, 2002 in the case

 of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs.

 Union of India and Ors. , [(2022) SCC On Line SC

 929]. XII. The petitioner has no antecedent and no other

 criminal proceeding is pending against him. The

 petitioner has been cooperating with the ongoing

 investigation inquiries conducted by the

 prosecution and undertakes to continue doing so.

XIII. The submission has been made that the statement

 recorded under Section 50 of the PML Act of the

 co-accused, who were already in custody cannot be

 used against the present petitioner as per the 10 2025:JHHC:33869

 mandate of judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in the case of Prem Prakash Vs. Union of

 India through the directorate of enforcement

 2024 INSC 637. XIV. Further, it has been contended that there is no

 allegation said to be committed so as to attract the

 offence under Section 3 of the PML Act since there

 is no allegation of laundering of money against the

 petitioner. 21. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner, based

upon the aforesaid grounds, has submitted as per the

ground agitated hereinabove, it is a fit case where the

petitioner is to be given the benefit of privilege of bail.

Argument advanced by learned counsel for the opposite
party-Enforcement Directorate: 22. Per contra, Mr. Amit Kumar Das, the learned

counsel for the opposite party-Enforcement Directorate has

seriously opposed the said submission/ground both based

upon the fact and the law as referred hereinabove, on the

following grounds. I. The submission has been made that the petitioner

 was arrested on 08.05.2025 under Section 19 of PML

 Act, 2002, after recording reasons to believe that the

 petitioner is guilty of the offence of money laundering 11 2025:JHHC:33869

 as defined under Section 3 and punishable under Section 4 of PML Act, 2002. II. It has been contended by referring to Section 3 of the

 PML Act, 2002 that the process or activity connected

 with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and

 continues till such time a person is directly or

 indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its

 concealment or possession or acquisition or use or

 projecting it as untainted property or claiming it as

 untainted property in any manner whatsoever.

III. It is incorrect on the part of the petitioner to take a

 ground that the mandate of Section 19(1) of the Act

 2002 has not followed rather each and every

 document has been supplied, i.e., the grounds of

 arrest and reason to believe which would be evident

 from the documents as appended as Annexure-3

 series showing the acknowledgement of receipt of the

 petitioner on 08.05.2025 . IV. It has been argued that the petitioner has been

 arrested on 08.05.2025 and immediately after arrest,

 he was produced before the learned Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Calcutta on the same day. V. Further, the petitioner has been represented by the

 advocate and the said advocate has contested the

 case. The argument has been advanced in presence 12 2025:JHHC:33869

 of the learned counsel representing the petitioner on

 08.05.2025 before the learned Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Calcutta and in whose presence the

 ground of arrest and reason to believe has been

 submitted for the same on behalf of the learned

 Public Prosecutor appearing for the Enforcement

 Directorate. VI. The learned Court has taken note of the same and

 recording in the said order while rejecting the prayer

 for bail made on behalf of the petitioner.

VII. It has been contended that the purpose of supply of

 grounds of arrest and reason to believe to have the

 access to the judicial system so as not to cause

 prejudice and miscarriage of justice, but in the

 instant case after arrest immediately the petitioner

 was produced before the concerned Court of learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate at Kolkata and the

 petitioner has engaged his counsel who has argued

 the case based upon the ground of arrest and reason

 to believe as has been supplied to him by the

 Enforcement Directorate and in his presence the

 detail order was passed on 08.05.2025, hence, it

 cannot be said on behalf of the petitioner that the

 ground of arrest and reason to believe has not been

 supplied and prejudice has been caused. 13 2025:JHHC:33869

VIII. The learned counsel appearing for the O.P-ED has

 further submitted that since all the parameters of

 arrest, i.e., supply of grounds of arrest and reason to

 believe has already been communicated and

 thereafter producing the petitioner forthwith before

 the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Calcutta

 seeking for transit remand wherein the prayer for bail

 has also been made on behalf of the petitioner being

 represented by the learned counsel, hence, in the

 facts of the present case, the ratio laid down by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of " Pankaj Kumar

 Bansal V. Union of India "(supra) has already been

 complied with. IX. So far as the nature of allegation as has been

 committed by the petitioner is concerned, it has been

 contended that implication of the petitioner is based

 upon the finding mentioned in the prosecution

 complaint dated 05.07.2025 and also based upon the

 evidences of other persons. X. Further it has been submitted by the learned counsel

 for the ED that substantial portions of the proceeds

 of crime remain untraced, unrecovered, and

 potentially in circulation within the financial system.

 The investigation into the identification of the

 complete chain of transactions, the full extent of 14 2025:JHHC:33869

 assets acquired from such tainted funds, and the

 persons/entities involved in their possession and

 concealment is still ongoing, therefore the prayer for

 bail of the present petitioner is not fit ton be allowed

 at this stage. XI. It has been contended that the statement, as has

 been recorded under Section 50 of the PML Act, 2002

 is very much clear of the involvement of the present

 petitioner in relation to commission of crime as

 alleged in ECIR No. ECIR/RNZO/ 18/2024 dated

 23.09.2024. XII. Submission has been made that ground which has

 been advanced that neither the statement of other

 co-accused persons is to be taken into consideration

 since it is recorded while they were in custody but

 the law is otherwise as has been held by Hon'ble

 Apex Court in the case of Rohit Tandon vs.

 Directorate of Enforcement (2018) 11 SCC 46

 wherein the statement if recorded of the co-accused

 persons in custody under Section 50 of the PML Act

 will also have the impact in implicating a person

 under Section 3 of the PML Act and exactly the case

 herein. XIII. It has further been submitted that the contention of

 the learned counsel for the petitioner that addition of 15 2025:JHHC:33869 IPC offence in GST complaint is not permissible is not

 fit to be accepted reason being that a certain act may

 fall within the said special penal statute at the same

 time may also have an element of an offence under IPC . XIV. It has been submitted that the bail application filed

 by the co-accused, namely, Amit Gupta has already

 been rejected by this Court vide order dated

 08.10.2025 passed in B.A No.7476 of 2025.

XV. Further It has been submitted that the prayer for bail

 of the co-accused, namely, Amit Agarwal @ Vicky

 Bhalotia had also been rejected by this Court vide

 order dated 08.10.2025 passed in B.A No.6030 of

 2025 and against the said order, he has approached

 the Hon'ble Apex Court but there also his prayer for

 bail was rejected vide order dated 17.10.2025 passed

 in Special leave to Appeal (Crl.) Nos.16591 of 2025,

 as the Hon'ble Apex Court has not inclined to

 interfere with the order passed by this Court.

XVI. Further it has been submitted that the arrest of the

 Petitioner was lawful, procedurally sound and

 necessitated by the facts of the case and the conduct

 of the Petitioner. The investigation is at a crucial

 stage, and release of the Petitioner at this juncture

 would seriously prejudice the ongoing probe, 16 2025:JHHC:33869

 considering the nature of transactions, documentary

 evidence, and involvement of multiple entities. 23. Learned counsel for the O.P-Enforcement

Directorate, based upon the aforesaid grounds, has

submitted that it is not a fit case where the prayer for bail is

to be allowed taking into consideration the involvement of the

petitioner in directly acquiring the proceeds of crime.

Discussion: 24. This Court has heard the learned counsel for the

parties, gone across the pleading available on record as also

the finding recorded by learned trial court. 25. This Court, before appreciating the argument

advanced on behalf of the parties, deems it fit and proper to

discuss herein some of the provision of law as contained

under the PML Act, 2002 with its object and intent. 26. The Act was enacted to address the urgent need to

have a comprehensive legislation inter alia for preventing

money-laundering, attachment of proceeds of crime,

adjudication and confiscation thereof including vesting of it in

the Central Government, setting up of agencies and

mechanisms for coordinating measures for combating money-

laundering and also to prosecute the persons indulging in the

process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime. 27. It is evident that the PML Act, 2002 was enacted in

order to answer the urgent requirement to have a 17 2025:JHHC:33869

comprehensive legislation inter alia for preventing money-

laundering, attachment of proceeds of crime, adjudication

and confiscation thereof for combating money-laundering and

also to prosecute the persons indulging in the process or

activity connected with the proceeds of crime. 28. It is evident from the definition of "proceeds of

crime" as provided under Section 2(1)(u) of the Act, 2002 that

"proceeds of crime" means any property derived or obtained,

directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal

activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any

such property or where such property is taken or held outside

the country, then the property equivalent in value held within

the country or abroad. 29. In the explanation part of the aforesaid section, it

has been referred that for the removal of doubts, it is hereby

clarified that "proceeds of crime" include property not only

derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but also any

property which may directly or indirectly be derived or

obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the

scheduled offence. 30. It is, thus, evident that the reason for giving

explanation under Section 2(1)(u) is by way of clarification to

the effect that whether as per the substantive provision of Section 2(1)(u) , the property derived or obtained, directly or

indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity 18 2025:JHHC:33869

relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such

property or where such property is taken or held outside the

country but by way of explanation the proceeds of crime has

been given broader implication by including property not only

derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but also any

property which may directly or indirectly be derived or

obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the

scheduled offence. 31. The "property" has been defined under Section

2(1)(v) which means any property or assets of every

description, whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or

immovable, tangible or intangible and includes deeds and

instruments evidencing title to, or interest in, such property

or assets, wherever located. 32. The schedule has been defined under Section 2(1)(x) which means schedule to the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 . 33. It is evident that the "scheduled offence" means the

offences specified under Part A of the Schedule; or the

offences specified under Part B of the Schedule if the total

value involved in such offences is [one crore rupees] or more;

or the offences specified under Part C of the Schedule. 34. The offence of money laundering has been defined

under Section 3 of the PML Act, 2002 wherein it has been

stipulated that whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to 19 2025:JHHC:33869

indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is

actually involved in any process or activity connected with the

[proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession,

acquisition or use and projecting or claiming] it as untainted

property shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering. 35. It is further evident from the aforesaid provision

that "offence of money-laundering" means whosoever directly

or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or

knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or

activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its

concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or

claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of

money-laundering. 36. It is further evident that the process or activity

connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and

continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly

enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or

possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted

property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner

whatsoever. 37. The punishment for money laundering has been

provided under Section 4 of the PML Act, 2002. 38. Further the specific provision has been made under

the PML Act, 2002 to be followed at the time of arrest i.e., the

ground of arrest is to be informed to the person facing the 20 2025:JHHC:33869

accusation as soon as possible that is the original text of Section 19(1) of the Act, 2002. For ready reference, Section

19(1) of the PML Act, 2002 is quoted as under: 39. Further, Section 50 of the PML Act, 2002 confers

power upon the authorities regarding summons, production

of documents and to give evidence. 40. It needs to refer herein that the various provisions

of the Act, 2002 alongwith interpretation of the definition of

"proceeds of crime" has been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors.

Vs. Union of India and Ors. , (supra) wherein the Bench

comprising of Three Hon'ble Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court have decided the issue by taking into consideration the

object and intent of the Act, 2002, as would appear from

paragraph 128, 129 and 130. For ready reference, relevant

paragraph is being referred as under: 41. The implication of Section 50 has also been taken

into consideration. Relevant paragraph, i.e., paragraphs-

327 to 332, 338, 339, 342 are quoted as under: 22 This Court opined that the guarantee in Article 20(3) is against
"testimonial compulsion" and is not limited to oral evidence.
Not only that, it gets triggered if the person is compelled to be
a witness against himself, which may not happen merely
because of issuance of summons for giving oral evidence or
producing documents. Further, to be a witness is nothing more
than to furnish evidence and such evidence can be furnished
by different modes. The Court went on to observe as follows: is nothing more than "to furnish evidence", and such evidence
can be furnished through the lips or by production of a thing
or of a document or in other modes. So far as production of
documents is concerned, no doubt Section 139 of the Evidence
Act says that a person producing a document on summons is
not a witness. But that section is meant to regulate the right of
cross examination. It is not a guide to the connotation of the
word "witness", which must be understood in its natural
sense, i.e., as referring to a person who furnishes evidence.
Indeed, every positive volitional act which furnishes evidence
is testimony, and testimonial compulsion connotes coercion
which procures the positive volitional evidentiary acts of the
person, as opposed to the negative attitude of silence or
submission on his part. Nor is there any reason to think that
the protection in respect of the evidence so procured is
confined to what transpires at the trial in the court room. The
phrase used in article 20(3) is "to be a witness" and not to
"appear as a witness". It follows that the protection afforded
to an accused in so far as it is related to the phrase "to be a
witness" is not merely in respect of testimonial compulsion in
the court room but may well extend to compelled testimony
previously obtained from him. It is available therefore to a
person against whom a formal accusation relating to the
commission of an offence has been levelled which in the
normal course may result in prosecution. Whether it is
available to other persons in other situations does not call for
decision in this case." (emphasis supplied) 338. In the context of the 2002 Act, it must be remembered
that the summon is issued by the Authority under Section 50 in connection with the inquiry regarding proceeds of crime
which may have been attached and pending adjudication
before the Adjudicating Authority. In respect of such action,
the designated officials have been empowered to summon any
person for collection of information and evidence to be
presented before the Adjudicating Authority. It is not
necessarily for initiating a prosecution against the noticee as 25 2025:JHHC:33869

such. The power entrusted to the designated officials under
this Act, though couched as investigation in real sense, is to
undertake inquiry to ascertain relevant facts to facilitate
initiation of or pursuing with an action regarding proceeds of
crime, if the situation so warrants and for being presented
before the Adjudicating Authority. It is a different matter that
the information and evidence so collated during the inquiry
made, may disclose commission of offence of money-
laundering and the involvement of the person, who has been
summoned for making disclosures pursuant to the summons
issued by the Authority. At this stage, there would be no
formal document indicative of likelihood of involvement of such
person as an accused of offence of money laundering. If the
statement made by him reveals the offence of money
laundering or the existence of proceeds of crime, that becomes
actionable under the Act itself. 339.To put it differently, at the stage of recording of statement
for the purpose of inquiring into the relevant facts in
connection with the property being proceeds of crime is, in that
sense, not an investigation for prosecution as such; and in
any case, there would be no formal accusation against the
noticee. Such summons can be issued even to witnesses in the
inquiry so conducted by the authorised officials. However,
after further inquiry on the basis of other material and
evidence, the involvement of such person (noticee) is revealed,
the authorised officials can certainly proceed against him for
his acts of commission or omission. In such a situation, at the
stage of issue of summons, the person cannot claim protection
under Article 20(3) of the Constitution. However, if his/her
statement is recorded after a formal arrest by the ED official,
the consequences of Article 20(3) or Section 25 of the Evidence
Act may come into play to urge that the same being in the
nature of confession, shall not be proved against him. Further,
it would not preclude the prosecution from proceeding against
such a person including for consequences under Section 63 of
the 2002 Act on the basis of other tangible material to indicate
the falsity of his claim. That would be a matter of rule of
evidence. 26 2025:JHHC:33869 342. It is, thus, clear that the power invested in the officials is
 one for conducting inquiry into the matters relevant for
 ascertaining existence of proceeds of crime and the
 involvement of persons in the process or activity connected
 therewith so as to initiate appropriate action against such
 person including of seizure, attachment and confiscation of the
 property eventually vesting in the Central Government." 42. It is evident from the observation so made as above

that the purposes and objects of the 2002 Act for which it

has been enacted, is not limited to punishment for offence

of money-laundering, but also to provide measures for

prevention of money-laundering. It is also to provide for

attachment of proceeds of crime, which are likely to be

concealed, transferred or dealt with in any manner which

may result in frustrating any proceeding relating to

confiscation of such proceeds under the 2002 Act. This Act is also to compel the banking companies, financial

institutions and intermediaries to maintain records of the

transactions, to furnish information of such transactions

within the prescribed time in terms of Chapter IV of the

2002 Act. 43. The predicate offence has been considered in the

aforesaid judgment wherein by taking into consideration

the explanation as inserted by way of Act 23 of 2019 under

the definition of the "proceeds of crime" as contained under Section 2(1)(u) , whereby and whereunder, it has been

clarified for the purpose of removal of doubts that, the 27 2025:JHHC:33869

"proceeds of crime" include property not only derived or

obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property

which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a

result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled

offence, meaning thereby, the words "any property which

may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result

of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence" 44. So far as the purport of Section 45(1)(i)(ii) is

concerned, the aforesaid provision starts from the non-

obstante clause that notwithstanding anything contained in

the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, no person accused

of an offence under this Act shall be released on bail or on

his own bond unless - 45. Sub-section (2) thereof puts limitation on granting

bail specific in subsection (1) in addition to the limitations

under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 or any other

law for the time being in force on granting of bail. 46. The explanation is also there as under sub-section

(2) thereof which is for the purpose of removal of doubts. A

clarification has been inserted that the expression 28 2025:JHHC:33869

"Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable" shall mean

and shall be deemed to have always meant that all offences

under this Act shall be cognizable offences and non-

bailable offences notwithstanding anything to the contrary

contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and

accordingly the officers authorised under this Act are

empowered to arrest an accused without warrant, subject

to the fulfilment of conditions under section 19 and subject

to the conditions enshrined under this section. 47. The fact about the implication of Section 45 has

been interpreted by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay

Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and

Ors. (supra) at paragraphs-268-270. For ready reference,

the said paragraphs are being referred as under: 48. Subsequently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Tarun Kumar vs. Assistant Director Directorate of

Enforcement , (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1486 by taking into

consideration the law laid down by the Larger Bench of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and

Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. (supra), has laid down

that since the conditions specified under Section 45 are

mandatory, they need to be complied with. The Court is

required to be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds

for believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence

and he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. It

has further been observed that as per the statutory

presumption permitted under Section 24 of the Act, the

Court or the Authority is entitled to presume unless the 30 2025:JHHC:33869

contrary is proved, that in any proceedings relating to

proceeds of crime under the Act, in the case of a person

charged with the offence of money laundering under Section

3 , such proceeds of crime are involved in money laundering.

Such conditions enumerated in Section 45 of PML Act will

have to be complied with even in respect of an application

for bail made under Section 439 Cr. P.C. in view of the

overriding effect given to the PML Act over the other law for

the time being in force, under Section 71 of the PML Act. 49. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the said judgment has

further laid down that the twin conditions as to fulfil the

requirement of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 before granting

the benefit of bail is to be adhered to which has been dealt

with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. (supra)

wherein it has been observed that the accused is not guilty

of the offence and is not likely to commit any offence while

on bail. 50. In the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court

in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of

India and Ors. (supra), it has been held that the Authority

under the 2002 Act, is to prosecute a person for offence of

money-laundering only if it has reason to believe, which is

required to be recorded in writing that the person is in

possession of "proceeds of crime". Only if that belief is 31 2025:JHHC:33869

further supported by tangible and credible evidence

indicative of involvement of the person concerned in any

process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime,

action under the Act can be taken to forward for attachment

and confiscation of proceeds of crime and until vesting

thereof in the Central Government, such process initiated

would be a standalone process. 51. So far as the issue of grant of bail under Section 45 of the Act, 2002 is concerned, at paragraph-412 of the

judgment rendered in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and

Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors. (supra) it has been held

therein by making observation that whatever form the relief

is couched including the nature of proceedings, be it under

Section 438 of the 1973 Code or for that matter, by invoking

the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, the underlying

principles and rigors of Section 45 of the 2002 must come

into play and without exception ought to be reckoned to

uphold the objectives of the 2002 Act, which is a special

legislation providing for stringent regulatory measures for

combating the menace of money-laundering. 52. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gautam

Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of

Money-Laundering Act), Government of India through

Manoj Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region,

(2015) 16 SCC 1 has been pleased to hold at paragraph -30 32 2025:JHHC:33869

that the conditions specified under Section 45 of PML Act,

2002are mandatory and need to be complied with, which is

further strengthened by the provisions of Section 65 and

also Section 71 of PML Act, 2002. Section 65 requires that

the provisions of Cr.P.C shall apply insofar as they are not

inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and Section 71 provides that the provisions of PML Act, 2002 shall have

overriding effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent

therewith contained in any other law for the time being in

force. PML Act, 2002 has an overriding effect and the

provisions of CrPC would apply only if they are not

inconsistent with the provisions of this Act. 53. Therefore, the conditions enumerated in Section 45 of PML Act, 2002 will have to be complied with even in

respect of an application for bail made under Section 439 CrPC. That coupled with the provisions of Section 24

provides that unless the contrary is proved, the authority or

the Court shall presume that proceeds of crime are involved

in money-laundering and the burden to prove that the

proceeds of crime are not involved, lies on the appellant. 54. It requires to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex

Court in Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI and Anr. , (2022)

10 SCC 51 has passed the order that if the investigation

has been completed and if there is full cooperation of the

accused persons, there may not be any arrest. The Hon'ble 33 2025:JHHC:33869

Apex Court categorised the offences in different group for

purpose of bail. The reference may be taken from Paragraph -2 of the aforesaid judgment which reads as under: D(5)], Companies Act , [Section 212(6)], etc. (D)
 Economic offences not covered by Special Acts.
 REQUISITE CONDITIONS
 (1) Not arrested during investigation. 34 2025:JHHC:33869

(2) Cooperated throughout in the investigation
including appearing before investigating officer
whenever called. (No need to forward such an accused along with the
charge-sheet ( Siddharth v. State of U.P. [Siddharth v. State of U.P., (2022) 1 SCC 676 : (2022) 1 SCC
(Cri) 423] )
 CATEGORY A
After filing of charge-sheet/complaint taking of
cognizance (a) Ordinary summons at the 1st instance/including
permitting appearance through lawyer. (b) If such an accused does not appear despite
service of summons, then bailable warrant for
physical appearance may be issued. (c) NBW on failure to appear despite issuance of
bailable warrant. (d) NBW may be cancelled or converted into a
bailable warrant/summons without insisting
physical appearance of the accused, if such an
application is moved on behalf of the accused before
execution of the NBW on an undertaking of the
accused to appear physically on the next date/s of
hearing. (e) Bail applications of such accused on appearance
 may be decided without the accused being taken in
 physical custody or by granting interim bail till the
 bail application is decided. CATEGORIES B/D
On appearance of the accused in court pursuant to
process issued bail application to be decided on
merits. CATEGORY C
Same as Categories B and D with the additional
condition of compliance of the provisions of Bail
under NDPS ( Section 37 ), Section 45 of the PMLA, Section 212(6) of the Companies Act, Section 43-D(5)
of the UAPA, POSCO, etc. 35 2025:JHHC:33869 55. However, the Hon'ble Apex Court recently in the

case of Gurwinder Singh vs. State of Punjab and Anr. ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 109, in the matter of UAP Act 1967

has observed that the conventional idea in bail

jurisprudence vis-à-vis ordinary penal offences that the

discretion of Courts must tilt in favour of the oft-quoted

phrase - 'bail is the rule, jail is the exception' - unless

circumstances justify otherwise - does not find any place

while dealing with bail applications under UAP Act and the

'exercise' of the general power to grant bail under the UAP

Act is severely restrictive in scope. For ready reference,

relevant paragraph of the said judgment is being referred as

under: 56. The reason for making reference of this judgment is

that in the Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI and Anr (supra)'s judgment, the UAPA has also been brought under 36 2025:JHHC:33869

the purview of category 'c' wherein while laying observing

that in the UAPA Act , it comes under the category 'c' which

also includes money laundering offences wherein the bail

has been directed to be granted if the investigation is

complete but the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gurwinder Singh

vs. State of Punjab and Anr. (supra) has taken the view by

making note that the penal offences as enshrined under the

provision of UAPA are also under category 'c' making

reference that jail is the rule and bail is the exception. 57. In the backdrop of the aforesaid legal provisions and

settled law this court is now adverting to merit of the case.

Issue of legality of Arrest 58. Now coming to the ground as has been raised on

behalf of the petitioner that at the time of arrest the

condition stipulated under Section 19(1) of the PML Act,

2002 has not been followed hence the very arrest of the

petitioner is per se illegal and in that view of the matter the

order of arrest is fit to be quashed and set aside and in

consequence thereof, petitioner may be directed to be

released from judicial custody. 59. Per contra, the learned counsel for the O.P-ED has

submitted that it is incorrect on the part of the petitioner to

take the ground that the mandate of Section 19(1) of the Act

2002 has not been followed, rather the reason for arrest has

been communicated along with the exhaustive grounds, the 37 2025:JHHC:33869

day when the petitioner was arrested, which would be

evident from running annexure -3 series which has been

appended with the instant Bail Application in which the

entire details has been furnished regarding the the reason

to believe for arrest of the present petitioner. 60. In the aforesaid context, it needs to refer herein the

core of the Section 19 the Act 2002, for ready reference the

same is being quoted as under: (2) the director, deputy director, assistant director or
 any other officer shall, immediately after arrest of
 such person under sub-section (1), forward a copy of
 the order along with the material in his possession,
 referred to in that sub-section, to the adjudicating
 authority, in a sealed envelope, in the manner as
 may be prescribed and such adjudicating authority
 shall keep such order and material for such period,
 as may be prescribed. (3) every person arrested
 under sub-section (1) shall, within twenty-four
 hours, be taken to a 78[special court or] judicial
 magistrate or a metropolitan magistrate, as the case
 may be, having jurisdiction: 61. It is evident from perusal of the Section 19 of PMLA

which gives the power to arrest if the officer concerned has

"reason to believe" on the basis of material in his

possession, that the person is guilty. As per Section 19 the

arrest has to be on the basis of material in possession with

the ED, there is reason to believe that the accused is guilty

of the offence, with the reason recorded in writing and the

grounds for arrest should be communicated with the

accused. 62. As discussed herein above the entire PML Act, 2002 fell for consideration before the three-Judge Bench of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. (supra)

wherein the provision of Section 19(1) has also been taken

into consideration, which would be evident from

paragraphs, which reads as under: Section 19(1) of the 2002 Act postulates that after
 arrest, as soon as may be, the person should be
 informed about the grounds for such arrest. This
 stipulation is compliant with the mandate of Article
 22(1) of the Constitution. Being a special legislation
 and considering the complexity of the
 inquiry/investigation both for the purposes of
 initiating civil action as well as prosecution, non 39 2025:JHHC:33869

supply of ECIR in a given case cannot be faulted. The
ECIR may contain details of the material in
possession of the authority and recording satisfaction
of reason to believe that the person is guilty of money
laundering offence, if revealed before the
inquiry/investigation required to proceed against the
property being proceeds of crime including to the
person involved in the process or activity connected
therewith, may have deleterious impact on the final
outcome of the inquiry/investigation. So long as the
person has been informed about grounds of his arrest
that is sufficient compliance of mandate of Article
22(1) of the Constitution. Moreover, the arrested
person before being produced before the Special Court
within twenty-four hours or for that purposes of
remand on each occasion, the court is free to look into
the relevant records made available by the authority
about the involvement of the arrested person in the
offence of money laundering. In any case, upon filing
of the complaint before the statutory period provided
in the 1973 Code, after arrest, the person would get
all relevant materials forming part of the complaint
filed by the authority under Section 44(1)(b) of the
2002 Act before the Special Court. 372. Viewed thus, supply of ECIR in every case to the
person concerned is not mandatory. From the
submissions made across the Bar, it is noticed that in
some cases ED has furnished copy of ECIR to the
person before filing of the complaint. That does not
mean that in every case same procedure must be
followed. It is enough, if ED at the time of arrest,
contemporaneously discloses the grounds of such
arrest to such person. Suffice it to observe that ECIR
cannot be equated with an FIR which is mandatorily
required to be recorded and supplied to the accused
as per the provisions of the 1973 Code. Revealing a
copy of an ECIR, if made mandatory, may defeat the
purpose sought to be achieved by the 2002 Act 40 2025:JHHC:33869

 including frustrating the attachment of property
 (proceeds of crime). Non-supply of ECIR, which is
 essentially an internal document of ED, cannot be
 cited as violation of constitutional right. Concededly,
 the person arrested, in terms of Section 19 of the
 2002 Act, is contemporaneously made aware about
 the grounds of his arrest. This is compliant with the
 mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution. 63. It is evident from the aforesaid consideration as

referred in the aforesaid judgment that once the person is

informed of the grounds of arrest, that would be sufficient

compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the

Constitution and it is not necessary that a copy of the ECIR

be supplied in every case to the person concerned, as such,

a condition is not mandatory and it is enough if ED

discloses the grounds of arrest to the person concerned at

the time of arrest. 64. It needs to refer herein the judgment which has

come in the case of V. Senthil Balaji Vs. State

Represented by Deputy Director & Ors. (supra) which

was passed on 07.08.2023 wherein consideration has been

given with respect to the issue of Section 19(1) holding

therein that that after forming a reason to believe that the

person has been guilty of an offence punishable under

PMLA, the officer concerned is at liberty to arrest him, while

performing his mandatory duty of recording the reasons,

and that the said exercise has to be followed by way of an 41 2025:JHHC:33869

information being served on the arrestee of the grounds of

arrest. 65. Subsequent thereto, the matter has again come

before the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Pankaj Bansal

Vs. Union of India & Ors (supra), wherein the factual

aspect pertaining to the said case was that no written

communication was made and only on the basis of oral

communication of reason of arrest, the said Pankaj Bansal

has taken into custody, which would be evident from

discussion of the factual aspect, which would be evident

from following paragraphs of the judgment, which reads as

under: 3. Significantly, prior to this FIR, between the years
 2018 and 2020, 13 FIRs were gotten registered by
 allottees of two residential projects of the IREO Group,
 alleging illegalities on the part of its management. On
 the strength of these FIRs, ED recorded Enforcement
 Case Information Report No. GNZO/10/2021 dated
 15-6-2021 (hereinafter "the first ECIR") in connection 42 2025:JHHC:33869

with the money laundering offences allegedly
committed by the IREO Group and Lalit Goyal, its
Vice-Chairman and Managing Director. Neither in the
FIRs nor in the first ECIR were M3M Group or the
appellants herein arrayed as the accused. Further, no
allegations were levelled against them therein. On 14-
1-2022, ED filed Prosecution Complaint No. 01/2022,
titled " Enforcement Directorate v. Lalit Goyal and
others ", against seven named accused, under Section
200CrPC read with Sections 44 and 45 PMLA.
Notably, M3M Group and the appellants did not figure
amongst those named accused. The number of FIRs
had also increased from 13 to 30, as per this
complaint. This case was numbered as
COMA/01/2022, titled " Enforcement Directorate v.
Lalit Goyal and others ", and was pending in the
Court of Sudhir Parmar, Special Judge. At that stage,
the Anti Corruption Bureau, Panchkula, received
information that Sudhir Parmar was showing
favouritism to Lalit Goyal, the owner of IREO Group,
and also to Roop Bansal and his brother, Basant
Bansal, the owners of M3M Group. This led to the
registration of FIR No. 0006 dated 17-4-2023. On 12-
5-2023, ED issued summons to M3M India Pvt. Ltd.,
calling upon it to provide information and documents
pertaining to transactions with certain companies.
Thereafter, on 1-6-2023, ED raided the properties of
M3M Group and effected seizures of assets and bank
accounts. Roop Bansal was arrested by ED on 8-6-
2023 apropos the first ECIR. 4. Apprehending that
action would be taken against them also in the
context of the first ECIR, Pankaj Bansal and Basant
Bansal secured [ Basant Bansal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), (2023) 2 HCC (Del) 700] , [Pankaj Bansal v.
State (NCT of Delhi), 2023 SCC OnLine Del 3590]
interim protection from the Delhi High Court in Bail
Applications Nos. 2030 and 2031 of 2023. By
separate orders dated 9-6-2023 [Basant Bansal v. 43 2025:JHHC:33869

State (NCT of Delhi), (2023) 2 HCC (Del) 700] passed
therein, the Delhi High Court noted that Pankaj
Bansal and Basant Bansal had not been named in
the first ECIR and that ED had not yet been able to
implicate them in any of the scheduled offences under
the 2002 Act. Further, the High Court noted that
Pankaj Bansal had not even been summoned by ED
in that case. The High Court accordingly granted them
interim protection by way of anticipatory bail, subject
to conditions, till the next date of hearing i.e. 5-7-
2023. Special Leave Petitions (Crl.) Nos. 7384 and
7396 of 2023 were filed by ED assailing the orders
dated 9-6 2023 [ Basant Bansal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), (2023) 2 HCC (Del) 700] , [Pankaj Bansal v.
State (NCT of Delhi), 2023 SCC OnLine Del 3590] ,
[Basant Bansal v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2023) 2 HCC
(Del) 700] before this Court and the same are stated
to be pending. 5. In the meanwhile, on the basis of
FIR No. 0006 dated 17-4-2023, ED recorded another
ECIR viz. ECIR/GNZO/17/2023, on 13-6-2023
(hereinafter "the second ECIR") against: (i) Mr Sudhir
Parmar; (ii) Mr Ajay Parmar; (iii) Mr Roop Bansal; and (iv) others who are named in the FIR/unknown
persons. 6. However, summons were issued by ED to
Pankaj Bansal and Basant Bansal on 13-6-2023 at
6.15 p.m. in relation to the first ECIR, requiring them
to appear before ED on 14-6-2023 at 11.00 a.m.
Though the copy of the summons placed before this
Court pertains to Pankaj Bansal alone, the email
dated 13-6-2023 of the Assistant Director of ED,
bearing the time 6.15 p.m., was addressed to both
Pankaj Bansal and Basant Bansal and required their
compliance with the summons on 14-6-2023 at 11
a.m. While Pankaj Bansal and Basant Bansal were at
the office of ED at Rajokri, New Delhi, in compliance
with these summons, Pankaj Bansal was served with
fresh summons at 4.52 p.m. on 14-6-2023, requiring
him to be present before another investigating officer 44 2025:JHHC:33869

at 5.00 p.m. on the same day. This summons was in
connection with the second ECIR. There is lack of
clarity as to when summons in relation to the second
ECIR were served on Basant Bansal. According to
ED, he was served the summons on 13-6 2023 itself
and refused to receive the same. However, it is an
admitted fact that Basant Bansal was also present at
ED's office at Rajokri, New Delhi, on 14-6-2023 at
11.00 a.m. It is also not in dispute that, while he was
there, Basant Bansal was arrested at 6.00 p.m. on
14-6-2023 and Pankaj Bansal was arrested at 10.30
p.m. on the same day. These arrests, made in
connection with the second ECIR, were in exercise of
power under Section 19(1) PMLA. The arrested
persons were then taken to Panchkula, Haryana, and
produced before the learned Vacation
Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula. There,
they were served with the remand application filed by
ED. 10. It was the specific case of the father and son
in their writ petitions before the High Court that their
arrest under the provisions of PMLA was a wanton
abuse of power/authority and an abuse of process by
ED, apart from being blatantly illegal and
unconstitutional. They also asserted that ED acted in
violation of the safeguards provided in Section 19 PMLA. In this milieu, they made the following prayers: 66. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid pretext has

laid down the proposition to communicate the reasons for

arrest in writing by making reference of word 'henceforth'.

The Hon'ble Apex Court while considering the particular

case of said Pankaj Bansal has considered the admitted

position that the investigating officer merely read out or

permitted reading of the grounds of arrest of the appellants

and left it at that, which is also disputed by the appellants

and hence, it has been held that their arrest was not in 46 2025:JHHC:33869

keeping with the provisions of Section 19(1) PMLA, 2002.

Accordingly, the appeals before the Hon'ble Apex Court were

allowed, setting aside the impugned orders passed by High

Court as well as the impugned arrest orders and arrest

memos along with the orders of remand passed by the

learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, and all

orders consequential thereto. Accordingly, the appellants

were directed to be released forthwith. For ready reference,

the relevant paragraph is quoted as under: 2025:JHHC:33869 45. On the above analysis, to give true meaning and
purpose to the constitutional and the statutory
mandate of Section 19(1) PMLA of informing the
arrested person of the grounds of arrest, we hold that
it would be necessary, henceforth, that a copy of such
written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested
person as a matter of course and without exception.
The decisions of the Delhi High Court in Moin Akhtar
Qureshi [Moin Akhtar Qureshi v. Union of India , 2017
SCC OnLine Del 12108] and the Bombay High Court
in Chhagan Chandrakant Bhujbal [Chhagan
Chandrakant Bhujbal v. Union of India , 2016 SCC
OnLine Bom 9938 : (2017) 1 AIR Bom R (Cri) 929] ,
which hold to the contrary, do not lay down the
correct law. In the case on hand, the admitted
position is that ED's investigating officer merely read
out or permitted reading of the grounds of arrest of
the appellants and left it at that, which is also
disputed by the appellants. As this form of
communication is not found to be adequate to fulfil
compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the
Constitution and Section 19(1) PMLA, we have no
hesitation in holding that their arrest was not in
keeping with the provisions of Section 19(1) PMLA.
Further, as already noted supra, the clandestine
conduct of ED in proceeding against the appellants,
by recording the second ECIR immediately after they
secured interim protection in relation to the first ECIR,
does not commend acceptance as it reeks of arbitrary
exercise of power. In effect, the arrest of the
appellants and, in consequence, their remand to the
custody of ED and, thereafter, to judicial custody,
cannot be sustained. 46.The appeals are accordingly allowed, setting aside
the impugned orders [ Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India ,
2023 SCC OnLine P&H 2045] , [Pankaj Bansal v.
Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine P&H 2028] passed
by the Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana 48 2025:JHHC:33869

 High Court as well as the impugned arrest orders and
 arrest memos along with the orders of remand passed
 by the learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions
 Judge, Panchkula, and all orders consequential
 thereto. 47. The appellants shall be released forthwith unless
 their incarceration is validly required in connection
 with any other case.‖ 67. Subsequent to the said judgment, the judgment has

come in the case of Ram Kishor Arora Vs. Directorate of

Enforcement [2023 SCC OnLine SC 1682]. The Hon'ble

Apex Court while taking in to consideration the judgment

passed by Vijay Madanlal Choudhary v. Union of India (supra) has observed that the law laid down by the three-

Judge Bench in " Vijay Madanlal Choudhary " (supra) that Section 19(1) PMLA has a reasonable nexus with the

purposes and objects sought to be achieved by the PML Act and that the said provision is also compliant with the

mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India, any

observation made or any finding recorded by the Division

Bench of lesser number of Judges contrary to the said ratio laid down in " Vijay Madanlal Choudhary " (supra) would

be not in consonance with the jurisprudential wisdom

expounded by the Constitution Benches. For ready

reference the relevant paragraph is being quoted as under : Union of India, (2023) 12 SCC 1 : 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 929] having already examined in detail the
 constitutional validity of Section 19 PMLA on the
 touchstone of Article 22(1) and upheld the same, it
 holds the field as on the date. 68. Further, The Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid

judgment while taking in to consideration the judgment

passed in the case of Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India &

Ors (supra), come out with a view that since by way of

safeguard a duty is cast upon the officer concerned to

forward a copy of the order along with the material in his

possession to the adjudicating authority immediately after

the arrest of the person, and to take the person arrested to

the court concerned within 24 hours of the arrest, in our

opinion, the reasonably convenient or reasonably requisite

time to inform the arrestee about the grounds of his arrest

would be twenty-four hours of the arrest. However, the 50 2025:JHHC:33869

Hon'ble Apex Court refused to invalidate the arrest of said

Ram Kishor Arora. For ready reference, the relevant

paragraph of the judgment is quoted as under: four hours of his arrest, that would be sufficient 51 2025:JHHC:33869

 compliance of not only Section 19 PMLA but also of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. 23. As
 discernible from the judgment in Pankaj Bansal case
 [ Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India , (2024) 7 SCC 576]
 also noticing the inconsistent practice being followed
 by the officers arresting the persons under Section 19 PMLA, directed to furnish the grounds of arrest in
 writing as a matter of course, "henceforth", meaning
 thereby from the date of the pronouncement of the
 judgment. The very use of the word "henceforth"
 implied that the said requirement of furnishing
 grounds of arrest in writing to the arrested person as
 soon as after his arrest was not mandatory or
 obligatory till the date of the said judgment . The
 submission of the learned Senior Counsel Mr Singhvi
 for the appellant that the said judgment was required
 to be given effect retrospectively cannot be accepted
 when the judgment itself states that it would be
 necessary "henceforth" that a copy of such written
 grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person
 as a matter of course and without exception. Hence,
 non-furnishing of grounds of arrest in writing till the
 date of pronouncement of judgment in Pankaj Bansal case [ Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India , (2024) 7 SCC
 576] could neither be held to be illegal nor the action
 of the officer concerned in not furnishing the same in
 writing could be faulted with. As such, the action of
 informing the person arrested about the grounds of
 his arrest is a sufficient compliance of Section 19 PMLA as also Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India,
 as held in Vijay Madanlal [Vijay Madanlal Choudhary
 v. Union of India , (2023) 12 SCC 1 : 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 929] . 69. Thereafter, the Hon'ble Apex Court has considered

the issue of Section 19(1) in the case of Prabir

Purkayastha Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) (supra) wherein the 52 2025:JHHC:33869

Hon'ble Apex Court has passed the order of release of said

Prabir Purkayastha, the appellant in the said case, on the

ground that no reason said to be in writing was

communicated even though the law has been laid down in the case of Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India & Ors (supra). 70. So far as the fact of the said case is concerned the

officers of PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony, New Delhi carried

out extensive raids at the residential and official premises of

the appellant and the company, of which the appellant is

the Director in connection with FIR No. 224 of 2023 dated

17-8-2023 registered at PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony, New

Delhi for the offences punishable under Sections 13 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 22-C of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967

read with Sections 153-A, 120-B of the Penal Code. 71. The appellant was arrested in connection with the

said FIR on 3-10-2023 vide arrest memo. Thereafter, the

appellant was presented in the court of the learned

Additional Sessions Judge-02, Patiala House Courts, New

Delhi on 4-10-2023, sometime before 6.00 a.m. which fact

is manifested from the remand order and the appellant was

remanded to seven days' police custody vide order dated 4-

10-2023. The proceedings of remand have been seriously

criticised as being manipulated by Shri Kapil Sibal, learned 53 2025:JHHC:33869

Senior Counsel for the appellant and aspersions of

subsequent insertions in the remand order have been made. 72. The appellant promptly questioned his arrest and

the police custody remand granted by the learned Remand

Judge vide order dated 4-10-2023 by preferring Criminal

Miscellaneous Case No. 7278 of 2023 in the High Court of

Delhi which stands rejected by the learned Single Judge of

the High Court of Delhi vide judgment dated 13-10-2023.

The said order is subjected to challenge by special leave

before the Hon"ble Apex Court. 73. The Hon'ble Apex Court has taken into

consideration the ratio of the judgment rendered in the case

of Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India & Ors (supra). The

arrest of the said appellant was on 03.10.2023 but the

judgment rendered in the case of Pankaj Bansal Vs.

Union of India & Ors (supra) has been uploaded on

04.10.2023 and as such the ground was taken not to give

any aid of judgment passed in the case of Pankaj Bansal

Vs. Union of India & Ors (supra) even though the written

communication regarding the ground of arrest of the

appellant has not been furnished but the Hon'ble Apex

Court has passed the order that merely because the

judgment in the case of Pankaj Bansal Vs. Union of India

& Ors (supra) has been uploaded on 04.10.2023 but the

said Prabir Purkayastha was arrested on 04.10.2023 while 54 2025:JHHC:33869

the judgment passed in the case of Pankaj Bansal Vs.

Union of India & Ors (supra) was delivered on 03.10.2023

and as such the case of Prabir Purkayastha has come

within the ratio of judgment rendered in the case of Pankaj

Bansal Vs. Union of India & Ors (supra) and since the

written communication was not there, hence, he was

directed to be released on bail, for ready reference the

relevant paragraph is being quoted as under:: Reference was made to the observations of this Court
in Roy V.D. v. State of Kerala17 that the right to be
informed about the grounds of arrest flows from Article 22(1) of the Constitution and any infringement
of this fundamental right vitiates the process of arrest
and remand. The fact that the chargesheet has been
filed in the matter would not validate the otherwise
illegality and unconstitutionality committed at the
time of arrest and grant of remand custody of the
accused. Reference is also made to the principle
behind Article 22(5) of the Constitution. Thus, this
Court held that not complying with the constitutional
mandate under Article 22(1) and the statutory
mandate of the UAPA, on the requirement to
communicate grounds of arrest or grounds of
detention, would lead to the custody or detention
being rendered illegal. 28. Providing the written "grounds of arrest", though
a must, does not in itself satisfy the compliance
requirement. The authorized officer's genuine belief
and reasoning based on the evidence that establishes
the arrestee's guilt is also the legal necessity. As the
"reasons to believe" are accorded by the authorised 57 2025:JHHC:33869

 officer, the onus to establish satisfaction of the said
 condition will be on the DoE and not on the arrestee. 75. Further the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of V.

Senthil Balaji v. Director , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2626

has again considered the issue of Section 19(1) of the Act

2002. The factual aspect of the case is like that between

2011 and 2016; the appellant was holding the post of

Transport Minister in the Government of Tamil Nadu.

Broadly, the allegation against the appellant is that while

discharging his duties as a Minister, in connivance with his

personal assistant and his brother, he collected large

amounts by promising job opportunities to several persons

in various positions in the Transport Department. This led

to the registering of three First Information Reports against

the appellant and others. The said First Information Reports

are FIR no. 441 of 2015 dated 29th October 2015 (CC Nos.

22 and 24 of 2021), FIR No. 298 of 2017 registered on 9 th

September 2017 (CC No. 19 of 2020) and FIR no. 344 dated

13th August 2018 (CC No. 25 of 2020). 76. In the first FIR, six charge sheets have been filed.

More than 2000 accused have been named in the charge

sheets. 550 witnesses have been named. In the case of the

second FIR, there are 14 accused named in the

chargesheet. In connection with this FIR, 24 witnesses have

been cited. In the third FIR, 24 accused have been named in 58 2025:JHHC:33869

the charge sheet and 50 prosecution witnesses have been

cited. The offences alleged in the aforementioned crimes are

mainly under Sections 120B, 419, 420, 467 and 471 of the

Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 7 , 12 , 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Section 34 of the Penal Code, 1860 has been invoked. 77. These offences are scheduled offences within the

meaning of Section 2(y) of the PMLA. Therefore, relying on

the final reports filed in aforementioned scheduled offences,

for an offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the

PMLA punishable under Section 4 , the Enforcement

Directorate (ED) registered an Enforcement Case

Information Report (for short-ECIR‖) bearing ECIR No.

MDSZO/21/2021 on 29th July 2021. 78. Consequently, the appellant was arrested on 14th

June 2023 in connection with the said ECIR and was

remanded to judicial custody. A complaint was filed for the

offence under Section 3 of the PMLA Act, which is

punishable under Section 4 , on 12th August 2023. The

appellant is the only accused named in the complaint.

Cognizance has been taken based on the complaint by the

Special Court under the PMLA. The scheduled offences

cases have been transferred to the learned Assistant

Sessions Judge, Additional Special Court for Trial of

Criminal Cases related to Elected Members of Parliament 59 2025:JHHC:33869

and Members of Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu (Special

MPMLA Court), Chennai. 79. The Hon'ble Apex Court while taking note of the

settled principle that the stringent provisions regarding the

grant of bail, such as Section 45(1)(iii) of the PMLA, cannot

become a tool which can be used to incarcerate the accused

without trial for an unreasonably long time has allowed the

appeal and direction has been passed that the appellant

shall be enlarged on bail till the final disposal of the case. 80. Consequent to the aforesaid judgments recently the

Hon'ble Apex Court has expressed its view in the case of

Vihaan Kumar v. State of Haryana 2025 SCC OnLine

SC 269, wherein the judgment and order dated 30th August

2024 passed by the learned Single Judge of Punjab and

Haryana High Court has been assailed. The appellant of the

said case was arrested in connection with first information

report no. 121 of 2023 dated 25th March 2023 registered for

the offences under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468 and 471

read with Section 120 B of the Penal Code, 1860 (for short,

" IPC "). According to the appellant's case, he was arrested on

10th June 2024 at about 10.30 a.m. at his office premises

on the 3rd-5th floor of HUDA City Centre, Gurugram,

Haryana. He was taken to DLF Police Station, Section 29 ,

Gurugram. He was produced before the learned Judicial 60 2025:JHHC:33869

Magistrate (in charge) at Gurgaon on 11th June 2024 at

3.30 PM. 81. It had been contended that there was a violation of Article 22(2) of the Constitution and Section 57 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short, " CrPC "). The

allegation is that neither in the remand report nor in the

order dated 11th June 2024 passed by the learned

Magistrate was the time of arrest mentioned. The FIR was

registered at the instance of the 2nd respondent. 82. Further, in the aforesaid case a vital issue was

emerged when the learned counsel appearing for the

appellant produced photographs which showed that while

he was admitted to the hospital, he was handcuffed and

chained to the hospital bed. Therefore, a notice was issued

on 4th October 2024 to the Medical Superintendent of

PGIMS, calling upon him to file an affidavit stating whether

the appellant was handcuffed and chained to the hospital

bed. The order dated 21st October 2024 records the

admission of the Medical Superintendent of PGIMS that

when the appellant was admitted to the hospital, he was

handcuffed and chained to the bed. 83. The Hon'ble Apex Court while taking in to

consideration the mandate of Article 22 of the Constitution

of India has held that the requirement of informing the

person arrested of the grounds of arrest is not a formality 61 2025:JHHC:33869

but a mandatory constitutional requirement. Article 22 is

included in Part III of the Constitution under the heading of

Fundamental Rights. Thus, it is the fundamental right of

every person arrested and detained in custody to be

informed of the grounds of arrest as soon as possible. The

Hon'ble Apex Court has further observed as under: Therefore, the police should always scrupulously
 comply with the requirements of Article 22. 84. It is, thus, evident that in all these judgments the

issue at the time of arrest was the primary factor, which

was questioned before the Hon'ble Apex Court and the same

has been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in those

judgments. 62 2025:JHHC:33869 85. It is, thus, evident from the cumulative

consideration of the judgment rendered by Hon'ble Apex

Court, as referred above, that the law under statutory

provision as contained under Section 19(1) of the PML Act,

2002 is that the reason is to be communicated to the

person concerned then only the arrest would be said to be

valid. 86. We are conscious that in any nature of arrest the

mandatory requirement is to be fulfilled. Herein, the

mandatory requirement as per Article 19(1) of the PML Act,

2002 coupled with the judgment as referred hereinabove by

laying down the ratio to communicate the reason for arrest

in writing and as such we have to consider as to whether

the said statutory command in the facts and circumstances

of the present case has been followed or not, if yes, then the

arrest cannot be held to be invalid and if no, then certainly

the arrest would be held to be invalid. 87. Now, adverting to the factual aspect of the present

case and on consideration of the submissions advanced on

behalf of petitioner, we have gone through the record

particularly annexure-3 series appended with the instant

petition/application wherefrom it is evident that petitioner

was arrested on 08.05.2025 and thereafter as per the

admitted fact, he has been produced forthwith before the

learned C.J.M, Calcutta for transit remand. From annexure 63 2025:JHHC:33869 -3 it appears that arrest of the petitioner was made on

08.05.2025 under Section 19 of the Act 2002 after

recording detail "reasons to believe" based on material

which indicates the petitioner's involvement in the alleged

crime. 88. It is further evident that the contemporaneous

record including arrest memo, and the grounds of arrest

documents bear the signature of the petitioner which

stands as irrefutable proof of service and acknowledgement

at the time of arrest and the arrest of the petitioner was

communicated to Ms. Manjari Deora (daughter-in-law). It is

further evident that the present petitioner was arrested on

08.05.2025 at 7.15 P.M. and the ground of the arrest and

"reason to believe" was handed over to him which was

acknowledged by him. 89. Further, as per the submission of the learned

counsel for the ED, the petitioner was produced before the

learned CJM, Calcutta within statutory 24-hour period and

the learned Court of CJM after due consideration found the

arrest to be proper and granted the transit remand. 90. Thus from the aforesaid it is evident that in the

instant case after arrest immediately the petitioner was

produced before the concerned court of learned Chief

Judicial Magistrate at Calcutta and the ground of arrest

and reason to believe as has been supplied to him by the 64 2025:JHHC:33869

Enforcement Directorate and in his presence the detail

order was passed on 08.05.2025, hence, it cannot be said

on behalf of the petitioner that the mandate as stipulated

under Section 19(1) has not been followed. 91. Thus, it is evident from the record that the

petitioner was arrested on 08.05.2025 and admittedly he

was produced before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Calcutta on the same day for seeking transit remand for his

production in the Court of PMLA, Ranchi in the State of

Jharkhand. 92. On the basis of discussion made herein above, it is

evident from the record that the petitioner was informed

about the ground of arrest immediately by the Enforcement

Directorate with his acknowledgement. Further, it is also an

admitted position that within 24 hours of the arrest, the

arrestee was produced before the learned CJM Court for

transit remand therefore the legal requirement of informing

the grounds of arrested "as soon as may be" also stood

fulfilled as per the statutory requirement under S. 19(1) of

the PMLA as well as the constitutional mandate under Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. Thus, as per the of

mandate of Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) has been complied with by the

respondent. So far the "reason to believe" is concerned the

same has also been complied with and the acknowledgment 65 2025:JHHC:33869

to this effect was obtained. Hence, the law as it prevailed

on the date of arrest was complied with. 93. This Court is conscious with the fact that the

moment a person is being arrested that infringes the

fundamental right of personal liberty as provided under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and as such without

any valid reason the personal liberty of the person cannot

be infringed. 94. This Court, in view of the discussions made

hereinabove and taking into consideration the aforesaid fact

is of the view that the mandatory provision as contained

under Section 19(1) of the PML Act, 2002, and the ratio laid

down in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors.

Vs. Union of India & Ors. (supra), and other judgments of

the Hon'ble Apex Court which has been referred herein in

preceding paragraphs, has been followed by the O.P-ED. 95. From the perusal of annexure-3 it is evident that

the Arrest Memo dated 08.05.2025, duly signed by the

petitioner, clearly records the time, place, and manner of

arrest. The written Grounds of Arrest were served upon the

petitioner at the time of arrest, in strict compliance with Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002, and the law laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Pankaj Bansal v. Union

of India (supra) and further "the reason to believe" has also

been acknowledged. The petitioner's signatures on the 66 2025:JHHC:33869

Arrest Memo, Grounds of Arrest, and "reason to believe" 96. It is evident from the record that the Directorate

General of GST Intelligence (in short DGGI), Jamshedpur

filed three complaint cases i.e. Complaint Case No.

678/2024 dt. 29.04.2024 against Shiva Kumar Deora

(present petitioner), Complaint Case No. 1280/2024 dt.

04.06.2024 against Sumit Gupta and Complaint Case No.

1281/2024 dt. 04.06.2024 against Amit Gupta u/s 132 of

the GST Act r/w section 20 of the Integrated GST Act, 2017

r/w section 34 , 120A , 193 , 195A , 201 , 203 , 204 , 406 , 409 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC in the court of Economic

Offices, Jamshedpur. Since u/s 420 , 467 and 471 of the

IPC, above stated complaints filed by the DGGI,

Jamshedpur are scheduled offences as per paragraph 1 Part

A of the schedule provided under PMLA 2002, the ECIR No.

RNZO/18/2024 was recorded on 23.09.2024 for conducting

an investigation under PMLA, 2002. 97. As per aforesaid three complaints cases it is

revealed that a syndicate is operational in Jharkhand, West 67 2025:JHHC:33869

Bengal, Delhi and other states of the country. Syndicate is

indulged in creation, operation and management of fake

companies / firms for passing on ineligible ITC (Input Tax

Credit) by issuing fake GST bills, without actually delivering

the related goods and services and the persons namely

Shiva Kumar Deora, Sumit Kumar Gupta and Amit Kumar

Gupta are a part of the said syndicate who are knowingly a

party with each other and or directly involved in illegal

activities of creation of fake companies / firms in the name

of various dummy directors/ proprietors in order to avail

and pass on ITC to several end beneficiaries in lieu of

money, which are proceeds of crime. Further, it has been

stated in the complaints that several bogus GST invoices

have been generated in Delhi and have traveled to

Jharkhand via West Bengal in three to four layers. A

portion of these bogus ITCs have also been transferred to

other State such as Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra

Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha and bogus ITC claims

have also been taken on the basis of the said fake invoices.

As per aforesaid complaint cases Shiva Kumar Deora

(present petitioner) is the mastermind behind the said fraud

committed of availing ITC on the strength of bogus invoices,

by way of creation of multiple companies/firms in the name

of innocent persons. They hired innocent and needy persons

in the name of job at the remuneration of Rs. 10,000/- to 68 2025:JHHC:33869

15,000/- per month and they were not required to attend

the office daily. Instead, they were asked to provide OTP and

PIN, whenever required by them. Subsequently, fake firms

and companies were floated in the name of those innocent

needy persons after using their identity, documents,

without their knowledge or consent. Further it is also

revealed that Sumit Kumar Gupta, the accomplice of Shiva

Kumar Deora worked as an office staff member on his

instructions for creating DSCs, rent agreements for various

firms and companies for which, he was initially paid a

monthly salary of Rs. 30,000/-. Shiva Kumar Deora and his

accomplices namely Amit Kumar Gupta and Sumit Kumar

Gupta are beneficial owners of total 135 shell

companies/firms which are floated in names of various

dummy directors and by these firms they availing fake ITC

to the tune of Rs. 750 crores (Approx) and passed them to

several end beneficiaries thereby causing significant loss to

the government exchequer. 98. It has been alleged that the petitioner Amit Gupta a

close associate and financial handler of main accomplice

Shiv Kumar Deora (present petitioner) in the ongoing money

laundering operations while Shiv Kumar Deora orchestrated

creation of shell firms, Amit Gupta manages the financial

layer of the syndicate including transaction, laundering of 69 2025:JHHC:33869

proceeds of crime and routing illicit funds through

numerous bank accounts and entities under his control. 99. It has further been alleged that the petitioner is

also Director of fake shell companies and along with them

deliberately generating and availing fake Input Tax Credit

(ITC) by issuing bogus invoices and all of them are a party

with each other in acquisition, possession, use and

concealment of proceeds of crime as well as claiming the

said proceeds of crime as untainted property and they have

deliberately generated proceeds of crime to acquire and use

it for personal gains. He has been arrested for the offence

u/s 3 PML Act punishable u/s 4 of the PML Act on

08.05.2025, hence this petition. 100. Now adverting to the contention of the learned

counsel for the parties on the point of culpability of the

petitioner. 101. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner has

submitted that the allegation leveled against the present

petitioner cannot be said to attract the ingredient of Section

3 of PML Act, 2002. 102. While on the other hand, the learned counsel

appearing for the ED has submitted by referring to various

paragraphs of prosecution complaint that the offence is very

much available attracting the offence under provisions of PML Act, 2002 . 70 2025:JHHC:33869 103. This Court, in order to appreciate the rival

submission, is of the view that various paragraphs of

prosecution complaint upon which the reliance has been

placed on behalf of both the parties, needs to be referred

herein so as to come to the conclusion as to whether the

parameter as fixed under Section 45 of the Act 2002, is

being fulfilled in order to reach to the conclusion that it is a

fit case where regular bail is to be granted or not. 104. For ready reference the relevant paragraphs of the

prosecution complaint are being quoted as under: 1). He also admitted that he personally managed and controlled
several bank accounts, for which he was the authorized
signatory, Including HDFC Bank A/c No. 50100354469224, Yes
Bank A/c No. 1753100002997, SBI A/c. No. 33571647894,
Kotak Bank A/c No. 1349711657, and the account of his
proprietorship M/s OmHari Textile with HDFC Bank (A/c No.
50200078468347). Не further admitted to knowingly using these
proceeds of crime for acquiring immovable properties, such as a
flat in "The Merlin The Fourth project in Kolkata, and for
infusing capital into his personal business, M/s Om Hari Textile.
He also admitted to receiving approximately 49 lakhs from the 72 2025:JHHC:33869

sale proceeds of his father's tainted properties, even after having
knowledge of the origuing investigation against his father since
February 2024. His evasive replies, his failure to explain the
legitimate source of these massive funds, and his obstructive
conduct during the investigation prove his active and knowing
role in the concealment, possession, acquisition, and use of
proceeds of crime. 9.3 Statement of Shri Amit Kumar Gupta
(Accused-3) (RUD-9 and RUD-21): Ltd. He confessed that 30-40% of his business
involved generating bogus invoices without any actual
supply of goolis. He specifically admitted to providing
fake invoices worth crores to other beneficiaries,
including Amit Agarwal@ Vicky Bhalotia (Accused-4)
(23-5 crores) and Vivek Narsaria (15-7 crores). He
detailed his use of various Angadias' for cash
transfers and admitted to investing the commission
earned from the fake invoicing scam into acquiring
multiple immovable properties valued at over ₹14.35
crores. He failed to provide any legitimate explanation
for credits of over 14.99 crores in his bank accounts,
thereby confirming his role in laundering the proceeds
of crime. He also implicated Shiva Kumar Deora in
witness tampering stating that Shiva kumar deora
directed dummy directors to file false affidavits and
complaints against GST officials. B. Statements of Dummy Directors/ Employees &
Other Persons: Possession: He held these illicit funds in a web of bank
 accounts, including those of the shell entities he controlled,
 his personal accounts, and the accounts of his family
 members, including his son Mohit Deora (Accused No.2)
 and wife Sashi Deora. His control over these accounts
 establishes his direct and indirect possession of the proceeds
 of crime. 2. Concealment and Layering: |

To conceal the illicit arigin of the funds, he employed
sophisticated layering techniques. The proceeds of crime were
routed through multiple shell companies in a series of complex
transactions designed to obscure the money trail.

Furthermore, he admitted to using a network of 'Angadias'
(hawala operators) to move cash and settle transactions, a
classic method for concealing financial trails from regulatory
scrutiny. The large, unexplained cash deposits into his and his
family's accounts are further evidence of his attempts to conceal
the tainted nature of the funds. 76 2025:JHHC:33869 3. Use and Integration: 4. Projecting as Untainted Property: SHRI AMIT KUMAR GUPTA (ACCUSED NO. 3): The proceeds of crime were layered through several accounts

to project them as legitimate. 106. It has been revealed that the present petitioner is

the principal conspirator and prime mastermind of the entire

GST fraud syndicate. He was not merely a participant but

the chief architect who, in connivance with his associates,

orchestrated a sophisticated and large-scale criminal

operation to defraud the Government Exchequer. His actions

and admissions demonstrate a clear and deliberate

involvement in every stage of the money laundering process,

fulfilling all the constituent elements of the offence as

defined under Section of the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 . 107. Further it has come in the investigation that as the

mastermind, the petitioner orchestrated the creation of a

complex web of 135 shell entities. He admitted to

incorporating over 25 such companies himself, which were

used to generate bogus invoices without any actual supply of

goods. This criminal activity related to the scheduled offence

directly resulted in the generation of fraudulent ITC, leading 83 2025:JHHC:33869

to the acquisition of proceeds of crime amounting to at least

201 Crores, which includes the syndicate's commission of

approximately 67 Crores. 108. Further it has come during investigation that the

present petitioner held these illicit funds in a web of bank

accounts, including those of the shell entities he controlled,

his personal accounts, and the accounts of his family

members, including his son Mohit Deora (Accused No.2) and

wife Sashi Deora. His control over these accounts

establishes his direct and indirect possession of the

proceeds of crime and to conceal the illicit origin of the

funds, he employed sophisticated layering techniques. The

proceeds of crime were routed through multiple shell

companies in a series of complex transactions designed to

obscure the money trail. Furthermore, he admitted to using

a network of 'Angadias' (hawala operators) to move cash and

settle transactions, a classic method for concealing financial

trails from regulatory scrutiny. The large, unexplained cash

deposits into his and his family's accounts are further

evidence of his attempts to conceal the tainted nature of the

funds. 109. Further the petitioner made deliberate attempts to

project the proceeds of crime as legitimate earnings. During

his statements, he gave contradictory and unsubstantiated

explanations for his income, claiming it was from "GST 84 2025:JHHC:33869

liasoning commission" or "textile commission" without

providing any documentary proof. He falsely claimed that

the substantial cash deposits in his accounts were mere re-

deposits of his own withdrawals, an assertion that fails to

explain the origin of the initial cash. By doing so, he was

actively trying to claim and project tainted property as

untainted. 110. Thus, the investigation has prima facie indicates

that Shri Shiva Kumar Deora was knowingly and actively

involved in all processes and activities connected with the

proceeds of crime, from its generation to its laundering. His

acts of witness intimidation and attempts to destroy

evidence further cement his culpability. Furthermore, as per

the Explanation to Section 3 of the PMLA, the offence of

money laundering is a continuing activity, and Shri Shiva

Kumar Deora continued to possess, use, and enjoy the

proceeds of crime through the assets he acquired and the

funds he controlled. 111. At this juncture it requires to refer herein that the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Rohit Tandon v.

Directorate of Enforcement (supra) while referring the ratio

of Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of

Maharashtra & Ors. , (2005) 5 SCC 294 has categorically

held that the Court ought to maintain a delicate balance

between a judgment of acquittal and conviction and an order 85 2025:JHHC:33869

granting bail much before commencement of trial. The duty

of the Court at this stage is not to weigh the evidence

meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the basis of broad

probabilities. 112. Further the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Vijay

Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. Vs. Union of India and

Ors (supra) has reiterated the same view and has observed

that the Court while dealing with the application for grant of

bail need not to delve deep into the merits of the case and

only a view of the court based on available material on

record is required. For ready reference the relevant

paragraph is being quoted as under: 113. Thus, prima-facie on the basis of the material

available in prosecution complaint the role and involvement

of the present petitioner in the alleged money laundering

cannot be negated. 114. It needs to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex Court

in the case of Rana Ayyub v. Directorate of Enforcement )

(2023) 4 SCC 357 observed as follows: including its concealment or possession or acquisition or use. In
 addition, a person involved in such process or activity
 connected to proceeds of crime, should be projecting or claiming
 it as untainted property. The Explanation under Section 3 makes it clear that even if the involvement is in one or more of
 the following activities or processes, namely: (i) concealment; (ii)
 possession; (im) acquisition; (iv) use; (o) projecting it as
 untainted property, or (vi) claiming it as untainted property, the
 offence of money-laundering will be made out. 20. Thus, Section 3 comprises of two essential limbs, namely: (i)
 involvement in any process or activity, and (ii) connection of
 such process or activity to the proceeds of crime. The expression
 "proceeds of crime" is defined in Section 2(1)(u) to mean any
 property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any
 person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled
 offence or the value of such property or where such property is
 taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent
 in value held within the country or abroad." 87 2025:JHHC:33869 115. In the light of the aforesaid statutory definitions, it

can safely be inferred that it is enough if the prosecution

establishes that there was generation of proceeds of crime

and the accused was involved in any process or activity in

connection with the proceeds of crime. 116. Hence, it from the various paragraphs of the

prosecution complaint it is evident that the petitioner is

directly indulged and is actually involved in all the activities

connected with the offence of money laundering, i.e., use or

acquisition, possession, concealment, and projecting or

claiming as untainted property, as defined u/s 3 of PML Act,

2002. 117. It is pertinent to mention here that the provisions of

the PML Act, 2002 is an independent offence and the

investigation conducted by the Enforcement Directorate

under the PML Act, 2002 is triggered after committing, the

commission of a scheduled offence, out of which proceeds

have been generated. During the investigation, there is the

active involvement of the petitioner in the layering, transfer

and use as well as the petitioner entering into transactions

to launder the proceeds of crime generated out of such

scheduled offence. 118. Further the offence of money laundering as

contemplated in Section 3 of the PML Act, 2002 has been

elaborately dealt with by the three Judge Bench in Vijay 88 2025: JHHC:33869

Madanlal Choudhary (supra), in which it has been

observed that Section 3 has a wider reach. The offence as

defined captures every process and activity in dealing with

the proceeds of crime, directly or indirectly, and is not

limited to the happening of the final act of integration of

tainted property in the formal economy to constitute an act

of money laundering. Of course, the authority of the

Authorised Officer under the Act to prosecute any person for

the offence of money laundering gets triggered only if there

exist proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section 2(1)(u) of the Act and further it is involved in any process or

activity. Not even in case of existence of undisclosed income

and irrespective of its volume, the definition of "Proceeds of

Crime" under Section 2(1)(u) will get attracted, unless the

property has been derived or obtained as a result of criminal

activity relating to a scheduled offence. The property must

qualify the definition of "Proceeds of Crime" under Section

2(1)(u) of the Act. As observed, in all or whole of the crime

property linked to scheduled offence need not be regarded as

proceeds of crime, but all properties qualifying the definition

of "Proceeds of Crime" under Section 2(1)(u) will necessarily

be the crime properties. 119. To constitute any property as proceeds of crime, it

must be derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any

person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled 89 2025:JHHC:33869

offence. The explanation clarifies that the proceeds of crime

include property, not only derived or obtained from

scheduled offence but also any property which may directly

or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any

criminal activity relatable to the scheduled offence. Clause

(u) also clarifies that even the value of any such property will

also be the proceeds of crime. 120. Thus, prima-facie, it appears that the petitioner has

involved himself in accumulating proceeds of crime and the

plea of the learned counsel for the petitioner that the

petitioner has no role in the alleged commission of crime,

does not hold water. 121. Further it has been contended by the learned

counsel for the petitioner that the DGGI, Jamshedpur ought

not to have registered prosecution complaint for the offences

punishable under the provisions of IPC which have merely

been appended to a GST complaint, which is impermissible

in law. 122. In the aforesaid context it requires to refer herein

that Section 132 of CGST Act is a penal provision providing

punishment for certain offences. Sub-Section (1) of Section

132 prescribes several acts and omissions which are made

punishable with different sentences depending on the nature

of the offence. Sub-Section (4) of Section 132 provides that

notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal 90 2025:JHHC:33869

Procedure, all Commissioner. offences under the said Act,

except those referred to in sub-Section (5) shall be non-

cognizable and bailable. However, sub-Section (5) of Section

132 makes certain offences cognizable and non-bailable.

Sub-Section (6) of Section 132 provides that a person shall

not be prosecuted for any offence under the said Section

except with the previous sanction of the commissioner. 123. As noted, Section 132 of CGST Act provides

punishment for certain offences related to the Goods and

Service Tax related acts and omissions. However, it is not

unknown that a certain act may fall within the said special

penal statute at the same time may also have an element of

an offence under IPC . 124. The question whether the accused in such a

situation can be made answerable only for the special statue

offence or general offence also, has been examined by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court earlier. 125. In case of Jayant and others vs. State of Madhya

Pradesh , reported in (2021) 2 SCC 670, facts were that on

a surprise inspection, the Mining Inspector found that the

accused was indulging in illegal mining and transportation

of minor minerals. He made a report suggesting that the

offences can be compounded. This was accepted by the

authorities and the accused also. Subsequently, it was

reported that there were large scale illegal excavation and 91 2025:JHHC:33869

transportation of minerals without payment of royalty. The

Magistrate passed and order taking note of such

information. He was of the view that offences under the IPC were distinct from those punishable under Mines and

Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act . He, therefore,

directed registration of a criminal case against the accused

and for investigation under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. The

accused challenged the FIR under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.

contending that in view of the bar under Section 22 of

MMRD Act, the order passed by the Magistrate was

unsustainable. 126. The issue ultimately reached to the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. One of the questions considered by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court was whether in case of illegal mining

and transportation of minor minerals action by police for

offence of theft under Section 378 of IPC was permissible in

view of the provisions contained in MMRD Act . In this

respect, it was held that - 127. In case of State (NCT of Delhi) vs. Sanjay ,

reported in (2014) 9 SCC 772, also similar question came

up for consideration. It was held by the Hon'ble Apex Court

which reads as under: Hence, merely because initiation of proceeding for commission of
 an offence under the MMDR Act on the basis of complaint cannot
 and shall not debar the police from taking action against persons
 for committing theft of sand and minerals in the manner
 mentioned above by exercising power under the Code of Criminal
 Procedure and submit a report before the Magistrate for taking
 cognizance against such persons. In other words, in a case where
 there is a theft of sand and gravel from the government land, the
 police can register a case, investigate the same and submit a final
 report under Section 173 CrPC before a Magistrate having 93 2025:JHHC:33869

 jurisdiction for the purpose of taking cognizance as provided in Section 190(1)(d) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 73. After giving our thoughtful consideration in the matter, in the
 light of the relevant provisions of the Act vis-à-vis the Code of
 Criminal Procedure and the Penal Code, we are of the definite
 opinion that the ingredients constituting the offence under the MMDR Act and the ingredients of dishonestly removing sand and
 gravel from the riverbeds without consent, which is the property of
 the State, is a distinct offence under IPC . Hence, for the
 commission of offence under Section 378 IPC, on receipt of the
 police report, the Magistrate having jurisdiction can take
 cognizance of the said offence without awaiting the receipt of
 complaint that may be filed by the authorised officer for taking
 cognizance in respect of violation of various provisions of the MMDR Act . Consequently, the contrary view taken by the different
 High Courts cannot be sustained in law and, therefore, overruled.
 Consequently, these criminal appeals are disposed of with a
 direction to the Magistrates concerned to proceed accordingly."
 (emphasis supplied) 128. Thus, if an act or offence which constitute an

offence under IPC , then the provision of Special Act shall not

stand in a way to stop the applicability of the IPC and such

offence can be prosecuted under IPC . 129. Further as per the aim and objective of the Act 2002

which has already referred herein the preceding paragraph

wherefrom it is evident that the Act 2002 aims to prevent

illegal financial activities by monitoring businesses to ensure

they're not laundering money, which involves making

illegally obtained funds appear legal to evade legal

consequences. This money might be earned from illegal 94 2025:JHHC:33869

activities like smuggling, fraud, creation of shell companies,

and fake invoicing, amongst other sources. 130. Further it needs to refer herein that this Court is

conscious with the fact that at this juncture this Court has

to consider the application of Section 45 of the Act 2002 in

order to see that whether the petitioner is eligible for bail or

not, therefore the said contention of the petitioner is not fit

to be appreciated herein at this stage. 131. Further herein it is evident from the various

paragraphs of the prosecution complaint filed which have

been referred hereinabove, is supported by substantial

evidence gathered during the investigation and culpability

against the petitioner is not based solely upon on the

statements of his accomplices. Furthermore, prima facie

there is ample evidence establishing the petitioner's

involvement in the offence of money laundering, which is

further corroborated by statements of others. 132. It needs to refer herein that the three Judge Bench

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of " Rohit Tandon vs.

Directorate of Enforcement " (supra) held that the

statements of witnesses recorded by Prosecution - ED are

admissible in evidence in view of Section 50 . Such

statements may make out a formidable case about the

involvement of the accused in the commission of the offence 95 2025:JHHC:33869

of money laundering. For ready reference the relevant

paragraph is being quoted as under: or that charge-sheet has been filed in FIR No. 205/2016 against
 the appellant without his arrest; that the appellant has been
 lodged in judicial custody since 2-1-2017 and has not been 96 2025:JHHC:33869

 interrogated or examined by the Enforcement Directorate
 thereafter; all these will be of no consequence. 133. In a recent judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in " Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of

Enforcement ", (2024) 9 SCC 22 has again made similar

observations: 134. In light of the foregoing judicial pronouncements, it

is evident that statements recorded under Section 50 of the

PML Act, 2002 hold evidentiary value and are admissible in

legal proceedings. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, while 97 2025:JHHC:33869

emphasizing the legal sanctity of such statements, observed

that they constitute valid material upon which reliance can

be placed to sustain allegations under the PML Act, 2002 . 135. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court also reaffirmed the admissibility of Section 50 of the

PML Act, 2002 distinguishing them from statements

recorded under the Cr.PC . The Court underscored that such

statements, being recorded during an inquiry rather than an

investigation, are not subject to the restrictions under Article

20(3) and Article 21 of the Constitution. Instead, they are

deemed to be judicial proceedings under Section 50(4) of the

PML Act, 2002 and, therefore, admissible as evidence in

proceedings under the PML Act, 2002 . The Hon'ble Apex

Court further clarified that the provisions of Section 50 of

the PML Act, 2002 having an overriding effect by virtue

of Sections 65 and 71 of the PML Act, 2002 prevail over the

procedural safeguards under the CrPC . 136. In the instant case, it has been found that during

the course of investigation statement so recorded of the

accused persons as also of the statement of various others

persons. 137. Thus, the petitioner knowingly is as the party and is

actually involved in all the activities connected with the

offence of money laundering, i.e., use or acquisition, 98 2025:JHHC:33869

possession, concealment, and projecting or claiming as

untainted property. 138. This Court is now proceeding to analyze the

statutory framework governing the burden of proof under

Section 24 in proceedings related to proceeds of crime. laundering." 139. From the bare perusal of Section 24 of the PML Act,

2002, it is evident that once a person is charged with the

offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the PML Act,

2002, the law presumes that the proceeds of crime are

involved in money laundering unless the contrary is proven

by the accused. 140. In the present case, the investigating agency has

relied on the evidences which indicate the applicant's active

role in the alleged money laundering activities. 141. By virtue of Section 24 of the PML Act, 2002, the

O.P- ED is not required to conclusively establish the

applicant's guilt at the pre-trial stage, rather,

the applicant/petitioner must demonstrate that the proceeds 99 2025:JHHC:33869

of crime attributed to him are not linked to money

laundering. 142. With regard to the above, this Court has referred to

the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Prem

Prakash v. Union of India through Directorate of

Enforcement , (supra) wherein, the following observations

were made: 143. Be it noted that the legal presumption under Section 24(a) of the Act 2002, would apply when the person

is charged with the offence of money-laundering and his

direct or indirect involvement in any process or activity

connected with the proceeds of crime, is established. The

existence of proceeds of crime is, therefore, a foundational

fact, to be established by the prosecution, including the

involvement of the person in any process or activity

connected therewith. Once these foundational facts are

established by the prosecution, the onus must then shift on

the person facing charge of offence of money- laundering to

rebut the legal presumption that the proceeds of crime are

not involved in money-laundering, by producing evidence

which is within his personal knowledge of the accused. 144. In other words, the expression "presume" is not

conclusive. It also does not follow that the legal presumption

that the proceeds of crime are involved in money-laundering

is to be invoked by the authority or the court, without

providing an opportunity to the person to rebut the same by

leading evidence within his personal knowledge. 145. Such onus also flows from the purport of Section

106 of the Evidence Act. Whereby, he must rebut the legal

presumption in the manner he chooses to do and as is 101 2025:JHHC:33869

permissible in law, including by replying under Section 313

of the 1973 Code or even by cross-examining prosecution

witnesses. The person would get enough opportunity in the

proceeding before the authority or the court, as the case may

be. He may be able to discharge his burden by showing that

he is not involved in any process or activity connected with

the proceeds of crime. 146. In the case of " Collector of Customs, Madras &

Ors. v. D. Bhoormall ", (1974) 2 SCC 544 proceedings

were initiated under Section 167(8)(c) of the Customs Act for

confiscation of contraband or smuggled goods and it was

observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that on the principle

underlying Section 106 , Evidence Act, the burden to

establish those facts is cast on the person concerned; and, if

he fails to establish or explain those facts, an adverse

inference of facts may arise against him. The relevant

paragraph of the aforesaid Judgment is being quoted as

under: 147. Thus, in light of the aforesaid principles and the law

enunciated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay

Madanlal Choudhary (Supra), this Court must determine

whether the foundational facts necessary to invoke the

presumption under Section 24 of the PML Act, 2002 have

been established by the O.P-ED. 148. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has categorically held

that the prosecution must satisfy three essential ingredients.

First, the commission of a scheduled offence must be

established. Second, the property in question must be

shown to have been derived or obtained, directly or

indirectly, as a result of such criminal activity and third, the

accused must be linked, directly or indirectly, to any process

or activity connected with the proceeds of crime. 149. Herein on the basis of the discussion made

hereinabove in the preceding paragraphs it is evident that

the present petitioner along with the other accused persons,

had parked the illicit funds in a web of bank accounts,

including those of the shell entities he controlled, his

personal accounts, and the accounts of his family members,

including his petitioners control over these accounts

establishes his direct and indirect possession of the

proceeds of crime as such there is sufficient evidence in 103 2025:JHHC:33869

order top presume the role of the petitioner in alleged offence

of Money laundering. 150. Now in the light of the aforesaid discussion, at this

juncture, this Court thinks it fit to revisit the scope of Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002. As discussed in preceding

paragraphs that Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002 provides

twin test. First 'reason to believe' is to be there for the

purpose of reaching to the conclusion that there is no prima

facie case and second condition is that the accused is not

likely to commit any offence while on bail. 151. Sub-section (1)(ii) of Section 45 of the PML Act,

2002, provides that if the Public Prosecutor opposes the

application, the Court is satisfied that there are reasonable

grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence

and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,

meaning thereby, the parameter which is to be followed by

the concerned court that satisfaction is required to be there

for believing that such accused person is not guilty of such

offence and is not likely to commit offence while on bail. 152. Section 45(2) of the Act 2002 provides to consider

the limitation for grant of bail which is in addition to the

limitation under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, i.e.,

limitation which is to be considered while granting the

benefit either in exercise of jurisdiction conferred to this

Court under BNSS, 2023 is to be taken into consideration. 104 2025:JHHC:33869 153. It is, thus, evident by taking into consideration the

provision of Sections 19(1) , 45(1) and 45(2) of PML Act, 2002

that the conditions provided therein are required to be

considered while granting the benefit of regular bail in

exercise of power conferred under statute apart from the

twin conditions which has been provided under Section

45(1) of the Act, 2002. 154. Thus, Section 45 of the PML Act, 2002 turns the

principle of bail is the rule and jail is the exception on its

head. The power of the Court to grant bail is further

conditioned upon the satisfaction of the twin conditions

prescribed under Section 45(1) (i) and (ii) PML Act, 2002 .

While undertaking this exercise, the Court is required to

take a prima facie view on the basis of materials collected

during investigation. The expression used in Section 45 of

PML Act, 2002 are "reasonable grounds for believing" which

means that the Court has to find, from a prima facie view of

the materials collected during investigation that there are

reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has not

committed the offence and that there is no likelihood of him

committing an offence while on bail. Recently, in Tarun

Kumar v Assistant Directorate of Enforcement , (supra)

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: 155. Further, at the stage of recording statements during

enquiry, it cannot be construed as an investigation for

prosecution. The process envisaged under Section 50 of

PML Act, 2002 is in the nature of an inquiry against the

proceeds of crime and it is not an investigation and the

authorities who are recording the statements are not police

officers and therefore, these statements can be relied upon

as admissible piece of evidence before the Court. The

summons proceedings and recording of statements under PML Act, 2002 are given the status of judicial proceedings

under Section 50(4) of PML Act, 2002. 156. From the various paragraphs of the prosecution

complaint including the statements of the other persons

which were recorded and surfaced during the investigation 106 2025:JHHC:33869

clearly implicate the petitioner and establishes the offence

of money laundering against the present petitioner. 157. Thus, on the basis of the discussion made

hereinabove, the contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner that even if the entire ECIR will be taken into

consideration, no offence will be said to be committed so as

to attract the ingredients of Sections 3 & 4 of the PML Act,

2002, is totally misplaced in the light of accusation as

mentioned in prosecution complaint. 158. Thus, this Court, after taking note of the settled

legal proposition, is of view that the aforesaid contention is

not tenable in the eye of law. 159. This Court is conscious with the fact that personal

liberty is utmost requirement to maintain the individuality

of the person concerned but at the same time it is equally

settled that the balance between personal liberty and

societal impact of the alleged offence should be taken care

of by the Court concerned. 160. Further it has been submitted by the learned

counsel for the ED that substantial portions of the

proceeds of crime remain untraced, unrecovered, and

potentially in circulation within the financial system. The

investigation into the identification of the complete chain

of transactions, the full extent of assets acquired from

such tainted funds, and the persons/entities involved in 107 2025:JHHC:33869

their possession and concealment is still ongoing. 161. It is revealed during the investigation that the

petitioner intentionally transferred/tried to transfer the

said properties, acquired out of the proceeds of crime, to

his associates purposefully to frustrate the proceedings

under the law therefore, releasing the petitioner at this

crucial stage would not only impede and prejudice the

ongoing investigation but would also frustrate the

statutory objective of tracing, attaching, and ultimately

confiscating the property derived from or involved in

money laundering. 162. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid discussion and

taking into consideration the grave nature of the

allegations, the sophisticated modus operandi employed to

project tainted property as untainted, and the strict

statutory framework governing bail under the PML Act,

2002 , it is considered view of this Court that no ground

exists for the petitioner to claim the benefit of bail on

merits. The gravity of the offence, and the serious

allegations of facilitating the laundering of proceeds of

crime continue to justify the petitioner's custody under the

strict rigors of Section 45 of the Act 2002. 163. This Court while considering the prayer for regular

bail has taken into consideration that though this Court is

not sitting in appeal on the order passed by learned Trial 108 2025:JHHC:33869

Court but only for the purpose of considering the view

which has been taken by learned Court while rejecting the

prayer for bail, this Court is also in agreement with the said

view based upon the material surfaced in course of

investigation, as referred hereinabove. 164. This Court is conscious of this fact that while

deciding the issue of granting bail in grave economic

offences it is the utmost duty of the Court that the nature

and gravity of the alleged offence should have been kept in

mind because corruption poses a serious threat to our

society should be dealt with by iron hand. 165. Further, it is required to refer herein that the Money

Laundering is an economic offence and economic offences

comes under the of grave offences hence needs to be visited

with a different approach in the matter of bail as held by the

Hon'ble Apex court in the case of " Y. S Jagan Mohan

Reddy v/s Central Bureau of Investigation ", reported in

(2013) 7 SCC 439. For ready reference, the relevant

paragraphs of the aforesaid judgments are being quoted as

under: 2025:JHHC:33869 166. Similarly, the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of

" Nimmagadda Prasad Vs. Central Bureau of

Investigation ", reported in (2013) 7 SCC 466 has

reiterated the same view in paragraphs-23 to 25 which

reads as under: 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the
 nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support
 thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction will
 entail, the character of the accused, circumstances which are
 peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
 presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension
 of the witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests of 110 2025:JHHC:33869

 the public/State and other similar considerations. It has also
 to be kept in mind that for the purpose of granting bail, the
 legislature has used the words "reasonable grounds for
 believing" instead of "the evidence" which means the court
 dealing with the grant of bail can only satisfy itself as to
 whether there is a genuine case against the accused and that
 the prosecution will be able to produce prima facie evidence
 in support of the charge. It is not expected, at this stage, to
 have the evidence establishing the guilt of the accused
 beyond reasonable doubt. 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to
 be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The
 economic offence having deep-rooted conspiracies and
 involving huge loss of public funds needs to be viewed
 seriously and considered as a grave offence affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing
 serious threat to the financial health of the country." 167. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of " Central

Bureau of Investigation Vs Santosh Karnani and

Another ", 2023 SCC OnLine SC 427 has observed that

corruption poses a serious threat to our society and must

be dealt with iron hands. The relevant paragraph of the

aforesaid judgment is being referred as under:- Hence, the need to be extra conscious." 111 2025:JHHC:33869 168. It requires to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex

Court in catena of judgments has held that the economic

offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with

a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic

offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge

loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and

considered as grave offences affecting the economy of the

country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the

financial health of the country. 169. The Hon'ble Apex Court has further observed that

with the advancement of technology and Artificial

Intelligence, the economic offences like money laundering

have become a real threat to the functioning of the financial

system of the country and have become a great challenge

for the investigating agencies to detect and comprehend the

intricate nature of transactions, as also the role of the

persons involved therein. Reference in this regard be made

to the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

case of " Tarun Kumar vs. Assistant Director Directorate

of Enforcement " (supra). The relevant paragraphs of the

aforesaid Judgment are being quoted as under: 23. With the advancement of technology and Artificial
Intelligence, the economic offences like money
laundering have become a real threat to the functioning
of the financial system of the country and have become
a great challenge for the investigating agencies to
detect and comprehend the intricate nature of
transactions, as also the role of the persons involved
therein. Lot of minute exercise is expected to be undertaken
by the Investigating Agency to see that no innocent person is
wrongly booked and that no culprit escapes from the clutches
of the law. When the detention of the accused is continued by 113 2025:JHHC:33869

 the Court, the courts are also expected to conclude the trials
 within a reasonable time, further ensuring the right of speedy
 trial guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. 24. With the afore-stated observations, the appeal is dismissed." 170. This Court, considering the aforesaid material

available against the petitioner in such a grave nature of

offence and applying the principle of grant of bail wherein

the principle of having prima facie case is to be followed, is

of the view that it is not a fit case of grant of bail. 171. Having regard to the entirety of the facts and

circumstances of the case, this Court is of the opinion that

the petitioner has miserably failed to satisfy this Court that

there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not

guilty of the alleged offences. On the contrary, there is

sufficient material collected by the O.P-ED to show that he

is prima facie guilty of the alleged offences. 172. For the foregoing reasons, having regard to facts

and circumstances, as have been analyzed hereinabove,

since the petitioner has failed to make out a special case to

exercise the power to grant bail and considering the facts

and parameters, necessary to be considered for adjudication

of bail, this Court does not find any exceptional ground to

exercise its discretionary jurisdiction to grant bail. 173. Further it needs to refer herein that after detailed

investigation, the Directorate of Enforcement has filed a 114 2025:JHHC:33869

Prosecution Complaint dated 05.07.2025 before the Special

Judge, PMLA, Ranchi, against the present petitioner. 174. It is evident from the various paragraphs of the

prosecution report dated 05.07.2025 which have been

quoted and refer hereinabove that the allegations levelled

against the petitioner are of an extremely grave and serious

nature, striking at the very foundation of the country's

economic and financial system. They pertain to fraudulent

transactions running into hundreds of crores of rupees,

executed through a complex and deliberate layering of illicit

funds, and culminating in the acquisition and projection of

properties derived from such tainted sources as untainted

assets. The petitioner's activities have been found to be

indispensable to the layering and integration stages of the

laundering process, involving multiple shell companies and

bank accounts under his de facto control. 175. Thus, the magnitude of the fraud, its organized

nature, and the systematic siphoning of funds, the present

case strikes at the core of the country's economic and

financial fabric. The fraudulent availment and passing of

fake ITC not only caused direct financial loss to the

Government but also undermined the sanctity of the GST

regime, which is based on self-declaration and trust. 176. It needs to refer herein that the bail application filed

by the co-accused, namely, Amit Gupta has already been 115 2025:JHHC:33869

rejected by this Court vide order dated 08.10.2025 passed

in B.A No.7476 of 2025. 177. Further the prayer for bail of the co-accused,

namely, Amit Agarwal @ Vicky Bhalotia against whom there

is almost similar allegation, had also been rejected by this

Court vide order dated 08.10.2025 passed in B.A No.6030

of 2025 and against the said order, he has approached the

Hon'ble Apex Court but there also his prayer for bail was

rejected vide order dated 17.10.2025 passed in Special leave

to Appeal (Crl.) Nos.16591 of 2025, as the Hon'ble Apex

Court has not inclined to interfere with the order passed by

this Court. 178. On the basis of discussion made hereinabove it is

considered view of this Court that granting bail to the

petitioner would send a wrong signal to society and

embolden economic offenders, thereby undermining public

confidence in the justice delivery system. The offence in

question is not a mere fiscal offence but a crime against the

economic health of the nation, with a cascading effect on

honest taxpayers, market integrity, and state revenue,

therefore, this Court is of the view that it is not a case

where the prayer for bail is to be granted, as such the

instant application stands dismissed. 179. It is made clear that any observations made herein

are prima-facie for consideration of matter of bail only and 116 2025:JHHC:33869

 the view expressed herein shall not be construed as an

 expression on the merits of the case. 180. The learned Trial Court shall proceed with the

 matter uninfluenced by any observations made by this

 Court and shall decide the case strictly in accordance with

 law. (Sujit Narayan Prasad, J.)

Dated:_12/11/2025
Jharkhand High Court, Ranchi
Birendra /A.F.R.

Uploaded on 14.11.2025. 117