Heard Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, learned counsel for

 the petitioner and Mr. Alok Ranjan, learned counsel representing

 the State. Pursuant to the order dated 13.04.2022 passed by this

 court a show cause has been filed on behalf of the opposite party

 no. 2 as well as opposite party no. 5. Both the show causes are
 Patna High Court MJC No.1266 of 2019(8) dt.22-06-2022 2/6 verbatively on the same line. In his show cause the opposite

 party no. 2 has after giving the details with regard to the

 procurement procedures stated in paragraph 8(vii) as under: In the show cause filed on behalf of opposite party no.

 5, it is stated inter-alia that "so far as the query which is related

 to the issue of conducting audit of account is concerned,

 PACS/Vyapar Mandal which are earmarked as agency for

 procurement purposes, it is humbly submitted that only those

 PACS/Vyapar Mandals are selected for such purposes whose

 audit is up to date." It is further stated that "the PACS/Vyapar Mandal is

 obliged to maintain the records of purchase cum payment

 payment register of paddy, stock register and the said records

 verified and certified by the concerned Block Cooperative

 Extension Officer by offline as well as online mode." As regards the grievance redressal mechanism the

 show cause states that "there is a provision of Grievance
 Patna High Court MJC No.1266 of 2019(8) dt.22-06-2022 3/6 Redressal mechanism in connection with any complaint related

 to procurement of paddy. At the District Level District Call

 Centres have been established and at the State Level Toll Free

 IVRS Call Centre (Sugam)-1800 1800 110 has been established

 so that the complaint or problems of the farmers is solved

 within time." Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, learned counsel for the

 petitioner submits that in the show cause filed on behalf of

 opposite party nos. 2 & 5 only the procedures which are on

 papers have been brought to the notice of this Court. Referring

 to the facts of the present case itself, learned counsel submits

 that in this case this Court has noticed that a Three Members

 Committee who examined the claim of the petitioner has found

 that during the relevant period of procurement of paddy the

 petitioner had obtained some enforcement orders but no record

 was maintained showing the name of farmers from whom the

 paddy had been purchased, their addresses etc. in the register

 and the claim as to verification of the name of the farmers done

 by the officers were also found false. The Block Cooperative

 Extension Officer informed that the claim of the petitioner was

 not genuine and in fact the farmers whose names were

 mentioned in the register were not found in the village. The
 Patna High Court MJC No.1266 of 2019(8) dt.22-06-2022 4/6 committee has noticed that the entries made regarding purchase

 of paddy from the farmers and payment of bonus to them seems

 to be forged. Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for the petitioner has

 argued vehemently before this court that in fact this is the

 situation with regard to paddy procurements by the PACS/

 Vyapar Mandals. Learned counsel submits that the

 PACS/Vyapar Mandals are making false entries in the registers

 showing purchase of paddy/rabi crops from certain persons who

 have actually no piece of land to cultivate. It is stated that these

 PACS/Vyapar Mandals are not purchasing the paddy/rabi crops

 from genuine farmers and if they purchase it, they purchase the

 crops only from few of the genuine farmers and not from all the

 farmers rather fake entries are made in the name of different

 persons who have no sufficient land to grow that much of crops

 and money is transferred in their account from where it goes in

 the hand of the persons who are managing the affairs of the

 PACS/Vyapar Mandals. Learned counsel submits that opposite party no. 5 has

 though stated in one of the paragraphs that there is a provision

 of portability system by which the registered farmers can sell

 their paddy to any selected PACS/Vyapar Mandal which has not
 Patna High Court MJC No.1266 of 2019(8) dt.22-06-2022 5/6 been blacklisted and have updated audit report but in fact these

 information are not available to the farmers and the list of

 blacklisted PACS/Vyapar Mandal has not been placed on the

 website of the Department. It is also not in public domain as to

 how many PACS/Vyapar Mandal have up to date audit reports.

 How the farmers can apply for portability is not duly explained. It is further submitted that the show cause is

 completely silent as to how many complaints have been

 received by the Department against the PACS/Vyapar Mandal at

 the District and State Level and what action have been taken

 thereon to redress the grievance of the farmers. The website of

 the Department does not provide any link for updated

 information in this regard. Mr. Alok Ranjan, learned counsel representing the

 State submits that he may be given an opportunity to discuss the

 matter with the competent authority i.e. opposite party no. 5 and

 seek instruction in this regard as also will find out as to what

 kind of remedial measures may be taken to deal with the

 complaints particularly with regard to the swindling and

 siphoning of money by the PSCS/Vyapar Mandals in the name

 of persons from whom the paddy/rabi crops are in fact not

 purchased but their names are entered in the list and payments
 Patna High Court MJC No.1266 of 2019(8) dt.22-06-2022 6/6 are made in their account only to facilitate siphoning of public

 money. List this matter after three weeks i.e. 20 th July, 2022

 under the same heading. In the meantime, opposite party nos. 2 & 5 shall look

 into the matter, come out with a response before this Court on

 each and every issue raised by Mr. Mishra, learned counsel and

 shall take all such measures which they can take to conduct a

 scrutiny to find out the fake entries in the register of

 PACS/Vyapar Mandals and stop the siphoning of public money

 through those accounts. They will also find out with regard to

 the complaints and the redressal of the grievance of the farmers

 at the District as well as State level and the responsibility of the

 officers dealing with the verification of records of the PACS &

 the Vyapar Mandals. Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, learned counsel shall

 henceforth appear as an amicus curiae in this case. As prayed,

 he is permitted to file affidavits with materials in support of his

 contentions. (Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, J.)
 Rajeev/- U
Note: The ordersheet duly signed has been attached with the record. However, in view of the present arrangements, during Pandemic period all
concerned shall act on the basis of the copy of the order uploaded on the High Court website under the heading 'Judicial Orders Passed During The
Pandemic Period'.