At the outset, it is recorded that learned counsel for V: odafone Mobile Services
Lid., Appellant in Cyber Appeal No.S of 2018 and Respondent No.2 in the other
Appeal, has informed that the name of the above corporate entity now stands changed
to Vodafone Idea Limited. He prays that this change may be recorded and the changed
name should appear in the judgement. This prayer has not been opposed by the
learned counsel for the other side and hence the change in the name of Vodafone
Mobile Service Limited to that of Vodafone Idea Limited is recorded and the cause

title of this judgement and order is accordingly modified so as to reflect the name of

fed
 

Vodafone Idea Ltd. As prayed, learned counsel is permitted to file amended memo of
parties,
> Bor sake of convenience, the facts shall be referred from the records of Cyber

Appeal No.3 of 2018, unless specifically stated otherwise. 3. Both the Appeals arise out of and are directed against the same order dated
19.5.2018 passed in Complaint No.14/2016 by Shri S V R Srinivas, Principal
Seoretary, Information and Technology, Government of Maharashtra in the capacity of
Adjudicating Officer (AO) exercising jurisdiction under section 46 of the Information
Technology Act,2000, Since parties and the issues are common, both the Appeals have

been heard together and shall be governed by this common judgement. 4. The proceedings before the learned AO commenced on filing of a complaint on
14.12.2015 by the complainant, Sandeep Singhal, a businessman residing at Nagpur.
The complaint contains all the relevant informations with respect to both the
respondents, Bank of India, Rana Pratap Nagar Branch, Nagpur and Vodafone Cellular
Ltd., Maharashira, The particulars of claims show that Rs. 18,75,381.41 has been
claimed towards actual losses sustained because of alleged negligence of the bank
andfor because of negligence of M/s. Vodafone in illegally issuing the duplicate SIM

Card to an imposter, Rs. 5 lakhs have been claimed towards actual costs on account of
 

travelling and ldgation expenses etc. Rs 10 lakh has been claimed towards damages

on account of mental agonies caused to the complainant. 3. Parties are on issues only on those facts which are in the nature of allegations of
negligence/lapses or illegality. The general facts are, however, not in controversy. The
complainant is proprietor of Umasan Enterprises and has two Cash Credit Accounts
with the concerned Branch of Bank of India, Nagpur. The accounts bearing nos.
872230100000612 and 872230100000712 are in operations since last 30 years in the
name of concerned Umasan Enterprises. The accounts have one common unique

Customer ID which are operated either by the complainant or in his absence by his wife

SmtAniu. 6. | The complainant was enjoying a limited Net Banking Services having only the
facility of Intra Banking without facility for RTGS/NEFT transactions to any other
bank, except Bank of India Branches. The complainant used to make various payments
through such facilities only to Government Departments. Other payments used to be
only through cheques. Both the bank accounts were linked with the complainant's
mobile bearing a particular number. SMS and OTPs relating to the accounts were
received on the said mobile number. The mobile had.a Post Paid Card of Vodafone as
the telecom service provider, The complainant was using the mobile nurmber for the

last 15 years and in March 2010, on the asking of Vodafone, he had filled the KYC
 

7}

forms and submitted on 26.3.2010. That form had many details of the complainant, his
landline numbers, photographs and signatures. Between 29,.8,.2015 and 28.8.2015, the
complainant and his wife and son were at Mumbai for a business tour, On 25.8.2015, at
'around 3.00 PM, the wife of complainant received a eall from the Bank to inquire
whether certain transactions of huge amount were being made by them through Net
Rankine. At that time mobile phone of the complainant was switched off though it was
in working condition, till the noon of 25.8.2015. The complainant's wife informed that
no such transactions were made by them. Since complainant's mobile had stopped
working, she gave information to the complainant through his son's mobile. The
complainant called the Bank to make enquiries and learnt that in total a huge amount of
Rs, 18.50 lakhs had been debited from his Cash Credit Account No. 8722301000007 12.
On learning about the fraudulent sransfers to unknown persons in different branches of
the Bank, the complainant asked the Bank to freeze both the accounts although til then,
no transfer had been made from the other account. This direction was because both the
accounts were having same customer TD, Request was also made to freeze the accounts
where the money had been transferred fraudulently. On 36,8.2015, at around 9.15 AM.
the complainant's wife received information from the Bank that an amount of Rs.
11.50 lakhs had been transferred from other account no. $72230100000612 also, to
different accounts. However, bo lags was caused from this account because the

transactions were immediately reversed and the account was frozen. On the instructions
 

of the complainant, his younger son lodged a police case at Nagpur on 25.8.2015 for the
fraudulent withdrawal of Rs. 18.50 lakhs. A further complaint to the police was made
on the next date also in respect of illegal transactions from the other account on

20,8.20158,

7, 'The complainant as scon as he realized that his SIM card has been de-activated,
approached the nearest Vodafone Store in Mumbai where he learnt that a duplicate
SUM card had been issued at Malegaon, Nasik. The request was made on 248.2015 at
1858 hours on the basis of fake and forged documents. The duplicate SIM card was
issued on 24.82015, but was activated on the next day at 1310 hours and till then
complainant's mobile was active. The SIM was issued and activated without verifying
the claim and cross-checking the documents submitted by the imposter, with the
original identity documents of the complainant submitted with RYC form. ft is alleged
that duplicate SIM was issued without following the guidelines framed for the purpose,
without verifying the documents of imposter and without ascertaining the ienposter's
identity. The documents of the complainant relating to his identity In KYC as well as
documents submitted by the imposter are available on record and a comparison shows
that actually there could have been no scape to accept the claim of the imposter if the
two sets of documents had been compared even casually. The photographs and

Signatures are quite different. 8. 'The complainant has alleged that it was because of negligence and irresponsible

behaviour of the respondents in handling the account and personal details of the

complainant that led to aforesaid losses to the complainant without their being any fault

on his part. 9, With the help of materials contained in the police report available on record and

other details, the complainant has made serious allegations against the Bank to the

affect that: It had not followed the RBI guidelines dated 2.7.2012 and in particular clause
2.8 of the circular regarding Money Mule Accounts was violated by not
taking sufficient precautions. |

the beneficiary accounts were opened very recently, had very small size of
balance and were mostly not in compliance of RYC guidelines. The verification of address of the bencficiary account holders was not done,
in violation of RYC norms. The complainant has disclosed that the transactions details provided by the I.
T. Department of Bank give the details of IP addresses located in Nigeria
which were used for fraudulent transactions on 25.8.2015. The same IP
Address had been used in an attempt to hake petitioner's account earlier also

on 7.8.2015 but no serious follow up action was taken by the Bank. In the proceedings before the learned AO, the respondents in the complaint

petition Le. the Bank and Vodafone appeared afler notice. Their lawyer's name
 

appears in the order under appeal. The stand of the Bank was that it had taken all the
necessary precautions and acted proactively and as a result, the loss was confined to
Rs. 18.50 lakbs from only one of the accounts, However, the stand of the Bank is that
fraudulent transfer of money from complainant's account was entirely on aconunt of
lapses on the part of Vodafone in issuing duplicate SUM to the fraudster without taking
any precautions necessary for KYC. On the other hand, the stand of Vodafone is that it
had no knowledge or awareness about the mobile connection being used for the
purpose ef operating bank accounts opened by the complainant with the Bank.
According to Vodafone, it is not at all connected with the fraudulent withdrawal of
money from complainant's account and that it issued the duplicate SIM card to an
imposter in good faith after complying with the necessary formalities for issuance of

another SIM card when it is reported to be lost. li, Learned AQ has undoubtedly written a short order wherem on the basis of
relevant facts pleaded by the parties and also after taking into account their
stibniissions and in the case of Vodafone written submissions, it has been held that the
Bank seems to have followed all the norms but there was delay in freezing the
beneficiary accounts of fraudulent transfers and such delay led to the financial loss.
The Bank also failed to notice that the IP Address was based in Nigeria. These

findings of the learned AO do not hold the Bank responsible for the fraud or even
 

guilty of not having adequate security measures. Since the lose could not be minimized
by freezing the beneficiary accounts immediately, the Bank was also held Hable to pay
Rs. 3.5 lakhs to the complainant as compensation, Itis for obvious lacunae in seourity

measures which can discourage such frauds iFimplemented promptly. 12. So far as the case of Vodafone is eoncerned, the learned AO has, at the outset,
identified the main issue as per his understanding in following words: In his short order, the AO has referred to Police case lodged in respect of fraud, in
Pratap Nagar Police Station on 25.8.2015. He has noted that the matter was
investigated by the police who made some arrests and came to conclusions on the basis
of documents and the pleas of the parties including the Bank and Vodafone. Learned
AQ has noticed that the plea of the complainant and the Bank against Vodafone are
similar and the report of the Investigating Officer of the concerned police station is

along the same lines. 13. After noticing the stand of Vodafone, learned AO has indicated that it has noted
the averments and the written statement of the complainant as well as the respondents
and he found that the loss was caused to the complainant due to the duplicate SIM

Card issued to the alleged imposter without following the KYC narms. = 9 14. According to learned AO, respondent no. 2 (Vedafone) should have thoroughly
checked all the relevant documents before issuing a duplicate SIM as per Telecom
guidelines. Even the signature of the complainant and the alleged imposter should
have been properly tallied but this was not done by Vodafone, It was because of the
duplicate SIM that money was transferred to the imposter causing loss of Rs. 18.50

lakhs to the complainant. 15. Due to the aforesaid findings, mainly agamat Vodafone, learned AO awarded Rs,

15 lakhs as compensation to he paid by Vodafone to the complainant. 16. Learned counsel for the Bank has pleaded for allowing Cyber Appeal Ne. 3 of
2018 in the light of relevant facts showing that the bank was proactive and informed the
wife of the complainant that complainant's mobile had been deactivated, The findings
of learned AO that the Bank seems to have followed all the norms, has been highlighted
to support the plea that Bank should not be held liable for the loss to the complainant
rather it had helped in recovery of money that had been transferred on 26.8.2015 from

the other account and hence, the entire loss should be recovered from Vodafone. 17. On hehalf of Vodafone, learned senior counse!] has placed entire relevant
provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the

Act?) and also of The Information Technology(Qualification and experience of 40 Adjudicating Officers and manner of Holding Enquiry} Rules, 2003 (hereinafter

referred to as "the Rules"), 18. Before adverting to the relevant provisions, it is indicated that the purpose of
highlighting the statutory provisions and the relevant rules appears to vindicate the
defence of Vodafone that as a Telecom Service Provider, it cannot be held guilty either
under section 43 or section 43 (A) of the Act. The AO has to hold inquiry in a fair and

judicious manner and in two stages as indicated in rule 4 of the Rules. 19. According to learned senior counsel, the orders passed by AO must show
judicious application of mind because his role is identical to not only Civil Court
deciding a claim for corapensation for similar losses when the claim is above Rs. 5
crores but also in the same spirit in which inquiry is held or ought to be held under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). 20. In large number of similar appeals, Telecom Service providers have taken similar
pleas to the effect that in cases of such fraudulent transfer or withdrawal of money
from Banks, they are merely intermediaries protected by the section 79 of the Act and
their liability, if any, should be limited only to failure or lapses in KYC verifications,
which is required for maintaining CAF (Customer Acquisition Form), In other words,

the plea of Vodafone is also that lapses in following the praoedure for KYC or CAF

TW
 

can be raised only in appropriate fora through proper proceedings; such allegations
cannot be a subject matter of the IT Act , unless it ean be shown that the allegations are
covered by section 43 or 43 (A) of the Act so as to give jurisdiction to the AO to hold
inquiry and award compensation. The plea of intermediary protection under section 79 also must be kept in mind by the AO, but that has not been done,

zl. In order to appreciate the aforesaid submissions and contentions on behalf of
Vodafone, it will be useful to analyse the various relevant provisions of the Act as

highlichted by learned senior counsel. Section 43 is as follows: Sector 43.4 is as follows : Chapter 1 X of the Act provides for penalties, compensation and adjudication for

all civil wrongs. Criminal offences when made out, are governed by provisions in

Chapter KI. No special court or forum has been created for trial of offences and hence 4 these fall within the jurisdiction of competent criminal courts. Provision under section
79 relating to intermediaries is provided in Chapter XI. Section 79A in Chapter XTLA
enables the central government to notify examiner of electronic evidence for the
purposes of providing expert opinion on electronic form of evidence before any court or
other authority, Chapter XII contains miscellaneous provisions. Under this Chapter, Section 81 provides that this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent
therewith contained in other law for the time being in force. The proviso to this section
creates an exception only in respect of Copy Right Act, 1957 and the Patents Act, 1970 . Sections 87 and 90 contain powers of Central Government and the State Government

respectively to make rules. 23. Before considering the main issues argued on behalf of V. odafone, it appears
& & PP

useful to clarify that In a case of present nature, a Telecom Service Provider like

Vodafone cannot claim exemption from liability as an intermediary. Section 79 (1) creates the exemption or the protection in following words : fed
ut
 

This protection is further qualified by sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 79 which are as follows: {a} the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced, whether by

threats or promise or otherwise in the comunission of the unlawful act; (6) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being notified by the appropriate
Government or its agency that any information, data or communication link
residing in or connected to a computer resource controlled by the intermediary is
being used to commit the unlawful act, the intermediary fails to expeditiously: 24. The word 'intermediary' has been defined in Section 2(1) (w) As per the
detinition, 'intermediaries', with respect to any particular electronic records, means any
person who on behalf of another person receives, stores. or transmits that record or
provides any service with respect to that record and includes telecom service providers,
network service providers, internet service providers, web-hosting service providers,
search engines, online payment sites, online-auction sites, online-market places and

cyber cafes,

29, Telecom service providers are explicitly included as intermediary but as is clear
from sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 79, the exemption under sub-section (1) shall
apply only when it is providing access to a communication system over which

information made available by third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or

i? hosted. The exemption further applies only if the intermediary does not inftiate the
transmission, select the receiver of the transmission or modify the information
contained in the transmission. Additionally, for the exeniption to be attracted, even as
an intermediary it has te observe due diligence while discharging his duties under the
Act and also has to observe such other guidelines as the Central Government may
prescribe. Sub section (3) limits the exemption in categorical terms by providing that
sub section (1) granting exemption shall not apply if the intermediary has conspired or
abetted or aided or induced in any way in the commission of an unlawful act and also if
on getting knowledge of misuse of its services with the help of any offending
information, data or communication in commission of the lawful act, it fails to
expeditiously remove or disable access to such material. The explanation at the end of section 79 limits the meaning of the expression "third party information" to any

infermation dealt with by an fntermediary in his capacity as an intermediary. 26. When a Telecom Service Provider is able to show that it is handling only the
information, data or communication link for any third party then subject to provisions
in sub-sections (2) and (3), it can lawfully claim exemption from Hability but such
exemption clearly cannot apply when the Telecom Service Provider is dealing with
matters which are not related to third parties but with its own customers with whom it

already has a service contract and whose personal data or information has been

ig
 

collected through CAF or KYC process and as per requirement stored in the date base
of such Service Provider. The protection of interest of its subscribers who are not in
any way third parties, cannot be covered by exemption granted by section 79 of the IT
Act. Henee, there is no requirement of further analyzing the submissions advanced by
learned counsel for the complainant that even if section 79 ) was to apply te
subscribers and consumers of Vodafone by treating them as third parties, in view of
requirement under sub section 2 (b) (i) and (c), the intermediary is required to observe
due diligence and observe or follow other guidelines prescribed by the Central
Government such as the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules,
2011 (hereinafter referred to as the Guidelines Rules of 2011). Under Rule 3 of the
Guidelines of 2011, the intermediary is required to follow due diligence while
discharging a number of duties enumerated in that rule. One of the duties is to strictly
follow the provisions of the Act or any other law for the time being in force. The
intermediary is required to also take all reasonable measures to secure its computer
resource and information contained therein following the reasonable security practices -
and procedures as prescribed in The Information Technology (Reasonable Security

Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Information) Rules, 2011. 27, Once the computer resource of the intermediary contains informations relating to

SIM No. and other details of a subscriber, these informations have to be kept secured
 

and not allowed to be tampered or changed in a casual manner. Such information is

required to be secured almost in identical terms as required by section 43 . A of the Act . 28, For the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Officer, the
most relevant provision is section 46 in Chapter IX. The parameters of his jurisdiction
extends to and is co-extensive with his power to adjudicate as io whether any person
has committed a contravention of any provisions of the Act or of any rule, regulation
ete. which renders the person liable to pay penalty or compensation under Chapter [X
and matters related thereto as provided in the Act. The Central Government is vested
with the power to appoint any officer not below the rank of a Director to the
Government of India or an equivalent officer of a State Government as an Adjudicating
officer for holding an inquiry in the manner preseribed by the Central Government. The
word 'inguiry' has been used in an expansive manner to cover all facets and aspects of
adjudication for the purpose of levying penalty or compensation under Chapter DX.
The jurisdiction extends to claims for injury or damage not exceeding Rs. 5 crores. For
Higher claims the jurisdiction shall remain with the competent Court. The Adjudicating
officer is required to grant a reasonable opportunity to the person proceeded against for
making representation in the matter. On the basis of inquiry, the AO, if he is satisfied

that the person has committed the contravention, may impose or award appropriate

penalty or compensation, 20 29. Since the Adjudicating officer may have to adjudicate claims invelving amount
upto Rs. 5 crores, he is required to possess prescribed experience in the feld of
Information Technology together with legal or judicial experience of prescribed nature.
The proceedings before the AO are deemed to be Judicial proceedings for the purpose
of sections 193 and 228 of Indian Penal Code and the AO is deemed to be a Civil Court
for certain provisions in the Civil Procedure Code as well as in the Code of Criminal
procedure. He has the same powers of a Civil Court which have been conferred on the

Cyber Appellate Tribunal, 30. 'The provisions in the Rules of 2003 further add to the eligibility and qualification
for Adjudicating officer. Rule 4 specifies the scope and manner of holding inquiry in
reapect of contraventions in relation to Chapter IX of the Act . When a complaint is
made to the adjudicating officer of a State or Union Territory having jurisdiction on the
basis of location of computer system, the AQ is required to issue a notice together with
all the documents to all the necessary parties, fixing the date and time for further
proceedings. The notice is also required to contain important particulars as to the time
and place of the alleged contravention, the subject of the contravention and the person
against whom the contravention is alleged. On the date fixed, the AO is required to

explain to the person of persons to whom notices were issued about the alleged 21 contravention. If the person pleads guilty, such plea will be recorded and the AO may
impose penalty or award appropriate compensation, The person served with notice
may in the alternative show cause why an enquiry should not be held for the alleged
contravention and why the report alleging the contravention should be dismissed. The
AO on the basis of relevant materials can decide for holding an enquiry or to dismiss
the report of the matter. If not dismissed, the AO shal! proceed to hear the matter,
even ex-parte, if required. There is specific power enabling the AO to get any matter
or report Investigated from an officer in the office of Controller ar CERT ~ IND or
fram the concerned police officer with a view to ascertain more facts or whether prima

facie there a case for adjudication. 31. 'The AO is required to fix a date and time for production of evidence if he does

not dismiss a matter at the initial stage. 32. Rule 5 of the Rules of 2003 provides for passing of a final order by the AO upon
consideration of the evidence produced and other records and submissions. If the AO is
satisfied, he can award compensation or impose penalty under relevant provisions of the
Act or the Rules. Relevant considerations for adjudging the quantum of compensation

or penalty have also been indicated in Rule 5(b). fod
Toe 33. Rule 9 gives due primacy to the proceedings before the AO by providing that the
same matter shall not be pursued before any Court or Tribunal or any authority in any
proceeding what so ever and if there is already filed a report in relation to the same
matter, the proceeding before such other Court, Tribunal or Authority shall be deemed

to he withdrawn. Rule 10 enables the AQ to impose certain cosis for frivolous complairits. Rule 11 permits compounding of contraventions if any application to that effect

is filed by the person proceeded against. 34, Clearly, in respect of contraventions for which provisions have been made in
Chapter UX, the AO having jurisdiction is required to exercise all its powers in the light
of provisions in the Information Technology Act and the Rules prescribed for the
purpose. It requires no reileration that a statutory authority has to act within the four
walls of the statute. In that sense the Act and the rules may be accepted as a complete

code to the extent they are relevant and apply to the AO, 35. The orders of the AO are subject to appeal before the Cyber Appellate Tribunal

whose powers are now vested in this Tribunal. ee
tae
 

36 Section 61 of the Act debars any suit or proceeding before any court in respect of

any matter which les within the jurisdiction of the AO or the Appellate Tribunal. 47. Since the adjudicating officer has been vested with power to adjudicate, under section 46(1) only "for the purpose of adjudging under this chapter whether any person
has committed a contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, . which renders him liable to pay penalty or compensation.", the relevant provisions
under sections 43 , 43 .A, 44 and 43 contained in Chapter IX become relevant because
only these provisions specifying various contraventions and penalty vest the AO with
the jurisdiction ta adjudicate. In a case of present nature involving fraudulent
withdrawals from the Bank accounts of account holders, provisions of sections 44 and 45 are not attracted. The only material sections are 43 and 43 A which have already
been extracted earlier. These require a closer look for appreciating the jurisdiction of

the AD. 38. Section 43 seeks to ensure that computers and computer systems or computer

networks are not interfered with, accessed, damaged, disrupted, destroyed in any
material way so as to affect their intearity, sanctity or working, by any person who does
not have permission of the owner or incharge of the concerned computer. The data,
information or computer source code have all been included in various clauses of section 43 with a view to protect these also from unauthorized damage, theft oar 24 extraction. The provisions are clearly fo ensure that the wrong doer shall be Hable to

' Fr RAST Le ie - Aeros Pry thes Map a yy
pay damages by way of Compensauon to the person affected by such wrong acts. The

liability for such civil damages is not affected even if the wrong doer becomes Hable for

eriminal charges for such acts when done with criminal intentions. 39. Clause (g) of section 43 adds a new dimension by extending the liability to pay
damages by way of compensation even to those who provide "any assistance to any
person to facilitate access to a computer ete. in contravention of the provisions of this
Act, cules or regulations made thereunder." This is in addition to clause (a) which by
itself makes unauthorized access unlawful so as to attract damages by way of
compensation. Since the liability created by clause (g) is only civil in nature it does not
require particular motive or frame of mind to attract penalty, The use of the word "any"
before the word "assistance" further widens the net. The reach and scope is thus
rendered quite wide. In addition to a person doing the acts prohibited by various
clauses of section 43 , any person who provides any assistance to any person to facilitate
unauthorized access is equally lable to pay damages by way of compensation, keeping
in view the factors enumerated in section 47 which are relevant for deterraining the

quantum of compensation. 40, In contrast, section 45 A is not for wrong acts which find mention in section 43 ,

It applies only to a body corporate for its negligence in implementing and maintaining 20 reasonable security practices and procedures. If such negligence by a body corporate
possessing, dealing or handling any sensitive data or information causes wrongful loss
er wrongful gain to any person such body corporate can be held liable to pay damages
by way of compensation to the person affected. The purpose of this provision is to
ensure that if a "body corporate', a term which includes a firm, sole proprietorship or
other association of individuals engaged in commercial or professional activities,
possesses, deals or handles any sensitive personal data or Information which has been
defined In the explanation, then it has to be careful and can not be negligent m
implementing and maintaining reasonable security practice and procedures which also

have been explained with the help of explanation no. (1), 41. Tt is always easy for a body corporate or any person such as Bank which stores
sensitive data or information to claim that it has installed and put to use the required
level of security, practice and procedures and that it should not be held negligent.
However, such plea in order to succeed must be proved by bringing on record the
details of seourity practices and procedures; when they were implemented and how
these are being maintained. Even such materials may not amount to a successful
defence unless the bank is able to further demonstrate with the aid of necessary copies

of logs, records and data that in the particular incident which is subject matter of
we 26 adjudication, these practices and procedures were actually put to practice and in spite of

that the unauthorized or fraudulent transition took place causing loss to the complainant. 42. An important issue arises in matters like the present one-whether the Telecom
Service Provider falls under any of the prohibited acts under section 43 or section 434
when clearly the computer, computer system or computer network of a Bank is distinct
and separate from the computer etc. of the Telecom Service Provider. The only clause
which can often get attracted against a Telecom Service provider in case of present
nature is clause (g) of Section 43 if during adjudication it is found on the hasis of
relevant materials that the Telecom Service Provider has provided assistance to the
wrong doer to facilitate unauthorised access to the computer, computer system or
computer network leading to violation of one or the other clause of section 43 and

unlawTul loss or damage to the person affected. 43. The telecom service provider, as discussed earlier, has the details of all persons

who are already its customers / subscribers, Such details include personal details

which such subseriber is permitted to utilize the Telecom Services. The Scope and
variety of Telecom services depend upon technology that is expanding every day. It ts
lawful and permissible for the subscriber to depend upon communications through the

mobile number allotted to him with his Banker and with other persons without threat or
 

apprehension of unlawful invasion of his privacy. In such a situation transferring the
aforesaid facilities by changing the SIM number already available in the personal data
or information of the customer' subscriber can have serious adverse impact upon the
subscriber. [f such an eventuality happens because the Telecom Service Provider is
found to be negligent in implementing and maintaining reasonable security practice and
procedures as mandated by Guidelines Rules of 2011 and thereby it has caused
wrongful loss to the subscriber, section 43 A can also get attracted against the Telecom
Service Provider. The plea that the lapses in verifying the bonafides and authenticity of
the person applying for a duplicate SIM amount only to violation of CAF procedure or
KYC procedure cannot have any diluting effect upon the rigours of section 43 A. Once
the essential Ingredients of negligence are attracted and established. The minor
penalties for CAF violations ar for KYC lapses cannot be treated to be an effective

shield against claims arising under sections 43 and 43 .4. 44. On the basis of above discussion, it can be safely concluded that tf the facts and
inaterials are found sufficient, in a case of present nature involving unauthorised /
fraudulent transfer of money from a bank with the help of a duplicate SIM issued in the
duplicate SIM and made it operational by including the same in its computer network,
ean be held liable to pay damages by way of compensation under section 43 A read
with Section 43 (a) of the Act. The Telecom Service Provider, in his turn, In an 28 appropriate case may sue its errant employee/agent for appropriate relief of recovery

etc. but thet will not be a shield against a claim by an aggrieved subscriber. 45, In order to strengthen the aforesaid conclusion it has been pointed out by the
learned sounsel for complainant that in respect of already existing customers'
subscribers, the Telecom Services providers have important sensitive personal data

which they are possessing, dealing, handling in their computer network, 46. Computer network as defined under 2{1) G) includes communication devices that
has been firther defined in Section 2(1) (ha) to mean cell-phones, personal digital
assistance or combination of both or any other devise used to communicate, send or

transinit any text, video, audio or image. 47. On behalf of Vodatone, it was pointed out that provisions for observing security
practices and procedures in the matter of issue of duplicate SIMs has been included in
the guidelines of Department of Telecommunications (DoT) only through guidelines
dated 1.8.2016 ; the earlier guidelines of 2012 provide guidelines for issuance of STM to
a new subseriber and also for change of SIM from pre- paid to post- paid and vice-
versa but not specifically for issue of duplicate SIMs. In reply, learned counsel for the
complainant has submitted that the purpose of CAP guidelines is to ensure that SIMs

ate issued, even originally, only to verified users whose identity and address is
 

established. This is required inter-alia for national secunty purpose also. He further
submitted that the same consideration would be attracted even when 4 request is made
by someone for deactivating an earlier SIM and for issuing a duplicate SIM. Such
applicant cannot be presumed to be the existing subseriber or ig authorized

representative unless the credentials are fully and diligently verified. He pointed out that

added advantage of coraparing the particulars of the applicant including his photograph
and signature with that of the subscriber already existing in the data base which is
required to be maintained under the CAF euidelines issued by DoT. The concem for
national security etc. are equally relevant at the time of issue of duplicate SIM.
Otherwise it can easily fall in wrong hands and cause additional loss to the original
subscriber also. The need for higher level of diligence in matters of security and
procedures arises in such cases because the Telecom Service Providers have important
duties towards their subscribers not to compromise their personal informations by sheer
negligence and lack of security measures. The submissions advanced on behalf of the
complainant are found to have merits that even as per 2012 guidelines, the Telecom
Service Providers has to adopt all the basic security measures before deactivating the
SUM of its subscriber and issuing a fresh SIM card te an applicant, claiming to be an

existing subscriber. toa
en 48. In several similar matters including in the present case, it has been noticed that at
the time of deactivating original SIM and activating the duplicate SIM, the Telecom
Service Provider or its authorized representative does not make any attempt to contact
the original subscriber on the original SIM or alternative contact numbers, if for nothing
else, only to ascertain the response from the other end. If the original SIM is still with
the subscriber, deactivation may be delayed by few hours to enable the original

subscriber to demonstrate that the applicant of the duplicate SIM card is an imposter. 49. Jn the present case, the details of the subscriber/complainant as contained in the
KYC form available with the Telecom Service Provider contain his photograph and
signatures as well alternative telephone mumbers. The documents submitted by the
imposter who applied for duplicate STM also contain photograph and signatures but not
all the information available in the KYC form of the subscriber, A comparison of the
two documents reveals that the photograph of the subscriber is quite different and
signature is also apparently different. No expert is required to compare and come to the
conclusion that the applicant for the duplicate SIM card was not the subscriber and
such a claim was entirely bogus and fraudulent. Clearly the claim of the Telecom
Service Provider that the details were verified and checked is incorrect and

unacceptable,

aL 20. The judgment by the learned AO has been criticized on the ground that it was
passed without proper hearing and without considering relevant documents such as
police report, The grievance that the oral hearing was not adequate, has been raised
only on behalf of Vodafone and that to in a half-hearted manner without supporting
the same with order sheet etc. or certificate of the lawyer. No such grievance has been
raised in the memo af appeal preferred by the Bank. The other grievance that the
materials on records have not been fully considered, is mainly because the impugned
order of the AO is a short one contained in only about three pages. However, whils
hearing the appeal and passing the present judgment, this aspect was kept in mind and it
was found that although the order is short but it does not suffer from any error.on the

material aspects and does not require interference. 51. In the facts of the case, the major responsibility is found to lie with the Telecom
Service Provider and hence, ordinarily, the entire compensation should have been
realized from Vodafone but learned AO rightly noticed that the Bank, on 25.8.2015,
froze the concerned account of the complainant but freezing of the accounts of
beneficiaries in various branches of the same Bank, was not done prompuy. Hence
there is a contributory negligence on the part of the Bank also and, therefore,
imposition of a penalty by way of compensation of Rs, 3.3 lakhs on the Bank also, does

not require interference. e Peres" a A - a Fe / we hee By 8 32. With a view to remove any doubt, it is made clear that in the facts of the case, the
telecom service provider, Vodafone is found Hable under section 43(2) and section 43 , 4 ofthe Act whereas the Bank js found liable only under section 434A of the Act. 33. The complainant has not filed any independent appeal but has made averments in
its reply that it is entitled to interest and further damages as originally claimed before
the AO. For this purpose, a more specific notice wag required to be given to appellant
before this Tribunal by labeling the claims as oross appeal or cross-claim. But that has
not been done. Further, the learned AO has not recorded that such claims were pressed
before him and has not dealt with them, Hence, the claim for damages ete. in addition to
the amount already awarded, is not found acceptable. In the interest of Justice and
equity, it must be noticed that as per AO the complainant was entitled to receive Rs, 15
lakhs from Vodafone and Rs. 3.5 lakhs from the Bank within one month of the
impugned order dated 19.5.2018. If the amount has not been paid to the complainant
still, the sare must be paid within one month from today along with interest @ 9% p.a

to be calculated from June,2018 till the date of realization. 54. The above interest does not compensate the complainant for the loss of Rs. 18.40
lakhs from August 2015 but it is the minimum interest which must be paid by the

appellants in case they have not ebeyed the order of AO and have not paid the amount

in question within the time granted,
 

x

ee 53. The complainant shall be entitled to costs of Rs. 25,000/- in each of the
Appeals payable within one month from today, failing which the same shall also carry

interest "@. 9% per armum from the date of this judgment till the date of realization. In

case the appellants do not pay the decrstal money within the time granted by this
Tribunal, the complainant shall be entitled to get this judgment executed as a decree

through the learned AO by filing an application for that purpose. 36. The Appeals are dismissed with the aforesaid findings and directions along with

the MA(s), if any. (S. K. ep
chairpereon

a4