This is the second bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. filed on
behalf of the applicant. First application has been dismissed as withdrawn vide
order dated 18.11.2022 passed in M.Cr.C.No.52742 of 2022. The applicant is in custody since 18.09.2022 in connection with Crime
No.05/2022 registered at Police Station Cyber Cell, Gwalior for the offence
punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 471 , 204 of IPC and Section 66C and 66D of Information Technology Act. As on date, there is no change in circumstance. As per the prosecution story, it is a case of large scale scam of illegal
withdrawal of money from different accounts holders misusing the SIMS used
by them at some point of time. Applicant runs a mobile shop. As per the final
report, about 1200 SIMS have been sold by the present applicant activating the
same on his mobile and then selling the same to third person. In the instant case,
the complainant has also fallen prey in the hands of the applicant. The
complainant's SIM has been again activated by the applicant and thereafter
same has been used for the bank operation for withdrawal. The modus oprandi
adopted by the applicant was of the nature of using the phone banking system

whereunder the OTP is number created and received on the same SIM number
but on the IMEI set of the applicant and that number was used for withdrawal
of the amount of Rs.6,23,989/-. It is alleged that as a matter of fact the said SIM
of the complainant though was not in use but the SIM number was registered in
the bank records. The applicant purchased the said SIM in the fictitious name
of Samad Khan, thereafter activated that SIM on his mobile number and again
sold to Tahrim. As a result, the same SIM has exchanged hands after its
activation through different names. Thereafter resorting to phone banking OTP
created on that number was used for withdrawal of the amount from the
account of the complainant. Total Rs.6,23,989/- was withdrawn. The
applicant's complicity in the crime is writ large as he has been instrutmental in
activating the SIM which was not in use and thereafter passed it in the name of
different persons some of them were fictitious names and then amount was
withdrawn from the complainant's account as aforesaid. As stated above, about
1200 SIMS in the name fictitious persons have been activated by the applicant 3 from his own mobile phone. On the aforesaid allegations challan has been filed. Shri Shukla, learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is
innocent and has been falsely implicated. Even though the applicant has
activated the SIM on his mobile number and even if the same was not in use,
that shall not be connected with the factum of withdrawal of the amount as the
amount has not been withdrawn by him but by the co-accused Tahrim.
However, he does not dispute that the same SIM has been used by Tahrim for
withdrawal of the amount. He submits that the applicant is not directly involved
in the fraudulent activity and since part of the amount of the share of the
complainant has been returned to the complainant, the complainant has no
objection if the applicant is enlarged on bail. On such grounds, prayer for grant
of bail is made. Per contra, Shri A.K.Nirankari, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for
the respondent/State submits that the applicant is the mastermind and at the
centre of fraudulent activities through 1200 SIMS in fictitious names as all of
them have been activated by him and being used for withdrawal of amount from
different accounts of bank holders. Therefore, it is a large scale scam of
fraudulent withdrawal of the amount from the accounts of the innocent account
holders. Complainant is one of the victim. There are number of victims.
Therefore, the applicant does not deserves to be enlarged on bail. Upon hearing the counsels, this court is of the view that regard being had
to the vulnerable activities the applicant has been involved tantamounting to
fraud and mischief at the cost of innocent bank account holders who have been
made to suffer illegal withdrawal of money from their account through the
mischievous methodology of activation of non operational SIM in the mobile of
the applicant and thereafter being used for such withdrawal. No ground is made 4 out for grant of bail. Application is dismissed. Observations and discussion on facts shall have no bearing on the
pending trial. (ROHIT ARYA)
 JUDGE
Prachi

 PRACHI
 MISHRA
 2023.02.01
 10:35:04
 +05'30'