Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by learned Single

Judge of the Allahabad High Court, Lucknow Bench granting bail to the

respondent No.2 who is an accused in Case Crime No.178 of 2006, Police

Station-Ashiyana, District Lucknow. The accused persons faced trial for
alleged commission of offences punishable under Sections 302 and 120 B of

the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the ` IPC '). 3. As per the prosecution version Virendra Singh lodged information

at the police station that on 21.9.2006 at about 10 A.M. when his younger

brother Chandra Pal Singh (hereinafter referred to as the `deceased'),

Manager of Lucknow Public School had arrived on the gate of the college,

some unknown persons had shot him by making indiscriminating firing

and then he was taken to the hospital. The doctors declared that he had

been brought dead. During investigation it was found that the respondent

No.2 and another person named S.B. Singh had entered into criminal

conspiracy to commit murder of the deceased and said S.B. Singh had

arranged two shooters Ranvir Singh and Anant Kumar Verma who caused

the death of the deceased. In order to show the complicity of respondent

No.2 reference was made to the statement of one Munna Katiyar who

claimed to have overheard the conversations of respondent No.2 and S.B.

Singh before the incident relating to the plan to murder of the deceased.

This was disclosed to the investigating officer on 9.12.2006. The police

acted upon the information and transpired that the amount fixed for doing

the killing (in common parlance known as `supari amount') was Rs.10

lakhs and a sum of Rs.5,87,000/- was paid to S.B. Singh through demand 2 draft under a camouflage as if the payment was being made towards

consideration of purchase of construction materials as S. B. Singh happens

to be the proprietor of the concern dealing with the sale and purchase of

construction materials. It was pointed out by the prosecution that the

phone records clearly indicated a link between the respondent No.2 and

the killers. It was also pointed out that the document which was produced

to show that the payment was made for purchase of construction materials

was fake. Prayer for bail was rejected by order dated 7.2.2007 by learned

Sessions Judge, (in charge) Lucknow. An application was filed before the

High Court. By the impugned order High Court granted bail to the

respondent No.2. 4. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the High Court had

practically written a judgment of acquittal by not only referring to the

incriminating materials but also conclude about their unreliability. This, it

is submitted, is not the correct way of dealing with an application for bail. 5. Learned counsel for the respondent- State supported the stand of the

appellant. 3 6. Learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 on the other hand submitted

that the conclusions of the trial court to deny bail were factually wrong and

legally unsustainable. The High Court has dealt with the stands of the

accused respondent No.2 and found that the prosecution version is totally

vulnerable and had no legs to stand. That being so it is submitted the order

does not suffer from any infirmity. 7. The conclusions of the High Court read as follows: 8. While dealing with an application for bail, there is a need to indicate

in the order, reasons for prima facie concluding why bail was being granted

particularly where an accused was charged of having committed a serious

offence. It is necessary for the courts dealing with application for bail to

consider among other circumstances, the following factors also before

granting bail, they are: 9. Any order de hors such reasons suffers from non-application of mind

as was noted by this Court, in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh

and Ors. [(2002) 3 SCC 598], Puran etc. v. Rambilas and Anr. Etc. [(2001)

6 SCC 338)] and in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu

Yadav & Anr. [JT 2004 (3) SC 442]. 10. Though a conclusive finding in regard to the points urged by the

parties is not expected of the Court considering the bail application, yet

giving reasons is different from discussing merits or demerits. As noted

above, at the stage of granting bail a detailed examination of evidence and

elaborate documentation of the merits of the case has not to be undertaken.

But that does not mean that while granting bail some reasons for prima facie

concluding why bail was being granted is not required to be indicated. 11. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav and Anr. (2004 (7) SCC 528) In para 11 it was noted as follows: Sudarshan Singh (2002 (3) SC 598) and Puran v. Rambilas (2001 (6) SCC 338)." 12. It was also noted in the said case that the conditions laid down under Section 437 (1)(i) are sine qua non for granting bail even under Section 439 of the Code. 13. In Puran v. Rambilas and Anr. (2001 (6) SCC 338) it was noted as

follows: 14. Above being the position, we are of the view that the High Court was

not justified in granting bail to respondent No.2. The order granting bail is

set aside. The respondent No.2 who was released on bail shall surrender to

custody forthwith. We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion

on merits of the case. 15. Appeal is allowed. ..................................J. 8 (Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT)

 ..................................J.
 (C.K. THAKKER)
New Delhi,
October 21, 2008 9