R.F. Nariman, J. Leave granted. 1. These appeals are from a judgment of the Delhi High

Court disposing off several appeals and cross appeals. They 2 relate to two American Companies which are the assessees in

the present case, namely, e-Funds Corporation, USA (relating

to assessment years 2000-01 to 2002-03 and 2004-05 to 2007- 08) and e-Funds IT Solutions Group Inc., USA (relating to

assessment years 2000-01 to 2002-03 and 2005-06 to 2007- 08). The appeals from the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal

(ITAT) by the assessees were allowed by the High Court,

whereas cross-appeals by the department were rejected. After

framing several substantial questions of law, the High Court

narrated the undisputed facts as follows: The details of these transactions have to be
examined in depth and have to be referred below.
e-Fund India being a domestic company and
resident in India was taxed on the income earned in
India as well as its global income in accordance with
the provisions of the Act. The international
transactions between the assessees and e-Fund
India and the income of e-Fund India, it is accepted,
were made subject matter of arms length pricing
adjudication by the Transfer Pricing Officer (TPO,
for short) and the Assessing Officer (AO, for short)
in the returns of income filed by e-Fund India. We
are not primarily concerned with the merits of the
computation of income declared and assessed in
the hands of e-Fund India in the present appeals,
though the factum that e-Fund India was assessed
to tax on its global income as per law or on arms
length pricing in relation to associated transactions
and the basis of the said computation of income
earned by e-Fund India, as noticed below, is a
relevant and an important fact. Revenue has not
disputed the said legal position. It is the contention
of the Revenue that income of the two assessees
were attributable to India because the two
assessees had PE in India and should be taxed in
India, irrespective of whether the said assessees
had paid taxes in USA. Income earned and taxed in
the hands of e-Fund India was different from the
income attributable to the two assessees. Thus the
balance or differential amount, i.e., income
attributable to the two assessees, which was not
included in income earned and taxed in the hands
of e-Fund India, should be taxed in India. 8. As a principle what is stated and submitted by the
 Revenue cannot be contested and in fact not
 contested by the assessees as it is a principle
 applicable to international taxation. A foreign or a
 non-resident company can be taxed in the country
 where it has a subsidiary, which is also a PE on the
 income attributable to the said PE, even if the
 subsidiary (in the present case of e-Fund India) is
 being taxed in the said country. The principle being
 that subsidiary being an independent and a distinct
 entity is taxed for its income, whereas the foreign
 entity, i.e., holding company is taxed for the income
 earned by the said independent entity attributable to
 the PE in the country where subsidiary is situated.
 The income of the subsidiary is not taxed in the
 hands of the non-resident principal and vice-versa.
 Thus, there is no double taxation in the hands of the
 holding company as income of the subsidiary is not
 taxed as income of foreign holding assessee. The
 principle is that a subsidiary constitutes an
 independent legal entity for the purpose of taxation.” 2. The assessing authority decided that the assessees had

a permanent establishment (hereinafter referred to as PE) as

they had a fixed place where they carried on their own business

in Delhi, and that, consequently, Article 5 of the India U.S.

Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement of 1990 (hereinafter

referred to as DTAA) was attracted. Consequently, the

assessees were liable to pay tax in respect of what they earned

from the aforesaid fixed place PE in India. The CIT (Appeals) 5 dismissed the appeals of the assessees holding that Article 5 was attracted, not only because there was a fixed place where

the assessees carried on their business, but also because they

were “service PEs” and “agency PEs” under Article 5. In an

appeal to the ITAT, the ITAT held that the CIT (Appeals) was

right in holding that a “fixed place PE” and “service PE” had

been made out under Article 5 , but said nothing about the

“agency PE” as that was not argued by the Revenue before the

ITAT. However, the ITAT, on a calculation formula different

from that of the CIT (Appeals), arrived at a nil figure of income

for all the relevant assessment years. The appeal of the

assessees to the High Court proved successful and the High

Court, by an elaborate judgment, has set aside the findings of

all the authorities referred to above, and further dismissed the

cross-appeals of the Revenue. Consequently, the Revenue is

before us in these appeals. 3. The learned Attorney General, Shri K.K. Venugopal, has

argued before us that, under Article 5(1) of the DTAA, a fixed

place PE has been made out on the facts of these cases, and 6 relied heavily upon the United States Securities and Exchange

Commission Form 10K of e-Funds Corp. dated 31st March,

2003. According to the learned Attorney General: 4. The learned Attorney General also relied heavily upon an

admission made under the mutual agreement procedure (MAP)

under Article 27 of the DTAA, in which, for the assessment year

2003-04 qua e-Funds Corp., and assessment years 2003-04

and 2004-05 qua e-Funds IT Solution Inc., the assessees have

admitted that income tax will be attributable “to the Indian PEs” 13 based on a certain ratio and that, therefore, it is clear that this

admission would continue to bind the assessees in all

subsequent years as there was no change in the factual

position. 5. As against this, Shri S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel

for the respondents, has argued that the tests for whether there

is a fixed place PE have now been settled by the judgment of

this Court in Formula One (supra), and that it is clear that for a

fixed place PE, it must be necessary that the said fixed place

must be “at the disposal” of the assessees, which means that

the assessees must have a right to use the premises for the

purpose of their own business, which has not been made out in

the facts of this case. He further argued that, on the facts of

this case, both the US companies as well as the Indian

company pay income tax, and the Transfer Pricing Officer by

his order dated 22nd February, 2006, has specifically held that

whatever is paid under various agreements between the US

companies and the Indian company are on arm’s length pricing

and that, this being the case, even if a fixed place PE is found, 14 once arm’s length price is paid, the US companies go out of the

dragnet of Indian taxation. He also adverted to Article 5(6) to

state that the mere fact that a 100% subsidiary may be carrying

on business in India does not by itself means that the holding

company would have a PE in India. Further, according to

learned counsel, so far as the service PE is concerned, even

the assessing officer did not find that such a PE existed. According to him, under Article 5(2)(l) , it is necessary that the

foreign enterprises must provide services to customers who are

in India, which is not Revenue’s case as all their customers

exist only outside India. Further, according to the learned

counsel, the entire personnel engaged in the Indian operations

are employed only by the Indian company and the fact that the

US companies may indirectly control such employees is only for

purposes of protecting their own interest. Ultimately, there are

four businesses that the assessees are engaged in, namely,

ATM Management Services, Electronic Payment Management,

Decision Support and Risk Management and Global

Outsourcing and Professional Services. Since all these

businesses are carried on outside India and the property 15 through which these businesses are carried out, namely ATM

networks, software solutions and other hardware networks and

information technology infrastructure were all located outside

India, the activities of e-Funds India are independent business

activities on which, as has been noticed by the High Court,

independent profits are made and income assessed to tax

under the Income Tax Act . According to the learned counsel,

“agency PE” was never argued before the assessing officer and

even before the ITAT. Therefore, no factual foundation for the

same has been laid. Equally, according to the learned counsel,

the settlement procedure availed for the assessment years in

question cannot be said to be binding for subsequent years as

they were without prejudice to the assessees’ contention that

they have no PE in India. He also relied upon the OECD

Commentary, paragraph 3.6 in particular, to demonstrate that

the so-called admissions made and relied upon by the three

authorities below were correctly overturned by the High Court. Learned counsel also stated that the ground of adverse

inference was never argued or put before any of the authorities

below, and the only place that it could be found is in the 16 assessment order for the year 2003-04, which order became

non est as it was substituted by the agreement entered into

between the parties ending in withdrawal of appeals before the

CIT (Appeals). Thus, according to the learned counsel, the

view of the High Court is absolutely correct and should not be

interfered with. Learned counsel also argued that the cross- appeals of the Revenue were correctly dismissed in that, even

though the ITAT decided the case in law against the

assessees, yet it found on facts, differing from the calculation

formula by the authorities below, that nil tax was payable. This

is the only part of the ITAT judgment upheld by the High Court,

and should not, therefore, be disturbed in any case. 6. Before we deal with the submissions made on both sides,

it is necessary to first set out the statutory background. This is

contained in Section 90 of the Income Tax Act, before it was

amended in 2009. Section 90(1) and 90(2) of the Income Tax

Act, as it then stood, read as under: 7. Under this provision, the India US Double Taxation

Avoidance Agreement of 1990 was made. We are directly

concerned with Article 5 of the DTAA, which reads as under: (l) the furnishing of services, other than included
services as defined in Article 12 (Royalties and
Fees for Included Services), within a Contracting
State by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel, but only if: 3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this
Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be
deemed not to include any one or more of the
following: 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1
and 2, where a person—other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 5 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an
enterprise of the other Contracting State, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent
establishment in the first-mentioned State, if: mentioned State an authority to conclude on behalf
of the enterprise, unless his activities are limited to
those mentioned in paragraph 3 which, if exercised
through a fixed place of business, would not make
that fixed place of business a permanent
establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph; (b) he has no such authority but habitually maintains
in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or
merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods
or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise, and
some additional activities conducted in the State on
behalf of the enterprise have contributed to the sale
of the goods or merchandise; or (c) he habitually secures orders in the first-
mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the
enterprise. 5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be
deemed to have a permanent establishment in the
other Contracting State merely because it carries on
business in that other State through a broker,
general commission agent, or any other agent of an
independent status, provided that such persons are
acting in the ordinary course of their business.
However, when the activities of such an agent are
devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that
enterprise and the transactions between the agent
and the enterprise are not made under arm’s length
conditions, he shall not be considered an agent of
independent status within the meaning of this
paragraph. 6. The fact that a company which is a resident of a
 Contracting State controls or is controlled by a
 company which is a resident of the other
 Contracting State, or which carries on business in
 that other State (whether through a permanent
 establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself
 constitute either company a permanent
 establishment of the other.” 8. Article 7 has also been referred to, by which the profits of

an enterprise of a contracting State may be taxed in the other

State only to the extent of so much of the business as is

attributable to a permanent establishment in the other State. Article 25 was referred to by the learned Attorney General to

counter an argument made by Shri Ganesh based upon

affidavits filed before this Court stating that if the assessees

were made to pay tax in India, there would be double taxation. Article 25 provides for relief from such double taxation, by

which the United States shall allow to a resident or citizen of the

United States as a credit against US tax on income tax that is

paid to India by or on behalf of such citizen in India. Article 27 is also important and reads as under: 9. This Article must be read with Rule 44H of the Income

Tax Rules, 1962, which reads as under: General of Income-tax, if the assessee,— 24 (i) gives his acceptance to the
 resolution taken under mutual
 agreement procedure; and (ii) withdraws his appeal, if any,
 pending on the issue which
 was the subject matter for
 adjudication under mutual
 agreement procedure. (5) The amount of tax, interest or penalty already
 determined shall be adjusted after incorporating the
 decision taken under mutual agreement procedure
 in the manner provided under the Income-tax Act,
 1961 (43 of 1961), or the rules made thereunder to
 the extent that they are not contrary to the
 resolution arrived at. Explanation.—For the purposes of rules 44G and
 44H, “Competent Authority of India” shall mean an
 officer authorised by the Central Government for the
 purposes of discharging the functions as such.” 10. The Income Tax Act , in particular Section 90 thereof,

does not speak of the concept of a PE. This is a creation only

of the DTAA. By virtue of Article 7(1) of the DTAA, the

business income of companies which are incorporated in the

US will be taxable only in the US, unless it is found that they

were PEs in India, in which event their business income, to the

extent to which it is attributable to such PEs, would be taxable

in India. Article 5 of the DTAA set out hereinabove provides for 25 three distinct types of PEs with which we are concerned in the

present case: fixed place of business PE under Articles 5(1) and 5(2)(a) to 5(2)(k); service PE under Article 5(2)(l) and

agency PE under Article 5(4). Specific and detailed criteria are

set out in the aforesaid provisions in order to fulfill the

conditions of these PEs existing in India. The burden of proving

the fact that a foreign assessee has a PE in India and must,

therefore, suffer tax from the business generated from such PE

is initially on the Revenue. With these prefatory remarks, let us

analyse whether the respondents can be brought within any of

the sub-clauses of Article 5. 11. Since the Revenue originally relied on fixed place of

business PE, this will be tackled first. Under Article 5(1) , a PE

means a fixed place of business through which the business of

an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on. What is a “fixed

place of business” is no longer res integra. In Formula One (supra), this Court, after setting out Article 5 of the DTAA, held

as follows: Importance of the term ‘place’ is explained by him in
the following manner: 12. Thus, it is clear that there must exist a fixed place of

business in India, which is at the disposal of the US companies,

through which they carry on their own business. There is, in

fact, no specific finding in the assessment order or the appellate

orders that applying the aforesaid tests, any fixed place of

business has been put at the disposal of these companies. The

assessing officer, CIT (Appeals) and the ITAT have essentially 34 adopted a fundamentally erroneous approach in saying that

they were contracting with a 100% subsidiary and were

outsourcing business to such subsidiary, which resulted in the

creation of a PE. The High Court has dealt with this aspect in

some detail in which it held: 13. It further went on to hold that the ITAT’s finding that the

assessees were a joint venture or sort of partnership with the

Indian subsidiary was wholly incorrect. Also, none of these

arguments have been invoked by the Revenue and such a

finding would, therefore, be perverse. After citing Klaus Vogel

on Double Taxation Conventions, Arvid A. Skaar in Permanent

Establishment: Erosion of a Tax Treaty Principle and Bollinger

vs. Commissioner, 108 S.Ct. 1173, the High Court found

against the Revenue, holding that there is no fixed place PE on

the facts of the present case. We agree with the findings of the

High Court in this regard. 14. Reliance placed by the Revenue on the United States

Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10K Report, as

has been correctly pointed out by the High Court, is also

misplaced. It is clear that the report speaks of the e-Funds

group of companies worldwide as a whole, which is evident not

only from going through the said report, but also from the

consolidated financial statements appended to the report, which

show the assets of the group worldwide. 15. Also, Shri Ganesh has pointed out that the two American

companies have four main business activities which are: ATM

Management Services, Electronic Payment Management,

Decision Support and Risk Management and Global

Outsourcing and Professional Services. He was at great pains

to point out the report of Deloitte Haskins and Sells dated 13th

March, 2009, produced before the CIT (Appeals), in which, on

behalf of their American clients, the said firm of Chartered

Accountants stated: eFunds US is an independent provider of ATMs and
it places ATMs in convenience, grocery, general
merchandise, and drug stores as well as gas
stations located throughout the United States and
Canada. The ATMs run on an operating software
which is generally owned by the original ATM
manufacturer whereas the datacentre, to which
such ATMs are connected, operate on the software
platforms such as ‘Connex’ which have been
developed and maintained by eFunds US. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US
provided the processing for over 11,000 of the ATM
machines in its network. Most of the ATMs were
owned by the Appellant and its associate
companies. All these ATMs were installed outside
India and mainly in United States. Services provided by eFunds India: The only
involvement of eFunds India was responding to
queries raised by the customers, if they faced any
difficulty in operation of their transaction which was
part of activity (d) referred above. b) Electronic Payment Management

eFunds US’s Electronic Payment Management
segment provides products and services in two
broad categories: Payment Processing Software
and Electronic Payment Processing Services. The
business involves processing transactions for
regional automated teller machine or ATM networks
in the United States and also transaction processing
for retail point-of-sale terminals that accept
payments from debit cards and paper cheques that
have been converted into electronic transactions. Processing Services: eFunds US processes
transactions for regional ATM networks in the
United States. They also provide transaction
processing for retail point of sale (“POS”) terminals
that accept payments from debit cards and paper
cheques that have been converted into electronic
transactions. Transaction processing involves
electronically transferring money from a person’s
checking or savings account according to his or her
instructions. To carry out the tasks required, each
ATM or POS device is typically connected to
several computer networks. None of these networks
is installed in India. These networks include private
networks that connect the devices of a single
owner, shared networks that serve several device
owners in a region, and national shared networks
that provide access to devices across regions. Each
shared network has numerous financial institution
members. eFunds US provides its Customers with
access across multiple networks. eFunds US’s Government services EBT (Electronic
Benefits Transfer) business was started in response
to federal mandates that require state and local
Governmental agencies to convert to electronic
payment methods for the distribution of benefits
under entitlement programs, primarily food stamps
and Transitional Aid to Needy Families. The EBT
processing system manages, supports, and controls
the electronic payment and distribution of cash
benefits to program participants through ATMs and
POS networks. As mentioned earlier, these are
mostly located in USA. In any case, none was
located in India. Software Products: eFunds US develops and sells
electronic funds transfer software, Connex and
Architect, used in electronic payment services to in- house processors and regional networks in 23
foreign countries and in the United States. None of
the software products of eFunds US was licensed or
installed in India. This software runs on IBM and
Tandem computing platforms. eFunds US also
provides software maintenance and support
services as part of its Global Outsourcing business.
eFunds US has developed various other
software/solutions. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US
was responsible for Customer Interface and
customization of products and services as per the
dictates of the Customer. Agreement/contracts with
the Customer were entered into by eFunds US. All
risks and responsibilities for performance of the
Contract at all times were of eFunds US only. All
Software’s/solutions are developed by eFunds US.
Software writing and conceptualization of ideas
were done by eFunds US. All Networks and
Infrastructure for this category of services is owned
by eFunds US only. Connex was developed by a
company acquired by eFunds US. eFunds US’s
associate company in United Kingdom has
developed and owns the Architect software which is
middleware used primarily by financial institutions in
Europe (there is one customer in Chicago). This
software runs on IBM and Tandem computing
platforms. All of them were located outside India. In accordance with the terms of the contract with
Government Agencies, eFunds US is responsible
for management, support and control of the
electronic payment band distribution of cash
benefits to program participants through its ATM
and point of sale network. Services provided by eFunds India: eFunds India
provided testing, bug fixing and other related 40 software development support services to eFunds
US for various software/software based solutions
developed by eFunds US. Such services are
required by eFunds US in the course of
development of software/software based solutions
and their use in providing services to customers.
The process of development of software/solutions
involves testing the same with sample data to
determine the workability of the software. Further,
certain errors or bugs may be found in the
software/solutions at such eFunds US avails the
services of eFunds India for bug fixing. The work performed by eFunds India for eFunds
Government Services Business (EBT Processing)
was limited to responding to the inbound calls made
to its call centre for enquiry on non-acceptance of
cheques and opening of accounts. c) Decision Support & Risk Management

eFunds’ US Decision Support & Risk Management
(“Risk Management”) segment provides risk
management-based data and other products to
financial institutions, retailers and other businesses
that assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk
of opening a new account or accepting a cheque.
This segment offers products and services that help
determine the likelihood of account fraud and
identity manipulation and assess the overall risks
involved in opening new accounts or accepting
payment transactions. SCAN: SCAN or Shared Cheque Authorization
Network, helps retailers reduce the risk of write-offs
for dishonoured cheques due to insufficient funds
and other forms of account fraud or identity
manipulation. When a cheque is presented as
payment at the point-of-sale, SCAN members run 41 the cheque through a scanner. The information on
the cheque is then compared to the SCAN database
to determine whether there have been payment
problems with the cheque writer or his or her
account. SCAN then reports any issues to the
retailer and the merchant decides whether or not to
accept the cheque. ChexSystems: The ChexSystems business is a
provider of new account applicant verification
services for financial institutions. ChexSystems
provides access to more than 17 million closed-for-
cause account histories and has recorded 124
million new account enquiries. An account is
considered closed-for-cause when, for example, a
consumer refuses to pay the account fee and the
bank closes the account. ChexSystems helps
financial institutions immediately assess the risks
involved in opening an account for a new customer
by supporting real-time enquiries to its database of
consumer debit account performance. ChexSystems’ database includes account history
data provided by or purchased from financial
institutions and other data purchased from third
parties including driver’s license data, deceased
person’s records and suspect address lists. All such
data base relates to the persons located in the US
and the customers of this data base were banks
and retailers located in the US. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US
was responsible for Customer interface and
agreement/contracts with the customers were
entered into by eFunds US. All risks and
responsibilities for performance of contracts at all
times were of eFunds US only. All eFunds risk
management services are based on, or enhanced
by eFunds’ proprietary DebitBureau database,
which is located in data centres of the group 42 situated in USA. DebitBureau contains over three
billion records and includes data form eFunds
ChexSystemsSM and SCANSM databases and
other sources. The data in DebitBureau is used to
screen for potentially incorrect, inconsistent, or
fraudulent social security numbers, home
addresses, telephone numbers, driver license
information, and other indicators of possible identity
manipulation. Using this data, eFunds US can
perform various tests to validate a consumer’s
identity and assess and rank the risk of fraud
associated with opening an account for or
accepting a payment from that consumer. eFunds
US software development centers in the United
States, as well as in the U.S. data centers and
remotely at the customers’ sites develop and
maintain software for these service offerings. Services provided by eFunds India: The work
performed by eFunds India involved responding to
the inbound calls made by the customers located
outside India to customer support center of eFunds
US. These calls were routed to eFunds India for
enquiry on non-acceptance of cheques and opening
of accounts. eFunds India also provided software support
services for SCAN and Chex process. eFunds India
was only involved in bug fixing and software
maintenance. d) Global Outsourcing Services &
Professional Services
eFunds US provide its clients with information
technology and business process outsourcing
services to complement and support its electronic
payments business. Its business process
management and outsourcing services focus on
both back-office and customer support business 43 processes, such as accounting operations, help
desk, account management, transaction processing
and call center operations. It consists of providing
information technology services including
maintenance of hardware and networks, installation
of eFunds US electronic payment products and the
integration of these products within the customer’s
existing information technology infrastructure. All of
these hardwares, networks and information
technology infrastructure were located outside India.
Professional services include customizing standard
eFunds US products and developing new
applications for clients who want additional features
and functionality and help clients test and refine
eFunds US products in their information technology
environments. In addition, it also covers providing
on-site user training on eFunds US products and
solutions for the information technology, operations
and management staff of clients. Services provided by eFunds US: eFunds US
was responsible for Customer Interface and
customization of products and services as per the
dictates of the Customer. Agreement/ contracts with
the customers were entered into by eFunds US. All
risks and responsibilities for performance of the
contracts at all times were of eFunds US only.
Services provided by eFunds India: eFunds US
subcontracted part of its responsibilities under
professional services contract with some of its
customers to eFunds India which involve the
following: 16. This report would show that no part of the main business

and revenue earning activity of the two American companies is

carried on through a fixed business place in India which has

been put at their disposal. It is clear from the above that the

Indian company only renders support services which enable the

assessees in turn to render services to their clients abroad. This outsourcing of work to India would not give rise to a fixed

place PE and the High Court judgment is, therefore, correct on

this score. 17. Insofar as a service PE is concerned, the requirement of Article 5(2)(l) of the DTAA is that an enterprise must furnish

services “within India” through employees or other personnel. In this regard, this Court has held, in Morgan Stanley (supra),

as follows: 17. As regards the question of deputation, we are of
the view that an employee of MSCo when deputed
to MSAS does not become an employee of MSAS.
A deputationist has a lien on his employment with
MSCo. As long as the lien remains with MSCo the
said company retains control over the
deputationist’s terms and employment. The concept
of a service PE finds place in the UN Convention. It
is constituted if the multinational enterprise renders
services through its employees in India provided the
services are rendered for a specified period. In this
case, it extends to two years on the request of
MSAS. It is important to note that where the
activities of the multinational enterprise entails it
being responsible for the work of deputationists and
the employees continue to be on the payroll of the
multinational enterprise or they continue to have
their lien on their jobs with the multinational
enterprise, a service PE can emerge. 18. Applying the above tests to the facts of this case
we find that on request/requisition from MSAS the
applicant deputes its staff. The request comes from
MSAS depending upon its requirement. Generally,
occasions do arise when MSAS needs the expertise
of the staff of MSCo. In such circumstances,
generally, MSAS makes a request to MSCo. A
deputationist under such circumstances is expected
to be experienced in banking and finance. On
completion of his tenure he is repatriated to his
parent job. He retains his lien when he comes to 47 India. He lends his experience to MSAS in India as
 an employee of MSCo as he retains his lien and in
 that sense there is a service PE (MSAS) under Article 5(2)(l). We find no infirmity in the ruling of
 ARR on this aspect. In the above situation, MSCo is
 rendering services through its employees to MSAS.
 Therefore, the Department is right in its contention
 that under the above situation there exists a service
 PE in India (MSAS). Accordingly, the civil appeal
 filed by the Department stands partly allowed.”
 (at pages 15-16) 18. It has already been seen that none of the customers of

the assessees are located in India or have received any

services in India. This being the case, it is clear that the very

first ingredient contained in Article 5(2)(l) is not satisfied. However, the learned Attorney General, relying upon paragraph

42.31 of the OECD Commentary, has argued that services

have to be furnished within India, which does not mean that

they have to be furnished to customers in India. Para 42.31 of

the OECD Commentary reads as under: Fund Corp and the said employees were at liberty
to perform functions of e-Fund Corp even while
working for e-Fund India. The response of the
assessee as quoted in the assessment order was
that e-Fund India, apart from export activities had
also domestic business in India. This was evident
from the return of income filed by e-Fund India
where domestic income was computed separately
as it was not eligible for deduction under Section
10A of the Act. Copy of the return was furnished. It
was further stated that cost of personnel seconded
in India was fully borne by e-Fund India i.e. 100% of
the salary paid to the said employees seconded to
India were debited to profit and loss accounts. 75%
of the salary component was paid abroad by e-Fund
Corp but the same was reimbursed by e-Fund India.
This was in accordance with and permitted under
the Indian Exchange Control Regulations. It was
further stated that the Assessing Officer was wrong
in assuming that the two seconded employees were
at liberty to function for e-Fund Corp while they
were working for e-Fund India. The seconded
employees were working under the control and
supervision of e-Fund India. The Assessing Officer
thereupon has not commented on the reply of the
assessee, though he has recorded comments in 50 respect of replies to other issues raised by him (see
 paragraph 7 of the assessment order). The
 aforesaid factual assertion made by the assessee,
 therefore, was not negated or questioned by the
 Assessing Officer.” 20. We entirely agree with the approach of the High Court in

this regard. Article 42.31 of the OECD Commentary does not

mean that services need not be rendered by the foreign

assessees in India. If any customer is rendered a service in

India, whether resident in India or outside India, a “service PE”

would be established in India. As has been noticed by us

hereinabove, no customer, resident or otherwise, receives any

service in India from the assessees. All its customers receive

services only in locations outside India. Only auxiliary

operations that facilitate such services are carried out in India. This being so, it is not necessary to advert to the other ground

namely, that “other personnel” would cover personnel employed

by the Indian company as well, and that the US companies

through such personnel are furnishing services in India. This

being the case, it is clear that as the very first part of Article

5(2)(l) is not attracted, the question of going to any other part of 51 the said Article does not arise. It is perhaps for this reason that

the assessing officer did not give any finding on this score. 21. Shri Ganesh has argued before us that the “agency PE”

aspect of the case need not be gone into as it was given up

before the ITAT. He is right in this submission as no argument

on this score is found before the ITAT. However, for the sake

of completeness, it is only necessary to agree with the High

Court, that it has never been the case of Revenue that e-Funds

India was authorized to or exercised any authority to conclude

contracts on behalf of the US company, nor was any factual

foundation laid to attract any of the said clauses contained in Article 5(4) of the DTAA. This aspect of the case, therefore,

need not detain us any further. 22. Shri Ganesh has referred to and relied upon an order of

the Additional Taxation Commissioner, who is the Transfer

Pricing Officer. The said order is dated 22nd February, 2006

and states as under: (Off-shore for call centres) 53 In addition to the above the assessee has also
 provided software development services to
 overseas eFunds group entities. The international
 transactions undertaken by the assessee were
 examined vis-a-vis the method applied by the
 assessee for arriving at the arm’s length price. The
 assessee has relied on the Transactional Net
 Margin Method (TNMM) in respect of all the major
 international transactions. After examination of the documentation and
 discussion with the authorized representative of the
 assessee, no adverse inference is drawn in respect
 of the Arm’s Length Price (ALP) of the international
 transactions, as declared by the assessee in Form
 3CEB, annexed to the return of the Income.”

Shri Ganesh is correct in stating that as the arm’s length

principle has been satisfied in the present case, no further

profits would be attributable even if there exists a PE in India. This was specifically held in Morgan Stanley (supra) as

follows: forward and set-off losses, etc. However, deviations
are made by DTAA in cases of royalty, interest, etc.
Such deviations are also made under the IT Act (for
example Sections 44-BB , 44-BBA , etc.). 36. Under the impugned ruling delivered by AAR,
remuneration to MSAS was justified by a transfer
pricing analysis and, therefore, no further income
could be attributed to the PE (MSAS). In other
words, the said ruling equates an arm’s length
analysis (ALA) with attribution of profits. It holds that
once a transfer pricing analysis is undertaken, there
is no further need to attribute profits to a PE. The
impugned ruling is correct in principle insofar as an
associated enterprise, that also constitutes a PE,
has been remunerated on an arm’s length
basis taking into account all the risk-taking functions 55 of the enterprise. In such cases nothing further
 would be left to be attributed to PE. The situation
 would be different if transfer pricing analysis does
 not adequately reflect the functions performed and
 the risks assumed by the enterprise. In such a
 situation, there would be a need to attribute profits
 to PE for those functions/risks that have not been
 considered. Therefore, in each case the data placed
 by the taxpayer has to be examined as to whether
 the transfer pricing analysis placed by the taxpayer
 is exhaustive of attribution of profits and that would
 depend on the functional and factual analysis to be
 undertaken in each case. Lastly, it may be added
 that taxing corporates on the basis of the concept of
 economic nexus is an important feature of
 attributable profits (profits attributable to PE).”

 (at pages 27-28) 23. As a large portion of Shri Venugopal’s argument was in

relation to the MAP settlement in the present case, it would be

necessary to refer, in some detail, to the documents produced

on this account. 24. Resolution dated 23rd April, 2007 passed by the

competent authority of India, which was strongly relied upon by

Shri Venugopal, is set out hereinbelow: 25. However, Shri Ganesh stated that this was not the end of

the matter as the Department of Treasury in Washington, by a

letter dated 7th May, 2007, specifically stated, “although we do

not agree on the technical merits that e-Funds and IT Solutions

had a PE in India, we reached a mutual agreement with a view

to avoid double taxation”. Equally the same document states: 26. To the same effect are the letters dated May 14, 2007

written by e-Funds Corp. to the Deputy Director of International

Tax Circle in India. Shri Ganesh has also referred to and relied

upon paragraph 3.6 of the OECD Manual on MAP Procedure,

which reads as follows: 27. However, the learned Attorney General relied upon

paragraph 1.3.1 of the OECD Manual and Best Practice No.3,

in particular, which reads as under: 28. The learned Attorney General has also laid great

emphasis on non-disclosure of documents and has relied upon

a long list of documents that the assessees were asked to

disclose and which they did not. From this, according to the

learned Attorney General, an adverse inference should be

drawn, and from this alone it should be inferred that a PE of the

assessees, therefore, exists in India. We are afraid that this

argument cannot be countenanced at this stage as it has never

been raised before any of the authorities below and has not

been raised before the High Court also. This being the case,

we do not think it necessary to get into this aspect of the matter. 29. Having held in favour of the assessees that no permanent

establishment in India can possibly be said to exist on the facts

of the present case, we do not deem it necessary to go into the

cross-appeals that were filed before the High Court, which were

dismissed by the High Court agreeing with the ITAT that the

calculation of the ITAT would lead to nil taxation. This point

would not arise in view of our decision on the facts of the

present case. It is, therefore, unnecessary to go into this

aspect of the matter. 30. The appeals are accordingly dismissed with no order as

to costs. …………………………......J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 ..……………………...........J.
 (Sanjay Kishan Kaul)
New Delhi; October 24, 2017.