1 The present suit has been filed by plaintiff against
defendants seeking recovery of Rs.3,79,239/- along with
pendente lite and future interest @ 18% p.a. and cost. The
defendant has also filed a counter claim seeking recovery of Rs.
58,952/-. 2 Vide this common judgment, I shall dispose off suit
as well as counter claim filed by the parties. For the sake of
convenience, the defendant / counter claimant has been referred
as defendant and plaintiff / non-counter claimant has been
referred as the plaintiff. 3 Brief facts of the case are that plaintiff is a Private
Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at Surya Bhawan, A-1023, Road No.
6, Mahipalpur, New Delhi. The present suit has been instituted
through Shri Karthik Handa, its Chairman and Managing
Director, who has been duly authorized by way of Board of
Directors' Resolution dated 24.09.2019 and is competent to file,
sign, verify, institute the present suit. 3.1 It is averred in the plaint that the plaintiff company
is a Customs House Agent (CHA) and a Customs Clearing and
Freight Forwarding Agent. Plaintiff carried its business as cargo
agents for trans-shipment and custom clearance etc. of
consignment (s) in India to / from various foreign countries on
behalf of its clients / exporters / importers. On the other hand,
the defendant No. 1 is also a Private Limited Company and is CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 3 / 23 basically a shell company floated and deployed by its Managing
Director Sh. Mayank Shah i.e. defendant No. 2 herein. 3.2 It is averred that for the last several years, the
defendants had been availing services of the plaintiff for trans-
shipment and custom clearance etc. of their import / export
consignment in / from India. During the course of dealings with
the defendants, the plaintiff had also been issued the invoices /
bills upon the defendants, giving details about the services
availed by them, the rate and value thereof, besides other charges
etc, which were duly accepted and acknowledged by the
defendants and in acknowledgment of their liability towards the
plaintiff, the defendants had been making 'on account' payments
to the plaintiff. It is further averred that after appropriating the
total payments made by the defendants 'on account' as on
31.03.2019, the defendants were still liable to pay the balance
principal amount of Rs.2,99,590/- to the plaintiff and that the
defendants have also agreed and undertaken to pay the balance
outstanding in their account within a short span of time and in
any event, as and when demanded by the plaintiff. It is then
averred that one of the terms of the invoices / bills issued by the
plaintiff and / or execution of work by the plaintiff was that in
case the invoice / bill was not paid on presentation, in that event,
the plaintiff shall also be entitled to charge interest @ 18% per
annum. Spl. Note No.2, printed at the foot of the invoices / bills
issued by the plaintiff upon the defendants are as under: 3.3 It is further averred that in view of above, the CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 4 / 23 defendants are, therefore, also liable (jointly and severally) to pay
the due amount of Rs.2,99,590/- along with interest @ 18% per
annum with effect from 01.04.2019 till the date of actual
payment to the plaintiff company but despite repeated requests
and demands, the defendants have failed to liquidate their
liability towards the outstanding amount. The plaintiff also
maintained book of account in the regular course of its business. 3.4 It is further averred that instead of remitting the
aforesaid amount due to the plaintiff, the defendant No. 2 sent a
false, frivolous, vague and illegal notice dated 13.08.2019 to the
plaintiff thereby, claiming a sum of Rs.6,15,000/- from the
plaintiff on account of the alleged detention charges paid by the
defendant No. 2, as vaguely and falsely alleged in the said notice.
Vide reply dated 02.09.2019, the said legal notice was duly
replied by the plaintiff stating inter alia that the plaintiff is not
liable to pay the sum of Rs. 6,15,000/- to the defendant No. 2 in
any manner whatsoever. 3.5 It is further averred that prior to filing of the present
suit, the defendants were also served with a legal notice dated
11.09.2019, through counsel, calling upon them to liquidate their
liability towards the plaintiff and pay the outstanding amount
together with costs and interest. Despite the said notice being
served upon the defendants, they failed to pay the outstanding
amount to the plaintiff. The plaintiff company also initiated pre
litigation mediation proceedings, however, the defendants
appeared through their counsel in the proceedings but thereafter
neither defendants nor their counsel appeared in the pre- institution mediation and hence a Non-Starter Report dated
23.07.2020 was issued. 3.6 On the date of institution of the present suit, the
defendants are (jointly and severally) liable to pay the following
amount to the plaintiff company which are as under :- decree in sum of Rs. 3,79,239/- along with pendente lite and
future interest @ 18% per annum from the date of institution of
the suit till its realization. 4 Summons of the suit were issued to the defendants.
Defendants were served on 19.02.2021 and on the said date,
defendants had moved an application u/o VII Rule 11 CPC r/w Section 151 CPC which was dismissed by the learned
Predecessor vide order dated 06.10.2021. Thereafter defendants
filed their written statement to the plaint filed by plaintiff cum /
and counter claim (filed vide order dated 15.11.2021 / on
11.11.2021), wherein they denied the averments made in the
plaint and inter alia raised preliminary objection that no cause of
action has arose within territorial limits of Courts of New Delhi, CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 6 / 23 thus, this Court has no jurisdiction to try the present suit. It is
submitted that plaintiff is a registered custom broker under Regulation 3 of the Customs Brokers Licensing Regulations,
2013 having its Head Office at New Delhi and Branch Office at
Jaipur. Both are separately registered with Goods & Service Tax
Department having separate GSTIN Registration Number. The
defendant is registered manufacturers supplier of artificial stones
having plant and registered office at Jaipur and was dealing with
Branch Office of plaintiff situated at Jaipur for the purpose of
customs clearance of Cargo only. It is admitted case that job of
custom clearance of export cargo was assigned to Jaipur office of
plaintiff and said services were to be performed at ICD, Japur,
therefore, no cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of
this court. It is further submitted that in past three years, all the
time against the service availed by defendant, the local branch
office of plaintiff has issued bills for recovery of service charges
with applicable SGST and CGST @ 9% each suffice to establish
that plaintiff is admitting the fact that services are performed
within local limits of Jaipur and as such, this Court has no
jurisdiction to try the present suit. 4.1 The defendants further submitted that it is a matter of
fact that for effecting custom clearance of export consignment of
defendant at ICD, Jaipur, the defendant entered into oral
agreement with local Jaipur office of plaintiff in month of
November, 2017, since, then, availing services of Jaipur Office
of plaintiff and it is also matter of fact that the said office of
plaintiff has cleared all the export consignment within the free
period granted by the shipping line barring two cases when CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 7 / 23 consignment was delayed and detention charges recovered by
shipping line was debited in the plaintiff's account and recovered
from plaintiff. 4.2 The defendants further in preliminary objection
submitted that controversy of present case arose in month of
January, 2019, when one containerized cargo delivered at Jaipur
Branch office of plaintiff on 29.12.2018 for custom clearance,
which could not be cleared by plaintiff in free allowed period of
10 days by the shipping line nor the plaintiff stated actual status
of said cargos in time and the custom clearance got delayed and
container was handed over to the shipping line with delay of 17
days then to normal allowed period of 7 days. 4.3 Upon enquiry, it came to defendant's knowledge that
due to plaintiff's indulgence in getting custom clearance of
prohibitory goods in other matters, an inquiry was initiated and
during the relevant time i.e. 08.01.2019, the plaintiff was
debarred to perform the job of Custom House Agency. Upon
further inquiry through RTI, it came to knowledge that a
prohibition order was issued on 25.01.2019 and CHA License of
the plaintiff remained suspended till 05.03.2019. The plaintiff
had suppressed about this material fact and took time one pretext
to another and in between, the free allowed period of getting
custom clearance of 8 cargos passed and detention charge
became leviable on daily basis on delayed period for each cargos.
Thereafter, the shipping line charged the detention charge for
delayed period, details of which given in table below: recoverable from plaintiff. The defendants have alleged that the
plaintiff is jointly and severally liable to pay the following
amount :- 5 Replication of written statement and reply to the
counter claim on behalf of plaintiff filed inter alia stating that the
plaintiff from time to time has been raising its invoices / bills
from its registered / head office and the defendants also used to
make "on account" payments to the plaintiff at its registered
office situated at Mahipalpur, New Delhi, therefore, the Court
has jurisdiction to try the present suit. Rest of the reiterating
averments made in the plaint and denying contra averments made CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 10 / 23 in the written statement and counter claim. The plaintiff denied
that the controversy in the present case arose in the month of
January, 2019 as claimed by the plaintiff and submitted that since
long it has been dealing with the defendants in the capacity of
Custom House Agent and Custom Clearing and Freight
Forwarding Agent and it was supposed to get the consignment(s)
clear from Customs on behalf of defendants. Vide shipping bill
dated 31.12.2018, the defendants had booked a consignment
containing one container for being exported to U.S.A., however,
since the defendants had failed to provide VGM (Verification
Gross Mass) number to the plaintiff on time after taking the same
from the Shipping Line, the plaintiff could not hand over the
shipment to the concerned authorities on time, in this manner the
shipping bills got delayed. It is clarified that unless an Exporter /
Party clarifies the total / gross weight of the container /
consignment by submitting online VGM, the Shipping Line does
not accept the container / consignment from CHA and this fact
was well within the knowledge of the defendants. Vide email
dated 21.01.2019 Mr. Surendra Gupta, on behalf of plaintiff, had
inter alia requested / reminded the defendants for submission of
the online VGM so that the plaintiff could handover the container
to the Shipping Line. In response to email, the defendants also
written an email to the team A2Z i.e. the Shipping Line to
arrange screenshot of APL VGM urgently and vide email dated
22.01.2019, A2Z informed the defendants and all others about
the submission (eventually) of the online VGM. It is submitted
that the delay, if any, that took place was due to non-submission
of VGM online by the defendants on time, in the absence of
which the plaintiff was not in a position to hand over the CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 11 / 23 container / consignment to the Shipping Line. The plaintiff
further admitted that vide email dated 18.03.2019 sent by Sh.
Rajesh Gattani on behalf of M/s. Global Stones, the plaintiff was
informed that Global Stones had to pay undue detention charges
amounting to Rs.6.15 lakh (approx.) and that Global Stones had
debited all the detention charges to the account of the plaintiff.
After the receipt of the email, the plaintiff verbally explained Sh.
Rajesh Gattani its position and that he was not responsible for the
late delivery of the consignment (s) to the destination. On these
grounds it is stated that defendants have admitted their liability of
Rs.2,99,590/- as on 31.03.2019 as specifically stated in written
statement, the present suit be decreed forthwith against the
defendants. 6 Rejoinder to counter claim filed by the defendant
reaffirming the contents of written statement cum counter claim. 7 Plaintiff as well as defendants filed their respective
admission/denial of documents on affidavits. From the pleadings
of the parties, following issues were framed by the Ld.
Predecessor vide order dated 18.08.2022:- (In the counter claim, following issues are
 framed) 1. Whether the counter claimant is entitled to CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 12 / 23 recovery of a sum of Rs.1,09,952/- as prayed for?
 OPCC. 2. Whether the counter claimant is entitled to
 interest, if so, at what rate and for what period?
 OPCC 3. Relief. 8 In order to prove its case, the plaintiff has examined
Shri Karthik Handa, its Chairman cum Managing Director of
plaintiff firm Sunrise Freight Forwarders Pvt. Ltd. as PW-1. The
PW-1 filed his affidavit Ex.PW-1/A. He has relied upon
following documents Ex.PW-1/1 to Ex.PW-1/14 which are as
under :- plaintiff on its behalf. Since none has appeared on behalf of
defendants / counter claimants since 17.07.2023 and no evidence
affidavit has been filed on behalf of defendants / counter CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 13 / 23 claimants despite repeated opportunities, evidence on behalf of
defendants / counter claimants was closed vide order dated
18.12.2023. 10 Arguments were addressed by Sh. Manish Kohli, Ld.
Counsel for the plaintiff in the main suit as well as for defendant
in counter claim. None has appeared on behalf of defendants to
address arguments despite repeated opportunities and, therefore,
the opportunity of defendants / counter claimants to address
arguments was also closed vide order dated 03.02.2024. 11 I have considered arguments advanced by the
learned counsel for the plaintiff in the main suit as well as for the
defendant in the counter claim and also perused the record
carefully and my findings on aforesaid issues are as under :- 12 Since issue No.1 in both main suit and counter claim
are inter related, are discussed together. The onus to prove the
issue No.1 is on the plaintiff in the main suit and on the
defendant in the counter claim. 13 As per the case, Ld. Counsel for plaintiff argued that
material on record establishes that the plaintiff is a private limited
company and a Customs House Agent (CHA) and a Customs
Clearing and Freight Forwarding Agent and carried on its CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 14 / 23 business as Cargo Agents for trans-shipment and custom
clearance etc. of consignment (s) in India to / from various
foreign countries on behalf of clients / exporters / importers. The
defendant No.1 is also a private limited company and is basically
a shell company floated and deployed by defendant No.2, being
Managing Director of defendant No.1. 14 Ld. Counsel for plaintiff contended that there is
evidence that defendants availed the services. He mentioned that
the defendants in the written statement admitted that the
defendants had been availing the services of the plaintiff for
trans-shipment and custom clearance etc. of their import / export
consignments in/ from India for the last several years. Ld.
Counsel for plaintiff further contended that the plaintiff had
issued invoices / bills to the defendants during the course of
dealings to which defendants made part payments to the plaintiff
firm. He contended that defendants are liable to pay a sum of
Rs.3,79,239/- to the plaintiff. He mentioned that although the
defendants have claimed that they are entitled to recover the
detention charges for a sum of Rs.58,952/-, however, the
defendants have not stepped into the witness box to prove their
claim. He mentioned that the testimonies of plaintiff's witnesses
have remained uncontroverted. The plaintiff's claim stands
established and suit may be decreed. 15 The onus of proof in a suit for recovery primarily
lies on the plaintiff, who is seeking to recover a debt or amount
owed to it, however, the burden of proof can vary depending on
the circumstances of the case and the evidence presented before CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 15 / 23 the Court. When it comes to a suit for recovery based solely on
statements of accounts or invoices, the plaintiff must demonstrate
the authenticity and accuracy of the accounts produced before the
Court. This can be a challenging task since invoices serves as
concrete evidence of transactions and provide details such as the
nature of goods or services provided, quantities, prices and terms
of payment made by the other party. The defendants, on the
other hand, may dispute the accuracy of the accounts or
invoices / bills and raise objections or defence challenging the
validity of the claim. Therefore while it is possible to pursue a
suit for recovery based solely on invoices / bills as well as
statement of accounts, the plaintiff must be prepared to
adequately substantiate its claim and satisfy the burden of proof
required by the Court. This underscores the importance of
maintaining accurate records and documentation to support any
claims for recovery in legal proceedings. 16 Coming to the material on record and merits of the
case, to support its case the plaintiff has examined its witness
namely Sh. Karthik Handa, Chairman cum Managing Director, as
PW-1. This witness made statement in consonance with the
averments made in the plaint. He presented a detailed account of
tax invoices Ex.PW-1/2 (colly) reflecting the comprehensive
scope of services rendered to the defendants and there were
transactions between the plaintiff company and defendant No.1
company. The Tax Invoices Ex.PW-1/2 (colly) bear the name of
'Global Stones Pvt. Ltd. Unit II SEZ' and its address issued by
the plaintiff company. Further, the plaintiff has established that
defendant No.1 has consistently shirked the responsibility to CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 16 / 23 honour their financial obligation. This inference is further drawn
from cross referring of invoices Ex.PW-1/2 (colly) attached in
the list of documents filed along with the plaint which have been
admitted by the defendant No.1 in its affidavit of admission /
denial of documents with Ledger Account / statement of account
Ex.PW-1/7 as maintained by the plaintiff company during the
said period which was not disputed by the defendants. The
defendants did not categorically denied the ledger account /
statement of account Ex.PW-1/7 covering the extensive period
from 21.11.2017 to 31.03.2019. Further the written statement
filed by defendants reveals that the defendants categorically
admitted that there were transaction between the suit parties and
had admitted that the amount payable to the plaintiff as on
31.03.2019 is Rs.2,99,590/-, however, claimed these invoices to
set off with respect to the damages / liability of the detention
charges as averred in the counter claim. Thus, from the oral
deposition of PW-1 coupled with documentary evidence as well
as from categorical admissions made by defendants in the written
statement, it is evident that business transaction between the
parties are admitted fact. It is fact that plaintiff provided services
to the defendants. Since all the invoices Ex.PW-1/2 and ledger
details Ex.PW-1/7 filed by the plaintiff pertaining to transaction
between the parties are admitted on record by the defendants and
defendants have claimed set off, thus controversy between the
parties now narrow down to the detention charges / claim as
alleged by the defendants in the counter claim. 17 The latin maxim says : Ei incumbit probatio qui
dicit non qui negat - the burden of proof is on who affirms, not CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 17 / 23 on who denies. Section 101 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 states
that, "Whosoever desires any court to give judgment as to any
legal right or liability dependent upon the existence of fact which
he asserts, must prove that those facts exist". When a person is
bound to prove existence of a fact, it is said that burden of proof
lies on that person. It is settled law that in case evidence is not
led by the party, adverse inference may be drawn. The Courts in
catena of judgments have also held that no relief can be granted
to a party where it fails to prove its case. 18 The Hon'ble Court in a decision reported in AIR
1977 SC 409, in the case of Union of India vs. Moksh Builders
and Financers Limited and Ors. , etc., wherein their lordship have
clearly held that while the burden initially rests on the party, who
would fail if no evidence is led at all after the evidence is
recorded, it rests upon the party against whom judgment would
be given if no further evidence was adduced by either side. Thus,
the burden of proof is not static and may shift during the course
of trial. 19 In Ishwar Bhai C. Patel vs. Harihar Behera (1999) 3
SCC 457, the Hon'ble Apex Court categorically observed that
once the defendant has not entered the witness box and having
not presented himself for cross-examination, an adverse
presumption has to be drawn against him on the basis of
principles contained in illustration (g) of 114 of Evidence Act . 20 In this case significant to mention here that despite
repeated opportunities, defendants had not only failed to cross- examine PW-1 but also did not appear to establish their claim.
The defendants alleged damages against the plaintiff on the
ground that they were not informed of the plaintiff's
disqualification as Custom House Agent. The defendants
claimed this lack of disclosure resulted in service failures and
inadequacies in handling one cargo, however, upon careful
examination of record shows that their claims remained
unsubstantiated and uncontroverted. The defendants failed to
produce any concrete and cogent evidence to establish / support
their allegations. On the contrary, the plaintiff has claimed that
on 01.08.2019 the defendants approached the plaintiff seeking
assistance in clearing consignment (s) from Custom Authorities.
Since the defendants failed to provide VGM number to the
plaintiff on time after booking the consignments vide Shipping
Bill dated 31.12.2018, the plaintiff could not hand over shipment
to the concerned authorities, therefore, in this manner, Shipping
Bill got delayed. The plaintiff diligently filed the requisite
documents for clearance with the Customs Offices, adhering to
prescribed timelines and procedural requirements. Importantly
any previous invalidation of the plaintiff's status as Custom
House Agent and subsequent investigation by DRI into other
client cases are irrelevant. The defendants cannot attribute
negligence to the plaintiff based on these unrelated
investigations, as they did not impede the clearance process for
the consignment(s). Rather the plaintiff promptly notified
defendant No.1 agent about the ongoing investigation by DRI.
As mentioned above, defendants did not put themselves in
witness box to prove their case and to controvert the counter
assertion of the plaintiff's. Adverse inference can be drawn CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 19 / 23 against the defendants. Their pleadings remain pleadings only
and not translated into proves. Any pleadings without evidence
is not evidence and proof of all. Thus, the defendants failed to
established their case against the plaintiff. 21 On the other hand, the admissions made by the
defendants in the written statement coupled with unrebutted
testimony of PW-1 which documentary evidence establishes that
defendants have admitted the balance amount of Rs.2,99,590/-
was outstanding as on 31.03.2019. 22 At this juncture, it is relevant to mention here that
the plaintiff has impleaded defendant no.2, the Managing
Director of defendant no.1. It was held in case of Tristar
Consultants v/s M/s Vcustomer Services India P. Ltd and Anr,
MANU/DE/4031/2013 decided on 05.03.2007 in CRP No.
365/2006 that company is a juristic person. The decisions on
behalf of the company are taken by the Board of Directors of the
company. An individual director has no power to act on behalf of
a company of which he is a director, unless there is a specific
resolution of the board of directors of the company giving
specific power to him or where the articles of company confer
such a power. Directors of the company have been described as
agents, trustees or representatives of the company because of the
fact vis-a-vis the company they act in a fiduciary capacity. They
owe no fiduciary or contractual duties or any duty of care to third
parties who deal with the company. They cannot be treated as
acting as agents of the company. Reference is made of Section
230 of the Indian Companies Act where it was held that unless an CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 20 / 23 agent personally binds himself, an agent is not personally liable
for contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principal. Here
in this case, appropriately guided by the judgment (Supra) and
applying to the facts of this case, there is no allegation of fraud
against defendant No.2. The plaint narrates the facts that
defendant No.1 is a Private Limited Company and is basically a
Shell Company floated and deployed by its Managing Director
Sh. Mayank Shah. That being such situation, no liability can be
fastened upon defendant no.2. 23 In nutshell, on careful scanning of the evidence
adduced by the parties and the totality of the facts and
circumstances as discussed above, the defendants have failed to
establish by leading cogent and convincing evidence that the
plaintiff is liable to pay amount as claimed by them in counter
claim. On the other hand, the plaintiff through its ocular as well
as documentary evidence as discussed above could establish its
case, the plaintiff is entitled for recovery of Rs.2,99,590/-
outstanding against the defendant No.1 only as on 31.03.2019 for
the services availed by the defendant No.1. This issue No.1 is
accordingly adjudicated in favour of the plaintiff and against the
defendant No.1 in the main suit and in favour of defendants in
the counter claim. (In the main suit)
 Issue No.2 : Whether the plaintiff is entitled to interest,
if so, at what rate and for what period? OPP
 (In the counter claim)
 Issue No.2 : Whether the counter claimant is entitled to
interest, if so, at what rate and for what period? OPCC CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 21 / 23 24 The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiff in
the main case. Coming to the chargeability of interest at the rate
of 18% as claimed in the plaint it is no more res integra such
exorbitant interest is not permitted to be charged even if that has
been provided in the terms and conditions between the parties.
The mentioning of such higher rate is for the purposes of
ensuring the compliance rather than mentioning it as a liquidity
damages. In the normal trade and transaction, it is the prevalent
bank rate of interest which is sufficient to be awarded to
compensate the party seeking recovery of amount. In the present
case the rate of interest of 12% p.a. would serve the interest of
justice and has ordered accordingly. The interest would be paid
from 31.03.2019 till its realization. 25 As discussed while deciding issue No.1, claim of the
defendants has not been established on record, therefore,
defendants are not entitled for any interest amount as well.
Accordingly this issue is also decided in favour of plaintiff and
against the defendants. (In main suit as well as counter claim)
 Issue No.3 : R E L I E F:- 26 Having discussed as above, suit bearing CS No.
455/2020 is partly decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against
the defendants for an amount of Rs.2,99,590/- along with interest
@ 12% p.a. w.e.f. the date of filing of the suit i.e. 31.03.2019 till
its realization, whereas counter claim bearing No.38/2021 is
dismissed. Parties are left to bear their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to record room after due
compliance. Pronounced in the open Court (VINEETA GOYAL)
on this 21.05.2024 District Judge (Commercial-03)
 Patiala House, New Delhi CS (COMM) No.455/2020 & Counter Claim No.38/2021 Page No. 23 / 23