This application has been filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration

 and Conciliation Act (for short, the Act) for an order of injunction

 restraining the respondents from interfering with the account/portfolio

 holding of the applicant to the tune of 3,532.30 XRP coins bearing

 Client I.D.No.1709079 in the WazirX platform either by redistribution

 or apportionment or reallocation. 2. Heard both. 3. The case of the applicant is as follows : 2/54 Following the said announcement, the first respondent company

 immediately froze the crypto account/portfolio of the applicant as on

 18.7.2024 and thereby prevented the applicant from having access or

 to trade with her XRP coins or liquidate the same. (v) The parties are governed under a WazirX user agreement

 dated 01.8.2023 and it contained a dispute resolution mechanism by

 referring the dispute for arbitration under the Arbitration Rules of

 Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with the seat of

 arbitration at Singapore. (vi) It is under these circumstances, the above application came

 to be filed before this Court seeking for an order of injunction. 4/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 4. The first respondent filed a counter affidavit wherein they

 took the following stand : Since Binance withdrew its support infrastructure for the virtual digital

 assets, to ensure continuity of the platform and to safeguard the

 interests of the platform users, the Zettai stepped into the shoes of

 Binance and held custody of the crypto currency assets associated with

 the platform. 7/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 (vii) In these circumstances, on 31.1.2023, the Zettai entered

 into a licence agreement with another entity namely M/s.Answer

 Eleven Pte. Ltd. (hereinafter called as Liminal Infrastructure). Pursuant

 to this agreement, Liminal Infrastructure undertook to provide a digital

 asset wallet management services required to operate the crypto

 currency. The crypto currency tokens, which were lying in the Binance

 wallets, were transferred to the wallets of Liminal Infrastructure. (viii) During July 2024, the platform fell victim of a vicious cyber

 attack and the hackers siphoned off a huge sum of around USD 234

 Million worth of crypto currency assets amounting to approximately

 45% of the platform assets held in the wallets maintained at Liminal

 Infrastructure to certain unknown wallets. The first respondent along

 with the Zettai were also victims of the said cyber attack. Immediately

 after the cyber attack, the platform promptly informed the

 stakeholders about the cyber attack through social media, blogs, etc.,

 and provided day-to-day developments. They also approached the law

 enforcement authorities both in Singapore and in India and the

 authorities in India are investigating into the complaint filed by the first

 respondent. Steps were also taken to trace and tag the stolen token

 assets. 8/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 (ix) The Zettai also reached out over 500 crypto currency

 exchanges to block the identified wallet addresses, to which, some of

 the stolen token assets have been transferred. The platform ceased

 processing of users’ withdrawal requests to prevent further losses and

 to ensure safety of wallets. The platform also ceased to process trades.

 The platform migrated all the remaining assets from Liminal

 Infrastructure to alternative wallets for enhanced security of the

 remaining virtual digital assets. The platform also initiated

 restructuring proceedings in Singapore under the relevant enactment.

 The investigation is also started in this regard. (x) Since the cyber attack took place, there are insufficient

 crypto currency tokens attributable to the platform’s user liabilities to

 satisfy unsecured crypto currency claims of its users. Hence, the Zettai

 devised a solution for the benefit of platform's users through a scheme

 of arrangement under the Singapore Companies Act, which would

 provide a mechanism for a fair and orderly manner of distribution

 pursuant to the scheme under the supervision of the Singapore Courts.

 During the pendency of restructuring proceedings, information was

 provided in the blogposts of the Zettai for disseminating to the users

 and conducted virtual polls and surveys in the platform and otherwise 9/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 for assessing the user sentiment pertaining to the moratorium sought

 in the restructuring proceedings. Almost, 95% of the survey responded

 favouring moratorium. (xi) At the time when the counter affidavit was filed, the

 proceedings were pending before the Singapore High Court. In the

 meantime, in the interest of all the depositors, their accounts were

 frozen to prevent any further trading or liquidating the crypto currency

 assets. During the pendency of the proceedings, the Singapore High

 Court, by order dated 13.10.2025, rendered a finalized scheme of

 arrangement, which was approved by the Singapore High Court under

 the Singapore Companies Act so as to bind the Zettai Group and the

 scheme of creditors. (xii) The respondents have taken a stand that the applicant

 would be paid as per the scheme of arrangement on pro-rata basis. It

 involved a three step process. As a first step, the Zettai must transfer

 its role in the WazirX platform operations to the first respondent. In

 the second step, the Zettai must transfer the crypto currency from

 their wallet to the wallet of the first respondent and provide the first

 respondent with a list of creditors and the amounts to be credited to

 each WazirX account. As a third step, the first respondent opens a 10/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 platform for withdrawal with updated WazirX accounts and it provides

 for three options. The first option is for a direct crypto withdrawal on

 chain. The second option is to crypto conversion. The third option is

 crypto to Indian rupees conversion. Once this option is chosen, the

 Indian rupees would be sent to the bank account fund. This scheme of

 arrangement is going to be held for all those, who invested money,

 including the applicant. Ultimately, they sought for dismissal of this

 application. 5. This Court has carefully considered the submissions of the

 learned counsel on either side and perused the materials available on

 record. 6. The learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the first

 respondent raised a preliminary objection on the ground that the

 agreement between the parties contemplated that the seat of

 arbitration should be at Singapore, that the Arbitrator would be

 appointed as per the Rules of the SIAC as the digital wallets are held

 outside India by a foreign entity and that therefore, the above

 application filed under Section 9 of the Act is not maintainable before 11/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 this Court. 7. In reply to the above submissions, the learned counsel for the

 applicant contended that a part of the cause of action has arisen within

 the jurisdiction of this Court in the present case since the applicant had

 transferred her Indian national currency from the account held at

 Kotak Mahindra Bank, George Town, Chennai and that the applicant

 was also using the WazirX platform through her mobile phone, which

 was operated within the jurisdiction of this Court. 8. To support his submission, the learned counsel appearing for

 the applicant relied upon the judgment of the Hon’ble Apex Court in PASL Wind Solutions (P) Ltd. Vs. GE Power Conversion India

 (P) Ltd. [reported in 2021 (7) SCC 1] wherein the relevant

 portions read thus : Tarun Pal Singh, (2018) 14 SCC 161 : (2018) 4
 SCC (Civ) 488] (at para 21), Kandla Export
 Corpn. v. OCI Corpn. [Kandla Export Corpn. v. OCI
 Corpn. (2018) 14 SCC 715 : (2018) 4 SCC (Civ)
 664] (at para 13), and Mavilayi Service Coop. Bank Ltd. v. CIT [Mavilayi Service Coop. Bank
 Ltd. v. CIT, (2021) 7 SCC 90] (at para 44). 38. As a matter of fact, the reason for the
 insertion of the proviso to Section 2(2) by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act,
 2015 was because the judgment in Bhatia
 International v. Bulk Trading S.A. [Bhatia
 International v. Bulk Trading S.A., (2002) 4 SCC
 105] [“Bhatia”] had muddied the waters by holding
 that Section 9 would apply to arbitrations which
 take place outside India without any express
 provision to that effect. The judgment
 in Bhatia [Bhatia International v. Bulk Trading
 S.A. , (2002) 4 SCC 105] has been expressly
 overruled by a five-Judge Bench
 in BALCO [BALCO v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical
 Services Inc., (2012) 9 SCC 552 : (2012) 4 SCC 13/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 (Civ) 810] . Pursuant thereto, a proviso has now
 been inserted to Section 2(2) which only makes it
 clear that where, in an arbitration which takes
 place outside India, assets of one of the parties are
 situated in India and interim orders are required
 qua such assets, including preservation thereof,
 the courts in India may pass such orders. It is
 important to note that the expression
 “international commercial arbitration” is specifically
 spoken of in the context of a place of arbitration
 being outside India, the consequence of which is
 an arbitral award to be made in such place, but
 which is enforced and recognised under the
 provisions of Part II of the Arbitration Act . The
 context of this expression is, therefore, different
 from the context of the definition of “international
 commercial arbitration” contained in Section
 2(1)(f) , which is in the context of such arbitration
 taking place in India, which only applies “unless
 the context otherwise requires”. The four sub-
 clauses contained in Section 2(1)(f) would make it
 clear that the definition of the expression
 “international commercial arbitration” contained
 therein is party-centric in the sense that at least
 one of the parties to the arbitration agreement
 should, inter alia, be a person who is a national of
 or habitually resident in any country other than
 India. On the other hand, when “international 14/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 commercial arbitration” is spoken of in the context
 of taking place outside India, it is place-centric as
 is provided by Section 44 of the Arbitration Act.
 This expression, therefore, only means that it is an
 arbitration which takes place between two parties
 in a territory outside India, the New York
 Convention applying to such territory, thus making
 it an “international” commercial arbitration.” 9. In the said judgment, the Hon’ble Apex Court dealt with the

 Proviso that was inserted to Section 2(2) of the Act and held that at

 least, one of the parties to the arbitration agreement is a resident in

 India, that the assets of one of the parties are situated in India, that

 interim orders are required qua such assets, including preservation

 thereof and that the Courts in India can pass orders under Section 9 of

 the Act. 10. In the case in hand, the WazirX platform was used by the

 applicant. It was operated through her mobile phone from her ordinary

 place of residence and she has been prevented from either trading or

 liquidating her crypto currency holdings through WazirX platform. To

 that extent, prima facie, it must be held that the asset namely the 15/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 crypto currency was held by her in India by means of WazirX platform

 and that the applicant has been prevented from using the platform

 since it has been frozen. Therefore, in the light of the said judgment of

 the Hon’ble Apex Court, the above application filed under Section 9 of

 the Act is maintainable before this Court. 11. The next issue to be considered is as to whether the

 applicant must be construed as an investor or a proprietor of her

 holdings i.e. 3,532.20 XRP coins and consequently as to whether the

 proceedings before the Singapore High Court, which resulted in the

 approval of the modified scheme of arrangement on 13.10.2025, will

 bind the applicant. 12. The article “10 Things Judges Should Know About

 Cryptocurrency,” written by Lee Reiners at Duke Law School,

 explains as to how crypto currency has transformed modern finance

 and as to why Judges must understand it as cases increasingly involve

 digital assets. It begins with the origins of money, showing that

 currencies emerged not merely to simplify barter, but as a medium of

 trust and credit. Governments historically gave value to currency by 16/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 accepting it for taxes. Crypto currency, on the other hand, removes

 the State’s involvement and replaces trust in people or institutions with

 trust in technology. 13. Bitcoin, the first and most popular crypto currency,

 represented the breakthrough idea of creating a digital asset verified

 collectively through blockchain technology rather than any central

 authority. Blockchain acts as a shared digital ledger that ensures every

 transaction is transparent and immutable, meaning thereby that it

 cannot be changed once recorded. This technological design allows

 value to be transferred without relying on banks or governments. Yet,

 Bitcoin’s decentralised and semi-anonymous nature has also made it

 popular among criminals, enabling drug marketplaces such as Silk

 Road and recent ransomware attacks like the 2021 Colonial Pipeline

 incident. Criminals exploit the fact that identities on the blockchain are

 pseudonymous, though law enforcement has improved its ability to

 trace transactions using advanced data analytics. 14. The article notes that US law lacks a single unified

 framework for crypto currency regulation. Different agencies treat it 17/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 differently — the Treasury’s FinCEN views crypto as money and applies

 anti-money-laundering rules; the Commodity Futures Trading

 Commission treats Bitcoin and Ether as commodities; the Securities

 and Exchange Commission regards many tokens as securities

 depending on whether they meet the “Howey test” for investment

 contracts; and the Internal Revenue Service classifies crypto currency

 as property for tax purposes. This fragmented approach confuses both

 regulators and market participants, leading to overlapping oversight

 and uncertainty. 15. In 2022, President Biden signed an executive order calling

 for a coordinated national strategy titled “Ensuring Responsible

 Development of Digital Assets.” It directed multiple agencies to

 balance innovation with safeguards for consumers, financial stability,

 and national security. Despite this, efforts to legislate clear frameworks

 have faced resistance from the growing political influence of the crypto

 industry in the United States. Lawmakers such as Senators Gillibrand

 and Lummis have proposed bipartisan bills to clarify jurisdiction over

 crypto markets, but these are yet to pass into law. 18/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 16. Crypto currency increasingly appears in courtrooms in

 various forms — from financial crimes and money laundering to

 divorce disputes where spouses hide assets in digital wallets. Courts

 have also handled regulatory questions, such as whether certain

 tokens qualify as commodities or securities. In one notable case, the

 Commodity Futures Trading Commission Vs. My Big Coin Pay,

 Inc. [reported in 334 F. Supp. 3d 492 (D.Mass. 2018)], the

 Federal Court held that crypto currencies can be classified as

 commodities under the Commodity Exchange Act, thereby bringing

 them within the agency’s jurisdiction. 17. Around the world, countries have taken divergent paths. El

 Salvador adopted Bitcoin as legal tender, allowing citizens to use it

 alongside the US dollar for everyday transactions, though widespread

 use remains limited. Conversely, China completely banned crypto

 currency trading, citing risks like financial crime and speculation and

 introduced its own central bank digital currency, the digital yuan.

 These opposing examples show how national priorities shape crypto

 regulation: for some, it represents innovation and inclusion; for others,

 it is a danger to financial sovereignty. 19/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 18. Finally, Reiners highlights that crypto currency has grown far

 beyond Bitcoin. The 19,000 existing crypto currencies are worth nearly

 $2 trillion in total market capitalization. Innovations like stablecoins,

 which maintain fixed value by linking to assets such as the US dollar,

 and decentralised finance platforms (DeFi), which offer banking

 services without intermediaries, are reshaping global finance. Non-

 fungible tokens (NFTs) have created unique digital ownership over art,

 music and even property titles, with billions traded annually. The

 author concludes that crypto currency is no longer a passing

 phenomenon. Its challenges — from regulation and enforcement to

 privacy and policy — will persist and Judges, like all decision-makers,

 must understand its workings to interpret the law effectively in this

 evolving domain. 19. If one is to now examine as to how courts across the world

 are treating crypto currencies, we note as under:- 20. At its heart, it remains to be seen as to what really crypto

 currency is. The Supreme Court says, in Internet and Mobile

 Association of India Vs. Reserve Bank of India [reported in

 2020 (2) SCR 297], any attempt to define what a virtual currency is,

 it appears, should follow the Vedic analysis of negation namely “neti,

 neti”. Avadhuta Gita of Dattatreya says, ‘by such sentences as ‘that

 thou are’, our own self or that which is untrue and composed of the 5

 elements, is affirmed, but the sruti says ‘not this not that’.” The

 concept of Neti Neti is an expression of something inexpressible, but it

 seeks to capture the essence of that, to which, no other definition

 applies. This conundrum will squarely apply to crypto currencies and

 hence this flashback into its genesis, so that its DNA is sequenced. 22/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 21. The term “currency” is a misnomer, since a currency is an

 official index of value. Everyone, who holds a 100 rupee note, knows

 exactly what it is worth. However, the value of a crypto currency is

 nothing more than what a willing buyer and willing seller would

 attribute as value for it. 22. Crypto currencies are streams of 1s and 0s residing in a

 blockchain managed by the issuer of the crypto currency. A unit of

 crypto currency – a single bitcoin or dogecoin or ethereum coin – is

 not created based on any central banker’s study of fiscal data, but is

 based on data mining and solving of problems, which add to the

 blockchain. Therefore, the bitcoin itself resides in the place where the

 blockchain is located. 23. These crypto currrencies are called as digital assets. It is

 important to note here that neither is crypto currency a currency

 stricto sensu, nor can we jump to the conclusion that a digital asset, is

 an asset stricto sensu. 23/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 24. Digital “assets” are stored and recorded on the blockchain

 ledger where they were issued. Every blockchain ledger has entries

 with respect to the ownership of the digital assets held in that

 blockchain. Each ledger entry has a public and private key associated

 with it, which is not like a computer-generated email address and

 password. 25. There are digital wallets that help store a person’s keys

 securely, so that only that person can access his or her digital assets.

 Digital wallets are convenient places to view one’s assets and ledger

 positions. 26. The digital asset is stored on the blockchain ledger and the

 keys that give one access to it are stored in a wallet. 27. One can try to draw an analogy to dematerialized shares.

 The depository holds the shares in the dematerialized form in its digital

 ledger and the shareholder has only a depository participant ID, with

 which, he or she exercises his/her beneficial interest. However, the

 important distinction here is that the shares are real. They represent 24/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 equitable interests in a real corporation, carrying on real business. A

 holder of a dematerialized share can, theoretically, prove in liquidation,

 and get an actual return for his or her money. 28. No such thing exists in the case of crypto currency. 29. The difficulty arises in attempting to pigeonhole completely

 new concepts into existing frameworks, which may or may not be

 adequate to absorb these new concepts. 30. Stablecoins—currencies linked to real-world assets like the

 US dollar—have also drawn attention. The SEC’s notice to Paxos in

 2023, arguing that its Binance USD (BUSD) was an unregistered

 security, reflected growing confusion about whether these tokens are

 closer to currency or investment. Markets, users and regulators all

 await clearer global definitions. 31. Cases like Mt.Gox Co. Ltd. in Japan, FTX Trading

 Limited in the United States and Gatecoin Limited in Hong Kong

 illustrate what happens when governance fails in centralized crypto 25/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 exchanges. Mt.Gox’s collapse in 2014 led Japan to introduce a self-

 regulatory model under the Japan Virtual and Crypto Assets Exchange

 Association, which has been widely praised for balancing innovation

 with protection. The FTX scandal, where founder Sam Bankman-Fried

 was found guilty of massive investor fraud, highlighted the disastrous

 consequences of poor corporate governance. Investors lost billions as

 funds were moved between companies without transparency.

 Gatecoin’s liquidation further showed that the wording of exchange

 terms can decide whether investor funds are treated as trust property

 or company assets during insolvency. 32. Together, these cases send a clear message: existing

 corporate governance and prudential standards can and should apply

 to Web3 service providers. Exchange operators must separate client

 assets from company funds, conduct independent audits and follow

 anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer (KYC) rules with the

 same rigor as banks. 33. Ultimately, Courts have become the central stage where the

 future of digital value is debated. Through each ruling, they are 26/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 shaping a clearer picture of rights, responsibilities, and trust in the age

 of decentralization. India, by learning from these experiences, has the

 opportunity to design a regulatory regime that encourages innovation

 while protecting consumers and maintaining financial stability. 34. In the decision in Internet and Mobile Association of

 India, the Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt with the question as to

 whether the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had the legal power to

 restrict banking services for those involved in virtual currency

 transactions. The dispute arose when the RBI issued a circular in April

 2018 directing all regulated entities not to deal with or provide services

 to businesses and individuals trading in virtual currencies such as

 crypto currencies. This order effectively cut off crypto exchanges and

 traders from regular banking channels, making their operations nearly

 impossible. 35. The Internet and Mobile Association of India, representing

 crypto exchanges and digital entrepreneurs, challenged this directive

 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The RBI defended its circular by

 stating that it was acting within its powers under Section 35A of the 27/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 Banking Regulation Act, 1949 , the relevant provisions of the RBI Act,

 1934 and the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 and that

 these laws empower the RBI to issue directions in the interests of

 public good, monetary stability and the banking system. The Hon'ble

 Apex Court observed that the RBI’s responsibility is to safeguard not

 only the banking system, but also the faith of the general public in that

 system and that therefore, it has the authority to act preventively

 when it perceives risk, even if the activity in question—like trading in

 virtual currencies—is not outright illegal under the Indian law. 36. On behalf of the Internet and Mobile Association of India, it

 was argued that the RBI had acted excessively and unreasonably.

 They claimed that the RBI failed to differentiate between various types

 of virtual currencies and ignored the steps taken by crypto businesses

 to meet compliance standards such as KYC and Anti-Money Laundering

 (AML) norms. They also contended that other regulators like the

 Security Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the Enforcement Directorate

 (ED) and the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had chosen to

 monitor rather than restrict such activities and the RBI should have

 adopted a similar, balanced approach. But, the Hon'ble Apex Court 28/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 held that different agencies have separate roles—while the SEBI deals

 with securities and the ED steps in when actual money laundering

 occurs, the RBI’s mandate is to protect monetary and banking stability.

 Hence, its preventive action could not be questioned on the ground

 that other authorities had opted for a softer approach. 37. The Court further noted that what may be referred to as a

 “light-touch” approach in other countries cannot dictate the legality of

 the RBI’s decisions, because a comparative law is useful only to

 understand principles and it should not measure the validity of

 decisions under Indian statutes. The Judges acknowledged that the

 global understanding of virtual currencies is still evolving and that even

 the Government of India had not yet finalized its stance on whether to

 allow or ban them completely. The Court also observed that the RBI

 had not banned virtual currencies as such; it had only prohibited banks

 from facilitating their trade, which is an important distinction showing

 that the circular was a preventive rather than punitive measure. 38. A significant issue raised was whether the circular violated

 the Fundamental Right under Article 19(1)(g) of The Constitution of 29/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 India, which guarantees freedom to trade and business. The Court

 agreed that restrictions under this Article must pass the test of

 reasonableness. It was found that since there was no conclusive

 evidence of harm caused by crypto trading to the banking system and

 that because the Government itself had not declared virtual currencies

 illegal, the RBI’s absolute disconnection of banking services was

 disproportionate. As a result, the Court allowed the petition and set

 aside the circular. 39. In its reasoning, the Hon'ble Supreme Court made two

 important clarifications. Firstly, the Reserve Bank of India is not an

 ordinary statutory authority—it performs sovereign and regulatory

 functions that maintain the country’s monetary stability. Secondly,

 while it has the power to act against risks to the financial system, its

 actions must still be proportionate to the threats identified. Thus,

 although the RBI’s authority to regulate was upheld, the exercise of

 that authority in this instance was found to exceed what was

 necessary. 30/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 40. In summary, the Hon'ble Supreme Court recognized the

 RBI’s power to make decisions concerning virtual currencies, but

 struck down its 2018 ban on banking support to crypto businesses for

 being disproportionate. This judgment became a landmark in balancing

 regulatory caution with the constitutional freedom to trade, paving the

 way for more nuanced policymaking in India’s evolving crypto

 landscape. 41. One good judgment on the point is that of the New Zealand

 High Court in Ruscoe v Cryptopia Ltd (in Liquidation) [reported

 in 2020 NZHC 728] wherein the New Zealand High Court held that

 crypto currencies, as digital assets, are a form of property that are

 capable of being held on trust. 42. Cryptopia was a crypto currency exchange that enabled

 account holders to trade crypto currencies. There were block chain

 ledgers, databases and digital wallets to enable its customers to know

 what their holdings were. The customers’ digital wallets were protected

 by encryption with Cryptopia exclusively holding the private keys to 31/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 the digital wallets. Cryptopia was victim of a massive hack in 2019 and

 all the digital assets were stolen. 43. Massive claims were filed against Cryptopia. Cryptopia’s

 shareholders filed for winding up of Cryptopia. The liquidators applied

 to the Court for guidance on two questions relating to the

 categorization and distribution of assets in the liquidation: 44. In India, the word “property” is not defined excepting in

 laws with specific contexts. One very good expression of this word is to

 be found in a case, which dealt with Article 19(1)(f) , now repealed. 45. In the decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court in Ahmed G.H.

 Ariff Vs. CWT [reported in 1969 (2) SCC 471], it was held as

 follows:- https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 In the decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court in Jilubhai Nanbhai

 Khachar Vs. State of Gujarat [reported in 1995 Supp (1) SCC

 596], it has been held thus : This is in view of the fact that the investment made by the user is

 converted into crypto currency, which is capable of being stored, 36/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 traded and sold. Crypto currency is termed as a virtual digital asset

 and is governed under Section 2(47A) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 49. The stand taken by the first respondent is that the foreign

 entity (Binance/Zettai) maintained the wallet infrastructure and crypto

 operation, that the first respondent had no control over those wallets,

 which were under the control of the foreign entity and that the first

 respondent’s role was limited to facilitating the Indian rupees

 denominated transaction in a non P2P trading. 50. Thus, it was contended on the side of the first respondent

 that where a user purchased crypto currency using Indian rupees, the

 fiat leg is processed through Indian banking channels managed by the

 first respondent. But, the crypto leg remained in the foreign entity’s

 custody, that the first respondent never held or controlled the crypto

 asset, that if the asset has to be preserved, such orders can be passed

 only against the foreign entity and that it will be ineffectual and

 unenforceable against the first respondent. 37/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 51. The relationship between the applicant and the first

 respondent is governed by the user agreement. The applicant availed

 crypto currency through the non P2P method. The applicant

 transferred her fiat currency from Kotak Mahindra Bank to the platform

 and the same is converted into crypto currency. This is covered under

 Clause 6 of the user agreement falling within the scope and domain of

 the first respondent. 52. For proper appreciation, Clause 6 of the user agreement is

 extracted as hereunder : other in trading pairs involving Indian Rupees
 (INR) on the one hand, and Supported Crypto
 currency on the other hand e.g. INR-BTC, INR- ETH. Such enabling of trades is on a non-P2P basis
 only (as P2P transactions are offered and operated
 by Binance (as described under Clause 5.4 above).
 Terms applicable to Indian Resident Users
 In non-P2P transactions. Users resident in
 India (as defined under the Foreign Exchange 38/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 Management Act, 1999) add to their INR balance
 by depositing Indian Rupees from their registered
 bank account/payment instrument to Zanmai's or
 its partners' bank account using regulated banking
 and payment channels and can redeem their INR
 balance to their bank accounts/payment
 instrument by placing a withdrawal request to
 Zanmai, upon which request, Zanmai will transfer
 the INR balance amount to the Users' registered
 bank account/payment instrument, using regulated
 banking and payment channels, subject to Know
 Your Customer and other safeguards carried out in
 Zanmai's sole discretion and subject to withdrawal
 limits published on the website/mobile application
 from time to time. In this model, Zanmai merely
 acts as a duly appointed agent of the User, to
 whom the payment is due, and does not operate a
 payment system. You hereby duly appoint Zanmai
 as your agent for this purpose. Terms applicable to Non-Indian Resident Users
 In all circumstances, Users not resident in
 India (as defined under the Foreign Exchange
 Management Act, 1999 ) shall not use Zanmar's
 Services to trade between Indian Rupee (INR) and
 Supported Crypto currencies.” 39/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 53. To operate a crypto currency within India, the concerned

 service provider has to be registered as a reporting entity with the

 Financial Intelligence Unit. 54. In the present case, it is the first respondent, which got

 registered as a reporting entity and is, therefore, authorized to handle

 crypto currency in India. Neither the Zettai nor Binance is registered as

 a reporting entity in India and hence, they are not authorized to

 handle crypto currency within India or operate the platform. 55. What were held by the applicant as crypto currencies were

 3532.30 XRP coins. What were subjected to cyber attack on 18.7.2024

 in the WazirX platform were ERC 20 coins, which are completely

 different crypto currencies not held by the applicant. 56. One moot question that will arise for consideration is as to

 whether the ERC 20 coins, which were the subject matter of cyber

 attack and which were held in a separate wallet resulting in a loss to

 the first respondent company, can be adjusted against a completely 40/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 different crypto currency held by the applicant namely XRP coins in a

 different wallet. 57. The Bombay High Court had an occasion to deal with a

 similar plea wherein the claimant therein was holding crypto currency

 and the platform was frozen. He approached the Arbitral Tribunal for

 interim protection and it was granted and confirmed by the Bombay

 High Court in a petition filed by the first respondent company under Section 37 of the Act. The prima facie findings rendered by the learned

 Single Judge of the Bombay High Court assume a lot of significance. 58. The findings of the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High

 Court in Zanmai Labs Private Limited Vs. Bitcipher Labs LLP

 [reported in Commercial Arbitration Petition (L) No.11646 of

 2025 dated 07.10.2025] are extracted as hereunder : attack led to theft of one of the many tokens
 traded. The services that were meant to be
 provided in connection with the management of
 crypto asset was indeed indicated as Binance but
 what precisely was a nature of Binance’s role in the
 WazirX Platform whether it was truly an owner or a
 brand associate is unclear. It is Zanmai’s
 expectation that the Singapore Court would allow
 Zettai a haircut to be effected to those affected by 44/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 the cyber-attack after Zettai took over services
 under Clause 5 of the User Agreement from
 Binance, can be translated into implications for
 Indian users on the WazirX Platform. Thereby,
 Zanmai was hopeful of placing restrictions across
 all assets held by all users on the WazirX Platform
 in India. The Learned Arbitral Tribunal finding this
 untenable and yet adjusting for 45% of the assets
 held in the form ERC-20 by the users, cannot be
 regarded as a perverse interlocutory prima facie
 finding. Indeed, the view that Bitcipher must be
 secured for its claim to its own assets, which were
 only stored on the WazirX Platform cannot be
 regarded as perverse or patently illegal, warranting
 any interference under Section 37 of the Act. 35. The virtual digital asset, held
 electronically are meant to be held in trust with a
 fiduciary duty owed to the owners of such assets.
 The owners of such assets indeed agreed that a
 cyber-attack in a security breach would constitute
 a force majeure situation. Equally, to assuage
 them, in the Broker Agreement Zanmai has
 explicitly agreed that notwithstanding a cyber- attack being a force majeure event, WazirX
 Platform would take its best efforts uninterrupted
 performance of the Broker Agreement, and that too
 by treating WazirX as synonymous with Zanmai. 36. Whether a force majeure clause would 45/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 affect the performance of services (leading to a
 hold) or whether it could even erode the very
 assets legitimately held by the users and not just
 access to further services is a matter for
 adjudication. If an asset is stored digitally on the
 WazirX Platform, the provision of services could
 perhaps be suspended namely, permission to trade
 or the ability to transact could be stalled owing to
 the force majeure event. But whether it can be
 held that the very asset would stand eroded due to
 a security lapse or security breach and such
 erosion can be validly spread across all users of the
 platform is a matter that would need to be
 adjudicated in terms of the User Agreement and
 the Bipartite Agreement. Pending such
 adjudication, the vulnerable party whose assets
 stand frozen is indeed entitled to protection. The
 Learned Arbitral Tribunal’s view that the
 counterparties such as Bitcipher and Nextgendev
 are vulnerable to losing their entire value is not at
 all an unfair or an improper finding. In this light,
 the protective measure adopted by the Learned
 Arbitral Tribunal, for the reasons set out above,
 cannot be faulted. 37. To use those assets not belonging to
 Zanmai, and that too by Zettai, and to utilize them
 for covering losses attributable to other users is not
 something even on the face of it lends itself to a 46/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 reasonable acceptance. In fact, the Learned
 Arbitral Tribunal has adjusted for such component
 of virtual digital assets which were subjected to the
 cyberattack and indeed provided an interim haircut
 on the value of such asset. Therefore, the approach
 of the Learned Arbitral Tribunal cannot be found at
 fault with, on this count as well. 38. Indeed, the broker agreement makes no
 distinction between WazirX Platform and Zanmai,
 and the finding in this regard cannot be held to be
 arbitrary or unfair. The Learned Arbitral Tribunal
 has even taken care to hold that no absolute
 liability can be fastened on Zanmai and the
 Learned Arbitral Tribunal has only taken a measure
 that in its best judgment is intended to be
 protective and preservative of the subject matter of
 the arbitration agreement. 39. Apart from the aforesaid analysis, there
 is one another facet that is raised before me, in
 upholding the impugned order. If assets are held in
 the custody of a person under an agreement, it is
 for the person in whose custody those assets are,
 held to be accountable for the custody of those
 assets. It would not be open for that person to
 state that the assets were handed over by him to
 yet another person without the consent of the
 person whose assets were handed over to him in
 custody. It is another matter if the person in whose 47/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 custody the assets were meant to be held, faced an
 overwhelming and supervening force majeure
 event such as a cyber-attack and that facet would
 be dealt with by interpretation of the contract
 governing the party. 40. However, to state that the assets were
 entirely handed over to a party with no privity to
 the agreement and that such party is propounding
 a scheme of arrangement and in terms of that
 scheme of arrangement, no intervention must at all
 be made until and unless the scheme of
 arrangement runs its course in the Courts in
 Singapore, is rightly rejected by the Learned
 Arbitral Tribunal. I have also noticed that the
 Learned Arbitral Tribunal has left multiple
 substantial avenues of argument open to the
 parties and has come up with a reasonable
 approach of computing the values involved, moving
 them to the date of August 27, 2024 when the
 matter first came up. One does not know the value
 of the underlying assets as of today and the
 Learned Arbitral Tribunal has even provided for a
 bank guarantee to be submitted by the person in
 whose custody the assets were and were meant to
 be safeguarded. It is possible that Zanmai may not
 have the net worth and strength corresponding to
 the assets because the assets in the first place
 never belonged to Zanmai. Equally, the corollary 48/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 would be that Zanmai, not being the owner of the
 assets, ought not to have parted with those assets
 to Zettai, its own parent and without indicating
 what is the nature of the dispute with Binance that
 led to the current situation at hand. Even a case of
 equity is not made out for interfering with the
 Impugned Order. All that Zanmai has to do is
 regain control over the assets of its users and
 provide assurance that they are secure.” 59. This Court is in complete agreement with the above findings

 rendered by the Bombay High Court wherein it was held that the

 virtual digital asset held electronically are meant to be held in trust

 with a fiduciary duty owed to the owners of such asset. If the asset is

 stored digitally on the WazirX platform and that because of a cyber

 attack, if the entire operation stood frozen, whether it can be held that

 the asset that was possessed by the applicant will stand eroded due to

 security lapse or security breach and such erosion can be validly

 spread across all users of the platform and more particularly when

 such breach did not take place in so far as the asset held by the

 applicant in a different wallet namely XRP Coins, is a matter to be

 adjudicated in terms of the agreement. 49/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 60. If, ultimately, based on the modified scheme of arrangement

 approved by the Singapore High Court on 13.10.2025, the asset held

 by the applicant stood eroded substantially, the applicant becomes a

 vulnerable party, who will be entitled for a protection. This is more so

 since the main issue with respect to the action initiated by the Zettai

 and its liquidation proceedings before the Singapore High Court and

 whether it will have a binding effect on the applicant, is a core

 question, which will be dealt with by the Arbitral Tribunal. Therefore,

 the applicant will be certainly entitled to an interim protection in

 exercise of jurisdiction under Section 9 of the Act. 61. The learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the first

 respondent raised yet another plea to the effect that there is no

 intention on the part of the applicant to arbitrate and that therefore,

 invoking the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 9 of the Act is

 unsustainable. 62. In the case in hand, after the platform was frozen, everyone

 was eagerly following up the modified scheme of arrangement pending

 before the Singapore High Court. That is the reason as to why this 50/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 application was adjourned from time to time. Now that the Singapore

 High Court approved the scheme by order dated 13.10.2025, the

 applicant knows where she exactly stands. Hence, the contention on

 the side of the first respondent that the applicant has not issued a

 trigger notice till now cannot be put against her in view of the fact that

 none of the parties had clarity as to how the proceedings before the

 Singapore High Court is going to end. 63. This is more so since the Singapore High Court had earlier

 rejected the scheme of arrangement and later, when the Zettai agreed

 to transfer its operations to the first respondent under the modified

 scheme of arrangement, the subsequent order was passed on

 13.10.2025. In view of the above, this Court rejects the contention

 raised on the side of the first respondent that the applicant did not

 have manifest intention to arbitrate. It goes without saying that the

 applicant will hereafter issue a trigger notice since the applicant

 exactly knows where she stands in the light of the order dated

 13.10.2025 passed by Singapore High Court. 51/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 64. The learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the first

 respondent made a further submission to the effect that the scheme

 was sanctioned by a overwhelming majority of 95.7% of the creditors/

 users present and voting and that when a decision was taken by such

 majority creditors, the applicant, who did not even participate during

 the voting, cannot, in a self centered manner, protect her crypto

 currency. 65. The above submission of the learned Senior Counsel

 appearing on behalf of the first respondent will revolve around the

 larger issue that has been raised before this Court as to whether the

 order dated 13.10.2025 passed by the Singapore High Court will bind

 the applicant, whose asset is going to stand eroded. Hence, this

 contention raised on the side of the first respondent cannot be put

 against the applicant at this stage and it is a larger issue, which will be

 dealt with by the Arbitral Tribunal. 66. The conspectus of the above discussions leads to the only

 conclusion that the applicant is entitled to an interim protection under Section 9 of the Act. 52/54 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm ) O.A.No.194 of 2025 67. Accordingly, there shall be a direction to the first respondent

 to furnish a bank guarantee for a sum of Rs.9,56,000/- (Rupees

 nine lakhs and fifty six thousand only) in favour of the applicant

 and it shall be renewed from time to time till the end of the arbitration

 proceedings or in the alternative, the first respondent shall deposit the

 said sum in an escrow for the purpose of preservation of the subject

 matter till the arbitration proceedings comes to an end. 68. This application is disposed of in the above terms. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis ( Uploaded on: 25/10/2025 04:04:41 pm )