The
	petitioner is the original accused, who came to be arrested on 22nd
	October, 2002, in connection with C.R. No.I-452 of 2002 registered
	with Naranpura Police Station for the offences punishable under
	Sections 167, 406, 409, 467, 468, 471, 477 r/w. Section 120-B of the
	Indian Penal Code and also under Section 46 of the Banking
	Regulation Act. The petitioner has introduced himself in
	paragraph:2 of the memo of the petition as a law abiding citizen of
	the country, having graduated in Science and Law. It is contended
	that he had started legal practice in the year 1953 and joined
	public life in the year 1960 as a Social Worker at Visnagar. It is
	not necessary to mention various activities mentioned in paragraph:2
	of the memo of the petition because these aspects were brought to
	the notice of the Court initially when the petitioner had approached
	this Court for bail after his arrest and when he had attempted to
	get regular bail even pending investigation of the crime. But in
	short, the say of the petitioner is that he is a man of very high
	reputation in the society as well as in the co-operative movement in
	the State of Gujarat. He has served as a Member of Legislative
	Assembly (MLA) of State of Gujarat for 10 years i.e. between 1985
	and 1995, as well as Member of Public Accounts committee, Gujarat
	Legislative Assembly from 1986 to 1987. The petitioner has moved
	this Court on more than one occasions for bail and this Court has
	not accepted the bail plea on merit on any of the earlier occasion.
	One such application moved to get regular bail was Criminal Misc.
	Application No.9498 of 2004. During pendency of the hearing of the
	said regular bail application, the petitioner was extended relief of
	temporary bail on the ground of health and the nature of treatment
	he was taking in the Civil Hospital and thereafter, in the private
	hospital. This Court vide order dated 10th February,
	2005, rejected the prayer of regular bail and the petitioner was
	granted four weeks time to surrender before the Jail Authorities,
	especially in order to enable the petitioner to approach the Apex
	Court in between, if he so desired. Being aggrieved by this order,
	the petitioner preferred one petition being Special Leave Petition
	(Cri) No.1169 of 2005 and vide interim order dated 07th
	March, 2005, the time to surrender to the Jail Authorities granted
	by this Court was extended till further orders by the Apex Court.
	The Apex Court after hearing both the sides dismissed the said
	Special Leave Petition vide order dated 01st August,
	2005. On the strength of one observation made by the Apex Court in
	the order, the present application has been filed saying that the
	petitioner has been granted permission by the Apex Court to
	approach this Court afresh for regular bail observing that this
	Court has not decided the bail plea on merit. For the sake of
	brevity and convenience, it would be appropriate to reproduce the
	order dated 01st August, 2005 passed by the Apex Court
	in the above mentioned Special Leave Petition, which is as under : especially the orders granting bail to the son of the
	petitioner-Kaushikbhai and the order passed in favour of another
	co-accused-Babubhai Shivlal Shah. To
	appreciate the say of Mr.A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing
	for the petitioner, firstly I would like to reproduce the nature of
	main reliefs prayed for in the main petition in paragraph:17, which
	is as under : Ltd. 1 crore 11 Mahan Traders Pvt.Ltd. 3.67 crores 12 Shivam Corporation
				
				 
					 

5 crores 13 Rasikbhai B. Pethani
				
				 
					 

10 crores 14 Parth Shop and Flat
				
				 
					 

3.77 crores 15 Yogi Builders
				
				 
					 

8.75 crores 16 Divani Timber Mart
				
				 
					 

5 crores 17 Vardev Marketing
				
				 
					 

2.50 crores 18 Panchdeep Corporation
				
				 
					 

8 crores 19 Popular Builders
				
				 
					 

46 crores
				
			
		
	

 

 

 
	 

It
	is also the allegation that an amount of about 4.48 crores has been
	given to the relatives or the persons who can be said to be in
	close circle of the present petitioner. While dealing with Criminal
	Misc. Application No.2926 of 2005, decided on 22nd April,
	2004, this Court has considered each detail placed by the present
	petitioner to the notice of the Court including the details which
	are mentioned in the present petition and also the facts pointed out
	by Mr.A.D. Oza, ld.Public Prosecutor that as the order dated 22nd
	April, 2004, was not assailed before the Apex Court, it appears that
	the counsel representing the case of the present petitioner probably
	may not have referred to the said order dated 22nd April,
	2004. It is argued that it was not possible for the petitioner to
	assail the order dated 22nd April, 2004, because of
	Condition ?SO?? imposed by this Court, as discussed hereinabove,
	was there and the petitioner was granted liberty to approach this
	Court to pray for bail. The bail for fixed period of six months
	could have been utilised by the petitioner in getting maximum amount
	realised from the borrowers because he was the key person as per the
	say of the prosecution in getting the amount sanctioned. If the
	petitioner was genuine and had acted bona fide and that too with a
	view to expand the business of the Bank even in making risky
	investments then at least some of the depositors may have obliged
	the petitioner by starting repayment of substantial amount gradually
	within six months' period. But the same arguments have been advanced
	which were advanced by Mr.S.A. Shah when earlier petition being
	Criminal Misc. Application No.2926 of 2003 was argued before this
	Court that the petitioner himself has not taken a single pai and
	because of default of the borrowers, he should not be kept in
	prison pending trial, as this would be pre-trial conviction
	prejudicial to personal liberty. Therefore
	only, it is possible for the prosecution to argue that substantial
	amounts in all the above said major accounts were advanced with
	clear understanding or conspiracy or by following corrupt practices
	accepting kick back amount for advancing loan with certain internal
	irregularities. Even leaving scope that the claim of the Bank may
	fail before the competent forum or the bank may face difficulty in
	prosecuting the claim or in actual recovery so that it can be
	compelled to compound the dispute with substantial losses against
	recoverable by the Bank. It seems, therefore, that some of the
	absconding accused could not be arrested nor these borrowers have
	started repayment of the said loan amount so that the petitioner can
	submit to this Court that he has utilised the fixed period of bail
	of six months pursuing some of them with a view to do justice to
	small depositors and management of the Bank. So
	it would be wrong to submit that the order dated 22nd
	April, 2004, was not a total rejection of the regular bail plea but
	it was giving a very small room to approach this Court again for
	extension of temporary bail. If the petitioner's health deteriorates
	which can be termed as very delicate or serious, he can approach
	this Court for regular bail on the same ground simultaneously
	showing that while taking rest and conservative treatment through
	physician, his homework has helped the Bank and some of the
	depositors; otherwise there was no scope to approach this Court for
	regular bail. I may note that the
	learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has addressed this
	Court and Mr.A.D. Oza, learned Public Prosecutor, had argued at
	length and in detail on different dates. For the sake
	of brevity and convenience, I would like to reproduce relevant
	paragraphs of the order passed by this Court on 22nd
	April, 2004, which are as under : So, undisputedly, on
			 merits, it
			will be
			difficult for
			this Court, prima
			facie, to
			conclude that
			the averments
			 made in the
			 complaint are
			baseless or
			may not
			sustain at
			the end of
			trial and
			to hold
			prima facie
			at this 
			stage that
			the complaint
			 is practically
			 motivated with
			a view to
			tarnish image of
			 the Bank
			 managed by
			 the person
			associated with a
			political party
			sitting in
			opposition in the
			 State Legislative
			 Assembly and
			 because the
			applicant as he
			 was once
			a Minister
			in Congress-ruled
			government in the
			State of
			Gujarat. It
			may be
			that as a
			last resort, at
			one point
			of time,
			when scam
			had seen
			the daylight and
			at any
			time prior
			to the
			formal appointment
			of an Administrator,
			the applicant
			himself personally
			and also with
			 the help
			 of other
			 members of
			 Board of
			Directors, may have
			tried to
			bring some
			money from
			other investors or
			financial institutions
			and could 
			have save the
			Bank from 
			total collapse
			 i.e. liquidation. Of course, Mr.
			 Nanavaty has
			attempted to
			demonstrate these
			attempts through papers
			 of investigation
			and also
			from the report
			of RBI and
			other documents
			placed on
			behalf of the
			applicant, but
			these submissions
			can not be
			given any
			weightage at this
			stage. On
			the contrary,
			this may 
			add some strength
			 to the
			case of
			prosecution. Such
			conduct of the
			applicant accused
			 creates two
			 impressions i.e.
			one in his
			favour and
			another against
			him namely
			that he himself
			was responsible
			for the
			outcome of
			 the decision
			taken under his
			chairmanship, not
			only constructive
			and, therefore, he
			 attempted to
			 get flow
			 of money
			 from outside. The
			scam for
			which the
			applicant is
			posed as a
			person responsible is
			 of Rs. 250 Crores
			 and the
			applicant, his son
			 Kaushik and
			one Sr. 
			Advisor who
			was once in
			the managerial
			cadre of 
			the Bank 
			namely Shri
			Babubhai Shah, are
			shown as
			main persons
			involved in
			the scam and
			the master
			mind of 
			the conspiracy
			 hatched in
			siphoning huge sum
			 of the 
			depositors as
			narrated by
			practically all the
			prosecution witnesses. Experience in
			public life and
			in the 
			field of 
			co-operation, of
			 the present applicant
			 had helped
			the Bank
			in its
			leaps and bounds
			development. Ld.
			 counsel appearing
			 for the
			applicant has successfully
			demonstrated before
			the Court
			that the
			present applicant
			was the
			key person
			 in taking the
			amount of
			 deposit collected
			from the
			investors. At
			high level and
			also in
			raising profits
			 of the 
			bank to crores
			of rupees,
			but the
			case of
			the prosecution
			is that this
			very efficiency
			and experience
			has made
			him a
			person who can
			 take maximum
			disadvantage in
			misusing the
			funds of the
			Bank and
			in clearly
			 misappropriating large
			 sum under a
			particular pretext. 6.
			 	It is
			not necessary
			to point 
			out each 
			example brought to
			 the notice
			 of the
			Court and
			it would
			be sufficient to
			mention one
			or two
			such examples. One such
			allegation is that
			he was a
			party in 
			advancing sum
			 in crores of
			rupees to
			co-operative societies/
			institutions wherein he
			himself was
			a Chairman
			and that 
			Society has not
			attempted to
			 pay any
			amount. Another
			allegation is
			that in cases
			of certain
			selected parties,
			huge amount
			otherwise recoverable by
			the Bank,
			have been
			written off at
			the instance
			of the
			present applicant
			in the
			month of August
			2002. Some
			 are given
			 donations and
			indirect advantage is
			taken. Some
			selected 20
			parties were
			 given very huge
			 amount and
			 in similar
			such cases,
			many have been
			advanced huge
			amounts without
			formal resolution
			 or by tampering
			 the relevant
			loan documents. The applicant
			joined the Bank
			and because
			active in
			the year 
			1982 and since
			 1993-94, he
			was Director-cum-Chairman
			of the
			said Bank till
			30.8.2002. So,
			main allegations
			 against the
			applicant is that
			he has
			committed breach
			of trust
			of his own
			depositors i.e.
			 depositors of
			the Bank
			and such a
			breach of trust
			i.e. breach
			of trust
			by a
			Banker should be
			viewed very
			 strictly and
			seriously. The
			gravity of the
			offence can
			be decided
			from various
			 angles in
			 such cases; viz (i) total
			amount involved
			in the
			Scam, (ii) status
			 of the 
			accused, (iii)
			 number of
			 depositors ultimately affected, (iv) number
			of employees
			affected, (v) impact
			of the
			crime i.e.
			 breach of
			trust committed,
			on the society, (vi) quantum
			of punishment
			prescribed, (vii) what
			is the
			actual amount
			used or 
			taken away
			 or misappropriated by
			the accused
			personally or
			by his
			close relatives or
			friends,(viii) if
			the accused,
			prima facie, can
			 be said 
			to be 
			involved in
			 the conspiracy
			 in committing such
			 breach of
			 trust. On
			all these
			counts, according to
			prosecution, the
			applicant accused
			 is the main
			 person and
			 mastermind behind
			 the entire
			Scam of about
			 250 Crores
			 of rupees
			 and violator
			 of RBI
			Guidelines and statutory
			 provisions. So,
			intention or mens
			ria from
			the conduct
			by itself
			can be 
			inferred and
			prosecution may not
			 have to
			lead detailed
			evidence in this
			regard. In
			such cases,
			strength of
			the prosecution
			is in the
			 documentary evidence
			 and prosecution
			 has collected en-number
			of documents
			in support
			of the 
			case placed against
			the present
			applicant and,
			therefore only,
			number of further
			statements of
			the very
			complainant have
			been recorded by
			the Investigating
			Agency. 7.
			 	Ld. counsel
			appearing for
			 the applicant
			 have developed various
			 points while
			requesting the
			court to exercise
			discretion in
			favour of
			the present
			 applicant and if
			 they are
			 mentioned in
			 nutshell, they
			can be enumerated
			in the
			following : By various
						orders of the
						Court, the
						 applicant is
						 granted temporary
						bail and at
						 present he
						 is enjoying
						 liberty granted temporarily,
						of course
						 in SAL
						 Hospital and that
						 too under
						Surveillance and
						it will
						be risky to
						keep the
						 applicant accused
						 either in
						jail or in
						a jail
						ward of
						the hospital. (iv)
							Age of
						 the accused
						 is very
						old and
						he is
						aged about more
						 than 70
						years and
						 so considering
						deteriorated condition of
						his health,
						applicant should be
						considered as
						a person
						"old and
						infirm" and in
						this fact
						situation, should
						be viewed
						 in light of
						special provisions
						made under Sec.437 of
						CrPC. (v)
							That applicant
						accused himself
						has not
						taken any
						personal advantage and
						it is
						not the
						 case till
						the date of
						prosecution that
						a particular
						sum has been
						 misappropriated by
						 him or
						 amounts were
						transferred to his
						 account, nor
						 he is
						 a defaulter. (vi)
							The large
						 sum of
						money by
						way of
						deposit of
						the family of
						 the accused
						 is with
						 the Bank. Liability of his
						 son Kaushikbhai
						 was also
						of limited amount
						and he
						is ready
						to see
						that the
						amount payable by
						 his son
						Kaushikbhai is
						paid regularly. It
						is relevant
						to note
						that at
						 this stage initially
						 bail plea
						of Kaushikbhai
						Patel, S/o the
						present applicant
						was turned
						down by
						this Court and
						even the
						Apex Court
						 had rejected
						 his bail plea
						on merits. However, by
						detailed order
						passed by this
						 Court while
						 dealing with
						 Cri.Misc. Application
						 No. 5881/2003
						(Coram:Akshay Mehta, J),
						this Court
						has enlarged
						 Shri Kaushik
						Patel on bail
						and one
						of the
						ground for
						enlarging him on
						 bail is
						 that he
						can attend
						his failing
						father i.e. present
						 applicant who
						 is taking
						treatment in a
						Hospital in
						the city
						of Ahmedabad. So, it is
						 submitted that
						if the
						application of
						the present applicant
						 is rejected,
						 then indirectly his
						 only son
						Kaushikbhai Patel
						would not be
						able to
						 attend his
						 ailing father
						 and important purpose
						would frustrate. (vii)
							It has
						been further
						submitted that
						 daughter of
						the present applicant
						 who is
						 attending the
						present applicant when
						his son
						Kaushikbhai was
						in judicial custody,
						has been
						declared a
						patient of
						cancer. (viii)
						It is 
						a matter
						of fact
						that Chairman
						& Board
						of Directors in
						the number
						of Co.Op. Banks, have
						been found involved
						in various
						scams of
						crores of 
						rupees like the
						 same in
						Madhavpura Mercentile
						Co.Op. Bank Ltd.,
						Chairman &
						 Director of
						 such Banks have
						 been enlarged
						 on bail
						by different
						Benches of this
						 Court and
						 so, the
						 present petitioner should
						 also be
						 treated at
						par with such
						accused persons. 8. partners Govindbhai- Brother in law. Gurukrupa
				Chemicals
			
			 
				 

MH
			
			 
				 10.00
			
			 
				 

09.66
			
			 
				 

One of the
				partners Navin Girdharlal-Cousin Brother -do- HL
			
			 
				 

15.00
			
			 
				 

17.04
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Tribhovn J. Patel
			
			 
				 

OD
			
			 
				 

04.90
			
			 
				 

04.78
				approx. Brother-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Karamvir
				Sankalchand (C.K. Buchastor Complex Co.Op.Society Ltd. AB
			
			 
				 

10.00
			
			 
				 

07.52 -do- AB
			
			 
				 

435.00
			
			 
				 

391.00
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Visnagar
				Taluka Sahakari Kharid Vechan Sangh
			
			 
				 

AB
			
			 
				 

500.00
			
			 
				 

600.00
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
		 
			 
				 

S.K.
				Builders
			
			 
				 

HL
			
			 
				 

62.00
			
			 
				 

44.92
			
			 
				 

Son-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

S.K.
				Distributors
			
			 
				 

HP
			
			 
				 

25.00
			
			 
				 

18.88
			
			 
				 

Son-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

S.K. Traders
			
			 
				 

IH
			
			 
				 

05.00
			
			 
				 

03.09
			
			 
				 

Son-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Machinery
				Stores Trade
			
			 
				 

IH
			
			 
				 

25.00
			
			 
				 

01.59
			
			 
				 

Son-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Ashok
				P.Patel
			
			 
				 

VL
			
			 
				 

05.75
			
			 
				 

03.68
			
			 
				 

Son-in-law
			
		
		 
			 
				 

B.Patel
				Infrastructures P.Ltd. HPL & 
				BD
			
			 
				 

63.07
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Pioneer
				Irrigations Pvt.Ltd. BD
			
			 
				 

68.81
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
		 
			 
				 

Kaushikbhai
				B.Patel
			
			 
				 

VHP
			
			 
				 

01.46
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
			 
				 

 

				
			
		
	

 

 

 Mr.Oza has further submitted that the investigation of other offences registered against the applicant is going on. Mr. Oza further submits that the prosecution apprehends that order of bail will put the applicant in advantageous position and he would be able to influence witnesses or tamper with documentary evidence because large number of documents are yet to be recovered by the Investigating Agency from other Institutions and Co.Op.Societies where the present applicant is in controlling position. He has further submitted that if tampered document is tendered to the police, then it may seriously prejudice the case of the prosecution. Number of accused persons are absconding. Some of staff members who were appointed by the present applicant are important witnesses who are to be examined by the prosecution and enlargement on bail of the present applicant would affect the morale of these witnesses and it may give an opportunity to the present applicant to emotionally blackmail those witnesses. At least, till the investigation in all the cases registered against the present applicant is not concluded, this Court should not enlarge the present applicant accused on bail. XXX		XXX		XXX		XXX 15. 	I have considered the above decisions on facts and other circumstances emerging from the cited decisions and relevant paras referred to by ld. PP Mr. Oza. (i)
 		Considering the
 decision in
 the case 
of Shivnarayan Laxminarayan
Joshi (supra),
this Court is
 of the view
that the
above-cited decision
would not
help the
prosecution. It propounds
general principles
that when Court
should be
called upon 
to exercise 
discretionary jurisdiction under Sec.439 of
CrPC. The
present case,
on facts, falls
under a
category where
the Court is
supposed to respond
to the
arguments advanced
in the
background of the
provisions of Sec.437 of
CrPC because
the ld. City
Sessions Judge has
refused to
exercise discretion
 under the aforesaid
 provisions. It
has been
observed by
the Apex Court
in para-17 as
under:- (ii) 	The next decision i.e. The State (Through Deputy Commissioner of Police, Special Branch, Delhi) v/s Jaspal Singh Gill (supra), talks about the larger interest of the State and public when the bail plea is pressed into service by an accused involved in such or similar offences. The Apex Court has observed in para-9 as under:- So, this decision would not help the prosecution. (iv) Next decision on which ld. PP Mr. Oza placed reliance is in the case of Mansab Ali v/s Irsan & Anr. (supra) wherein the Apex Court has observed that the provisions of CrPC confer a discretionary jurisdiction on criminal courts to grant bail to accused pending trials or in appeal against convictions. Since the jurisdiction is discretionary, it requires to be exercised with great care and caution and by balancing valuable right of liberty of an individual and he interest of society in general in granting or refusing the bail. As per the Apex Court, the Courts exercising powers under this section, are required to indicate, may be very briefly, the reasons for grant or refusal of bail. Jurisdiction has not to be exercised in casual and cavalier fashion. While disapproving the judgment of the High Court, the Apex Court undertook the exercise of going through the police papers and the evidence so far recorded by the trial Court to consider the prayer of the complainant for cancellation of bail. The observations of the Apex Court in the cited decision were that the trial Court was supposed to consider relevant factors like nature of accusation, character, behaviour, antecedents and standing of the accused. This decision would not help the prosecution squarely, but the ratio can be considered that before exercising discretion, this Court is supposed to keep balance between the freedom of an individual and interest of the society in general. (v) The next decision relied upon by ld. PP Mr. Oza is in the case of Balvantji Halaji Palvi (Darbar) v/s State of Gujarat (supra), wherein this Court has observed as under:- The facts are not identical. Status of the accused, his role in the crime, his responsibility towards investors and depositors of the Bank and the impact of the criminal conduct of the accused in the total management, push the case of the applicant into a separate category. It is true that all the Directors are equal and Chairman may be the first amongst the equals. However, looking to the bye-laws and other statutory provisions, each one is assigned a separate role including the privilege to put his casting vote. It is true that different benches of this Court have enlarged Managing Directors or Chairmen of other Co.Op. Banks found involved in the similar scams on stringent conditions and some of them have been asked to deposit or pay a particular sum to the Bank as one of the conditions of enlarging them on bail. In the present case also, Mr. Nanavaty has submitted that present applicant though is not responsible to pay any amount as he has not borrowed any amount or has taken any advantage, he can deposit any amount which this Court may direct him to deposit between Rs.19 Lakhs to 93 Lakhas. However, subsequently it has been clarified by ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah that this submission has been made on behalf of the applicant before the Court because son of the present applicant has taken financial advantage of the management of the applicant and real brother of the present applicant was also owing some financial liabilities. As per the case of the prosecution, the applicant has put his real brother and son to financial advantageous position and both of them were defaulters on the day on which the complaint was filed. But thereafter, real brother of the present applicant was arrested by the police and while in custody, brother of the applicant committed suicide. Till 15.04.2004, this fact was not brought to the notice of the Court, but this Court has no reason to disbelieve the statement of ld. Counsel Saurin Shah. So, it is submitted by the applicant accused may be relieved from obligation created because of the statement made before the Court and while doing this favour, this Court may also consider that the son of the applicant now has been enlarged on bail on certain conditions and he is complying with the condition of depositing Rs.10 Lakh per month to the Bank. However, Mr. Shah has clarified that the applicant may be asked to deposit any reasonable amount in the High Court as one of the conditions that may be determined by the Court. XXX		XXX		XXX		XXX 17. 	The ratio of the decision of the Jharkhand High Court in the case of Lalu Prasad Yadav (supra) would not also squarely apply and that decision has persuasive value. Jharkhand High Court, in the cited decision has observed that:- 18.		Mr. Saurin Shah, ld. counsel appearing for the applicant accused has placed reliance on the following decisions:- 19. 		It is true that the petitioner is a leading citizen and was active in administration of the bank since 1982 and was a Minister in the year 1993 & 1994 for State of Gujarat in Co.Operation & Panchayat Department and bank deposits rose from Rs.50 Crores to approximately more than Rs.600 Crores between 1996 & 2000 and the Bank was a Scheduled Bank. State of Gujarat has faced disaster devastating entire part of the State of Gujarat including city of Ahmedabad on account of earthquake occurred on 26.1.2001 and the complainant Bank was one of the co-operative bank who had taken measures in helping borrowers and recovery of the amount was not made effective for a period of 2 years and on several occasions, relaxations also have been given as per the directions issued by RBI. One of the largest Co.Op.Bank of Gujarat i.e. Madhavpura Mercentile Co.Op.Bank Ltd. failed in clearing debt on 13.3.2001 and, therefore, there was a huge rush of the depositors to all other co-operative banks including the bank led by the present applicant and prosecution even has not disputed one fact alleged By Mr.. P.R.Nanavati, ld. counsel appearing for the applicant that about Rs.175 to Rs.200 Crores were paid to the depositors on request of withdrawal between 13.3.2001 and 16.3.2001 i.e. within four days and the officers of the Bank have cooperated RBI machineries and have responded practically all calls made between March 2001 and June 2001. However, it will be difficult to accept that the Bank is put to trouble only on the ground of political rivalry between the applicant and a sitting MLA Mr.Prahlad Patel and the Bank has been made victim by publishing misleading advertisements issued in local news paper. Financial crisis that has cropped up in the month of June & July 2001 destroyed the backbone of the bank. But these facts probably may not help the present applicant on merits because the prosecution is because of the financial irregularities committed collectively and under the leadership of the present applicant, is the main allegation. I would like to refer some of the observations of the Apex Court in the case of Ram Narain Poply v/s CBI , AIR 2003 SC 2748. In this cited decision, the Apex Court was dealing with the case of scam in nationalised bank's money utilised by Harshad Mehta and his group. Observations made in paras 363, 381, 382 and 383 would be relevant for the purpose of the present decision because present application was trustee of the amount of the bank headed by him. XXX		XXX		XXX		XXX 20.		This Court in the case of Mohammed Ali Pirbhai Dodhia v/s State of Gujarat , 2003(3) GLR 2267, considered regular bail application of the members of Board of Directors of Co.Op.Bank, has observed in paras 7 & 9 of the decision as under:- 21.		Having considered number of other decisions placed before the Court by ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah and ld. PP Mr. Oza including the decision in the case of Nur Ahemmad Abdulkadher Surti and Ors. v/s State of Gujarat while dealiang with Cri.Misc. Application No. 7741/2003 to 7753/2003 (group matters) and in the case of son of the present applicant i.e. Kaushikbhai Patel (viz.two decisions (i) first decision refusing bail plea dated 13.5.2003, and (ii) subsequent decision accepting the bail plea on changed circumstances dated 26.12.2003) and the order passed in the case of Ishwarbhai Tribhovandas Patel while dealing with Cri.Misc.Application No.1675/2003 dated 13.5.2003 (Coram: Akshay Mehta, J), it would not be either proper or justified to reject the bail plea absolutely. This Court is of the view that present applicant does not deserve discretionary relief of regular bail irrespective of his age and health condition especially when number of criminal complaints are still under investigation, but on the ground of advanced age, temporary bail can be granted for a limited period on certain stringent conditions as submitted when ld. counsel Mr. Saurin Shah was brushing his final arguments to accept the bail plea on the strength of the certificate issued by Dr. Apurva Madia dated 4.4.2004. I would like to quote relevant part of the said certificate:- 22.		Ld. PP Mr. Oza confirms that the certificate issued is genuine and it is opined by Investigating Officer who is in charge of the investigation at present that the applicant is undergoing treatment and he may have to undergo prolonged treatment. According to Mr.Shah, health condition of the present applicant does not show any sign of improvement and, therefore, if the Court is not inclined to enlarge the applicant on regular bail, then he can be granted temporary bail of some longer period on any condition that the Court may deem just and proper and he may be asked to shift to his residential house i.e. 1, Utsav Bungalow, Nr.Drive-in Cinema in the city of Ahmedabad. It is pointed out by Mr.Shah that residential house of the applicant is opposite to SAL Hospital where the applicant is taking treatment at present and applicant is able to arrange for para-medical personnel and can get assistance and renown physician and doctor in couple of minutes in case of necessity or he can be shifted to SAL Hospital within very short notice. While developing his arguments, Mr. Shah has placed reliance on one decision in the case of State of Maharashtra v/s Captain Buddhikota Subba Rao , AIR 1989 SC 2292 and has taken me through relevant part of the decision. In this decision, the Apex Court allowed the appeal and set aside the impugned order dated 18.6.1989 granting bail to the respondent accused whereby the accused was granted bail for a period of 2 months on the terms and conditions mentioned in the order. This order is turned down by the cited decision only to maintain judicial discipline and to fortify the observations made by the Apex Court in para-5 of the judgment in the case of Sahejjad Hussain Khan v/s Istiaque Hussain Khan, AIR 1987 SC 1613. The Apex Court found that for the reasons mentioned in the said decision, There was no justification for passing the impugned order in absence of substantial change in the facts situation. The impugned order before Supreme Court was found an order "bit out of ordinary", but the fact remains that the appellant for a limited period was once granted bail by Bombay High Court on conditions catalogued in the order permitting him to be kept in virtually under house arrest. So, all the arguments advanced before the Court and the fact that some similarly situated custodians and managers of the bank have been enlarged on bail by this Court by various other Benches, the applicant can be enlarged on bail for a temporary period. He may not be put virtually under house arrest, but conditions appropriate can be imposed to take care of certain situation including the apprehensions expressed by ld.PP Mr.Oza. XXX		XXX		XXX		XXX 24. 	... So, when the Court is called upon to exercise discretionary jurisdiction, then objectively should record a conclusion that in a given case, the Court is not inclined to grant bail because the same would cause injustice indirectly to the society. In another decision in the case of Ashok Dhhingara v/s NCP of Delhi, reported in AIR 2000 SC P.3537 wherein a Japanees citizen was cheated and defrauded by the Indian citizen, the Apex Court observed that the accused does not deserve bail, however, as the accused was on bail, the order of bail was not disturbed. Relevant observations made therein by the Apex Court are relevant for our purpose.?? (emphasis applied for present
order) 

 

 

 
	 

	This Court while dealing with
	aforesaid petition has answered the question as to whether the
	accused whose regular bail application has been rejected, can be
	granted a temporary bail or the bail for a fixed period and this
	Court has observed that on this point there are conflicting views of
	different High Courts and has referred to the decision in the case
	of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Atique Ahmed , reported in 2003
	AIR SCW 2673. The view of the Apex Court is that the accused
	whose regular bail application has been turned down on merit, cannot
	be granted temporary bail even on health ground. So this Court was
	not at all agreeable with the submission that the accused deserves
	regular bail and now Mr.A.D. Shah, learned senior counsel appearing
	for the petitioner, has placed the following main grounds before
	this Court which are not found favourable to the petitioner by this
	Court: In earlier decision, it is
	observed that it is true that one of the main conspirators is
	Babulal Shivlal Shah, who is at present on temporary bail. It is
	also true that one witness has mainly involved the said accused
	Babulal Shah who according to prosecution was acting as an
	inter-mediator in passing the kick back money to the management, has
	not named/involved the present petitioner as an accused. However,
	more than one witnesses i.e. Prahladbhai Karsanbhai, Shaileshkumar
	Kantilal, Rameshchandra Fulshankar Mehta, etc. have impeached the
	present petitioner, including Jasvant R. Patel, Ex-Manager of the
	Bank. It is rightly argued that the Apex Court in one of the cases
	has observed that economic offences ransacking financial stability
	of middle class or lower class depositors or investors, are more
	serious and grave. This Court is of the view that the case of the
	present petitioner falls in the category where he should not be
	granted bail on any ground. The present petitioner should be asked
	to face the trial as an undertial because the apprehension that he
	may influence even the witnesses who are required to be examined
	during trial were in service of the Bank and under obligation o the
	present petitioner or who can be pursued because of the earlier
	relations of such witnesses with the Bank and the management and
	when some of them are still on pay-roll of the Bank under
	administration, gets strengthen. It is also relevant fact that some
	of the accused are still absconding or the police is not able to
	arrest them for their involvement in the offence. When it is
	stated by the State that on each sensitive movement earlier, the
	Jail Authorities had provided treatment to the petitioner from the
	bes available doctors and cardiologist and the petitioner was kept
	in Medical Ward specially maintained by the State in Sabarmati
	Central Prison, then there was no need to extend the temporary bail
	on the ground of health also because undisputedly, the petitioner
	now has to remain under conservative treatment and the scope of
	surgery by experts is practically nil. It is known fact to the
	society at large that a person taking conservative treatment is
	available to survive for several years who has undergone by-pass
	surgery in past. The petitioner, as observed earlier, once was the
	Minister in the State of Gujarat, having degree in Law and knowledge
	of working of a Co-operative Bank, cannot plead innocence or
	ignorance qua the huge irregularities which have taken place in the
	Visnagar Co-operative Bank Ltd. The substantial amount of donation
	given to the charitable institutions is still lying in the
	respective bank account or some of the close relatives of the
	petitioner are likely to lose their deposits and the fact that the
	petitioner has not taken any loan for himself or for his family,
	etc. are the weak arguments. If these arguments are accepted for
	granting bail liberally on the ground of health or advanced age,
	then I am afraid the people of senior age in the management of a
	financial institution may carve out methodical system under a
	conspiracy to siphon off large sum by not drawing single pai for
	himself and asking the office persons to keep some amount from the
	amount siphoned off, with the Bank as deposit or by keeping some
	amount as deposit, systematically huge amount can be siphoned off in
	the names of persons who have kept some deposits. So I am not
	attracted with this submission also which is made by Mr.A.D. Shah. 
	Similar submissions were made before this Court on earlier occasion
	when application for regular bail was rejected on 22nd
	April, 2004. It is true that one Special Leave
	Petition was preferred against the order passed by this Court on
	09th February, 2005 but this Court at the relevant point
	of time was dealing with extension of bail for a fixed period
	granted by the earlier Court vide order dated 22nd April,
	2004. Because of strong resistance by the State and detailed
	submissions which were made, a speaking order was passed on 09th
	February, 2005. So the order dated 22nd April, 2004 was
	in the background and in the mind of Court. It is not possible for
	this Court to infer as to whether while preferring Special Leave
	Petition by the petitioner-accused against the order dated 09th
	February, 2005, earlier order dated 22nd April, 2004,
	attached for kind perusal of the Apex Court as annexure or not. It
	is neither possible nor necessary to comment upon the same but at
	least this Court can say that earlier rejection of the application
	vide order dated 22nd April, 2004, keeping a small window
	open by putting Condition ?SO??, was a rejection of regular bail
	plea on merit discussing all grounds but as the petitioner is of
	advanced age and had taken treatment of a particular nature, keeping
	apprehension of certain serious turn in the health as discussed
	earlier, the said window was kept. It appears that by magnifying
	that Condition ?SO?? referred to hereinabove, the petitioner has
	attempted to revive all the pleas which were placed before this
	Court, including the scope of protraction of trial on account of
	complicated investigation and large number of witnesses. In view of above discussion and
	observations, the regular bail application of the present petitioner
	is hereby dismissed. The petitioner-accused needs to surrender
	himself before the Jail Authorities forthwith. The Apex Court had
	granted time to surrender to the petitioner-accused of a fixed
	period. However, without entering into the technicalities and
	directing the petitioner to approach the Apex Court for getting the
	time extended to surrender, this Court has extended the period of
	time to surrender to avoid frustration in the interest of justice. 
	But now when the present bail petition is ordered to be dismissed,
	no such extension is granted. The petitioner-accused now shall
	surrender himself before the concerned Jail Authorities within a
	period of 10 (ten) days from today, failing which the competent
	Court shall take appropriate steps to secure his presence. Notice is
	discharged. (C.K.
Buch, J)
 

 

 

Aakar Top