> 

 

Title : Discussion on Motion regarding Report of Committee to inquire into the allegations of improper conduct on the part of some members. THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE ( SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE ): I beg to move: MR. SPEAKER : Motion moved : SHRI HARIN PATHAK ( AHMEDABAD ): You have to see the vice versa of technology. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : You did not have any video cameras. You did not have any audio of this type. You did not have any of that. Therefore, do not apply that principle. If somebody heard something in 1951 and somebody said ‘I never did it’ he should have been given a chance. But here what is the reality? It is instant television; it is instant evidence. It is sequential. We have complete faith in our Committee which actually saw the entire sequence of the unedited tapes, including Mr. Malhtora.… (Interruptions) श्री हरिन पाठक : गोविन्दा जी को निकालिये, गोविन्दा जी के खिलाफ आज एफ.आई.आर. दर्ज हुई है।…( व्यवधान) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : I did not say that. Sir, what he is saying is not correct. Please allow me. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I heard you. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM ): The Committee gave its report. You cannot add to the report. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR ( BANGALORE SOUTH ): You should allow him to speak. You have mentioned his name. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय  वर्मा जी, आप स्थान ग्रहण कीजिए। श्री रतिलाल कालीदास वर्मा पूरे हाउस में यहां खड़े रहकर आपने उस जज को बचाने के लिए स्पीच दी थी* … 

__________________________________________________________________ 

*Expunged as ordered by the Chair. 14.00 hrs. 

SHRI KAPIL SIBAL Obviously, the hon. Member never heard the first sentence that I said in that case. May I repeat it for your information? When I started that proceedings, I said "If you think that I stand here today on behalf of a judge who is corrupt, then I will not like to plead his case." That was the first sentence. I till date believe that he was not corrupt. … (Interruptions) That is not an issue. That is why, I say … (Interruptions) SHRI HARIN PATHAK : We want Mr. Kapil Sibal to give to the Members who really … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :हरिन पाठक जी आप एक सम्मानित सदस्य हैं, आप बैठ जाइए। ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seats. श्री मोहन सिंह आप यह राय दे रहे हैं कि वे करप्ट हैं।…( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : मैं कोई राय नहीं दे रहा हूं, मैं तो वही कह रहा हूं, जो मैंने अपनी आंखों से टीवी पर देखा और जिस कमेटी ने यह तय किया कि वह सही है, हम उस कमेटी की बात मानते हैं। इसमें कोई दो राय नहीं है, हमारे पास कोई और तरीका नहीं है। यह मानते हुए हम उन सदस्यों को कैसे कहें कि वे हाउस में रह सकते हैं…( व्यवधान) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा आप कमेटी की बात पर मत जाइए…( व्यवधान) श्री मोहन सिंह क्या आडियो, विडीयो टेप को सुप्रीम कोर्ट में या हाईकोर्ट में ऐविडेंस माना जाता है…( व्यवधान) श्री इलियास आज़मी मैं एक बात जानना चाहता हूं, क्या कोर्ट में टेप को एविडेंस माना जाता है…( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Uday Singh, please take your seat. Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions)* 

* Not Recorded. प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : महोदय, इन्होंने यह मेंशन किया है कि सारा टेप हमने सही पाया है, लेकिन मेरा कहना है कि यह गलत है। सभी मैम्बर का कहना है कि टेप डॉक्टर्ड है, यह गलत है, उसकी जांच होनी चाहिए।…( व्यवधान) श्री कपिल सिब्बल : आपने क्या कहा, आपने यह भी लिखा कि यह सही नहीं है। PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA :  I said that Rules of Procedure must be followed. They should be given a chance to defend themselves. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Sir, let me read the Note of Dissent of Prof. Vijay Kumar Malhotra. He does not say in his Note of Dissent that he believes that the tapes are doctored. … (Interruptions) It does not say. … (Interruptions) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : फाइंडिंग की बात तब होती, जब उसकी जांच हो। मैंने कहा कि उसकी जांच होनी चाहिए, उनको अपनी बात कहने का मौका दिया जाए। उनको डिफेन्ड करने का मौका दिया जाए। Do not put words into my mouth. … (Interruptions) SHRI HARIN PATHAK : He cannot give findings. He has given a suggestion that this should be sent to the experts. … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Without proper procedure being adopted. … (Interruptions) What is the Procedure? They should have a right to cross-examine, argument, defence etc. … (Interruptions) उन्होंने कहा कि यह टेप डॉक्टर्ड है। हमने कहा कि इसकी जांच होनी चाहिए, इसका पता लगाया जाना चाहिए। लेकिन हम उनको मौका ही न दें, उसकी जांच ही न करें। आप यह कह रहे हैं कि सब ने मान लिया है कि टेप सही है।…( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : With you permission, Sir, may I speak now? MR. CHAIRMAN: Yes. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Sir, as I said in the beginning, the question here is not that what is stated on the tape is evidence or not. That is not the question. The question here is that a Committee of this House was constituted. That Committee saw the tapes, both the edited and the unedited versions. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Tripathi, please take your seat. Nothing will go on record except the speech of Shri Kapil Sibal. (Interruptions)* 

श्री कपिल सिब्बल : हां, मानते हैं। अगर आप सवाल का जवाब सुनना चाहते हैं, अगर आप केस का नाम भी जानना चाहते हैं, तो वह भी मैं आपको बता दूंगा।…( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please sit down. I am not allowing you. Nothing will go on record except the speech of Shri Kapil Sibal. (Interruptions)* 

  

SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I wish you were to say that outside this House.  यहां तो आप कह सकते हैं। …( व्यवधान)  वकीलों के खिलाफ कुछ भी कह सकते हैं और अपने लोगों को बचाने के लिए आप कुछ भी कर सकते हैं। …( व्यवधान)   यह भी हम जानते हैं कि सच को आप गलत कहेंगे। आपने जो अपनी आंखों से देखा, उसे आप गलत कहेंगे, यह भी हम जानते हैं। …( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN : Shri Sibal, please address the Chair. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Nothing will go on record except the speech of Shri Sibal. (Interruptions)* 

MR. CHAIRMAN: Please address the Chair. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Please ask them to sit down. … (Interruptions) Please protect me. Otherwise, I cannot continue my speech. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :  उनकी कोई बात रिकार्ड में नहीं जा रही है इसलिए आप अपना भाषण जारी रखिये। ...( व्यवधान) _______________________________________________________________ 

*Not Recorded. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Sir, an hon. Member of this House referred to Article 21 of the Constitution and said that there is a right under Article 21 to life and liberty and therefore, the decision to pass  this Motion will impact on that right. In fact, there is no question of either life or liberty involved here. Article 21 has, no application in this case. What is in issue is whether a Member of Parliament, who is a Member of this House, has conducted himself in a manner which is unbecoming.  The fact that he is removed from the membership of this House has nothing to do with life and liberty. In fact, he is entitled, if he so wishes, to go to a court of law to challenge it and vindicate his rights. At the moment what the House is deciding is that prima facie we believe and accept the findings of the Committee that what we saw on television represents the truth and we do not want such a person to be a Member of this House. What is wrong with that decision? You do not need a whole trial. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Shri Iliyas Azmi, please take your seat. (Interruptions)* 

सभापति महोदय :    इलियाज आजमी जी, आपकी कोई बात रिकार्ड में नहीं जा रही है इसलिए आप बैठ जाइये। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : This is not a judicial proceeding. We are not deciding here on the merits of the case; we are only deciding a very limited issue. Do you want the people of this country not to believe what they saw on tape, and to accept the views of a section of this House and a couple of political parties who are saying that we will not accept what we saw? Do you want the country to believe that? … (Interruptions) Please understand what you are doing. You are belying the hopes of all those who established parliamentary democracy in this country. You are belying the hopes of all those who have trusted you. If you vote in a particular way today, it will be recorded in the history that you are for corruption. … (Interruptions) that you are for such conduct. … (Interruptions) __________________________________________________________________ 

*Not recorded. PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Sir, this is highly objectionable. … (Interruptions) You are for corruption. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : That is my opinion. … (Interruptions) When you vote, we will see. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :   जब आपके सदस्य बोलेंगे तब आप अपनी बात रखिये। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : You are for corruption. Otherwise you would not take such a stand. … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : You are for corruption. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :  अनंत कुमार जी, आप तो पुराने सदस्य हैं। ...( व्यवधान) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : सभापति महोदय, मंत्री जी ऐसे बोल रहे है जैसे कोर्ट में बोल रहे हैं। …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  आप अपना स्थान ग्रहण कीजिए। ...( व्यवधान) MR. CHAIRMAN: You all take your seats. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seats. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : You are for it. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : He cannot impute motives to our voting rights. … (Interruptions) It is our right to vote. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : As a political party, you stand for corruption. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :   अगर कोई अनपार्लियामैंट शब्द है तो उसे देख लिया जायेगा। आप बैठ जाइये। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  अगर कोई असंगत बात होगी तो उसे देख लिया जायेगा। ...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  हमने नियमन दे दिया है इसलिए आप बैठ जाइये। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : He cannot impute motives to our voting rights. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please take your seats. … (Interruptions) श्री अनंत कुमार : सभापति महोदय, इन्हें यह शब्द वापस लेना चाहिए। यह क्या बात 

है ? …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  हमने नियमन दे दिया है। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : Sir, we will not allow. … (Interruptions) It is our right to vote. We are also Members of this House. … (Interruptions[reporter34] ) They are also hon. Members, and it is their right to vote. … (Interruptions) Who is he to refute it? … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : It is my opinion.… (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :  हमने देख लिया है। कोई असंगत बात होगी तो उसे देख लिया जाएगा। हमने नियमन दे दिया है। हमने बोल दिया है कि कोई असंगत शब्द होगा तो उसे देख लिया जाएगा। …( व्यवधान) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : ऐसे कैसे होगा ? …( व्यवधान)  क्या यह कोई तरीका है यहां पर बात करने का क जो ऐसा वोट देगा, वह गलत काम करेगा ?…( व्यवधान) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : Are you the only angel here? … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय :आसन को तो नियमन करने दें। हम अपना नियमन दे रहे हैं। आप कृपया बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Sir, he is not only speaking politics, but he is speaking … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : मल्होत्रा जी, अपने सदस्यों को बिठाइए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : Sir, he cannot refute our voting rights. Therefore, he should withdraw it. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : जो कुछ भी असंगत बात होगी, माननीय अध्यक्ष, लोक सभा उसे देखेंगे। श्री अशोक प्रधान ( खुर्जा ) : सभापति जी, इससे हमारे पदाधिकारों पर प्रश्न-चिन्ह लग रहा है।... ( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  हमने नियमन दे दिया है कि यदि कोई असंगत बात होगी तो प्रोसीडिंग्स में नहीं जाएगी। अनंत कुमार जी, आप सुनिए। आप चेयर को कम्पेल नहीं कर सकते। …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :यदि कोई असंगत बात होगी तो प्रोसीडिंग्स में नहीं जाएगी। हमने नियमन दे दिया है। सिब्बल जी, आप अपना जारी रखिए। Please take your seat. …( व्यवधान) SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA ( PANSKURA ): Sir, can I make a submission? Let the House maintain a standard of dignity during this discussion. Let the House maintain … (Interruptions) श्री गुरुदास दासगुप्त : मैं आपको नहीं बोल रहा हूं। सभापति महोदय :  गुरुदास जी, आप अपने समय में बोलिएगा। Please take your seat. …( व्यवधान) SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA : Sir, I am only requesting you to ensure that the hon. Members in the House maintain the standard of dignity during this discussion. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I entirely agree with you. … (Interruptions) Sir, what is really sad today is that there is an impression going around in our country that the political class as a whole is not living up to the standards, which were envisaged by our forefathers. Nobody can deny this fact. … (Interruptions) SHRI UDAY SINGH ( PURNEA ): Is it the standard for TV reporters to come into our houses to carry out sting operations? … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : How will I answer if you do not let me speak? … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN: Please, no cross-talks in the House. … (Interruptions[ak35] ) 

SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : At large, this is the impression of the people of this country. We have witnessed scandal after scandal. This case has come to light, but I  personally believe -- it is my personal opinion and it may not be shared -- that 9/10th of such acts never come to light. This is only the tip of the iceberg. … (Interruptions) SHRI UDAY SINGH : It is right. We all agree with this point. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : This is precisely the point. Therefore, the impression of the public at large in this country is that the political class, when it comes to protecting their own ilk, they never rise  to the occasion. … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : How can you tell so? There is nothing like it. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : This is the reality. They always try and defend their own class. Therefore, people have to rush to a court of law, and the court of law inevitably directs prosecution. The court of law directs trial to take place. Why is it so? It is because the belief is that when incriminating evidence comes in the public domain, then the political class -- as a class -- does not take note of it. Why is it so? It is because they want to defend themselves. … (Interruptions) If this is the impression in our country, then any such act, by us, to dilute the action -- that has been proposed by this particular Motion -- will be in the same direction.  That again the political class has risen to defend their own ilk. This is despite the fact that there is incriminating evidence, which is part of the public domain. … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Should we hang them all? … (Interruptions) श्री अवतार सिंह भडाना बैठ जाओ, क्या बात कर रहे हो। …( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :भडाना जी, आप सदन में क्या बोल रहे हैं, आप अपना स्थान ग्रहण कीजिए। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Have I said anything that does not justify?… (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : Sir, I would ask the hon. Minister to withdraw this. … (Interruptions) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : महोदय, यदि माननीय सदस्य को अपनी बात रखनी है तो रखें, बोलने का यह कौन सा तरीका है?…( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदय :  भडाना जी की कोई बात प्रोसीडिंग में नहीं जाएगी। ...( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : So, merely because a person loses his membership of this House in pursuance of a Motion getting passed here does not mean that it is the end of his life. … (Interruptions)It is not that anybody is sending him to the Star Chamber. Nobody is sending him to the Star Chamber. … (Interruptions). Nobody has hanged them. … (Interruptions) श्री बाबू लाल मरांडी यह उससे भी ज्यादा है।…( व्यवधान) THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM ): Please listen to the viewpoints expressed here by the hon. Minister. Please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Sir, one files nomination papers on the basis of certain disclosures, and gets elected. The constituents who elect repose a certain confidence in you, and those constituents certainly do not expect their Members of Parliament should start asking money for putting questions. They certainly do not expect it. If one has lost that trust and if there is some incriminating evidence in front of you, then I do believe that the hon. Members without allowing this Motion to be passed should themselves come and say that I resign and will take steps to vindicate my rights. The Members need not allow this Motion to be passed. They can straightaway come up and say that I resign because somebody has accused me of this, and this is a very serious allegation. Somebody has shown a video footage of me or somebody has shown me audiotapes, and people in this country believe that it is me. Though is not me, yet consistent with the dignity of the Members of this House I resign my position, and I will vindicate my rights in a the court of law, that is, outside this House. What prevents him from doing it? Nothing prevents him from doing it. He is not hanged, and he does not lose his life and liberty. He can carry on with his profession. He is not sent to jail. … (Interruptions) He is not subjected to any capital punishment. It is only a membership of this House. The membership of this House is given on the basis of certain privileges that he has, and one of the privileges is that he has a right to ask questions.Prima facie, these people have abused that privilege by taking money for asking questions. Therefore, the House feels that they should no longer be Members, and that is all. … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Is that all? … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Who has hanged them? Who has sent them to jail? … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : You are trying to hang them without hearing their viewpoint. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL: No, that is the point. Therefore, the hon. Members believe that the only issue is that there should be a full-fledged trial, and that is the point that I am making. What kind of trial should be held, and the extent of the principle of natural justice to be applied and right to cross-examination to be granted that all depends on the nature of the evidence. If somebody had made an oral allegation and a Committee had said that : “throw him out of the House”, then I would be standing with you to say that : “No, we should give them a chance.” Therefore, it all depends on the nature of evidence. Who can dispute what we saw? … (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : They have disputed it. … (Interruptions) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Who can dispute it? It is not they. … (Interruptions) You are disputing it, and not them. SHRI P. CHIDAMBARAM : Are you disputing it? SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : This is the question. The test in law … (Interruptions) May I with great humility and greatest respect to the Members of this House say, that the test in law is, a subjective opinion based on objective criteria. This is the test of law. … (Interruptions)  Of course, you will not see it because it is very difficult for you to be impressed after being faced with corruption of this nature. … (Interruptions) Perhaps, you are impressed with the kind of corruption. … (Interruptions) प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा : कांग्रेस पार्टी ने जो ठीक काम नहीं किए, अगर हम वह सब बताने लगें तो there will not be any end to it. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : Sir, I am just winding up my speech. … (Interruptions) सभापति महोदय : आपकी पार्टी अपने निर्धारित समय में बोलेगी, आप बैठ जाइए[ak36] । The test is, “subjective opinion based on objective criteria”. … (Interruptions) श्री जुएल ओराम ( सुन्दरगढ़ ) : सभापति महोदय,क्या आप एक बात हमारी भी सुनेंगे।…( व्यवधान) SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I am not yielding. MR. CHAIRMAN : Hon. Member, please take your seat. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I am not yielding. … (Interruptions) He is not being tried in a court of law. The test is, “subjective opinion of this House based on objective criteria”. If that subjective opinion is based on subjective criteria, the motion should not be passed. If that subjective opinion is based on objective criteria, the motion must be passed. It is not a question of hanging anybody; it is not a question of depriving anybody of his life and livelihood. That is the short test. Now, what did the Committee say? We have the Report. The Committee says, “We have not just seen the edited portion; we saw the entire unedited portion, and the sequential nature of the unedited portion suggests that it was a course of event that was taking place and there is no scope for any tampering. Now, if somebody says… (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : Please do not put words into the mouth of the Committee and quote it. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : I will read out the Committee Report in full. PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : That is what I have objected to. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : You may object to it. The Committee says, 

“In view of the totality of the facts and circumstances of the cases, the Committee are of the opinion that the allegations of accepting money by the 10 Members have been established.” 

  

… (Interruptions) PROF. VIJAY KUMAR MALHOTRA : I am taking objection to that. SHRI KAPIL SIBAL : You are in a minority, and the majority will is there. “The Committee further note that it is difficult to escape the conclusion that accepting money had a direct connection with work in Parliament.” 

  

That is the test. The Committee has applied the right test. It has looked at the objective criteria; it has come to a conclusion, and the work is related to the Members work in Parliament. Therefore, we now have to decide whether this kind of conduct, which the Committee has prima facie accepted on facts -- he can challenge it in a court of law; nobody prevents him -- is unbecoming of a Member of Parliament or not. If all of us believe it is becoming of a Member of Parliament, fine, defeat the motion. However, if you in your hearts believe that it is unbecoming of a Member of Parliament, then the motion must be voted on and accepted. That is all that we need to say. Therefore, all these issues of trials, of hanging, of life and liberty, are non-issues. Let us please rise to the occasion, not as members of one political party, but as a House collectively, and show to the people of this country that we are on the right side of the law; we are on the side of morality; we are on the side of setting standards; we are on the side of principles; we are on the side of making this nation a great democracy; we are on the side of making this House a symbol of democracy for the world, not just for India. … (Interruptions) LT. COL. ( RETD.) MANABENDRA SHAH (TEHRI GARHWAL ): Sir, I am seeking your permission to seek a clarification. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO ( KALAHANDI ): He wants a clarification, Sir. MR. CHAIRMAN: There is no need to seek any clarification. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO : Sir, he is a senior Member. LT. COL. ( RETD.) MANABENDRA SHAH : While we are discussing this, I want to know whether we are supporting or opposing the recommendation or we are talking about the amendment, that is, whether it should be done the way we want it or whether it should be done the way you want it. The whole debate is on that. It is not about whether we are for it or against it. We have to pass only an amendment seeking that the necessary procedure should be followed. सभापति महोदय :आप प्रैस नहीं कर सकते। LT. COL. ( RETD.) MANABENDRA SHAH : I am a very senior Member and I must have some respect from the Chair. I want to know whether the amendment is being opposed or the whole thing is being opposed. I would like to know about his opinion on this issue. सभापति महोदय :आप कम्पैल नहीं कर सकते। LT. COL. ( RETD.) MANABENDRA SHAH : Mr. Chairman, you cannot do that. I am sorry to say that[R37] . SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH Sir, I stand to speak on the motion under Rule 184.  This House is confronted with an extraordinary situation and if we go down the memory lane of this House, we find that there is only one case of Mudgal, which was debated before this motion under Rule 184 has come to this House. May I also say that our party - like what has been said from the Treasury Benches - that we are not against this motion?  I must put here that we are for morality, we are for the democratic system, we are for honesty and truth and we are for all that,  and what has been said here. But may I also put here that if my own son had been charged with something like this, I think, I would have disowned him? So, let it not be said that it is morally the parties faulting against the moral views and the ethics which have been shown on the TV. May I also put the cause like what Prof. Malhotra has said?  What is required is a fair trial for the 11 Members? It is a very sad thing.  We are debating someone else. Our eminent lawyer on the other side, who is just going out, if he had been sitting here, he would have argued this case in a different way, and he would have been as convincing as if he was sitting there. But it is a different thing to argue a case where hundreds and thousands of rupees  you take.  You can argue it, rightly or wrongly, wherever you are told to do so. Sir, may I say here that nowhere else in the country or nowhere else in the world has the sting operation been allowed. In Japan, it is a banned thing. In America, it is banned and wherever somebody takes a bribe, both the giver and the taker are indicted.  Let me also put here that I remember that I myself had put forth a sting operation.  This was on the security.  All the newspapers of this country had indicted me and said that the Member had gone into the Parliament with a fake pass on the car and that is the time when I put forth my views and I said that this was a sting operation. The very media which is talking about this, had told me as to who has given me the authority to do it.  I ask here as to who had given the authority to the media to conduct this sting operation. The CBI is our greatest investigating authority. It is also given the charge of looking into the MP's corruption charges and they can do the string operation but even the CBI has not been given the powers to take up sting operations of inducement.  They cannot use their own funds to induce people and charge them and that authority has not been given even to the CBI. Then, may I ask that who gave these operations - Duryodhanand Tehelka - the authority to doit[R38] ? Let me also put across that even in the Defence Forces, even if there is a cases of misappropriation, they have to go through a court martial. We have read a few years ago that a Major General was caught smuggling liquor in trucks.  Even he has not been discharged from service because there is a court martial  which will look into it. There has to be a yardstick for sting operations that is what we are talking about.  It is a very dangerous game that is being conducted, and especially let us take a hypothetical case of these 11 Members, our colleagues, who have been indicted.  How do we know that they were not five or 10 more Members and they could be from the Treasury Benches or from here?  These same people have blackmailed the Treasury Benches, the Government to say that this is what we require and that is how we will not get these names out.  How do we know about it?  It can be a possibility. That is what is going around and that there were some very influential people in the MPLADS, whose names were there but their names have been taken out only because the same system and  the same people have gone to them and said that - holding the whole party to ransom, the whole country to ransom - that is what we need, otherwise, they will be expelled tomorrow from Lok Sabha.  It is a possibility.  It can happen.  I am told that they were not just 11 Members, there are more than 11 Members, who had been caught in this but that has not come out. May I also say this? Our learned friend, Shri Kapil Sibal has said that this House is a repository of Judiciary, Legislature and Executive, and now that we have delegated all these powers to others and we have just kept the Legislature.  If this is what it is, why should we sit on judgement on these 11 Members, our colleagues?  Exactly, this is what he is saying.  We have delegated these powers to others.  Let that be an authority, who looks into the judicial case, and give a pronouncement of what should be given, what punishment should be meted out to these 11 Members[R39] . I feel that it is very important that a fair trial is given. Shri Kapil Sibal was talking that ample opportunity was given to these Members to put forth their views. They were heard for ten minutes. Are the ten minutes good enough for them to explain? Was there any other evidence that they wanted to put forth which did not come out? If they had got the services of an eminent lawyer like Shri Kapil Sibal, I think, the table would have been changed. I feel that we must give them a chance to put their case across. May I also say one more thing? सभापति महोदय :  प्लीज आप कन्कलूड कीजिए। अभी आपकी पार्टी, बी.जे.पी. के बहुत से सदस्यों ने बोलना है। SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : Why is it that we have done all this? I think, the whole country is looking at us. I commend the Speaker who took a quick decision of forming a Committee to go into the details of the scam. But I am surprised to find how the Rajya Sabha gave this task to their Ethics Committee. Our Speaker, in all his wisdom, should have also given this to the Privileges Committee or to the Ethics Committee. What was the need of having a small Committee to hand over this work? Do we not have the Ethics Committee? Do we not have the Privileges Committee? Why is it that this work was given to a small five-Member Committee? I appeal that it will be right and justice will be meted out if we hand it over to the Ethics Committee or the Privileges Committee. This is what I have to say. SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA Sir, let me, at the beginning, submit that expulsion of the Members from the House is a grave punishment. The way Shri Kapil Sibal was arguing, I do not buy his argument. It is a serious punishment. It tantamounts to inflicting grave injury to the political career of the persons concerned. Let there be no doubt about that. I do not also buy the argument that what was done in the past was all correct and what is being done now is incorrect. This is a specific case; this is a singular case. During the last 57 years, such a case has never come to the surface. So many people have been charged; so much of publicity has been given; and so much of rancour and acrimony has been there. It is a singular instance which rocks the very basic foundation of the Republic of India. And, I agree, this is not a party question. This is not a question which you should discuss in terms of what is the party to which the majority of the Members belong. I do not take that line, neither that route should be taken by anybody. But the basic question is that suspicion cannot be a truth; suspicion cannot be a substitute for facts. The hon. Member, while speaking, just  now said that it has to be found out whether this sting operation was provoked by somebody in the Treasury Benches[p40] . That was the line, if I am not wrong, that I heard. There is a suspicion.  If there is any evidence of  suspicion, it can be very well brought to the notice of the House. 14.40 hrs                                           (Mr. Speaker in the Chair). We are not here to raise our hands in favour of any inappropriate resolution.  We do not belong to any bandwagon to say that we shall say, yes if something wrong  is said. That is not the issue. The basis issue, as I feel is that it is an undoubted truth, it is an undiluted fact that some people had taken money and those who had taken money did it in exchange of raising questions in Parliament.  It is a plain truth  which came on the screen, it is a plain truth which has been looked into by a Committee. Now, my hon. friend, Prof. Malhotra has raised a number of issues.  I find his statement a little contradictory.  I would say why.   On the one hand he says: “Is expulsion the appropriate punishment? Is it not too harsh?”  Secondly, he says, whether the right of expulsion vests to the House or not.  Thirdly, he has raised the question, whether the route of expulsion should have been taken through the Privileges Committee. Fourthly, he says… (Interruptions) Excuse me.  My views are not to be accepted by you.  But there is a  veiled threat.  What he says is: “ In Assemblies, where political complexion is different, the  majority is different, the same course may be taken.” This is very unfortunate. Let us discuss the issue on merit. The merit of the issue is that some of our  colleagues have taken money, and the question that is being discussed here is whether they were given enough opportunity to defend themselves. Sir, para 3.5, which is the last para, of page 26 of the Report  says: “In this context, the Committee would like to bring to record that all the 10 Members while deposing before the Committee were asked whether they would like to view  the relevant video footage so that they could point out the discrepancies, if any.  All the Members refused to view the relevant video footage.” What does it mean?  It means that the Members so accused were afraid to face the truth on the screen.… (Interruptions)  That is my interpretation. You can put out it separately. But my interpretation is that these 10 Members were afraid  to face the video screening of the tape that was screened on the television.  Why was it not taken to view?  They could have pointed out where the discrepancies lie. If they had pointed that there were the discrepancies, then we could have accused the Committee for taking a partisan stand. Sir, Prof. Malhotra raised a question that according to him the trial has been very swift.  May I suggest that the Resolution was moved in this House; the hon. Speaker  made the announcement that the Committee was being set up  to give its views within 10 days.  At that point of time, no hon. Member from  any side had raised this question.  All Members were present in the House, and it was brought to the notice of the House that it is going to be a  swift trial, too swift to bring justice to the case that we are discussing about.  Therefore,  the whole House is a party  to a decision wherein a Committee was set up and the Committee was given a time of 10 days to make its recommendations to Lok Sabha[k41] . Therefore, what is wrong in it?  At that point of time, it was not stated that let this Committee not be set up; let this case be referred to the Privileges Committee. But what is now being said by the hon. Member and my esteemed friend Prof. Malhotra -- we had been together in the Rajya Sabha for many years and we are together in the Ethics Committee  -- is that why the Privileges Committee was not given this job and why this Committee  was appointed.    It is an afterthought. While the decision was being taken in the House, all of us were party to it including  Prof. Malhotra, and it was not suggested at any point of time that Five-Member Committee was not enough, and let this case be sent to the Privileges  Committee? Why is this afterthought now? Sir, I am amused by the argument of my hon. friend. What he says is that ‘a military officer was caught red-handed while smuggling a bottle of wine, but he was not thrown out; he was sent for court martial. SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : A truckload of bottles were seized.… (Interruptions) SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA : That is exactly  I am saying.… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER:  Mr. Vijayendra Pal Singh, please. You have made many allegations against the Chair also. I will answer them. SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA : Does he believe that this  condoning of criminality, if it is truth in military, the same way we should condone the aberrations of Parliamentary principles in Lok Sabha also? What is the argument about? Sir, the basic question is that they were given the transcripts of the exposure; they were supplied with the copy; and they were heard, in person.  They were asked whether they wanted to see the unedited portion but they refused it. Therefore, in my humble opinion --  I am there in Parliament for quite a long time – no finger can be raised pointing out that the Committee so appointed by the House did not do its job. Sir, a question is being raised about the sting operation that sting operation is banned in Japan; that it is banned in the United States.  If they want to ban the sting operation in India, they may bring a Resolution.  We can discuss it. But since  sting operation has exposed 10 Members of Parliament, therefore, let us not raise  the question of credibility of the Media. Media has done its job.  Parliament is to do its job. It is for the Parliament to decide whether the findings of this sting operation has any basis, has any material.  Its objective calls for punitive action  of Parliament or we can condone it.  Let us not blame the Media. They have done their job.  We should do our job. Sir, therefore, the basic point is  this… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER:  Please conclude. SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA :  I know, Sir, that I am hurting them.  I know, my arguments do hurt… (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Mr. Kharabela Swain, you do not have to teach anybody.  Please take your seat. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Nothing will be recorded except what Mr. Dasgupta says. (Interruptions) * 

*Not Recorded. MR. SPEAKER: Mr. Dasgupta, please address the Chair. श्री जुएल ओराम : यदि आप मानेंगे तो मैं २९ और ३० केवल दो पैरा पढ़ूंगा। MR. SPEAKER: No, not now. When you get your turn, you may speak then.  Now, please do not disturb. It is not being recorded, Mr. Oram. (Interruptions)* 

SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA : Sir, I concede that it is a tragic situation for the Parliament; I concede that I speak with the heavy heart and I concede that the situation constitutes a grave crisis for the nation as well for the Parliament[k42] . It is not with a sense of joy that we are here to speak in support or against the expulsion. It is in the discharge of our duty as enjoined by the Constitution. Let us part with the company of our colleagues who have themselves parted with all moral scruples and allowed themselves to reach the bottom of moral degradation, abusing cynically the position they have been elevated to by the electorate of the country. MR. SPEAKER: Please conclude. SHRI GURUDAS DASGUPTA : I am concluding. I must say one thing here. The political system of the country is interpreted to be tainted. When the political life of the country is overcast with dense cloud of suspicion and mistrust, when the public figures – not all, but many – are on the point of losing their credibility, when the political system appears to be tainted and when all that we do are sought to be interpreted as an act for gain, there is a need to begin an effort to turn the wheel of events – the message must be loud and clear that the 14th Lok Sabha is determined to initiate a process for cleansing the public life and clear the apprehension among the people. __________________________________________________________________ 

*Not Recorded. The apprehension among the people must be dispelled; the Parliament has risen to its height to indict the Members who fell much below the bottom by being accused, and have been found to be taking money. It is with a heavy heart that we light a flame of hope among the millions in deep darkness of despair in this House. Let the nation know that the highest temple of democracy cannot be blurred and cannot be tainted by the action of a few because the majority has taken a decision to punish them with an exemplary punishment. MR. SPEAKER: Before I call the next hon. Member to speak, I wish to make a comment because when I was not here, one hon. Member unnecessarily brought the Chair into this debate. He put a question as to why the Chair did not refer it to the Privileges Committee and why the Chair did not refer it to the Ethics Committee, etc. The answer is very simple. The House is ultimately the master. The composition of this Committee, the time that should be allowed, etc. were fixed in consultation with all the hon. leaders, including the leader of party to which the hon. Member belongs. His Party acceded to it. As a matter of fact, he agreed to be a member of it; he became a member of it. He participated in it. Therefore, why should you bring the Chair into this now? It was said by me that the report that will be submitted, would be presented to the House. It had been presented to the House. It is for the House to take a decision. The Committee can only make a recommendation. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: No. You have already brought it. … (Interruptions) SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : I have praised the Chair too. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: This is very unfair to the Chair. … (Interruptions) SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : I praised you. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: I do not need anybody’s praise. I only said this just to keep the records straight. It was not my unilateral or individual decision. Now, Shri Anant Gudhe. SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : I have all the respects for you. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: This is very unfortunate. From the very beginning, I have said that I have nothing to do in this matter. I have made no comments on the merits; I have not said that it should be passed or it should not be passed. I have only referred that the Resolution has been brought forward. Now, to say that I did not refer it to that Committee, is not fair. … (Interruptions) SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH : You did not even mention that part of it – I said that the Speaker took such a good decision, which everybody appreciated. You left out that portion. You mention only the part which hurts you. MR. SPEAKER: Yes, it hurts me and it hurts the institution, because you make the Chair a party to the controversy[R43] . श्री अनंत गुढ़े अध्यक्ष महोदय, १२ दिसम्बर को मीडिया ने संसद सदस्यों द्वारा प्रश्न पूछने के लिए पैसे लेने के बारे में बताया था, उससे संबंधित बंसल कमेटी की जो रिपोर्ट आई है, उस पर आज सदन में चर्चा हो रही है। चर्चा करने की जो मुख्य बात है, इसमें कोई दो राय नहीं है कि हम इन्हें शिक्षा दें। इन्हें शिक्षा देने के बारे में सारे सदन की एक राय है। सत्तारूढ़ पक्ष और विपक्ष इस बारे में एकमत हैं। उन्हें नियम के अनुसार शिक्षा मिले, इसमें कोई दो राय नहीं है। लेकिन शिक्षा देते समय, उन्हें अपनी सफाई देने की पूरी सुविधा मिलनी चाहिए। हम जो सजा उन्हें देने जा रहे हैं, उसके बारे में उन्हें कहने का पूरा अवसर मिलना चाहिए। इसी बात पर जो संशोधन श्री मल्होत्रा जी की तरफ से आया है, उस पर केवल चर्चा हो रही है। इस देश में भ्रष्टाचार कोई नई बात नहीं है। स्वतंत्रता मिलने के पहले से ही इस देश में भ्रष्टाचार है। एक बार तो इस देश के पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री जी ने कहा था कि देश में इतना भ्रष्टाचार है कि हम जब गरीबों के लिए यहां से एक रुपया भेजते हैं, तो लोगों तक केवल १५ पैसे पहुंचता है और ८५ पैसे करप्शन में चले जाते हैं। जहां तक इस रिपोर्ट का सवाल है, मैंने पढ़ा है, सारे मुद्दे इसमें लिए गए हैं। श्री अनिरुद्ध बहल और टीवी चैनल आज तक के साथ यहां पर जो विटनेस हुई थी, उसमें कहा गया है कि दो सदस्य थे, जिनके पास हम गए थे, लेकिन उन सदस्यों ने पैसे नहीं लिए। उनके पीए ने पैसे लिए। सबसे बड़ा यह सवाल खड़ा होता है कि घूस लेना जितना बड़ा गुनाह है, क्या घूस देना उतना बड़ा गुनाह नहीं है? इन्होंने घूस देने की कोशिश की है और यह सब रचाया है। जिन्होंने घूस ली है, ठीक है, उनके विरुद्ध कार्यवाही हुई है, लेकिन जिन्होंने घूस देने की कोशिश की है, उनके ऊपर क्या कार्यवाही की गई? इस रिपोर्ट में क्यों नहीं कहा गय कि वे भी गुनाहगार हैं। यह बात इस रिपोर्ट में नहीं कही गई है। यहां पर श्री कपिल सिब्बल जी, जो सदन के सदस्य भी हैं और मंत्री भी हैं, उन्होंने अपने भाषण में कहा कि क्या हम उन्हें फांसी पर चढ़ा रहे हैं, जेल में भेज रहे हैं, लेकिन जो सदस्य १५-२० लाख लोगों में से चुन कर आता है, जो सदस्य लाखों लोगों की तरफ से सदन का सदस्य चुन कर आता है, इतनी बड़ी संसद में आता है, मुझे लगता है कि जेल भेजना, उनकी राष्ट्रीय हत्या है। हम उनकी पोलटिक्ल हत्या कर रहे हैं। उनका समाज में जो स्थान है, वह आगे चल कर नहीं रहेगा। अगर कोई गरीब गुनाह करता है, तो हम उसे सफाई के सारे अवसर प्रदान करते हैं कि वह अपने आपको निर्दोष साबित कर सके। निचली कोर्ट में, हाई कोर्ट में और सुप्रीम कोर्ट में जाने की सुविधा है। अगर कोई अधिकारी भ्रष्टाचार करता है, घूस लेता है, तो उसके लिए भी सारे दरवाजे खुले रहते हैं। सारी अदालतें खुली रहती है और बाद में वह फिर से नौकरी में आ जाता है। ऐसे कई केसिस इस देश में हुए हैं। उन्हें भ्रष्टाचार के लिए कोई फांसी नहीं दी गई cè[i44] । १५.०० hrs. 

  अध्यक्ष महोदय, दिनांक १२ दिसम्बर को यह मामला टी.वी. न्यूज चैनल पर आया, १५ दिसम्बर को कमेटी बनी, २२ दिसम्बर को रिपोर्ट सब्मिट हुई और आज २३ दिसम्बर को यहां चर्चा हो रही है। सदन के नेता बोल रहे हैं कि इनको सजा दी जाए। इस संबंध में, मैं केवल इतना ही कहना चाहता हूं कि इस मामले की पूरी तरह से परीक्षा हो और इस द्ृष्टि से इस मामले को विशेषाधिकार समति को सौंप दिया जाए। महोदय, यदि यह मामला कोर्ट में जाएगा, तो कोर्ट सीधे-सीधे यही कहेगा कि सजा देने की जो प्रक्रिया होती है, वह नहीं अपनाई गई। संसद ने इस पर गहन चर्चा नहीं की और संसद ने एकदम इस बारे में डिसीजन ले लिया। कोर्ट हम पर ऐलीगेशन लगा सकता है। कोर्ट का देखने का नजरिया अलग होता है। मैं यह मानता हूं कि संसद सबसे ऊपर और संसद सबसे बड़ी है। इस देश से भ्रष्टाचार मिटाना है, इसमें कोई दो राय नहीं हैं। इस पर सारे सदस्य एक हैं, लेकिन यह सब करते समय और भ्रष्टाचार देश से मिटाने की बात करते समय, यह भी देखा जाना चाहिए कि जो गुनेहगार हैं, उन्हें अपने बचाव का पूरा चांस मिलना चाहिए। अध्यक्ष महोदय :  प्राइवेट मैम्बर्स बिजनैस को अगले सैशन के लिए ट्रांसफर कर देते हैं। श्री अनंत गुढ़े : महोदय, न्यायालय हमेशा यह कहता है कि भले ही १० गुनेहगार छूट जाएं, लेकिन एक बेगुनाह को सजा नहीं होनी चाहिए। जब कोर्ट इतनी बात कहता है और इन सब बातों को देखता है, तो इस मामले में जिन्हें दोषी करार दिया जा रहा है, उन्हें बचाव का पूरा अवसर देना चाहिए। इसलिए प्रो. विजय कुमार मल्होत्रा जी ने जो प्रस्ताव रखा है कि विशेषाधिकार समति को इस मामले को भेजा जाए, वहां इस मामले में पूरी चर्चा हो, वैसा किया जाए। इस बारे में हमारी शिव सेना पार्टी भी उनसे सहमत है। हमारी पार्टी भी चाहती है कि किसी गुनेहगार को बख्शा नहीं जाए, लेकिन किसी को सजा देने से पहले उसे बचाव का पूरा चांस देना चाहिए। मैं सिर्फ इतना कहकर अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY Sir, it is a very painful day. This is the most unfortunate incident for the entire country, particularly for us in this august House and for parliamentary democracy in general. Sir, I would like to remind the House about the debate of the Constituent Assembly that took place to decide about a minimum qualification for the legislators. MR. CHAIRMAN: The Private Members’ Business stands postponed to the next Session. SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY : The debate continued for a long time to decide about setting a minimum educational qualification a standard for a legislator. But in the light of the fact that all our freedom fighters had to give up their studies midway, it was decided not to keep any minimum educational qualification standard for the legislators. But very rightly they had talked about and decided that the "moral education", as the minimum qualification for a legislator. Now, we are completely bankrupt on this question of moral education. Sir, now the entire country does not believe in the political people. People have lost their trust and confidence in the public representatives. But I would like to remind this House that the Sting Operation, whatever happened, has happened outside the Parliament. श्री राम कृपाल यादव अध्यक्ष महोदय, प्राइवेट मैम्बर्स बिल पर चर्चा करने का समय हो गया है। MR. SPEAKER: You had not been careful when I said about this. The Private Members’ Business will be taken up in the next Session. SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY : I would like to know whether we are intending to take action on something which happened outside the Parliament?  This is the fundamental question that I would like to raise and I would like to be answered about this[rpm45] . When this House [bru46] has the wisdom to take action on something which has happened outside the Parliament, then why are the tainted Ministers sitting here against whom there are serious corruption charges? Why they are not disqualified?  They are not dismembered so far?  They are continuing to hold their portfolio when the bail process is going on.  Is it right on our part to take action only against Members while such alleged corrupt Ministers, who ought to set an example to others, are sitting here? They are continuing as Ministers and also Members of this House.  This question has to be answered.  When we are debating on this issue and when we take a final decision on this issue, this question has to be answered.  This question has not yet been answered. Sir, you are a leading legal expert in the country. So, I would not like to explain each point.  What is our legal jurisprudence? What does it speak about? Our Legal jurisprudence is based completely on human grounds.  Human values are reflected there, in our legal jurisprudence.  It says that a culprit may be excused or acquitted but an innocent person should not be punished. We are adhering to this type of legal jurisprudence. This jurisprudence is accepted by us and the Constitution has also accepted this legal jurisprudence.  Our criminal laws are based on this legal jurisprudence. Even if a crime has happened or occurred in the presence of a judge, he cannot hang that person.  Even if the judge is an eye witness to the occurrence of the crime, he will have to follow the procedure like FIR, police case, etc. 

 15.07 hrs.                              (Shri Varkala Radhakrishnan in the Chair) 

There shall  be cross-examination etc. even in that case.  That is why, the eyes of justice are blind.  Even if the crime has happened in his presence, and even if he is an eye witness to it, he cannot punish the culprit.  He shall have to go through the procedure required and only then punish the guilty.  We have accepted this legal jurisprudence and we have adhered to it.  If this is the position, then how will it be possible just to dismember or expel a Member of Parliament? I want to bring one point from the Report of the Committee to the notice of the House.  I want to refer to paragraph 29 wherein one of the ten accused  Members, Shri Lal Chandra Kol has given evidence. What has he said in his evidence before the Committee on 18th December, 2005?  In paragraph 29, it is stated: 16.00 hrs 

         But, unfortunately, in the recent past something happened, and it was depicted on the TV channels. This has brought down the prestige of the institution, namely, the Parliament. The culprits should definitely be punished or given punishment. But I feel that the way we are rushing up the things has not given the hon. Members a fair chance to present and plead their case before the Committee. In my opinion, they should have been given some other way -- of parliamentary procedure -- to prove their case before the Motion was moved to expel 10 hon. Members of this House. They should have taken any decision on this issue only after this. I agree with some of our colleagues, who spoke about the way print media and electronic media behaved in this case. There were allegations that, in spite of resistance from some of the Members, some of them forced them to accept it saying that we would adjust it afterwards. I feel that there is no need for a Member to go to somebody. Therefore, the question to be taken into consideration is this. Had the Members gone to somebody’s house or had these people come to the Member’s house. This point has certainly to be taken into account. Finally, I would request that those who committed mistakes should be punished, and there is no doubt about it. But at the same time the conduct of the electronic media -- by entering the houses of the Members of Parliament and making sensational news -- has to be probed, and appropriate action taken. डॉ. राजेश मिश्रा सभापति महोदय,मैं बोलने से पहले वर्तमान यू.पी.ए. सरकार की चेयरपर्सन, देश के प्रधान मंत्री और माननीय प्रणब बाबू के प्रति इस मोशन के माध्यम से आभार व्यक्त करना चाहता हूं। यह आभार व्यक्त करने का हमारा मकसद यह नहीं है कयह मोशन हाउस में आया है बल्कि पिछले २०-२५ सालों से या यूं कहिये इनके पहले जिस तरह से इस देश में भ्रष्टाचार पर चर्चा हो रही थी, जिस तरह से जन-प्रतनधियों की इमेज को खराब करने का प्रयास किया जा रहा था, डैमोक्रेटिक सिस्टम, पार्लियामेटरी सिस्टम पर या समाज के तमाम पक्षों पर अटैक किया जा रहा था और यह जो प्रयास किया जा रहा था कि जो भी जन-प्रतनधि हैं, जो राजनेता हैं या जो सरकारें या मंत्री हैं, सब कहीं न कहीं भ्रष्ट हैं। इस मोशन के माध्यम से यू.पी.ए. सरकार की चेयरपर्सन और सरकार ने भ्रष्टाचार पर करारा प्रहार किया है, उसके लिये मैं उन्हें बधाई देता हूं। सभापति महोदय, टी.वी. चैनल पर एक स्टोरी दिखाई गई। माननीय अध्यक्ष के आसन से एक व्यवस्था दी गई जिसके अंतर्गत श्री बंसल की अध्यक्षता में एक जांच समति गठित की गई। यदि वह समति इस प्रकार का प्रस्ताव करती होती कि इन सम्माननीय सदस्यों को और भी सुना जाना चाहिये, उन्हें और मौका दिया जाना चाहिये था तो बात समझ में आती कि उन्हें और मौका दिया जाना चाहिये ।समति ने यह निर्णय नहीं किया, समति ने अपनी फाइंडिंग्ज़ की, और अपनी रिपोर्ट दी। समति द्वारा कहा गया कि कहीं न कहीं ये लोग आरोपित हैं, इसमें कुछ सत्यता है, इसलिये इस पर कार्यवाही होनी चाहिये। यह सही है कि जब अपने साथियों पर जो आरोप लगे हैं, उन पर कार्यवाही किये जाने के लिये जब हम लोग बात करते हैं तो निश्चित तौर पर कष्ट होता है लेकिन दूसरी तरफ जब हम यह देखते हैं क लोकतंत्र के अंदर, संसदीय व्यवस्था के अंदर जो सर्वोच्च संस्थायें हैं और यह भी कहा जाता है कि भ्रष्टाचार ऊपर से नीचे की ओर आता cè[RB56] , और जब सर्वोच्च संस्था आरोपित हो रही है तो बलि तो देनी ही पड़ेगी, यदि हमें भ्रष्टाचार को रोकना है। जब हम लोग सांसदों की सदस्यता की समाप्ति की बात करते हैं तो बहुत कष्ट होता है। लेकिन इसका एक दूसरा पक्ष भी है, जिसके बारे में मैं आज सदन में चर्चा करना चाहता हूं कि क्या सिर्फ हम सांसदों की सदस्यता को समाप्त करके भ्रष्टाचार पर अंकुश लगा पायेंगे?  यह एक अहम् विषय है। सभापति महोदय, लोकतंत्र की चार व्यवस्थाएं हैं - व्यवस्थापिका, कार्यपालिका, न्यायपालिका और मीडिया। आज इस पर भी बहस होनी चाहिए और हमें अपने गिरेबान में झांककर देखना चाहिए कि हम क्या हैं? इसके बाद हम दूसरे को आरोपित करें। इस सदन में कभी-कभी ऐसी बहस भी हुई है। हम लोग न्यू कमर्स हैं, लेकिन हमने सुना है और तमाम चर्चाओं में ये बातें आती हैं कि आज हमें ज्यूडशियरी डिक्टेट कर रही है। आज यह एक बहुत बड़ा प्रश्न हमारे सामने है और अभी तक इस बात को कहा जाता था कि हमें सिर्फ ज्यूडशियरी डिक्टेट करती थी, लेकिन अब क्या हमें मीडिया डिक्टेट करेगा, क्या मीडिया इस हाउस को चलायेगा?  आज यह बहुत ही अहम् प्रश्न है। हम किसी को आरोपित नहीं करते, लेकिन हम यह जरूर कहना चाहेंगे कि इस बात की जांच होनी चाहिए कि जो स्िंटग ऑपरेशन चला था, उसके बारे में हमने तथा तमाम हमारे साथियों ने सुना है कि दो करोड़ रुपये में इस सी.डी. को बेचने का प्रयास किया गया। लेकिन अधिकतर चैनलों ने इतना पैसा देना कबूल नहीं किया, इसलिए यह सी.डी. उन्हें नहीं दी गई। लेकिन जिस चैनल ने पैसा देना कबूल किया, उस चैनल को यह सी.डी. दे दी गई। इससे उन्हें कितना लाभ हुआ, उनके पास यह पैसा कहां से आया? इसकी भी जांच होनी चाहिए। मैं एक बात और कहना चाहता हूं कि स्वतंत्रता का मतलब स्वच्छंदता नहीं होता है। मीडिया को लोकतंत्र में स्वतंत्रता है। लेकिन लोकतंत्र की मजबूती के लिए यह आवश्यक है कि जिसे स्वतंत्रता मिले, उसे स्वच्छंदता नहीं मिलनी चाहिए। मैं एक छोटा सा उदाहरण देना चाहता हूं - जब तमाम हमारे साथी चुनाव लड़ते हैं और चुनाव के समय मैं इस बात का भुक्तभोगी हूं, इसलिए मुझे यह बात सदन में कहनी पड़ रही है कि मीडिया के लोगों ने चुनाव में हमें फोन करके कहा था कि आप पांच लाख रुपये दीजिए, हम आपके पक्ष में लगातार स्टोरी छापेंगे।…( व्यवधान)   यह बात हमसे कही गई थी। यह क्या है? इसके अलावा जहां मैं रहता हूं, उस ब्लॉक में कल दोपहर को तमाम गाड़ियां खड़ी थीं। पता नहीं किन लोगों की गाड़ियां हैं। मैं यहां संसद में मौजूद था और जब मैं रात को घर पहुंचा तो हमे मालूम हुआ कि वहां किसी सज्जन की लाल बत्ती की गाड़ी खड़ी थी और कोई मीडिया का व्यक्ति कह रहा था कि लाल बत्ती की गाड़ी लगाने का अधिकार किसी को नहीं है। मैं सदन से जानना चाहता हूं कि इस तरह के इन्वैस्टिगेशन का अधिकार इन्हें किसने दिया है? मैं बहुत ही विनम्र शब्दों में कहना चाहता हूं कि हमारी यू.पी.ए. की सरकार ने करप्शन पर बहुत करारा प्रहार जरूर किया है, लेकिन यदि हमें भ्रष्टाचार को पूरी तरह से रोकना है तो आज पूरे सदन को यह शपथ भी लेनी चाहिए कि लोकतंत्र की जो चार विधायें हैं, इन चारों विधाओं को स्वच्छंदता नहीं मिलनी चाहिए। यदि एक सम्मानित सासंद को स्वच्छंदता नहीं है तो इसके दूसरे अंगों को भी स्वच्छंदता नहीं मिलनी चाहिए। यदि इसी तरह से स्वच्छंदता मिलेगी तो एक एनार्की पैदा होगी और यदि एनार्की (अराजकता) पैदा होगी तो मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि जो हमारी व्यवस्था है, वह व्यवस्था समाप्त हो जायेगी। यह बात कहते हुए मैं इस मोशन का समर्थन करता हूं और इसके साथ ही मैं यह भी कहना चाहता हूं कि इसकी पूरी इंक्वायरी होनी चाहिए कि वह कैसेट कितने में बिकी थी, उन लोगों की मंशा क्या थी और इस स्िंटग ऑपरेशन से पहले उनके पास इतना पैसा कहां से आया, जिसके द्वारा यह आपरेशन किया गया और नकद पैसा लिया गया, इन सब तथ्यों की सी.बी.आई. द्वारा पूरी इंक्वायरी होनी चाहिए। SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN Mr. Chairman, Sir, when I came for the first time to Parliament, I received a very voluminous report. It was the report of the Ethics Committee. However, I do not know till now what the role of the Ethics Committee is, why it is constituted, and what it is supposed to do? Today, I will come to Bansal sahab’s report. He has quoted in his report ethics, standards in public life, privileges, and facilities to Members and related matters. The last sentence of the second paragraph on page 30 of this report says: Let me first clarify my party’s position. When this expose was first shown on TV, I do not think that there was any delay whatsoever in our party taking appropriate action. Our party immediately suspended all the Members belonging to our party from the parliamentary party. We readily agreed with the suggestion of all Leaders that a Committee be formed. I think, you have acted in a manner which can only add to the dignity and prestige of this House. Therefore, to allege that we are in any way trying to undermine what the Committee has recommended is not true. Our Party is, in fact, a votary for strict action to be taken against anybody who in any way undermines the prestige of this august House. There is no division; there is no dispute on this. The spirit in which you, in the morning, advised us that this is a serious matter and this should not be politicised, should not become a ‘free for all’, the level of the debate must be kept higher, has unfortunately been violated. It has been violated by all sides. But very surprisingly it has been violated by the senior Ministers of the Government who have alleged one thing or the other against different political parties. This was not what you told us. Therefore, our only request to this House is that we fully appreciate and we fully are in agreement that any Member who has done in any way, an act which will take away the dignity of this House, must be punished. Our request is that before such a person is punished or persons are punished, they must be given an adequate opportunity to present their case. It is argued that this Committee did offer them that they could view the raw footage. We all appreciate that this Committee did not have either the technical competence or the legal competence to have gone into the technical and legal matters. Video tapes can be doctored. Today, I have heard that there is a news channel which is going to unmask video tapes of  very senior leaders who are shown to be saying something which they have not and the channel claiming that these are mocks. We cannot have that. In a situation like this, when the technology allows us to doctor tapes, why are we in such a hurry that we take a step which is irretrievable[p61] [p62] ? I could understand if these Members were being suspended  for a couple of months; the time would run out; and they would come back as Members to the House.  Then, I personally, would not be insisting  that it must go to the Privileges Committee because, okay, whatever the punishment the House has decided to give them, it will run out. But the House is today discussing on a Motion, which will take away their Membership of this House permanently. Before you sentence them permanently, before you give them a permanent punishment, they must be allowed to present their case in a manner that they feel is proper, in a time-bound manner.   I do not think that Heavens are going to fall if  a couple of weeks later,  the same kind of a punishment  the House endorses, and it is given out. श्री जुएल ओराम : दो-तीन आदिवासी लोग हैं, उनके बदले हम थोड़ा बोल सकते हैं क्या? अध्यक्ष महोदय : बोलिये। आपका नाम भी आपकी पार्टी ने नहीं दिया। श्री जुएल ओराम : नहीं दिया, क्योंकि आदिवासी को सब बोलते हैं। अध्यक्ष महोदय : नहीं, चौबे जी को बुलाते हैं, चौबे जी का नाम है। आपकी पार्टी ने आपको सलैक्ट नहीं किया। चौबे जी का नाम उन्होंने भेजा है। उनके बाद आप को बुलाएंगे। श्री जुएल ओराम : ठीक है। अध्यक्ष महोदय : ज्यादा टाइम एग्जास्ट हो गया, आप सीनियर मैम्बर हैं, थोड़े टाइम में बोलिये, प्लीज़। श्री लाल मुनी चौबेथोड़ा टाइम मुझे चाहिए था। मैं बिहारी नहीं हूं, उनका एक दोहा है: 17.00 hrs. 

            I would like to make one point quite clear. From the very beginning, from the morning of 12th December, at every stage, whatever steps were taken or even before taking, whatever steps were contemplated, you were good enough to share your ideas and thoughts with the leaders of all the political parties, including me. Therefore, it would be unfair on anyone of us to point out that a decision was taken by the Speaker. Somebody may raise the question whether the decision was correct or incorrect. I am not going into the merit of that. But the decisions were taken in consultation with the leaders. I remember correctly – if I am incorrect, somebody may correct me – that we even discussed as to how much time will be given to the persons concerned to give explanation. Some suggestions were made to the effect that we should ask them to give their explanation today itself, right now. It was suggested that we should telephone them and get the explanation from them. But we suggested that at least 24 hours time should be given to them because some of them may not be readily available here and so we should contact them over phone. It was decided that if a person is not available, a communication should be sent to him and a certain time was fixed for getting explanation from them. After the explanations were received from the concerned hon. Members, the Committee started its work. All of us are experienced in the functioning of committees. For functioning of committees, certain procedures have been laid down in the Rules. For ad-hoc committees like this, either you determine the Terms of Reference or the committee or you allow the committee to determine its own procedure, as you did in this instant case. The Committee evolved its own procedure and as per that procedure they conducted the business. It could have been raised at that point of time saying that the whole matter appears to be a gross breach of privilege of the House, that it is contempt of the House and so let the matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. Nobody could have prevented it. It could have been done at that very stage. Sir, I am again saying that all of us felt that an atmosphere has been created where the whole institution and its credibility is being challenged and as people belonging to the institution we should try to do something to repair the damage as fast as possible – I am repeating, as fast as possible. Therefore, it was not correct to say that the Committee did it so fast and not much time was given. But, yes, we did not prescribe in which way they would do the work. Sir, you may recollect that even an hon. Member from that side and many Members from this side said: “No, we would like to suspend all business and let us discuss the issue right now.” That was the demand made on the floor of the House, but you tactfully carried on the business of the House. Therefore, this has to be kept in view. In hindsight we may think about that. After all, 10 days have passed. The mood on that day was that quite a few of the hon. Members wanted to discuss the issue on the floor of the House. Today we are in a better position. We have a report. Some of our colleagues had interaction with them and got their views. I am pointing it out, even taking the risk of repetition, that we did not follow the procedure of criminal jurisprudence, Criminal Procedure Code was not the guideline. We applied our common sense, our sense of natural justice and on the basis of that, taking the cue from the Mudgal matter and also the precedent which happened in the case of privilege. Sir, during the debate which took place on the floor of this House, one hon. Member was looking at various articles of the Constitution. In the articles of the Constitution, expulsion of Members has not been mentioned, but in the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business, there is a provision[k68] . That [r69] provision is that if the House comes to the conclusion that somebody is responsible for bringing disrepute to the House by his or her conduct, the House can take the decision. It is for the House.  Whatever decision you want to take, you can take.  This is not a party matter.  There is no question of any party’s interest or non-interest because collectively we thought that we must take certain steps, which will restore the dignity of the House. Yes, there will be implications, there may be implications.  Every action has its own reaction.  But that does not prevent us from taking any action.  What the judiciary will do, what the outside people will do are all matters of conjuncture.  But within the framework of the rules, within the framework of the practice and the precedent, I must compliment that whatever the Committee has done, the Committee has done a good job within the limited time and constraints available to them. I would not like to prolong my observation, Mr. Speaker Sir, but I would like to comment on one point.  All the speakers, who spoke today, may have differences about procedure.  They may have difference about the action, at what point of time will have to be taken, but none of the hon. Members, who have participated, said that action should not be taken.  There may be differences and those differences may be procedural.  But here I must, most respectfully submit and request the hon. Members, to remember a few lines of wasteland from T.S. Eliot 

  “shape without form, shade without colour, paralysed force, gesture without motion.” - let us not stand on farm alone. Let us not go to the format, let us not go to the form, let us go to the substance, let once again this House assert its right and try to vindicate the prestige, honour and dignity of the sovereign Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Speaker Sir. MR. SPEAKER: Now, I will put the Amendment moved by Prof. Vijay Kumar Malhotra to the vote of the House. The question is : (At this stage, Shri L.K. Advani and some other 

hon. Members left the House.) 

  

MR. SPEAKER: Nothing else will be recorded. (Interruptions)* 

MR. SPEAKER: Let us respect each other.  What is this? … (Interruptions) SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY : We will not be a party to these things.  It is because it is a sensitive matter and again there is a question of corruption, the House should be unanimous. The House should not be divided. But, it seems that the House is divided. … (Interruptions) MR. SPEAKER: Please.  You have a right to take your decision. … (Interruptions) SHRI BRAJA KISHORE TRIPATHY : The House is divided.  We cannot be a party to it.  So, we are abstaining from the voting.  We cannot support it.  We are boycotting the division of the House.  We cannot be a party to these things.  It is because the House is divided, we cannot support the motion … (Interruptions) 17.23 hrs . (At this stage, Shri Braja Kishore Tripathy and some other 

 

hon. Members left the House.) 

*Not Recorded. MR. SPEAKER: I shall now put the motion moved by Shri Pranab Mukherjee to the vote of the House. The question is :