Mrs. KiranSibal, Member

Argued by:- The instant appeal has been filed by the appellant/opposite

party against the impugned order dated 11.04.2022 passed by District

Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Amritsar (in short, "the

District Commission"), whereby the complaint filed by complainant

against opposite party (in short 'OP'), under Section 35 , 36 & 38 of the FA No.507 of 2022 2 Consumer Protection Act, 2019 , was allowed and the following relief

has been granted: 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the parties

will be referred, as have been arrayed before the District Commission. 3. Brief facts for the disposal of the appeal are that the

complainant was having a saving bank account bearing No.361190067

with the OP since long. On 26.08.2021, the complainant received two

debit messages in her account for an amount of Rs.50,000/- and

25,000/- respectively and finding suspicion about the entries, she on the

very next day contacted the OP, where she came to know that an

amount of Rs.65,000/- and Rs.25,000/- was also debited from her

saving bank account. The complainant promptly filed a complaint with

the police authorities on 27.08.2021 and a complaint was also lodged

with the OP on the same date. The complainant further stated that all

such transactions, which took place on 26.08.2021, were described as

NEFT transactions, whereas she did not transact any amount to

anybody else. She neither initiated any such transaction nor she

received any OTP on her registered mobile number, which was

mandatory to be issued by the OP on each and every transaction of FA No.507 of 2022 3 such nature for its authentication. Alleging deliberate negligence on the

part of the OP, the complainant filed consumer complaint before the

District Commission and sought directions against the OP to refund the

amount of Rs.1,65,000/- along with interest and further to pay

compensation to the tune of Rs.2,00,000/- for causing mental agony

and harassment to the complainant and Rs.25,000/- as cost of

litigation. 4. Upon notice, OP appeared and filed written version, vide

which it raised preliminary objections, which are not required to be

reproduced here for the sake of brevity. On merits, OP stated that Debit

Card bearing No.4280900000008902 linked with the saving bank

account in question was issued in complainant's name and she also

registered herself for online banking using her registered Mobile

No.9855794777 and email Id: [email protected] , for which she

herself chose her confidential credentials such as ID and Password/PIN

etc. The OP further stated that as a matter of policy, neither it nor any

other banking institution asks for such confidential information/detail

from any of its account holders. Whenever, any transaction is prompted

using any confidential information, an OTP/PIN etc. is sent to the

registered mobile number or email if so registered by the account

holder. Further, such transaction succeeds only when the OTP/PIN is

shared with system prompting the transaction and without sharing the

OTP/PIN transaction is not completed. On receiving a letter dated

27.08.2021 from the complainant alleging four unauthorized debit

entries, it conducted an internal investigation and found that the FA No.507 of 2022 4 customer has compromised confidential credentials at her end. As per

investigation, out of these four disputed transactions, three were done

through mobile banking/net banking and one was through debit card. All

these transactions are secure transactions & OTP for these

transactions were duly sent on customer's registered mobile number.

These transactions would not be possible without entering personal

confidential data only known to customer or person with whom such

information has been shared by customer. The concerned team of the

OP conducted the investigation of each transaction separately and

found that the transactions took place at the instance of the

complainant. The transactions amounting to Rs.1,00,000/- were

permitted only after authentication by means of a password/PIN etc

and the customer shall be solely responsible for maintaining secrecy of

his/her account details and user ID, password, access code and other

confidential details. One of the transaction amounting to Rs.65,000/-

has been done by using debit card number verified by Visa (VBV)

transaction mode. The usage of debit card online requires various

mandatory details which makes the transactions fully secured. Since,

the transactions have happened after sharing the personal debit card

credentials, the OP could not raise charge back for these cases. There

was no deficiency in service on the part of the OP. After denying the

other averments made in the complaint, the OP prayed for dismissal of

the complaint. 5. The parties led there evidence in respect of their respective

contentions before the District Commission The District Commission FA No.507 of 2022 5 after going through the record and hearing learned counsel for the

parties, accepted the complaint of the complainant, vide impugned

order. Aggrieved with the same this appeal has been filed by the

appellant/OP. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have

also gone through the written arguments submitted by them and record

of the case. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant vehemently contended

that the impugned order passed by the District Commission is

erroneous, bad in law and contrary to the true and established facts of

the case. The District Commission has failed to appreciate the fact that

there is no manual intervention of the appellant, while the transactions

were initiated and processed by the respondent herself. The District

Commission has further failed to consider that as per process for any

online transaction initiated by the customer, on initiation of the same

and for the transfer to take place, an OTP is sent to the registered

mobile number and email address of the customer and only upon

inputting the said details the transaction is succeeded. The credentials

were compromised by the respondent herself. The District Commission

has simply ignored the strong documentary evidence placed on record

by the appellant before it. The impugned order is in utter violation

towards the essence of the circular of the RBI dated 06.07.2017, para

No.7 (Limited Liability of the Customer). The learned counsel further

argued on the similar lines as stated in the written reply and prayed for

acceptance of the present appeal by setting aside the impugned order. FA No.507 of 2022 6 8. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the

respondent/complainant has argued that the impugned order passed by

the District Commission does not suffer from any infirmity and has laid

down the correct position of law. The impugned order is well reasoned

and is liable to be upheld. The learned counsel further argued that the

District Commission has rightly placed reliance to the circular dated

06.07.2017 issued by the Reserve Bank of India to all commercial

banks. The learned counsel further argued on the similar lines as stated

in the complaint and prayed for dismissal of the present appeal. 9. We have given thoughtful consideration to the contentions

raised by the learned counsel for the parties and also gone through the

record of the case. 10. The admitted facts of the case are that the complainant is

having a saving bank account bearing No.361190067 with the appellant

bank/OP. It is also not in dispute that a total amount of Rs.1,65,000/-

was deducted from the said saving bank account of the complainant,

vide four transactions i.e. three transactions were done through online

banking and one through debit card. The complainant alleged that she

neither initiated any such transaction and nor she received any OTP on

her registered mobile number, which was mandatory to be issued by

the OP on each and every transaction of such nature for its

authentication. Alleging deficiency in service on the part of the OP, the

complainant filed consumer complaint before the District Commission,

which was accepted against the appellant, vide impugned order. FA No.507 of 2022 7 Aggrieved by the impugned order the appellant has filed the present

appeal. 11. The grievance of the appellant is that District Commission

has failed to appreciate the fact that there is no manual intervention of

the appellant, while the transactions were initiated and processed by

the respondent herself by compromising the credentials. The District

Commission has simply ignored the strong documentary evidence

placed on record by the appellant before it. On the other hand, the

case of the respondent/complainant is that she neither initiated any

such transaction and nor she received any OTP on her registered

mobile number, which was mandatory to be issued by the OP on each

and every transaction of such nature for its authentication. The District

Commission had allowed the complaint, vide impugned order, against

the appellant by relying upon the Circular dated 06.07.2017 issued by

the Reserve Bank of India regarding reversal of erroneous debits

arising from fraudulent or other transactions and held that the appellant

was negligent in service. 12. Now, the only question that arises for adjudication before us

is whether there is any fault/negligence on the part of the appellant for

the online deductions of said amount from the saving bank account of

complainant or not? To determine this controversy, we have perused

the entire evidence and pleadings on record. A perusal of letter dated

27.08.2021, Ex. C-1, shows that the respondent/complainant lodged a

complaint with the appellant/OP regarding four online fraudulent

transactions which got deducted from her saving bank account on FA No.507 of 2022 8 26.08.2021, causing a loss of Rs.1,65,000/- to the

respondent/complainant. Further from the perusal of letter dated

27.08.2021, Ex.C-2, shows that the complainant also lodged a

complaint to the police authority alleging that she was robbed by online

theft. The police authorities, vide Ex. C-3, lodged the complaint vide

Unique ID No.2121602 dated 27.08.2021 and marked the same to ACP

Cyber Crime Amritsar City. The appellant/OP in its defence has

specifically stated that after receiving the complaint dated 27.08.2021,

Ex.C-1, regarding the alleged transactions, it investigated the matter

and the concerned team, after conducting the investigation of each

transactions separately, found that the transactions took place at the

instance of the respondent/complainant. In support of its version, the

appellant relied upon the detailed report, Ex.OP-4. A perusal of the said

report shows that the mobile No.9855794777 and

email: [email protected] were duly registered with the Saving

Bank Account of the respondent/complainant. It has not been disputed

by the respondent/complainant that the said mobile number and email

does not belong to her. Further from the perusal of "IMPS Multiple RRN

Report" mentioned in Ex.OP-4, shows that on 26.08.2021 at 8:35:25

PM an amount of Rs.25,000/- was credited in the account of

beneficiary namely 'Munish Soni'; at 8:53:55 PM amount of Rs.50,000/-

was again credited in the another account of beneficiary namely

'Munish Soni' and at 9:04:55 PM and amount of Rs.25,000/- was

credited in the account of beneficiary namely 'Dharmender Ram'.

Further under the heading "Beneficiary Registration Details' it has been

mentioned that said beneficiaries were created on 26.08.2021 and the FA No.507 of 2022 9 time mentioned in the report is 21:04:25 and 20:33:30. As per said

report Ex.OP-4, it has also been established that on receipt of

beneficiary Registration request, the OP had sent an OTP on the

registered mobile number as well as email of the

respondent/complainant for activating the beneficiary. The said

beneficiaries could not be added without entering the credentials and

thereafter approving the same at the instance of the account holder.

Even the appellant/OP bank had sent OTP on the registered Mobile

number and email before transfer of the amount through Net Banking.

The confidential information was only available with the

respondent/complainant unless she compromised or shared the same

with a third party. It is pertinent to mention here that the appellant/Bank,

after receiving the complaint from the respondent/complainant, has

promptly responded and after thorough investigation duly informed the

respondent/complainant, vide email dated 07.09.2021, Ex.OP-6, the

relevant part of the same is reproduced as under:- The usage of debit card online requires various mandatory
 details which makes the transaction fully secured. Since the
 transaction have happened after sharing the card credentials,
 we cannot raise charge back for these cases. In the light of recent RBI circular dated 6th July 2017
 DBR.No.Leg. BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18, we would like to inform
 you that we are unable to compensate you for this case; as
 here confidential data has been compromised without which
 transaction cannot be executed." The data placed on record by the appellant/OP vide Ex.OP-4, is a

system generated data and can safely be relied upon. The District

Commission has overlooked the said data provided by the appellant

before it, merely on the ground that no affidavit has been filed to prove

the same. It has been duly established on record by the appellant/OP

that the alleged transactions would not be possible without entering

personal confidential data only known to respondent/complainant or the

person with whom such information has been shared by her. Hence, we

are of the considered view that the respondent/complainant has

suffered loss of the amount in question due to her own negligence and

there is no fault or negligence on the part of the appellant. 13. The appellant has placed reliance upon the Circular

DBR.No.Leg.BC. 78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017 issued by the FA No.507 of 2022 11 Reserve Bank of India regarding limiting liability of Customers in

Unauthorized Electric Banking Transactions. The relevant clauses are

reproduced as under:- Any loss occurring after the reporting of the
 unauthorised transaction shall be borne by the bank. (ii) In cases where the responsibility for the
 unauthorised electronic banking transaction lies neither
 with the bank nor with the customer, but lies elsewhere
 in the system and when there is a delay (of four to
 seven working days after receiving the communication
 from the bank) on the RBI,DBR,CO - 4 - continuation
 sheet part of the customer in notifying the bank of such
 a transaction, the per transaction liability of the
 customer shall be limited to the transaction value or the
 amount mentioned in Table 1, whichever is lower."
Now, in view of the above said circular, we would like to discuss that

whether in the present case there is liability of the Customer or Bank?

The District Commission while allowing the complaint filed by the FA No.507 of 2022 12 respondent/complainant has relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble

National Commission, in the case of " HDFC Bank Limited Vs. Jesna

Jose " in Revision Petition No.3333 of 2013, wherein the Hon'ble

National Commission after relying upon Clause 6 of the above said

circular, has held the Bank liable to make good the loss of the

complainant. However, in the present case, since, the transactions in

question had taken place due to sharing of confidential credentials

which were duly sent on the registered Mobile and email address of the

respondent/complainant, as discussed above, therefore only Clause 7(i)

of the above said circular is applicable that " in cases where the loss

is due to negligence by a customer, such as where he has shared

the payment credentials, the customer will bear the entire loss

until he reports the unauthorised transaction to the bank". The

District Commission has overlooked the above said clause 7(i) of the

Circular and wrongly allowed the complaint against the appellant.

Hence, as per clause 7(i) the liability is of the complainant and she shall

bear the entire loss as she shared the payment credentials and there is

negligence on her own part. 14. Sequel to our above discussion, we allow the appeal of the

appellant and the impugned order of the District Commission is hereby

set aside. 15. The appellant had deposited a sum of Rs.86,500/- at the

time of filing of the appeal. This amount alongwith interest, which has

accrued thereon, if any, shall be remitted by the registry to the FA No.507 of 2022 13 appellant/OP by way of crossed cheque/demand draft after the expiry of

limitation period in accordance with law. 16. The appeal could not be decided within the stipulated period

due to heavy pendency of Court cases. (H.P.S. MAHAL)
 PRESIDING JUDICIAL MEMBER

 (KIRAN SIBAL)
 MEMBER

August 14, 2024
(Dv)