1. Proceedings in this matter have been initiated based on media

report of death of nine persons (later the number of deaths has risen

to 13 and nine injured have been identified) on account of a factory

blast at Ahemdabad on 04.11.2020. The incident, as reported, is as

follows:- Dhruv Chopra (28), the owner of Kanika Texo Fab company, said, "I
 was at the parking spot near my godown when I heard a huge blast
 around 11:30 am. For a few minutes, I lost all my senses and
 somehow I called 108 number for the ambulance. Later my workers
 made calls to police and fire department. I have 30 workers in my
 godown and 28 have been accounted for. Two are still missing and I
 hope they are rescued safely." 2. The matter was considered on 11.11.2020 after serving advance

notice to the CPC B, the Gujarat State PCB, District Magistrate,

Ahmedabad, Director of Industrial Safety, Ahmedabad and M/s Sahil

Enterprises Chemical Boiler Factory, Pirana-Riplaj Road,

Ahmedabad. It was observed: a) The Company may deposit an amount of Rs.25 crores,
 minus the statutory compensation/ex gratia payments
 already made to the victims, if any, with the District
 Magistrate, Bharuch within 10 days from today. The amount may be disbursed by the District Magistrate by
 making disbursement plan in the manner already indicated
 above (Para 6). Disbursement plan may consider safeguards 3 to ensure that amount reaches the beneficiaries and is not
 misappropriated by any intermediary. b) We constitute a 6-member Committee comprising: 13. This order is without prejudice to any criminal or other
 statutory proceedings in accordance with law. 14. Since this tragedy follows so close on the heels of a similar
 one (in Vizag), it may be necessary to ensure that risk
 studies are duly undertaken by all industries in the country
 dealing with the hazardous chemicals and their on-site and
 off-site plans are operational and mock drills are carried out
 for testing the same. The State PCBs, concerned District
 Magistrates, CIFs of the Industries Departments may
 ensure the same and the nodal agency for the purpose will
 be the State PCBs, which may be monitored by the CPC B in
 an appropriate manner. 15. Since a direction has already been issued to the MoEF&CC
 to constitute an Expert Committee on the subject of
 revamping the monitoring mechanism to check and prevent
 violation of environmental norms and occurrence of such
 incidents in future particularly in establishments dealing
 with hazardous chemicals and a special drive may be
 initiated, no separate direction is necessary but this
 incident may also be kept in mind by the Expert Committee
 constituted in pursuance of order dated 01.06.2020." 8. The Tribunal also fixed interim compensation as follows:- 9. The present matter also needs to be dealt with on same
pattern. While constituting a fact-finding Committee,
directions have to be issued for interim compensation and
remedial action by the statutory authorities. We assess the
interim compensation for death at Rs. 15 lacs each (taking
into account multiplier of around 16 and loss of earning of
about one lac a year, apart from conventional sums) and for
injuries of persons hospitalized at Rs. 5 lac per person. The
interim compensation is the liability first of the owner of
the unit and on his failure of the State. The amount is to be
disbursed to ensure that it reaches the victim. Disbursement
is to be made by the District Magistrate by making an
appropriate plan in association with the Legal Services
Authority. 10. Accordingly, we direct: If any member is unable to visit physically, he may be
 associated online with the permission of the Chairman. The Committee may provide opportunity of being heard
 to the Company as well as any other member of the
 public. A copy of the report may be uploaded on the website of
 the CPC B and also provided to the Company for its
 response. e) It will be open to the concerned authorities to act on the
 recommendations of the Committee to the extent the
 authorities find viable in exercise of their statutory powers
 pending further orders of this Tribunal. f) The Committee may as far as possible make final
 quantification of compensation and also prepare a
 restoration plan in association with the District Magistrate,
 Ahmedabad. For the restoration plan, the nodal agency
 will be the representative of MoEF&CC. g) The Chief Secretary, Gujarat may identify and take
 appropriate action against persons responsible for failure
 of law in permitting the Company to operate without
 statutory clearances within two months and give a report
 to this Tribunal. h) Before recommencing any operations, the owner may bring
 it to the notice of this Tribunal, so that it can be ensured
 that there is no violation of statutory provisions and safety
 measures. 11. This order is without prejudice to any criminal or other
 statutory proceedings in accordance with law. Since this
 tragedy follows so close on the heels of a similar one, it may
 be necessary to ensure that risk studies are duly
 undertaken by the State authorities." 3. Accordingly, the six-member joint Committee has filed its report on

28.01.2021. The report shows that the godown in question was being

operated, on an agriculture land, in violation of revenue, municipal and

environment law. The construction was contrary to the norms of

constructions for safety and Municipal law requirement. The activity was

hazardous without compliance of statutory safeguards. There was no

'onsite' and 'offsite' emergency plans, holding of mock drills and

conducting of safety audits as per 1989 Rules. There is also no effective 8 functioning of State Crises Group and District Crises Group in

accordance with 1996 Rules. The Revenue Authorities, District

Administration, Industries Department as well as the Environment

Department of Gujarat failed to check the illegalities and it is only after

order of this Tribunal that penalty of Rs. 23 lakhs was imposed for

violation of land use. Thus, the Committee has recommended that State

is vicariously liable even tough primary liability of the operator of the

godown remains. The victims are required to be paid compensation. Safety protocols are required to be followed and reviewed at other

locations also. The activity was hazardous without compliance of

statutory Relevant extracts from the report are as follows: Shri Hetal Girishbhai Sutariya was doing chemical
 trading and manufacturing activity of Methyl Ethyl Ketone
 Peroxide (MEKP) with the use of raw materials-Methyl Ethyl
 Ketone, Hydrogen Peroxide, Dimethyl Phthalate and Di
 Ethyl Glycol. Previous day of incidence (on 03.11.2020),
 manufacturing of Methyl Ethyl Ketone Peroxide is carried
 out by mixing and stirring using glass flasks. Above said
 activity was carried out in the rented Godown No 12 with
 his working partner named Mr. Mustufa Alubhai Saiyad
 who died in this incident. Size of Godown is 50 feet x 25 feet as per statement of the owner
 of M/s Sahil Enterprise, which is RCC Structure and having
 adjacent Godowns on the south side and north side of the similar
 nature. The Godowns did not have any ventilation window
 except the door (@ 3 feet x 2.7 feet size) in the front. xxx.....................xxx........................xxx..............  Various Government Agencies rushed to the incident site
 and started their respective work. Government agencies
 namely Fire & Emergency Service, Ahmedabad Municipal
 Corporation (AMC), Department, Police Department,
 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Directorate
 Industrial Safety & Health (DISH), Gujarat Pollution Control
 Board (GPCB), Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) etc.

  Due to blast which resulted into collapse of godowns
 (slab/beams/columns/walls)-  Mr. Mustufa Alubhai Saiyad working with Shri
 Sutariya- M/s Sahil Enterprise, Godown No. 12)
 died whose activity resulted in an explosion.
  8 persons died and 4 persons injured who were working
 in adjacent godowns (A-11, A-10, C-1) in Nanubhai
 Estate (shed No A-4 to A-11 shed no C-1 to C-3 and Shed
 no B-1 to B-6) which is north, north-west direction of
 godown no-12 where explosion occurred). These
 godowns are occupied by M/s Kanika TexoFab., for
 manual saree, punjabi suits, dresses packing. These
 godowns are taken on rent from Shri Nanubhai
 Bharwad. There were a total of 24 persons working for
 packing on the day of the incident.  3 persons were injured when Texaco Synthetics Ltd.
 was running in Godowns no 8, 9 & 10, Revakaka estate
 which are opposite to godown No. 12 in west direction.
 Total 10 persons were working for cloth cutting and
 packaging.  Other 03 persons died and 02 persons injured from H.K.
 Traders which are in Godown no. 10 in the south
 direction adjacent to Godown no. 11 (Ankur Fab Pvt Ltd),
 after Godown No. 12 (M/s Sahil Enterprise).  Total 12 persons died and 10 persons injured on
 04.11.2020. Subsequently, one person succumbed
 to injuries on 13.11.2020 and till date a total 13
 persons (8 Male, 5 Female) died and 09 persons (6
 Male, 3 Female) injured.  Details of the injured, deceased persons from different
 units are summarized in following table-  Due to leakage or mishandling of chemicals in the
 storage of the hazardous chemicals (in the assembly
 as well as other drums having flammable and
 explosive chemicals), as the premises was without
 ventilation, vapour cloud might have been formed
 and blast occurred on account of either spark of
 electricity or otherwise. The possibility cannot be
 ruled out for the blast due to the fall of
 corboys/drums containing MEKP during parcel
 preparation, rearrangement of drums, mixing of
 Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) with MEKP instead of
 Diethyl Glycol (DEG) without any cooling 11 arrangement outside the mixing assembly. Three
 craters were observed at the site. Had the premises
 been with adequate ventilation, in all probability,
 the incident could have been avoided. The experts reports (Annexure-9 & 12) are in detail
 indicated chemicals, reaction of chemicals, analysis of data
 for purchase, production, sale, overpressure calculations,
 effect of overpressure due to blast at different distance, on
 building structure, effect of highly flammable chemicals as
 well as explosive chemicals, vapour cloud explosion, extent
 of damage, probable reasons etc.

5.2 CAUSES OF FAILURES AND PERSONS AND
AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE THEREOF (i) The Owner of the Unit M/s Sahil Enterprise - Shri
 Sutariya, without obtaining permission from
 competent authority and without taking any
 precaution was storing and handling hazardous
 chemicals. In view of the nature of chemicals, it
 is to be presumed that he had knowledge about
 the process and preservation of the chemicals.
 The Committee members have seen the remaining
 godowns and all construction are substandard in
 nature. Essentially, the building was erected for
 storage of material only which need not have
 safety switches known as spark free switches or
 Spark Shield Switches and sockets used in
 industries. This indicates that he has not taken
 precautions during the activities and he has not
 taken on rent a premises suitable for the
 manufacturing hazardous chemicals. Clandestinely as he was doing the work without
 conveying the authorities in a space unfit for
 storage and manufacturing purposes, he cannot
 escape from his liability to make good to the
 people who have suffered. (ii) That the land which was agricultural land could
 not have been used for any other purpose without
 obtaining the permission from the Collector and
 payment of the conversion charges. Even for the
 sake of argument, the plot having been included in
 the town planning scheme, the occupier of the
 land can use the land for the bonafide industrial
 purpose which is permissible, but that is only
 after payment of conversion tax leviable under
 Section 67-A is paid. The agriculturalist being
 aware that if the permission is taken for use of
 the land for non-agricultural purposes, he will
 have to pay the handsome amount to the 12 government for conversion etc. Despite erecting a
 number of godowns and collecting rents from the
 tenants, the landowner has continued to show the
 land as agricultural land in the revenue record.
 This is not merely an illegality but is a fraud with
 the statute and therefore, it must be taken very
 seriously. Even, the office of the collector was
 absolutely careless, negligent and therefore,
 responsible in allowing the erection of Godown
 and use of the same contrary to the provisions of
 law. How is it possible that for a number of years
 the farmer has not approached the revenue
 officer, namely the Talati for payment of revenue
 and copies of revenue records? Is it possible to
 believe that the Talati would not know about the
 construction carried out? In view of development
 not only on the land in question but surrounding
 lands were seen with construction and no
 cultivation was seen. The revenue officers are
 required to be presumed that they were aware
 about the construction and yet recorded as
 agricultural land in revenue records which are
 public documents. It appears that the office of the
 collector issued notice on 11.11.2020 for illegal
 construction made in 2000-2001 only after the
 blast (04.11.2020) to show that the office of the
 Collector has taken action and also to avoid
 responsibility. (iii) After the erection of the Godown, when the area merged
 in the city limits of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation,
 the staff of the AMC did not bother to find out the
 use of the premises and whether any permission
 was required or not to make use of the particular
 Godown. The law mandates to have permission
 from the Commissioner, AMC to run the workshop
 or workplace with the use of energy, namely
 electricity or mechanical power or water. Thus, to
 some extent the staff of the AMC is also
 responsible. (iv) The duty of the DISH which is discussed in detail
 in earlier part clearly indicates that the officers
 did not make any enquiry. 5.3 EXTENT OF DAMAGE TO LIFE, HUMAN AND
NONHUMAN; PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT- INCLUDING WATER, SOIL, AIR; Due to accident (explosion followed by collapse of RCC structure
 (Slab/walls), 13 persons died and 09 persons got injured due to
 misdeed/illegal activity at M/s Sahil Enterprise at Godown No. 13 12, Revakaka Estate. The collector office has disbursed Rs. 4 lacs
each to the next of kin of deceased workers as ex-gratia
assistance from CM Relief Fund between 11.11.2020 to
21.11.2020 for 12 deceased persons and another deceased
person on 05.01.2021. Thus, total 52 lakhs disbursed to legal
heirs of deceased workers. In case of minor heirs of two
deceased persons the ex-gratia amount was disbursed as fixed
deposit in the savings accounts of minor heirs and legal
procedure to appoint guardians for minor heirs are in progress
after due consultation with the District Legal Service Authority.
Additionally monthly assistance of Rs. 3000 each to both minor
heirs has been sanctioned under Palak Mata Pita Yojana of
Gujarat Govt by District Authority. Interim compensation i.e. Rs. 15 lakhs to the deceased
persons and Rs. 5 lakhs to injured persons (as per
Hon'ble NGT order) is not disbursed till date. As indicated above, the amount as directed by the Hon'ble
Tribunal has not been paid to all concerned. The action taken
by District Administration including intimation to the owner of
godown and M/s Sahil Enterprise to deposit Rs.5.00 crore as
per order of Hon'ble NGT dated 11.11.2020 and steps taken to
identify assets of the owner of the unit and owner of godown
are provided in Annexure-28 to recover the amount in view of
the order that is made by the Hon'ble Tribunal by taking
appropriate actions (under the Land Revenue Code). District Administration has issued notice under Section-66 of
Land Revenue Code, 1879 to owner of Godown -Shri Revabhai
Bharwad & Pradeepbhai Alias Butabhai Bharwad) for using
agricultural land without permission and fine of Rs. 24,61,500
has been imposed as penalty. The committee has considered the matter with regard to the
compensation to the heirs of the victims (deceased persons) and
has submitted the details in Annexure-27. As directed by the
Hon'ble Tribunal, the Committee has assessed the
compensation to be paid to the next of kin of the deceased. On account of non-receipt of disability certificate, the committee
could not calculate the compensation. The members of the
committee on receipt of the disability certificate will submit the
entitlement of the persons who sustained grievous hurt.
According to the latest information, 03 persons sustained
grievous hurt and 06 persons sustained hurt and the committee
is of the view that all must be paid as per order made by the
Hon'ble Tribunal. There is nothing to indicate that any nonhuman sustained an
injury or even died. So far as the damage to the environment on account of
 wastewater, air pollution and soil are concerned, the committee
 is of the opinion that no damage has been caused. The damage has been caused to the adjacent godowns which
 were constructed illegally and the business running into these
 godowns not as per designated use godowns as AMC records. These properties are illegal/ unauthorized, the committee is not
 recommending for damage compensation caused to the property
 of the persons (other godowns/Businesses). 5.4 STEPS TO BE TAKEN FOR COMPENSATION OF VICTIMS
AND RESTITUTION OF THE DAMAGED PROPERTY AND
ENVIRONMENT, AND THE COST INVOLVED

 About the compensation to be paid to the next of kin of the
 deceased and the persons who sustained injuries and were
 hospitalised till today the benefits required to be extended as
 per order has not been extended. On account of providing relief
 to such people the amount of 4 lakh to the next of kin of the
 deceased was announced by the State Government and
 ultimately paid. It transpired that the owner of M/s Sahil
 Enterprise has not shown any interest in making any payment
 to the sufferers at his hands. As it happens in most of the cases
 that such people are not disclosing their real wealth and it
 becomes very difficult for the sufferers to recover. It seems
 that the person who has allowed his property which he
 constructed illegally for the use which is not permissible
 under the law should also not go unpunished and
 unescaped. So, for as the remaining payment to the
 sufferers is concern, Govt. should not wait till M/s Sahil
 Enterprise or its owner deposits the amount and should
 see that the amount is paid to the sufferers. So far the
 property is concerned the owner is the sufferer as he has
 lost the constructed godown illegally and not all. It may
 be a matter between the others who suffered on account
 of blast and except one who was running packing
 business of clothes /sarees/suits etc in adjoining
 godowns, none has lodged any claim. He was rented
 premises only for the purpose of storing the goods and
 not for appointing a contractor and through workers for
 carry on the business as packers. As indicated in the
 order in detail it is not possible to determine the loss
 suffered by him. In fact, his humble request was to
 recover workman compensation from M/s Sahil
 Enterprise. He should not be held liable to make the
 payment to deceased who were working in his godown.
 He stated that he is waiting to clear the debris for his
 claim from the insurance company. Looking to the
 present-day situation and the family members having
 lost bread earner, the government should make 15 immediate arrangements to make the payment to the
 persons as directed by Hon'ble Tribunal. The land was
 used illegally the Govt. can exercise the power under the
 Revenue code and by taking appropriate action should
 see that the appropriate action is taken. About the
 environmental damage we have found that no such
 damage is caused to the environment. xxx.....................xxx........................xxx.............. (The names of chemicals, effects of the chemicals, Sr No as per
 Part-II, Schedule-1 List of Hazardous and Toxic Chemicals,
 MSIHC Rule 1989)

Column 1 List of hazardous Characteristic
 (Sr. No) chemicals
 (Column 2)

004 Acetone An organic compound. It is a colourless, highly
 flammable and volatile liquid with a
 characteristic pungent odour. Keep away from
 heat/sparks/open flames/hot surfaces. 056 Benzene An organic chemical compound composed of six
 carbon atoms joined in a planar ring with one
 hydrogen atom attached to each

089 Propane Propane is one of a group of liquefied petroleum
 gases. It is a gas at standard temperature and
 pressure, but compressible to a transportable
 liquid. A by-product of natural gas processing and
 petroleum refining,

244 Ethanol An organic chemical compound volatile,
 flammable, colourless liquid with a slight
 characteristic odour. 247 Ethyl Acetate Ethyl acetate is the organic compound and is
 highly flammable 16 318 Hydrogen A chemical compound with the formula H2O2.,
 Peroxide has been used as a propellant in rocketry. It is
 used as an oxidizer, bleaching agent, and
 antiseptic. In the heat of a fire, it can produce: Butane Extremely flammable gas. May form explosive
 mixtures with air. Contains gas under pressure;
 may explode if heated. May displace oxygen
 and cause rapid suffocation. *Although Hydrogen Peroxide & Methyl Ethyl Ketone (MEK) are
 incompatible with each other, their reaction to make product-
 MEKP requires suitable conditions by maintaining temperature,
 addition of catalyst/chemical to control reaction. 15. FSL report specifically states that" Methyl ethyl ketone
 (flammable substance) and hydrogen peroxide (oxidizing
 substance) in the above samples can be said to be components
 of a volatile organic peroxide called methyl ethyl ketone
 peroxide. The material is capable of reacting extremely with an
 explosion at ambient temperature, which can cause a fire and
 an explosion. 16. For the final product Methyl Ethyl Ketone Peroxide, the
 occupier gave a statement that he used (1) Hydrogen Peroxide
 (Sr No.318) (2) Methyl Ethyl Ketone (3) Dimethyl Phthalate, (4)
 Di-ethyl glycol. However, the statement of storage of chemicals
 stored/used by the occupier does not disclose the presence of
 other hazardous chemicals. The FSL found the presence of
 eight hazardous chemicals referred to in the above
 paragraph. But, out of the hazardous chemicals
 indicated, the occupier only referred chemicals namely,
 (1) Hydrogen Peroxide ( Sr No.318) (2) Methyl Ethyl Ketone
 (3) Dimethyl Phthalate, (4) Di-ethyl glycol in the
 statement before the authorities. Thus, the person has
 not come out with the truth and therefore, he is
 unreliable. 17. The details, collected by ACP- Investigating officer,
Police Department, such as computerised two sheets showing
storage/usage/sale of raw materials and product, procedure
for checking active oxygen & hydrogen peroxide in Product-
(MEKP), answers to questions raised by committee members are
annexed herewith and collectively Mark Annexure-11. 18. During the procedure for checking active oxygen &
hydrogen peroxide in Product-(MEKP), there is use of (1)
Sulphuric acid, (Sr. No. 591); (2) Potassium iodide, (3) Potassium
Permanganate, (3) Hydrochloric acid, [ as per list item appears
as Hydrochloric acid (gas) at Sr. No. 313] (4) Ammonium Hepta
Molibladam. 19. Thus, the occupier was using hazardous chemicals
which were highly flammable and explosive. The data
sheets of all the chemicals stored in the Godown conveys
that the same should be kept under good ventilation.
This Godown had no ventilation at all (refer, Photographs
of adjoining godowns in Annexure-7). No incompatible
chemicals which are hazardous can be stored together in
the Godown. "Methyl Ethyl Ketone reacts violently with
strong oxidants and inorganic acids causing fire and
explosion hazard. Attacks some plastic. Incompatible
with chloroform, hydrogen peroxide, nitric acid,
potassium t-butoxide, and 2-propanol (conversion from
propane). Forms explosive mixture with air,

 HIGHLY FLAMMABLE: Easily ignited by heat, sparks or
 flames. For Public Safety in case of Fire, if a tank, rail car
 or tank truck is involved in a fire, ISOLATE for 800 meters
 (1/2 mile) in all directions; also, consider initial evacuation
 for 800 meters (1/2 mile) in all directions. Methyl Ethyl
 Ketone - Key Info (nih.gov)" Thus, the occupier of the
 Godown, used a small premise meant for storage of goods
 which was without ventilation for manufacturing Methyl
 Ethyl Ketone Peroxide which was not safe at all. A man of
 a common prudence will not store incompatible hazardous
 chemicals together as the same is dangerous. 20. Expert Member Prof Chinmay Ghoroi, IIT Gandhinagar,
forwarded the opinion in the subject matter which is in detail.
The report is annexed herewith and Mark Annexure-12. The
chemical Methyl Ethyl Ketone Peroxide was produced by
reacting MEK and Hydrogen Peroxide. The reaction is
exothermic which requires proper cooling arrangement
using circulating bath. MEK can quickly react with
oxidizing materials and cause fires. It is moderately
explosive requiring only a small flame or spark to cause
a vigorous reaction. Hydrogen peroxide is a highly
unstable strong oxidising liquid and can cause health
hazards. It undergoes potentially explosive thermal 18 decomposition under heat. MEKP is highly reactive and
unstable and decomposition is exothermic. It is sensitive
to shock and temperature. It gradually decomposes
during storage in sealed containers, leading to a large
pressure build-up and subsequent explosion. MEKP is
explosive material and very well known for various
devastating accidents in several countries including
India. It can undergo spontaneous ignition or
decomposition into flammable vapours. Root causes of
the accidents are wrongdoing, to rapid dosing,
operational error and cooling failure. The examples are
given as to how deadly it has affected human beings
causing deaths and injuries. Between 1953-2019 and 7
countries in all 43 Explosions Took Place including 6
incidents in India. About 295 persons sustained injuries
and 112 persons died including 17 in India. This
indicates that the chemical is not only hazardous but
reacts vigorously. In the present case even though in
absence of threshold quantity of hazardous chemical, 13
persons died and 9 sustained injuries apart from loss of
property. The details of 7 incidents on account of MEKP
are also indicated in a separate table. After taking into
consideration various aspects namely, the chemicals, the
area, the process, storage etc. considering the
approximate storage of different chemicals and its
corresponding energy is pointed out and the total energy
store comes to 2.0947x 109 J. The effect of the pressure
has been explained in detail both by Shri Chinmay
Ghoroi, IIT Gandhinagar and Shri Santosh Ghuge, NEERI,
Nagpur in their reports. As pointed out by shri Santosh,
over pressure having intensity of 0.06 bar can shutter
the glass windows. Overpressure of 0.3 bar would have
an effect up to 167 m and can cause collapse of a roof
and walls. In this case blast took place in a close
Godown having no ventilation which would obviously
generate more effective pressure leading to blowing of
roof and walls, not only of the Godown where blast took
place but damaging adjoining Godown also heavily 21. From the report submitted by Dr. Amir Khan, Expert
Member from NIDM, New Delhi, it is clear that on the
information available through government sources (or in public
domain through newspapers etc.), prime facie it seems that M/s
Sahil Enterprise was operating in an unauthorized area
without a proper license to operate such a type of
factory. No safety audit of the factory from HAZCHEM
industries point was done. There is no implementation of
building bye-laws and no provision of fulfilment of
building code requirements for construction of buildings
in this locality. In absence of proper architectural and
engineering design, it seems the godown number 12,
where M/s Sahil Enterprise was located, had no good 19 quality of construction. It is clear that the building of
godown number 12 had not been designed for specific use
of a chemical factory with risk of blast, proper
ventilation, appropriate number of exits etc. There is a
report annexed herewith Mark Annexure-13 from expert
member Dr Amir Khan which states that "It seems there
were no on-site/off-site protocols for management of
emergencies (due to HAZCHEM) established in the locality
in advance. It seems there is no fire control mechanism
available at site or in the vicinity of the incident
/accident site. No information is available about the skill set
(education/training) in handling or management of
HAZCHEM of the workers of the factory. It seems there
were no or limited community awareness programmes/
campaigns on management of hazardous industries
related issues (like do's and don'ts) conducted in the
locality (in the vicinity or in the industrial estate) by any
of government or private agencies or NGO etc.

There should be clarity on the role played by the SDMA/DDMA.
These agencies have to be more responsible in managing the
prevention of such incidents in future. As per the Chemical
Accidents (Emergency, Planning, Preparedness, Response)
Rules, 1996, brought out under the Environment Protection Act 1986, it is mandatory to have State Crisis Group (SCG) and
District Crisis Group (DCG) to help the State Disaster
Management Authority (SDMA) and District Disaster
Management Authority (DDMA) under the Disaster Management
Act, 2005 in advisory roles to deal with Chemical Disaster
Management (CDM). Such Groups proactively engaged in
mitigating the impacts of such incidents in future. Regular
checks on unauthorised development of HAZCHEM industries
need to be maintained. Efforts need to be made to control
development of such industries in unauthorised developed
areas in the state. Following information may be of help

 Strategy for Community Awareness on Hazardous Materials
 (Annexure 1) with the report marked as Annexure-13

 Important Roles and Responsibilities of Various Stakeholders
 (Annexure 2) with the report marked as Annexure-13 22. National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) of the
Government of India, pointed out in its report that "the
authorities have failed to digest the report where it is
specifically conveyed that there is need to have a continuous
reengineering system to improve and upgrade. Necessary
provisions need to be enacted for fail-safe safety
measures and there is an urgent need of critical
evaluation and review pertaining to simultaneous 20 storage of non-compatible hazardous and toxic. Despite
 what of literature available on the Internet with regard to
 compatible and incompatible hazardous and toxic, yet people
 are ignoring the caution and even today continue to restore
 such hazardous and toxic chemicals together without bothering
 the dangers. 23. It must be noted that the occupier was using hazardous
 chemicals and the effluent/residue generated was required to
 be treated/disposed of. Where the occupier was treating the
 effluent was not known. However, the police found a soak pit
 hence, they dug the place of the soak pit from where samples
 were collected by the Police and FSL examined the same. The
 report of FSL dated 07/12/2020 is marked as Annexure-10.
 The material collected on examination did not disclose the
 presence of hazardous chemicals. Police did this under a
 bonafide belief that the occupier might be discharging the
 generated effluent through the soak pit. xxx.....................xxx........................xxx.............. RESTRICTION/REGULATION OF STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS
CHEMICALS WITHIN THE LOCAL LIMITS OF THE CITY 28. Considering the building activities not limited for
 Industrial use but for other uses namely, industry, commerce,
 residence etc., the people may require assistance from the
 qualified persons so that building is erected according to
 requirement of building regulations. Section 372 of the Gujarat
 Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, (hereinafter referred as
 "the GPMC Act ") provides for a grant of licences to the Architects
 or the Engineers, the Structural Designers or the Plumbers and
 Clerk of works. With the assistance of the experts in the
 building industry, the plans are to be prepared for approval of
 the Corporation. The competent person being aware about the
 nature of the work to be carried out in the industry, and, the
 type of building with particular strength and size would be
 suggested by him and accordingly plan shall be prepared and
 submitted for approval. The plans are to be approved keeping in
 mind the other provisions contained in the GPMC Act by the
 competent authority. 29. Hazardous Chemicals can lead to contamination, fire,
 spills, explosion, gas release and toxic. Storing highly
 inflammable chemicals or explosive chemicals in an area which
 is not industrial is more dangerous to innocent people who may
 not be aware about the danger of hazardous chemicals. The
 persons who were working in the adjoining godowns died and
 sustained injuries. The present incident shows that for the
 explosion or blast it is not necessary that there should be
 "threshold quantity" as indicated in Rule 2(n) of the Chemical
 Rules. Therefore, a provision restricting the possession/storage 21 of hazardous Chemicals must be made with a requirement of
area and type of building. The area for storage must be
sufficiently ventilated as required with fire safety and other
safety devices. 30. Even according to General Development Control
Regulations effective from 18.05.2002 for permissible activities
in the General Industrial Zone, which does not permit obnoxious
and hazardous industrial activities. The Zone where the
godowns are situated falls in the category, "General Industrial
Zone". Thus, everyone was aware about the prohibitions to deal
with hazardous chemicals in this Zone. 31. Section 376 of the GPMC Act refers to trade licences and
other licences. The relevant provision is as here under: - 32. Section 376A of the GPMC Act empowers the Commissioner
to stop the use of premises where such use is dangerous or
causes nuisance. 33. The Schedule A to the GPMC Act , provides Rules. Chapter
XVIII provides rules for occupations for which licenses are
needed. Part 1 refers to the articles which shall not be kept
without a licence in or upon any premises. Part II refers to
articles which shall be kept without a licence, in or upon any
premises in quantities not exceeding at any one time and the
maximum quantities as indicated. Sulphur is referred to with
quantity 1/2 cwt. Part III refers to articles which shall be kept
without a licence for sale or for other than domestic use in or
upon any premises irrespective of the quantity at any one time
or in quantities exceeding at any time the maximum quantity
indicated in the part III. Part IV refers to trade or operations
connected with trade which shall not be carried on in or upon
any premises without a licence. 34. No Dynamite, blasting powder, Nitro-glycerine,
phosphorus, Gun-cotton and Fulminate of mercury shall
be kept without a licence in or upon any premises. Even
possession of sulphur is allowed to certain extent only.
One is not allowed to carry on certain business without
prior permission. 35. It is important to note that the legislature regulated and
prohibited the possession of certain articles. Reading the name
of the articles, it is clear that with a view to avoid the accidents
and for the safety of the people provisions are made. However,
looking at the fact that the incident took place within the limits
of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and that too in the
area not declared as an industrial zone, where one can store or
manufacture Hazardous chemicals. Therefore, it is necessary
that hazardous chemicals as indicated in clause (c) of Rule 2 of
Chemical Rules, which defines "Hazardous Chemicals" ought to
have been included in Part I of Chapter XVIII of schedule A of
the GPMC Act . If all the hazardous chemicals would have been
included in the aforesaid chapter for possession and use of the
same with the licence from the Commissioner, Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation, the use of the same could have been
restricted and such unwarranted incident could have been
avoided. Apart from other authorities, the Commissioner,
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, who is responsible
for looking after the City and the people of Ahmedabad,
must be made aware of keeping hazardous chemicals
within the limits of the city, to regulate the possession or
use of the same under a licence/permission. It may be
noted that there is no question of authorising the
manufacturing of any hazardous chemical. The
manufacturing activities of chemicals or activities of
manufacturing the articles with hazardous chemicals 23 cannot be allowed in a city as the same would be
 dangerous on account of the nature of the chemical, its
 movement and its process etc.

 xxx.....................xxx........................xxx.............. In a serious matter like this, the officers of the AMC have not
 bothered to verify the record of the gram panchayat with a view
 to find out whether there was a construction of Godown or not
 and if it was, whether the permission of the competent authority
 was obtained before the commencement of erection of a
 building, namely Godown? Unless the agricultural land is
 converted to Non-Agricultural land one cannot erect a building
 for any purpose. The officers of the AMC ought to have made
 enquiries thoroughly on this behalf. It is further stated that no
 evidence is available about development permission of the
 building in question or having been regularised under GRUDA
 Act by paying impact fees. It is interesting to note that the AMC
 is collecting property taxes from the year 2006-07. If the tax is 24 levied, was it not the duty and responsibility to find out the
 nature of the construction and use of the same and also
 whether the construction erected is with permission or not? REQUIREMENT OF PERMISSION FROM COMMISSIONER,
AMC 39. Section-313 of the GPMC Act, provides for regulation of
 Factories, workshops or workplace in which it is intended to
 employ steam, water, electrical and any other mechanical
 power. According to this provision: - 40. In the instant case, the Godown was taken on rent as per
 agreement executed between occupier and the landlords (Mark
 Annexure-2). In the Godown Shri Hetal Sutaria, in the name of
 M/S Sahil Enterprise, was operating a workshop or a workplace
 with electrical energy and therefore, it was compulsory for
 him to obtain a permission as contemplated under section
 313 of the GPMC Act. Only after the incident, AMC raided
 such premises and sealed the same which facts are
 referred by the Committee appointed by the State
 Government. There is nothing to show that such permission
 was obtained from the Commissioner, AMC and therefore, the
 occupier was operating the work-place or workshop without
 permission. It is unfortunate that the officers of the AMC visited
 the site only after the sad incident of explosion in which innocent
 persons died, sustained injuries and suffered heavy loss on
 account of damage caused to their goods and property. It is the
 duty of the AMC to see that no such person is working in any
 workplace with the aid of electrical or mechanical power without
 permission. Allowing the person to operate without such
 permission is an act of neglect on the part of the AMC. OFFICE OF THE COLLECTORATE ALLOWING THE USE OF
AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR THE PURPOSE NOT ALLOWED 41. It is also required to be noted that the Godowns where the
 incident took place, were erected on agricultural land. If the land 25 is an agricultural land, under Section 65 , of the Revenue Code,
the occupant of land assessed or held for the purpose of
agriculture is entitled by himself, his servants, tenants, agents
or other legal representatives, to erect farm buildings, construct
wells or tanks, or make any other improvements thereon for the
better cultivation of the land, or it's more convenient use for the
purposes aforesaid. Thus, the law prohibits the
construction of the Godown or any other type of building
or improvement which is not made for the better
cultivation of the land. Such construction could be
permissible only after following the procedure laid down
in the Revenue Code. No such procedure has been followed
and no permission has been obtained from the competent
authority to erect the Godown by the occupier of the land. 42 According to the record maintained by the Revenue
Department of the Government of Gujarat, the land bearing
Survey No. 298 is an Agricultural Land. Office of the City
Mamlatdar and Executive Magistrate conveyed information on
20/11/2022 to the Sub- Registrars, Ahmedabad intimating that
agricultural land bearing survey No. 298 of village Shahvadi
liable to be attached, no process of registration with respect to
this survey number and other lands of which survey numbers
are indicated in the letter be allowed. The copy of the said letter
is annexed herewith Mark Annexure-14. 43. Thus, the erection of Godown is illegal and the office of
the District Collector has not bothered for conversion of
land use. The amount is required to be paid to the
Government, namely the Collector for permission,
conversion and conversion of the nature of tenure. It
appears that neither the office of the Collector nor the
office of the AMC have bothered about these aspects. It is
also interesting to note that the Torrent Power Ltd has
not given any electric connection to M/S Sahil enterprise,
the occupier of the Godown where the incident took place.
The supply is in the name of the landlord. Thus, the landlord as
well as the tenant both have not disclosed the correct facts to the
authorities. It is clear from the revenue record that land bearing
survey No. 298 stands in the name of Revabhai Arjanbhai
Bharwad and Pradipkumar RevabhaiBharwad. The copy of
village form No. 7 issued by the competent authority, to indicate
the names of the occupiers, is annexed here with Mark
Annexure-15. On the area measuring about 4654 m2, the
erection of the Godowns was noticed hence, a notice was issued
to the landlord soon after the blast. After issuing appropriate
process, Deputy Collector (NA) on 21/11/2020 made an order
holding that industrial shed and Godown were constructed
without obtaining prior permission from the competent authority
and therefore, for the breach of section 66 and 67 of the
Revenue Code, a total fine of Rs. 24,61,499/- was imposed. As
fine was not paid, the entry has been made to the same effect. The entry is recorded in village Form No. 6. The copy of the said
entry is annexed herewith Mark Annexure-16. As per the record
(Mark Annexure-17) maintained by the Revenue Department,
Government of Gujarat as on 15.02.2020, Survey no. 298,
Village Shahwadi where the blast occurred is shown as
agriculture land and the occupiers names are 1) Revabhai
Arjanbhai Bharwad and 2) Pradeepkumar Revabhai Bharwad.
The office of the Deputy Collector forwarded the order in detail
made on 21.11.2020 conveying the amount fine imposed under
different heads and directing the AMC to remove the
unauthorised construction. The copy of the letter was also
forwarded to the Municipal Commissioner, AMC. The said letter
is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure- 18. It appears
that proceedings were initiated on 11.11.2020 soon after the
blast incident. Within a period of 10 days the office of the
Collector disposed of the case so as to convey that they have
taken action. It is also surprising that one Revabhai Arjanbhai
Bharwad and others even consented to make the payment as
per the rules. It seems that only after the occurrence of the
blast realising that the revenue officer will be held liable
for erection of godowns which are unauthorised, the show
is made of having taken action. Why was the action not
taken at least within a reasonable period? What action
has been taken for other illegal use of land or erection of
buildings in the area where the blast took place? 44. Even for the sake of argument it is believed that the occupier
could have used the agricultural land for other than agricultural
purposes, namely industrial, residential or commercial etc, Then
the legislature has prohibited the use of land for the purpose of
manufacture, preservation or processing of hazardous
chemicals. Section 65B of the Revenue Code has an
explanation pointing out that the land cannot be used
either for storage, processing or manufacturing
hazardous chemicals. The said explanation reads as under-; For the purposes of this section, section 48 and section 67A, the
expression "bonafide industrial purpose" means an activity of
manufacture, preservation or processing of goods, (other than
the hazardous and toxic chemicals specified in Part II of the
Schedule I to the Manufacture, Storages and Import of
Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989 made under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1989 and for the time being in
force) or any handicraft, or industrial business or enterprise,
carried on by any person and includes construction of industrial
buildings used for the manufacturing process or purpose, or
power projects or port projects and ancillary industrial usage
like research and development, godown, canteen, office building
of the industry concerned, or providing housing accommodation
to the workers of the industry concerned, or establishment of
industrial estate including a co-operative estate or service
industry or tourism or cottage industry. 45. The Collectorate is the competent authority for conversion of
land under the Revenue Code and the Commissioner is the
competent authority for issuing the permission for erection of a
building in the instant case. Even by imposing impact fees the
same could not have been regularised as the land is an
agricultural land. 46. What is interesting to note is that the occupier of the Godown
stated that he is in occupation since about 2 & 1/2 years. It is
an admitted position that no officer the AMC ever visited the
Godown prior to the accident. Even if it is taken for granted that
the building can be used as a Godown, the question is whether
it can be used for other than Godown? Can it be used for the
process of mixing the hazardous chemicals in an assembly
operating with electricity? Can Godown without any requisite
ventilation be used for any other purpose than the Godown? It is
clear that the owner of the land as well as the occupier of the
Godown are responsible for their acts and omissions. The office
of the Collectorate and the AMC are also negligent in
discharging their duties. Even for the sake of argument it is
accepted that the Godowns were erected with the permission of
the competent authority, the question is why the same was
allowed to use/occupy for a different purpose than for which it
was constructed. Even in the adjoining Godown where a number
of persons were working in the Godown as packer had no
ventilation. Even Godown (No.A-11, C-1) was rented only for the
purpose of storage of goods and not for the purpose of using it
as a place for packing the goods. One fails to understand why
the premises were allowed for the use other than the Godown
forgetting the safety of the citizens? Permitting the occupier to
engage in the industrial activities involving hazardous chemicals
in a Godown meant for storage of other articles and that too
without ventilation is nothing but criminal negligence. The use of
hazardous chemicals or mixing of the same requires a building
with proper design and strength with sufficient ventilation. This
requirement is not only for the benefit of the occupier, but also
for the benefit of neighbours and even the persons in the vicinity
of the building. 47. Even if it is taken for granted that the AMC soon after
merging the area in the limits of AMC was collecting the tax, the
question is how there was a change of use of the building? The
document is on record clearly indicates that the Godown was
rented in the year 2016, much after the area merged with the
city. It seems that none from the AMC took cognizance of even
change of use of a building. 48. A copy of a licence agreement dated 11/10/2017 between
the owners of the land (Survey No.293/2 for Godown Nos. A-6 to
A-11 & B-1- to B-6) and Kanika Taxofab, having its office at
shop No. 279/1, New Cloth Market, O/S Raipur Gate, 28 Ahmedabad, is placed on record by the office of the Collector.
The same is annexed herewith and Mark Annexure-19. The said
document was forwarded to the District Magistrate by the
counsel appearing for Kanika Texofab. From the document it
appears that the licensee was required to pay rent per month in
all ₹78,000/- to 6 licensors in equal proportion. As per the
agreed covenants the licensee agreed to use the said premises
for the purpose of keeping goods and things of their own
business. Thus, reading the lease agreement it is clear that the
Godown were leased only for the purpose of storage of goods
and not for carrying out any work in the Godown. xxx.....................xxx........................xxx.............. 52. As per the report, the Government of Gujarat formed a
high-power Committee consisting of (1) Additional Chief
Secretary, Labour and Employment Department; (2) Chairman,
Gujarat pollution Control Board, Gandhinagar. The report has
been submitted by the said Committee to the State Government.
The copy of the report is annexed herewith Mark Annexure-20.
In the report submitted by the Committee to the State
Government, a letter dated 13/11/2020 addressed by the
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (hereinafter referred as "the
AMC") is annexed. Reading the same it appears that various
departments of the AMC undertook a strict checking to find out
the premises where hazardous chemicals were being stored
without obtaining appropriate permission / licence/NOC and a
number of units were sealed found storing hazardous chemicals.
The AMC within a period of one week sealed 46 units occupying
1,06,670 m2 area, and submitted the report with the details of
each individual unit, name of the responsible person, the place
and the area occupied by the unit. On 09/11/2020 industrial
shed measuring 2,500 m2 and on 11/11/2020 industrial shed
measuring 1,350 m2 constructed without permission were
demolished. On inspection of chemical units, 18 Units were
found operating without licence from the Health Department
which were served with notices. From the report it also appears
that 116 units were served with notices for committing the
breaches of Environmental Law by the Gujarat Pollution Control
Board. Proceedings have been initiated against 36 units under
the Factories Act 1948. In Surat 116 Godown operating without
N.O.C. from the fire department were served with notices. The
prosecution has been launched against the owners of the land
as well as Shri Hetal G Sutariya, proprietor of M/S Sahil
Enterprise. Considering various aspects, the Committee
constituted by the State Government recommended that: - REPORT BY OFFICERS OF THE DIRECTORATE OF
INDUSTRIAL SAFETY AND HEALTH (DISH), FACTORY AND
INSTALLATION 53. There was a formation of the District Crisis Group and
 Local Crisis Group. District Off-site emergency plan for District
 Ahmedabad. Whether proper hazard, vulnerability, capacity and
 risk analysis was done for the site of the accident or in its
 vicinity or not, was the question. The answer recorded is that the
 same is not applicable. From the answer recorded, it appears
 that no such analysis was done probably under the belief that
 the unit was not a factory under the provisions contained in the Factories Act, 1948 , the same was not required to be done. No
 on-site/off-site protocols for management of emergencies were
 established. There was no information about the availability of
 the DM plan of M/S Sahil Enterprise. The other questions being
 not of much relevance are not referred. 54. According to the Director, Industrial Safety and
 Health, it is not in their province to make inquiry or to
 take any action under the rules known as" the
 Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical
 Rules, 1989" made by the Central Government in exercise
 of the powers conferred by Section 6 , 8 and 25 of the
 Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. 55. Rule 6 refers to the eventuality indicated therein for the
 applicability of Rules 7 to 15. According to this provision a
 quantity of hazardous chemical listed in column 2 of Schedule 3
 which is equal or more than the quantity specified in the entry
 for that chemical in column 3 and 4 (Rules 10-12 only for column 4) will attract the provisions contained in Rules 7 to 15. 56. Likewise, provision for isolated storage would be
 attracted, if the quantity of hazardous chemicals listed in column
 No. 2 of Schedule 2 possessed is or more than the quantity
 specified. The question raised is that the Chemicals Rules in the
 instant case shall not apply as the occupier did not possess the
 quantity of hazardous chemicals equal to or more than the
 prescribed at a time as referred in column 2 of Schedule 3. The
 Rules shall not apply in the instant case as the site where the
 blast took place is not a Factory as defined under the Factories
 Act, 1948 . There was no workman at the site where blast 30 occurred, Rules 7 to 15 shall not apply and therefore, Chemical
Rules shall not apply. Reading the provisions contained in the
rules, it appears that for applicability of Rules 7 to 15, the
quantity of hazardous chemicals has been prescribed. In view of
the computerised system or taking work from Robots, a person
engaged in Hazardous chemicals may escape from the liability
by saying that he has not employed, particular number of
persons to attract the provisions contained in the Factories Act,
1948 . 57. The real questions are that: 58. Part I of Schedule 1 refers to toxic chemicals, flammable
chemicals, extremely flammable liquids, very highly flammable
liquids, highly flammable liquids, flammable liquids and
explosives, the nature of which is indicated. Explosive is an
article which is in itself capable by chemical reaction of
producing gas at such a temperature and pressure and at such
a speed as to cause damage to the surrounding; or Which is
designed to produce an effect by heat, light, sound, gas or
smoke or combination of these as a result of non-determinative
self-sustaining exothermic chemical reaction. Part II of Schedule
1 refers to a list of hazardous chemicals and toxic chemicals
which are 684 in numbers. 59. One will have to refer to Rule 6 laying down the conditions
for applicability of Rules 7 to 15. The relevant part is subrule (1)
of rule 6 which reads as under: - 60. Therefore, one will have to look at the quantity
prescribed in the Schedule making the person liable to follow
certain procedures and obtain requisite permissions from the
competent authority as indicated above. At the same time, one
will have to refer Rule 17 which refers to collection, development
and dissemination of information which is as under; - (1) This Rule shall apply to an industrial activity in which
 a hazardous chemical which satisfies any of the
 criteria laid down in part I of Schedule 1 (refers to
 toxic chemicals, flammable chemicals etc.) 1 [or listed]
 in Column 2 of Part II of this Schedule (in all 684
 chemicals) or may be involved. (Column No. 1 is a
 serial number and the column No. 2 is the name of the
 hazardous chemical)
 (2) An occupier, who has control of an industrial activity
 in terms of Sub-Rule 1 of this Rule, shall arrange to
 obtain or develop information in the form of a safety
 data sheet as specified in Schedule 9. The information
 shall be accessible upon request for reference.
 (3) The occupier while obtaining or developing a safety
 data sheet as specified in Schedule 9 in respect of a
 hazardous chemical handled by him shall ensure that
 the information is recorded accurately and reflects the
 scientific evidence used in making the hazard
 determination. In case, any significant information
 regarding hazard of a chemical is available, it shall be
 added to the material safety data sheet as specified in
 Schedule 9 as soon as practicable. (4) Every container of a hazardous chemical shall be
 clearly labelled or marked to identify -(a) the contents
 of the container; (b) the name and address of
 manufacturer or importer of the hazardous chemical; (c) the physical, chemical and toxicological data as per
 the criteria given at Part I of Schedule 1
 (5) In terms of Sub-Rule 4 of this Rule where it is
 impracticable to label a chemical in view of the size of
 the container or the nature of the package, provision
 should be made for other effective means like tagging
 or accompanying documents. 61. Thus, Rule 17 makes it clear that the same shall apply
where there is use of hazardous chemicals. The law has made it
mandatory for the occupier to submit the form i.e., safety data 32 sheet as specified in Schedule 9. It is required to noted that only
Rule 7 to 15 shall apply to an industrial activity possessed with
a quantity of hazardous chemicals listed in Column 2 of
Schedule 3 which is equal or more than the quantity specified in
the entry for that chemical in Column 3 & 4(Rules 10-12only for
Column 4). In the Industry, where the quantity of hazardous
chemicals used is less than the specified will not be covered
by the Rules 7 to 15. Yet, as the occupier consuming hazardous
chemicals would be governed by other Rules. Rule 17 mandates
the occupier, who handles the hazardous chemicals that he shall
ensure that information is recorded accurately and reflects the
scientific evidence used in making the hazard determination. It
mandates that the container of a hazardous chemical shall be
clearly labelled or marked to identify the contents of the
container, name and address of the manufacture or importer
and the physical, chemical and toxicological data as per the
criteria given at part 1 of Schedule 1. 62. When the occupier operates the industrial installation, Rule
2(h) shall be attracted. Rule 2 (h) "industrial activity" means. (i)
an operation or process carried out in an industrial installation
referred to in Schedule 4 involving or likely to involve one or
more hazardous chemicals and includes on-site storage or on-site
transport which is associated with that operation or process, as
the case may be; or (ii). isolated storage; or (iii.) Pipeline; 63. Schedule 4 of the Rules conveys that the installation for
production, processing or treatment of organic or inorganic
chemicals used for this purpose among others includes mixing.
Law does not require that there should be a factory as defined
under the Factories Act,1948 for the purpose of production,
processing or treatment but there should be an installation. Even
mixing is considered an industrial installation. Thus, when the
occupier is engaged with less than the threshold quantity
in the activities referred in schedule 4, the copy of which
is annexed herewith and Marked Annexure-21, the
Chemicals Rules except Rules 7 to 15 will be applicable. 64. Thus, reading Rule 17 with Rule 2 (h) (i) and
Schedule 4 it becomes clear that when a person is mixing
hazardous chemicals, the provisions of Rule 17 will be
attracted. The occupier engaged in an industrial
installation is required to submit the Form as per
Schedule 9. It seems that that has not been done. The
occupier has not given the account of the material namely
hazardous chemicals being used by him for mixing or
making another product by mixing the chemicals which
are hazardous. 65. Schedule 5 at serial number 4, refers to the Chief
Inspector of Factories appointed under the Factories Act, 1948 which mandates the duty to prepare off-site emergency 33 plans in consultation with District Collector or District
Emergency Authority as per Schedule 9 of this Schedule.
If a person clandestinely operates an industrial
installation, the authorities named in Schedule 5 must
take action. How the Rules are to be enforced is the duties
and responsibilities of the authority, which is assigned
the work on this behalf. Random checking of the
suppliers would indicate the name of purchasers and
their addresses. Even the material supplied to the
occupier by the supplier should have been enquired in
detail to find out as to what quantity of the hazardous
chemical, the occupier was supplied and what quantity of
the hazardous chemicals was received. On examination of
such documents, the authority could have initiated action
for noncompliance of Rule 17. 66. Rule 4 clearly indicates the duties of the occupier during
industrial activity. It states that - (1) these rules shall apply to- (a) an industrial activity in which a hazardous chemical,
 which satisfies any of the criteria laid down in Part
 1 of Schedule 1 or listed in Column 2 of Part 2 of
 this schedule is, or may be, involved; and (b) isolated storage of hazardous chemicals listed in
 Schedule 2 in a quantity equal to or more than the
 threshold quantity specified in Column 3, thereof. (2) An occupier has control of an industrial activity in
 terms of sub-rule (1) shall provide evidence to show
 that he has- (a) identified the major accident hazards; and (b) taken adequate steps to- (i) prevent such major accidents and to limit their
 consequences to persons and the environment; (ii) provide the persons working on the site with
 information, training and equipment including
 antidots necessary to ensure their safety. 67. This provision makes it very clear that where an
industrial activity is undertaken in which a hazardous chemical
as indicated in Part I or Part II of Schedule 1 is, or may be
involved, the occupier has to provide evidence to show that he
has identified the major accident hazards and has taken
adequate steps to prevent such major accidents and to limit the
consequences to persons and environment. Not only this, but he
has to provide information, training and equipment to the
persons working on site. The question is who has to provide the
information and to whom? Reading all the rules it appears that 34 the same shall apply to an occupier using hazardous chemicals
which may be less than the quantity prescribed in Schedule 2,
or even to an importer importing hazardous chemicals. Who has
to satisfy about the requisite action taken by the occupier as
indicated in the rule as aforesaid? Rule 3 mandates the
concerned authority to inspect the industrial activity at least
once in a calendar year. The Chief Inspector of Factories is
required to discharge duties not limited to the duties
referred in column 3 of Schedule 5 but his duties are also
subject to the other provision of the hazardous chemical
rules. Wherever and whenever the industrial activity with
the aid of hazardous chemicals is being undertaken, in
view of rule 3 it is mandatory to inspect the industrial
activity at least once in a year. To make it clear, the
industrial activity is defined in sub- clause (h) which
specifically states that an operation or process carried
out in an industrial installation referred to in Schedule 4
involving or likely to involve one or more hazardous
chemicals and includes on-site storage or on-site
transport which is associated with that operation or
process. Schedule 4 refers to installation for the production,
processing or treatment of organic or inorganic chemicals used
for these purposes, amongst others; (neither the Factory as
defined under the Factories Act,1948 , nor the threshold quantity
for industrial activity is required to be seen. Whether the
hazardous chemical is used or not in industrial activity as
defined is to be seen). 68. In sub- clauses (a) to (s) of clause 1 of Schedule 4
different types of process is indicated, however, for the purpose
of the present case the process indicated in sub- clause (h)
mixing will be sufficient to state that the occupier was operating
an installation for the purpose of production and in that process
was using either organic or inorganic chemicals which were
hazardous. Thus, it is very clear that the occupier was operating
an industrial installation. Sub-Rule (a) of Rule 3 mandates to
inspect the industrial activity without reference to any quantity
used by the industrial installation. At this juncture it would be
relevant to refer to sub- clause (b) of rule 4 which states that" 69. If, the interpretation as suggested by the authority is
accepted, it would mean that only the occupier engaged in the
industrial activity in which a hazardous chemical used, which
satisfies any of the criteria laid down in Part I of Schedule 1 or
listed in Column 2 of Part II of the schedule is, or maybe,
involved with the quantity which is prescribed for attracting Rule
7 to 15, only then action can be taken against an occupier for
breach of Rules. It seems that the authority has lost the sight of
small-scale manufacturers who are using less quantity than
indicated in schedule 3. In view of clear definition of industrial
activity, site, Rule 17, Rule 19, Schedule 1 Part I and Part II and
Schedule-4 it is clear that the occupier engaged in process of
hazardous chemicals who is not consuming the quantity of
hazardous chemicals as prescribed in schedule 3 has to act as
per the rules applicable and the authority has power to take
action for the beach committed. Rule 19 very specifically states
that if the concerned authority is of the opinion that a person has
contravened the provision of these rules, the concern authority
shall serve on him a notice (in this para referred to as "an
improvement notice") requiring that person to remedy the
contravention or, as the case may be (the matters occasioning it
within 45 days). Thus, for breach of any rule, the authority is
entitled to take the cognizance and issue an improvement notice. 70. Under the provisions contained in the Chemical
Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Response)
Rules, 1996 (hereinafter referred as "the accident rules") the
State Crisis Group, the District Crisis Group and the Local Crisis
Groups are required to be formed as indicated in rule 6 (2), rule
8 and as per Schedule 6, Schedule 7 and Schedule 8. 71. Sub-Clause (a) of rule 2 defines "chemical accident".
according to this provision an accident involving a fortuitous, or
sudden or unintended occurrence while handling any hazardous
chemicals resulting in continuous, intermittent or repeated
exposure to death, or injury to, any person or damage to any
property but does not include an accident by reason only of war
or radioactivity. According to sub-clause (1) of Clause (b)
"hazardous chemical" means any chemical which satisfies the
criteria laid down in Part I of Schedule 1 or is listed in Part 2 of
the said Schedule. According to Sub-Clause (c) "industrial
activity" includes an operation or process- (I) carried out in an
industrial installation referred to in Schedule 4 involving or
likely to involve one or more hazardous chemicals. So far as
chemical accidents are concerned the same are defined into two
categories, sub-Clause (f) of rule 2 states" major chemical
accident" means,-an occurrence including any particular major
emission, fire or explosion involving one or more hazardous
chemicals resulting from uncontrolled developments in the
course of industrial activity or transportation or due to natural
events leading to serious effects both immediate or delayed, 36 inside or outside the installation like to cause substantial loss of
life and property including adverse effects on the environment.
To say simply, fire/explosion involves one or more hazardous
chemicals leading to serious effects inside or outside the
installation causing substantial loss of life and property
including adverse effects on the environment. It refers to
involvement of hazardous chemicals, resulting from uncontrolled
developments in the course of industrial activity (not necessarily
in a factory) inside or outside the installation (not necessarily a
factory) likely to cause substantial loss of life, property including
adverse effects on the environment. 72. Sub-Clause (g) of rule 2 states "Major Accident
Hazards (MAH) installations" means, isolated storage in
industrial activity at a site, handling (including transport
through carrier or pipeline) of hazardous chemicals equal to or,
in excess of the threshold quantities specified in Column 3 of
Schedule 2 and 3 respectively. In case of Major Accident
Hazards Installations quantity of hazardous chemicals if, equal
or in excess of the threshold quantities specified in Column 3 of
Schedule 2 and 3 matters. Even if the quantity is less, the
provisions of chemical accidents would be attracted. 73. A list of Major Accident Hazard installations and a list of
major chemical accidents is required to be prepared looking to
Rule 4 read with the definitions of Chemical Accident, major
chemical accident, Major Accident Hazards (MAH), installations,
industrial activity, site, and the inclusion of the Inspector of
Factories in Schedule 6, Schedule 7 and Schedule 8. These
clearly indicate that the installations, industrial activities or
process or manufacturing activities which are involved with
hazardous chemicals are divided into two groups, (1) Major
Accident Hazard (MAH) Installation handling hazardous
chemicals equal to or, excess of the threshold quantities
specified in column 3 of schedule 2 and 3 respectively, for which
the rule-making authority have used the words ̏Major Accident
Hazards (MAH) Installations; and (2) major chemical accident
where occurrence has taken place involving hazardous
chemicals without indicating the quantity of handling the
hazardous chemicals. Obviously, it would mean that the
installations which are not covered by clause (g) of rule 2 will fall
in category (f) of rule 2, namely major chemical accident. 74. As per rule 6 there is a mandate to constitute a State
Crisis Group for management of chemical accidents within 30
days from the date of commencement of these rules. Functions of
State Crisis Group are prescribed in rule 7. The State Crisis
Group shall be the Apex body in the State to deal with major
chemical accidents and to provide expert guidance for handling
major chemical accidents. Rule 8 mandates to constitute (1)
District Crisis Groups; and (2) Local Crisis Groups. The
composition of these groups shall be as per Schedule 7 and 8 37 respectively. Rule 9 and rule 10 refer to the functions of
the District Crisis Group and Local crisis Group. It is very
clear that the State crisis Group shall have to review all
district off-site emergency plans in the State with a view
to examine its adequacy in accordance with the
Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous
Chemicals, Rules and for a report to the Central Crisis
Group once in 3 months. It has to discharge the functions as
indicated in rule 7. 75. Keeping the aforesaid provisions, one has to examine the
communication addressed by the office of the District Industrial
Safety and Health (DISH) dated 18th December, 2020 which is
annexed herewith Mark Annexure-8. In view of what is
discussed above, it is clear that the authority has to discharge
its duties in accordance with the rules, which in our opinion, the
authority has failed. xxx.....................xxx........................xxx.............. 78. Hon'ble Tribunal, by an interim measure assessed the
interim compensation for death at ₹15 lakh each (taking into
account multiplier of around 16 and loss of earning of about 1
lakh a year, apart from conventional sums) and for injuries of
persons hospitalised at ₹5 lakh per person. In the present case
the persons died or some sustained injuries when they were
working at their workplace. The incident of blast or explosion
took place in the neighbouring Godown. They did not sustain
injuries or the persons did not die in an accident arising out of
and in the course of employment. (Except one) Considering this
aspect, we thought it fit to follow the decision in case of Sunita
Tokas & Anr. Versus New India Insurance Co. Ltd. & Anr,
and to apply the ratio of the same case. Accordingly, considering
the average daily wage rates applicable in the state of Gujarat,
or income per month whichever is higher, deducting 50%
towards expenses, and multiplying that figure by 12 months,
yearly compensation is arrived and multiplying that amount
with an appropriate multiplier, the amount of compensation is
arrived. The amount towards 1) the love and affection; 2) expenses for
shifting the deceased; 3) the amount to be spent for burial or
funeral expenses etc, have been added to the amount calculated
by applying an appropriate multiplier. In all 13 persons died
including a person who was working with M/S Sahil Enterprise.
Considering the actual entitlement as calculated is reflected in
the chart against the name of a person with other details. The
Statement or the Chart indicating the entitlement (Compensation)
and other details of the deceased persons (13 nos.) as provided
by District Administration are annexed herewith and collectively
Mark Annexure-27. The compensation calculated is shown in
following Table- By way of an interim order an amount as directed was required
to be deposited and disbursed. It is informed that
communication dtd 09.11.2020 was sent from Collector,
Ahmedabad to Relief Director, Office of Relief Director, Revenue
Department, Sachivalaya, Gandhinagar for sanctioning amount
to deceased and injured person as per rules from CM Relief
Fund. After sanction from Relief Director, District Administration
disbursed Rs. 4 lakh to kin of deceased person during the period
11.11.2020 to 21.11.2020. The one person succumbed to injury
on 13.11.2020 and for his kin the ex-gratia amount (Rs. 4 lakh)
has been disbursed on 05.01.2021 as informed by District
Administration through letter dated 07.01.2021. The summary
of action taken by the District Administration and disbursement
of ex-gratia amount is annexed herewith collectively Mark
Annexure-28. However, the relief amount is not sanctioned for
injured persons and therefore not disbursed till date. It is clear from the material placed on record that the amount as
directed by the Hon'ble Tribunal has not been paid to all the
victims and to the persons amount paid is not to the extent to
which they are entitled. The Collector is required to take much
more initiative in the matter of disbursement of the amount as
directed. 79. There are 09 workers, injured in the accident. All the
injured were taken to Sheth L G Municipal General Hospital of
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. All the injured persons were
discharged from hospital and two persons incurred 39 hospitalization expenses for their treatment. The information of
injured persons in tabular form provided by District
Administration, Ahmedabad where details including name of
person, name of the employer, no of days of hospitalization,
nature of injury etc are provided as Mark Annexure- 29. As per letter dated 23.12.2020 from Medical Superintendent,
Sheth L G Municipal General Hospital, Maninagar, Ahmedabad
to Resident Additional Collector, Ahmedabad, three persons are
taking treatment for reconstructive surgery for which their
disability certificate can/shall be issued later on. For four
persons no disability certificate has been issued having no
disability. Remaining two out of nine injured persons, one did not
turn up for follow up/check-up and another person got
discharged against advice. Five persons got discharged within 1-
4 days whereas other four persons were hospitalized for 22
days. So far as injured persons are concerned, there is no report by the
District Collector conveying the information about the payment
made to injured who were hospitalized. Merely because the
treatment was free in the hospital is no ground to deny the
benefit of the order of the Hon'ble Tribunal. As a matter of fact,
on account of injuries the persons were admitted in the hospital
and therefore, the injured who was admitted and treated in the
hospital is entitled to get the sum of Rs. 5 Lakhs. LIABILITY OF THE DEFAULTER AND OF THE STATE, IN
CASE OF FAILURE. CAUSES OF FAILURE AND PERSONS
AND AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE 80. The Hon'ble Tribunal specifically called upon the
committee for the steps to be taken for compensation of victims
and restitution of the damaged property and environment, and
the cost involved. This is coupled with submitting the report
about causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible. (i) The Owner of the Unit M/s Sahil Enterprise - Shri
 Sutariya, without obtaining permission from competent
 authority and without taking any precaution was
 storing and handling hazardous chemicals. In view of
 the nature of chemicals, it is to be presumed that he had
 knowledge about the process and preservation of the
 chemicals. The Committee members have seen the
 remaining godowns and all construction are
 substandard in nature. Essentially, the building was
 erected for storage of material only which need not have
 safety switches known as spark free switches or Spark
 Shield Switches and sockets used in industries. This
 indicates that he has not taken precautions during the
 activities and he has not taken on rent a premises
 suitable for the manufacturing hazardous chemicals. Clandestinely as he was doing the work without
 conveying the authorities in a space unfit for storage
 and manufacturing purposes, he cannot escape from
 his liability to make good to the people who have
 suffered. (ii) That the land which was agricultural land could not
 have been used for any other purpose without obtaining
 the permission from the Collector and payment of the
 conversion charges. Even for the sake of argument, the
 plot having been included in the town planning scheme,
 the occupier of the land can use the land for the
 bonafide industrial purpose which is permissible, but
 that is only after payment of conversion tax leviable
 under Section 67-A is paid. The agriculturalist being
 aware that if the permission is taken for use of the land
 for non-agricultural purposes, he will have to pay the
 handsome amount to the government for conversion etc.
 Despite erecting a number of godowns and collecting
 rents from the tenants, the landowner has continued to
 show the land as agricultural land in the revenue
 record. This is not merely an illegality but is a fraud
 with the statute and therefore, it must be taken very
 seriously. Even, the office of the collector was
 absolutely careless, negligent and therefore,
 responsible in allowing the erection of Godown and use
 of the same contrary to the provisions of law. How is it
 possible that for a number of years the farmer has not
 approached the revenue officer, namely the Talati for
 payment of revenue and copies of revenue records? Is
 it possible to believe that the Talati would not
 know about the construction carried out? In view
 of development not only on the land in question
 but surrounding lands were seen with
 construction and no cultivation was seen. The
 revenue officers are required to be presumed that
 they were aware about the construction and yet
 recorded as agricultural land in revenue records
 which are public documents. It appears that the
 office of the collector issued notice on 11.11.2020
 for illegal construction made in 2000-2001 only
 after the blast (04.11.2020) to show that the
 office of the Collector has taken action and also
 to avoid responsibility. (iii) After the erection of the Godown, when the area
 merged in the city limits of Ahmedabad Municipal
 Corporation, the staff of the AMC did not bother
 to find out the use of the premises and whether
 any permission was required or not to make use
 of the particular Godown. The law mandates to
 have permission from the Commissioner, AMC to 41 run the workshop or workplace with the use of
 energy, namely electricity or mechanical power
 or water. Thus, to some extent the staff of the
 AMC is also responsible. (iv) The duty of the DISH which is discussed in detail
 in earlier part clearly indicates that the officers
 did not make any enquiry. 81. The committee constituted by the State Government
recommended as under: - 82. Taking into consideration the above facts it is clear that
the: - Revenue Department, District Administration, Municipal

Corporation, Industries Department as well as Environment

Departments of Gujarat are certainly failure in preventing the

incident by not implementing the necessary statutory precautions. Compensation of Rs. 4 lakhs each was given as ex-gratia out of the Chief

Minister Relief Fund which does not meet the mandate of earlier orders

of this Tribunal, including the interim order in the present case. The land

was agriculture land and illegally used as godown in violation of Land

Revenue Code, 1879. The Tribunal directed payment of interim

compensation of Rs. 15 lakhs for the deceased and 5 lakhs for the

injured which has not been disbursed. The Committee has recommended

safeguards in terms of statutory provisions of the 1989 and 1996 Rules. M/s Sahil Enterprise was operating in an unauthorized area without a

proper license to operate, required under the law. No safety audit of the

factory was done. There is no implementation of building bye-laws and

no provision of fulfilment of building code requirements for construction

of buildings in the locality. The godown was not designed for the

chemical factory. There were no 'on-site'/'offsite' protocols for

management of emergencies established in the locality. There is no fire

control mechanism available at site or in the vicinity of the incident

/accident site. Necessary safeguards and critical evaluation and review

pertaining to simultaneous storage of non-compatible hazardous and

toxic are required, which has not been done.. There was violations of the

provisions of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act,

1979 , Gujarat Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 and the

Bombay Land Revenue Code. Thus, the statutory authorities in the

State of Gujarat failed to perform their statutory obligations. Though primary responsibility is of the persons engaged in illegal

hazardous activities, without following requisite safeguards, there is

also failure in compliance of the statutory oversight authorities. Thus, the vicarious liability of the State for serious negligence

 renders the State vicariously liable, as held in Municipal Corporation of

 Delhi v. Uphaar Tragedy Victims Association & Ors. ( 2011) 14 SCC 481

 and Vadodara Municipal Corporation v. Purshottam V. Murjani & Ors . (2014) 16 SCC 14. 5. In Uphaar Tragedy Victims Association , supra, it was observed: 101. Constitutional Courts all over the world have to overcome
these hurdles. Failure to precisely articulate and carefully evaluate
a uniform policy as against State and its officials would at times
tend the court to adopt rules which are applicable in private law
remedy for which courts and statutes have evolved various
methods, such as loss earnings, impairment of future earning
capacity, medical expenses, mental and physical suffering,
property damage etc. Adoption of those methods as such in
computing the damages for violation of constitutional torts may not
be proper. 102. In Delhi Domestic Working Women's Forum v. Union of India
Domestic Working Women's Forum v. Union of India (supra) the
apex Court laid down parameters in assisting the victims of rape
including the liability of the State to provide compensation to the
victims and held as follows :- 103. Legal liability in damages exist solely as a remedy out of
private law action in tort which is generally time consuming and
expensive and hence when fundamental rights are violated
claimants prefer to approach constitutional courts for speedy
remedy. Constitutional courts, of course, shall invoke its
jurisdiction only in extraordinary circumstances when serious
injury has been caused due to violation of fundamental rights
especially under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In such
circumstances the Court can invoke its own methods depending
upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Constitutional Torts and Punitive Damages Constitutional
Torts and Punitive Damages 104. Constitutional Courts' actions not only strive to compensate
the victims and vindicate the constitutional rights, but also to deter 50 future constitutional misconduct without proper excuse or with
some collateral or improper motive. Constitutional courts can in
appropriate cases of serious violation of life and liberty of the
individuals award punitive damages. However, the same generally
requires the presence of malicious intent on the side of the wrong
doer, i.e. an intentional doing of some wrongful act. 105. Compensatory damages are intended to provide the claimant
with a monetary amount necessary to recoup/replace what was
lost, since damages in tort are generally awarded to place the
claimants in the position he would have been in, had the tort not
taken place which are generally quantified under the heads of
general damages and special damages. Punitive damages are
intended to reform or to deter the wrong doer from indulging in
conduct similar to that which formed the basis for the claim.
Punitive damages are not intended to compensate the claimant
which he can claim in an ordinary private law claim in tort.
Punitive damages are awarded by the constitutional court when
the wrong doer's conduct was egregiously deceitful. 106. Lord Patrick Devlin in leading case on the point Rookes v.
Barnard, [1964] All England Reporter 367 Rookes v. Barnard,
[1964] All England Reporter 367 delineated certain circumstances
which satisfy the test for awarding punitive damages such as the
conduct must have been oppressive, arbitrary, or unconstitutional,
the conduct was calculated to make profit for the wrong doer and
that the statute expressly authorizes awarding of punitive
damages. Above principles are, however, not uniformly followed by
English Courts though the House of Lords in a decision in Attorney-
Attorney General v. Blake, [2001]1 AC 268, General v. Blake,
[2001]1 AC 268, awarded punitive damages when it was found
the defendant had profited from publishing a book and was asked
to give an account of his profits gained from writing the book. In
this case where the wrong doer was made to give up the profits
made, through restitution for wrongs, certainly the claimant gained
damages. 107. In United States, in a few States, punitive damages are
determined based on statutes. But often criticisms are raised
because of the high imposition of punitive damages by courts. The
Supreme Court of United States has rendered several decisions
limiting the awards of punitive damages through the due process
of law clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. In BMW of
North America Inc. v. Gore 517 U.S. 559 (1996) of North America
Inc. v. Gore 517 U.S. 559 (1996) the Court ruled that the punitive
damages must be reasonable, as determined based on the degree
of reprehensibility of the conduct, the ratio of punitive damages to
compensatory damages and any criminal or civil penalties
applicable to the conduct. In Philip Morris USA v. Williams 549 U. S.
346 (2007) , Philip Morris USA v. Williams 549 U. S. 346 (2007) , the
Court ruled that the award of punitive damages cannot be imposed
for the direct harm that the misconduct caused to others, but may 51 consider harm to others as a function of determining how
 reprehensible it was. There is no hard and fast rule to measure the
 punitive damages to determine such a claim. In United States in
 number of cases the Court has indicated that the ratio 10:1 or
 higher between punitive and compensatory damages is held to be
 unconstitutional." 6. In Vadodara Municipal Corporation , supra, it was observed: 7. It is matter of serious concern that we have recently dealt with

 around 16 tragedies of deaths and injuries in the course of industrial

 activities conducted in violation of safety protocols and required the

 authorities to undertake review of compliance of safety protocols in such

 activities3. This Tribunal has found that most of the accidents are 3 i. Order dated 01.06.2020, relating to incident of gas leak dated 07.05.2020 in LG
 Polymers India Pvt. Limited at Vishakhapatnam, resulting in death of 11 persons and
 injuries to more than 100, apart from other damage (OA No. 73/2020, In re: Gas Leak at
 LG Polymers Chemical Plant in RR Venkatapuram Village Visakhapatnam in Andhra
 Pradesh); ii. Order dated 03.02.2021, relating to incident dated 03.06.2020 in a chemical factory,
 Yashyashvi Rasayan Pvt. Ltd. at Dahej, District Bharuch, Gujarat resulting in deaths
 and injuries and other damage (OA No. 85/2020) (Earlier OA 22/2020) (WZ), Aryavart
 Foundation through its President vs. Yashyashvi Rasayan Pvt. Ltd. & Anr.);
iii. Order dated 06.08.2020, in relation to incident of oil well blow out on 27.05.2020 at
 Baghjan in the Tinsukia District of Assam resulting in deaths, injuries and damage to
 the environment (OA No. 43/2020( EZ), Bonani Kakkar vs. Oil India Limited & Ors. ).
iv. Orders dated 06.07.2020 and 22.12.2020, relating to incident dated 30.06.2020 on
 account of gas leakage at Sainor Life Sciences factory at Parawada in industrial area on
 the outskirts of Vishakhapatnam (OA No. 106/2020, News item published in the local
 daily "Economic Times" dated 30.06.2020 titled "Another Gas Leakage at Vizag Factory
 kills two, critically injures four..."); v. Orders dated 08.07.2020 and 22.12.2020, dealing with the incident dated 01.07.2020
 resulting in death of 6 person and injury to 17 due to blast of boiler in M/s Neyveli
 Thermal Power Station (NLCIL), Cuddalore (OA No. 108/2020, News item published in
 the "Indian Express" dated 01.07.2020 titled "Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast: 6 dead, 17
 injured") and; vi. Orders dated 23.07.2020 and 22.12.2020, in relation to incident of fire engulfed the
 chemical plant of Visakha Solvents Ltd, Vizag on 13.07.2020 at Ramky CETP Solvents
 building in Pharma City resulting in injuries (OA No. 134/2020, News item published on
 13.07.2020 in the local daily named "India Today" titled "Massive fire engulf Vizag
 chemical plant, explosions heard, injuries reported").
vii. Order dated 18.12.2020, in relation to incident of explosion in a plastic recycling
 factory at Sujapur in Malda on 1.12.2020 resulting in death of six persons, including 53 result of non-compliance of laid down safety norms under the 1989

 Rules and the Chemical Accidents (Emergency Planning,

 Preparedness and Response) Rules, 1996 [1996 Rules]. There is,

 thus, need for the establishments handling hazardous chemicals to

 strictly follow the laid down norms, which need to be overseen by

 the statutory regulators. Out of the said tragedies, one of the tragedies

 took place at Dahej in District Bharuch which was dealt with vide order

 of this Tribunal dated 03.02.2021 in OA 85/2020, Aryavart Foundation

 through its President v. Yashyashvi Rasayan Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. The

 Committee appointed by this Tribunal was also headed by Justice B.C.

 two minors and serious injuries to four persons (OA No. 272/2020, News item published
 in the "Times of India" dated 20.11.2020 entitled "Six killed as blast tears through Malda
 Plastic recycling factory"). viii. Order dated 18.12.2020, in relation to incident of methane gas leak in a sugar factory
 called Lokenete Bapurao Patil Agro Industries Ltd. in Mohol Taluka of Solapur District,
 Maharashtra on 21.11.2020 resulting in deaths and injuries and other damage (OA No.
 274/2020, News item published in the "Indian Express" dated 23.11.2020 entitled
 "Maharashtra: Two Killed, eight injured in methane gas leak in sugar factory").
ix. Order dated 08.01.2021, in relation to Gas Leak in Agro Company (O.A No. 107/2020,
 In RE: News item published in the local daily "Indian Express Sunday Express" dated
 28.06.2020 titled "Gas Leak in Agro Company Claims life of one")
x. Order dated 18.01.2021, in relation to News item published in Navbharat Times dated
 24.12.2020 titled "Gas leaks in IFFCO Plant, 2 Officers dead" (O.A No. 04/2020, In re :  Committees have been constituted for 'Preparation of
 Restoration Plan' through CPC B and District
 Administration, and 'Finalization of Compensation'
  Action is being taken for revamping of industrial
 monitoring mechanism, in line with the previous
 directions of Hon'ble NGT O.A. No. 73/2020, Gas Leak at
 IG Polymers Chemical Plant in RR Venkatapuram
 Village, Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh.  Consideration of the Technical and Administrative/
 Regulatory Framework Recommendations given by High
 Power Committee (HPC), which also include general
 recommendations on operation of hazardous industries/
 industries handling hazardous chemicals as well as
 industries operating in residential areas, is under
 examination. 15. That in light of the actions already initiated by IA
 (Monitoring) division, MoEF&CC for compliance of
 Hon'ble Tribunal's directions with regard to
 'Revamping of Industrial Monitoring Mechanism', a
 response on various actions undertaken is under
 formulation and the same shall be submitted for
 perusal of the Hon'ble Tribunal in the matter of OA
 No 837 of 2018 in the matter of Sandeep Mittal vs
 Union of India ." xxx.................................xxx..................xxx............. 32. In view of frequent accidents resulting in deaths and injuries,
 the Chief Secretaries of all the States/UTs may evolve a
 mechanism to ensure that the companies dealing with
 hazardous substance must forthwith pay compensation for
 deaths and injuries to the victims at least as per Workmen
 Compensation Act, 1923 wherever applicable or the
 principle of restitution laid down in Sarla Verma (supra), National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Pranay Sethi , (2017) 16 SCC
 680 to the victims either directly or through the District Magistrate. 33. Conduct of safety audits of all establishments having
 potential for such accidents may be ensured. All
 States/UTs may also ensure availability of healthcare 55 facilities in the vicinity of such establishments. PCB and
 DM must assess cost of restoration of environment which
 should be recovered from company and spent on such
 restoration. The States and UTs in accordance with 1989
 and 1996 Rules need to step up vigilance, surveillance and
 monitoring to avert such accidents. Preparedness to meet
 such eventualities be ensured. Regular mock drills may be
 ensured in respect of onsite and offsite emergency plans.
 We may also refer to the directions issued by this Tribunal
 to the MoEF&CC and all the States/UTs on the subject of
 strengthening regulatory and oversight measures, vide
 order dated 01.02.2021 in OA 837/2018, Sandeep Mittal vs.
 Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change & Ors ." We note with regret that the State of Gujrat is not shown to

have followed the above directions either for following safety norms

or for payment of compensation. We are not aware of compliance by

other States. We wonder whether the welfare States have no concern

for safety of citizens and are not concerned about compliance of laid

down norms. It appears that the oversight statutory authorities are

not being held accountable for their failure and they continue to

neglect their duties. This needs to be checked by the Chief

Secretaries of all States and the authorities in the Central

Government so that governance deficit in this regard is bridged. 8. The above observations are further fortified by neglect of another

direction of the Tribunal vide order dated 18.12.2020 in OA 272/2020

dealing with the case of death of six persons, including two minors and

serious injuries to four persons, due to explosion in a plastic recycling

factory at Sujapur in Malda, in West Bengal on 1.12.2020. The Tribunal

observed: 9. Accordingly, we confirm the interim findings and hold that the

victims are entitled to compensation for which primary liability is of

the operator of the godown and the State of Gujarat is vicariously

liable due to failure of its authorities in performing their

responsibility of checking hazardous activities being conducted

without requisite safeguards. We direct that the heirs of deceased as

well as the injured may be given compensation as already determined as

an interim measure without prejudice to their remedies for claiming any

higher compensation on any appropriate forum. The scale of interim

compensation in terms of order dated 11.11.2020 will stand revised to

the higher amount as per recommendations of the Committee but if the

Committee has recommended lesser amount, the rate of interim

compensation as per order dated 11.11.2020 will prevail. As directed in

para 11 in the order dated 11.11.2020, this order is without prejudice to

any criminal or other statutory liability in accordance with law. It is

made clear that since one of the deceased was a partner of the firm 57 running the illegal godown (Mr. Mustufa Alubhai Saiyad, as mentioned in

para 4.0 of the report quoted above) in respect of his death, the State

cannot be held liable as he is himself to blame for his illegal hazardous

actions. However, the State is not debarred from making any ex gratia

payment. For death of all other persons and injured, the State will be

liable to pay compensation, without prejudice to its right to recover the

same from the violators of law or erring officers, following due process of

law. The responsibility for compliance will be of the Chief Secretary,

Gujarat, through the District Magistrate, Ahmedabad. In the light of

directions already issued for preventive action by way of compliance of

laid down safety norms, the State of Gujrat needs to take remedial

measures to ensure that such incidents do not occur and hold

accountable persons responsible for failure of the oversight. We also

direct a joint Committee of Director, Industrial Safety and Health (DISH),

Gujarat, and State PCB in coordination with respective Municipal

Corporations and District Magistrates to conduct survey of the entire

State to ascertain if any other such activities are going on, and if so to

take remedial action by way of closing such illegal activities. The State

PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance. The said

Committee may give its report to the Chief Secretary, Gujarat within

three months for further remedial action. 10. We place on record our appreciation for the task executed by the

Committee. This observation may be conveyed to the members of the

Committee by the CPC B. A copy of this report may be kept on the

websites of CPC B as well as the State PCB for the purposes of reference

for atleast six months. 11. All other States/UTs may also take action in terms of earlier

directions quoted in paras 7 and 8 to prevent such tragedies and to take

remedial action if such tragedies take place. The application is disposed of. A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary, Gujarat,

DISH Gujarat, CPC B and State PCB by e-mail for compliance. A copy of this order be also sent to the Chief Secretaries of all

States/UTs for compliance of observations in paras 7, 8 and 11. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 S.K. Singh, JM

 Dr. Nagin Nanda, EM

March 23, 2021
Original Application No. 258/2020
DV 59