PER BENCH 1. These are the bunch of eight appeals filed by the three assesses against the
 consolidated order of The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - 23, New Delhi [
 the ld CIT (A) ] dated 29/12/2017 passed in case of five assesses. The orders of The
 ld CIT (A) was in appeal preferred against the order of The Asst Commissioner of
 Income Tax, Central Circle - 3, New Delhi (The Learned AO) passed under section
 153A read with section 143 (3) of The Income Tax Act, 1961 (The Act ) on
 30/12/2016 for three Assessment Years in case of two assessee and two assessment

 Page | 1
 years in case of Third assessee. These assesses have also raised identical grounds in
 all these eight appeals. 2. We first discuses the facts and proceedings in case of Mr. Brij Bhushan Singal in his
 three appeals. Facts in case of other two assesses are similar. All these three appeals
 of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal also involved similar additions and the learned
 authorized representative of the assessee and the departmental representative also
 put their arguments collectively with respect to other appeals also, therefore, all
 these three appeals of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal and other two assesses are
 disposed of by this common order. 3. In case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal following grounds of appeal in ITA No.
 1415/Del/2018 for the 2013-14:- 4. He raised following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 1416/Del/2018 for the 2014-15:- 5. He raised following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 1417/Del/2018 for the 2015-16:- 6. We first narrate the facts for Assessment Year 13 - 14 in ITA No 1415/Del/2018. The assessee is an individual who filed his original return of income on 31/7/2013
 declaring income of INR 2741440/-. Search and seizure proceedings under section
 132 of The Income Tax Act were conducted in case of the Bhushan Steel Limited
 group concerns on 13/6/2014. Case of the assessee was covered in the said
 operation. As on the date of search, the assessment proceedings were pending for
 the Assessment Year 2013 - 14, the assessment proceedings were abated. Therefore,
 notice under section 153A of The Income Tax Act was issued on 8/9/2014. In
 response to that assessee furnished his return of income on 7/7/2016, at the same
 income, which was shown in the original return of income. Subsequently, the
 statutory notices were issued and the case was scrutinized. 7. During assessment proceedings, the learned assessing officer noted that assessee is
 part of Bushan steel Ltd group. That Group is indulging in suppression of the
 taxable profits on a large scale. Unaccounted income generated has been introduced
 in the books of family members and promoters of the group in the form of tax exempt
 bogus long-term capital gains of crores of rupees by prearranged trading in shares of
 some non- descript listed companies. Further during the pre-search enquiries, it was
 noted that with the help of an accommodation entry provider Shri R.K. Kedia,
 assessee has introduced long-term capital gain in the books of family members for
 investing in the shares of the Bhushan steel Ltd. Therefore, search was conducted
 on Bhushan group and Sri Raj Kumar Kedia simultaneously on 13/6/2014. The
 learned assessing officer noted modus operandi holding it to be a scam vide para
 number 4.2 of his order. As per AO, during the course of search, investigation team
 collected oral evidence and documentary evidences, which proved that bogus long-
 term capital gain was provided to the beneficiaries, i.e. Assessees. The oral evidences
 are the statement of Shri Manish Arora, who is an employee of Shri Raj Kumar
 Kedia, statement of Sri Raj Kumar Kedia, Mr. Ankur Agarwal, employee of Bhushan
 steel Ltd, statement of director of Rander Corp Ltd , Shri Amarchand Ratanlal
 Rander, statement of director of M/S PSIT infrastructure and finance Ltd, statement
 of director of M/s. Anukaran Commercial Enterprises Ltd Shri Kushal Praveen
 Shah, statement of Shri Jagadish Purohit, statement of Sri Suresh Jajodia, and the
 details of exit providers. Based on the above oral information, learned assessing
 officer was of view that prearranged trading in shares of companies has been done in
 which family members of promoters of Bhushan steel group obtained bogus long- Page | 4
 term capital gain. These accommodation entry providers themselves admitted that
 shares of their respective companies were artificially traded to provide bogus long-
 term capital gain to various beneficiaries and Bhushan steel group is one of the
 beneficiaries of bogus long-term capital gain from these scripts. 8. The documentary evidences gathered during the course of search is seized
 documents containing investment details of family members of Bhushan steel group
 in various companies along with payment made to Shri Raj Kumar Kedia and
 transactions of their long-term capital gain earned with his help. Such documentary
 evidences listed such are the Annexure-E and Annexure -A. The learned assessing
 officer noted that material found and seized from the premises of Shri R.K. Kedia
 contains a ledger of one NP (acronym for ―Nehru Place‖ referring to Bhushan steel
 group, since earlier the corporate office of Bhushan steel group was at Nehru Place).
 AO alleged that family members of the assessee are among the beneficiaries of the
 bogus long-term capital gain obtained by prearranged trading in shares of many
 non- descript listed companies through Shri R.K. Kedia. The record of seized
 material was maintained by Shree Manish Arrora who is an employee of Shri Raj
 Kumar Kedia. Therefore, the learned assessing officer noted that these transactions,
 which are recorded in the NP Ledger's matches with the traded transactions details,
 obtained from BSE. In the Ledger, transactions recorded were encoded language and
 a dot (.) has been put after two zeros (00) while recording the transactions. The AO
 gave an instance that on 23/4/2014; Sri Brij Bhushan single sold 15,000 shares of
 M/s. Parag Shilpa at the rate of INR 557.46. Thus, the total amount of transactions
 would be INR 8361917, which was recorded as INR 83619.17. Thereafter the learned
 assessing officer referred data found from the premises of Sri Ankur Agarwal in form
 of ABCD.XLS wherein the sale details of shares were contained. Thereafter, the
 assessing officer prepared a comparative chart showing the details of shares
 recovered from the data of Mr. Ankur Agarwal and compared it with the data of Raj
 Kumar Kedia, which matched. Further, during assessment proceedings, summons
 under section 131 was also issued to Shri Ankur Agarwal on 16/12/2016 to appear
 before the assessing officer on 22/12/2016 against which he filed his retraction on
 20/12/2016 from his statement recorded during the course of search. He did not
 appear on the dates given under section 131 of the act. The assessee was directed to
 produce this person. However, assessee could not. The learned assessing officer
 noted that there is no logical reason given by Mr. Ankur Agarwal for retracting the
 statement recorded during the course of search and such retraction was without
 adducing or leading evidence in support of retraction from admission and without
 establishing that the statement was obtained under pressure or Coercion. Therefore,
 the learned assessing officer rejected his retraction. Thereafter, the learned assessing
 Page | 5
 officer analyzed the financials and the trade data of the companies in which the
assessee has dealt with and earned capital gain stating that they have been abused
for generating illicit long-term capital gain. He analyzed their financial statements to
show that they are not worth the amount at which they are sold. The learned AO
further examined details of the exit providers (who have purchased the shares sold
from the assessee and his family member on the stock exchange) and stated that the
exit providers are companies operated by the entry providers. The learned AO
referred to the statement of Shri Devesh Upadhyay recorded on 30/12/2014.
Thereafter the learned assessing officer also noted that the companies who
purchased shares on the stock exchange platform, which were sold by assessee and
his family members, in their bank statement there are back-to-back transactions
regularly. He noted that there are 3 to 7 layers used to introduce money in their
bank account. The assessing officer was of the view that cash is deposited in many
bank accounts of different entities and from that, it has been subsequently
transferred to many other bank accounts which reached to the bank account of the
exit provider by three to seven layers by banking channels. From these funds,
shares were purchased. Therefore, the AO was of the opinion that bogus paper
entities controlled by the entry operator are providing profitable exit to members of
the assessee and his family by way of introducing unaccounted cash of the family
members of Bhushan steel group through multi layering. Further, the AO issued
notice under section 133 (6) to the various companies who provided exit to the
several persons. Many notices received back un-served or no reply was received. The
learned AO further stated that many of the stockbrokers did not maintain proper
Know Your Customer (KYC) data. Further, many of the beneficiaries of the long-term
capital gain have owned that these are bogus long-term capital gains and paid tax
thereon. The assessing officer further stated that the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (SEBI) has also carried out investigation in few listed companies based on
common trading pattern, identical developments like stock splits, preferential
allotments, insignificant economic activity, and exorbitantly high stock prices with
respect to the 18 companies out of that some of the companies were also in which
the assessee and his family members have been benefited by long-term capital gain.
The learned assessing officer further referred to the order of The Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in case of Redford Global ltd and First financial
services ltd, wherein, interim order dated 19/12/2014 was passed by the SEBI and
assessee along with many other assessees were restrained from trading on
securities. Therefore, the detailed show cause notice on 30/9/2016 was issued.
Assessee submitted his reply on 15/11/2016. The learned AO rejected the same
rebutting the submission of the assessee. Thereafter discussing several judicial
 Page | 6
 precedents and placing strong reliance on the interim orders of SEBI dated
 19/12/2014 held that assessee has obtained bogus long-term capital gain.
 Regarding cross-examination of Exit providers, summonses were issued to 15 parties
 on 19/12/2016 but none appeared. With respect to cross-examination of Shri R K
 Kedia, Shri Manish Arora, Shri Ankur Agarwal etc the learned AO stated that cross-
 examination is required only where there are no documentary evidences and where
 the whole addition is made purely based on the statement of third person. According
 to the AO in this case, solid evidences were found and the statement corroborates
 the evidences found. Ld AO further stated that during the post-search proceedings
 Shri Neeraj singal, main person of Bhushan steel group, was specifically asked to
 cross-examine Sri Raj Kumar Kedia, but he straightway refused in his statement
 dated 24/4/2015. He therefore held that cross-examination is not the right of the
 person. He further stated that natural justice is mistress and not the master of
 justice. It can never be used to defeat the cause of justice and it is used to support
 the cause of justice. Therefore, he held that cross-examination is not relevant and
 not necessary for the finalization of the assessment. He further referred to the
 application of the principle of preponderance of probabilities and made addition to
 the total income shown by the assessee as long-term capital gain as exempt income
 as income from unexplained sources considering detailed discussion made in the
 different chapters of assessment order. He stated that it has been established that
 the assessee indulged in sham transactions to receive back his unaccounted income
 in the garb of exempt long-term capital gain. Therefore, the total long-term capital
 gain of the assessee against this bogus/sham transactions have to be treated as
 unexplained income of the assessee along with unaccounted commission
 expenditure at the rate of 6% of the total long-term capital gain of the year for
 arranging these entries. Therefore, he taxed the total long-term capital gain from
 unexplained source of INR 141495635/- and 6% of net again towards commission
 expenses from unexplained sources and made an addition of INR 149985373/- as
 unexplained income of the assessee. Accordingly, against the returned income of INR
 2741440/- assessee was assessed at INR 1 52726813/-. 9. Aggrieved with the order of the learned AO, assessee preferred appeal before the
 learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - 23, New Delhi. The CIT(A) passed
 the Consolidated order along with 4 other assessee being family members of
 assessee and M/s Bhushan steel Ltd on 29/12/2017 for 5 years, starting from
 assessment year 2010 - 11 to 2015 - 16 in case of various assessee. In case of the
 assessee, appellate order was for 5 years. With respect to the long-term capital gain,
 the assessee submitted that it has not paid any cash to either Shri R.K. Kedia or any
 of his associate and assessee does not know any person by the name of Shri Manish
 Page | 7
 Arora, nor does he have any dealing with him. The learned CIT _A rejected this
contention and stated that assessee knows Mr. R K Kedia and Manish Arrora,
through Mr. Ankur Agarwal. With respect to the soft data seized from Sri Raj Kumar
Kedia and Shri Manish Arora, assessee submitted that appellant is neither aware
nor can be expected to be aware of how any third party has come into possession
of certain information. The learned CIT - A rejected the above contentions and stated
that there are direct as well as circumstantial evidences where Mr. Ankur Agarwal
was in touch of Mr. R. K. Kedia whose data also matched with the data of Mr. Ankur.
The assessee also stated that no credence could be placed on the statement of Mr. R.
K. Kedia, who is changing his statement consistently in taking contradictory stands.
The learned CIT A rejected the same and stated that Shri R. K. Kedia confirmed
contents of statement of Shri Manish Arora. He stated statement is also backed by
the relevant data. He further stated that during the course of search in statement
recorded on 25/4/2015. Shri Neeraj Singal was provided opportunity to cross-
examine Shri R. K. Kedia, Sri Manish Arora, and Sri Ankur Agarwal, which he
refused. Now assessee cannot be aggrieved. With respect to the retraction of
statement of Shri Ankur Agarwal, he stated that assessee did not produce him and
further with the retraction he has not produced any evidence of retraction. The
assessee also stated that Shri Ankur in his submission stated that the pen drive did
not belong to him, but to Mr. R. K. Kedia, the learned C IT A rejected the above
contention. The assessee also stated that investment made by the various family
members of the assessee and assessee himself was under the preferential allotment
and many people invested in those companies with respect to the expectation of
future growth. The learned CIT (A) rejected stating that preferential allotment is
merely a stage-managed affair. With respect to the directors various companies who
were not aware about the activities or composition of Board of Directors of investor
companies for, giving the copies of the statement of those persons along with the
cross-examination, the learned CIT (A) stated that the statements were recorded by
the officer of the income tax department during the course of their duties and there
is no contemplation of providing cross-examination. Therefore, the statement said to
be taken on the face value. He further stated that it is not the case of the appellant
that appellant requested the assessing officer to issue summons to these persons
and the learned assessing officer has refused to do so. Since the assessing officer is
not recorded the statements, the argument that cross-examination opportunity was
not given is having no legal force. With respect to the contention of the assessee, that
the shares were sold on the online platform of the Bombay stock exchange, where
assessee does not have any awareness about the ultimate purchaser of the share,
the learned CIT (A) rejected the same stating that there is overwhelming evidence to
 Page | 8
 prove that the transactions were stage-managed. With respect to the argument of the
 assessee that no cash has ever been paid by the appellant to the various parties,
 either directly or through an intermediary, he held that shares of the companies
 from whom long-term capital gain has been earned are allotted to the appellant by
 way of a preferential allotment and assessee does not have any connection with
 those companies who purchased the shares. The learned Commissioner of income
 tax appeals rejected the argument of the assessee stating that these are the stage-
 managed affairs. The assessee also contested that the parties to move notices under section 133 (6) were issued summons were issued under section 131 of the act does
 not prejudice to any degree or any manner affect the appellant. Since the issue of
 complying with the notices by those parties is a matter of that person's individual
 discretion over which any third person or the appellant cannot be expected to have
 any controlled, the learned CIT (A) held that these are the stage-managed affair. With
 respect to the claim of the assessee that R. K. Kedia and Manish Arora are not
 connected persons, changing their stands and additions are made on that basis,
 opportunity to cross-examine them was not given. The learned CIT (A) stated that
 were originally Mr. Neeraj Singal was granted an opportunity of cross-examination,
 but he declined therefore, now the assessee could not claim that no cross of
 examination was granted. There are also certain unsold shares of some companies
 lying with the family members of the assessee and based on that the learned
 Commissioner of income tax appeals held that it proves that these companies are not
 worth sale in the market and therefore those remained unsold. Accordingly, he
 upheld the addition of long-term capital gain claim by the assessee as bogus and
 sham. He further upheld the addition under section 68 of the above sum confirming
 assessment order passed by the learned assessing officer. Several judicial precedents
 were relied up on. Decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, Nagpur bench in case
 of Sanjay Bimal Chand Jain dated 10/4/2017 was relied upon heavily. He further
 upheld the addition of 6% because of payment of commission in cash for obtaining
 the above stated long-term capital gain in various companies. Accordingly, he
 dismissed the appeals of the assessee. The appeal with respect to the appellant are
 dealt with at page number 458- 477 of the appellate order vide para number 148 -
 165 of the order. Therefore, assessee aggrieved with the order of the learned CIT- A
 has preferred an appeal before us. 10. Before commencing his arguments Ld AR vehemently stated that at present the
 appeals of all the assessee are pertaining to AY 2013-14 onwards and appeals for AY
 2010-11 to 2012-13 have already been heard by G bench on 2/8/2018. Detailed
 arguments with respect to all the issues involved in this appeal are heard by the
 bench. He further stated that facts and issues are common for all these six years
 Page | 9
 except that those were unabated AYs and these are abated AYs. He submitted that if
 the coordinate bench in those cases held that the evidences relied up on by AO are
 not incriminating will result in to deletion of Addition for those years However ,
 those finding will equally apply to these Assessment years' cases. If it decides
 otherwise, then the arguments made hereunder once again may be considered
 afresh. He stated that identical arguments are made in those appeals, which would
 be made in these appeals also. 11. The Ld CIT DR agreed with the arguments of the assessee and stated that if in those
 cases the evidences are held to be not incriminating, then his arguments placed may
 also be considered afresh. 12. At the time of the passing of these orders, the coordinate bench has passed the
 orders in case of these assessee for AY 2010-11 to 2012-13 9 3 AYs on 31-10-2018
 in ITA Nos. 1412 to 1414 / del/ 2018, ITA No 1476 to 1478/del/2018, ITA No.
 1482/del/2018 and ITA No 1485 to 1487/Del/2018 on 31/10/2018 It held that
 there are no incriminating materials unearthed during the course of search by
 which the additions can be made in the hands of the assessee. The coordinate bench
 has also given its finding on the issue of cross examination of witnesses and use of
 third party data. That order binds us on the principles of judicial discipline.
 Therefore while deciding the issues in these appeals, we are duty bound to consider
 and follow it, wherever found appropriate and relevant. 13. Commencing his arguments on the various issues, The learned authorized
 representative has also placed on record the detailed combined written submission
 with respect to four individual assessees involved in the order of the learned CIT (A).
 The major arguments are as under:- Page | 10
 however, no such opportunity was provided to the Assesses. The Assesses
 were directed to appear on certain dates to cross-examine such persons but
 on the appointed dates, none of the parties were made available to the
 Assesses for cross-examination although the Assesses were duly present on
 the specified dates for cross-examination through their AR.
iii. It is submitted that most of the shares of the companies on which LTCG has
 been earned were allotted to the Assesses by way of preferential allotment.
 One of the grounds taken by the ld. A.O. in doubting the transactions
 carried out by the Assesses herein and alleging personal connection between
 the Assesses and the promoters of the said companies/ entry providers is that
 the shares of the said companies were allotted by way of preferential
 allotment. In this regard, it is submitted that the issuance of shares on
 preferential basis was in consonance with applicable S.E.B.I regulations and
 Listing Agreement norms. It is clarified here that the fact that the shares of
 the companies were allotted to the Assesses by way of preferential allotment
 does not signify any connection of the Assesses with the companies. In terms
 of the applicable provisions of the Companies Act , a preferential allottee of
 shares is not required to attend any Board meetings, there being a complete
 divergence between the management and ownership, a company being a body
 corporate, having a separate legal entity. The process of preferential allotment
 which is invariably spread by the word of mouth, the possibility of personal
 contact between the promoters/management and preferential allottees is
 miniscule. iv. Various statutory/regulatory bodies such as S.E.B.I, the Stock Exchanges etc.
 are involved in the process of preferential allotment of shares as well as the
 follow up of public issue. The entire process involves a multi-stage, rigorous,
 coordinated and time bound process involving comprehensive due-diligence,
 vetting of documents, background check of promoters, compliance with well-
 laid out guidelines and parameters etc. A company intending to go in for a
 public issue can allot shares by way of preferential allotment only after getting
 the approval of S.E.B.I. In the entire process, S.E.B.I also approves the list of
 persons/ entities to which shares are to be allotted on preferential basis, also
 incorporating therein the terms and conditions including, lock in, if any
 subject to which the shares are to be issued. In the given backdrop, the
 Assesses herein cannot be faulted for relying on a commercial proposition,
 which was duly compliant with law, including approval of S.E.B.I. To
 disregard the activities conducted by a Company as dummy when almost its
 entire spectrum of activities has been pre-scrutinized and approved by various
 Page | 11
 agencies, including the capital market regulator S.E.B.I would be disregarding
 the functioning of bodies operating under a law enacted by the Parliament of
 India. v. The shares allotted by the companies were listed and traded on the stock
 exchange. These shares were subsequently credited to the respective DEMAT
 Accounts of the Assesses herein. After being held by the Assesses for a period
 of more than 12 months, their sales were affected through registered brokers
 on the NSE/BSE in accordance with prescribed regulatory procedures, rules,
 and applicable laws whereby both the limbs of the transaction viz. purchase
 and sale of shares were duly authenticated. The sale proceeds for the sale of
 shares were received through normal and regular banking channels from the
 stock broker through whom the shares had been sold, who, in turn received
 the same from the Stock Exchange through its designated payout mechanism
 and stood duly credited to the respective Assesses' bank accounts.
vi. The shares in question were of listed companies and were sold at prevailing
 market rates through the Bombay Stock Exchange Online Trading (BOLT)
 platform of the Bombay Stock Exchange and all the payments against the
 same were received through account payee cheques/RTGS from the stock
 broker. It may be mentioned that under the online web-based trading
 platforms of the relevant exchanges as per the prevalent procedures, the
 broker only acts as the intermediary. There is no physical interaction between
 the parties and accordingly, the identities of the counter-party (whether buyer
 or seller) is not available thereby eliminating the possibility of any collusion
 between the parties. The entire sales of shares were effected through web-
 based platforms of the relevant exchanges in which the seller can in no way
 sell the shares to a particular entity/individual & vice versa; where the trade
 is executed when the bid price offered by the buyer matches with the offer
 price of the seller and vice versa; and the entire transaction is a demand and
 supply game over which neither the buyer nor the seller has any control. The
 transactions carried out by the Assesses stand fully documented and
 evidenced by contract notes/ bills of the relevant brokers issued in the form
 and manner as prescribed by the regulatory authorities' copies of which are
 duly enclosed in Paper Books filed. vii. It is earnestly submitted that the Assesses herein were neither aware nor
 could be aware of the persons/ entities buying the shares sold by them. There
 was no way formal, informal, or even collusive whereby they could control the
 sales of shares to ensure their sales to a particular person/entity. The
 Page | 12
 Assesses herein did not have any kind of relationship or control over the said
 companies save as that of passive investor and were not involved in the
 management thereof at any point of time. The Assesses had no role
 whatsoever in the capital market operations of the scripts or influencing to
 any degree or extent their stock market prices. The transactions were entered
 into by the Assesses in the capacity of stock market investor on the basis of
 market gossip, information and feedback received from various professionals,
 friends, relatives & other acquaintances who were actively involved and had
 adequate knowledge of securities market, the Assesses' perception and
 anticipation as to future price movements etc. with a view to earn profits from
 the appreciation, whether long term/ short term in the prices of the
 underlying shares. In order to evidence said transactions, all relevant
 documentary evidences in the form of share purchase documents, DEMAT
 Accounts, Share certificates, contract notes and bank statements evidencing
 the relevant entries regarding receipts against sale of shares etc. were duly
 filed before the Revenue Authorities. The same are also placed in PB-1A, PB-
 1B, PB-2A, PB-2B, PB-3A, PB-3B & PB-4 filed before the Hon'ble Bench
viii. Regarding Third party statements/ statement of employee of BSL recorded
 u/s 133A/132(4) AR submitted that As discussed earlier, in making the
 impugned additions, the A.O has predominantly relied on statements of
 various persons such as Sri R.K. Kedia (alleged entry provider), Manish Arora
 (employee of Sri R.K. Kedia), alleged entry and exit operators, directors of
 penny stock companies etc. recorded by various officers of the Department.
 The Assesses herein made a categorical request for allowing them an
 opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose statements were intended to
 be used against them by the Ld. A.O; however, no such opportunity was
 provided to the Assesses. The Assesses were directed to appear on certain
 dates to cross-examine such persons but on the appointed dates, none of the
 parties were made available to the Assesses for cross-examination although
 the Assesses were duly present on the specified dates for cross-examination
 through their Authorised Representative. Copies of letters requesting cross-
 examination are enclosed at pages 434-445 of PB-6. Thus, the impugned
 assessments for A.Ys 2013-14 to 2015-16 in the Assesses' case were framed
 by the Ld. A.O in gross violation of principles of natural justice. ix. It is trite law that if an Authority is relying on the testimony of a witness, the
 assessee is required to be afforded an opportunity to cross-examine him

 Page | 13
 failing which the testimony cannot be utilized against the assessee. If this
 procedure is not followed, then there would be a case of denial of natural
 justice to the assessee and the addition on the basis of such statements/
 material cannot stand. x. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs.
 Commissioner of Central Excise (2015) 281 CTR 241 (SC) (pages 271-274 of
 PB-5) has held as under: examination. That apart, the Adjudicating Authority simply relied upon
 the price list as maintained at the depot to determine the price for the
 purpose of levy of excise duty. Whether the goods were, in fact, sold to the
 said dealers/witnesses at the price which is mentioned in the price list
 itself could be the subject matter of cross-examination. Therefore, it was
 not for the Adjudicating Authority to presuppose as to what could be the
 subject matter of the cross-examination and make the remarks as
 mentioned above. We may also point out that on an earlier occasion when
 the matter came before this Court in Civil Appeal No. 2216 of 2000, order
 dated 17.03.2005 was passed remitting the case back to the Tribunal
 with the directions to decide the appeal on merits giving its reasons for
 accepting or rejecting the submissions.‖

xi. Therefore, as per clear dictum of the Hon'ble Apex Court, failure on the part of
 the A.O to allow cross-examination of witnesses whose statements were relied
 upon for making impugned assessment is a serious flaw, which makes the
 assessment, order a nullity. In the case of Kishinchand Chellaram (AIR 1980

 Page | 14
 SC 2117) (pages 275-284 of PB-5), the Hon'ble SC on the aspect of cross
 examination held as follows:  CIT Vs. S.M Aggarwal 292 ITR 43: Held that statement made by the
 assessee's daughter cannot be said to be relevant or admissible evidence
 against the assessee, since the assessee was not given any opportunity to
 cross examine her and even from the statement, no conclusion can be
 drawn that the entries made on the relevant page belongs to the assessee
 and represents his undisclosed income. xvi. As regards the onus of ensuring the presence of the witness, kind attention is
 craved to the judgment of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional Delhi High Court in Principal CIT, Delhi 2 Vs. Best Infrastructure (India) Pvt. Ltd. & Others in ITA
 Nos. 11/2017 to 22/2017 (pages 151-171 of PB-5) wherein it was
 emphatically held that the onus of ensuring presence of the witness for cross-
 examination is on the Revenue and that such onus cannot be shifted to the
 Assessee. It was further held that failure on the part of the Revenue to
 produce the witness for cross-examination would be sufficient to discard the
 statement. The relevant excerpt of the order is reproduced hereunder to
 facilitate ready reference: search investigations/ assessment proceedings wherein Sri R.K. Kedia has
 been taking contradictory stands. The statement recorded u/s 132(4) on
 13.06.2014 was later on retracted by Sri R.K. Kedia in course of post search
 investigation proceedings on 14.10.2014 and which retraction was further re-
 retracted by him again on 26.03.2015 during post search investigation
 proceedings (page 85 of the CIT(A)'s order). Given the shifting stands and
 inconsistencies displayed by Sri R.K. Kedia, no degree of reliance can be
 placed on his statement. Copy of retraction and re-retraction/withdrawal of
 retraction filed by Sri R.K. Kedia is enclosed at pages 446-451 and pages 452-
 455 respectively of PB-6. xix. Reference in this connection is craved to the judgment of the Hon'ble Kolkata
 High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Eastern Commercial Enterprises (1994) 201
 ITR 103 (pages 294-299 of PB-5) wherein under similar circumstances, the
 Hon'ble High Court held that no reliance can be placed on the testimony of a
 person indulging in double speaking and taking contradictory stands on
 different occasions and that such conduct neutralizes his value as a witness.
 Held as under: Page | 22
 xxiii. Further, as far as statements of Directors of alleged penny stock companies,
 alleged entry and exit providers (other than R.K. Kedia and Manish Arora) are
 concerned, apart from the fact that these persons were not made available to
 the Assessees for cross-examination, it is submitted that these do not directly
 implicate/incriminate/name the Assessees herein as illegal beneficiaries to
 alleged bogus LTCG in the shares of the said companies. The said statements
 only explain the general modus operandi with respect to the shares of the said
 companies being allegedly utilized for the purpose of providing
 accommodation entries in certain cases. No concrete evidence has been
 unearthed in course of search in the cases of the Assessees herein to
 conclusively establish that the Assessees herein had booked bogus LTCG or
 that their own unaccounted money was routed through transactions in shares
 of the said scrips or that they had made any compensatory payments to the
 buyers of the said scrips. xxiv. Further, the said statements of the Directors of Penny Stock Companies viz. M/s. Anukaran Commercial Enterprises Ltd., Rander Corporation Ltd. & PSIT
 Infrastructure & Finance Ltd. and few alleged entry and exit providers were
 recorded in course of survey u/s 133A of the Act. These statements do not
 have any nexus to anything incriminating found in course of search at the
 premises of the Assessees herein. Therefore, apart from the fact that these
 statements do not directly incriminate the assessee, such statements recorded
 u/s 133A as per the decisions cited earlier do not have evidentiary value and
 cannot on a standalone basis be used to draw adverse inference against the
 Assessees herein in their assessments u/s 153A of the Act unless
 corroborated by incriminating materials seized in course of search in the
 Assessees' case. xxv. Further, the A.O has also heavily relied upon the statement of Sri Ankur
 Agarwal, an employee of BSL, recorded in course of search at his premises
 under extreme pressure and undue stress allegedly stating that the Assessees
 herein had obtained bogus LTCG by pre-arranged trading in shares of certain
 non-descript listed companies. The said statement was however, later on
 retracted by the maker of the statement i.e. Sri Ankur Agarwal on 20.12.2016
 before the Ld. A.O. Such retracted statement cannot be held as
 evidence/reliable material so as to fasten exorbitant liability on the Assessees
 herein. It is earnestly submitted that the said statement was made by an
 Page | 23
 employee of BSL, who is a third person insofar as the Assessees are
 concerned. The said statement was admittedly not in the nature of an
 ‗admission' or ‗confession' made by the Assessees herein u/s 132(4) but an
 adverse statement or allegation made against the Assessees by a third person.
 Their Lordship in the case of L.K. Advani Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation on 1st April, 1997 (1997 IIIAD Delhi 53, 1997 CriLJ 2559, 1997 (4) Crimes 1,
 66 (1997) DLT 618, 1997 (41) DRJ 274, (1997) 116 PLR 1, 1997 RLR 292)
 held at para 89 that ―I am tempted here to cite a few lines from Murphy on
 Evidence, page 180 ―At common law, an admission made by one party is
 evidence against the maker of the statement, but not against any other person
 implicated by it.‖ .‖ Thus, an ‗admission' made by a person u/s 132(4) can
 only be used as evidence against the person who makes it. However, insofar
 as adverse statements of third persons/ parties are concerned, as clearly held
 by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs.
 Commissioner of Central Excise (2015) 281 CTR 241 (SC) (supra) and host of
 other decisions of the Hon'ble High Courts cited earlier, such statements can
 only be relied upon by the Department in drawing adverse inference against
 the assessee after allowing the assessee an opportunity of cross-examining
 the said person. xxvi. Reference is craved to the judgment of the Hon'ble Mumbai ITAT in the case of
 Straptex India (P) Ltd. Vs. DCIT [2003] 84 ITD 320 (Mum) (pages 337 to 352 of
 PB-5) wherein the Hon'ble ITAT opined on the need for providing the
 opportunity of cross examination by the A.O in the manner as follows: xxx. In conclusion, it is submitted that statements of third parties which have not
 been subjected to cross-examination by the Assessees or which have been
 subsequently retracted by the maker do not have any referral/ evidentiary
 value insofar as the Assessees are concerned and cannot, in the absence of
 corroborative evidence, form the basis of making additions in the assessments
 of the Assessees u/s 153A of the Act. 14. Regarding Third party statements/ statement of employee of BSL recorded u/s
 133A / 132(4) it was submitted that they could not to be used without cross-
 examination for following reasons. i. The A.O has also placed strong reliance on hard/soft data seized from
 premises of Sri R.K. Kedia and pen drive seized from residential premises of
 Sri Ankur Agarwal in course of search operations carried out in their cases.
 However, admittedly, such data was not corroborated by any incriminating
 materials/ documents found in course of search actions at the premises of
 the Assesses herein. At the outset, it is clarified that these hard/soft data/
 pen-drive were not seized from the possession and control of the Assesses
 Page | 26
 and have not been shown to belong to the Assesses herein. Accordingly,
 presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C w.r.t these seized materials is not applicable
 to the Assesses herein. ii. That, before going into the legal connotation w.r.t the evidentiary value of
 documents seized from premises of third parties, the following factual
 scenario pertaining to the nature of data seized from premises of Sri Ankur
 Agarwal & Sri R.K. Kedia need to be emphasized: Page | 27
 c. Admittedly, the said pen drive was seized from the residential premises
 of Sri Ankur Agarwal. Sir Ankur Agarwal, apart from dealing in shares
 on behalf of the Assessees herein (entries w.r.t which were found
 recorded in ABCD xls. sheet) may have been involved in several other
 activities and transactions in his personal capacity and/or on behalf of
 third parties totally unconnected with the Assessees and may have, at
 his free will, made notings with respect thereto in his pen drive (as
 allegedly contained in Job.xls. sheet and Comm.xls. sheet). Since the
 said pen drive was maintained by Sri Ankur Agarwal and was seized
 from his possession and control, the Assessees had no control over the
 entries recorded therein. In the absence of clear mention in the pen-
 drive or establishment of a definite link thereof with the transactions
 carried out by the Assessees herein, it cannot be blandly presumed or
 alleged that all the entries in the said pendrive relate to the Assessees.
d. Without prejudice to the above, it is further submitted that since the
 said pen drive was not found or seized from the possession and control
 of the Assessees in course of search in their cases, the presumption u/s
 132(4A) / 292C regarding the ownership and correctness of the contents
 thereof is not applicable to the Assessees herein. The Assessees are not
 aware of the reason why the names of few alleged entry operators or the
 notings against their names appeared in the said pen-drive. Clearly,
 these entries do not relate to the Assessees. Since the said pen drive
 belongs to Ankur Agarwal and was seized from his possession & control
 in course of search at his residential premises, presumption u/s
 132(4A) / 292C would be operable only against Sri Ankur Agarwal and
 not against the Assessees herein. e. The Ld. CIT(A) has also at pages 167-169 of the appellate order
 extracted certain data allegedly seized from the premises of Sri R.K.
 Kedia (‗NP Ledger') and tried to correlate the same with the entries found
 recorded in ABCD xls. sheet extracted from the pen-drive of Sri Ankur
 Agarwal. In this regard, it is worthwhile to mention that the said entries
 extracted by the Ld. CIT(A) do not in any manner reveal/prove any
 unwarranted dealings in shares of the impugned companies or indicate
 the exchange of unaccounted cash or payment of any unaccounted
 commission by the Assessees. Insofar as the entries extracted by the Ld.
 CIT(A) in his appellate order from the data allegedly seized from R.K.
 Kedia are concerned, the same merely depict the regular purchase and

 Page | 28
 sale of shares carried out by the Assessees herein and do not indicate
 any unaccounted exchange of cash between the Assessees and the said
 party. The Assessees herein are neither concerned nor have any control
 over the data data maintained by Third parties who are totally
 unconnected with the Assessees. Moreover, it should not be lost sight of
 that the Assessees herein were not allowed an opportunity of cross-
 examination of author of the said data and accordingly such data does
 not have any referral value insofar as the cases of the present Assessees
 are concerned. iii. It is well settled by a plethora of judgments that addition cannot be made in
 the hands of an assessee on the basis of entries in books of third parties in
 the absence of any corroborative evidence. Attention in this regard is craved
 to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Central Bureau of
 Investigation Vs. V.C. Shukla & Ors (1998) AIR 1406 (SC) (pages 353-374 of
 PB-5), wherein certain diaries, small note book and various loose papers were
 found and seized from the premises of Mr. S.K. Jain of New Delhi. In those
 diaries/loose papers, the names of V.C. Shukla and L.K. Advani were found
 recorded. The CBI charge-sheeted those persons, namely, Shri Shukla and
 Shri Advani under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . Under the given
 facts, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that the entries in those diaries/loose
 papers could not be used against Shri Advani or Shri Shukla but could only
 be used against Shri Jain and may be proved as admission by him. This in
 other words means that the addition cannot be made in the hands of the
 assessee on the basis of entries in the books of account of third parties in
 absence of any corroborative evidence. The relevant excerpts of the S.C.
 Judgment in this regard, are as follows: x. It is earnestly submitted that the documents found at the premises of Ankur
 Agarwal (which only goes to substantiate the genuineness of the share
 transactions carried out by the Assessees and does not contain anything
 incriminating against the Assessees) and Mr. R.K. Kedia, cannot on a
 standalone basis be considered sufficient evidence to implicate the Assessees
 involved. And in this regard, attention is once again directed to the judgment
 of the Delhi H.C. in Anil Khandelwal (supra) wherein it was opined (at para 5)
 as under: xii. That having elucidated the settled law with respect to documents found in
 the premises of a third party, further elaboration is required onto the Law of

 Page | 36
 possession and control u/s 132(4A) / 292C , although the same has been
established and clarified in the judgments above as well. Various Courts have
time and again held that presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C is available only in
respect of the person from whose possession the documents/ papers are
seized. It cannot be applied against a third party and hence, no addition can
be made on the basis of the evidence found with a third party. In this regard,
kindly consider the following decisions: 352 of PB-5): In this case there was search at the premises of Shri
 Niranjan Shah, in which a computer floppy was found. On the basis
 of the contents of the above floppy, the Revenue held that the
 assessee had borrowed the money in cash which was denied by the
 assessee. In support of its contention, the Revenue has relied upon
 s. 132(4A). Under the given facts, the Hon'ble Mumbai ITAT held as
 under (para 7): We find that similar view was taken by the Tribunal, Ahmedabad
 Bench 'C', in the case of Prarthana Construction (P) Ltd. (supra)
 wherein it was held : "The presumption under the provisions of s.
 132(4A) would in any case not be applicable to a third party from
 whose possession such papers and documents have not been found
 by the Revenue". In view of above, we have no hesitation to hold
 that the presumption under s. 132(4A) is applicable only against the
 person from whose possession books of account or other documents
 were found and not against any other person. (iii) Whether the presumption under s. 132(4A) is conclusive: In our
 opinion, the presumption under s. 132(4A) is a rebuttable
 presumption and not a conclusive one. Certainly, the burden to
 rebut the presumption is upon the person against whom the
 presumption is applicable. While taking the above view, we derive
 support from the decision of Hon'ble Kerala High Court in the case
 of ITO vs. T. Abdul Majid (1987) 64 CTR (Ker) 266 : (1988) 169 ITR
 440 (Ker).‖

(2) Pradeep Amrut Lal Runwal v. Tax Recovery Officer, [2014] 47
 taxmann.com 293 (Pune - Trib.) - wherein it was held: 132(4A) could be used only against the person from whose premises
 the documents are found and not against the person whose name
 appears in the seized papers. 5.5 In this case, the addition has been made on the basis of the
 documents found with Dhariwal Group and thus, the presumption
 u/s. 132(4A) could not be used against the assessee since no
 incriminating documents were found with it. In the case of Addl. CIT
 v. Miss Lata Mangeshkar [1974] 97 ITR 696 (Bom), the addition was
 made in the hands of the assessee on the basis of the entries in the
 books of third persons. Hon'ble Bombay High Court held that such
 addition could not be made only on the basis of the notings in the
 books of third persons. The facts of the present case are covered by
 the decision of Miss Lata Mangeshkar (supra). It is a settled legal
 position that the decision of jurisdictional High Court is binding on
 all authorities below it. Thus, the reliance placed by the Assessing
 Officer on the loose papers is not justified at all. Therefore, the
 question of making any addition is not justified in the absence of
 other corroborative evidence to that effect. (3) ACIT v. Amit D Irshid [IT Appeal No.988 (PN) of 2011, dated 22-4-
 2013]: The ITAT, Pune Bench held that presumption u/s. 134(4A) is
 available only against the person from whose possession the
 document is found and not against the third person. In the absence
 of clinching evidence against the third person as stated above, no
 action could be taken against him. In such a situation, the
 Assessing Officer was not justified to make addition in question in
 assessee's case. In view of above, we are of the view that the
 addition made by the Assessing Officer is not justified and the same
 is directed to be deleted.‖

(4) Prarthana Construction (P.) Ltd., Vs. DCIT [2001] 118 TAXMAN 112
 (AHD.) (MAG.): Held that loose papers and documents seized from
 premises of third parties and statement recorded at the back of
 assessee without it being afforded opportunity to interrogate the
 said documents and without bringing on record any supporting
 evidence, could not be made the basis for addition undisclosed
 income in hands of the assessee. The presumption under the
 provisions of section 132(4A) would not be applicable to a third
 party from whose possession such papers and documents have not
 been found by the Revenue. ( 5) Rama Traders Vs. First ITO (1998) 25 ITO 599 (Pat.) (TM): It was
 held that no addition could be made on the presumption raised by section 132(4A) , in the hands of the assessee where in the books of
 another firm, certain figures were found showing the purchases
 made by the assessee. (6) ACIT Vs. Kishore Lal Balwani Rai (2007) 17 SOT 380 (Chd.): Held
 that though the diary seized enabled the revenue to presume that
 its contents are true, such presumption is available only against the
 person to whom it belongs and this is a rebuttable presumption. Page | 39
 (7) ACIT Vs. Prabhat Oil Mills (1995) 52 TTJ 533 (Ahd.): It was held
 that mere entries in the accounts of a third party were not sufficient
 to prove that the assessee indulged in such transactions. (8) Sheth Akshay Pushpavadan Vs. DCIT (2010) 130 TTJ 42 (Ahd. UO): Further, there was no material to say that such seized material
 related to the assessee for any of his activities. The assessee also
 pointed out that such loose papers were printed account papers and
 on top of it is written "Trial Data" and that assessee had no
 knowledge as to who has written or printed the same. 11.3 The CIT(A) has considered the submissions put forth by the
 assessee and found that there was no material brought on record to
 establish that the seized papers belonged to the assessee. The CIT(A)
 also found that the seized documents do not indicate who is the
 recipient of the amounts mentioned and in what connection the
 money was paid. According to the CIT(A), merely because there is an
 account appearing in the account books of the assessee in the name
 of Mr. Suresh Agarwal, it would not lead to an assumption that the
 seized document reflect transactions between assessee and Mr.
 Suresh Agarwal. In fact, the CIT(A) infers that the document reflects
 transaction between Mr. Bharat G. Shah and Mr. Suresh Agarwal, as
 the document was found in the possession of Bharat G. Shah. Under
 these circumstances, CIT(A) has deleted the addition in the hands of
 the assessee. 11.4 Before us, the ld. Departmental Representative pointed out that
 the employee from whom the impugned loose papers were found is a
 trusted employee of the assessee and the notings in the seized paper
 showed that it pertain to the assessee. It was, therefore, contended
 that the addition has been wrongly deleted by the CIT(A).
 11.5 On the other hand, the ld. Representative for the assessee
 pointed out that the CIT(A) was justified in deleting the addition as
 there was no material to link the said seized document with the
 transactions undertaken by the assessee with Mr. Suresh Agarwal;
 which were duly accounted for in the account books. Page | 41
 11.6 We have carefully considered the rival submissions. Quite
 clearly the seized paper in question was found from the premises of
 Mr. Bharat G. Shah, who is an employee of the assessee. Therefore,
 the primary onus was on Mr. Bharat G. Shah to explain the contents
 of the document so as to justify the inference of the Assessing Officer
 that it reflected unaccounted transactions of the assessee, and, such
 an onus does not appear to have been discharged, having regard to
 the material on record. Even otherwise, we do not find any infirmity
 in the conclusion of the CIT(A) that there is no material to connect
 the assessee with such loose papers. Therefore, under these
 circumstances, we find no reasons to interfere with the conclusion of
 the CIT(A) in deleting the impugned addition. The order of CIT(A) is
 hereby affirmed and accordingly Revenue fails on Grounds of appeal
 Nos.9 & 10 also.‖

xiv. In the instant case, as discussed supra, the pen-drive seized from the
 residential premises of employee of BSL, Sri Ankur Agarwal, does not contain
 anything incriminating against the Assessees herein. The pen-drive only goes
 to substantiate the regular purchase and sale transactions in shares of the
 Assessees herein for a period of 2.5 months. The same does not contain any
 entry pertaining to receipt/payment of cash/ commission by the Assessees to
 prove that the transactions in shares were bogus/ sham. Further, with
 regard to the names of the alleged entry providers mentioned therein, as
 stated earlier, since the said pen drive belongs to Sri Ankur Agarwal and was
 seized from his possession & control, presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C is
 operable only against Sri Ankur Agarwal. The Assessees herein are neither
 aware of the reason why names of the alleged entry operators feature in the
 said pen-drive nor are they concerned with the entries recorded therein.
 Further, the alleged statement made against the Assessees by Sri Ankur
 Agarwal was retracted by him, which as per decisions cited earlier,
 neutralizes his value as a witness. xv. Reference is further craved to the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi Tribunal in
 DCIT v. Bhola Nath Radha Krishna (ITA No.5149/Del/2012) (pages 309-315
 of PB-5) wherein the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal has opined as under: ........ No corroborative evidence was found while conducting a
consequential search on the appellant's premises. 6.3 The alleged transactions noted on the loose slips were not
handwritten by the appellant nor have his initials or signatures so as to
suggest his involvement in the same. Moreover, the A.O. while using
the statements of the third party should have allowed the appellant to
cross examine such third party in order to use the same as evidence.
This was not done despite request from appellant for cross
examination. As has been held in the case of Kishin Chand Chela Ram (supra) by the Hon'ble Apex Court that any addition made on the basis
of statement by a Third Party without affording an opportunity for
rebuttal or cross examination to the assessee is perverse. It was
therefore the obligation of the A.O. to allow the appellant to cross
examine Sh. Sohan Raj Mehta and head of RMD Group in the interest
of natural justice before embarking on a final view in this matter. In Elite Developers Vs. DCIT (2000) 73 ITR 379 (Nag) it was held that
where the seized documents evidencing receipt of money by the
assessee were not speaking documents as they were ambiguous and
did not contain any narration or description about different figures
noted thereon and the department having failed to bring on record any
material or evidence to corroborate allegations regarding receipt of
money, then the presumption on the basis of the documents could not
be raised. In ACIT v/s Prabhat Oil Mills (1995) 52 TTJ (Ahd) it has been held that
mere entries in the account to third parties were not sufficient to prove
that the assessee indulged in such transactions. 6.4 The appellant had alleged that the addition has been made merely
on the basis of the statements of Shri Mehta who had retracted his own
statement subsequently. Accordingly, a letter was sent to the A.O. to
clarify the issue. Even on a request made by the appellant (as is evident
from the assessment order) a copy thereof was not provided to the
appellant and this matter (of retraction) was not brought on record.
The A.O. has sent here reply stating and admitting the fact that original
statement of Shri Mehta was retracted by him but subsequently re-
retracted the statement confirming the original. The grounds for re-
retraction was that the obligations and the sum of money offered by
RMD Group to Shri Mehta were not honoured. Since the same was not
paid to him, he had chosen to withdraw his retraction. To this the
appellant's A.R. has vehemently stated that frequent retractions of
statement by Shri Mehta undermines the credibility of its genuineness
and such doubtful statement given and retracted and again withdrawn
on flimsy grounds of money not been paid by RMD Group invalidates
such statement ab-initio. I agree with the appellant that keeping in mind the principles of natural
justice the A.O. should have at least provided the Retraction of the
original statement to the appellant at the assessment stage for rebuttal.
Frequent retraction has definitely undermined the credibility of
statement and appears motivated....‖ 7. After considering the arguments of both the sides and the facts of
the case, we do not find any infirmity in the above order of learned
 Page | 44
 CIT(A). The addition has been made on the basis of certain chits found
 from Shri Sohan Raj Mehta and his statement. Admittedly, the
 assessee has no dealing with Shri Sohan Raj Mehta. The assessee is
 supplying goods (Supari) to RMD Group who are manufacturing
 Gutkha. Shri Sohan Raj Mehta is C&F agent for Karnataka region of
 RMD Group. The search had taken place at the assessee's business
 premises as well as at the business premises of RMD Group. No
 evidence of any unrecorded sale by the assessee or unrecorded
 purchase by RMD Group was found. Thus, when, despite search at the
 premises of seller and buyer, no evidence of any unrecorded sale or
 purchase is found, in our opinion, merely because in the chits found at
 the premises of some third party with whom the assessee has no
 business dealing, it cannot be presumed that the assessee is making
 sales outside books. Moreover, as per chits found from Shri Sohan Raj
 Mehta, the payment made to the assessee is only `9 lakhs and not `9
 crores. The department has also relied upon the statement of Shri
 Sohan Raj Mehta. It was pointed out by the learned counsel that Shri
 Sohan Raj Mehta retracted his statement. However, as per Revenue,
 Shri Sohan Raj Mehta has retracted his retraction affirming the original
 statement. On these facts, the learned CIT(A) has come to the
 conclusion that the statement of Shri Sohan Raj Mehta cannot be relied
 upon because he is frequently retracting his statement. Moreover, a
 statement of a third party cannot be used against the assessee unless
 the assessee is allowed an opportunity to cross-examine him. Now, we
 find that during the assessment proceedings, the assessee specifically
 requested for allowing opportunity to cross-examine Shri Sohan Raj
 Mehta also and requested the Assessing Officer to supply the copy of
 retraction of his statement. 8....... It is only in the remand report he has mentioned that Shri
 Sohan Raj Mehta has retracted his retraction also. Considering the
 totality of above facts, we entirely agree with the learned CIT(A) that the
 statement of Shri Sohan Raj Mehta cannot be used against the
 assessee and, similarly, the chits found from the third party, with
 which the assessee has no dealing, cannot be used against the
 assessee in the absence of any corroborative evidence. That merely
 because some excess stock was found in the survey for which separate
 addition has already been made, it cannot be further presumed that
 the assessee made sales outside the books, specially when the survey
 was followed by the search and neither during the course of survey nor
 during the course of search, any evidence of sale outside the books was
 found. In view of the totality of above facts, we do not find any
 justification to interfere with the order of learned CIT(A). The same is
 sustained.‖ [emphasis supplied]

 Similar view was taken by the Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi in the case of Yash
 Pal Narendra Kumar, New Delhi Vs. Department of Income Tax, ITA Nos.
 5340, 5341 & 5342/D/2012 (ITAT, New Delhi). xvi. That, the principles enunciated in the aforesaid cases may thus be
 summarized as under: Therefore directions issued
 against them vide interim
 order dated April 17, 2015
 which were subsequently
 confirmed are also liable to
 be revoked.‖

Pine 8th As summarized in paras 19 Paras 8, 9, 10, pages 7 to
Ani May 2& 3 of the Final Order: th 11 of final order: period, the Preferential 9. Upon completion of
 Allottees and the investigation by S.E.B.I, the
 Promoter related
 following are noted as
 entities (i.e. entities to
 whom PAL's Promoters regards 114 entities who
 transferred their were identified as
 shares in physical Preferential Allottees, Exit
 form) were provided Providers and LTP
 exit at a high price by Contributors vide the
 the entities alleged
 interim order: Exit Providers, 10. Considering the fact that
 Preferential Allottees there are no adverse
 and the Promoter findings against the
 related entities aforementioned 114
 artificially increased entities with respect to
 the volume and price their role in the
 of scrip and misused manipulation of the
 securities market scrip of PAL, I am of the
 system for making considered view that the
 illegal gains and to directions issued against
 convert ill-gotten gains them vide interim order
 into genuine one to dated May 08, 2015
 avail LTCG. Page | 57 3. As the aforesaid which were confirmed
 activities of PAL and its vide Orders dated June
 Promoter/Directors, 02, 2016, July 05, 2016,
 August 22, 2016, and
 Promoter related
 June 02, 2017 need not
 entities, Preferential be continued. Allottees, Exist 11. In view of the foregoing,
 Providers, LTP I, in exercise of the
 Contributors were in powers conferred upon
 violation of S.E.B.I Act, me under section 19 of
 1992 (―S.E.B.I Act‖), the Securities and
 Exchange Board of India
 Securities Contracts
 Act, 1922 read with (Regulation) Act, 1956 Sections 11 , 11(4) and
 (―SCRA‖) and S.E.B.I 11B of the S.E.B.I Act,
 (Prohibition of hereby revoke the
 Fraudulent and Unfair Confirmatory Orders
 Trade Practices relating dated June 02, 2016,
 to Securities Market) July 05, 2016, August
 22, 2016, and June 02,
 Regulations, 2003
 2017 qua aforesaid 114
 (―PFUTP Regulations‖) entities (paragraph 9
 S.E.B.I passed an Ad above) with immediate
 interim ex-parte order effect. dated May 08, 2015
 (hereinafter referred to
 as ―interim order‖) and
 restrained 178 entities
 including PAL and its
 Promoters and
 Directors from
 accessing the securities
 market and further
 prohibited them from
 buying, selling or
 dealing in securities,
 either directly or
 indirectly, in any
 manner whatsoever, till
 further directions.‖
 (name of Brij Bhushan
 Singal included in the
 list)

v. Copies of the Final Orders passed by the S.E.B.I in connection with the
 aforesaid four scrips are enclosed at pages 302-419 of PB-6. Therefore,
 although the S.E.B.I found that the prices of the aforesaid scrips were
 manipulated for providing fictitious long term capital gains (―LTCG‖) to
 Preferential Allottees and Promoter related entities in certain cases so as to
 Page | 58
 convert their unaccounted income into accounted one, the S.E.B.I after
 conducting a detailed investigation into the entire scheme employed in the
 respective scrips came to a conclusion that the Assessees herein along with
 certain other noticees, despite being preferential allottees in the shares of the
 said companies, neither had any connection/ nexus with the said companies
 or their Promoters/Directors or Promoter related entities nor had any role in
 price manipulation volume manipulation in the scrips of the said companies.
 The S.E.B.I categorically observed that such fraudulent schemes are
 conceived and executed by a set of core entities which are connected and
 which are bound by the common objective of making wrongful gains by
 manipulating the market and undermining its integrity. In this process,
 certain entities are lured into the artifice with the promise of quick returns
 but their roles do not extend to price manipulation or facilitating such
 manipulations by means of fund transfers or any other activity of abetment.
 Clearly, after detailed investigation by the S.E.B.I, the Assessees herein (i.e.
 the Bansal Family members) were not found to be part of any such fraudulent
 scheme in the shares of the said companies and accordingly, the interim
 orders passed against them were subsequently revoked by the S.E.B.I. The
 said final orders passed by the S.E.B.I in favour of the Assessees herein
 buttress/reinforce their contention with respect to the genuineness of the
 impugned transaction carried out by them and hold immense persuasive
 value onto the Assessees' case before this Hon'ble ITAT. The said argument is
 further fortified by the fact that the Revenue Authorities have themselves
 placed strong reliance on the prima facie allegations made in the Interim
 Orders of the S.E.B.I.

vi. In this connection, it is pertinent to note that the S.E.B.I Act of 1992 was
 enacted to provide for the establishment of a Board to protect the interests of
 investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the
 securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
 The said Act, also gives S.E.B.I power to draft regulations in order to regulate
 the market and discharge its functions and duties. One such power of S.E.B.I
 is that it has the power to regulate insider trading. There is separation of
 powers between Government and S.E.B.I and there is nil or very little
 interference by the Parliament in the regulations implemented by the S.E.B.I.
 In the case of S.E.B.I, the Government retains the power to decide the
 organizational structure (to appoint the top management of S.E.B.I) and the

 Page | 59
 regulation is operationalised within S.E.B.I's power. With the help of
 Regulations, Circulars and Guidelines, S.E.B.I has wide powers and freedom
 to decide how the regulation is to be operationalised effectively. vii. In order to enforce the regulations with proper powers, there must be broad
 enabling legislation(s). The legislation gives the regulator powers to issue
 regulations and directions for the sector, and to supervise based on the
 regulations. Further, the regulator must be empowered to conduct
 investigation into misdemeanors, adjudicate and have the authority to impose
 fines and other penalties if wrong-doing is established. Finally, the credibility
 of the regulatory process of the regulator is enforced when there are in place
 provisions for appeals, speedy processes by Courts that have specialized
 domain knowledge which can review regulatory actions, as in the case of
 S.E.B.I, we have the SAT. viii. Coming to the facts of the case, the final orders passed by the S.E.B.I in the
 favour of the Assessees - are both binding onto the Assessees and shall hold
 precedential value, for the said Orders passed by the Adjudicating Officers' of
 S.E.B.I are quasi judicial orders where the adjudicating authority is required
 to consider the rights and obligations of charged persons and impose penalty,
 if found guilty - See Para 4 of RM Shares Trading v. S.E.B.I , [2014] 49
 taxmann.com 369 (SAT - Mumbai) (pages 502-504 of PB-5) wherein the said
 case has also opined on precedential nature of the said Orders in the manner
 as follows: can be visualized as a scale representing the burden of proof, with the
 totality of evidence presented by each side resting on the respective trays on
 either side of the scale. If the scale tips ever so slightly to one side or the
 other, the weightier side will prevail. If the scale does not tip toward the side
 of the party bearing the burden of proof, that party cannot prevail." ii. The A.O has gone on to state the so-called evidences resting on the tray of
 the Department viz. factum of investments made by Assessees in penny
 stock companies which were not doing any meaningful business, lack of
 prudent investor behavior in investing in companies which did not have
 sound financial conditions, abnormal profits earned on shares, similar
 modus operandi adopted by all investors etc. leading to the conclusion
 that LTCG received from penny stock companies were allegedly bogus. In
 support of the said theory, the A.O has relied on the judgment of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sumati Dayal Vs. CIT (1995) 125 CTR (SC) 124.
 The Ld. CIT(A) has upheld the observations of the A.O and relied on few
 more judgments on similar lines in support of theory of preponderance of
 probabilities, surrounding circumstances and human conduct. iii. In regard to the above, firstly, it is submitted that the Long Term Capital
 Gains (LTCG) earned by the Assessees in the respective scrips were
 declared by the Assessees in their returns of income filed for the respective
 years. The same were anlaysed by the Department and accepted as such
 in assessments completed u/s 143(3) for A.Ys 2010-11 & 2011-12. Copies
 of orders passed u/s 143(3) accepting the LTCG offered by the Assessees
 herein for A.Ys 2010-11 & 2011-12 are enclosed at pages 59-94 of PB-6.
 The alleged theory of surrounding circumstances, preponderance of
 probabilities, human conduct, alleged lack of prudent investor behavior in
 investing in shares of penny stock companies, alleged abnormal profits on
 such shares etc. were, if at all, equally applicable at the time assessments
 were originally completed by the A.O u/s 143(3) of the Act. In the orginal
 assessments u/s 143(3) , the A.O after application of mind and detailed
 scrutiny of accounts under identical circumstances had accepted the

 Page | 69
 LTCG offered by the Assessees as genuine. However, later on while framing
 assessments u/s 153A , under identical circumstances vis-à-vis the past,
 the A.O opined that investment in penny stock was against prudent
 investor behavior and profits earned thereon were abnormal and hence
 against human probabilities/ conduct. Thus, the impugned additions u/s
 68 were made by the A.O u/s 143(3) r.w.s 153A merely on the basis of
 change of opinion in guise of search assessment. Needless to repeat, no
 incriminating material proving that the LTCG offered by the Assessees
 herein were bogus was found in course of search in the case of the
 Assessees. iv. At this juncture, it would also be very relevant to quote from the order of
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Kelvinator of India Ltd. (Del)
 (FB) reported in [2002] 256 ITR 1 which although rendered in context of section 147 is also applicable to the facts of the present case in context of
 the principles enunciated by the Hon'ble Court: vi. In view of the above, it is submitted that when the search action in the
 case of the assessee u/s 132(1) , being the longest arm of the Revenue, has
 not yielded anything whatsoever which would indicate existence of
 concealed income for one or more of the six assessment years in question,
 there will be no scope even for raising any stale issues. It is accordingly
 submitted that the policy of law recalled by the Supreme Court in the
 above decision must all the more be upheld vis-à-vis such of the six
 assessment years in question in respect of which the search actions in the
 case of the Assessees have not yielded anything. Thus, reopening of
 completed assessments u/s 153A on the basis of mere circumstance that
 the Assessees were subjected to search and ignoring the fact that the
 search operation had not yielded anything for the said years would lead to
 serious injustice, absurdity and anomaly. This is exactly what has
 happened in the present case. The search actions in the case of the
 Assessees herein have been used by the AO as a device to conduct fishing
 and roving enquiries and review completed assessments of the past years
 relying on the theory of preponderance of probabilities and in making
 additions merely on the basis of change of opinion even though nothing
 incriminating was found in course of search in respect of those years. vii. In so far as the question of placing reliance on preponderance of
 probabilities is concerned, the same would come into play only when the
 basic test of direct and factual evidence fails. In the instant case, there is
 no ground whatsoever to doubt the direct and factual evidences furnished
 by the Assessees herein and accordingly, the question of relying upon
 circumstantial evidence and theory of preponderance of probability does
 not arise moreso when assessments were originally completed by the A.O
 u/s 143(3) accepting the LTCG offered by the Assessees. The so-called
 evidences relied upon by the Revenue Authorities viz. statement of third
 parties, lack of prudent investor behavior in investing in penny stock
 companies, abnormal profits earned on shares etc. are not admissible as
 evidence in making assessments u/s 153A of the Act as held in host of
 decisions cited earlier. On similar facts as in the case of the Assessees
 herein, the Hon'ble Kolkata ITAT in the case of Manish Kumar Baid & Anr
 Page | 71
 Vs. ACIT, ITA No. 1236, 1237 dated 18.08.2017 reported in 2017
TaxPub(DT) 4463 (Kol-Tri) (pages 540-554 of PB-5) held that the A.O was
not justified in rejecting the claim of the assessee on the basis of theory of
surrounding circumstances, human conduct, and preponderance of
probability without bringing on record any legal evidence against the
assessee to controvert the documentary evidences filed by the assessee. In
the said case, the concerned assessee purchased 2.4 lacs shares of face
value of Re. 1 each of Careful Projects Advisory Ltd. (CPAL) through off
market transaction for a consideration of Rs. 2.4 lacs. The said CPAL was
amalgamated with Kailash Auto Finance Ltd. (KAFL) pursuant to order of
the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court and in pursuance to such
amalgamation, the assessee therein was allotted 2.4 lacs shares of KAFL of
face value of Re. 1 each. The assessee therein sold 2.4 lacs shares through
M/s. Ashika Stock Broking, a registered share broker of BSE during P.Y.
2013-14. The LTCG arising on the said transaction was claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. The A.O in the said case observed that the assessee
therein had made gain of almost 3805% in a span of 24 months. The A.O
therein opined that the price movement of the scrip of KAFL in a span of
24 months and the profit earned by the assessee therein were beyond
human probabilities. Just as in case of the Assessees herein, the A.O in
the aforesaid case relied on the statements of several
brokers/operators/promoters and the orders of SEBI in support of his
adverse conclusion that prices of KAFL were rigged to create non-genuine
LTCG in the transactions of KAFL for several beneficiaries. Relying on the
said logic, the A.O therein treated the sale proceeds of shares of KAFL as
income from undisclosed sources of the assessee therein u/s 68 of the Act.
On first appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) therein dismissed the grounds raised by the
assessee and confirmed the additions made by the A.O u/s 68 of the Act.
Being aggrieved with the orders of the lower authorities, the assessee
therein filed further appeal before the Hon'ble Kolkata Tribunal. The
Hon'ble ITAT, Kolkata, after taking into consideration the rival
submissions and materials on record, held as under: x. It is vehemently submitted that no direct evidence has been brought on
 record by the A.O to prove that the Assessees herein had introduced their
 Page | 74
 own unaccounted monies by way of bogus LTCG. The direct evidences as
 alleged by the A.O. in the form of third party statements, third party
 evidences, Interim Orders passed by the S.E.B.I, alleged cash trail in bank
 accounts of alleged exit providers, investment in penny stocks etc. are not
 evidences against the Assessees for the reasons discussed earlier. It is
 reiterated that the S.E.B.I, after conducting a detailed investigation into
 the schemes adopted in respective scrips came to the definite conclusion
 that the Assessees herein were not involved in the alleged LTCG scam. In
 view of the aforesaid judgment of Special Bench of Hon'ble Mumbai
 Tribunal in the case cited supra, it is submitted that Revenue Authorities
 in the instant case were not justified in drawing adverse inference against
 the Assessees herein on the basis of so-called circumstantial evidences
 without any material evidence on record. xi. The Assessees herein have furnished all documentary evidences in support
 of the LTCG earned on the impugned transactions in shares. The
 purchases of shares had been accepted by the A.O in years of their
 acquisition. The sales and LTCG earned on the said shares were also
 accepted by the A.O and assessments u/s 143(3) were completed
 accepting the claims of the Assessees until search operations were carried
 out u/s 132(1) at the premises of the Assessees herein. Even in course of
 search operations at the premises of the Assessees, nothing incriminating
 in respect of such transactions was found. The transactions were through
 account payee cheques and reflected in the books of accounts. The
 acquisition/ purchase of shares and the sale shares were also reflected in
 Demat account statements. The sale of shares suffered STT, brokerage etc.
 No concrete evidence to disprove the genuineness of the evidences
 furnished by the Assessees herein have been brought on record by the A.O
 apart from placing reliance on uncorroborated third party evidences, third
 party statements which were not subjected to cross-examination, cash
 trail in bank accounts of exit providers having no nexus with the accounts
 of the Assessees, interim orders of SEBI w.r.t. the Assessees which were
 subsequently reversed/revoked by the SEBI in the final orders, seemingly
 irrational decision to invest in penny stocks not having sound financial
 records etc. Under the given facts, the so-called materials or
 circumstantial evidences do not constitute Evidences which can be used
 for drawing adverse inference against the Assessees in assessments u/s
 153A of the Act. Page | 75
 xii. In the facts and circumstances of the case, it cannot be held that the
 transactions were bogus merely by relying on theory of preponderance of
 probabilities, human conduct and circumstantial evidences. A large part of
 the arguments advanced by the A.O is based on seemingly irrational
 decision of the Assessees to invest in ‗penny stocks' and apparently
 unrealistic high rate of returns and supernormal profits earned by the
 Assessees thereon. In this regard, it is submitted that it is a common
 practice among investors to look for suitable stocks (including penny
 stocks) where possibility of earning higher returns with a comparatively
 lower investment is very high. Such investment behaviour, although
 somewhat risky, is not unusual or unheard of and does not carry the taint
 of illegality or wrong doing in any manner. The provisions of the Act have
 to be implemented, administered and interpreted only with reference to its
 specific provisions and the Income-tax Authority is estopped from stepping
 into the shoes of any assessee so as to question its rationality, prudence or
 acceptability from a common sense point of view [see S.A. Builders Ltd. v.
 CIT [2007] 288 ITR 1 (S.C); CIT Vs. Dhanraj Girji Raja Narasingherji (1973)
 91 ITR 544 (SC); CIT Vs. Walchand and Co. (1967) 65 ITR 381 (SC)]. So
 long as the transaction meets the specific conditions laid down in the Act,
 an attempt to negate it or interpret it by applying the yardsticks of
 rationality, prudence etc., which in any case is highly subjective, would
 not meet the ends of justice and basic tenets of judicial interpretation or
 tax administration. xiii. The Hon'ble Courts and Tribunals have in a plethora of cases ordained
 that the mere fact that sales were made in penny stock would not result in
 any adverse influence to hold the transactions therein as non-genuine and
 justify addition u/s 68 merely relying on theory of preponderance of
 probabilities and suspicion unless proved to be so by concrete evidence on
 record. Reference in this connection is craved to the following case laws: ( vii) Navneet Agarwal Vs. ITO, Ward 35(3), Kolkata, I.T.A. No.
 2281/Kol/2017 (Kol Trib) (Annexure 7 of Case Laws on Penny
 Stock): Held as under: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the
assessee has declared bogus LTCG, it was held as
follows:............. 20. Applying the proposition of law as laid down in the above-
mentioned judgments to the facts of this case we are bound to
consider and rely on the evidence produced by the assessee in
support of its claim and base our decision on such evidence and
not on suspicion or preponderance of probabilities. No material
was brought on record by the AO to controvert the evidence
furnished by the assessee. Under these circumstances, we accept
the evidence filed by the assessee and allow the claim that the
income in question isa bona fideLong Term Capital Gainarising
from the sale of shares and hence exempt from income tax. Page | 81 21. Under the circumstances and in view of the above discussion,
 we uphold the contentions of the assessee and delete the addition
 in question." xiv. Without prejudice to the above, it is pertinent to note that the impugned
 addition has been made by the A.O u/s 68 of the Act. Section 68 of the
 Income-tax Act, 1961 is attracted where any sum is found credited in the
 books of an assessee and the assessee offers no explanation about the
 nature and source thereof or the explanation offered by him is not, in the
 opinion of the AO, satisfactory. Under the provisions of section 68 of the
 Act, the primary onus to explain the nature and source of the amount so
 found credited is on the assessee. However, once the assessee proves the
 identity of credits by either furnishing Permanent Account Numbers or
 copies of bank accounts and shows the genuineness of the transaction by
 showing that money in the banks is by account payee cheques or by draft,
 etc., then the onus to disprove the same would shift to the Revenue (as
 held by the Hon'ble S.C. in CIT Vs. Orissa Corporation (P) Ltd. (1986)159
 ITR 78 (SC)). xv. Kind attention is invited to the following case laws wherein it was held that
 burden cast on the assessee u/s 68 would stand discharged where the
 assessee furnishes relevant documentary evidences to prove that the
 genuineness of the transactions i.e. the transactions in shares were
 carried out through regular banking channels via a registered share broker
 in a recognized stock exchange at prevalent market rates; no liability can
 be fastened on the assessee u/s 68 unless the AO brings on record cogent
 evidence to dislodge the authenticity of the evidences filed by the assessee: genuine or sham and the sale proceeds of shares cannot be taxed
 under s. 68 in the proceedings under s. 153A as no incriminating
 material was found during the course of search which could cast
 doubt on the genuineness of such transactions. ( vii) Dolarrai Hemani Vs. ITO (2016) 48 CCH 286, Kol Trib: In the
 said case, the AO had concluded that the transaction in shares as
 a sham and colourful transaction whereby assessee entered his
 undisclosed income in regular channels taking benefit of false
 LTCG in collusion and with broker who with the help of other
 agents, by circular and artificial and false trading, issued contract
 notes for transactions which never happened. Given the said facts,
 the Hon'ble Kolkata ITAT held that when purchase and sale of
 shares were supported by proper contract notes, deliveries of
 shares were received through demat accounts, shares were
 purchased and sold through recognized broker and sale
 considerations were received by account payee cheques,
 transactions could not be treated as bogus and income so
 disclosed was assessable as LTCG. Held that the addition had
 been made only on the basis of suspicion that the difference in
 purchase and sale price of these shares was unusually high. The
 Revenue had not brought any material on record to support its
 finding that there had been collusion/ connivance between broker
 and assessee for introduction of its unaccounted money.
 Accordingly, the ground raised by the assessee in this regard was
 allowed. (viii) CIT v. Shreevashi Ganguli (ITA No. 196 of 2012) (Cal HC)--In this
 case the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court held that the A.O doubted
 the transaction since the selling broker was subjected to SEBIs
 action. However the transactions were as per norms and suffered
 STT, brokerage, service tax, and cess. There is not iota of evidence
 over the transactions as it were reflected in demat account. The
 appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed. ( ix) CIT v. Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal in (No. 22 of 2009, dt. 29-4-2009)
 (Cal HC): In this case Assessee claimed exemption of income from
 Long Term Capital Gains. However, the AO, based on the
 information received by him from Calcutta Stock Exchange found
 that the transactions were not recorded thereat. He therefore held
 that the transaction were bogus. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court,
 affirmed the decision of the Tribunal wherein it was found that the
 chain of transaction entered into by the assessee have been
 proved accounted for documented and supported by evidence. It

 Page | 85
 was also found that the assessee produced the contract notes,
 details of demat accounts and produced documents showing all
 payments were received by the assessee through banks. On these
 facts, the appeal of the revenue was summarily dismissed by High
 Court. ( x) CIT v. Lakshmangarh Estate & Trading Co. Limited in (ITA No.
 270 of 1999, dt. 7-10-2013)--In this case the Hon'ble Calcutta
 High Court held that on the basis of a suspicion howsoever strong
 it is not possible to record any finding of fact, As a matter of fact
 suspicion can never take the place of proof. It was further held
 that in absence of any evidence of record, it is difficult it not
 impossible, to hold that the transactions of buying or selling of
 shares ware colorable transactions or were resorted to with
 ulterior motive. xvi. It is humbly submitted that where the purchase and sale transactions are
 supported and evidenced by Bills, Contract Notes. Demat statements and
 bank statements etc., the transactions of purchase of shares were
 accepted by the learned assessing officer in earlier years, the same could
 not be treated as bogus simply on the basis of some reports of the
 Investigation Wing and/or the orders of SEBI and /or the statements of
 third parties. In support of the aforesaid, reliance is placed on the
 following judgments:- xviii. It may also be submitted here that there are various judicial precedents to
 the effect that the act of questioning the very basis of a transaction and to
 brand it as illegitimate or sham has to be based on substantial, concrete
 and cogent evidence wherein the proof of wrong-doing is clear and
 irrefutable. Attention in this connection is invited to the judgment of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India V. Azadi Bachao
 Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 0706 which to a very large extent watered down
 the ratio laid down by the Apex Court in erstwhile case of Mc. Dowell and
 Co. Ltd. V. Commercial Tax Officer [1985] 154 ITR 148. In the said case of UOI Vs. Azadi Bachao Andolan , the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as
 under: xix. While pronouncing the aforesaid judgment in the case of UOI Vs. Azadi
 Bachao Andolan (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred to the
 judgments rendered in the following cases: xx. Attention is further invited to the following cases rendered in the light of
 decision pronounced in the case of Azadi Bachao Andolan (supra): ( ii) Industrial Development Corporation of Orissa Ltd. Vs. CIT (2004)
 268 ITR 130 (Ori): Held as under: Page | 88 ( iii) CIT Vs. Mrs Sarita P. Shirke & Anr. (2006) 281 ITR 373 (Bom): Held
 as under: xxi. Thus, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of UOI Vs. Azadi Bachao
 Andolan (supra) held in explicit terms that a valid act cannot be treated as
 non-est simply because it results in loss of Revenue to the State or some
 tax advantage to the assessee. An assessee is entitled to arrange his affairs
 in a manner that it would attract lower taxes provided he can do the same
 within the four corners of law. Such valid acts, although attracting lower
 taxes are not always required to be viewed with suspicion or to be treated
 as a device for avoidance of tax. In the instant case also, the impugned
 transactions were carried out by the Assessees within the four corners of
 law. The A.O, apart from relying on uncorroborated pieces of third party
 evidences, third party statements which were not subjected to cross-
 examination by the Assessees herein, interim orders of SEBI which were
 subsequently reversed by the SEBI in final orders, theory of preponderance
 of probabilities and human conduct, has nothing concrete whatsoever to
 establish a case against the Assessees. He has desperately failed to prove,
 by bringing on record some cogent evidence that the impugned
 transactions were sham or make believe. The Assessees, on the other hand
 have submitted conclusive documentary evidences in support of their
 claim which the A.O has desperately failed to controvert. 19. Finally, in view of the aforesaid discussions, he urged, most respectfully that the
 additions made by the A.O. u/s 68 on account of alleged bogus LTCG and alleged
 unaccounted commission expenses and upheld as such by the Ld. CIT(A) de-hors/
 sans any concrete evidence on record deserve to be deleted. 20. The learned departmental representative heavily relied upon the order of the learned
 assessing officer as well as the learned Commissioner of income tax appeals. He
 reiterated the observations made by the authorities below and strongly supported
 the impugned order. It was further submitted that the statements recorded on oath
 u/s 132(4) of the Act during the course of search was oral evidence. The ld. CIT DR
 referred to page no. 9 of the assessment order and submitted that during the course
 of search, statement of Sh. Manish Arora was recorded who is an employee of Sh.
 Raj Kumar Kedia and in his statement he admitted that seized document so found
 pertained to the records of cash receipt from various beneficiaries to whom bogus
 Long Term Capital Gain was arranged by Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia and in his statement
 Page | 89
 Sh. Manish Arora also accepted that Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia was an accommodation
entry provider, took cash from various persons in order to provide accommodation
entry of bogus LTCG. He referred to question no. 13 asked to Sh. Manish Arora to
provide details of some persons who used to provide cash on behalf of major
beneficiaries who used to collect cash from him. It was pointed out that in his
answer Sh. Manish Arora said that Sh. Pankaj Tiwari an employee of M/s Bhushan
Steel Ltd. provided cash and some other persons who generally collected cash from
Sh. Shivam for Jagdish Purohit and that other transfers of cash were generally
through angadiya. He further stated that vide answer to question no. 3, it was stated
that LT entries, OT entries, unsecured loan entries, ST entries etc. given to various
beneficiaries were arranged from various entry operators for different beneficiaries
after charging fixed percentage of commission and that he helped BSL group
company and their promoters. It was further submitted that the statement of the
assessee was also recorded on oath on 13.06.2014 u/s 132(4) of the Act wherein in
reply to question no. 15, it was stated that on directions of promoters of M/s
Bhushan Steel Ltd. and discussion with Sh. Pankaj Agarwal, one time investment
was made in the shares of some non-descript listed company and once higher
market share price was attained through artificial rigging, the shares of are sold to
book huge Long Term Capital Gain which was also exempt from Income-tax u/s
10(38) of the Act and substantial portion of such money was utilized for purchasing
shares of group companies at higher premium. He further submitted that the
statement of Directors of the penny stock companies during the course of search on
Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia group of cases were recorded, in the said statements also, it
was stated that share prices of the companies were manipulated to convert black
money of the persons into white by availing Long Term Capital Gains and that
certain percentage of commission was received in lieu of that. He also referred to
page no. 33 of the assessment order and stated that the incriminating materials were
found from the premises of Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia related to BSL group and from
premises of Sh. Ankur Agarwal, an employee of BSL group. The material found and
seized from the premises of Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia contained ledgers of one NP
(acronym for ‗Nehru Place', referring to Bhushan Steel Group since earlier, the
corporate office of Bhushan Steel group was at Nehru Place). Therefore, it could not
be said that no incriminating material was found during the course of search. It was
further submitted that during the course of assessment proceedings, summons u/s
131 of the Act was issued to Sh. Ankur Agarwal on 16.12.2016 to appear on
22.12.2016. However, he filed his retraction on 20.12.2016 from his statement
recorded during the course of search and did not appear on the date given u/s 131 of the Act. It was further submitted that during the course of survey, the
 Page | 90
 Investigation Wing detected that the activities of the companies who provided LTCG
 entries were not real and it was found that there were no substantial business
 transactions taken place in the companies who traded in shares and manipulated for
 providing profitable exist to various beneficiaries by availing bogus LTCG. A
 reference was made to page nos. 43 & 44 of the assessment order. It was also
 submitted that many of the entities, provided profitable exist to initial preferential
 allottees in the scripts, which were under the control of some accommodation entry
 providers who admit to have been controlling those companies. A reference was
 made to para 4.5.2 of the assessment order. It was further stated that the notices
 were issued to check the identity and creditworthiness of the purchaser who
 purchased the shares of the assessee at a very high price and provided profitable
 exist, on test check basis on the addresses provided by BSL. However, most of those
 notices either returned back or incomplete reply was received and even the
 investigation carried out by SEBI in few of listed companies on the basis of common
 trading pattern and identical developments like stock splits, preferential allotments,
 insignificant economic activity and exorbitantly high stock price clearly established
 that the assessee manipulated the trading in the scripts and had taken undue
 benefit out of the same by reaping Long Term Capital Gain by manipulative trading
 in shares of those scripts. He further submitted that incriminating material seized
 from Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia and Sh. Ankur Agarwal who were connecting persons,
 clearly established that the material so seized from that person was related to the
 assessee as such it was an incriminating material. 21. The reliance was placed on the following case laws: SC-IT)
 xvii. Greenview Restaurant Vs ACIT (2003) 263 ITR 169 (Gau.)
 xviii. Raj Hans Towers (P.) Ltd. Vs CIT 373 ITR 9 (Del.)
 xix. PCIT Vs Avinash Kumar Setia (2017) 81 taxmann.com 476 (Del.) xx. M/s Punjab Sind Dairy Products Pvt. Ltd. Vs DCIT (2017- TIOL- 83-SC-IT)
 xxi. CIT Sonal Construction (2012-TIOL-851-HC-DEL-IT)
 xxii. CIT Vs Naresh Kumar Aggarwala (2011) 331 ITR 510 (Del.)
 xxiii. Mahabir Prasad Rungta Vs CIT (2014) 43 Taxmann.com 328
 (Jharkhand)
 xxiv. Bhagheeratha Engineering Ltd. Vs ACIT (2015) 379 ITR 244 (Ker.)
 xxv. Ashok Kumar Vs CIT (2016) 386 ITR 342 (Patna)
 xxvi. Baldev Raj Vs CIT (2010) Taxmann.com 335 (P&H)
 xxvii. CIT Vs MAF Academy (P .) Ltd. 361 ITR 258 (Del.)
 xxviii. CIT Vs Navodaya Castle Pvt. Ltd. (2014) 367 ITR 306 (Del.)
 xxix. Konark Structural Engineering (P.) Ltd. Vs DCIT (2018) 90
 Taxmann.com 56 (Bom.)
 xxx. CIT Vs Nipun Builders & Developers (P .) Ltd. 350 ITR 407 (Del.)
 xxxi. CIT Vs Nova Promoters & Finlease (P) Ltd. 342 ITR 169 (Del.)
 xxxii. CIT Vs Ultra Modern Exports (P .) Ltd. 40 Taxmann.com 458 (Del.)
 xxxiii. CIT Vs Frostair (P .) Ltd. 26 Taxmann.com 11 (Del.)
 xxxiv. CIT N R Portfolio Pvt. Ltd. (2013) 29 Taxmann.com 291 (Del.)
 xxxv. PCIT Vs Bikram Singh in ITA No. 55/2017 (Del.) 102. 22. The ld. CIT DR reiterated the observations made by the ld. CIT(A) in para 5.6.1 &
 5.7.1 at page nos. 164 to 166 and stated that the material seized during the course
 of search at the premises of Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia and Sh. Ankur Agarwal constitute
 the documentary evidences as the same was related to the assessee. The Ld. DR has
 listed the so-called evidences relied upon by the Ld. A.O. and the Ld. CIT.(A) against
 the Assessee(s) viz. statements of Sri Manish Arora, R.K. Kedia, Neeraj Singal, Ankur
 Agarwal, statements of directors of alleged penny stock companies, statements of
 alleged entry operators & alleged exit operators, alleged documentary evidences
 found from the premises of Ankur Agarwal, alleged cash trail from bank accounts of
 alleged exit providers, notices issued u/s 133(6) to parties who had allegedly
 purchased shares of the Assesses and investigations carried out by SEBI in various
 listed securities. Page | 92 23. In rejoinder the learned authorized representative submitted as under:- CIT.(A) against agitated u/s 153A merely on the basis of third party statements
 the Assessee(s) and uncorroborated third party evidences - Reliance placed on the
 viz. decisions of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the cases of
 statements of CIT (C)-III Vs. Kabul Chawla (Delhi ) [2015] 234 Taxman 300,
 Sri Manish Principal CIT & Ors, Vs. Meeta Gutgutia Prop . Ferns ‗N' Petals &
 Arora, R.K. Ors (2017) 395 ITR 526, (2017) (Delhi) and host of other decisions
 cited in the detailed written submissions filed earlier.
 Kedia, Neeraj 2. That the Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi Bench in the cases of ACIT Vs.
 Singal, Ankur M/s. Gee Ispat Pvt. Ltd. in ITA Nos. 5424, 5425, 5474 & 5475 and Agarwal, Granite Gate Properties Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT in ITA Nos. 7022 to 7024
 statements of held that in the absence of incriminating material being found in
 directors of course of search, no addition could be made in respect of unabated
 alleged penny assessment years. 3. That statements of third parties recorded u/s 132(4) / 133A of
 stock
 the Act and third party evidences/ documentation do not
 companies, constitute ‗incriminating material' within the meaning of section
 statements of 153A and cannot be used as evidence unless they have live nexus
 alleged entry with ‗incriminating material' found in course of search in the case
 operators & of the Assessee for the purpose of framing assessment u/s 153A of
 alleged exit the Act. In the instant case, no incriminating material whatsoever
 operators, was found in course of search in the case of the Assessee(s) herein - reliance placed on the judgments of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
 alleged
 High Court in CIT Vs. Harjeev Agarwal (2016) 290 CTR 263 (Del)
 documentary and Pr CIT, Delhi 2 Vs. Best Infrastructure (India) Pvt. Ltd. &
 evidences Others in ITA Nos. 11/2017 to 22/2017 and plethora of other
 found from the cases cited in the written submissions.
 premises of 4. That adverse statements of third parties recorded behind the back
 Ankur of the Assessee cannot be used against the Assessee unless the
 Agarwal, Assessee has been allowed an opportunity of cross examination of
 such parties. Failure on the part of the A.O to allow cross-
 alleged cash examination of witnesses whose statements were relied upon for
 trail from making the impugned assessment is a serious flaw which makes
 bank accounts the assessment order a nullity. Since the Assesses herein were not
 of alleged exit allowed any opportunity of cross examination of the said persons,
 providers, Assessments framed u/s 153A primarily relying on such adverse
 notices issued statements deserve to be quashed - Reliance placed on the Hon'ble
 Apex Court's decision in the case of Andaman Timber Industries
 u/s 133(6) to
 Vs. Commissioner of Central Excise (2015) 281 CTR 241 (SC) and
 parties who host of other decisions cited in the written submissions filed on
 Page | 93
 had allegedly behalf of the Assesses. purchased 5. That no addition can be made in the hands of an assessee on the
shares of the basis of entries in the books of third parties in the absence of any
 corroborative evidence - Reliance placed on the judgment of the
Assesses and
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. V.C. investigations Shukla & Ors (1998) AIR 1406 (SC) and several other cases cited in
carried out by the written submissions. SEBI in 6. That presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C is available only in the case
various listed of the person from whose possession and control the documents
securities. are found and it is not available in respect of a third party. Accordingly, in the absence of any corroborative evidence found
 during the search operations at the premises of the Assessee(s), no
 adverse inference can be drawn against the Assessee(s) merely on
 the basis of the seized documents found and seized from the
 premises of third parties - reliance placed on the decision of the
 Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Anil Khandelwal ,
 (2015) 93 CCH 42 (Del HC) and several other decisions cited in the
 written submissions. 7. That there is no independent evidence to link the seized documents
 found in the premises of third parties with any incriminating
 material found in course of search operations at the premises of
 the Assessee(s). Hence, entries in documents seized from third
 party premises would not be sufficient to prove that the Assessee(s)
 indulged in such transactions. 8. That the entries found recorded in ABCD xls sheet of the seized
 pen-drive of Sri Ankur Agarwal corroborate/ substantiate the share
 transactions carried out by the Assessee(s) herein as duly found
 recorded in the regular books of the Assessee(s). The pen-drive
 does not contain anything incriminating against the Assessee(s).
 The entries in Job.xls sheet allegedly containing names of few
 alleged entry/exit operators do not relate to the Assessee(s) herein
 and have nothing to do with the share transactions carried out by
 them. 9. That the alleged cash trails from bank accounts of the alleged exit
 providers have no significance insofar as the present Assesses are
 concerned. The A.O has failed to establish any link/ nexus of the
 alleged cash trail with the Assesses herein. No cash trail evidencing
 conversion of alleged unaccounted money into bogus LTCG for the
 years under appeal has been prepared in the case of the
 Assessee(s) herein. The A.O, in the instant case has failed to
 establish any flow of unaccounted cash/income of the Assessee(s)
 through this channel by bringing on record conclusive evidence. 10. That the S.E.B.I, after conducting detailed investigation into the
 entire scheme employed in the respective scrips, came to a
 conclusion that although prices of the said scrips had been
 manipulated for providing fictitious long term capital gains
 (―LTCG‖) to Preferential Allottees and Promoter related entities in
 certain cases, the Assesses herein, despite being preferential
 allottees in the shares of the said companies, neither had any
 connection/ nexus with the said companies or their
 Promoters/Directors or Promoter related entities nor had any role
 in price manipulation or volume manipulation in the scrips of the
 said companies nor were involved in any such alleged scam. As
 noted by the S.E.B.I, the Assesses, being innocent genuine
 investors, were lured into the artifice with the promise of quick
 returns but their roles did not extend to price manipulation or
 Page | 94
 facilitating such manipulations by means of fund transfers or any
 other activity of abetment. Accordingly, the Ex-parte Interim
 Orders passed against the Assesses were subsequently revoked by
 the SEBI vide final orders in favour of the Assesses. 2 The Ld. DR The referenced judgment being clearly distinguishable on facts is
 has relied inapplicable to the facts of the present case. The main points of
 upon the distinction may be tabulated as under: Shantidevi referenced case was that the ‗Investments' vs. ‗Business
 Bimalchand transaction of sale and Income' was never an issue for
 Jain Vs. purchase of shares of two consideration before the
 PCIT (ITA No. penny stock companies by the Revenue Authorities. The instant 18/2017 assessee therein did not qualify case is that of assessments
 (Bombay
 High Court - as an ‗Investment' but rather it completed u/s 153A pursuant to
 Nagpur was an ‗Adventure in the search & seizure operation u/s
 Bench) nature of trade'. It was held 132(1) wherein nothing
 that the motive of the incriminating was found in
 investment made by the course of search operations in
 assessee was not to derive the case of the Assessee(s)' and
 ‗Income' but to earn ‗Profit' and additions u/s 68 were made in
 thus was required to be taxed respect of alleged bogus LTCG
 as ‗Business income' and relying on third party statements
 accordingly, exemption claimed and third party data.
 u/s 10(38) was not available. It
 was not a case where addition
 was sought to be made u/s 68 of the Act. The shares in question were The shares in question were
 those of Private Ltd. companies those of Public limited - thus not listed or traded in companies duly listed on the
 the Stock Exchange - meaning Stock Exchange - thus shares
 thereby that the prices at which were purchased/ sold at prices
 shares were purchased/ sold prevailing on the Stock
 was not verifiable. Exchange. In the referenced case, The peculiar circumstances
 Page | 95
 payments were made in ‗cash' leading to suspicion as in the
 for acquisition of shares of two referenced case are absent in the
 penny stock companies, having present case. The shares in the
 the same address and same instant case were allotted to the
 authorized signatory. The Assesses via preferential
 purchase of both the shares allotment and payments were
 was done by the assessee made through regular banking
 through the same broker, GSSL channels. The shares were listed
 and the address of the said and traded on recognized stock
 broker was incidentally the exchange, the shares were
 address of the two companies. transferred to the Assessee(s)'
 Given the suspicious Demat Account and sold over
 circumstances, the A.O held BOLT platform (on-line trading
 that the transactions of platform of the stock exchange)
 purchase of two penny stock through registered stock brokers
 shares for lesser amount, the at the prices prevailing on the
 merger of the companies with a stock exchange. Thus, the issue
 new company and sale of the whether the said transactions
 shares for higher amount fell were ‗adventure in the nature of
 within the ambit of ‗adventure trade' or in the nature of
 in the nature of trade' and the ‗investment' never arose for
 assessee had ‗profited' from consideration before the
 such transaction. The A.O thus Revenue Authorities in the
 brought the impugned amount instant case. to tax under the head ‗business
 income'. The broker through whom the Unlike the referenced case, since
 shares were sold by the the shares in the instant case
 assessee did not respond to the were sold over on-line trading
 A.O's letter seeking the name, platform of the stock exchange,
 addresses and bank accounts the question of giving details of
 of the persons who had the ultimate purchaser of shares
 purchased the shares sold by did not arise since in an on-line
 the assessee. Thus, the trading platform, the buyers and
 assessee failed to substantiate sellers of shares are not known
 the transactions in shares to each other. The Assesses
 carried out by it. herein filed conclusive
 documentary evidences in
 support of the genuineness of
 the transactions in shares
 carried out by them which the
 Revenue Authorities failed to
 controvert. 2. 2. Abhimanyu
 Soin Vs. ACIT
 2018-TIOL- In the case of Abhimanyu Soni, the A.O treated the LTCG offered by
 Page | 96
 733-ITAT-CHD the assessee therein as unexplained cash credit u/s 68 in a fact
(ITAT specific scenario which is clearly distinguishable from the facts of
Chandigarh) the present case in the manner as follows: The investments were made on the No such findings exist in
 advice of renowned investment the present case. The
 advising company like Edelweiss Assesses furnished

 Page | 97
 for which the assessee did not pay conclusive documentary
 any consultation fees leading to the evidences proving the
 conclusion that the entire authenticity of impugned
 transaction was synchronized and transactions in shares
 carefully planned only to defeat the carried out by them. Thus,
 purpose of revenue. the judgment rendered in
 the case of Abhimanyu
 Soni under the given set of
 facts is not applicable to
 the case at hand. 3. Chanda The judgment in the referenced case was passed on completely
 n Gupta Vs. disparate set of facts and as such is not applicable to the facts of the
 CIT (2015) present case: that the assessee had 12 in assessments completed u/s
 not done any share 143(3) of the Act. However, pursuant
 business before F.Y. to search action u/s 132(1) on
 2003-04 and after F.Y. 13.06.2014, although no incriminating
 2004-05. The assessee materials were found in course of
 had only filed copy of search in the cases of the Assesses
 sale and purchase bill herein, the A.O sought to reopen
 and showed inability to completed Assessments of A.Y. 2010-
 produce the broker. 11 & 2011-12 on a mere change of
 Under the specific set opinion and reassess/ assess LTCG
 of facts, the Tribunal offered by the Assesses as
 held that the assessee unexplained cash credit u/s 68 for
 had failed to prove the A.Ys 2010-11 to 2015-16 in the guise
 genuineness of the of search assessment u/s 153A . transaction of sale and Therefore, the search operation in the
 purchase of shares. case of the Assesses herein was used
 as a device for conducting fishing and
 Page | 98
 roving enquiries and reassessing
 completed assessments on a mere
 change of opinion relying on the
 theory of preponderance of
 probabilities and human conduct
 ignoring conclusive documentary
 evidences filed by the Assesses in
 support of the transactions in shares
 carried out by them. Thus, the present
 case stands on completely dissimilar
 set of facts vis-à-vis the case of
 Chandan Gupta. Accordingly, the
 judgment rendered in the referenced
 case is not applicable to the facts of
 the instant case. 3. 4. Balbir The referenced case is once again widely incongruent from the facts
 Chand of the present case and thus reliance placed by the Ld. DR on the
 Maini Vs. said case is misplaced. The main distinguishing features may be
 CIT (2011)
 elucidated as under: The broker could not give No such adverse finding exists
 details of purchaser of shares. in the present case. The
 Shares claimed to have been impugned shares were duly
 sold through broker had not transferred in the names of the
 been transferred even at the Assesses. Shares were sold
 time of making enquiry by the over BOLT platform at prices

 Page | 99
 AO and the same continued to prevailing on the stock
 be registered in the name of the exchange and consideration
 assessee. from sales were received
 through regular banking
 channels. Since the shares
 were sold over on-line trading
 platform of the stock exchange,
 the question of giving details of
 purchaser of shares did not
 arise since in an on-line
 trading platform, the ultimate
 buyers and sellers of shares
 are not known to each other. purchase of shares‟ for which payments were made in cash and the
 brokers had issued pre dated contract notes, is liable to be treated as
 bogus transaction, and hence such cash receipts are liable to be
 treated as unexplained cash receipts." [emphasis supplied]

 Clearly the suspicious facts & circumstances viz. off market
 purchases, payments in cash, pre-dated contract notes etc. leading
 to addition in the case of Ratnakar M Pujari are absent in the case of
 the present Assessee(s) and accordingly, the judgment rendered in
 the said case in the given fact specific scenario is not applicable to
 the incongruent facts of the present case. 4 7. Arvind The Ld. DR has quoted from the order of the Hon'ble ITAT in ITAT
 M Kariya No. 7024/Mum/2010 in the manner so follows: Therefore, unlike the extract quoted by the Ld. DR, in the case of
Arvind M Kariya, the Hon'ble Tribunal did not give any conclusive
finding wrt the issue under consideration but restored the same to
the file of the A.O. The issue under consideration in the said case
primarily related to ascertainment of actual date of purchase of
shares in order to determine whether the resultant gain was in the
nature of short term capital gains or long term capital gains. The
Tribunal further directed the A.O to check whether the resultant
gains could be added to the income of the assessee u/s 68 on the
basis of alleged incriminating material found during the search -
thus highlighting the stance of the ITAT that search assessments u/s 153A are required to be based on incriminating materials found
in course of search in the case of the assessee. Thus, unlike the case
of the present Assessee(s) where nothing incriminating was found in
course of search, in the case of Arvind M Kariya certain

 Page | 102
 incriminating materials wrt the purchase and sale of impugned
 shares were found and statement of the assessee was recorded u/s
 132(4) offering the capital gains. At this juncture, it may be pertinent to note that the Hon'ble Courts
 and Tribunals have in a plethora of cases ordained that the mere
 fact that sales were made in penny stock would not result in any
 adverse inference to hold the transactions therein as non-genuine
 merely relying on theory of preponderance of probabilities and
 suspicion unless proved to be so by concrete evidence on record: 4 1. ‗s (S.C.)
 emanating
 from the The Ld. DR has himself highlighted the distinguishing feature of the
 decision of said judgment in the case of Kishore Kumar Vs. CIT which renders
 the Madras the same inapplicable to the facts of the present Assessee(s)' case in
 H.C. in (52 the manner so follows: Therefore, as clearly evident from the above quoted excerpt, the
 primary reason which led to the impugned addition in the case of
 Kishore Kumar was the disclosure/confession made by the assessee
 himself in his sworn statement about his undisclosed income during
 search and seizure. In the instant case, no such disclosure was
 made by the Assessee(s) herein. Therefore , the said judgment is
 inconsequential to the case of the Assessee(s) herein. 2. Bhagira That the Revenue has relied on this judgment, to hold that the
 th Agarwal statements recorded during the search operation cannot be deleted
 Vs. CIT (31 without proving the statements to be incorrect.
 taxmann.co
 m 274, 215 The said judgment stands distinguished in the manner below: Assessee(s), would not be
 Thus, the Court opined that in the permissible as per Law.
 case of an admission, the reliance
 onto the CBDT Circular, 2003 in the
 case of a voluntarily surrender
 would not be applicable. 5 3. CIT v. The said judgment can be clearly distinguished on facts, and thus
 M.S inapplicable to the case of the Assesee(s) herein. The main points of
 Aggarwal, distinction can be tabulated in the manner hereunder. statement recorded under Section against the 153A proceedings
 132(4) of the Act admitted that the of the case herein, where the
 gifts given to him were not genuine. Law wrt Sec.153A stands well
 This admission and confession was settled on the vital

 Page | 105
 made in two statements after a time requirement of incriminating
gap of nearly forty days. material having to be found
 in the premises of the
 Assessee(s), before reference
In light of the same, the Court held can be craved to the
that oral statements should not statements u/s 132(4) for
be/cannot be relied on in isolation, corroborative purposes.
by relying on the view so taken by
the jurisdictional H.C. in Harjeev
Agarwal - that held in the context That it has already been
of Sec.158BB that oral testimonies submitted that statements
recorded under Section 132(4) recorded u/s 132(4) of the
cannot be relied on, on a Act do not by themselves
standalone basis/cannot by itself constitute incriminating
constitute incriminating evidence, material. without reference to other material
discovered during the course of
search and seizure operations. Further the holding of the
 said judgment that the
 Revenue seeks to place
However, at the same time the reliance on - can at best be
Court has also specified the considered as obiter wrt
contrary view taken by the Kerala voluntary admissions, as the
H.C. in CIT v. Hotel Meriya - where said issue stands referred
after referring to Section 3 of the and pending before a Larger
Finance Act and Section 131 of the Bench, meaning that the
Act. Oral evidence, it was observed, decision of the jurisdictional
would be admissible for the H.C. in Harjeev Agarwal, still
purpose of block assessment also. holds good. It is pertinent to note that the
 Hon'ble Jurisdictional Delhi
Thus, in light of the seemingly High Court in Principal CIT,
conflicting opinions, The Court Delhi 2 Vs. Best referred the said matter to the Infrastructure (India) Pvt.
Larger bench to examine the Ltd. & Others in ITA Nos. assessee's income, wrt 153A proceedings, rather than relying on
 taxmann.co
 m 308 (Delhi incriminating material - the same cannot be applicable in light of the
 H.C) fact that a stay stands granted by the Hon'ble S.C. in (C) Appeal No.
 20559/2017, against the said decision of the Delhi H.C.

 Thus, the Law that sole reliance on statements recorded u/s 132(4) for the purposes of making additions in the Assessments u/s 153A in
 the Assessee(s) case(s) cannot be done, shall hold good, since the
 same cannot by themselves constitute incriminating material, in the
 absence of a live nexus to the incriminating documents/BOA's etc.
 found in the premises of the Assessee(s). Further, it is also settled Law that statements which are retracted
 subsequently, do not form the sole basis of computing the
 undisclosed income of the Assessee. Thus, it becomes clear that the Revenue's attempt at placing strong
 reliance on 3rd party statements so recorded u/s 132(4) and 133A ,
 cannot hold good - especially when the Assessee(s) have constantly
 denied any linkage/dealings with R.K. Kedia or Manish Arora or the
 alleged entry/exit operators or the alleged directors of the penny
 stock companies. 5 5. M/s That the Revenue has relied on the said judgment of the Bombay
 Pebble H.C. and the consequent Order dt.5.07.2017 of the S.C, dismissing
 Investment & the SLP against the Order of the Bombay H.C. - on the basis that the
 Finance Ltd. Bombay H.C. has opined that ―statement made u/s 133A could be
 v. ITO (Civil)
 Appeal relied upon for the purposes of assessment, in absence of any
 11784/2017 contrary evidence or explanation as to why such statement made was
 b (SC) not credible‖
 emanating
 from the In Rebuttal, the same is distinguishable from the present case on
 decision of facts, in the manner as below: carrying on the business of running a the case at hand,
 restaurant. A search was conducted in its there has been no
 premises and in the course of which the such voluntary
 books of account of the appellant were admission/ suo
 seized, and the appellant's partner had motu statement
 made his statements suo motu under made by the any of section 132(4) of the Act. the Assessee(s)
 indicating in the
 The case of the appellant-firm was that the
 irregular availment
 said partner was not a literate person and
 of LTCGs. the income-tax authorities used force and
 coercion to compel him to sign the said Further, as already
 statements which the said person did out discussed above,
 of fear and compulsion. reliance so placed
 on third party
 However, the court opined that in such
 statements u/s
 instances of voluntary/ suo motu
 132(4) cannot by
 confessions, when the attention of this
 themselves
 Court has not been drawn to any material
 constitute
 on record to establish that any attempt was
 incriminating
 made on behalf of the appellant to prove
 material, especially
 the allegation of inducement threat or
 when there is no
 coercion (through witnesses), - then such a
 incriminating
 confessional statement cannot be set aside. material that
 Further, here, the Court observed that stands seized from
 there is nothing to indicated/reference in the premises of the
 the orders, that in fact a retraction had Assessee(s).
 even been made. Further, unlike this
 However, in the said judgment , the Court case, retraction by
 has also opined that a statement u/s witness of the
 132(4) cannot be the sole basis for making Department (Ankur
 an assessment, and that the Assessee firm Agarwal) was on
 had in fact not been given an opportunity record - meaning
 of explaining the disclosures made in the that their recorded
 statement of its partner - and thus the statements are now
 Guhati H.C. has infact held against the rendered to nullity
 Revenue, by remanding the matter back to since it is settled
 the A.O. to strictly confirm with the norms Law that retracted
 so laid down for an assessment statements cannot
 u/ Sec.143(3) . subsequently be
 made the sole basis
 Page | 109
 for computation
 u/s 153 A of the
 Act . 6 7. Raj That this judgment is also distinguishable on facts, in the following
 Hans Towers manner: Emphasis is drawn to the fact that the statutory presumption found
 u.s 132(4A) and 292C shall apply to such persons in whose
 possession and control the respective books of account, money,
 bullion, jewellery or other valuable article or thing has been found in
 the course of a search u/s 132 . And it is in this light that the
 following judgments so relied upon by the Revenue shall be tackled: 7 1. CIT v. That the said judgment of the Delhi H.C. can be factually
 Sonal distinguished from the present case, in the manner as follows: such chits/loose sheets are found,
 such chits/loose sheets may be However unlike the same, in
 regarded as "documents" within the the present case, the Law
 meaning of section 158B(b) . The u/s 153A requires the need
 loose sheets seized during the for incriminating material
 search sometimes contain valuable unearthed from the premises
 information and those loose sheets of the Assessee(s) before
 are to be regarded as "documents"." Sec.132(4A) / 292C can be
 made applicable. And on the basis of the same, the
 H.C further opined that the rebuttal And as stated above, since no
 presumption u/s 132(4A) shall such evidence, stood
 apply to the Assessee where the recovered, and the fact that
 assessee ought to have produced the present case does not
 other documents to disprove the pertain to a block
 entries made in the loose sheets - assessment, the said
 but since the assessee had not judgment of Mahabir Prasad
 produced any such evidence in shall be inapplicable.
 rebuttal of the said presumption,
 Further, the fact that this
 the said additions were upheld. Engineering section 158BH , presumption under Section 132(4A) regarding
 Page | 117
 Ltd. v. ACIT ownership of seized assets was not limited to proceedings for search
[2017] 79 and seizure u/s 132 and, was also available for framing regular
taxmann.co assessment‖
m 325
(Kerala H.C) That the facts of the above said case, are distinguishable from the
 present case, in the manner as follows: The Revenue Authorities in the instant case, apart from relying on
 uncorroborated third party documentation and third party
 statements recorded behind the back of the Assessee without
 affording an opportunity of cross examination, have failed to bring
 on record cogent evidence to dislodge the genuineness of the
 evidences produced by the Assessee(s). Further, completed
 assessments have been reopened u/s 153A without any
 incriminating materials being found in course of search as against
 the law laid down by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
 cases of Kabul Chawla & Meeta Gutgutia and host of other cases
 cited in the written submission filed on behalf of the Assessee(s). In
 the aforesaid backdrop, the judgments relied upon by the Ld. DR
 are individually distinguished in the manner as follows: MAF The distinguishing facts leading to the judgment in the said case
 Academy
 rendering the same inapplicable to the present case may be
 (P) Ltd. (361 ITR elucidated as under: of the company at Rs.35/- per
 share by different parties also Another distinguishing
 happened during a short span of feature is that in the
 few days. obtaining such affidavits raised a however illegally reopened
 suspicion on the genuineness of by the A.O in guise of
 the very transaction
 search assessments u/s
 Given the peculiar set of facts,
 the Hon'ble High Court held that 153A on a mere change of
 the Assessee had attempted to opinion by treating the
 camouflage the accommodation LTCG offered by the
 entries and tried to give it a Assessees and accepted
 colour of purchase of share as such by the
 capital and then sale of the same Department in original
 at a loss. Thus the Assessee's
 assessments, as bogus
 capital increased or was
 enhanced by a substantial figure although nothing
 through these dubious incriminating was found
 transactions. in course of search in the
 It was thus held that the case of the Assessee(s) - 10 2. CIT Vs. The said judgment once again relates to the issue of Share
 Navodaya Application money received by a private limited company under
 Castle Pvt. suspicious circumstances. The Hon'ble Delhi HC has remitted the
 Ltd. (2014)
 matter to the Tribunal for fresh adjudication in view of the
 367 ITR 306
 (Delhi H.C) judgment rendered in the case of MAF Academy P Ltd. (supra). The
 inapplicability of the said judgment relating to the issue of Share
 Application Money rendered in a fact specific scenario to the
 present case has already been elucidated above. Further to the above, it may be noted that in the case of Navodaya
 Castle, a specific finding of fact was recorded that the Assessee
 therein had failed to produce directors and principal officers of the
 six shareholder companies and also as per the information and
 details collected from the AO from the concerned bank, there were
 genuine concerns about identity, creditworthiness of shareholders
 as well as genuineness of the transactions. The said facts coupled
 with the suspicious circumstances led to the setting aside of the
 matter for fresh adjudication by the Tribunal. The present case however relates to transactions in shares of listed
 public limited companies undertaken over on-line trading platform
 via registered stock broker whereby the seller and ultimate buyers
 of shares are not known to each other, therefore the question of
 producing the ultimate buyers by the Assessee does not arise.
 Thus, filing of documentary evidences establishing the
 purchase/sale of shares via legal channels over the stock exchange
 at prices prevailing on the stock exchange through registered stock
 broker and settlement of consideration via regular banking
 channels would satisfy the ingredients of section 68 unless the
 same is shown to be false by bringing on record conclusive
 evidences. It has time and again been held in a plethora of cases that where the
 purchase and sale transactions are supported and evidenced by Bills,
 Contract Notes, Demat statements and bank statements etc., the
 same cannot be treated as bogus simply on the basis of some reports
 of the Investigation Wing and/or the orders of SEBI and /or the
 statements of third parties. That the burden cast on the assessee u/s
 68 would stand discharged where the assessee furnishes relevant
 documentary evidences to prove that the genuineness of the
 transactions i.e. the transactions in shares were carried out through
 regular banking channels via registered share broker over a
 recognized stock exchange at prevalent market rates; no liability can
 Page | 125
 be fastened on the assessee u/s 68 unless the AO brings on record
cogent evidence to dislodge the authenticity of the evidences filed by
the assessee. In support of the aforesaid, reliance is craved to the
following judgments:- 11 3. Konark The judgment rendered in the case of Konark Structural
 Structural Engineering Vs. DCIT once again deals with the issue of share
 Engineering application money received under suspicious circumstances by
 (P) Ltd. Vs.
 private limited companies under similar backdrop as in the case of DCIT (2018)
 90 MAF Academy (P) Ltd. (supra) & Navodaya Castle Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
 taxmann.co and for reasons enunciated earlier, the same is not applicable to
 m 56 the facts of the present Assessee(s )'s case which deal with LTCG
 (Bombay arising on sale of shares of listed public limited companies over a
 H.C) recognized stock exchange via regular legal channels. The said case may be clearly distinguished from the present case in
 the manner as follows:  Secondly, it was found that most
 of them had an income of Rs. Further, in the present
 1.25 lakhs and none of them had case, there is no such
 income above Rs. 3 lakhs overwhelming adverse
  It was noted that the evidence on record. notice/summons under Section Exorbitant additions have
 131 of the Act were issued to 23 been made by the AO
 parties. It was pointed out that
 relying on uncorroborated
 the summons in case of 22 cases
 were unserved with the remark third party
 that the addressee was documentation and
 Page | 127
 unavailable statements of
 The assessee therein filed copies unconnected parties who
 of affidavits/declarations of the were not produced before
 share subscribers. It was noted the Assessee(s) for cross- 4. CIT Vs. The said judgment is once again clearly distinguishable from the
 Nipun facts of the present case in the manner as follows: by the company was alleged The Hon'ble H.C. in the said
 to represent mere
 case categorically
 accommodation entries.  In the course of the distinguished the modus
 reassessment proceedings, operandi involved in issue of
 enquiries were sought to be shares by private limited
 made by the AO; summons companies vis-à-vis public
 u/s. 131 were issued on limited companies. W.r.t the
 14.09.2007 to the companies onus u/s 68 in respect of
 from whom the share capital
 share applications monies
 was stated to be received and
 they were returned unserved received by private limited
 with the remarks "no such companies, the Hon'ble HC
 company"; the inspector sent opined as under: which the share application amounts
were subscribed. He noticed regularity,
a pattern, in the methodology of infusing Further, unlike the
cash into the accounts, and within a facts of the case in
short while afterwards, withdrawing Frostair (P) Ltd - there
sums to pay for the shares.....The is no such instance of
PAN/GIR numbers of the share the Assesesee(s)
applicants furnished by the assessee accepting share
were not found to be correct, upon capital at inflated
verification from the concerned Income rates from Cos. that
Tax officers of the ward(s) in question. engage in providing
The assessee was given opportunity to such bogus entries.
produce the share applicants' principal The Assesee(s) herein
officers, but did not do so. The share have been allotted the
applicants' addresses too were shares of the Cos. that
incorrect......If we may say so, in are listed and traded
exhaustive detail, after a painstaking on the stock exchange.
examination of the records after two or These shares were
three layers of scrutiny- all the then credited into the
materials and held that the claim that DMAT account of the
the amounts claimed to be received on Assesese(s) where
account of share applications were not after a period of 12
based on genuine transactions. The CIT months, their sales
(A) upheld that order, after calling for a were affected vide
remand report. In these circumstances, registered brokers on
the conclusion of the Tribunal, that the the NSE/BSE, as per
assessee had discharged its onus, the prescribed rules/
appears to be based on a superficial procedures so
understanding of the law, and an applicable. uninformed one about the overall facts
and circumstances of the case." Since the entire sale of
 shares stood affected
 through a web based
 platform, there can be
 no scope of bogus
 transactions having
 been undertaken by

 Page | 141
 the Assessee(s) herein. 13 8. CIT v. NR That the said judgment can also stand to be distinguished on facts,
 Portfolio Pvt in the manner as follows: Singh, ITA That the said case can also be distinguished on facts, in the manner
 No.55/201 as below: repayments have, in fact, been made" Apparently, the search took place on 13/06/2014 and first notice was issued under section 153A on 8/9/2014. The first notice under section 143 (2) and 142 (1) was
issued on 25/7/2016. Therefore, at the time when the statement of Sri Neeraj single
was recorded on 24/4/2015, It was not known whether the statement of Mr.
Rajkumar Kedia, Manish Aurora, et cetera would be used against him or not.
Therefore, apparently at that particular time assessee did not thought it fit to cross-
examine them. Hence, apparently such opportunity cannot be said to be an
opportunity of cross-examination granted to the assessee with respect to the
addition. The opportunity of cross-examination in present case is also important
because of the reason that Mr. Rajkumar Kedia subsequently retracted his
statement. This issue has been decided by the coordinate bench in assessee's own
case vide order dated 31/10/2018, wherein it has been held that material found
during search cannot be incriminating material as statements recorded by the
revenue of Mr. Rajkumar Kedia, Manish Arora and others were used by revenue
without granting cross opportunity. The issue of the cross-examination was dealt
with by the coordinate bench as under:- Therefore, there is no infirmity in these two statements. Further, another two excel

 Page | 152
 sheets found from Mr. Agarwal by the name of Job.xls and Comm.xls does not show
the name of the assessee. Therefore, there is no linkage available with those
documents with the assessee. Further, the argument of the assessee also find
support that it was found from Mr. Agarwal therefore, it is owned by him and
belongs to him. Therefore, it is for him to explain who owns this Pen drive. Further,
those documents do not show any unaccounted income flowing from the assessee to
anybody. In the second file Comm. xls, the learned assessing officer has noted that
names of the person such as R. K. Kedia HUF and others are mentioned. According
to the AO All, these persons are accommodation entry providers as stated by Shri
Raj Kumar Kedia in his statement. Based on these findings, the learned AO reached
at the conclusion that Bush and steels Ltd family has taken accommodation entry of
long-term capital gain from Raj Kumar Kedia and other entry operators. Firstly, in
that particular file, there is no reference of any name of the family of the assessee.
All these entries are pertaining to a single's day that is 21/05/2014. The assessing
officer has not correlated with any of the transactions on that date or nearby that
date to show that assessee has incurred this expenditure. Further, the data allegedly
seized from the search of Shri Raj Kumar Kedia cannot be used against the assessee,
unless the assessee is given an opportunity of cross-examination of the men with
respect to the documents found relating to the assessee or where the names of the
assessee are mentioned. On this issue also the coordinate bench in assessee's own
case, has held that such material found from third-party who was not allowed to be
cross-examined by the assessee cannot be relied upon:- First Such order relied upon is interim ex parte orders dated 19/12/2014 passed
 in case of M/s First financial services Ltd and M/s Redford global Ltd. The learned
 CIT-A was also heavily harping upon the orders of the SEBI for confirming the
 addition. In interim order in Redford global Ltd, dated 19/12/2014 assessee was
 restricted to access the securities market till further directions. Subsequently, on
 20/09/2017, SEBI passed an order in that company holding that there are no
 adverse findings against the aforementioned 82 entities, which included the family of
 the assessee, and the assessee himself with respect to their role in the
 manipulations in prices of the script of the company. Therefore, it revoked the
 original order passed on 19/12/2014. Similarly, in case of first, financial services
 Ltd; the learned assessing officer took note of interim order passed on 19/12/2014.
 SEBI passed t final order on 02/04/2018. Vide para number 74 and 90 of that
 order[WTM/GM/EFD/ 1 /2018-19], SEBI has given a clean chit to the assessee and
 his family members as under:- CONCLUSION 89. As regards FFSL, the sequence of events is that one of its directors,
Natarajan, Noticee No. 4 entered into an MoU on 27th May, 2010 with BP
Jhunjhunwala, Noticee No.6 (who consciously manipulated the scrip price
later, i.e. during 15 May, 2012 to 8th February 2013), to acquire 58.08
percent of paid-up share capital of FFSL. It has been brought out in the
investigation that FFSL got its trading suspension on BSE (that was operating
for a period between June, 2000 to July, 2011) revoked on 8th July, 2011. It
traded for just two days on July 8, 2011 and November 16, 2011. In the
meanwhile, the company made two tranches of preferential issue - one in
 Page | 157
 December 2011 and the other in April, 2012. Soon after the expiry of the lock-
in period, the preferential allottees started trading and exiting taking
advantage of the huge price rise that was prevailing then and made gains. The
investigation was done at the behest of letters received from Director General
of Income Tax (Inv.), as the background of this order states. 90. In the ultimate analysis, I am driven to the conclusion that such
fraudulent schemes are conceived and executed by a set of core entities which
are connected and which are bound by the common objective of making
wrongful gains by manipulating the market and undermining its integrity. In
this process, certain entities are lured into the artifice with the promise of
quick returns but their roles do not extend to price manipulation or
facilitating such manipulations by means of fund transfers or any other
activity of abetment. The whole scenario covering various entities with
different motives makes it imperative for the regulator to step in and secure
the market place by weeding out those entities which have misused the
securities market and meting out deterrent penalties on such entities. 91. The limitations in an investigation of this magnitude was realized
and the SEBI Board had decided in December 2016 to restrict its scope of
actions to those entities that are connected to the company involved in the
price manipulation, i.e. LTP contributors and the company and its directors if
connection or relationship is established with the market manipulation.
Keeping this background in mind, on a review of the entire proceedings
beginning from the SCN, the replies and submissions of the entities and the
stage at which the entities stand today, I am inclined to continue with the
debarment and restraint orders against certain entities, including the
company and its noticee directors, and certain other entities who are observed
to be liable in the relevant parts of this order, based on their connection with
the company; or market manipulation; or their role as conduits in fund
transfer to the market manipulators. Accordingly, I am inclined to pass orders
against various noticees as shown under the head ‗Directions'.
............ 93. As against the remaining noticees, the interim directions issued vide
interim orders dated December 19, 2014 and August 11, 2015 and confirmed
vide confirmatory orders dated April 20, 2015, June 02, 2016, June 14, 2016
and August 25, 2016 shall stand revoked, with immediate effect.
...... 95. The Hon'ble SAT had directed SEBI to pass final orders in the instant
matter on or before 31st of March, 2018. However, due to intervening holidays
 Page | 158
 from 29th of March to 1st of April, 2018, the same is being passed on the 2nd
 April, 2018, in due deference with the orders of the Hon'ble Tribunal. It is
 relevant to bring on record that the hearing for all entities got concluded on
 22nd of March, 2018 and the last submissions were received on 26th of
 March, 2018. 96. A copy of this order shall be served on the Director General of Income Tax
 (Inv.), Delhi and the Principal Directors of Income Tax (Inv.) Kolkata and
 Chandigarh, for such action, as deemed appropriate at their end.‖ 31. Almost similar orders were passed in all the companies wherever the income tax
 department asked the SEBI to enquire. The assessee has placed all these orders at
 page number 302 - 419 of the paper book. Furthermore, the para number 96 of the
 above order clearly shows that the intimation is also given to The Director General Of
 Income Tax Investigation, New Delhi and The Principal Director Of Income Tax
 Investigation Kolkata and Chandigarh for necessary action. From this, it is apparent
 that reliance on the interim order of securities exchange control Board of India by
 the revenue authorities is misplaced as in each of these companies in which the
 income tax department requested SEBI to investigate has given a clean chit to the
 assessee and his family. Therefore, reliance on SEBI interim order was misplaced
 and even otherwise now do not survive in view of subsequent final orders of SEBI. 32. The learned AO also heavily relied upon the cash trail of the bank accounts of the
 purchaser companies. He stated that cash was deposited in several bank accounts
 and after 3- 7 layers same reaches the bank account of the companies. From such
 cash coming through several bank accounts to the bank account of purchaser
 companies was used for buying the shares held by assessee. Stock exchange trading
 is screen based, it is not possible to know who the buyer, and seller is. Only prices
 offered along with quantity is shown. Anybody who bids for purchase or sale of those
 shares can enter in to trading. It is an electronic trading platform whenever an
 assessee buys or sales the share, in either case identity of the other party, i.e.
 buyer or seller nor the timing at which the shares are purchased or sold by the other
 party are known beforehand unless it is a synchronized trading. No such allegation
 is made by the ld AO nor has SEBI found it so. Assessee has sold all the shares
 through the recognized share broker registered with the SEBI on online trading
 platform of the Bombay stock exchange after the payment of the securities
 transaction tax, payments are settled by the settlement mechanism of the stock
 exchange to the broker, and in turn the broker makes payment to the seller, the
 assessee. Money comes in to the bank account of the broker through settlement
 mechanism of stock exchange. As it is apparent from the order of the securities and
 Page | 159
 Exchange Board of India, No such transactions entered into by the assessee are not
at all the synchronized transactions .There is no involvement alleged of the selling
broker of the assessee involved in such synchronized trades. of on the Bombay stock
exchange. There is no such finding given by the securities and exchange Board of
India or Bombay stock exchange / National Stock exchanges as per its surveillance
scheme and mechanism. Further, there is no evidence gathered by the assessing
officer that the cash deposited in the bank account of the multiple companies is
given by assessee. There is no funding pattern available, wherein the name of the
assessee appears. Furthermore the notices issued by the assessing officer under section 133 (6) were either remained unserved or not responded by those companies,
for which no fault can be found with the assessee. In fact, when the learned
assessing officer has relied up on statements of the real owners or operators of
those companies, then the learned assessing officer should have asked them to
provide the information which AO has sought under section 133 (6) from those
companies. As mentioned in the order of the ld AO, that the companies who have
purchased the shares are having their Permanent Account Numbers. Naturally, to
trade on BSE / NSE platforms, those companies have their client registration with
the stock exchanges also according to the established KYC Norms. According to
trading regulations the securities have been transferred in their demat accounts. For
the purposes of holding of shares in demat accounts, those companies are also
required to have their KYC with the depositories. Further the companies are
required to file their return of income compulsorily, they hold the PAN, AO should
have enquired with the AO of those companies. There is no finding that what
happened to the shares purchased by those companies, no inquiry of their demat
holding is also made. Further, there is no finding that prior to purchases of those
shares whether throe companies have deposited margins also as per Stock exchange
and SEBI Norms. There is nothing placed on record to show that those companies
are debarred from trading in securities or not. All these investigations / finding of ld
AO have many loopholes, which remains unanswered. In the statement of the
director of the penny stock company stated that the preferential allottees are
involved in market manipulation of the prices of the script, however, it is contrary to
the order of the securities and exchange board of India. Such references available in
the statement of Director of Rander Corporation at Q No. 13. Further, the claim of
the ld AO is that the companies whose shares are purchased are not carrying on any
business whereas, in answer to Q No. 32 Shri Kushal Praveen Shah Director of
Anukaran Commercial Enterprise Ltd has given the detailed description of the
business been carried out by that company. He has stated that out of 15 crores the
Rs. 1.5 crore was for acquisition of the shares and further Rs. 13.5 crores were
 Page | 160
 deposited to BMC to carry out some infrastructure project. Further, in the statement
 of Shri Ram Kumar Kedia the reference was made of Mr. Jagdish Purohit (such
 statement was retracted and then once again confirmed). However, in the statement
 of Shri Jagdish Purohit there is no reference of any work carried out with Shri Raj
 Kumar Kedia. The ld AO has merely stated that as Mr. Jagdish Purohit is an
 accommodation entry provider and as Mr. Raj Kumar Kedia has named Mr. Jagdish
 Purohit, without corroborating has linked assessee's case with Jagdish Purohit. The
 ld AO has also stated by the statement of Shri Devesh Upadhaya noted that one Mr.
 Bikash Surekha was involved in trading of many scripts and also held that Mr.
 Sanjoy Dey was operating the terminal and then entering into synchronize trading.
 However, none of these persons was examined to ascertain that how they have
 entered into synchronized trading. Necessarily such synchronized trading has to be
 with the broker of the assessee. No such link was established. Furthermore, merely
 because of the matching of the transaction with stock exchange the ld AO reached at
 the conclusion that there is a synchronized transaction. Surprisingly, no such
 synchronized trading was referred to SEBI. On this issue on synchronized trade no
 orders of SEBI were placed before us under SEBI (prohibition of fraudulent and
 unfair trade practices relating to securities market) Regulations 2003, and against
 the broker for violating provisions of SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub Brokers)
 Regulations 1992. Merely an action under the Income Tax Act, 1961 against those
 brokers it is not proved that actually synchronized trade has taken place. Further,
 the allegation of the ld Assessing Officer of providing exit to the assessee by Dream
 light Exim Pvt. Ltd and Duari Marketing Pvt. Ltd only the stock exchange trading
 sales detail of the assessee are maintained which are undisputed as assessee has
 recorded them in the books of accounts but time and date stamp of the buyers were
 not matched. This is also merely an allegation. Further, those directors, real owners
 of those companies have not been cross-examined by the assessee despite
 requested by assessee. Therefore, in these circumstances, it cannot be proved that
 these are the dummy companies, especially when they are having PAN, KYC with
 stock exchanges, DEMAT Accounts, assessed by income tax Departments etc . For
 receipt of money through various layers, they should have been responsible in their
 own cases to show the genuineness of those funds. Assessee cannot be compelled
 to show the same. In view of this, the allegation of the cash trail of the buyers of
 those shares remains unproved and merely an allegation. 33. Next, claim of the assessing officer that many beneficiaries of the bogus long-term
 capital gains have disclosed the above sum as their undisclosed income. According
 to us, If some other parties have obtained the bogus long-term capital gain in their
 own case, in some of the case even the SEBI, while exonerated the assessee and his
 Page | 161
 family, has implicated some of the parties who obtained the bogus long-term capital
 gain, but it does not lead that assessee is also sailing into the same boat. Even
 otherwise, there are thousands of entities who have earned the long-term capital
 gain in those scripts, which are challenged by the ld AO who are also exonerated by
 the SEBI by various orders, along with the orders passed in case of the assessee and
 his family members or individual orders. Hence, cases are also that in those persons
 case their claim of LTCG is not challenged. Interestingly the ld AR also referred to
 the news item in Moneylife.in dated 10/4/2018 where in internal Memo of SEBI
 dated 29/12/2016 is discussed. It shows that SEBI issued an elaborate interim
 order in respect of 12 entities connected with LTCG booking. These are First
 Financial Service Ltd, Kailash Auto Finance Ltd, Kamalakshi Finance Corp Ltd,
 Kelvin Fincap Ltd, Mishka Finance and Trading Ltd, Moryo Industries Ltd, Pine
 Animation Ltd, Radford Global Ltd, Eco Friendly Food Processing Park Ltd, Esteem
 Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd, Channel Nine Entertainment Ltd and HPC
 Biosciences Ltd. However, in none of these interim orders the assessee was found to
 be involved in any of the wrong doings. Such orders of SEBI are also elaborately
 discussed in this order itself. Therefore, merely because some of the persons have
 disclosed the LTCG earned by them as dubious, does not improve or hamper the
 case of the assessee and his family members. 34. The next issue discussed by the learned assessing officer was with respect to the
 preponderance of the probabilities in para number 4.12 of the assessment order. The
 learned assessing officer noted that in the instant case, there are many statements
 duly supported by the evidences that the individuals of Bhushan steel Ltd group
 has received bogus long-term capital gain entities s from various companies
 managed and controlled by entry operators. Further, the assessee has invested in
 shares of various penny stock companies, which were not doing any meaningful
 business, and even the earning was minimal. No prudent investor will ever invest
 huge sums in a company, which does not have history of declaring dividends and
 sound financial conditions. None of investments, losses has been incurred by them.
 All the transactions of the sale of shares have resulted into huge abnormal profits,
 which is not possible in normal course of investment. However, evidence-indicating
 sham transactions by all the investors were not found by the Department, but r, the
 pattern of investment, the modus operandi adopted is largely same for 100% of
 investors. The rates of return, pattern of movement of funds were glaring,
 nonexistence of genuine business activities of such investors etc. Safely lead to
 conclusion that long-term capital gain received from these penny stock company is
 bogus and taxable. The learned assessing officer relied upon the decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of some of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT , 125 CTR 124. The
 Page | 162
 learned authorized representative vehemently opposed the same and stated that
long-term capital gain were originally disclosed by the assessee in his return of
income for earlier assessment years for assessment year 2010 - 11 and 2011 - 12,
which were assessed under section 143 (3) of the income tax act. Therefore, it is not
the case of the revenue that there are no positive evidences produced by the
assessee. Even in those cases, the assessee has produced the complete details of the
purchase, share applications, payment by cheque, sale on a stock exchange, receipt
of sale consideration and most importantly the holding period of those shares in the
balance sheet of the assessee's which were accepted by the revenue for all those
years. He therefore submitted that the theory of preponderance of probabilities
invoked by the learned assessing officer is merely a conjecture and surmises. He
further stated that when the originally the assessees are assessed under section 143
(3) of the act, long-term capital gain were accepted after detailed enquiries, now it
cannot be said that the capital gain earned by the assessee is to be taxed u/s 68 of
the act on the principles of preponderance of the probabilities. He further submitted
that it was argued before the bench in appeal from earlier years that no
incriminating evidences were found during the course of search. The order is
awaited. He further stated that the preponderance of probabilities would come into
play only when the basic test of direct and factual evidences fails. He stated that in
the present case the complete evidences have been placed by the assessee before the
revenue authorities, they are not found to be false but only allegation has been made
that transactions are sham. He further stated that the decision relied upon by the
learned AO of honourable Supreme Court is quite distinct on its fact. On careful
analysis of the evidences placed before us, findings rendered by the lower
authorities, we proceed to consider the taxability of the long-term capital gain earned
by the assessee under section 68 of the income tax act whether in situations like
this, one may fall into realm of ―preponderance of probability‖ where there are many
probable factors, some in favour of the assessee and some may go against the
assessee. However, the probable factors have to be weighed on material facts so
collected. Here, in this case, material facts strongly indicate a probability supported
by the evidences produced by the assessee that assessee has earned long-term
capital gain on sale of the shares. The another very strong probability arises is that
assessee has introduced its unaccounted money in the guise of profit on sale of
shares holding it is a long term capital gain and showing it is a tax exempt income.
The probable factors could have gone against the assessee, only if,
 i. there would have been some evidence found from searches conducted by the
 department that Assessee was the person who at the time of purchase of the
 shares has issued the cheques to the companies for purchase of shares and
 Page | 163
 has received cash back and at the time of sale of those shares have paid cash
 to the alleged by or their associates, and then only has received the cheques
 towards sale of those shares. ii. Such evidences found were duly corroborated with the statements of the
 parties
iii. Cross examination of those parties afforded to the assessee
 iv. Opportunity to the assessee to confront and rebut the materials gathered. Firstly, No such evidences were found during the course of search and all those
evidences which are relied upon by the learned revenue authorities have been held
by the coordinate bench in assessee's own case to not to be an incriminating
material which can impact the taxable income of the assessee and his family
members. Even the investigation made by the Securities and Exchange Commission
of India has also held that assessee is not at all involved in the manipulation of the
prices of those scripts. The revenue has also not shown us any security and
exchange Board of India's order which even implicated the share broker, which is
alleged to have arranged these long-term capital gains fraudulently for the assessee.
At least something would have been unearthed from such high-level investigation by
two Central Government authorities. Further whatever evidences were found by the
revenue; they were not confronted to the assessee for rebutting the same.
Statements recorded of several persons by revenue were not allowed to be cross-
examined by the assessee. In this situations, only on the theory of preponderance of
probabilities addition cannot be sustained. The theory of ―preponderance of
probability‟ is applied to weigh the evidences of either side and draw a conclusion in
favour of a party which has more favourable factors in his side. The conclusions
have to be drawn based on certain admitted facts and materials and not based on
presumption of facts that might go against assessee. Once nothing has been proved
against the assessee with aid of any direct material especially when various rounds
of investigation have been carried out, then nothing can be implicated against the
assessee. The reliance placed by the learned AO on the decision of the honourable
Supreme Court is clearly distinguishable. So far as the facts of that case with the
case on hand before u are compared, in that particular situation before the
honourable Supreme Court where the assessee was constantly earning money from
the jackpot, further was not having any losses, it was confessed before the
settlement commission that the expenditure incurred or the losses suffered by the
assessee have been adjusted against the unaccounted income of the assessee,
books of the assessee did not show in that particular case any drawings for purchase
of tickets and incurring travel expenditure to 3 different cities prior to the date of

 Page | 164
 winning of the jackpot races. The assessee has given up the winning from the
 jackpots immediately on same becoming taxable due to the amendment in the
 income tax act. Contradistinction to the above facts in the present case, assessee is
 consistently an investor in the shares. The holding period of the shares is also quite
 long. The assessee is also a shareholder in various companies of the Bhushan steel
 group limited. The assessee has shown purchase consideration paid by the cheque
 and recorded in its books of accounts and accepted by the revenue in earlier years
 under the scrutiny assessment. The prices at which the shares have been sold are
 traded prices on a stock exchange on which assessee does not have any control. The
 regulatory authority i.e. securities and exchange board of India, stock exchange
 authorities has not questioned the conduct of the assessee and broker selling the
 shares , on price variation in the shares of the companies in which assessee has
 made investment. The assessee has also paid securities transaction tax on the sale
 of shares and the sale consideration has been received from the SEBI registered
 broker against which there is no allegation. In view of this, it is apparent that
 assessee has produced overwhelming evidences that were not found to be false. In
 view of this, the reliance by the learned AO on the decision of the honourable
 Supreme Court is misplaced. Therefore In view of this we do not subscribe to the
 opinion of the learned assessing officer that on the preponderance of the
 probabilities the income should have been taxed in the hands of the assessee. 35. The ld AR has submitted the plethora of judicial precedents where in it has been
 held that in such circumstances, addition u/s 68 of the act cannot be made and
 such income is chargeable to tax as a long-term capital gain only. He submitted that
 all these decisions are also rendered on similar facts where the broker was tainted;
 cross-examination was not afforded, changing statements of broker, Allegation of
 accommodation entry provider etc. He further submitted that almost all the
 authorities have held that either the assessment is invalid on account of violation
 of principles of natural justice or on the complete documentation furnished or on the
 basis of changing statements of broker or on inadequate evidences or the facts that
 such evidences are not reliable as in the case of the assessee same are held to be
 not incriminating material on which addition can be made. We also have found that
 the facts of the issue before us are also similar to the facts dealt with by those
 judicial authorities. 36. As the issue involved before us is of chargeability of long term capital gain as
 undisclosed income of the assessee u/s 68 of the act, we have also conducted some
 research and found that now many high courts and coordinate benches have held
 in favour of the assessee. In one of the cases, SLP filed by the revenue against the

 Page | 165
 order of the Honourable Bombay high court has also been dismissedby Honourabel
Supreme Court. Many of the decision of the coordinate benches have also discussed
the facts similar to the issue before us. Such recent cases are listed here under:- 37. The Revenue has also relied up on some decisions we also deal with them. The
 learned departmental representative has vehemently relied upon the decision of
 honourable Bombay High Court in case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. Principal
 Commissioner Of Income Tax reported at 89 taxman.com 196. We have also perused
 the decision of the coordinate bench dated 18/07/2016 in that case , which was
 upheld by the honourable High Court. Issue before the coordinate bench was that
 whether, on sale of shares profit earned by the assessee can be charged to tax as
 capital gain or business income. In that particular case, the payments were made in
 cash for purchase of shares. The addresses of the companies who shares are
 purchased and address of brokers are also the same. Brokers who sold the shares
 did not respond to the inquiries of the learned assessing officer. Therefore, on the
 appreciation of the facts, coordinate bench held that the income has been correctly
 taxed by the AO as business income of the assessee whereas the assessee claimed it
 to be a long-term capital gain. The assessee challenged the case before the
 honourable High Court and it was held that there is no substantial question of law
 arising. Firstly speaking the case before us is not of chargeability of long-term capital
 gain as business income or as a long-term capital gain. Nevertheless, the issue is
 whether the sale of shares resulting into profits in the hands of the assessee, which
 are held for more than 12 months, is chargeable to tax as long-term capital gain or
 as undisclosed income of the assessee. The case of the assessee is supported by the
 purchase bills, payment by cheques and sale by assessee on recognized stock
 Page | 168
 exchange through a registered broker receiving the sale consideration through the
 settlement mechanism of the exchange by cheque. There is no doubt on the brokers
 who purchased shares and on the brokers who sold the shares. In the case before
 the honourable Bombay High Court, addition was on account of absence of any
 information coming from the broker who sold the shares when enquired by the AO.
 In the present case, the AO did not raise any question to the broker who sold the
 shares. It is in fact, the broker who sold the shares logged in to his terminal and sold
 the shares on electronic online platform of the exchange. It is not the case of the
 assessee that the shares have not been sold by the assessee on the stock exchange.
 Here, the learned assessing officer is challenging the whole cycle of the transaction,
 starting from purchase of the shares by the assessee from the market or on
 preferential allotment of shares of some of the companies and subsequently holding
 it and selling it on stock exchange at prevailing prices as sham transaction as an
 attempt to convert the unaccounted money of the assessee in the form of non-
 taxable long-term capital gain. Further, in the case before the honourable Bombay
 High Court the simple issue was that there was an unusual rise in the price of the
 share and no enquiry was conducted by the any regulatory authority. In the case
 before us, the securities and exchange Board of India has conducted a detailed
 enquiry and has held that assessee is not involved in manipulation of prices of any
 scripts. Therefore, it was held by the SEBI that the transaction, as far as purchase
 and sale of the shares on Bombay stock exchange is concerned, was untainted.
 Therefore, the facts of the case before the honourable Bombay High Court and facts
 before us are clearly distinguishable. 38. The 2nd decision relied upon by the learned CIT DR is in case of Shri Abhimanyu
 Soin vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax [2018 - TIOL - 733 - ITAT - CHD].
 In that particular case, there was a specific allegation which was proved that there is
 a circular transactions entered into by the assessee's brokers for the scrip and
 further there was no evidence that how a Calcutta-based broker from Ludhiana-
 based assessee has received in cash for purchase of the shares on three different
 dates. Apparently, the fact of payment of cash to purchase of shares to the broker
 situated at Kolkata became Primordial. Further, the assessee was in United States
 from 2009 - 2012 and the case was pertaining to assessment year 2011 - 12, where
 the assessee has made a payment to one of the representative, whose name could
 not be recollected for sending money to the broker when it was the first deal with
 the broker. Further, the shares were also not transacted through any recognized
 exchange as apparently the shares were traded of a petty private limited company. In
 addition, the assessee could not prove the requisite source of investment during the
 relevant period of investment. The facts of the case before the coordinate bench are
 Page | 169
 clearly distinguishable and do not apply to the facts of the case before us. In view of
 this, reliance on this decision by revenue is also misplaced. 39. The third decision relied upon by the learned departmental representative is of
 Bangalore bench SMC where the shares were purchased off market by the assessee
 despite having the shares of the company listed on the stock exchange. Therefore,
 the facts of this case are also clearly distinguishable from the facts before us. 40. The fourth decision relied upon is in case of Chandan Gupta vs. CIT , 229 taxman
 173 (Punjab and Haryana). In that, particular case the assessee expressed its
 inability to produce the broker and the AO conducted inquiries on his own. The
 quotations were also from a Gujarati diary the prices could not be substantiated by
 the assessee. In the present case, the assessee has produced all the evidences before
 the assessing officer and the learned AO did not press upon the assessee to produce
 anybody instead of that he went by the standard modus operandi as understood by
 him. Even in the present case before us whether the modus operandi is the thinking
 of the learned AO or has he been directed by somebody is not known. The prices at
 which the transactions of sale of shares have taken are market rate and there is no
 allegation as the shares were listed on stock exchange. Therefore, the facts of the
 case cited by the learned departmental representative are clearly distinguishable. 41. The 5th decision relied upon by the learned CIT DR is with respect Balbir Chand
 maini vs. CIT [340 ITR 161]. In that particular case, on examination of the broker the
 books of accounts of the broker could not be produced by him to show that he has
 purchased the shares from the assessee and the sale of shares has also not taken
 place through any stock exchange. There were cash deposits in the bank account of
 the broker prior to issue of cheques in the name of the assessee for purchase of
 shares claimed to be the sale proceeds of the shares is received in advance. The
 broker also could not give the details of the name of the purchase of the shares.
 Further, it was also found by the AO that the shares sold by the assessee were not
 quoted on the stock exchange and there was no trading of those shares on the
 exchange. The AO further noted that it was a closed circuit transaction between
 some persons. The AO further found that the shares claimed to have been sold
 through the broker had not been transferred even at the time of making the enquiry
 by the assessing officer and such sales continued to be registered in the name of the
 assessee. Therefore, there was no transfer of share at all in that particular case. On
 these facts, the addition under section 69 was confirmed. On comparison of facts of
 that, case with the facts of the present case clearly shows that such facts do not
 exist before us. 42. The learned CIT DR also relied upon several other decisions where for several
 reasons, the addition on sale of shares shown as a long-term capital gain is
 Page | 170
 confirmed in the hands of the assessee. However, in most of the decisions cited
 before us, There was an off market purchase by the assessee and the assessee could
 not substantiate with documentary evidences the transaction of purchase and sale of
 the shares. In many of the cases cited there were predated contract note issued by
 the broker and the payment for purchase of the shares is made in cash and that too
 off market. , In some of the cases, there was no payment by cheque for acquisition of
 the shares but there was an adjustment of profits earned by the assessee through
 those brokers, who generated profits in cash in the name of the assessee and
 purchase price of the shares adjusted by the broker against that payment to be
 made to those assessees. In such circumstances, the additions have been confirmed
 by the coordinate benches. Therefore, the facts of those cases are clearly
 distinguishable. 43. The four parties we like to state that despite searches carried out on the assessee
 based on pre search inquiries coupled with the search on Mr. Raj Kumar Kedia and
 recording statements of so many persons the ld AO knowing fully well that failure to
 grant cross examine will make all these enquiries fruitless. Further, there are
 loopholes in the evidence relied upon by the revenue of not referring the issue of
 synchronized trading to the SEBI. Certain times the conviction under the SEBI Act would have been more stringent then the liability under the Tax laws. Further,
 though the AO was having reasonable evidences but has unnecessarily took the
 burden on him of proving that long term capital gain earned by the assessee is bogus
 instead of first asking assessee to prove that the above income is exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act. After granting full opportunity to the assessee to adduce as many
 evidence as assessee could have produce and then should have carried out vast
 powers bestowed upon him under the Income Tax Act, 1961 of examining the details
 furnished by the assessee. The ld AO could have also asked the assessee to produce
 all the persons whose statement AO was relying upon. However, the ld AO has
 unnecessarily taken the onus of proving long-term capital gain as bogus instead of
 first asking assessee to prove that the long-term capital gain is genuine. The ld AO
 should have first put the burden to put prima facie case in respect of cash credit on
 assessee as to how it was introduced in the books of the assessee. However, from the
 first paragraph of the assessment order itself the ld AO alleged that assessee has
 entered into a scam and they by walked into the trap of section 110 of the evidence
 act on him to prove that the long-term capital gain earned by the assessee is bogus.
 The ld AO after that could not substantiate his allegations by granting cross-
 examination to the assessee of various persons. It is fatal to the case, as the
 assessment strategy adopted by the ld AO could not prove his allegation. Page | 171 44. Therefore, in view of overwhelming decisions of the various high courts and
 coordinate benches produced before us and which came to our knowledge. Even on
 the merit, we hold that the long-term capital gain earned by the assessee cannot be
 charged to tax under section 68 of the act. . Therefore, we reverse the finding of the
 lower authorities and direct the AO to grant the benefit of section 10 (38) of the act
 on the long-term capital gain earned by the assessee on sale of shares. Accordingly
 as a natural corollary, we also delete the addition of 6 % unaccounted commission
 expenditure also. Accordingly, ground number 2 and 3 of all the 3 appeals for 3
 assessment years in case of the assessee are allowed. 45. In view of our above finding ground number 1 and 4 of the appeal, which are general
 in nature, does not require any adjudication and therefore they are treated as
 dismissed. 46. Accordingly, all three appeals of the assessee in ITA No. 1415 to 1417/Del/2018 for
 Assessment Year: 2013-14 to 2015-16 are partly allowed. 47. Now we come to the appeals of Ritu Singal in ITA No. 1479/Del/2018 to
 1481/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 to 2015-16. The grounds of appeal raised for all
 these respective years are under:- 48. The following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 1479/Del/2018 for the 2013-14:- 49. The following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 1480/Del/2018 for the 2014-15:- 50. The following grounds of appeal in ITA No. 1481/Del/2018 for the 2015-16:- 51. Both the parties agreed that facts of this case is similar to the case of shri Brij
 Bhushan Singal for all these years, therefore their submission are also similar. 52. As we have already decided the issues in Shri Brij Bhushan Singal in
 aforementioned paragraphs, for similar reasons we also allow ground No. 2, 3 and 4
 in ITA No. 1479/Del/2018, Ground No. 1, 2 and 3 in ITA No. 1480/Del/2018 for AY
 2014-15 and Ground No. 1 to 3 in ITA No. 1481/Del/2018 for AY 2015-16. 53. Ground No. 1 in ITA No. 1479/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 is general in nature and
 therefore it is dismissed. 54. Accordingly, ITA No. 1479/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 is partly allowed and ITA No.
 1480 and 1481/Del/2018 for AY 2014-15 and 2015-16 is allowed. 55. Now we come to the appeals in case of Ms Uma Singal in ITA No. 1483/Del/2018 for
 AY 2013-14 and 1484/Del/2018 for AY 2014-15. 56. The respective grounds of appeal are as under:- 57. The assessee raised the following ground of appeal in ITA No. 1483/Del/2018 for AY
 2013-14:- 58. The assessee raised the following ground of appeal in ITA No. 1484/Del/2018 for AY
 2014-15:- 59. Both the parties agreed that facts of this case is similar to the case of shri Brij
 Bhushan Singal for all these years, therefore their submission are also similar. 60. As we have already decided the issues in Shri Brij Bhushan Singal in
 aforementioned paragraphs, for similar reasons we also allow ground No. 2, 3 and 4
 in ITA No. 1483/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 and Ground No. 1, 2 and 3 in ITA No.
 1484/Del/2018 for AY 2014-15 61. Ground No. 1 in ITA No. 1483/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 is general in nature and
 therefore it is dismissed. 62. Accordingly, ITA No. 1483/Del/2018 for AY 2013-14 is partly allowed and ITA No.
 1480 and 1484/Del/2018 for AY 2014-15 is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 07/12/2018

 Order -Sd/- -Sd/- Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating
member
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the other
member
Date on which the approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/ PS
Date on which the fair order is placed before the dictating
member for pronouncement
Date on which the fair order comes back to the Sr. PS/ PS
Date on which the final order is uploaded on the website of
ITAT
date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk
Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
The date on which the file goes to the Assistant Registrar for
signature on the order
Date of dispatch of the order

 Page | 177