1. Brief facts of the present case as per the charge- sheet are that on 04.02.14, Sh. L. C. Yadav, ACP/VIU/
 Vigilance gave a complaint cum rukka to Duty Officer, PS
 Vigilance Unit, Delhi that today i.e. on 04.02.14, TV
 channel Aaj Tak (Hindi) has aired a programme namely
 "Operation Delhi Police" from 20:00 hours onwards and in
 the said programme, several police officials of Delhi police
 are seen accepting bribe for doing some official duty and it FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 1 of 37 is clear from the telecast that HC Digambar Singh of PS
 Sangam Vihar, Delhi while on official duty is seen accepting
 gratification from an undercover agent of the said TV
 channel in lieu of settling a matter and thereby prima facie
 committed an offence u/s 7 / 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988. It is
 stated that as per the approval of the senior officers, a case is
 to be registered against the said official and accordingly, a
 case u/s 7 / 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988 be registered and
 investigation of case be handed over to Insp. Kapil Dev,
 Vigilance. On the basis of above complaint/directions, the
 present case FIR no. 4/2014 was registered u/s 7 / 13 (1) (d) of PC, 1988 Act against accused. 2. After registration of the case, during the course of
 investigation, unedited DVDs of subject sting operation
 containing raw footage were obtained from Sh. Satya
 Prakash, Asst. Manager, Legal Department, TV Today
 Network Limited. Sh. Akshay Singh and Sh. Umesh Dang,
 who had conducted the sting operation were examined and
 their statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C. were recorded. The gist of
 the statement of Sh. Akshay Singh is that he is a special
 correspondent in Aaj Tak TV Channel, India Today Group
 and to expose corruption in Delhi police, they were told to
 conduct sting operation by inducing and giving bribe to
 police officials at different police stations and to traffic
 police officials which would be telecasted on Aaj Tak
 Channel. On 31.01.2014, he alongwith Umesh Dang
 decided to conduct sting operation of some police official of
 PS Sangam Vihar as so many complaints regarding FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 2 of 37 corruption were being received from there. He met with HC
 Digambar Singh with an imaginary story regarding deal of a
 car and told him that he had a deal regarding purchase of
 Qualis car for an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- with Umesh
 Dang, who had already received an amount of Rs.2,00,000/-
 but despite that neither he was returning the amount nor he
 was giving the car to him and requested the accused to make
 a phone call to Umesh Dang. On the asking of special
 correspondent Akshay Singh, accused called Umesh Dang
 and talked with him on phone and thereafter, the special
 correspondent asked the accused as to how much amount he
 was required to pay, on which accused told him that as a
 matter of principle, he never made any demand in his
 service of 32 years and that only work should have been
 done and one may give as per his own sweet will.
 Thereafter, he gave him Rs.2,000/- which accused HC
 Digambar Singh kept in his pocket after counting and told
 him that in case Umesh did not return his money till
 tomorrow, then to come alongwith a written complaint. The
 aforesaid incident was recorded in the i-phone and the
 recording was later on transferred in the office computer of
 Aaj Tak TV channel and the original recording is stated to
 have been deleted from the i-phone as the same was
 required for the other sting operations. 3. Umesh Dang corroborated the version of Akshay
 Singh. Transcript of the video recording was prepared and
 accused was asked to give his sample voice, but accused did
 not give his consent for recording of his sample voice before FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 3 of 37 the Court. The sample voice of Akshay Singh was taken at
 CFSL for comparison and as per the report, the recordings
 contained in the audio files were found to be in continuity
 and there was no form of tampering or editing. Voice sample
 of Akshay Singh matched with the questioned voice and
 FSL expert opined the same to be probable voice of Akshay
 Singh. As far as video files are concerned, as per report of
 Photo and Scientific Aids Division, CFSL, CBI Ex.Q-1
 (containing one DVD) is having two video files (file no. 2
 and file no. 6) and that no tampering/editing was found in
 file no. 6 and hence it is authenticated. Further, it is
 intimated by Aaj Tak Channel that the original device has
 been deposited in the UP Vidhan Sabha in connection with
 Muzzafarnagar riots. Sh. Akshay Singh, Special
 Correspondent expired during investigation and his death
 certificate was obtained. 4. As per the contents of sting operation, transcript and
 other evidence, it was found that the accused has accepted
 bribe of Rs.2,000/- from Akshay Singh. Thereafter,
 prosecution sanction was obtained and the charge-sheet was
 filed in the court. Cognizance of offence under section
 7 / 13(1)(d) of PC Act was taken on 11.09.2018. 5. Thereafter, accused HC Digambar Singh was
 summoned and after hearing the arguments, charge for the
 offence under Section 7 of PC Act was framed against the
 accused vide order dated 30.04.2019, to which he pleaded
 not guilty and claimed trial. 6. In order to prove its case, prosecution examined 19 FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 4 of 37 witnesses. The brief summary of the evidence of
 prosecution witnesses is as under : 7. PW-1 is HC Mahesh Kumar, who deposed that on
 07.02.2014, ACP L.C. Yadav gave him three DVDs for
 preparing separate DVDs of each incident and to give the
 same to different IOs case wise. He further deposed that as
 per direction, he prepared separate DVDs of each incident
 and gave the same to different IOs. PW-1 deposed that the
 DVD Ex.P1 of the present case was pertaining to accused
 HC Digambar Singh, who was posted at PS Sangam Vihar
 and same was handed over to the IO by him. PW-1 has also
 issued certificate U/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act i.e.
 Ex.PW1/A pertaining to the DVD Ex.P1. 7.1. In his cross-examination, PW-1 admitted that date of
 preparation of any such recording would be reflected in the
 properties of particular device and it should have been
 07.02.2014, as the recordings were transferred by him on
 07.02.2014. At the request of Ld. Defence counsel when the
 DVD Ex.P1 related to present case was played on the
 computer, the date of access and date of modification of
 both the files of DVD Ex.P1 was reflected as 05.02.2014. To
 a specific question as put by Ld. Defence counsel, PW-1
 deposed that he does not remember whether any seizure
 memo regarding handing over of DVD Ex.P1 was prepared
 by him or that the said DVD was kept by the IO in sealed
 cover or not. He further confirmed that no DVDs were
 given to him by Insp. M. S. Shekhawat for preparing copies. 8. PW-2 is ASI Daleep Singh, who registered the FIR
 Ex.PW2/A on the basis of tehrir given by ACP L.C. Yadav
 and also made an endorsement on tehrir i.e. Ex.PW2/B. He
 deposed that he had also issued certificate u/s 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act in support of the printout of FIR i.e.
 Ex.PW2/C.

 8.1. In his cross-examination, PW-2 deposed that he does
 not know how to operate the computer system. He further
 confirmed that the certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence
 Act was given in relation to the computer installed in the PS
 Vigilance for CCTNS. 9. PW-3 is Sh. Deepak Sharma, Editor, Aaj Tak
 Channel, who deposed that in the month of January-
 February 2014, his subordinate late Sh. Akshay Singh,
 Reporter in Aaj Tak had done a sting operation related to
 rampant corruption in police department and the sting
 operation was converted into DVDs after seeing the footage
 of the sting operation and later on the entire material was
 handed over to Dr. Puneet Jain, Legal Head of Aaj Tak
 News Channel, who used to issue certificate U/s 65B of
 Indian Evidence Act in respect of electronic records. 9.1. In his cross-examination, PW-3 deposed that the
 computer network of the company i.e. LAN was maintained
 by the IT Department and Dr. Puneet Jain used to see the
 legal aspects of the investigative stories. He deposed that the
 reporters used to download the raw footages of the sting
 operations and prepared DVDs and that every reporter used
 to have his own desk on which he used to work including FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 6 of 37 preparation of DVDs and the footages were downloaded on the desktop of the reporter. He further confirmed that in the
 present case also, Sh. Akshay Singh downloaded the footage
 on his desktop and that one spyware i.e. I-phone was issued
 to Sh. Akshay Singh and intern Sh. Sapan Gupta, however,
 he does not know with whom the said I-phone was as he left
 Aaj Tak channel in the year 2015. 10. PW-4 is HC Ravinder Pal, who deposed that on
 18.06.2014, he received two sealed parcels from PS
 Vigilance and deposited the same in CFSL, CBI, Lodhi
 Road, New Delhi and collected the receipt from CFSL and
 gave the same to MHC(M) and RC no. 10/21/14 was also
 received by him with regard to deposit of the aforesaid
 parcels. 11. PW-5 is Ms. Anuradha Dey, Lab Assistant (Physics),
 CFSL, Delhi, who deposed that on 29.05.2014, a request
 was received from DCP, Vigilance Branch for recording of
 sample voice of Sh. Akshay Singh. PW-5 further deposed
 that on 09.06.2014, she alongwith Sh. Jayesh Bhardwaj
 recorded the sample voice of Sh. Akshay Singh in the
 presence of one witness namely Ct. Sikander in a fresh
 micro SD card Ex.P1 through digital voice recorder of make
 SONY and after recording the sample voice, the micro SD
 card was handed over to the IO who seized the same
 through seizure memo Ex.PW5/A.

 11.1. In her cross-examination, PW-5 deposed that their
 department does not follow any standard operating
 procedure and does not have any manual containing FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 7 of 37 instructions for recording of sample voice. She further
 deposed that they had used SONY make recorder for
 recording of the sample voice and the purpose of recording
 of the sample voice was speaker identification not speaker
 verification. 12. PW-6 is Sh. Jayesh Bhardwaj, Lab Assistant
 (Physics), CFSL, Delhi, who deposed that on 29.05.2014, a
 request was received from DCP, Vigilance Branch for
 recording of sample voice of Sh. Akshay Singh and on
 09.06.2014, he alongwith Ms. Anuradha Dey recorded the
 sample voice of Sh. Akshay Singh in the presence of one
 witness namely Ct. Sikander in a fresh micro SD card Ex.P1
 through digital voice recorder of make SONY and after
 recording the sample voice, the micro SD card was handed
 over to the IO, who seized the same through seizure memo
 Ex.PW5/A.

 12.1. In his cross-examination, PW-6 confirmed that
 there is no SOP (standard operating procedure) or working
 manual which is required to be followed for the purpose of
 taking voice sample as had been done in this case. He
 further deposed that he has not told the IO to mention the
 fact that Sony Recorder was used for recording of sample
 voice in any of the seizure memos. He further confirmed
 that purpose of recording of the sample voice was speaker
 identification. PW-6 admitted that the voice files similar to
 the sample files can be altered or modified on any computer
 using various softwares. He further admitted that the hash
 value is computed to maintain the authenticity and integrity FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 8 of 37 of the evidence when it is seized or received for the
 examination as per the NICFS Manual, Chapter-24 which is
 Mark-PW6/D4. 13. PW-7 is SI Amit Kumar, who proved the detailed
 bio-data Ex.PW7/A of HC Digambar Singh which was
 retrieved from office computer installed at IT Centre, Delhi
 by using his user ID. He also proved the certificate U/s 65B
 of Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW7/B in support of the
 aforesaid bio-data. 14. PW-8 is Sh. R. K. Srivastava, Principal Scientific
 Officer, CFSL, who deposed that on 01.07.2015, he
 received one DVD marked as Exhibit-Q1 in sealed
 condition from physics division for computation of hash
 value and he reported that DVD Exhibit Q1 was found fully
 functional and undamaged and mentioned its MD5 hash
 value in his report i.e. Ex.PW8/A. He further deposed that
 on 05.12.2018, he received two sealed parcels from
 Vigilance Branch for providing forensic copies/mirror
 image of these two exhibits alongwith hash value and he
 prepared the copy of DVD marked as Exhibit-Q-1 which
 was marked as "copy of Exhibit Q-1". PW-8 computed the
 MD5 hash value of the DVD marked as "Copy of Exhibit
 Q-1" but same did not match with the hash value of DVD
 marked as Exhibit Q-1. He further deposed that the data of
 both the aforesaid DVDs was validated on the basis of
 forensic parameters. PW-8 deposed that the hash value of
 two individual files i.e. "2.mov" and "6.mov" were
 computed and matched and the forensic clone of micro SD FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 9 of 37 card marked as Exhibit S-1 was prepared/validated and was
 marked as "I Exhibit S-1" whose hash value was computed
 and matched with that of Exhibit S-1 which were mentioned
 in his report dated 28.12.2018 i.e. Ex.PW8/B.

 14.1. In his cross-examination, PW-8 produced Standard
 Operating Procedure running into two pages i.e.
 Ex.PW8/DA. To a specific question as put by Ld. Defence
 counsel, PW-8 deposed that mirror image of a media is the
 forensic replica of the media. To a specific question as put
 by Ld. Defence counsel, PW-8 replied that he gave opinion
 on the functionality of the DVD Exhibit Q-1 and not on the
 specific files and he had only computed the hash value of
 the DVD. He further deposed that since no previous hash
 value of the media was provided, the hash value computed
 by him could not be compared/verified and the hash value
 was provided by him as it was desired in the forwarding
 letter which can be used for authentication purpose for
 further reference. When the attention of the witness was
 drawn on page no. 2 of his worksheet which is part of Ex.
 PW-8/DD that the date of last access is 05th Feb 2014, the
 witness replied that it means that file was accessed on that
 date. 15. PW-9 is Sh. P. K. Gottam, Principal Scientific
 Officer, CFSL, who deposed that on 27.03.2015, he
 received the exhibits from Physics Division for examination
 of DVD Ex.P1 contained in one sealed parcel marked as Q- 1. He further deposed that the video contents of the DVD FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 10 of 37 were copied in a folder on MAC computer and DVD was
 containing two video files i.e. file no. 2. and 6. PW-9
 deposed that as per his report dated 26.05.2015 Ex.PW9/A,
 he concluded that there is tampering in file no. 2 and there
 was no tampering in file no.6 and same was authenticated. 15.1. In his cross-examination, PW-9 deposed that one
 CD Exhibit Q-1 was copied onto MAC computer and video
 files were named as mov.2 and mov.6. He further deposed
 that in the file mov.2, around three seconds computer mouse
 point was seen in the video and in the file mov.6, there were
 no editing sign seen, therefore video file mov.2 represents
 towards editing off line. To a specific question as put by Ld.
 Defence counsel, PW-9 deposed that in the worksheet part
 of Ex.PW9/DB, it is mentioned in para no. 8(2) that
 regarding file no. 2, 'in the start is OK' implies original
 video file start from this point as normally by the video
 camera and 'at last is the sharp cut' which implies video
 may be continued from this point and some portion has been
 erased. To a specific question as put by Ld. Defence
 counsel, he deposed that in the worksheet part of
 Ex.PW9/DB, it is mentioned in para no. 8(2) that regarding
 file no. 6, 'in start sharp cut' implies video may be
 continued from this point and some portion in the beginning
 has been erased and 'At end OK cut' it implies original
 video file ended from this point as normally by the video
 camera. He further confirmed that he has given opinion
 regarding the tampering/editing of 2.mov file only on the
 basis of cursor and VLC bar which is reflected inside the FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 11 of 37 video and the cursor reflected in the mid video means that it
 is re-recorded one. 16. PW-10 is Sh. Deepak Kumar Tanwar, Principal
 Scientific Officer (Physics), CFSL, who deposed that his
 office received a letter dated 18.06.2014 alongwith two
 sealed parcels marked no.1 and S-1, specimen seal
 impression of 'DK', copy of FIR, copy of seizure memo
 dated 08.05.2014, copy of transcription of conversation and
 carbon copy of road certificate no.10/21/14 dated
 18.06.2014 for forensic voice examination and other related
 examination from DCP, Vigilance. He further deposed that
 parcel marked No. 1 was containing a DVD of make
 moserbaer PRO which was marked as Exhibit-Q1 and the
 same was played and found containing two video files
 namely "2" and "6" containing audio-video recordings of
 total duration of 7 minutes 18 seconds and 2 minutes 12
 seconds which were marked by him as Q-1(1) and Q-1(2)
 respectively. PW-10 deposed that in recorded conversation
 marked Q-1(1), the voice of a person started with sentence
 "....Kal de dega, ye maine aapse kaha tha na sir..... " and in
 recorded conversation marked Q-1(2), the voice of a person
 started with sentence "....Hello, Umesh, Bhai Sahab mera
 phone to utha liya karo yaar......". He further deposed that
 the DVD mark Exhibit-Q-1 contained two conversations in
 audio-video recordings marked as Exhibit-Q1(1) and Q-
 1(2). PW-10 deposed that on the basis of critical auditory
 examination, waveform and spectrographic examination of
 audio-video recording marked Exhibit-Q-1(1) and Q-1(2) FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 12 of 37 contained in DVD marked Exhibit-Q-1 revealed that the
 audio recordings are in continuity and no form of
 tampering/editing could be detected, however for definite
 opinion, original source of recording may be required. He
 further deposed that the auditory examination of questioned
 voices marked Exhibit-Q-1(1)(A) and Q-1(2)(A) and
 specimen voice of Sh. Akshay Singh marked Exhibit-S-1(A)
 revealed that they are similar in respect of their linguistic
 and phonetic features. PW-10 deposed that on the basis of
 both examination, he concluded that the voice marked
 Exhibit-Q-1(1)(A) and Q-1(2)(A) are the probable voice of
 the person namely Sh. Akshay Singh, whose specimen voice
 was marked as Exhibit-S-1(A), vide his detailed report
 dated 06.04.2015 i.e. Ex.PW10/A. During examination of
 this witness, Ld. Predecessor of this Court observed that as
 Micro SD Card has been marked as Ex.P1 and inadvertently
 DVD Ex.Q-1 has also been exhibited as Ex.P1, it was noted
 that the DVD is now exhibited as Ex.P-2. 16.1. In his cross-examination, PW-10 deposed that he
 can not admit or deny the suggestion that in case of
 tampering in the video recording, there would be tampering
 in the audio recording also. He further deposed that he had
 examined the audio recording by segregating it and also side
 by side with the video recording. To a specific question, he
 deposed that he did not demand hash value of the audio
 video recording from the investigating agency and did not
 note down the hash value of the recording at the time of
 examination. He volunteered that this is the duty of FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 13 of 37 computer forensic expert of their lab. He admitted that hash
 value is one of the parameter for detecting tampering/
 editing. He volunteered that it is so only if the hash value is
 provided by the investigating agency at the time of
 submission of the exhibits in the lab. 17. PW-11 is Retired ACP L.C. Yadav, who deposed that
 on 04.02.2014 at about 08:00 pm, on news channel AAJ
 Tak, one programme namely Operation Delhi Police was
 telecasted in which some police officials of Delhi Police
 were shown accepting bribe and accused HC Digambar
 Singh from PS Sangam Vihar was also shown in the
 programme. He further deposed that after discussion with
 senior official, he prepared rukka Ex.PW11/A and FIR
 No.04/2014 was registered and investigation was assigned
 to Insp. Kapil Dev. PW-11 deposed that as there were seven
 connected FIRs, copy of the relevant recording pertaining to
 every case was got prepared separately by HC Mahesh at PS
 Vigilance and the recording pertaining to accused HC
 Digambar Singh was handed over to Insp. Kapil Dev by HC
 Mahesh, who had prepared the DVD. He further deposed
 that a letter Ex. PW-11/B dated 05.02.2014 was sent at Aaj
 Tak news channel office and the reply of Sh. Punit Jain
 dated 06.02.2014 i.e. Ex. PW-11/C was received alongwith
 three DVDs of unedited recording, one DVD of telecasted
 version and copy of transcription i.e. Ex. PW-11/D.

 17.1. In his cross-examination, PW-11 admitted that he
 was not the IO of any of the FIR no. 01/14 to 07/14 on
 05.02.2014. He further confirmed that he got collected one FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 14 of 37 DVD of telecasted version from the office of PRO PHQ
 Delhi after lodging the complaint in all the seven cases by
 sending his driver to PHQ and that he did not prepare any
 seizure memo of the said DVD. He further confirmed that
 the copies of DVDs received from PHQ were not got
 prepared by him through HC Mahesh on 04.02.2014. He
 deposed that four DVDs i.e. Ex. P2, Ex. P5, Ex. P6 and Ex.
 P7 were brought by Sh. Satya Prakash, Asst. Manager, Aaj
 Tak to his office on 06.02.2014 and that he did not verify
 from Sh. Satya Prakash whether the DVDs brought by him
 were containing original recordings or not. To a specific
 question as put by Ld. Defence counsel, PW-11 deposed that
 he cannot admit or deny the suggestion whether Insp. M. S.
 Shekhawat, Insp. Punia and Insp. Kapil Dev had gone to the
 office of Aaj Tak on 06.02.2014 for collecting four DVDs
 and transcript. 18. PW-12 is Sh. R. S. Chauhan, Retired Additional CP,
 who deposed that he perused the entire file and on
 application of mind, found sufficient incriminating material
 against HC Digambar Singh and accorded sanction U/s 19
 of PC Act against him i.e. Ex.PW12/A, which was
 forwarded through covering letter i.e. Ex.PW12/B.

 18.1. In his cross-examination, PW-12 deposed that copy
 of draft chargesheet was sent to him alongwith the request
 letter, however, he does not remember whether the fact
 about the death of Sh. Akshay Singh was mentioned in the
 draft charge-sheet or not. He further deposed that he had
 perused the audio-video recording and the transcript as well FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 15 of 37 as the report of CFSL regarding matching of voice sample,
 however he does not remember whether the audio-video
 recording was sent in a DVD or in any pen drive. He further
 deposed that certificate under Section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act dated 20.12.2017 issued by Dr. Punit Jain
 from TV Today Network was not received alongwith the
 request letter. He denied the suggestion that he has not
 applied his mind and granted sanction in mechanical
 manner. He confirmed that HC Digambar Singh was
 exonerated in the Departmental Inquiry vide order Ex. PW-
 12/DA bearing his signature at point A. 19. PW-13 is ACP Mahavir Panwar, who deposed that
 on 15.07.2018, investigation of the present case was
 assigned to him and since the investigation in the present
 case was completed, he prepared the final chargesheet and
 filed the same in the court. 20. PW-14 is ACP Kapil Dev, who deposed that on
 06.02.2014, he had accompanied Insp. M. S. Shekhawat (IO
 of case FIR No.01/2014) and Insp. Virender Singh to the
 office of TV Today Network, Noida, UP where Sh. Satya
 Prakash, Assistant Manager, Legal Deptt., TV Today
 Network produced three unedited DVDs and one edited
 DVD alongwith transcript of the telecast. He further
 deposed that Insp. M. S. Shekhawat took the aforesaid four
 DVDs/CDs and transcription into police possession vide
 seizure memo Ex.PW14/A. PW-14 deposed that on the
 direction of ACP L. C. Yadav, one copy of CD Ex.P1 FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 16 of 37 containing particular sting operation of accused Digambar
 was provided to him on 07.02.2014 and he had seen the said
 CD. He further deposed that he sent one notice U/s 91 Cr.P.C . i.e. Ex.PW16/DA to Sh. Punit Jain, Legal Head,
 TVTN for providing original recording, recording devices,
 names and addresses of under cover reporters and source of
 money used in the sting operation etc.

 20.1. In his cross-examination, PW-14 deposed that he did
 not prepare any seizure memo on 07.02.2014 about handing
 over of Ex.P1 to him by Ct. Mahesh and deposed
 voluntarily that it was given to him for the purpose of
 looking into the sting operation and for using it during
 investigation. He admitted that Ex.P1 was the first CD of
 sting operation which was received by him and that he did
 not obtain any certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act
 from Ct. Mahesh. He further admitted that Mata Data of the
 CD Ex.P1 in the properties section is showing date of access
 and date of modification as 05.02.2014 in both the files. He
 further admitted that no certificate U/s 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act was collected by them from Satya Parkash
 and that he does not remember whether any inquiry was
 made from Satya Prakash about the person who had
 prepared those four DVDs. He admitted that he did not play
 those four DVDs so as to verify whether files available in
 Ex.P1 were in fact available in those four DVDs or not. 21. PW-15 is Ct. Sikender Maan, who deposed that on
 09.06.2014, voice samples of Akshay Singh and Sapan FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 17 of 37 Gupta were recorded at CFSL, Lodhi Road, New Delhi in
 his presence and the same was seized by IO vide memo
 Ex.PW5/A. 22. PW-16 is Sh. Puneet Jain, who deposed that in the
 year 2014, he was designated as Head, Legal &
 Compliances, Company Secretary and Vice President,
 Internal Audit of India Today Group. He further deposed
 that the sting operation was conducted by Editorial Team
 which was headed by late Sh. Akshay Singh and
 broadcasted on 04.02.2014 on Aaj Tak Channel related to
 exposing corruption in Delhi Police. PW-16 deposed that he
 responded a notice U/s 91 Cr.P.C . sent to the company on
 05.02.2014 and in total four CDs/DVDs Ex.P2, Ex.P5,
 Ex.P6 and Ex.P7 were handed over to the concerned
 department which comprises of three CDs/DVDs of raw
 footage/unedited footage and one CD/DVD was of the
 broadcasted footage. He further deposed that certificate U/s
 65B of Indian Evidence Act was also provided since the
 requisite footage as a process was transferred from the I-
 phone (without SIM), used by late Sh. Akshay Singh in the
 sting operation. PW-16 deposed that the footage was
 transferred from the I-phone to the company computer as
 per the requisite process and CDs/DVDs were made by the
 library under his direct supervision and were consequently
 handed over to the police through Sh. Satya Parkash,
 Assistant Manager, Legal on 06.02.2014. He further
 deposed that the footage as a process was deleted from the
 I-phone after successful transfer to the office computer as FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 18 of 37 the said I-phone was also used for other coverages and was
 lastly handed over to the Vidhan Sabha, UP in some other
 related sting operation. PW-16 deposed that Sh. Akshay
 Singh had expired after the aforesaid sting operation. He
 further deposed that he had provided separate certificate U/s
 65B of Indian Evidence Act in connection with each FIR
 and the certificate pertaining to present FIR is Ex.PW16/B
 which was sent alongwith letter dated 20.12.2017. PW-16
 deposed that he had informed the Investigating Agency
 about the death of Sh. Akshay Singh and provided copy of
 his death certificate. 22.1. In his cross-examination, PW-16 deposed that he
 had communicated to the IO that the original recording
 device used in the present case was in the custody of UP
 Vidhan Sabha in connection with Mujjafar Nagar riots, vide
 letter Ex.PW17/B. He further deposed that he cannot tell as
 to when the recordings were transferred from I-Phone to the
 computers of SIT or as to when the recordings were deleted
 from the I-Phone or as to when the recordings were
 transferred from SIT to library department. He further
 deposed that he does not recall as to who had prepared
 edited footage from the unedited footage of the sting
 operation and as to where the edited version was prepared
 whether in SIT or library. He admitted that process of
 transfer of recordings from I-Phone to the computers of SIT
 and thereafter from the computers of SIT to the computers
 of library were not done in his presence. He further deposed
 that he cannot say whether the unedited footage of the FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 19 of 37 present sting operation were transferred to the computers of
 library section in one go by the same person or in the same
 manner from the computers of SIT section to the library
 section. He further deposed that he does not remember for
 how many times certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act
 was provided by him to the IO and after seeing the
 certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW16/DE, he
 admitted that the same is executed by him. He further
 deposed that he did not watch the original recordings in I-
 Phone. 23. PW-17 is Sh. Umesh Dung, who deposed that in the
 year 2014, he was working as intern India Today group and
 he had not accompanied Sh. Akshay Singh, who was his
 senior, to any sting operation conducted by him at that time.
 He further deposed that he is not aware anything about the
 present case. 23.1. PW-17 was cross-examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the
 State, but he denied all the suggestions put by Ld. Addl. PP
 for the State. He denied the specific suggestion put by Ld.
 Addl. PP for the State that he has been won over by the
 accused and that is why he is not intentionally disclosing the
 true facts of the case and deliberately deposing falsely. 24. PW-18 is Insp. Vinay Kumar, to whom investigation
 of present case was assigned in August 2015. He deposed
 that he obtained postmortem report of Sh. Akshay Singh and
 certificate U/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW16/B
 from the competent authority of Aaj Tak Channel. He
 further deposed that he made request before the court for FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 20 of 37 taking voice sample of accused HC Digambar Singh who
 refused to give his consent for recording of his voice
 sample. PW-18 deposed that he obtained prosecution
 sanction Ex.PW12/A from the administrative authority of
 accused HC Digambar Singh and place the same on record.
 He also collected duty roster of accused Ex.PW18/B, which
 was seized through memo Ex.PW18/A and also collected
 bio-data of accused Ex.PW18/C.

 24.1. During his cross-examination, PW-18 deposed that
 he did not seek any clarification about handwritten portion
 at point X on memo Ex.PW19/A as to why this portion was
 handwritten whereas entire memo was typed one. He further
 deposed that no site plan was available on file when the file
 was received by him and he also did not prepare any site
 plan. He further deposed that he did not verify as to who
 had typed the transcription Ex.PW19/D and did not obtain
 any opinion from CFSL that the transcription Ex.PW19/D
 was authenticated and was correct as per the audio track of
 the sting operation. He further deposed that he has
 compared the transcript Ex.PW19/D with the audio track of
 the sting operation and found it correct. He further
 confirmed that he did not seek any clarification from Insp.
 Devender Saini for not signing Ex.PW19/D earlier or as to
 about scriber of this transcription. He further deposed that
 he neither obtained the mobile number of Sh. Akshay Singh
 nor he collected CDRs of mobile phone of Sh. Akshay
 Singh for ascertaining his location at or around PS Sangam
 Vihar. He further deposed that Satya Parkash was one of the FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 21 of 37 material witness in this case, but he could not record his
 statement inadvertently. He admitted that vide letter
 Ex.PW18/DA, he had informed Sh. Punit Jain of TVTN that
 he was not competent to issue certificate U/s 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act. To a specific question, he deposed that it does
 not come to his notice that the copy of the sting operation
 given by Ct. Mahesh to the first IO of the present case was
 sealed and deposited in the Malkhana in February 2014
 itself. He further admitted that as per report of Photo
 Division, it was opined that audio-video file no. 2 of the
 said DVD was tampered and that whatsoever money
 transaction was available in the sting operation of the
 present case, it was in audio-video file no. 2. 25. PW-19 is Insp. Devender Saini, who deposed that on
 07.03.2014, investigation of present case was assigned to
 him and on 08.05.2014, he called Akshay to the Vigilance
 office who had conducted the sting operation. He further
 deposed that one DVD which was lying in the case file was
 played in the computer of Vigilance and shown to Akshay
 Singh, who after seeing the contents of the DVD, stated that
 the footage/sting was the same which was shot by him
 regarding HC Digambar Singh of PS Sangam Vihar from his
 mobile phone. PW-19 deposed that he recorded the
 statement of Akshay Singh Ex.PW19/B and on 19.06.2016,
 he took him to CFSL, Lodhi Colony for obtaining his voice
 sample and the CFSL officials had taken the voice sample of
 Akshay in micro SD card which was taken by him in police
 possession vide memo Ex.PW5/A. As per PW-19, later on FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 22 of 37 the sealed DVD, the sealed exhibits and the transcript were
 sent to CFSL, Lodhi Road for opinion and he received the
 result Ex.PW10/A on 14.08.2015. He also admitted that
 transcription Ex.PW-19/D was prepared by him during
 investigation and on 30.05.2018, he was called by the IO to
 put his signature on the transcription. 25.1. During his cross-examination, PW-19 admitted that
 Insp. D. V. Gautam was not present when proceeding dated
 08.05.2014 was conducted by him. He denied the
 suggestion that Akshay Singh was not present in PS
 Vigilance on 08.05.2014 or that no recording in any DVD
 was identified by him. He confirmed that neither he got the
 spot of sting operation identified from Akshay Singh nor
 prepared any site plan and that he cannot give any
 explanation for not preparing the site plan. He deposed that
 the transcript was not prepared for relying upon in the
 investigation file and it was prepared only for help in the
 investigation. He further confirmed that the specific date of
 sting operation was not revealed to him during
 investigation. 26. After completion of the prosecution evidence,
 statement of accused was recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. and all the incriminating evidence was put to him
 which he denied as false and incorrect and stated that he is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case
 by the undercover reporters of TVTN by fabricating sting
 operation for the purpose of increasing their TRP and that
 no complaint of Akshay Singh or any TVTN officials was FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 23 of 37 pending with him. It was further submitted by accused that
 he had not demanded or accepted any money from anybody
 as claimed. He opted to lead defence evidence. 27. In his defence, he examined SI Pawan Kumar as
 DW-1, who brought the original record regarding Vigilance
 Enquiry of HC Digambar Singh and proved the final order
 dated 24.04.2018 alongwith the findings dated 05.04.2018
 as Ex.DW1/A to Ex.DW1/C (colly). 28. Arguments have been advanced by Ms. Purnima
 Gupta, Ld. Chief PP for the State and also by Sh. Sanjay
 Gupta, Ld. Defence Counsel for the accused. I have also
 perused the written arguments as filed on behalf of accused. 29. Ld. Chief PP for State argued that the footage of
 sting operation was played in the presence of Akshay Singh
 on the computer of Vigilance by PW-19 Insp. Devender
 Saini and after seeing the contents of the DVD, Akshay
 Singh told him that the footage/sting was the same which
 was shot by him regarding HC Digambar Singh of PS
 Sangam Vihar on his mobile phone. It has been submitted
 that PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain, who was Head of Legal &
 Compliances, TV Today Network Ltd. has specifically
 deposed that the footage was transferred from the I-phone
 used by Late Sh. Akshay Singh and the CDs/DVDs were
 made by the library under his direct supervision and
 therefore his certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act is
 admissible in support of DVD Ex.P-2 relating to the sting of
 present case being secondary evidence. 30. Ld. Chief PP for State further argued that the
 accused had refused to give his voice sample when an
 application was filed by the IO before the Court and
 therefore adverse inference should be drawn against him. It
 has been submitted that the prosecution has proved its case
 beyond reasonable doubt. 31. Per contra, Ld. Defence counsel argued that the
 original source of alleged sting operation i.e. I-phone was
 neither seized nor produced before the Court and Sh.
 Akshay Singh, who allegedly recorded the sting operation
 regarding the imaginary story for giving bribe to accused
 could not be examined as he expired. It is submitted that
 PW-17 i.e. Sh. Umesh Dang, who as per prosecution story
 accompanied Sh. Askhay Singh for conducting the sting
 operation has not supported the case of prosecution. 32. Ld. Defence counsel further argued that prosecution
 witnesses have deposed two different stories regarding
 procurement of four DVDs i.e. three raw DVDs and one
 edited DVD from which PW-1 HC Mahesh allegedly copied
 the DVD Ex.P-2 related to sting operation of present case. It
 is submitted that as per PW-11 Retd. ACP L. C. Yadav, who
 got the case FIR registered, Sh. Satya Prakash, Asst.
 Manager, Aaj Tak brought four DVDs alongwith letter of
 Sh. Punit Jain at his office on 06.02.2014, but PW-14 ACP
 Kapil Dev to whom the investigation of present case was
 assigned, deposed that on 06.02.2014, he alongwith Insp. M.
 S. Shekhawat and Insp. Virender Singh reached at the office
 of TV Today Network where Sh. Satya Prakash, Asst. Manager produced three unedited DVDs and one edited
 DVD, which were taken in police possession by Insp. M. S.
 Shekhawat. 33. Ld. Defence counsel vehemently contended that as
 per prosecution case, DVD Ex.P-2 was prepared by PW-1
 HC Mahesh on 07.02.2014 from three unedited DVDs, but
 the Mata Data of the DVD Ex.P-2 when checked during
 cross examination, had shown the date of access and date of
 modification of both the files copied in DVD Ex.P-2 is of
 05.02.2014 and there is no explanation on record in this
 regard. 34. Ld. Defence counsel further argued that it is also
 admitted by PW-18 that the alleged transaction of money is
 shown in file no. 2.mov and as per opinion of PW-9 Sh. P.
 K. Gottam, who was working as Principle Scientific Officer
 at CFSL, there was tampering in file no.2.mov as the cursor
 reflected in the mid video, which means that it is re-
 recorded one. 35. Ld. Defence counsel further argued that Sh. Punit
 Jain was not the competent person to issue certificate u/s 65-
 B of Indian Evidence Act relating to three unedited DVDs
 from which allegedly HC Mahesh copied the video footage
 related to present case on DVD i.e. Ex.P-2. It is submitted
 that the IO informed Sh. Punit Jain vide letter Ex. PW-
 18/DA that he was not the competent person to issue a
 certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act and sought
 address of Sh. Deepak Sharma vide letter Ex. PW-18/DB to FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 26 of 37 ask him for providing certificate u/s 65-B of Indian
 Evidence Act, but same was not obtained. 36. It was argued by Ld. Defence counsel that accused
 has been exonerated in the departmental proceedings and
 the documents produced before Disciplinary Authority are
 mirror image of the subject matter of present case. Ld.
 Defence counsel has drawn my attention in respect of
 authorities i.e. Jahan Singh vs. State , 2020 (2) RCR (Cr.) 794 Delhi; Vishal Chand vs. State , 2011 (1) JCC 570 Delhi
 and Johnson Jacob vs. State, WP (Crl.) 1279/2021. 37. Before appreciating evidence in this case, it is
 important to note that even in a case under Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988 , the onus is on the prosecution to
 prove the fundamental requirement of criminal law viz., the
 guilt of an accused must be proved beyond all reasonable
 doubts. In this regard, reliance is placed upon State of
 Maharashtra Vs. Dnyaneshwar Laxman Rao Wankhede 2009 (4) RCR (Cr) 217 SC and State of Punjab Vs.
 Madan Mohan Lal Verma 2013 (7) LRC 34 (SC). In
 both these cases, it was held that the foundational facts must
 be established by the prosecution. 38. It is well settled that it is one of the fundamental
 principles of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is
 presumed to be innocent till he is proved to be guilty. It is
 also well settled that suspicion however strong can never
 take the place of proof. There is a long distance between the
 fact that accused 'may have committed the offence' and FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 27 of 37 'must have committed the offence', which is to be proved by
 the prosecution by adducing reliable and cogent evidence.
 Presumption of innocence is recognized as human right
 which cannot be wished away. 39. Sh. Akshay Singh, Special Correspondent of Aaj Tak
 channel, who had conducted and recorded the sting
 operation related to present case could not be examined as
 he passed away during investigation and Sh. Punit Jain,
 Head Legal & Compliances provided the copy of his death
 certificate to the IO. The original device i.e. I-phone through
 which Sh. Akshay Singh recorded the sting operation was
 not produced before the Court and it has come on record in
 the evidence of PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain that the original
 recording device was in the custody of UP Vidhan Sabha in
 connection with Muzaffarnagar riots. PW-17 Sh. Umesh
 Dang, who accompanied Sh. Akshay Singh at the time of
 present sting operation has not supported the case of
 prosecution. He has denied the suggestion of Ld. Addl. PP
 for State that he has been won over by the accused and that
 is why, he is intentionally not disclosing true facts of the
 case. 40. As noted above, there is no direct ocular evidence or
 primary evidence against the accused that he demanded or
 obtained any bribe from Akshay Singh which was allegedly
 recorded by him through his I-phone. The original device
 i.e. I-phone through which the sting operation was recorded
 has not been produced before the Court, therefore, the entire
 case of the prosecution is based upon the DVD Ex.P-2. (During the evidence of PW-10 Sh. Deepak Kumar Tanwar,
 Principle Scientific Officer, CFSL, it was observed by the
 Ld. Predecessor that Ex.P1 has been given to Micro SD card
 and DVD Ex. Q1 is marked as Ex.P-2). Admittedly as per
 case of prosecution, the DVD Ex.P-2 was prepared at the
 office of Vigilance on 07.02.2014 by PW-1 HC Mahesh
 Kumar from the four DVDs i.e. three raw and one edited
 DVD which were handed over to him by PW-11 ACP Sh. L.
 C. Yadav and the data on those DVDs was copied from the
 office computer of TV Today Network, on which, allegedly
 the data was transferred from the original device, therefore,
 DVD Ex.P-2 being a secondary evidence is to be proved as
 per Section 65-B of Indian Evidence Act. 41. In case titled as Anvar P. V. Vs P. K. Basheer ,
 AIR 2015, SC 180, it has been observed that : Under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act, if
 it is desired to give a statement in any
 proceedings pertaining to an electronic record,
 it is permissible provided the following
 conditions are satisfied : It is further clarified that the person need only
 to state in the certificate that the same is to the
 best of his knowledge and belief. Most
 importantly, such a certificate must accompany
 the electronic record like computer printout, FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 30 of 37 Compact Disc (CD), Video Compact Disc
 (VCD), pen drive, etc. pertaining to which a
 statement is sought to be given in evidence,
 when the same is produced in evidence. All
 these safeguards are taken to ensure the source
 and authenticity, which are the two hallmarks
 pertaining to electronic record sought to be
 used as evidence. Electronic records being
 more susceptible to tampering, alteration,
 transposition, excision, etc. without such
 safeguards, the whole trial based on proof of
 electronic records can lead to travesty of
 justice." 42. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arjun Pandit Rao
 Khotkar Vs Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal & Ors. in
 Civil Appeal no. 20825-20826 of 2017 in its decision
 dated 14.07.2020, on the issue of certificate under section
 65B Indian Evidence Act, 1872 observed as under: 43. Thus, for the admissibility of any secondary
 evidence in digital form, the certificate under section 65B of
 Indian Evidence Act is a mandatory requirement. The
 requirement of certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act is
 to rule out any tampering with the electronic evidence
 produced on record. Source and authenticity are the two
 hallmarks pertaining to electronic record. Firstly, the
 question arises, from whom PW-11 Sh. L. C. Yadav received
 four DVDs containing raw footage as well as edited footage
 of sting operations conducted by Sh. Akshay Singh,
 undercover reporter of the Aaj Tak TV Channel. In this
 regard, PW-11 Sh. L. C. Yadav deposed that he had sent a
 letter Ex. PW-11/B to Aaj Tak news channel office to
 provide unedited original recording of the programme and
 Sh. Satya Prakash, Assistant Manager, Legal brought four
 DVDs to his office on 06.02.2014 alongwith letter of Sh.
 Punit Jain i.e. Ex. PW-11/C, but PW-14 ACP Kapil Dev, to
 whom investigation of present case was assigned, deposed
 that on 06.02.2014, he had accompanied Insp. M. S.
 Shekhawat and Insp. Virender Singh to the office of TV
 Today Network located at Noida, UP where Sh. Satya FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 32 of 37 Prakash, Assistant Manager, Legal Department, TV Today
 Network produced three unedited DVDs containing raw
 footage and one edited DVD alongwith transcript of the
 telecast and Insp. M. S. Shekhawat took all those four
 DVDs and transcription into police possession. Thus, the
 prosecution witnesses contradicts each other and deposed
 two different versions regarding receiving of three unedited
 CDs/DVDs containing raw footage and one edited DVD
 from the Aaj Tak channel. 44. Next question comes as to who was the person
 having lawful control over the use of the computer of Aaj
 Tak Channel on which the data regarding sting operation
 was transferred from the original device i.e. I-phone of
 Akshay Singh and thereupon, the data was copied in three
 DVDs containing raw footage of the sting operation for the
 purpose of furnishing certificate u/s 65-B of Indian
 Evidence Act. In this regard, prosecution has examined two
 witnesses of Aaj Tak channel i.e. PW-3 Sh. Deepak Sharma,
 who was Editor of Aaj Tak and PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain, who
 was Head of Legal & Compliances of Aaj Tak channel. PW-
 3 Sh. Deepak Sharma, Editor of Aaj Tak deposed that the
 reporters used to download raw footages of sting operations
 and prepare DVDs and that every reporter used to have his
 own desk on which he used to work including preparation of
 DVDs. He deposed that in the present case also, Sh. Akshay
 Singh downloaded the footage on his desktop and Dr. Punit
 Jain, Legal Head used to issue certificate u/s 65-B of Indian
 Evidence Act in respect of electronic records. PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain, Head Legal & Compliance has also admitted in
 his cross examination that process of transfer of recordings
 from I-phone to the computers of SIT and thereafter from
 the computers of SIT to the computer of library were not
 done in his presence. However, he issued the certificate u/s
 65-B of Indian Evidence Act i.e. Ex. PW-16/B pertaining to
 present FIR. From the testimony of PW-3 Deepak Sharma,
 it appears that although the footage of sting operation of
 present case was downloaded by Sh. Akshay Singh on his
 desktop from original device and DVDs were also prepared
 by him, but as PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain was the Head, Legal &
 Compliances, he was asked to furnish certificate u/s 65-B of
 Indian Evidence Act without considering the requirement of Section 65-B of Indian Evidence Act. Not only this, PW-18
 Insp. Vinay Kumar vide his letter Ex.PW-18/DA informed
 PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain of TVTN that he was not competent
 person to issue certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act.
 Thus, certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act issued by
 PW-16 Sh. Punit Jain i.e. Ex. PW-16/B in support of
 unedited DVDs is not admissible as Sh. Punit Jain was not
 the person having lawful control over the use of the
 computer on which the data of sting operation was
 downloaded from the original device and copied in three
 DVDs. 45. Ex.P-2 is the DVD which was prepared by PW-1
 HC Mahesh Kumar on 07.02.2014 from three unedited
 DVDs (which are Ex.P-2, P-5 and P-6 in case FIR no.
 01/2014). It is admitted case of the prosecution that three FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 34 of 37 unedited DVDs were received by PW-11 Sh. L. C. Yadav on
 06.02.2014 alongwith the reply of Sh. Punit Jain i.e. Ex.
 PW-11/C and thereafter, Sh. L. C. Yadav directed PW-1 HC
 Mahesh Kumar to prepare separate DVDs of each incident
 and to give the same to different IOs case wise. However,
 when the DVD Ex.P-2 was played before the Court for the
 purpose of finding its properties, the date of access and date
 of modification of both the files appeared as 05.02.2014.
 PW-1 HC Mahesh Kumar was reexamined by Ld. Addl. PP
 for State in this regard, but he deposed that he cannot give
 any explanation as to why date of access and date of
 modification of both the files of DVD Ex.P-2 is 05.02.2014,
 whereas it was prepared by him on 07.02.2014. Thus, Mata
 data of DVD Ex.P-2 falsify the testimony of PW-1 that he
 prepared the DVD Ex.P-2 on 07.02.2014. 46. PW-9 Sh. P. K. Gottam, Principal Scientific Officer,
 CFSL examined the DVD Ex.P-2 in photo division of CFSL
 and found that it contained two video files i.e. 2.mov and 6.mov. PW-18 Insp. Vinay Kumar admitted in his cross
 examination that whatsoever money transaction was
 available in the sting operation of the present case, it was in
 the audio video file no.2.mov. The authenticity of DVD
 Ex.P-2 containing two files i.e. 2.mov and 6.mov is also
 damaged by the evidence of PW-9 Sh. P. K. Gottam, who
 after examining the DVD Ex.P-2 concluded that there is
 tampering in file no. 2.mov of the DVD Ex.P-2 and
 explained that the cursor reflected in the mid video means
 that it is re-recorded one. 47. The question of raising adverse inference against the
 accused for not giving his voice sample would arise only
 when the contents of the video recording is proved in
 accordance with law, which has not been done in the present
 case. The source as well as authenticity of DVD Ex.P-2 is
 not established on record even by way of secondary
 evidence. Moreover, the relevant file in DVD Ex.P-2 was
 found to be tampered one. 48. Before parting, it would be relevant to note here that
 the testimony of prosecution witnesses shows that the
 investigation of present case was conducted in a
 lackadaisical manner from the initial stage till the
 investigation was finalized by the IOs. PW-11 ACP Sh. L.
 C. Yadav, who got registered the case FIR and received
 three unedited DVDs, did not seize the same or supervise
 the process of preparing separate DVDs of individual case
 before handing over the DVDs to respective IOs of seven
 FIRs. PW-18 Insp. Vinay Kumar admitted that Sh. Deepak
 Sharma was the person Incharge of computer of TVTN, but
 his certificate u/s 65-B of Indian Evidence Act was not
 obtained. Not only this, PW-18 Insp. Vinay Kumar admitted
 that Sh. Satya Prakash, Assistant Manager, Legal was one of
 the material witness in this case and submitted that he could
 not record his statement inadvertently. No efforts were made
 to brought the original device which was deposited with UP
 Vidha Sabha. 49. In view of above reasons and discussion, I am of the
 considered opinion that prosecution has miserably failed to FIR No. 04/2014, PS Vigilance State vs. HC Digambar Singh Page 36 of 37 prove its case against accused HC Digambar Singh beyond
 reasonable doubt. Accordingly, benefit of doubt is given to
 the accused and he is acquitted from the charge framed
 against him. His bail bonds stands cancelled and surety is
 discharged. 50. File be consigned to record room after due
 compliance. Digitally signed
 by SANJEEV
 SANJEEV KUMAR
 KUMAR MALHOTRA
 MALHOTRA Date: