YASHWANT VARMA, J. TABLE OF CONTENTS
 A. Introduction .................................................................................... 3

 i. The Operation, Management and Development Agreement
 and related agreements ................................................................... 11

 ii. The Dispute ................................................................................ 21

 B. The Arbitral Award ..................................................................... 30

 iii. The Minority Opinion .............................................................. 30

 iv. The Majority Opinion .............................................................. 60

 C. Submissions ................................................................................... 79

 v. AAI's submissions ..................................................................... 79

 vi. DIAL/MIAL's submissions ...................................................... 97

 D. A Brief Background ................................................................... 131

 vii. An Overview of the OMDA and SSA.................................... 133

 viii. The Role of AERA .................................................................. 161

 E. Analysis........................................................................................ 162 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 2 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 ix. The Scope of Section 34 .......................................................... 163

 x. Interpretation of ―Revenue‖ .................................................. 184

 xi. Other Income........................................................................... 222

 xii. Payments to Relevant Authorities and receipts for provision
 of electricity, water, sewage, or analogous utilities..................... 230

 xiii. The Role of the Independent Auditor ................................... 230

 F. Conclusion ................................................................................... 241

 A. INTRODUCTION 1. These two petitions under Section 34 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 19961 instituted by the Airport Authority of India2
 seek to assail the Awards dated 16 July 2022 as corrected in terms of
 Section 33 of the Act by an order dated 29 August 2022 for Mumbai
 International Airport Ltd3. The Arbitral Tribunal4 which comprised
 of three former Supreme Court Justices has rendered an Award, with
 two of the learned Arbitrators joining in rendering the Majority Opinion
 with the Presiding Arbitrator delivering a dissent. The Court shall, for
 the sake of brevity, refer to the views as expressed as the Minority and
 Majority Opinions. Both MIAL as well as the Delhi International
 Airport Limited5 had raised similar disputes. The operative part of the
 impugned Award made in the matter of DIAL is extracted hereinbelow: The award of the Presiding Arbitrator sets out the facts and
 deals with all claims/reliefs. The award by the Co-Arbitrators deals
 with those claims/reliefs in respect of which they have taken a view
 differing from that of the Presiding Arbitrator. In regard to the claims/reliefs on which the two Co-
 Arbitrators have taken a view different from that of the Presiding
 Arbitrator, their award, being the majority award would be the
 decision of the Tribunal and the award of the Presiding Arbitrator on
 those matters, will be the minority award. Where the Co-Arbitrators have agreed with the decision of
 the Presiding Arbitrator on any particular claim/relief, or do not take
 a view different from the view of the Presiding Arbitrator, the
 decisions in the A ward of the Presiding Arbitrator become the
 unanimous decisions of the Tribunal. In view of the above, to avoid
 any confusion and to bring clarity, the position emerging from the
 award of the Presiding Arbitrator and the award of the two Co-
 Arbitrators is set out below after consolidation (with the concurrence
 of all three members of the Tribunal):- not payable on depreciation, aeronautical assets are
 78(a)(iii)
 interest on borrowed funds and liable to be excluded
 the return on equity to from the 'Revenue' of
 investors (Capital Costs) and the JVC. the same shall be deducted
 from Aeronautical Charges (ii) the JVC is entitled for
 while arriving at 'pre-tax gross a further declaration
 revenue". regarding the excess
 payment made by JVC
 Declaration that UDF and/or from 21.06.2015 by
 78(a)(iv) PSF being an appropriate and mistakenly computing the
 relevant proxy for the Capital Annual Fee without
 Costs component shall be deducting the amounts
 deducted from Aeronautical falling under the above
 Charges while arriving at mentioned Heads
 "Revenue". mentioned in the previous
 sub- paragraph, are liable
 to be refunded. (ii) Charges for supply of It is declared that in
 water, sewage removal and computing the
 analogous services. "Revenue", the
 Claimant is entitled to
 exclude from the 'pre- (iii) Property taxes paid to It is declared that in
 municipal authorities. computing the
 "Revenue", the
 Claimant is entitled to
 exclude from the 'pre- tax gross revenue', all
 Property taxes paid by
 DIAL to the municipal
 authorities. (iv) Upfront fee of Rs.156.19 Rejected. Crores paid by DIAL to AAI. (v) Amount incurred for initial Rejected (as not pressed)
 capital works-in-progress. (vi) Payments towards Rejected
 voluntary retirement scheme. (vii) Payment of officers Rejected
 support cost (personnel). (viii) Payment of consultancy Rejected
 and audit cost. (ix) Payment of security It is declared that in
 equipment maintenance cost. computing the
 "Revenue", the
 Claimant is entitled to
 exclude from the 'pre- analogous utilities to the extent the Claimant from the
 of amounts paid for such provision of electricity,
 utilities to third party service water, sewerage or
 analogous utilities to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 7 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 providers. extent of amounts paid
 for such utilities to third
 party service providers. 78(b)(iii) Declaration that in computing It is declared that in
 the applicable Revenue, the computing 'Revenue',
 Claimant is entitled to exclude the Claimant is entitled
 from the 'pre-tax gross revenue' to exclude from the 'pre-
 entire consideration that tax gross revenue', the
 accrues to the Claimant from entire consideration that
 the sale of any capital assets or accrues to the Claimant
 items. from the sale of any
 capital assets or items. However, the prayer for
 return of Rs.8.95 Crores
 (45.99% of Rs.19.46
 Crores) on account of
 sale of capital assets is
 rejected (on the ground
 of limitation etc). amounting to Rs.3,873.94 21.06.2015. Therefore, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 8 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Crores for the period such examination shall
 03.05.2006 to 30.09.2018, be undertaken by the
 along with further interest on Independent Auditor to
 the said amount of Rs. determine the actual
 10,537.20 Crores at the rate amounts liable to be
 equivalent to SBI PLR+ deducted for the period
 300bps per annum thereon, commencing from
 from 01.10.2018 till the date of 21.06.2015 to the date of
 return of the aforesaid amount: this Award. Once such
 determination is made,
 AND the Annual Fee payable
 by JVC for each (ii) Further amounts (to be succeeding financial year
 quantified) towards restitution / commencing from
 return of excess Annual Fee 21.06.2015, is required to
 paid by the Claimant from be re-calculated by the
 01.10.2018 till the date of the Independent Auditor. arbitration to the Claimant. to bear their respective
 costs. 2. For the purposes of evaluating the challenge which stands raised,
 we deem it apposite to take note of the following essential facts. AAI is
 an authority constituted under the Airports Authority of India Act,
 19946 for the better administration and management of airports and
 civil aviation infrastructure. The Airports Authority of India
 (Amendment) Act, 20037 saw the introduction of Section 12-A in the
 aforesaid enactment and which enabled AAI to lease out premises of an
 airport in furtherance of the statutory functions entrusted to it. 3. Seeking private sector participation in order to scale up the
 standard of airports, the Government of India is stated to have invited
 bids for the infusion of private equity in respect of the Delhi and
 Mumbai airports. AAI, in furtherance of the above, is stated to have
 selected Joint Venture Companies8 as private partners for grant of its
 functions in connection with the operation, maintenance, upgradation
 modernization, and development of the domestic and international
 airports at Mumbai and Delhi. 4. The concession for the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj 6 AAI Act 7 2003 Amendment Act 8 JVCs Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 10 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 International Airport9 in Mumbai ultimately came to be awarded to a
 GVK-led consortium and which was followed by the incorporation of
 MIAL as a ‗Joint Venture Special Purpose Vehicle'10. The JVC of
 MIAL comprised of GVK (now known as Adani Airport Holdings Ltd.
 with effect from 14 July 2021) with approximately 74% of the
 shareholding and the balance 26% being held by AAI. A similar
 exercise was undertaken by AAI seeking infusion of private equity and
 the identification of a party which would undertake the restructuring
 and modernization of the Indira Gandhi International Airport11 in
 New Delhi. A consortium led by the GMR Group came to be identified
 as the successful bidder. This was followed by the JVC of DIAL being
 incorporated in which the GMR-led consortium acquired 74% shares
 and the remaining 26% was held by AAI. i. The Operation, Management and Development Agreement12
 and related agreements 5. Pursuant to the finalization of the bidding process, the successful
 bidders along with AAI executed the OMDA. The OMDA for both
 DIAL and MIAL were dated 04 April 2006. One of the central
 provisions of OMDA related to the Annual Fee which was payable by
 the JVC to AAI and constituted the revenue-sharing model between the
 principal stakeholders. The OMDA also envisaged additional and
 complimentary agreements being executed and which included a State
 Support Agreement13 for each airport and which came to be entered
 into between the Government of India with the JVCs on 26 April 2006. CSMIA
 10 JVC 11 IGIA 12 OMDA 13 SSA Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 11 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Along with the OMDA and the SSA, which has been noticed
 hereinabove, the parties signed the Registered Lease Deed, State
 Government Support Agreement, Shareholders Agreement, Substitution
 Agreement, CNS-ATM Agreement, Airport Operator Agreement, and
 Escrow Agreement. These nine covenants were collectively defined as
 the ‗Project Agreements' in Article 1.1 of OMDA. 6. Since the OMDA pertaining to DIAL and MIAL are more or less
 identical, we would for the sake of convenience, be referring to the
 provisions as they appear in the OMDA of DIAL. Article 2.1 the
 OMDA defined the scope of the grant in favour of the JVC and read as
 under: Aeronautical Services; (iii) determine, demand, collect, retain and appropriate
 charges from the users of the Airport in accordance with Article 12 hereto; and (iv) Contract and/or sub contract with third parties to
 undertake functions on behalf of the JVC, and sub-lease
 and/or license the Demised Premises in accordance with
 Article 8.5.7.‖ 7. The provision of criticality and which constituted the fulcrum of
 the dispute which arose between the parties is the definition of
 ‗Revenue' and which read as follows: 8. Chapter XI of the OMDA dealt with the Annual Fee which was
 payable by the JVC to AAI and the relevant parts whereof are
 reproduced hereinbelow: It is clarified that if the projected quarterly Revenue is equal
 to or less than 110% of the actual quarterly Revenue, then
 no interest shall be payable; interest shall only be payable
 on the difference between the actual quarterly Revenue and
 the projected quarterly Revenue in the event the actual
 quarterly Revenue is greater than 110% of the projected
 quarterly Revenue. 11.1.2.4 The applicable Revenue used for final
 verification/reconciliation of the AF shall be the Revenue of
 the JFC as certified by the Independent Auditor every
 quarter."‖ 9. Chapter XII of OMDA dealt with the subject of ‗Tariff and
 Regulation' and is extracted hereunder: Aeronautical Services that are also Essential Services, shall
 be provided free of charge to passengers. 12.4 Passenger Service Fees

 12.4.1 The Passenger Service Fees shall be collected and disbursed
 in accordance with the provisions of the State Support
 Agreement.‖ 10. Of equal significance are the following expressions which stood
 defined in the OMDA: 11. Schedule 5 of OMDA defined the scope of Aeronautical Services
 in the following terms: A more detailed list of the above facilities and services would
 include the following: 12. Aerodrome control services 13. Airfield 14. Airfield lighting 15. Air Taxi Services 16. Airside and landside access roads and forecourts including
 writing, traffic signals, signage and monitoring 17. Common hydrant infrastructure for aircraft fuelling services by
 authorized providers 18. Apron and aircraft parking area 19. Apron control and allocation of aircraft stands 20. Arrivals concourses and meeting areas 21. Baggage systems including outbound and reclaim
 22 Bird scaring 23. Check-in concourses 24. Cleaning, heating, lighting and air conditioning public areas 25. Customs and immigration halls 26. Emergency services 27. Facilities for the disabled and other special needs people 28. Fire service 29. Flight information and public-address systems 30. Foul and surface water drainage 31. Guidance systems and marshalling 32. Information desks 33. Inter-terminal transit systems 34. Lifts, escalators and passenger conveyors 35. Loading bridges 36. Lost property 37. Passenger and hand baggage search 38. Piers and gate rooms 39. Policing and general security 40. Prayer Rooms Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 19 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 41. Infrastructure/ Facilities for Post Offices 42. Infrastructure/ Facilities for Public telephones 43. Infrastructure/ Facilities for Banks 44. Infrastructure/ Facilities for Bureaux de Change 45. Runways 46. Signage 47. Staff search 48. Taxiways 49. Toilets and nursing mothers rooms 50. Waste and refuse treatment and disposal 51. X-Ray service for carry on and checked-in luggage 52. VIP / special lounges‖ 12. Similarly, Schedule 6 identified the Non-Aeronautical Services to
 be the following: 13. The dispute, as noted above, arose in light of AAI and
 DIAL/MIAL taking a divergent view with respect to the scope and
 meaning of the term ―Revenue‖ as occurring in the OMDA, as well as
 Article 11.1.2, which set out the process for computation of the Annual
 Fee which was payable to AAI. Both DIAL and MIAL asserted that
 they had been paying the Annual Fee on the basis of the gross receipts
 credited to their respective Profit & Loss accounts and which
 comprised charges for Aeronautical Services, Charges for Non-
 Aeronautical Services and Other Income. It was their case that the
 Annual Fee incorrectly came to be remitted on the basis of gross
 receipts instead of the amount of ―Revenue‖ as projected in the
 Business Plan. 14. It is pertinent to note that while OMDA in Chapter I relating to
 ‗Definitions and Interpretation' had explained ―Revenue‖ to mean ‗all
 pre-tax gross revenue' excluding the five principal heads of exclusion Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 21 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 specified therein, Article 11.1.2 placed the JVC under an obligation to
 pay Annual Fee which was prescribed to be 45.99% for DIAL and
 38.7% for MIAL of the ‗projected Revenue' in the Business Plan. 15. ‗Projected Revenue' was thus identified to be that which stood
 disclosed in the Business Plan. Further, Article 11.1.2.4 of the OMDA
 embodied a reconciliation exercise being undertaken dependent upon
 the difference that may ultimately be found to exist between projected
 and actual Revenue. In terms of that provision, the aforenoted
 reconciliation exercise was to be undertaken on the basis of a quarterly
 review to be overseen and certified by an Independent Auditor. 16. It has been noted by the Tribunal that both DIAL and MIAL
 continued to pay Annual Fee on the basis of the gross receipts credited
 to their individual Profit & Loss accounts till they allegedly discovered
 a mistake in February 2016 for DIAL and January 2019 for MIAL. 17. Due to the aforesaid mistake, DIAL asserted that it had paid an
 excess amount of INR 6663.25 crores as of 30 September 2018. This
 was sought to be explained by way of the following chart which stands
 extracted in the Minority Opinion: 18. The Minority Opinion rendered in the case of MIAL takes note
 of the assertion of a similar mistake and the excess payment being
 claimed to be quantifiable at INR 3582.92 crores, details whereof were
 noticed in Para 23. The tabular statement which has been taken into
 consideration for MIAL is extracted hereinbelow: 19. Both DIAL and MIAL appear to have asserted that the Annual
 Fee came to be mistakenly paid on the basis of gross receipts credited
 to their respective Profit & Loss accounts, as was insisted by AAI. It
 was their case that excess payments came to be made on account of an
 incorrect understanding of their contractual obligations and was thus
 liable to be returned by AAI. On the basis of the pleadings that were
 taken in the claim petition, DIAL and MIAL sought reliefs which were
 identified by the Presiding Arbitrator in the following terms : under OMDA. (ii) the MAF/Annual Fee is payable on the "Revenue" as defined in
 OMDA and not on the basis of the gross receipts credited to P&L
 Account. (iii) Annual Fee is not payable on depreciation, interest on borrowed
 funds and the return on equity to investors (Capital Costs) and the
 same shall be deducted from Aeronautical Charges while arriving at
 'pre-tax gross revenue'; (iv) UDF and/or PSF being an appropriate and relevant proxy for the
 Capital Costs component shall be deducted from Aeronautical
 Charges while arriving at "Revenue". b) Pass an Award declaring that in computing the applicable
 Revenue, the Claimant is entitled to exclude from the 'pre-tax gross
 revenue' inter-alia the following: (ii) Further amounts (to be quantified) towards restitution/return of
 excess Annual Fee paid by the Claimant from 01.10.2018 till the
 date of the Award along with interest at the rate equivalent to SBI
 PLR + 300bps per annum, calculated from the end of each quarter in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 25 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 which such excess Annual Fee was paid till the date of return of the
 aforesaid amounts: off the amounts awarded in terms of Prayers (a) to (e) above or any
 part thereof against any and all amounts including Annual Fee
 payable to the Respondent from time to time until full
 recovery/payments of the awarded amounts; g) Grant such further and other reliefs as the nature and
 circumstances of the case may require. xxxx xxxx xxxx 25. On the above pleadings, MIAL has sought the following reliefs: b) Pass an award declaring that the Annual Fee payable by the
 Claimant to the Respondent would only be on the revenue generated
 from Aeronautical Services and Non-Aeronautical Services only
 along with exclusions as contained in the definition of ‗Revenue' as
 provided under OMDA and also such deductions (depreciation,
 interest on borrowed funds and the return on equity to investors)
 which may be allowed from time to time, as the case may be; c) Pass an award allowing the Claimant to set-off the amount
 awarded in terms of prayer (a) above against any amount payable by
 the Claimant to the Respondent including the Annual Fee, till full
 recovery of the awarded amount; d) Pass an award directing the Respondent to pay full costs of this
 arbitration, to the Claimant; and e) Pass such other or further orders as this Hon'ble Tribunal may
 deem fit and proper in the facts of the case, and in the interest of
 justice.‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 26 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 20. On being placed on notice of the claim, AAI filed its Statement
 of Defence14 before the Tribunal and took identical objections to the
 claims that were raised by DIAL and MIAL. Since those objections
 were more or less common, we take note of the recordal of facts as
 appearing in the Minority Opinion in the case of DIAL and which
 identified those objections to be the following: except the five specific exclusions permitted under the definition of
 "Revenue" are permissible from the cumulative value of all revenue
 of DIAL recognising the P&L Account. (d) The definition of term "Revenue" has to be given its plain and
 ordinary meaning. It is not permissible to deduct depreciation,
 interest on debt or return on equity from the Aeronautical Charges,
 or exclude the Other Income (income other than from Aeronautical
 Services and Non-Aeronautical Services), from the cumulative value
 of all revenue for the purpose of arriving at the 'pre-tax gross
 revenue'. (e) There was no excess payment by DIAL towards annual value
 nor was any excess payment made by DIAL by mistake. SoD Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 27 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 (f) DIAL is not entitled to deduct the following as 'payments made
 for the activities undertaken by Relevant Authorities under
 Exclusion No.(a) in the definition of "Revenue": (i) Upfront fee
 under Article 11.1.1, (ii) payments for initial capital works in
 progress under Article 5.4 , (iii) payments towards Voluntary
 Retirement Scheme under Article 6.1.4, (iv) payments towards
 Officers Support Cost under Article 6.2 , (v) Consultancy and Audit
 Costs, (vi) power and electricity charges paid to BSES Rajadhani
 Power Ltd (vii) property tax, (viii) security equipment maintenance
 cost and (ix) maintenance expenses with respect to area occupied by
 Relevant Authorities. (g) DIAL is entitled to exclude only the profit booked upon sale of a
 capital asset under Exclusion (c) of "Revenue" and is not entitled to
 deduct the entire consideration received by sale of capital asset. (h) Meaning of "Revenue" has to be ascertained from the definition
 and from the terms of OMDA entered between DIAL and AAI. Even
 though SSA is a project document, it is not permissible to rely upon
 any provision of SSA in particular, principles 1 and 2 of tariff
 fixation contained in Schedule I of SSA, to interpret or understand
 the meaning of "Revenue". The object and purpose of tariff fixation
 under SSA (to which AAI is not a party) and the object and purpose
 of Annual Fee under OMDA (to which AAI is a party) are different
 and one does not depend on the other. (i) DIAL's reliance upon the judgment dated 23.4.2015 of the
 TDSAT, in regard to the definition of "Revenue" is misconceived as
 the decision of TDSAT, was in the context of liberty granted by the
 Supreme Court in Union of India V. Association of Unified Telecom
 Service Providers of India - (20 11) 10 SCC 543 to challenge the
 demands raised by Government of India on Telecom Licensees and
 nothing to do with the determination of "Revenue" under OMDA. The contentions of AAI are more fully set out while dealing with the
 different issues/ questions.‖ 21. A list of disputes is thereafter stated to have been drawn up. The
 points for determination in the case of DIAL and MIAL were ultimately
 identified to be the following: (b) Whether respondent is liable to pay/refund the excess annual fee
 paid from 1.10.2018 to date? (6) Whether claimant is entitled to interest on Rs.10,537.20 crores or
 any amount found due and payable under Dispute (5)(b), at a rate
 equivalent to SBI PLR plus 300 BPS per annum from 1.10.2018 till
 date of payment? (7) Whether either party is entitled to costs? 27. On the said pleadings, the parties formulated and filed the
 following joint list of points for determination on 13.10.2019: (b) If so, whether the Claimant is entitled to claim set-off of a
 sum of Rs. 3,582.90 Crores + Rs. 585.07 Crores against
 amounts due and payable to the Respondent by the Claimant,
 as prayed for in Prayer (a) read with Prayer (c) at Pg. 42 of
 the Statement of Claim? (4) Whether the Claimant is entitled to the declaratory relief prayed
 for at Prayer (b) at Pg. 42 of the Statement of Claim? (5) Whether either party is entitled to costs?‖

 B. THE ARBITRAL AWARD 22. Insofar as the present petitions are concerned, submissions were
 principally urged on the question of the meaning liable to be ascribed to
 the terms ‗Revenue' and ‗projected Revenue' as appearing in the
 OMDA, the computation of Annual Fee payable to AAI and the heads
 of income which were liable to be excluded therefrom. Although a
 plethora of issues were urged for the consideration of the Arbitral
 Tribunal, the arguments before this Court stood confined to the
 following: - (a) the items of income which were liable to be excluded, if
 at all, from shareable revenue, (b) whether ―Other income‖ could have
 formed part of shareable revenue and (c) whether the exercise of
 computation of the monetary claims of DIAL/MIAL could have been
 entrusted to an Independent Auditor. iii. The Minority Opinion 23. The Presiding Arbitrator whose opinion constitutes the minority
 notes that the primary contention of DIAL was that ―capital costs‖ were
 liable to be excluded from gross receipts. This becomes evident from a
 reading of Para 58 which is extracted hereinbelow: [Referred in the definition of "Revenue" in Article 1.1 of OMDA]

 ↓(minus)

 Items that are specified to be deducted from "pre-tax gross revenue" = (equals)

 III. "REVENUE" [Note: 45.99% of which is payable to the Respondent as Annual
 Fee]‖ 24. AAI, on the other hand, had principally argued that ‗projected
 Revenue' and which expression appears in Chapter XI of the OMDA
 would have to derive meaning and draw colour from the definition
 clause and consequently only the five exclusions specified therein being
 liable to be ignored and eliminated for the purposes of computation of
 ‗Revenue'. It appears to have been urged that bearing in mind the
 definition of ‗Revenue' and the use of the expression ‗all pre-tax gross
 revenue' therein, it could only mean the total receipts which fell in the
 hands of DIAL and MIAL and thus comprise of Aeronautical Charges,
 Non-Aeronautical Charges as well as Other Income. This becomes
 apparent from a reading of Para 59 of the Minority Opinion and which
 while recording the submissions of AAI has noted as under: 25. The crux of the dispute came to be succinctly identified in the
 Minority Opinion in Para 60 and which is extracted hereunder: 26. The Minority Opinion firstly proceeded to rule upon the question
 of whether capital costs and which were asserted to consist of
 depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity were liable to be
 deducted from the total receipts for the purposes of calculating ‗pre-tax
 gross revenue'. The aforesaid question ultimately came to be answered
 in the following terms: tax", "gross" and "revenue" are terms used in accounting parlance,
 with generally recognised meaning (unless otherwise specifically
 defined). 82. The word "pre-tax" means "before tax" or "before provision for
 (or payment of) income tax" or "existing before the assessment or
 deduction of taxes" (vide Black's Law Dictionary 8th Edition Page
 1225 and P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Advanced Law Lexicon). The word
 "pre-tax" is normally used, in the term "pre-tax earnings" or "pre-tax
 income". In this case, the parties have clearly used the words "pre-
 tax gross revenue", which means the total receipts (either by
 providing services or sale of products) without any kind of
 deduction. If the parties had intended that depreciation, interest on
 debt and return on equity, should be deducted from the total receipts
 to arrive at "pre-tax gross revenue" (in addition to the five specified
 exclusions), the parties would have enumerated them in addition to
 the specified exclusions, or would have defined "pre-tax gross
 revenue" as total receipts less 'depreciation, interest on debt and
 return on equity'. Alternatively, the Parties would have used
 appropriate words or phrases which would have indicated that the
 three items (depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity)
 should also be excluded in addition to the five enumerated items, to
 arrive at the "Revenue" per year, 45.99% of which will have to be
 paid to AAI as "Annual Fee". 83. 'Receipts', 'Revenue', 'Income', 'Gross Income', 'Net Income',
 'Earnings', are commonly used phrases in accounting parlance. In
 generally followed accounting practice, 'Receipts' refers to any cash
 flow/receivables of a company; 'Gross Revenue' or 'Revenue' or
 'Gross Income refers to any form of income of a company (either by
 sale of products or by rendering of services, apart from interest,
 royalty and dividends wherever applicable) generated, before
 deducting expenses; 'Capital Receipts' will refer to non-recurring
 receipts that either increase the liability or decrease the assets; 'Pre-
 tax Net Income' or 'Pre- tax Net Earnings' will refer to Gross Income
 or Gross Revenue less operational expenses, overheads, depreciation
 and interest on borrowings. While all 'Income' are 'Receipts', all
 'Receipts' are not 'Income'. While 'Revenue Receipts' affect the
 statement of profit and loss, the 'Capital Receipts' will not affect the
 statement of profit and loss. These words may also have certain
 extended, restricted or special or specified meanings, if they are so
 defined in any statute or in contract, or so implied, depending on the
 context. The definition of 'Revenue' in the OMDA, is an example of
 the term 'Revenue' having a specific meaning as contrasted from the
 general meaning. Thus, wherever the parties intend that the general Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 34 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 accounting terms should have specific or special meaning, the words
 would be accordingly defined. As noticed above, the parties gave a
 special definition to the term "Revenue", but did not define the terms
 "pre-tax gross revenue", "Capital Asset" and "Bad Debts" used in the
 definition of the term "Revenue", thereby indicating those words in
 the definition of the term "Revenue" should carry the general
 meaning attached to those words in Indian accounting terminology. xxxx xxxx xxxx 86. The use of the word 'all' preceding 'pre-tax gross revenue' is also
 significant. Referring to a similar provision where "gross revenue'"'" Therefore, the use of the word 'all' preceding the words 'pre-tax
 gross revenue' and the specific enumeration of the five items to be
 excluded from "pre-tax gross revenue", give a clear indication that
 the "all pre-tax gross revenue" does not permit any additional
 exclusion of 'depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity'
 sought by DIAL. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 Whether words can be added to a provision in a contract to give
 business efficacy to the contract, when the terms of the contract are
 clear and unambiguous? 89. The definition of the term "Revenue" uses the words "Revenue
 means all pre-tax gross revenue of JVC excluding....". The definition
 is thus self-contained and exhaustive. What are to be included and
 what are to be excluded are specifically stated in the definition. The
 definition is clear and ambiguous. Further, the use of the word 'all'
 before 'pre-tax gross revenue of JVC' and use of the words
 'excluding the following' after "pre-tax gross revenue of JVC" would
 indicate that each and every revenue receipt, should be included in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 35 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the "pre-tax gross revenue" and the only items are to be excluded
 from the "pre-tax gross revenue" are the five items enumerated in the
 definition. xxxx xxxx xxxx 91. The following items enumerated as amounts to be deducted from
 the "pre-tax gross revenue" to arrive at "Revenue" also give an
 indication as to why the term "pre-tax gross revenue" used by the
 Parties in the definition of "Revenue" literally means only the "pre-
 tax gross revenue": The enumeration of five items to be excluded shows that the "pre-tax
 gross revenue" refers to total receipts by way of Aeronautical
 Services, Non- Aeronautical Services and other income. It is also
 significant that the parties used the term "all pre-tax gross revenue" But only the most limited term should then be implied the
 bare minimum to achieve this goal. If the contract makes
 business sense without the term, the courts will not imply Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 37 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the same. The following passage from the opinion of
 Bowen, L.J. in the Moorcock: ... ‗In business transactions such as this, what the law desires
 to effect by the implication is to give such business efficacy
 to the transaction as must have been intended at all events
 by both parties who are businessmen; not to impose on one
 side all the perils of the transaction, or to emancipate one
 side from all the chances of failure, but to make each party
 promise in law as much, at all events, as it must have been
 in the contemplation of both parties that he should be
 responsible for in respect of those perils or chances.' 34. Though in an entirely different context, this Court in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Manubhai
 Dharmasinhbhai Gajera (2008) 10 SCC 404 had considered
 the circumstances when reading an unexpressed term in an
 agreement would be justified on the basis that such a term
 was always and obviously intended by and between the
 parties thereto. Certain observations in this regard expressed
 by courts in some foreign jurisdictions were noticed by this
 Court in para 51 of the Report. As the same may have
 application to the present case it would be useful to notice
 the said observations: 35. The business efficacy test, therefore, should be applied
 only in cases where the term that is sought to be read as
 implied is such which could have been clearly intended by
 the parties at the time of making of the agreement...." In this case the definition of "Revenue" is specific, clear and
 exhaustive. What should be the base and what should be the
 exclusion/deduction is specified. In such a case, it is necessary to
 give effect to the plain and ordinary meaning of the words and it is
 impermissible to add words, let alone additional terms to the
 definition of "Revenue" by relying upon the business efficacy
 principle. 94. If the Tribunal were to accept the interpretation suggested by
 DIAL by adding to the enumerated exclusions in the definition of
 "Revenue", the Tribunal would be committing what the Supreme
 Court describes as fundamental breach of a fundamental principle of
 justice. In Ssangyong Engineering & Construction Co Ltd., Vs
 NHAI - (2019)13 SCC131, the Supreme Court reversed the decision
 of an Arbitral Tribunal which purported to substitute the workable
 formula under the contract, with another formula not found in the
 agreement, with the following observations: Therefore, DIAL's claim and contention that the definition of
 'Revenue" in the OMDA should be read in a manner that "Capital
 Costs" / "PSF and UDF" collected by DIAL (forming part of the
 Aeronautical Charges) are treated as exclusions from "all pre-tax
 gross revenue" in addition to the five enumerated exclusions, is
 rejected. 95. DIAL contended that if the Aeronautical Charges (as fixed by
 AERA) collected from the users of the airport, are treated as the
 "sharable revenue" without deducting the amounts borrowed to
 create the aeronautical assets, DIAL will not be able to recover the
 costs incurred for creating the aeronautical assets, from the
 Aeronautical Charges as provided in Article 12.1 of OMDA; and
 that any interpretation which leads to such "impossibility" to recover
 the cost of aeronautical assets and to service the debts secured for
 developing the aeronautical assets, would render Article 12.1 nugatory and any such interpretation rendering a provision of the
 contract nugatory should be avoided. 96. Even assuming what is contended/alleged by DIAL is true, the
 alleged impossibility is its own making. DIAL could have very well
 saved itself from such a situation by offering a lesser share to AAI.
 Having offered a higher share, either with the object of obtaining a
 huge and prestigious contract or by reason of assuming/estimating a
 higher revenue and lower expenditure, it cannot, when subsequent
 reality proves to be otherwise, attempt to put forth a construction
 which is neither warranted, nor permissible, nor thought of by it for
 more than a decade of its effective implementation, with a view to
 increase its revenue/ income. It is not permissible to move the goal
 post after the game has started.‖ 28. The Minority Opinion proceeded to come to the following
 conclusion: 29. The respondent-claimants further appear to have urged that the
 Project Agreements were liable to be read compendiously and in
 conjunction with each other and consequently all factors taken note of
 for the purposes of tariff determination under the SSA being liable to be
 considered in order to understand what could constitute ‗Revenue'
 under the OMDA. This becomes apparent from a reading of Paras 104
 and 106 of the Minority Opinion and which are extracted hereinbelow: tax gross revenue' is after deduction of capital costs (i.e.,
 depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity), then a combined Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 41 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 reading of Chapter XII of OMDA with the provisions of the SSA,
 would make the said position clear. It is submitted that Article 12.1.1
 of OMDA and Clause 1.1 of SSA define 'Aeronautical Charges' as
 the charges to be levied at the Airport by JVC for the provision of
 Aeronautical Services and consequent recovery of costs relating to
 Aeronautical Assets. Article 12.1.2 of OMDA provides that the JVC
 shall at all times ensure that the Aeronautical Charges levied at the
 Airport shall be as determined as per the provisions of the SSA.
 Clause 3 of SSA lists the support to be provided by the Government
 of India (GoI) to DIAL. Under Clause 3.1.1 of SSA, Gol agreed to
 use reasonable efforts to have the Airport Economic Regulatory
 Authority (AERA) established and operating within two years.
 Under the said clause, and agreed and confirmed that: 30. Those submissions came to be negated by the Presiding
 Arbitrator standing in minority in the following terms: sharing arrangement agreed between AAI and DIAL under the
 OMDA. The relied-upon provisions of SSA merely ensures that
 while determining/approving the tariff (i.e., the charges to be levied
 at the Airport by DIAL for providing Aeronautical Services and
 consequent recovery of costs relating to Aeronautical Assets,
 referred to as Aeronautical Charges), AERA will adopt a price cap
 methodology that would ensure generation of sufficient revenue by
 DIAL to cover not only efficient operating cost but also ensure that
 DIAL obtains the return of capital over its economic life
 (depreciation) and achieves a reasonable return on investment
 commensurate with the risk involved (i.e., interest on debt and return
 on equity). 111. Therefore, the scheme of OMDA and the project agreements is: shareable income: 145. In AUSPI-II, the Supreme Court again considered the term
 'adjusted gross revenue' used in the Telecom Licence Agreement and
 held as under while reiterating what was held in AUSPI-I (vide paras
 64, 65 and 66): 64 ..... In our considered opinion, when there is a
 contractual definition as to what would be the gross revenue
 that would be the revenue and also the total revenue, the
 revenue as mentioned in the mode of accounting AS-9
 (Accounting Standard-9) cannot govern the definition. The
 general definition of revenue in the mode of accounting
 cannot govern the contractual definition of gross revenue. 65. As per Clause 20.4, a licensee must make quarterly
 payment in the prescribed format as Annexure II showing
 the computation of revenue and licence fee payable. The
 format is part of the licence and is independent of
 accounting standards and is in tune with the definition of
 gross revenue, and is the basis for the calculation of licence
 fee. It is only for uniformity that the account has to be
 maintained as per accounting standards AS-9 which are
 prescribed from time to time. Once the licensee provides the
 details to the Government in format Annexure II along with
 accounts certified by the auditor, the reconciliation has to
 take place. The accounting standard AS-9 is relevant only
 for whether the figure given by the licensee as to gross
 revenue is maintained in proper manner once gross revenue
 is ascertained. then after certain deductions, adjusted gross
 revenue has to be worked out. The accounting standard
 provided in AS-9 cannot override the definition of gross
 revenue, which is the total revenue for licence and the
 finding in Union of India v. Assn. of Unified Telecom
 Service Providers of India [Union of India v. Assn. of
 Unified Telecom Service Providers of India, (2011) 10 SCC
 543] in this regard is final, binding and operative. The
 accounting standard AS-9 makes it clear that same is in the
 form of guidelines, it is not comprehensive and does not
 supersede the practice of accounting. It only lays down a
 system in which accounts have to be maintained.
 Accounting standards make it clear that it does not provide
 for a straitjacket formula for accounting but merely provides Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 48 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 for guidelines to maintain the account books in systematic
 manner. 66. Though the definition of revenue given in Clause 4.1 of
 AS-9 cannot govern the contract, the contractual definition
 of gross revenue which is the gross revenue under Clause
 19.1 and total revenue for the purpose of the agreement for
 which an independent definition has been carved out under
 the statutory power while parting with the privilege under Section 4 by the Central Government, once the contract has
 been entered into, the definition of gross revenue is binding,
 and the licensees cannot try to wriggle out of the decision
 by making impermissible attempts to depart from it. ...
 Given the definition of gross revenue, the same includes
 revenue from activities beyond the licence. Explanation to
 Clause 5 of AS-9 also makes it clear that the agreement
 between the parties would determine the amount of revenue
 arising on a transaction." 146. The decisions in AUSPI-I and AUSPI-II dealt with the question
 of what constitutes shareable gross revenue in respect of telecom
 licences granted by Government of India to telecom service
 providers. The principles laid down by the Supreme Court while
 considering whether other income, that is, income other than telecom
 services, has to be considered as part of the gross revenue to be
 shared with the government are equally applicable in regard to the
 transfer of certain functions by AAI under OMDA in favour of
 DIAL. 147. In Union of India Vs. Association of Unified Telecom Service
 Providers of India and others - (2020) 3 SCC 525, the Supreme
 Court had occasion to consider a somewhat similar contention of
 Telecom Service Providers that the revenue earned by licensee from
 rent/leasing out passive infrastructure should not form part of
 adjusted gross revenue and should be excluded from 'adjusted gross
 revenue'. The Supreme Court held: In view of the above, it is clear that the VRS payment paid by DIAL
 to AAI, is part of the Operational Support Cost payable by DIAL to
 AAI under Chapter VI of OMDA in discharge of its contractual
 obligations. The said payments cannot therefore be considered as
 'payments for activities undertaken by relevant authorities' falling
 under Exclusion (a) of "Revenue". Further, definition of "Revenue"
 in OMDA makes it clear that no part of Operation Support Cost Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 52 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 payable to AAI shall be deducted from "Revenue". Therefore, the
 claim for deduction of Voluntary Retirement Scheme payments to
 AAI is rejected.‖ 42. Proceeding then to consider the claim of payments that DIAL
 had made to Relevant Authorities other than AAI, the Minority Opinion
 insofar as power and electricity charges were concerned held that BSES
 Rajdhani Power Limited was a Relevant Authority and payments made
 to it would fall in the category of payments received for provision of
 electricity and paid for utilities and third party service providers. It
 accordingly held that any of those amounts, if included in computation
 of Annual Fee, would be liable to be refunded. Similar conclusions
 came to be rendered with reference to water, sewage and analogous
 utilities. 43. Another head in respect to which exclusion was claimed was
 property tax payments. Dealing with this aspect, the Minority while
 rejecting the claim raised in this respect held as follows: 44. The Presiding Arbitrator also held in favour of the claimants
 insofar as receipts from sale of capital assets was concerned, as would
 be apparent from a reading of Para 211 and which is extracted
 hereinbelow: 45. AAI also appears to have raised an issue of limitation with it
 being contended that the claim was clearly barred by virtue of the
 provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 . While answering the aforesaid
 issue, the Presiding Arbitrator held that bearing in mind the original
 notice of 21 June 2018 which had been issued by DIAL for amicable Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 54 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 settlement, excess payments made within three years prior to that date
 alone would be within limitation. The claim of DIAL thus, in essence
 stood restricted to three years prior to 21 June 2018. This becomes
 apparent from Para 218 which is reproduced hereunder: Consequently, any excess payment made within three years prior to
 21.6.2018 i.e., any excess payment made on or after 21.6.2015, will
 be within limitation.‖ 46. Insofar as the argument of excess payments having been made
 under a mistake or misconception, the same came to be answered
 against DIAL in the Minority Opinion in the following terms: 47. The argument of AAI that the excess payments made under a
 mistake cannot be refunded, however, was rejected. The learned
 Arbitrator constituting the Minority ultimately proceeded to record the
 following conclusions: The declaration sought in regard to the following are
 rejected: (i) payment of upfront fee, (ii) amount incurred
 for initial capital works-in -progress, (iii) payments
 under voluntary retirement scheme, (iv) payment of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 57 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 officers support cost (personnel), consultancy and audit
 cost, security equipment maintenance cost and
 maintenance expenses with respect to the area occupied
 by Relevant Authorities. V. Prayer in para 78(b )(ii) of SoC: Declaration that in computing
 the applicable Revenue, the Claimant is entitled to exclude from the
 'pre-tax gross revenue' payments received by the Claimant from the
 provision of electricity, water, sewerage or analogous utilities to the
 extent of amounts paid for such utilities to third party service
 providers. Award: It is declared that in computing the "Revenue",
 the Claimant is entitled to exclude from the 'pre-tax
 gross revenue' payments received by the Claimant from
 the provision of electricity, water, sewerage or analogous
 utilities to the extent of amounts paid for such utilities to
 third party service providers. VI. Prayer in para 78(b )(iii) of SoC: Declaration that in computing
 the applicable Revenue, the Claimant is entitled to exclude from the
 'pre-tax gross revenue' entire consideration that accrues to the
 Claimant from the sale of any capital assets or items.
 Award: It is declared that in computing the applicable
 Revenue, the Claimant is entitled to exclude from the
 'pre-tax gross revenue', the entire consideration that
 accrues to the Claimant from the sale of any capital
 assets or items. VII. Prayer in para 78(c) of SoC: Declaration that no Annual Fee is
 payable on the Other Income, i.e., income other than from
 Aeronautical Services and NonAeronautical Services provided by
 the Claimant. Award: Rejected
 VIII. Prayer in para 78(d)(i)&(ii) of SoC: Grant restitution by
 directing the Respondent to return the excess amount of Annual Fee
 paid by the Claimant under a mistake to the following extent: AND Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 58 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 (ii) Further amounts (to be quantified) towards restitution/return of
 excess Annual Fee paid by the Claimant from 01.10.2018 till the date
 of the Award along with interest at the rate equivalent to SBI PLR +
 300bps per annum, calculated from the end of each quarter in which
 such excess Annual Fee was paid till the date of return of the
 aforesaid amounts; Award: (b) If any amount has been received by DIAL by sale of any
 capital assets/items between 1.10.2018 until date of award, the
 same shall be calculated and determined by the independent
 auditor appointed under Clause 11.2 of OMDA within three
 months from today and DIAL is entitled to deduction of the said
 sum from "Revenue" and consequently DIAL will be entitled to
 credit of any amount paid as Annual Fee on such sum. (c) DIAL will be entitled to adjust the excess payments,
 determined by the independent auditor (in regard to
 electricity/power charges and sale of capital assets) towards
 future Annual Fee payable by DIAL. (d) The following prayers for refund of 'excess' Annual Fee paid
 for the period 2006-07 to 2018-19 (30.9.2018) and for the period
 1.10.2018 to date of award, are rejected: IX. Prayer in para 78(e) of SoC: Grant all costs of the arbitration to
 the Claimant. Award: Both parties are directed to bear their respective
 costs. X. Prayer in para 78(j) of SoC: Direction that the Claimant shall be
 entitled to setoff the amounts awarded in terms of Prayers (a) to (e)
 above or any part thereof against any and all amounts including
 Annual Fee payable to the Respondent from time to time until full
 recovery/payments of the awarded amounts; Award: This relief has been granted above in Item No.
 VIII above. XI. Prayer in para 78(g) of SoC: Grant such further and other reliefs
 as the nature and circumstances of the case may require. 48. Turning then to the Majority Opinion which came to be
 pronounced in the case of DIAL, the Co-Arbitrators firstly concurred
 with the Minority view insofar as arbitrability of disputes was
 concerned. However, they expressed their inability to concur with that
 opinion insofar as the declaratory reliefs which were sought in Para
 78(a) of the Statement of Claim17 of DIAL. 49. The first and principal issue which consequently came to be
 flagged was the exclusion of certain sums from the receipts credited to 17 SoC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 60 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the Profit & Loss account of DIAL and the Majority thus proceeding to
 examine as to what would fall within the meaning of the expression
 ―shareable revenue‖. After taking note of the provisions contained in
 the Project Agreements, they observed as follows: The legal relationship arising out of the OMDA and other
 Project Agreements is designed to promote and operate an efficient
 commercial enterprise i.e. in the interest of BETTER
 MANAGEMENT OF THE AIRPORT (see Preamble to OMDA). If
 JVC - a commercial enterprise is required to invest huge amounts of
 funds ( either from it's capital or borrowed)for fulfilling various
 obligations incurred by it under OMDA.Necessarily JVC will have
 to recover sufficient amounts in order to discharge IT's legal
 obligations to the lending Financial Institutions, etc. and IT's
 shareholders. It is in recognition of the fact that JVC is required to
 meet the above financial obligations to its lenders and shareholders;
 OMDA expressly confers necessary authority and right in favour of
 JVC to collect various CHARGES and Fees. xxxx xxxx xxxx 37. Article 12.1.1 of OMDA declares that the Aeronautical Charges
 are charges that could be collected from the users of Aeronautical
 Services rendered by JVC and the purpose of collection of
 Aeronautical Charges is to recover the costs relating to the
 Aeronautical Assets. OMDA clearly recognises under Article 12.1.1 that the provision
 of such Aeronautical Services require creation, operation and
 maintenance of certain Aeronautical Assets. Therefore, Article 12.1.1
 stipulates in express terms that the Aeronautical charges are meant to
 enable JVC to recover costs relating to aeronautical assets. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 62 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 language is very significant. The purpose of collecting Aeronautical
 Charges is not to recover the costs of the creation of Aeronautical
 Assets alone. The purpose is to recover the costs RELATING TO
 Aeronautical Assets. Normally, it can only mean ALL the
 expenditure incurred by the JVC in relation to the
 AERONAUTICAL ASSETS. Therefore, the expression should
 comprehend not only the costs incurred by the JVC for the creation
 of Aeronautical Assets but also for the costs for the maintenance, up-
 gradation of the Aeronautical Assets and providing various
 Aeronautical Services (specified in Schedule 5 to OMDA) but also
 the costs for securing and retaining the right to perform the
 AERONAUTICAL SERVICES i.e. the Upfront Fee and the Annual
 Fee.‖ 50. Proceeding further to Chapter XI itself, the Majority observed: If such conclusion follows from the Scheme of OMDA particularly
 from the definition of the expression 'BUSINESS PLAN' where the
 expression 'FINANCIAL PROJECTION', occurs. Coupled with the
 stipulation under Article 11.1.2 saying that "where the Projected
 Revenue for each year shall be AS SET FORTH in the BUSINESS
 PLAN", it would be the legal right of JVC to set forth in the
 Business Plan, the Projected Revenue by appropriately providing for
 the deduction of the COSTS RELATING TO AERONAUTICAL
 SERVICES. Apparently the JVC fell into error by declaring in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 64 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 BUSINESS PLANS submitted for successive years that all Cash
 Received by it to be its 'SHARABLE REVENUE'. Obviously it
 happened because the JVC followed the accounting practices
 applicable to the Companies registered under the Companies Act , (as
 required under sec 211 read with part 11 of the companies act) in
 preparing the annual Profit & Loss Statement without clearly
 analysing and understanding its RIGHTS flowing from the
 SCHEME and TEXT of OMDA. JVC failed to distinguish between
 the accounting practice of identifying the REVENUE for the purpose
 of preparing the annual PROFIT & LOSS Statement of JVC as
 required under the Companies Act and the need to identify
 'PROJECTED REVENUE' for the purpose of sharing the same with
 AAI. It must be remembered that the obligation of JVC under Article
 11.1.2.1 is to share only 45.99% of the 'PROJECTED REVENUE'
 but not the 'Revenue' as understood in the accounting parlance. The
 JVC while making the 'FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS' ought to have
 clearly identified its 'Projected Revenue' for the purpose of sharing
 with AAI after excluding the amounts necessary for RECOVERING
 the COSTS RELATING TO THE AERONAUTICAL ASSETS
 which includes the amount needed for discharging its obligations
 towards repayment of the installments of borrowed capital and the
 interest thereon. They are outstanding legal liabilities owed to the
 third parties such as banks and other financial institutions. In our
 opinion, in law, JVC would be perfectly justified in making such a
 Financial Projection. If all the cash receipts of the JVC are to be
 shared with the AAI, there is no purpose in the stipulation under
 Article 11.1.2.1 that
 Annual Fee= 45.99% of Projected Revenue for the said year where
 Projected Revenue for each year shall be set forth in the Business
 Plan". If the submission of AAI that all the cash received by JVC is
 required to be shared with AAI is right, it would have sufficed to
 state in Article 11.1.2.1 that Annual Fee = 45.99% of the REVENUE.
 However, both JVC and AAI proceeded on the mistaken
 understanding that the Annual Fee payable by JVC is 45.99% of the
 "Revenue" as defined under OMDA. Therefore, according to AAI, the entire pre-tax gross revenue
 i.e. all the money received by JVC from whatever source (for the
 sake of convenience hereafter referred to as 'RECEIPTS') unless
 anyone of those receipts falls under one of the five Heads of the
 excluded classes of financial transactions, enumerated in the
 definition of the expression 'Revenue' is liable to be taken into Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 65 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 consideration for the purpose of sharing 45.99% thereof towards the
 Annual Fee. 44. On the other hand, it is the case of JVC that conceptually,
 revenue and cash receipts cannot be equated. To treat every
 RECEIPT as 'REVENUE' would lead to absurd commercial
 consequences. More so, having regard to the scheme of the OMDA,
 which restricts JVC's liberty to recover the amounts incurred by it
 for securing and performing the various obligations arising out of the
 contract (OMDA) by collecting and appropriating sufficient
 AERONAUTICAL CHARGES. Therefore, it must be understood in
 the commercial sense i.e. in the light of the well established
 principles of commerce.‖ 51. It thereafter proceeded to significantly observe as under: Number of decisions are cited on either side in support of
 their respective submissions as to the construction of expression
 'Revenue' and 'Pre-Tax Gross Revenue' occurring in the definition of
 the expression 'Revenue'. Those decisions are elaborately discussed
 by the learned Presiding Arbitrator. AAI's submission proceeded on the basis that what is
 sharable by the JVC is the total 'Pre-Tax Gross Revenue'. AAI for the
 said purpose relied on two American decisions in Public Service Vs.
 Denver- 387 P.ED 33 (Colo.1963) and Lane Electric Cooperative
 Inc. v. Department of Revenue - 765 P.2D 1237 (Or.1988). These two
 decisions deal with the construction of expression 'Gross Revenue'
 and 'All Gross Revenue'. Relying on them, AAI argued that the
 definition of the expression 'Revenue under OMDA cannot be read
 countenance to any limitations other than those expressly mentioned
 in the definition by resorting some undefined concept of commercial
 sense, as argued by JVC. Reliance is also sought to be placed on the judgment of
 Supreme Court in reported in 2018 (3) SCC 716- Transmission
 Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Vs,. GMR Vemagiri Power
 Generation Ltd. In our opinion, the said judgment would support the
 argument of JVC than the submission of AAI. At paragraph 26 of the
 said judgment, the Supreme Court recognized the possibility of
 interpreting a commercial document in a manner to arrive at a
 conclusion which is at complete variance what may originally the
 intendment of the parties and such a situation can only be
 contemplated when the implied terms can be considered to lend
 efficacy to the terms of contract. Insofar as it is relevant for our
 purpose, reads as follows: 52. As is apparent from the above, the Majority principally found
 that both sides had misconstrued the terms of the contract and
 commended for the consideration of the Tribunal a view which was
 clearly misconceived. In its opinion, the obligation of the JVC was to
 share ‗projected Revenue' as opposed to ‗Revenue'. It thus observed
 that the heart of the dispute would be the meaning to be ascribed to the
 expression ―projected Revenue‖ as occurring in Chapter XI. 53. Proceeding further to trace the various policy and legislative
 measures which had been adopted by the Union to uplift and upgrade
 the aviation sector, the Majority took note of the following
 developments: Examined in the light of the prefatory note - Statement of Objects
 and Reasons of Act 43 of 2003, the purpose of the Amendment is to
 provide statutory architecture for entrusting certain aspects of the
 operation and management of the Airports in order to improve the
 standard of services and facilities at the Airports to bring them on par
 with international standards i.e. BETTER MANAGEMENT OF
 THE AIRPORT as stated in Sec.12-A. 51. For such improvement, it was felt by Parliament that there was a
 need for the infusion of private sector investment in order to speed
 up Airport Infrastructure Development and also improve Managerial
 Efficiency. In obedience to the mandate of the Parliament, AAI made
 the 'GRANT' under the OMDA. Consequently, JVC invested huge
 amounts of money in designing and developing the Aeronautical
 Assets. Such money is in two components - Equity of JVC and
 Borrowed Capital from the Banks and other Financial Institutions. i) investment of money by the JVC is not one time affair,
 but it is a continuing process throughout the tenure of
 OMDA. ii) It is a commercial venture which the JVC undertook and
 necessarily the JVC is bound to make every effort to
 recover its investment over a period of time and also make
 some profit. Normally, any prudent businessman/organisation would
 seek to recover the investments made by collecting appropriate
 amounts from the users of the facility and the services offered
 by the businessman/ organisation. What would be the
 appropriate charges is a matter normally required to be
 determined by the businessman/organisation.‖ 54. While seeking to discern the true meaning liable to be accorded
 to ‗projected Revenue', it made the following pertinent observations: It is a permissible way of construing the contract as pointed by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 71 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Supreme Court in Khardah Company Ltd. Vs. Raymon & Co. (India)
 Pvt. Ltd. , (1963) SCR (3) 183: 55. Insofar as the interplay between OMDA and the SSA and the
 commercial principle which stood embodied therein was concerned, it
 held: 56. If all the cash received by collecting Aeronautical Charges fixed
 by AERA from the users of the Airport is to be treated as REVENUE
 to be shared with AAI (for the sake of convenience it may be called
 'Sharable Revenue' ) of JVC, without providing for the deduction of
 necessary amount to service the DEBT (amounts borrowed to create
 and upgrade from time to time the AERONAUTICAL ASSETS and
 the amount required to maintain and operate the AERONAUTICAL
 ASSETS -which JVC claims as CAPITAL COST). It would result in
 a situation where JVC would not be able to recover the costs relating
 to the AERONAUTICAL ASSETS from the AERONAUTICAL
 CHARGES collected from the users of those ASSETS.
 Consequently, in the failure of the efficient management of the
 Airport, the avowed object for which the 1994 Act was amended to
 enable the AAI to ASSIGN its functions to a private party and to the
 professed purpose of AAI in entering the OMDA. It must be
 remembered that all amounts borrowed are required to be paid with a
 contractually fixed interest. The obligation to repay the borrowed
 amounts with interest is a liability of JVC owed to third parties. The
 method and manner of repayment (the terms of repayment) are
 determined by contract at the time of borrowing. Treating all cash
 received by JVC without providing for the repayment of the DEBT Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 72 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 and interest thereon, as a SHARABLE REVENUE would only lead
 to a situation of impossibility of recovering the costs relating to the
 AERONAUTICAL ASSETS from the AERONAUTICAL
 CHARGES, thereby disabling JVC to service the debts secured by it
 for developing and operating the Airport. Such disability results in
 the destruction of a right expressly conferred under Article 12.1 on
 JVC to recover the costs relating to the ERONAUTICAL ASSETS
 by collecting AERONAUTICAL CHARGES. Ultimately resulting in
 the failure of the efficient administration and better management of
 the AIRPORT - one of the purpose sought to be achieved under Sec.12A(1) of Act 55 of 1994. The remedy suggested by AAI is that JVC should generate
 funds from NON AERONAUTICAL SERVICES to meet the
 shortfall in the COSTS RELATING TO AERONAUTICAL
 ASSETS. In our opinion such a course of action would be plainly
 inconsistent with the right of JVC under Art 12.1.1 of OMDA to
 recover the costs relating to the aeronautical assets by collecting
 aeronautical charges. The submission is therefore required to be
 rejected. 57. In our opinion, JVC would be perfectly justified in law by
 making such a financial Projection in the light of the right flowing in
 favour of the JVC under Article 12.1.1 of OMDA which declares that
 the purpose of collecting the AERONAUTICAL CHARGES is to
 recover the COSTS RELATING TO THE AERONAUTICAL
 ASSETS. There can only be two ways JVC could recover such costs (i) by passing on the legal liability to repay the borrowed capital
 along with the interest to the users of the Airport services or (ii) by
 excluding the amount representing such costs from the revenue
 sharable with AAI. Since JVC is expressly forbidden from passing
 on the liability to the users of the Airport Services, the only option
 left to JVC is to exclude the amount of COSTS RELATING TO
 AERONAUTICAL SERVICES from the revenue sharable with AAI - by appropriately working out the PROJECTED REVENUE in
 making the FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS while preparing the
 BUSINESS PLAN for each year.‖ 56. It consequently came to the following significant conclusions: 57. The Majority also found itself unable to concur with the opinion
 expressed in respect of Other Income. Dealing with this question, it
 held as under: Therefore, when JVC is depositing cash available with it in
 some Bank from time to time, JVC is only making an appropriate
 arrangement for safeguarding the amounts collected and lying with it
 but not carrying on any independent business. Such activity does not
 form part of the 'Airport Business' as defined. One of the component
 elements of the AIRPORT BUSINESS is to provide AIRPORT
 SERVICES defined under OMDA'
 'shall mean the services constituting Aeronautical Services
 and Non-Aeronautical Services.' 66. The contention of AAI is that JVC is able to generate 'other
 income' only as a consequence of the GRANT of exclusive right and
 authority by AAI to undertake Aeronautical and non-aeronautical
 services, therefore such 'other income' forms part of 'Revenue' and is
 sharable. 67. In our opinion, AAI's submission cannot be accepted. Because
 JVC has no obligation arising from the OMDA to carry on anyone of
 the activities leading to the earning of income/money under those
 various heads from which the 'other income' is derived. For the sake
 of argument,-if it is assumed- that if the JVC decides not to make
 any investment of the cash in its hands, either by making deposits in
 any bank or purchasing some shares or other securities, obviously no
 further income accrues from that cash lying idle in the hands of the
 JVC. AAI cannot either compel JVC to make such arrangement or
 terminate OMDA. Because such inaction on the part of JVC would
 not have any adverse legal consequences for JVC with reference to
 OMDA. It does not constitute an event of default on the part of JVC
 under Article 17.2 entitling AAI to terminate OMDA.‖ 58. Insofar as Upfront Fee is concerned, the Majority concurred with
 the view expressed by the Presiding Arbitrator. They also expressed
 agreement with the Presiding Arbitrator insofar as retirement
 compensation, power and electricity charges, payments towards water,
 sewerage and analogous utilities as well as property tax. 59. Concurrence was also expressed on the question of limitation as
 would be apparent from a reading of the following paragraphs forming
 part of the Majority Opinion: We respectfully agree for the following reasons: 60. On the basis of the aforesaid, the Majority framed the relief liable
 to be accorded in the following terms: However, We deem it appropriate that such amounts be given credit
 to while computing the Annual Fee payable by JVC in future.
 Whether the entire amount (liable to be refunded) is required to be
 given credit to in one or in three equal installments in three different
 financial years, is at the discretion of the AAI. 104. Similarly, the JVC is entitled for a declaration, the amounts
 falling under the Heads: JVC is also entitled for a declaration, the amounts falling
 under the above mentioned Heads from 21.06.2015 are liable to be
 excluded from the REVENUE and the amount of 45.99% thereof is
 liable to be refunded after duly ascertaining the quantum after
 appropriate enquiry by the Independent Auditor. The amounts so required to be refunded may be given credit
 to in one or three equal installments at the discretion of the AAI
 while determining the Annual Fee payable by JVC in future. The reliefs granted above are in addition to the reliefs granted
 by the learned Presiding Arbitrator, as mentioned in the DA.‖ 61. Since the view expressed by the Tribunal on aspects relating to
 DIAL which have been extracted hereinabove were expressed in terms
 similar or identical for MIAL, we for the sake of brevity do not deem it
 necessary to extract the findings for MIAL at this juncture.
 C. SUBMISSIONS 62. The learned Solicitor General as well as learned senior counsels
 who represented the respondents had, with their characteristic erudition,
 addressed elaborate submissions upon the various aspects pertaining to
 the challenge which stood raised and were addressed before this Court. 63. Apart from the above, respective sides had also placed on our
 record, detailed written submissions at different stages of the
 proceedings before this Court and as the hearings progressed. However,
 rather than reproducing them in their entirety and in order to lessen the
 burden on the body of this judgement, we have, independently
 consolidated and amalgamated those written submissions for the
 purposes of reference and consideration. Those submissions are being
 made part of the record in the following order: 64. We thus proceed to chronicle the principal submissions which
 were advanced by the learned Solicitor General appearing for AAI. v. AAI's submissions Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 79 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 65. The learned Solicitor, at the outset, drew our attention to a
 flowchart which had been presented by the respondents before this
 Court, as well as before the Tribunal, in order to explain and expand
 upon what according to them would constitute ‗Revenue' under the
 OMDA. That flowchart is reproduced hereinbelow: 66. The learned Solicitor submitted that the claim of DIAL and
 MIAL could be broadly classified under the following heads: 67. According to the learned Solicitor, while the Presiding Arbitrator
 had correctly concentrated its gaze upon the imperative need to discern
 the true meaning liable to be accorded to the word ‗Revenue' as
 defined, the Majority has proceeded on a basis which neither
 constituted the foundation of the dispute, the pleadings of parties, or the
 arguments which were addressed. According to the learned Solicitor,
 the Majority has, in view of the above and in essence, proceeded down
 a path which was never suggested by parties quite apart from the fact
 parties were never put to notice of the requirement of meeting such a
 case. 68. Mr. Mehta submitted that the Majority proceeded on the premise
 that the obligation to pay Annual Fee is an issue which is liable to be
 answered not with reference to the word ‗Revenue', but the concept of
 ‗projected Revenue' which is spoken of in Article 11.1.2.1 of the
 OMDA. According to the learned Solicitor, this line of inquiry finds
 expression for the first time in the Impugned Award, since the same
 never constituted the case of either of the parties before the Arbitral
 Tribunal. It was the submission of the learned Solicitor that the
 conclusion of the Majority is clearly irreconcilable with the definition
 of ‗Revenue' and which had specifically alluded to only five heads
 which could be deducted to arrive at ‗Revenue'. It was is in the
 aforesaid light that Mr. Mehta submitted that the Majority Opinion
 suffers from a patent illegality. 69. Before proceeding ahead, it would also be pertinent to take note
 of the contention of Mr. Mehta, who submitted that the Majority
 Opinion is rendered faulty, principally in light of the two learned
 Arbitrators having only partially reproduced Chapter XI of the OMDA. Mr. Mehta drew our attention to Para 24 of the Majority Opinion to
 highlight and underscore the fact that the Majority had chosen to extract
 only certain parts of Articles 11.1.1 and 11.1.2.1 of the OMDA.
 According to Mr. Mehta, the portions of Chapter XI which were crucial
 and of immense criticality, had thus been completely ignored and
 omitted from consideration. 70. Reverting then to the submissions which were addressed by Mr.
 Mehta in respect of the misdirected and undisclosed line of inquiry
 which was undertaken by the Majority, it was submitted that a
 completely novel line of reasoning came to be adopted by the learned
 Arbitrators constituting the Majority as would be manifest from a
 reading of Paras 46 and 47 of their opinion and which are extracted
 hereinbelow: 71. It was submitted that the entire basis of the Co-Arbitrators
 placing reliance upon ‗projected Revenue' and thus completely
 removing from consideration ‗Revenue' as defined was not even the
 case pleaded or urged by DIAL/MIAL. According to the learned
 Solicitor, both the respondents had consistently accepted that the
 definition of ‗Revenue' would be determinative in order to answer the
 issue of liability towards Annual Fee payments. It was submitted that
 the respondents had merely sought the introduction of further
 exclusions from that definition and thus essentially sought additional
 deductions being factored in for the purposes of computation of Annual
 Fee. 72. According to Mr. Mehta, the procedure as adopted by the Co-
 Arbitrators is clearly violative of Section 34(2)(a)(iii) of the Act as was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 84 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 explained by the Supreme Court in Ssangyong Engineering &
 Construction Co. Ltd. vs. NHAI18 in the following terms: In order to ensure that the parties can exercise their right to
 comment effectively, the Arbitral Tribunal must grant
 them access to the evidence and arguments submitted by the
 other side. Affording a party the opportunity to make
 submissions or to give its view without also informing it of
 the opposing side's claims and arguments typically
 constitutes a violation of due process, unless specific non-
 disclosure rules apply (e.g. such disclosure would constitute
 a violation of trade secrets or applicable legal privileges).
 In practice, national courts have afforded Arbitral Tribunals
 considerable leeway in setting and adjusting the
 procedures by which parties respond to one another's
 submissions and evidence, reasoning that there were
 ―several ways of conducting arbitral proceedings‖. (2019) 15 SCC 131 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 85 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Accordingly, absent any specific agreement by the parties,
 the Arbitral Tribunal has wide discretion in arranging the
 parties' right to comment, permitting or excluding the
 introduction of new claims, and determining which party
 may have the final word. (b) Right to Comment on Evidence Known to or
 Determined by the Tribunal
 The parties' right to comment also extends to facts that have
 not been introduced in the proceedings by the parties, but
 that the tribunal has raised sua sponte, provided it was
 entitled to do so. For instance, if the tribunal gained ―out of
 court knowledge‖ of circumstances (e.g. through its own
 investigations), it may only rest its decision on those
 circumstances if it informed both parties in advance and
 afforded them the opportunity to comment thereon. The
 same rule applies to cases where an arbitrator intends to
 base the award on his or her own expert knowledge, unless
 the arbitrator was appointed for his or her special expertise
 or knowledge (e.g. in quality arbitration). Similarly, a
 tribunal must give the parties an opportunity to comment
 on facts of common knowledge if it intends to base its
 decision on those facts, unless the parties should have
 known that those facts could be decisive for the final
 award.‖
 (emphasis in original)

 xxxx xxxx xxxx 56. Similarly, in Redfern and Hunter (supra): Similarly, in Kanoria v. Guinness [Kanoria v. Guinness,
 2006 EWCA Civ 222] , the English Court of Appeal
 decided that the respondent had not been afforded the
 chance to present its case when critical legal arguments
 were made by the claimant at the hearing, which the
 respondent could not attend due to a serious illness. In the
 circumstances, the court decided that ‗this is an extreme
 case of potential injustice' and resolved not to enforce the
 arbitral award. 11.74. Examples of unsuccessful ‗due process' defences to
 enforcement are, however, more numerous. In Minmetals
 Germany GmbH v. Ferco Steel Ltd. [Minmetals Germany
 GmbH v. Ferco Steel Ltd., 1999 CLC 647 (QB)] , the losing
 respondent in an arbitration in China opposed enforcement
 in England on the grounds that the award was founded on
 evidence that the Arbitral Tribunal had obtained through its
 own investigation. An English court rejected this defence on
 the basis that the respondent was eventually given an
 opportunity to ask for the disclosure of evidence at issue
 and comment on it, but declined to do so. The court held
 that the due process defence to enforcement was not
 intended to accommodate circumstances in which a party
 had failed to take advantage of an opportunity duly
 accorded to it.‖‖ 73. Apart from the above, according to the learned Solicitor, the
 opinion of the Co-Arbitrators also violates Section 34(2)(a)(iv) since
 their opinion would constitute decisions rendered on matters beyond the
 scope of arbitration itself. It was submitted that the Majority not only
 failed to decide the principal dispute which was the interpretation of
 ‗Revenue' as defined in the OMDA, it also proceeded to frame reliefs
 based on an interpretative exercise of the contract which had not even
 found mention in the notice of arbitration, pleadings or submissions of
 the claimants. 74. Mr. Mehta further submitted that the Co-Arbitrators, while
 holding that the definition of ‗Revenue' was irrelevant, have essentially
 embarked upon an expedition which can only be described to be a
 rewriting of the contract itself as well as amounting to ignoring the
 relevant contractual provisions. It was submitted that the revenue
 sharing formula was a fundamental term of the contract itself and owed
 its genesis to the financial bids submitted by parties and which were in
 the bidding exercise ranked on the basis of the percentage of revenue
 share being offered by the tenderer. Mr. Mehta submitted that in terms
 of the tender documents, the bid was to be awarded to that bidder which
 had offered the highest percentage of revenue-share. According to the
 learned Solicitor, the Award fails to accord due consideration upon
 these aspects and is thus liable to be set aside on this ground alone. 75. The learned Solicitor then submitted that if the opinion of the
 Co-Arbitrators were accepted to be correct and DIAL/MIAL
 consequently being recognized as obligated to pay on the basis of
 ‗projected Revenue' alone, the ‗actual Revenue' that may be generated
 would become wholly irrelevant since the payment of Annual Fee
 would thus be dependent on whatever figure that DIAL/MIAL chose to
 declare as ‗projected Revenue' in their respective Business Plans. 76. According to Mr. Mehta, these findings of the Co-Arbitrators
 have resulted in and have the potentiality of rendering the
 reconciliatory mechanism comprised in Articles 11.1.2.3 and 11.1.2.4
 wholly otiose and as having been struck off from the OMDA itself. It
 was in the aforesaid light that the learned Solicitor submitted that the
 interpretation of the contractual stipulations by the Majority is one
 which no fair minded or reasonable person could have arrived at quite Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 88 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 apart from being contrary to the explicit and unambiguous provisions of
 the contract itself. 77. Mr. Mehta in this connection drew our attention to the following
 pertinent observations as were rendered by the Supreme Court in
 Ssangyong Engineering and which are extracted hereinbelow: 78. Proceeding further to the heart of the dispute and construction of
 Chapter XI of OMDA, Mr. Mehta submitted that the term ‗Revenue'
 had been specifically defined in the OMDA to subserve the principal
 purpose of computation of Annual Fee. According to the learned
 Solicitor, if the aforesaid clause of OMDA were to be held to be
 irrelevant, it would inevitably result in the term being excluded from
 the contract. According to Mr. Mehta, the view taken by the Co-
 Arbitrators essentially renders the specific contractual definition
 adopted by parties redundant and thus amounts to a rewriting of
 Chapter XI itself. 79. According to the learned Solicitor, on a true and correct
 construction of the contract, the following position would emerge. It
 was firstly submitted that the term ‗Revenue' as defined in Chapter I,
 indisputably finds place in Chapter XI of the OMDA. Its definition in Article 1.1 must thus be understood as being intended by parties to
 guide and regulate all Articles falling in Chapter XI. It was then
 submitted that since the definition is couched in clear and unambiguous
 terms, it must be accorded a meaning which is apparent and plainly
 evident. The learned Solicitor submitted that the first part of the
 definition lays emphasis on ‗all pre-tax gross revenue' being taken into
 consideration for the purposes of sharing revenue. According to the
 learned Solicitor, the Presiding Arbitrator had thus correctly come to
 hold that since each of those expressions have a clear and well-
 understood literal meaning, it is that which must be applied and given
 full effect. 80. It was then submitted that Article 1.1 specifies five expressly
 identified exclusions under the definition of ‗Revenue'. It was in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 90 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 aforesaid backdrop that learned Solicitor submitted that if it were
 intended by parties that elements other than those five were liable to be
 deducted from the figure of ‗all pre-tax gross revenue', those would
 have been clearly and specifically enumerated in the definition of
 ‗Revenue' itself alongside the five other specified exclusions. 81. Mr. Mehta also assailed the correctness of the contention which
 was addressed in these proceedings on behalf of DIAL/MIAL that the
 deduction of other income and capital costs from ‗all pre-tax gross
 revenue' does not amount to adding words to the definition but is
 essentially warranted in order to give effect to the term ―pre-tax‖. This,
 according to Mr. Mehta, was correctly answered by the Presiding
 Arbitrator against the claimants while basing its opinion on reputed law
 lexicons and which had explained the expressions ‗before tax' or ‗pre-
 tax' as being before assessment or deduction of taxes. In view of the
 above, it was his submission that ‗pre-tax' had no bearing on the
 question of deductions which were sought to be introduced into the
 definition of ‗Revenue' by DIAL/MIAL. 82. Mr. Mehta then assailed the view taken by the Majority insofar as
 it sought to draw sustenance and buttress its conclusions on the basis of
 the principle of business efficacy. It was his submission that the
 aforesaid view as taken by the Co-Arbitrators proceeds in ignorance of
 the well-settled principle that where terms of a contract are clear, no
 implied stipulations are liable to be read into the same. According to the
 learned Solicitor, the business efficacy rule is resorted to only in
 situations where the contractual stipulations suffer from ambiguity.
 According to Mr. Mehta, in light of the plain and clear language in
 which the term ‗Revenue' stood defined, there was no occasion or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 91 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 justification for the principles of business efficacy or avoidance of
 commercial absurdity being imported. 83. The learned Solicitor then contended that the provisions of the
 SSA would have no application on the construction liable to be
 accorded to ‗Revenue' as contemplated under the OMDA. The learned
 Solicitor submitted that the approach as suggested by DIAL/MIAL was
 even otherwise fundamentally flawed when one bears the following in
 consideration. It was submitted that Article 12.1.1 of the OMDA is
 concerned with the tariff which would apply to Aeronautical Charges
 for the provision of Aeronautical Services and which in turn is
 recoverable from airport users. According to Mr. Mehta, there is no
 linkage between Annual Fee and Tariff fixation under Chapter XII of
 the OMDA. In view of the aforesaid, it was his submission that the
 conclusions rendered by the Majority are thus rendered wholly
 unsustainable insofar as it proceeds to import the commercial principle
 embodied in Schedule 1 of the SSA. 84. It was then submitted that tariff fixation under the SSA is
 undertaken by Airport Economic Regulatory Authority19 and which
 is the statutory authority enjoined to determine the charges to be levied
 for the provision of Aeronautical Services and the recovery of costs
 relating to Aeronautical Assets. According to the learned Solicitor, all of
 the above when taken into consideration would lead one to the
 irresistible conclusion that the provisions of the SSA cannot possibly be
 read so as to influence the meaning to be assigned to the expression
 ‗Revenue' or govern and regulate the subject of Annual Fee. AERA Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 92 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 85. Mr. Mehta submitted that the Majority Award in essence ignores
 the underlying commercial package on which the OMDA stood
 constructed and rewrites its provisions so as to make it a ―zero risk
 contract‖. This, according to the learned Solicitor, proceeds on the
 premise that if DIAL/MIAL were required to pay Annual Fee on the
 full amount of ‗Revenue' generated, it would be unable to recover the
 costs relating to the creation of Aeronautical Assets. It was in this
 respect submitted that the levy of Aeronautical Charges is a subject
 which is exclusively governed by the SSA and the factors enumerated
 therein being wholly irrelevant for the purposes of the OMDA. 86. It was submitted that undisputedly charges for Non- Aeronautical
 Services under the OMDA were left totally unregulated and thus
 freeing DIAL/MIAL to levy such charges as they deemed appropriate.
 According to Mr. Mehta, the aforesaid right is liable to be viewed in the
 context of the indisputable fact that under the OMDA, DIAL/MIAL had
 been handed a virtual monopoly over an essential public utility.
 According to Mr. Mehta, right from the pre-bid stage of the
 privatization process, it was clearly contemplated and conceived that
 Non-Aeronautical Revenue would constitute a significant portion of the
 overall earnings of the JVC. 87. Mr. Mehta also drew our attention to the evidence tendered by
 Mr. G. Radha Krishna Babu and who had deposed that DIAL on a
 conservative estimate would stand enabled to generate at least INR 1.56
 lakh crores over the period of the Grant from Non-Aeronautical
 Revenue alone. However, according to Mr. Mehta, this aspect has been
 cursorily rejected and its relevance completely ignored by the Co-
 Arbitrators and thus this significant stream of revenue removed from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 93 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 consideration altogether. It was submitted that the rationale underlying
 the Majority Award would result in absurd commercial consequences
 and if upheld, it would result in the respondents being handed over a
 public contract with ―zero risk‖. 88. The learning Solicitor also assailed the view expressed in the
 Majority Award with respect to ―Other Income‖. It was submitted that
 ―Other Income‖ was a phraseology adopted by DIAL/MIAL to denote
 income arising from any source other than Aeronautical and Non-
 Aeronautical Services. It was, at the outset, submitted that the term
 ―Other Income‖ finds no place in the OMDA nor is its exclusion
 contemplated from ―all pre-tax gross revenue‖ as appearing in the
 definition of ‗Revenue' in the OMDA. Taking us through the Majority
 Award, the learned Solicitor submitted that it is apparent that the
 opinion of the Co-Arbitrators flows from its central finding that the
 definition of ‗Revenue' is irrelevant, and consequently Other Income
 could not have formed part of ‗projected Revenue'. The learned
 Solicitor pointed out the Presiding Arbitrator had, to the contrary,
 correctly rejected this argument bearing in mind the plain language in
 which the ‗Revenue' stood couched in the OMDA. Mr. Mehta
 submitted that regard must necessarily be had to the fact that but for the
 Grant of Function under the OMDA, DIAL/MIAL would have been in
 no position to generate Other Income. 89. Mr. Mehta then submitted that the aforesaid view, as taken by the
 Co-Arbitrators, is clearly not a conclusion which a fair minded or
 reasonable person could have possibly arrived at on a correct
 construction of OMDA. In any case, according to the learned Solicitor,
 the OMDA while defining ‗Revenue' clearly did not aim or intend to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 94 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 exclude revenue that may be generated from an activity which
 DIAL/MIAL were unobligated to undertake. 90. The learned Solicitor laid stress upon the large revenue which
 DIAL/MIAL stood positioned to generate and earn from various
 development operations undertaken upon the land which stood leased to
 it. This aspect was sought to be further highlighted with reference to the
 revenue generated by DIAL from Aerocity. It was submitted that every
 penny generated from such activities was directly connected with the
 Grant under the OMDA and consequently, the view of the Co-
 Arbitrators that sharing of the same would be expropriatory is clearly
 absurd and illegal. 91. The learned Solicitor then drew our attention to the judgments of
 the Supreme Court in AUSPI-I and AUSPI-II to underline those
 decisions having found that entities who had been granted a telecom
 licence would be obligated to share revenue earned from all activities,
 including those which were in no manner connected with such license
 and consequently, revenue generated from any activity which had a
 nexus with the Grant under the OMDA would necessarily have to be
 shared. 92. The learned Solicitor then proceeded to vehemently assail the
 direction comprised in the Impugned Award and which had, according
 to AAI, delegated an essential adjudicatory function to the Independent
 Auditor. It was submitted in this regard that in the Procedural Order
 dated 29 June 2019, the Tribunal had taken note of the submission
 addressed on behalf of the AAI for the hearing being split into two
 parts: the first being the determination of liability (if any), and the
 second relating to quantum. DIAL, at that stage, Mr. Mehta pointed out, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 95 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 had countered that suggestion, asserting that the matter could be
 referred to a mutually acceptable Independent Auditor for
 determination of the figures in dispute. Our attention was also drawn to
 the Procedural Order dated 13 October 2019, and in which the Tribunal
 had recorded that since parties had been unable to reach a consensus, it
 would proceed further by permitting both sides to adduce evidence and
 decide the matter thereafter. 93. According to Mr. Mehta, even at this stage, all that parties had
 contemplated was that an expert would ultimately be appointed by
 consensus to submit a report to the Tribunal with respect to
 quantification of alleged excess Annual Fee. It was submitted that at no
 stage had parties agreed to a wholesale delegation of this adjudicatory
 exercise to a third party by the Tribunal. It was submitted by Mr. Mehta
 that a serious dispute with respect to quantification stood raised before
 the Tribunal. It was argued that those aspects have been completely
 overlooked by the Co-Arbitrators and the Award has thus delegated an
 essential judicial function to the Independent Auditor. 94. It was submitted that the direction for quantification being
 undertaken by the Independent Auditor glosses over the objection taken
 by AAI on the admissibility of evidence which was sought to be
 introduced on behalf of DIAL/MIAL. According to Mr. Mehta, the
 aforesaid delegation can by no strength of imagination be termed as
 purely computational or the discharge of a ministerial function as was
 contended by DIAL/MIAL. 95. It was further vehemently urged that DIAL/MIAL had led no
 evidence with respect to quantum of borrowed capital proportionate to
 each year along with the interest paid thereon. The learned Solicitor Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 96 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 submitted that DIAL/MIAL had also not laid any evidence indicative of
 the expenditure from equity towards ‗costs relating to aeronautical
 assets'. All evidence in this respect, according to Mr. Mehta, would be
 laid for the first time before the Independent Auditor. 96. In view of the aforesaid, it was submitted that a core judicial
 function which was liable to be undertaken by the Tribunal has been
 impermissibly delegated in contravention of the fundamental policy of
 Indian law. 97. On an overall conspectus of the aforesaid, the learned Solicitor
 submitted that this was a fit case where the Court must invoke its
 powers conferred under Section 34 and set aside the impugned Awards. vi. DIAL/MIAL's submissions 98. Mr. Sibal, Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Sethi, learned senior counsels
 addressed submissions on behalf of DIAL/MIAL. Both the respondents
 took us back to the adoption of the open air policy and the principled
 decision taken by the Union Government to adopt pragmatic measures
 so as to aid in the development, modernization as well as restructuring
 of airports. It was this policy decision which formed the bedrock for the
 introduction of Section 12-A in the AAI Act by way of the 2003
 Amendment Act. Learned senior counsels drew our attention to the
 legislative objectives underlying the said amendment as well as the
 Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2003 Amendment Act and
 which embodied the avowed objective of the Union Government to
 encourage private sector participation insofar as airports and the
 aviation sector was concerned as a whole. It was in furtherance of those
 legislative initiatives, learned senior counsels explained, that AAI had Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 97 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 invited proposals for the privatization of the Delhi and Mumbai
 airports. 99. Our attention was then drawn to the provisions of the OMDA and
 more particularly to Article 2.1.2 in terms of which DIAL came to be
 granted the exclusive right to develop, finance, design, construct,
 modernize, operate, maintain, use and regulate IGIA, provide
 Aeronautical and Non-Aeronautical Services and determine demand,
 collect and retain charges from users of the airport facilities. Article
 2.1.2 of the OMDA reads as follows: It was further submitted that the execution of the SSA, which was also
 a part of the ‗Request for Proposal' circulated in the course of the
 bidding process, was an essential component of the entire contract and
 designed to subserve the principal objective of the airports being
 modernized. 101. According to the respondents, these aspects would become
 apparent from a reading of the communication dated 30 May 2011 of
 the Ministry of Civil Aviation in the Union Government and addressed
 to AERA. The said communication is extracted hereinbelow: 2. In the above backdrop, the issue regarding status of the
 transaction documents for restructuring and modernization of Delhi
 and Mumbai airports has been examined in this Ministry in
 consultation with Law Ministry and it has been observed that: Hence, without OMDA there is no utility of other agreements.
 Further, in all other agreements cross referencing has been
 done to the provisions of OMDA for interpretation of the
 provisions of other transaction documents. Also, the definition
 of the Project Agreements has only been inserted in Clause 1.1
 of OMDA and this includes all other Transaction Documents. 3. Further, this Ministry had sought the legal advice from the
 Ministry of Law & Justice on the issue. Ministry of Law & Justice
 has, inter-alia has opined as under: Hence, AERA being an instrumentality of the State cannot
 unilaterally ignore the said binding agreements on the
 ground that they have been formally signed by the AAI. In
 view of the above, it may be advisable to consider and not
 to ignore these binding principal documents executed for
 the purpose of restructuring of the Airports at Delhi and
 Mumbai. 4. In view of above, it has been observed thar all the
 Transaction Documents i.e. OMDA, SSA, SGSA, Lease Deed, SHA,
 CNS/ATM Agreement entered between the concerned
 Government/Organizations and the JVCs for restructuring and
 modernization of Delhi and Mumbai airports have been approved by
 the Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) i.e. the Central
 Government and cannot be considered in isolation just because they
 have been formally signed by Airports Authority of India or any
 other organization. Thus, the concession offered by OMDA and any
 of the other Agreements listed under Clause 1.1 of OMDA, need to
 be considered as the ‗concession offered' by the Central Government
 in terms of Section 13(1)(a)(vi) of the AERA Act, 2008. 5. This issues with the approval of Minister for Civil Aviation. Yours faithfully,
 (Oma Nand)
 Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
 Tel.: 34640214‖ 102. Learned senior counsels appearing for the respondents thus
 submitted that the aforesaid communication aptly captures the
 fundamental understanding of parties and the interlinkage between the
 OMDA and the SSA. It was then submitted that the ‗costs relating to
 Aeronautical Assets' would comprise of depreciation (i.e. return of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 101 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 capital, both borrowed and equity), interest on debt and return on
 equity. These capital costs, it was contended, are to be recovered from
 Aeronautical Charges that DIAL/MIAL may levy in accordance with
 the OMDA. 103. It was emphasized that in terms of Article 12.1.2, Aeronautical
 Charges are liable to be determined in accordance with the SSA and
 specifically Clause 2 to Schedule 1 which spells out the commercial
 principle. According to the respondents, the commercial principle in
 unambiguous terms spoke of the chosen operator being enabled to
 generate sufficient revenue so as to not only obtain a return of capital
 over the economic life of the asset as also to achieve a reasonable return
 on that investment commensurate with the risk involved. It was on the
 aforesaid basis that the respondents submitted that a return of capital
 coupled with a reasonable return on investment were factors which
 were thus acknowledged to be of critical importance and imperative to
 sustain the viability of the modernization process. Our attention was
 also invited to the formula which the SSA adopted for the purposes of
 determining Target Revenue and which too takes into account
 depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity. It was in the
 aforesaid backdrop that learned senior counsels submitted that these
 capital costs are clearly recoverable by DIAL/MIAL. 104. Both DIAL and MIAL then urged that in order to understand the
 meaning of ‗projected Revenue' it is imperative to bear in mind the
 meaning which OMDA assigns to Business Plan, Airport Business and
 Airport Services, expressions which have been noticed by us in the
 preceding part of this decision. The process of exclusions from ‗gross
 revenue' was sought to be explained with the aid of a flowchart which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 102 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 has already been extracted hereinabove. It was with the aid of the
 aforesaid flow chart that learned senior counsels submitted that
 ‗shareable revenue' is liable to be computed in light of the above and
 Annual Fee calculated accordingly. 105. It was submitted that both DIAL as well as MIAL had in the past
 mistakenly made payments of Annual Fee on the basis of the gross
 receipts credited to their individual Profit & Loss accounts as opposed
 to ‗projected Revenue' as disclosed in their Business Plans. This,
 according to the respondents, led to payments being made in excess of
 their contractual liability and thus entitled them to seek the return of
 such excess payments. 106. Learned senior counsels submitted that both the Minority and
 Majority Opinions have concurrently held in favour of the respondents
 insofar as excess payments having been made under a mistaken belief.
 This, according to DIAL/MIAL, becomes apparent from a reading of
 the opinion of the Presiding Arbitrator and its findings in respect of
 payments made for electricity charges, charges, water and analogous
 utilities, property tax, as well as sale proceeds of capital assets. 107. In order to buttress the aforesaid submission, learned senior
 counsels drew our attention to the following passage as appearing in the
 opinion of the Minority: 108. This aspect was sought to be further underscored with learned
 senior counsels referring us to the conclusions which the Presiding
 Arbitrator rendered in the context of ‗Revenue' generated from the sale
 of capital assets. It was highlighted that the contention of AAI that the
 expression ―any amount that accrues to‖ used in the context of sale of
 capital assets would be confined to the profit on sale alone came to be
 stoutly rejected by the Presiding Arbitrator as would be manifest from a
 reading of Para 211 of the Minority Opinion: 109. It was submitted that the contentions advanced on behalf of AAI
 proceeds in ignorance of the legal relationship which came into
 existence and the evident interconnection and interdependence between
 the various agreements which were compendiously defined as Project
 Agreements under the OMDA. It was submitted that while
 DIAL/MIAL were conferred with some discretion with respect to Non-
 Aeronautical Services, they were statutorily obliged to provide
 Aeronautical and Essential Services, and this consequentially placing
 them under a binding obligation to create Aeronautical Assets. This,
 according to the respondents, clearly entailed huge investments being
 made for designing and developing Aeronautical Assets, through equity
 and borrowed capital. It was submitted that ‗costs relating to
 Aeronautical Assets' which the respondents were statutorily enabled to
 recover would not only include costs relating to the creation of those
 assets but also all expenditure incurred in the course of operation and
 maintenance of those assets. 110. Learned senior counsels thus contended that if the entire cash
 receipts of DIAL/MIAL were to be treated as ‗shareable revenue',
 without appropriate deductions being made for the purposes of
 servicing the above noted objectives, it would result in the destruction
 of the substantive right of the operator to recover ‗costs relating to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 105 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Aeronautical Assets'. It was submitted that these arguments, which
 were addressed in the context of the various provisions of the OMDA,
 and more particularly Article 12.1.1, were clearly lost sight of by the
 Presiding Arbitrator. This, according to learned senior counsels,
 becomes apparent from a reading of Paras 109 to 113 of the Minority
 Opinion: sharing arrangement agreed between AAI and DIAL under the
 OMDA. The relied-upon provisions of SSA merely ensures that
 while determining/approving the tariff (i.e., the charges to be levied
 at the Airport by DIAL for providing Aeronautical Services and
 consequent recovery of costs relating to Aeronautical Assets,
 referred to as Aeronautical Charges), AERA will adopt a price cap
 methodology that would ensure generation of sufficient revenue by
 DIAL to cover not only efficient operating cost but also ensure that
 DIAL obtains the return of capital over its economic life
 (depreciation) and achieves a reasonable return on investment
 commensurate with the risk involved (i.e., interest on debt and return
 on equity). 111. Therefore, the scheme of OMDA and the project agreements is: 112. The following illustration will demonstrate that the
 methodology for fixing the tariff has no bearing or connection to the
 methodology of calculating payment of "Annual fee" payable to
 AAI and the principles relating to fixing tariff cannot be brought into
 or adopted for calculating the "Annual fee": On running the Hotel for some years, B finds that if 40% of
 the gross revenue is paid towards A's share in the Firm, the
 remaining 60% of gross revenue was not yielding a profit
 commensurate to his investment, after meeting the operating
 expenses. Can B contend that as the room tariff and food tariff was
 fixed by taking note of the total investment (capital cost)
 and the operating cost, payment of 40% of the gross
 revenue/total receipts to be paid to A should be after
 deducting the capital costs? The answer is obviously no, as the components and
 principles for fixing the room tariff and food and beverage
 tariff haves nothing to do with the sharing of profits and
 losses by A and B. Capital costs and operating costs are
 relevant to tariff fixation. Sharing of profits depends upon
 the ratio of investment or value of services rendered by each
 partner.‖

 The principles of tariff fixation in the SSA relate to the quantum of
 tariff. The recovery of capital costs or return of capital costs are
 taken care by the tariff fixation. If there is any error in tariff fixation,
 the remedy is to challenge the tariff fixation before TDSAT. Any
 problem in tariff fixation cannot be solved by reimagining the
 meaning of "Revenue" in the OMDA. The provision in the OMDA
 for payment of annual fee on the basis of definition of "Revenue"
 relates to sharing of profits by AAI and DIAL who have entered into
 a joint venture. Any attempt to bring in the principles of tariff
 fixation in to reworking the agreed profit-sharing ratio will be
 illogical and impermissible. The problems of DIAL arise due to its
 agreement to pay 45.99% of total "Revenue" and not because of any
 mistake in understanding and giving effect to what was agreed to be
 "Revenue". If DIAL had agreed to pay, say only 30% of "Revenue",
 it may not have the problem of inadequacy of funds. But no tribunal
 or court can re-write a solemn contract with clear terms and
 conditions, on the ground of hardship to one party, or on grounds of
 equity or fairness, or by importing the principles of tariff fixation
 into calculation of sharing of profits or income. 113. The lack of any basis, reason or logic in importing the
 principles of tariff fixation in calculating the Annual Fee will also be
 evident by taking the interpretation suggested by DIAL to its logical
 conclusion. If the contention of DIAL that in calculating the "pre-tax
 gross revenue", the Capital Costs (depreciation, interest on debt and
 return on equity) are to be deducted in view of Principle No.2 of
 tariff fixation in Schedule I of the SSA, is logical and correct, then
 the operating costs should also be deducted. This is because,
 Principle No.2 of Tariff fixation in the SSA states that AERA will,
 while settling the price gap, have regard to the need for the JVC to
 generate sufficient revenue to cover "efficient operating costs" and
 obtain the return of capital over the economic life and achieve a
 reasonable return on investment commensurate with the risk
 involved. If the contention of DIAL that having regard to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 108 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 commercial Principle No.2 (in Schedule I of SSA), the Capital Costs
 (depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity) are to be
 deducted from the total Aeronautical Charge receipts, to arrive at
 "pre-tax gross revenue", by the same logic, the operating costs also
 will have to be deducted as commercial Principle No.2 refers to it
 also. If these are deducted, what is "pre-tax gross revenue" will
 become "pre-tax net income" which is not what is provided or
 intended in the definition of "Revenue".‖ 111. Both DIAL and MIAL then sought to highlight the interplay
 between Business Plans and ‗financial projections' which is a term used
 while defining the former. It was thus contended that while framing
 ‗financial projections' and drawing up the Business Plan, the
 respondents were entitled to make appropriate deductions in respect of
 ‗costs relating to Aeronautical Assets' while computing ‗projected
 Revenue'. It was submitted that if the contention of AAI were to be
 accepted, Annual Fee would have been defined to mean 45.99%
 (DIAL) and 38.7% (MIAL) of ―Revenue‖ as opposed to ‗projected
 Revenue' as the OMDA chose to explain in Chapter XI. 112. The respondents also commended affirmation of the view which
 the Co-Arbitrators took with reference to Other Income. It was
 submitted that since DIAL/MIAL were in no manner obligated to share
 the income generated with reference to the deployment of funds and
 which had no correlation with Airport Business, the Co-Arbitrators
 correctly came to hold in their favour on this aspect. Learned senior
 counsels further submitted that the view of the Majority that the
 decisions of the Supreme Court in AUSPI-I and AUSPI-II were clearly
 distinguishable was correct and clearly merits no interference. This
 since the definition of ‗gross revenue' which formed the subject matter
 of consideration of the Supreme Court was couched in language clearly
 distinct and distinguishable from ‗Revenue' as defined in the OMDA. 113. Learned senior counsels thus submitted that once the Arbitrators
 had in unison come to uphold their claims with respect to electricity
 charges, water and sewerage disposal facilities along with other
 analogous utilities, property tax, sale of capital assets, granted
 consequential monetary reliefs in respect thereof and all of which
 fundamentally rested on excess payments having been made under a
 mistake, the challenge as raised by AAI is liable to be negated. 114. Mr. Sibal, Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Sethi submitted that AAI's
 challenge essentially requires the Court to evaluate the validity of the
 Impugned Award as if these were proceedings akin to a regular appeal.
 According to learned senior counsels, the challenge as mounted clearly
 fails to bear in consideration the contours of the Section 34 power and
 which stands duly enunciated in the following decisions. 115. Our attention in this respect was firstly drawn to Paras 24 and 25
 in Dyna Technologies vs. Crompton Greaves Limited20 : 116. Reliance was then placed on the following observations as
 appearing in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited vs. Dewan Chandram
 Saran21 : The appellant could not be faulted for deducting the service tax from
 the bills of the respondent under Clause 9.3, and there was no reason
 for the High Court to interfere in the view taken by the arbitrator
 which was based, in any case on a possible interpretation of Clause
 9.3. The learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench clearly
 erred in interfering with the award rendered by the arbitrator. Both
 those judgments will, therefore, have to be set aside.‖ 117. Learned senior counsels also placed reliance on the following
 pertinent observations as appearing in UHL Power Company Limited
 vs. State Of Himachal Pradesh22 : Vedanta Ltd. [MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. , (2019) 4 SCC 163 : settled by now that the Court does not sit in appeal over the
 arbitral award and may interfere on merits on the limited
 ground provided under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) i.e. if the award
 is against the public policy of India. As per the legal
 position clarified through decisions of this Court prior to the
 amendments to the 1996 Act in 2015, a violation of Indian
 public policy, in turn, includes a violation of the
 fundamental policy of Indian law, a violation of the interest
 of India, conflict with justice or morality, and the existence
 of patent illegality in the arbitral award. Additionally, the 22 (2022) 4 SCC 116 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 112 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 concept of the ―fundamental policy of Indian law‖ would
 cover compliance with statutes and judicial precedents,
 adopting a judicial approach, compliance with the principles
 of natural justice, and Wednesbury [Associated Provincial
 Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn., (1948) 1 KB
 223 (CA)] reasonableness. Furthermore, ―patent illegality‖
 itself has been held to mean contravention of the substantive
 law of India, contravention of the 1996 Act, and
 contravention of the terms of the contract.‖‖

 It was on the aforesaid basis that it was contended that a petition under
 Section 34 cannot be converted into a challenge pertaining to the merits
 of the Impugned Award. 118. Learned senior counsels then vehemently assailed the correctness
 of the submission addressed on behalf of AAI and which had asserted
 that the Co-Arbitrators had travelled beyond the scope of the reference.
 Learned senior counsels submitted that the interpretation of ‗Revenue'
 for the purpose of calculating Annual Fee constituted the core of the
 dispute between the parties. It was, according to learned senior
 counsels, thus imperative for the Tribunal to identify the constituents of
 ‗shareable revenue'. It was pointed out that it had been the consistent
 case of the respondents that computation of Annual Fee revolves
 around the contractual obligation of the respondents to provide
 shareable revenue. In order to identify the streams of income which
 would form part of shareable revenue, it was imperative for the
 Tribunal to examine this aspect bearing in mind the concepts of
 ‗projected Revenue' and Business Plan which stood incorporated in the
 OMDA. 119. It was submitted that the heart of the dispute is evident not only
 from a reading of the reliefs as claimed and set out in the SoC but also
 from the Written Submissions which were tendered before the Tribunal. By way of an exemplar, learned senior counsels drew our attention to
 Para 78(a) of the SoC of DIAL as well as Para 7 of its Written
 Submissions both of which are extracted hereinbelow: 120. It was contended that both the Presiding Arbitrator as well as the
 Majority had correctly understood the aforesaid constituting the
 principal issue of contestation and thus it would be wholly incorrect for
 AAI to contend that the Tribunal had travelled beyond the scope of the
 disputes which had been submitted. 121. In order to buttress the aforesaid submissions, the respondents
 also sought to draw sustenance from the following passage from
 Russell on Arbitration23: 122. Reliance in this respect was also placed upon Para 69 in
 Ssangyong Engineering and which had spoken of matters though not
 strictly in issue but connected with the principal question as being
 within the scope of submission to arbitration. The relevant passage
 from Ssangyong Engineering is reproduced hereinbelow: 123. Dr. Singhvi, Mr. Sethi, as well as Mr. Sibal also questioned the
 correctness of AAI's submission when it had urged that the opinion of
 the Majority had effectively deleted Articles 11.1.2.2, 11.1.2.3 and
 11.1.2.4 of OMDA from consideration. It was in this respect submitted
 that the aforesaid submission is clearly misleading since those
 provisions were duly taken note of in order to answer what would
 constitute elements of shareable revenue. Proceeding further and
 controverting the submissions advanced by AAI with respect to the
 correctness of the Majority opinion on the interpretation liable to be
 accorded to the expression ‗Revenue', it was at the outset submitted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 116 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 that the Majority had ultimately rested its decision on a plausible
 interpretation of the contractual terms. It was thus submitted that the
 said opinion cannot possibly be termed as being patently flawed and all
 that AAI suggests is for this Court to accept an alternative interpretation
 of the contractual terms. 124. According to learned senior counsels, once the Arbitrators had
 accepted that both parties appeared to have proceeded on a
 misconception with respect to the true meaning to be assigned to the
 expression ‗Revenue', it was imperative upon the Arbitral Tribunal to
 examine and directly engage with the aspect of shareable revenue.
 While doing so, according to learned senior counsels, it was clearly
 within the jurisdiction of the Co-Arbitrators to examine the contractual
 terms based on the precept of business efficacy. In fact, and it was so
 contended that the decision in Moorcock24 which had been noticed by
 the Presiding Arbitrator would itself lend credence to the contentions
 which were advanced by DIAL/MIAL. In order to evaluate this
 submission we extract Para 93 of the opinion rendered by the Presiding
 Arbitrator hereinbelow: 24. .....The contextual background in which the PPA
 originally came to be made, the subsequent amendments,
 the understanding of the respondent of the agreement as
 reflected from its own communications and pleadings make
 it extremely relevant that a contextual interpretation be
 given to the question..... 26. A commercial document cannot be interpreted in a
 manner to arrive at a complete variance with what may
 originally have been the intendment of the parties. Such a
 situation can only be contemplated when the implied term
 can be considered necessary to lend efficacy to the terms of
 the contract. If the contract is capable of interpretation on its
 plain meaning with regard to the true intention of the parties
 it will not be prudent to read implied terms on the
 understanding of a party, or by the court, with regard to
 business efficacy as observed in Satya Jain v. Anis Ahmed
 Rushdie (2013) 8 SCC 131: In this case the definition of "Revenue" is specific, clear and
 exhaustive. What should be the base and what should be the
 exclusion/deduction is specified. In such a case, it is necessary to
 give effect to the plain and ordinary meaning of the words and it is
 impermissible to add words, let alone additional terms to the
 definition of "Revenue" by relying upon the business efficacy
 principle. It was thus submitted that when tested on the principles of business Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 119 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 efficacy it became apparent that if the interpretation as suggested by
 AAI were to be accepted, DIAL/MIAL would be faced with a
 mathematical impossibility and become totally disabled from
 recovering ‗costs relating to Aeronautical Assets'. 125. Learned senior counsels also assailed the view expressed by the
 Presiding Arbitrator and which according to them had incorrectly
 proceeded on the basis of a perceived distinction and wedge between
 the OMDA and SSA. It was submitted that both those Project
 Agreements were liable to be read together and harmoniously
 interpreted in order to give effect to the intent of parties. In any view, it
 was submitted, the opinion rendered by the Co-Arbitrators can hardly
 be said to constitute a view that no reasonable or fair minded person
 would have reached on a plausible and possible construction of the
 OMDA. 126. Both the respondents then vociferously countered the contention
 of AAI that the entrustment of quantification to an Independent Auditor
 amounted to the delegation of a judicial function. It was in this regard
 submitted that the exercise of computation would have necessarily
 entailed the examination of voluminous financial accounts of parties as
 well as an exercise of arithmetical reconciliation. It was submitted that
 the placement of an Independent Auditor to undertake such a
 reconciliation is something which the OMDA itself envisaged in Article
 11.2. It was thus submitted that it would be wholly incorrect for AAI to
 contend that the exercise of quantification had been delegated to a third
 party or a complete stranger to the contract. It was submitted that AAI
 itself had in its SoD acknowledged the existence of the office of an
 Independent Auditor for the purposes of reconciliation and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 120 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 computation. Reference in this respect was made specifically to Para 45
 of the SoD. It was submitted that even the Presiding Arbitrator had set
 apart the issue of computation of amounts liable to be reversed and
 adjusted to the Independent Auditor as would be evident from Para 251
 of its opinion and which is extracted hereinbelow: It was in the aforesaid backdrop that the Tribunal had ultimately left
 that issue open to be addressed at the time of final determination. 129. In order to appreciate the arguments addressed in this respect, we
 deem it apposite to extract the following parts from the Procedural
 Order dated 13 October 2019: Parties are not able to reach any consensus in regard to the
 suggestion under discussion. In the absence of any consensus the
 Tribunal is of the view that the matter should be proceeded in the
 normal manner by permitting both parties to adduce evidence and
 decide the matter thereafter.‖ 130. Learned senior counsels submitted that the contentions which are
 sought to be advanced by AAI in these proceedings flies in the face of
 its own stated stand in the SoD as would be evident from the following
 extracts: 131. Learned senior counsels also questioned the correctness of AAI's
 submission of the Independent Auditor being in no position to compute
 and quantify claims. It was in this regard submitted that firstly the
 Independent Auditor is a creation of the OMDA itself. Reference in this
 respect was made to Article 11.1.2.4 and which binds parties to accept
 the reconciled accounts as verified by the Independent Auditor. Article
 11.1.2.4 is extracted hereinbelow: The Respondent does not dispute, but instead relies on, the contents
 of such revenue audit reports. Significantly, the Respondent has no
 counter-claim against the Claimant. The Respondent has also
 admitted the audited financial statements of the Claimant (Annexure
 C-42 (Colly.)). Thus, evidently the difference between the Claimant
 and the Respondent lies in the area or the items to be included or
 excluded in arriving at the "Revenue", rather than the amounts
 involved in relation to each such item. 49. ln this backdrop, and in order to avoid unnecessarily burdening
 the record in this arbitration, wherever possible, the Claimant has
 accepted, for the limited purpose of its claim in this arbitration, the
 relevant amounts reflected in such reports of the Independent
 Auditor. The Claimant has even done so where the amounts in such
 reports are marginally less than the amounts which the Claimant has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 126 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 claimed. The Claimant has even chosen not to press certain claims or
 parts thereof. xxxx xxxx xxxx 51. The Independent Auditor's reports, produced and relied upon by
 the Respondent, in fact, establish the collection of an aggregate
 amount of INR 10,977.59 Crores by way of UDF (gross of collection
 charges) during the period from 2006 to 30.09.2018. As against this,
 the certificate of the Claimant's Statutory Auditor (Annexure C-11)
 certifies an aggregate collection of lNR 10,977.61 Crores by way of
 UDF (gross of collection charges) during the aforesaid period, as set
 out in the table below: FC and UDF received by the Claimant is annexed hereto and marked
 as Exhibit CW1/10. ii. OTHER INCOME 52. As i have explained above, Annual Fee is not payable on Other
 Income of the Claimant. The Independent Auditors' reports,
 produced and relied on by the Respondent, set out amounts of Other
 Income during the period from 2006 to 30.09.2018, aggregating to
 INR 1,164.28 Crores for the aforesaid period on which the Annual
 Fee is paid. As against this, the certificate of the Claimant's Statutory
 Auditor (Annexure C-12) certifies an aggregate amount of INR
 1,169.33 Crores by way of Other Income received by the Claimant
 during the aforesaid period. The amounts of Other Income received
 by the Claimant, as recorded in the reports of the Independent
 Auditor and as certified by the Claimant's Statutory Auditor are as
 set out in the table below: Aeronautical Revenue in one particular year (2009-10), though such
 interest on delayed payments have been considered as Other Income
 by the Independent Auditor in other years. This very amount has also
 been shown as Other Income in the audited financial statements for
 the relevant year (2009-10), which has been admitted by the
 Respondent (Annexure C-42 (Colly.) at page 1740). However, the
 Claimant does not wish to enter into any controversy on this account
 in the present arbitration and accordingly accepts, for the limited
 purpose of its claim in this arbitration, INR 1,164.28 Crores,
 recorded in the reports of the Independent Auditor, as the aggregate
 amount of Other Income received by the Claimant as of 30.09.2018
 on which Annual Fee is paid. This is without prejudice to the
 Claimant's right to treat the same as Other Income in subsequent
 years. A chart referencing the relevant page numbers or the reports or
 the Independent Auditor recording the aforementioned amounts or
 Other Income received by the Claimant is annexed hereto and
 marked as Exhibit CW1/11.‖ 133. The submission in essence was that the quantification exercise
 would be liable to be undertaken bearing in mind the statutory returns
 and reports which had already been submitted before the Independent
 Auditor. In view of the above, it was their submission that AAI's
 contention that new evidence would have to be laid before the
 Independent Auditor is clearly misconceived. 134. The detailed written submissions tendered on behalf of MIAL
 largely advances identical arguments in support of the Impugned Award Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 129 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 as rendered. However, we deem it apposite to deal with the aspect of
 Target Revenue which was dealt with in some detail in MIAL's filing.
 Referring to the concept of Target Revenue and the formula for its
 quantification as embodied in the SSA, MIAL contended that the
 capital cost recovery items formed part of the detailed formula which
 stands adopted in the SSA for the determination of Target Revenue. It
 was thus submitted that since these costs are duly factored in and taken
 into consideration it would be wholly incorrect for AAI to contend that
 those costs should be removed from consideration for the purposes of
 determination of Annual Fee. 135. MIAL also laid emphasis on the fundamental principle of tariff
 fixation and which according to Schedule 1 of the SSA would comprise
 of the following principal elements: 136. Insofar as the aspect of Other Income is concerned, MIAL argued
 that the OMDA does not forbid it from and as part of prudent
 commercial planning, investing surplus funds and undertaking activities
 in connection with the Grant. However, and since these activities are
 not connected with Airport Business, the same cannot possibly form
 part of shareable revenue. D. A BRIEF BACKGROUND 137. Before proceeding to deal with the rival contentions which were
 addressed, it would be appropriate to go back in point of time and
 acknowledge the principle shift in policy which came to be adopted by
 the Union in relation to the management of airports across the country.
 This essentially takes us back to the promulgation of Act 43 of 2003
 and which saw the introduction of Section 12-A in the AAI Act . Section
 12-A reads as under: 138. Prior to the insertion of that provision in the Act, AAI was
 statutorily obliged to discharge various functions set out in Section 12 and which included the establishment of airports, the planning and
 development of airports and civil enclaves. By virtue of Section 12-A
 AAI stood empowered to lease the premises of an airport in the interest
 of better management to a lessee who would in turn discharge the
 various functions entrusted upon AAI by virtue of Section 12 of the
 AAI Act. It was in furtherance of that policy shift that AAI incorporated
 DIAL and MIAL on 01 March 2006 for the purposes of restructuring
 and modernization of IGIA at New Delhi and the CSMIA at Mumbai. 139. Pursuant to the bidding process that came to be initiated by AAI,
 a consortium consisting of GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (the lead member),
 GMR Energy Ltd., Malaysian Airport (Mauritius) Pvt. Ltd., Fraport AG
 Frankfurt Services Worldwide, GVL Investments Ltd. and India
 Development Fund came to be selected as the Joint Venture25 partner
 of AAI for IGIA. A similar consortium led by GVK Airport Holdings
 Ltd. and consisting of ACSA Global Ltd. and Bid Services Division
 (Mauritius) Ltd. was selected as the JV partner of AAI for CSMIA. 140. It is pertinent to note that the JV partners were, in terms of the
 tender conditions, liable to be identified on the basis of the highest
 percentage of revenue that it offered to share with AAI. While DIAL
 had offered to share 45.99% of the revenue, the consortium which had
 bid for being selected as the JV partner in MIAL had offered 38.7% of
 such revenue. 141. Upon the selection of the JV partners, AAI proceeded to transfer
 74% of its share capital in DIAL and MIAL to the successful bidders
 and retained the remaining 26% of the share capital in each entity with
 itself. Both DIAL and MIAL were, in 2017, converted into public
 limited companies, with both the JV partner and AAI being
 shareholders in the ratio of 74:26. The OMDA which came to be
 executed between AAI and DIAL/MIAL incorporated the following
 salient provisions. 142. ‗Aeronautical assets' were defined under the OMDA to be those
 which were necessarily required to be created for the performance of
 Aeronautical Services. It further brought within its ambit such other
 assets as the JVC would procure for or in relation to the provision of
 various activities as defined. ‗Aeronautical Services' were identified
 and particularized in Schedule 5, and which has already been extracted
 hereinabove. The expression ‗Airport Business' as noticed earlier, was
 defined to mean the business of operating, maintaining, developing,
 designing, constructing, upgrading, modernizing, financing and
 managing the airport and providing airport services. The expression
 ‗Aeronautical Charges' was defined in Article 12.1.1 of the OMDA.
 ‗Airport Services' was explained by OMDA to constitute both
 Aeronautical as well as Non-Aeronautical Services. 143. Apart from the above, the following significant expressions used
 at different places of the OMDA came to be defined in the following
 terms: 144. ‗Non-Aeronautical Assets' was, as per the OMDA, defined as
 under: Aeronautical Services at the Airport as listed in Part I of Schedule 6
 and any other services mutually agreed to be added to the Schedule 6
 hereof as located at the Airport (irrespective of whether they are
 owned by the JVC or any third Entity); and 2. all assets required or necessary for the performance of Non-
 Aeronautical Services at the Airport as listed in Part II of Schedule 6
 hereof as located at the Airport (irrespective of whether they are
 owned by the JVC or any third Entity), to the extent such assets (a)
 are located within or form part of any terminal building; (b) are
 conjoined to any other Aeronautical Assets, asset included in
 paragraph (i) above and such assets are incapable of independent
 access and independent existence; or (c) are predominantly
 servicing/ catering any terminal complex/cargo complex

 and shall specifically include all additional land (other than the
 Demised Premises), property and structures thereon acquired or
 leased during the Term, in relation to such Non-Aeronautical
 Assets.‖ 145. The expression ‗Non-Aeronautical Services', which was a term
 used in the earlier provisions was explained to mean those services as
 listed in Schedule 6. The expression ‗Project Agreements' came to be
 defined as follows: 146. OMDA identified the ‗Relevant Authority' to be the following: 147. Of critical significance and which in fact formed the bone of
 contention between the parties was the word ‗Revenue' which was
 defined in OMDA as under: 148. Chapter II of OMDA dealt with the Scope of Grant, and since Article 2.1 would have an important bearing on the questions which
 stand posited, we extract that provision hereunder: Aeronautical Services; (iii) determine, demand, collect, retain and appropriate
 charges from the users of the Airport in accordance with Article 12 hereto; and (iv) Contract and/or sub contract with third parties to
 undertake functions on behalf of the JVC, and sub-lease
 and/or license the Demised Premises in accordance with
 Article 8.5.7.‖ 149. It would also be apposite to extract Article 2.2.1, 2.2.3 and 2.2.4
 and which are reproduced hereinbelow: Provided however that the JVC may engage in developing,
 constructing, operating or maintaining a second airport Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 137 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 pursuant to exercise of the Right of First Refusal granted to the
 JVC under the State Support Agreement. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.2.3 Aeronautical Services, Non-Aeronautical Services and
 Essential Services
 Subject to the foregoing and to Applicable Law, JVC shall
 undertake/provide Aeronautical Services and Essential
 Services at the Airport Site. JVC may seek to
 undertake/provide Non-Aeronautical Services at the Airport
 Site by including them in the proposed (draft) Master Plan,
 provided however, if the same form a part of the (final) Master
 Plan then the same shall be undertaken as provided in this
 Agreement. JVC and AAI shall upon mutual agreement
 between the Parties update the list of Non-Aeronautical
 Services to include such other activities, as requested by AAI
 or JVC. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, the
 JVC shall not undertake any activities at the Airport Site other
 than Aeronautical Services, Non-Aeronautical Services and
 Essential Services. 2.2.4 It is expressly understood by the Parties that JVC shall provide
 Non-Aeronautical Services at the Airport as above, provided
 however that the land area utilized for provision of Non-
 Transfer Assets shall not exceed five percent (or such different
 percentage as set forth in the master plan norms of the
 competent local authority of Delhi, as the same may change
 from time to time) of the total land area constituting the
 Demised Premises. Provided however that the Non-Transfer
 Assets, if any, that form part of the Carved-Out Assets and/or
 situated upon the Existing Leases shall be taken into account
 while calculating the percentage of total land area utilized for
 provision of Non-Transfer Assets.‖ 150. Chapter III specified the Conditions Precedent and dealt with the
 obligations which were to be discharged by AAI and the JVC. This
 becomes clear from a reading of Article 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 which are
 reproduced hereunder: (viii) AAI shall have executed and delivered to the JVC a
 counterpart of the Lease Deed. Provided however that Parties
 agree that AAI shall execute the Lease Deed only after all
 other conditions precedent mentioned in this Chapter 3 have
 been fulfilled. 3.1.2 Conditions Precedent to be satisfied by JVC
 The obligations of the AAI hereunder are subject to the
 satisfaction by JVC of the following conditions precedent
 ("JVC Conditions Precedent") unless any such condition has
 been waived by the AAI as hereinafter provided: In this regard, it is clarified that the Airport Operator
 Agreement, as drafted, shall contain all the principles set
 forth in Schedule 8 hereunder and shall have been
 commented on and reviewed by the AAI. The procedure of
 obtaining AAI review/ comments on the draft Airport
 Operator Agreement is as contained hereunder: (viii) The Consortium Members shall have delivered to the AAI a
 bank guarantee(s) (the "Equity Bank Guarantee") from a
 scheduled commercial bank in India in favour of JVC in the
 form enclosed in Schedule 22, guaranteeing the equity
 commitment in the JVC of the Consortium Members up to Rs
 500 Crores. The said Equity Bank Guarantee shall be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 140 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 maintained until the entire amount of Rs 500 Crores is
 infused by the Consortium Members as its equity
 contribution into the JVC, provided however that the value of
 the Equity Bank Guarantee may be progressively reduced
 correspondingly as amounts are actually infused by the
 Consortium Members into the JVC as equity. Within seven
 days of receipt of the Equity Bank Guarantee, AAI would
 duly return the commitment letters from the ultimate holding
 company of Consortium Members and also return the joint
 and several undertaking with respect to the equity
 commitment of the Consortium Members as received from
 the Consortium Members during the competitive bidding
 procedure undertaken by AAI for the purposes of the
 selection of the private participants in the JVC. In the event
 AAI invokes the Equity Bank Guarantee, the receivables
 therefrom shall be deposited into the Escrow Account. (ix) The JVC shall have executed and delivered to the AAI a
 counter part of the Lease Deed.‖ 151. Of equal significance is Article 3.1.3 and which specified the
 Common Conditions Precedent. The said covenant forming part of the
 OMDA is extracted hereunder: 152. The shareholding pattern of the JVC, as would have come into
 effect upon the execution of OMDA stands specified in Article 4.1(f) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 141 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 for DIAL and MIAL respectively and which are reproduced
 hereinbelow: contractors' offices and compounds and the restriction of
 access to the Airport to authorized Entities only, ensuring at
 all times smooth operation of the Airport and minimum
 interference with day to day running of the Airport and will
 prepare and issue a manual of rules and regulations relating
 to the Airport to be observed by all Entities having business
 upon the Airport and which shall apply to all such Entities
 without discrimination. The NC shall provide such manual to
 the AAI who may require JVC to make reasonably
 appropriate modifications in the said manual. (iv) The JVC will ensure that all materials, equipment,
 machinery, etc installed and/or used at the Airport including
 the constructions or repair of the Airport will be of sound and
 merchantable quality, that all workmanship shall be in
 accordance with Good Industry Practices applicable at the
 time of installation, construction or repair and that each part
 of the construction will be fit for the purpose for which it is
 required as stated in or as may be reasonably inferred from
 the Master Plan and the Major Development Plan. (v) Neither the submission of any drawing or document under or
 pursuant to any provision of this Agreement or otherwise, nor
 its approval or disapproval, nor the raising of queries on, or
 the making of objections to or the making of comments,
 suggestions or reconm1endations on the same by the AAI
 shall prejudice or affect any of the JVC's obligations or
 liabilities in relation to design and construction, which shall
 not be relieved, absolved or otherwise modified in any
 respect. (vi) The JVC shall pay all taxes, levies, import duties, fees
 (including any license fees) and other charges, dues,
 assessments or outgoings payable in respect of the Demised
 Premises or the structures to be constructed thereon or in
 respect of the materials stored therein which may be levied
 by any Governmental Authority and any other governmental,
 quasi governmental, administrative, judicial, public or
 statutory body, ministry, department, instrumentality, agency,
 authority, board, bureau, corporation entrusted with, and
 carrying out, any statutory functions(s) or commission.‖ 155. OMDA also required the JVC to undertake various Mandatory
 Capital Projects in terms of Article 8.2 and reads thus: Provided however that the total liability of the NC under this Article 8.2 for delay in respect of a particular Mandatory
 Capital Project shall not exceed 10% (ten percent) of the
 capital cost of the relevant Mandatory Capital Project.
 8.2.4 Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the
 commencement of construction of a particular Mandatory
 Capital Project has been delayed and liquidated damages for
 such delay have been levied and paid according to Article 8 .2.2 above, and such Mandatory Capital Project has,
 notwithstanding the delay in commencement in construction,
 been completed by the time it would have been completed
 had the construction of the relevant Mandatory Capital
 Project been commenced on time, as set forth in Schedule 7,
 then the liquidated damages that have been paid for delay in
 commencement of construction shall be returned by AAI to
 JVC without any interest.‖ 156. In terms of Article 8.3 , the JVC was obligated to prepare a
 Master Plan and which was to incorporate details of the development
 initiatives which were proposed to be undertaken spread over a 20-year
 time period. The Master Plan was envisaged to include the overall
 development strategy as also incorporate details of plans for
 commercial development, surface transport, runway systems, traffic for
 cars, the vision of the airport itself and various other aspects which are
 spelt out in Article 8.3.1. 157. That then takes us to Chapter XI, and which sets out the manner
 and modalities for the computation of Annual Fee. Since the challenge
 centers and revolves upon the covenants forming part of the said
 Chapter, the same is extracted in toto: 11.1.2 Annual Fee

 11.1.2.1 The JVC shall also pay to the AAI an annual fee ("AF") for
 each Year during the Term of this Agreement of the amount
 set forth below: It is clarified that if the projected quarterly Revenue is equal
 to or less than 110% of the actual quarterly Revenue, then
 no interest shall be payable; interest shall only be payable
 on the difference between the actual quarterly Revenue and
 the projected quarterly Revenue in the event the actual
 quarterly Revenue is greater than 110% of the projected
 quarterly Revenue. 11.1.2.4 The applicable Revenue used for final
 verification/reconciliation of the AF shall be the Revenue of the JFC
 as certified by the Independent Auditor every quarter. 11. 2 Independent Auditor (i) Appointment of Independent Auditor (a) An Independent Auditor shall be appointed for the purposes
 mentioned herein. (b) The procedure of the appointment of the Independent
 Auditor shall be as follows: 11.3 Right of Inspection
 The AAI and its representatives shall be pem1itted to inspect
 at any reasonable time the books, records and other material
 kept by or on behalf of the JVC in order to check or audit any
 information (including the calculation of Revenue) supplied
 to the AAI under this Agreement. The JVC shall make
 available to the AAI and its representatives such information
 and grant such access or procure the grant of such access
 (including to or from third parties) as they shall reasonably
 require in connection therewith. If any such exercise reveals
 that information previously supplied to the AAI was in any
 material respect inaccurate on the basis of information
 available to the JVC at the time, the costs of any such
 exercise shall be borne by the JVC.‖ 158. The subject of tariff was regulated by the provisions enshrined in
 Chapter XII and which is reproduced in its entirety hereinbelow: Aeronautical Services that are also Essential Services, shall
 be provided free of charge to passengers. 12.4 Passenger Service Fees

 12.4.1 The Passenger Service Fees shall be collected and disbursed
 in accordance with the provisions of the State Support
 Agreement.‖ 159. As is manifest from a reading of the stipulations contained in
 Chapter XI, the JVC took on the obligation to make payment of an
 Upfront Fee and Annual Fee in consideration of the Grant. The Upfront
 Fee was stipulated to be INR 150 crores, and was to be paid on or
 before the Effective Date. This payment was to be a non-refundable
 one-time payment except where the agreement were to be terminated in
 accordance with Article 3.3. Similar provisions exist in the OMDA
 which was executed for CSMIA. 160. Apart from the aforenoted Upfront Fee, the JVC was liable to
 pay AAI an Annual Fee for each year comprised in the term of the
 Agreement. The Annual Fee was prescribed to be 45.99% and 38.7% of
 the ‗projected Revenue' for each year with ‗projected Revenue' being
 that as disclosed in the Business Plan. The Annual Fee was payable in
 12 equal monthly instalments and to be paid on the first day of each
 calendar month. Article 11.1.2.3 embodied a process of reconciliation
 and truing up of accounts in case there be a disparity between the
 projected and actual revenue that may be generated. It thus provided Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 150 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 that in case in any quarter the actual revenue exceeded the projected
 revenue, the JVC would become liable to pay additional Annual Fee
 representing the difference between the actual quarterly and the
 projected quarterly revenue. Parallel provisions were made to cater to a
 contingency where the projected revenue were to exceed the actual
 revenue generated. In such a situation, a corresponding obligation came
 to be placed upon AAI to make good the difference. This exercise of
 reconciliation and computation of applicable revenue and its final
 verification was entrusted by both parties to the Independent Auditor 161. Chapter XII spelt out the manner in which the JVC would recoup
 the costs connected with the provision of Aeronautical Services. The
 Aeronautical Charges were to be determined in accordance with the
 provisions contained in the SSA. Both DIAL and MIAL thus bound by
 the provisions pertaining to tariff regulation contained in Chapter XII
 could levy and collect only such Aeronautical Charges as would be
 determined under the provisions of the SSA. These Aeronautical
 Charges were to pay for the provision of Aeronautical Services and aid
 in the recovery of ‗costs relating to aeronautical assets'. However, and
 as per Article 12.2 , the JVC was enabled to charge such fee as it
 deemed fit in respect of Non-Aeronautical Services. The levy of fees
 for Non-Aeronautical Services was thus left unregulated and at the
 discretion of DIAL/MIAL. 162. The SSA undoubtedly formed part of the Project Agreements as
 defined in the OMDA and essentially formed part of the family of nine
 principal and foundational agreements which came to be
 contemporaneously executed. This becomes apparent from the
 following provisions which form part of the SSA. The SSA at the outset Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 151 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 acknowledged the shift in policy in relation to the management of
 airports in the country, of liberalization and the enablement of AAI to
 search for private participants who were desirous to operate, maintain
 and develop airports. The SSA proceeds further to record that in
 consideration of the JVC having entered into the OMDA, the Union
 Government was agreeable to provide support in the manner detailed in
 that Agreement. The support that the Union was liable to extend came
 to be spelt out in Clause 3 of the SSA and which could be broadly
 classified under the following heads: PSF Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 152 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 (d) Government of India Services: The Union undertook to
 provide various services at the airport during the term of the
 contract. These were explained to include customs control,
 immigration services, planned quarantine, annual quarantine,
 health, meteorological and security services. (e) Right of First Refusal: The SSA further accorded the JVC the
 right of first refusal in case a second airport within a 150 km
 radius were to come up. (f) Master Plan Review: This obligated the JVC to submit a
 master plan to the Union Government every ten years setting out
 traffic forecasts, details with respect to development standards
 and laying out the future vision for the airport. (g) Major Development Review: This placed the JVC under an
 obligation to submit a Major Development Plan for the
 consideration of the Union Government from time to time. 163. The Principles of Tariff Fixation were set out in Schedules 1 and 6. Schedules 1 and 6 are reproduced hereinbelow: set performance in respect to service quality performance as
 defined in the Operations Management Development Agreement
 (OMDA) and revised from time to time. 8. Master Plan and Major Development Plans: AERA will accept
 the Master Plan and Major Development Plans as reviewed and
 commented by the GOI and will not seek to question or change
 the approach to development if it is consistent with these plans.
 However, the AERA would have the right to assess the efficiency
 with which capital expenditure is undertaken. 9. Consultation: The Joint Venture Company will be required to
 consult and have reasonable regard to the views of relevant major
 airport users with respect to planned major airport development. 10. Pricing responsibility: Within the overall price cap the JVC will
 be able to impose charges subject to those charges being
 consistent with these pricing principles and IATA pricing
 principles as revised from time to time including the following: Calculating the aeronautical charges in the shared till inflation -- X price cap
 model. The revenue target is defined as follows
 TRi=RBixWACCi+OMi+Di+Ti+Si

 Where TR= target revenue
 RB= regulatory base pertaining to Aeronautical Assets and
 any investments made for the performance of Reserved
 Activities etc. which are owned by the JVC, after
 incorporating efficient capital expenditure but does not
 include capital work in progress to the extent not capitalised
 in fixed assets. It is further clarified that working capital shall
 not be included as part of regulatory base. It is further
 clarified that penalties and Liquidated Damages, if any,
 levied as per the provisions of the OMDA would not be
 allowed for capitalization in the regulatory base. It is further
 clarified that the Upfront Fee and any pre-operative expenses
 incurred by the Successful Bidder towards bid preparation
 will not be allowed to be capitalised in the regulatory base.
 WACC = nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital,
 calculated using the marginal rate of corporate tax
 OM = efficient operation and maintenance cost pertaining to
 Aeronautical Services. It is clarified that penalties and
 Liquidated Damages, if any, levied as per the provisions of
 the OMDA would not be allowed as part of operation and
 maintenance cost. D = depreciation calculated in the manner as prescribed in Schedule XIV of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 . In the
 event, the depreciation rates for certain assets are not
 available in the aforesaid Act, then the depreciation rates as
 provided in the Income Tax Act for such asset as converted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 155 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 to straight line method from the written down value method
 will be considered. In the event, such rates are not available
 in either of the Acts then depreciation rates as per generally
 accepted Indian accounting standards may be considered.
 T = corporate taxes on earnings pertaining to Aeronautical
 Services. S = 30% of the gross revenue generated by the JVC from the
 Revenue Share Assets. The costs in relation to such revenue
 shall not be included while calculating Aeronautical Charges.
 ―Revenue Share Assets‖ shall mean (a) Non-Aeronautical
 Assets; and (b) assets required for provision of aeronautical
 related services arising at the Airport and not considered in
 revenue from Non-Aeronautical Assets (e.g. Public
 admission fee etc.)
 i = time period (year) i
 RBi = RBi-1 - Di + Ii
 Where RB0 for the for the first regulatory period would be
 the sum total of (i) the Book Value of the Aeronautical Assets in the
 books of the JVC
 and (ii) the hypothetical regulatory base computed using
 the then prevailing tariff and the revenues, operation
 and maintenance cost, corporate tax pertaining to
 Aeronautical Services at the Airport, during the
 financial year preceding the date of such
 computation. I = investment undertaken in the period
 The X factor is calculated by determining the X factor that equates
 the present value over the regulatory period of the target revenue
 with the present value that results from applying the forecast traffic
 volume with a price path based on the initial average aeronautical
 charge, increased by CPI minus X for each year. That is, the
 following equation is solved for X: where ACij = average aeronautical charge for the jth category of
 aeronautical revenue in the ith year Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 156 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Tij = volume of the jth category of aeronautical traffic in the
 ith year
 X = escalation factor
 n = number of years considered in the regulatory period
 m = number of categories of aeronautical revenue e.g.
 landing charges, parking charges, housing charges,
 Facilitation Component etc.
 The maximum average aeronautical charge (price cap) in a particular
 year ‗i' for a particular category of aeronautical revenue 'j', is then
 calculated according to the following formula: 166. AERA noted in its First Tariff Orders that one of the important
 revenue parameters for adjudging different bids was the revenue share 27 AERA Act 28 UDF Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 161 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 percentage. The JVCs' bids for the revenue to be shared with AAI was
 not to be taken as a cost while determining aeronautical tariffs. Further,
 AERA spelt out details pertaining to the ‗Price Cap Mechanism' and its
 general approach in the determination of Aeronautical Charges. The
 statutory body decided to consider the provisions of the SSA read with
 the OMDA and other Project Agreements, insofar as they were
 consistent with the provisions of the AERA Act. Further, in the absence
 of any other basis for the allocation of aeronautical and non-
 aeronautical assets, AERA accepted DIAL/MIAL's proposals for the
 allocation of such assets. However, it also held that it would
 commission an independent study for the truing up of asset allocation,
 leaving it open to be corrected in the following control period if
 required. In respect of capital costs, AERA decided not to allow any
 collection charges on Development Fees to be covered as operating
 expenditure and additionally delinked the Facilitation Component from
 PSF and included the same as part of UDF. AERA further held that if
 the service providers of Aeronautical Services were the airport
 operators themselves, then revenues accruing from those services to the
 airport operator would be treated as Aeronautical Revenue and in such a
 case, the costs incurred by the service providers would also be taken
 into account while determining aeronautical tariff. 167. However, if the provision of those services were to be outsourced
 to a third party, including a JVC as in the case of DIAL/MIAL, the third
 party would be liable to be viewed as the service provider and
 consequently come within the ambit of regulation including tariff
 determination. 168. Having identified the principal submissions which were
 addressed on these appeals, this would be an appropriate juncture to
 delineate the broad contours and extent of scrutiny and review which
 we could justifiably undertake whilst adjudging the validity of the
 award which stands impugned before us. It would at the outset be
 important to bear in mind that the recourse against an award, as
 constructed in terms of Section 34 of the Act, is not intended to be an
 appeal on the merits of the dispute. In the context of the present
 petitions, it would essentially have to be supervisory and corrective to
 the extent of fundamental and apparent errors, patent perversity or
 illegality and where the award be said to be unsustainable when viewed
 through the eyes of the metaphorical reasonable person. The remedy
 under Section 34 is thus neither intended to be resorted to correct an
 error of judgment nor is it liable to be wielded to review an award basis
 an independent formation of opinion of what the court may consider to
 be more eminent or justified. Interference with an award would also not
 be justified on an alternative interpretation or view which could be
 legitimately harboured. As would be evident upon a review of the body
 of precedent which has evolved on the subject of the Section 34 power,
 it is universally acknowledged to be the test of ―unpardonable
 perversity‖. The patent perversity thus must be of a degree which
 exposes the very foundation of the award to an assertion of inexcusable
 fallacy as opposed to errors of judgment. 169. Courts while being called to exercise their corrective jurisdiction
 as conferred by Section 34 must, at all times, be cognizant of an arbitral
 tribunal having been chosen by respective sides to render judgment Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 163 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 which is contractually agreed to be binding and an outcome of the
 consensual mechanism of resolution of disputes which was agreed to by
 parties. Courts while evaluating a challenge under Section 34 would not
 be justified in faulting an award merely because an alternative view
 were possible or where they find that, in their opinion and when
 independently evaluated, a more just conclusion could have been
 possibly reached. It is equally important to bear in mind that an arbitral
 tribunal is empowered to interpret the terms of the contract. An
 interpretation of those covenants is not outside the remit or the
 jurisdiction which parties chose to confer. Thus, a view taken on a fair
 and reasonable evaluation of those covenants is not liable to be
 interfered with merely because the court were to harbour an alternative
 opinion. 170. The Court finds a lucid enunciation of these foundational
 principles and restrictions on the power to interfere with an award in a
 judgment penned by Chief Justice Menon of the Singapore Supreme
 Court in AKN and another vs. ALC and others29. The learned Chief
 Justice summarized the legal position as under: That is not to say that the courts can never intervene. However, the
 grounds for curial intervention are narrowly circumscribed, and
 generally concern process failures that are unfair and prejudice the
 parties or instances where the arbitral tribunal has made a decision
 that is beyond the scope of the arbitration agreement. It follows
 that, from the courts' perspective, the parties to an arbitration do
 not have a right to a ―correct‖ decision from the arbitral tribunal
 that can be vindicated by the courts. Instead, they only have a right
 to a decision that is within the ambit of their consent to have their
 dispute arbitrated, and that is arrived at following a fair process. 39. In the light of their limited role in arbitral proceedings, the
 courts must resist the temptation to engage with what is
 substantially an appeal on the legal merits of an arbitral award, but
 which, through the ingenuity of counsel, may be disguised and
 presented as a challenge to process failures during the arbitration.
 A prime example of this would be a challenge based on an alleged
 breach of natural justice. When examining such a challenge, it is
 important that the court assesses the real nature of the
 complaint....‖ 171. Though the contours of the power conferred upon a court under
 Section 34 are well-settled, it would be appropriate to briefly revisit the
 precepts enunciated by courts and which must be borne in mind while
 evaluating a challenge to an award. It is trite law that the court while
 examining a challenge to an arbitral award is not exercising powers
 akin to that of an appeal. The award as rendered must lead the court to
 find that one or more of the grounds of challenge set out in Section
 34(2) stand attracted. It is in order to underline the narrow confines of
 the challenge that the Legislature uses the expressions ―only if‖ and
 ―the Court finds that‖ in Section 34. Additionally, and post the
 amendments which came to be introduced in Section 34 by virtue of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 165 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Act 3 of 2016, the court stands conferred with the additional power of
 setting aside an award if it finds the same to be vitiated by a patent
 illegality which is manifest or ex facie apparent. Of equal significance
 is the Proviso which stands erected by virtue of sub-section (2A) to
 Section 34 and which introduces a note of caution by providing that no
 award shall be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous
 application of the law or upon reappreciation of evidence. 172. This Court, therefore, would have to tread forward bearing in
 mind those and the other well-settled precepts. Rather than burdening
 this decision with various precedents which have explained the extent
 of the curial power and the limited contours of Section 34, it would be
 apposite to refer to the following passages which appear in the recent
 decision of the Supreme Court in DMRC Ltd. vs. Delhi Airport
 Metro Express (P) Ltd.30: 36. Patent illegality may also arise where the award is in breach of
 the provisions of the arbitration statute, as when for instance the
 award contains no reasons at all, so as to be described as
 unreasoned. 37. A fundamental breach of the principles of natural justice will
 result in a patent illegality, where for instance the arbitrator has let
 in evidence behind the back of a party. In the above decision , this
 Court in Associate Builders v. DDA [Associate Builders v. DDA,
 (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204] observed : (SCC pp.
 75 & 81, paras 31 & 42)
 ―31. The third juristic principle is that a decision which is
 perverse or so irrational that no reasonable person would
 have arrived at the same is important and requires some
 degree of explanation. It is settled law that where: ***
 42.1. ... 42.2. (b) A contravention of the Arbitration Act itself
 would be regarded as a patent illegality -- for example if an
 arbitrator gives no reasons for an award in contravention of Section 31(3) of the Act, such award will be liable to be set
 aside.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 38. In Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI [Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI,
 (2019) 15 SCC 131 : (2020) 2 SCC (Civ) 213] , a two-Judge Bench
 of this Court endorsed the position in Associate Builders [Associate
 Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204] , on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 167 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the scope for interference with domestic awards, even after the
 2015 Amendment : ( Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. case [ Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI , (2019)
 15 SCC 131 : (2020) 2 SCC (Civ) 213] , SCC p. 171, paras 40-41)
 ―40. The change made in Section 28(3) by the Amendment
 Act really follows what is stated in paras 42.3 to 45
 in Associate Builders [Associate Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3
 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204] , namely, that the
 construction of the terms of a contract is primarily for an
 arbitrator to decide, unless the arbitrator construes the
 contract in a manner that no fair-minded or reasonable
 person would; in short, that the arbitrator's view is not even
 a possible view to take. Also, if the arbitrator wanders
 outside the contract and deals with matters not allotted to
 him, he commits an error of jurisdiction. This ground of
 challenge will now fall within the new ground added under
 Section 34(2-A). 41. ... Thus, a finding based on no evidence at all or an
 award which ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision
 would be perverse and liable to be set aside on the ground of
 patent illegality. Additionally, a finding based on documents
 taken behind the back of the parties by the arbitrator would
 also qualify as a decision based on no evidence inasmuch as
 such decision is not based on evidence led by the parties, and
 therefore, would also have to be characterised as perverse.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 39. In essence, the ground of patent illegality is available for setting
 aside a domestic award, if the decision of the arbitrator is found to
 be perverse, or so irrational that no reasonable person would have
 arrived at it; or the construction of the contract is such that no fair
 or reasonable person would take; or, that the view of the arbitrator
 is not even a possible view. [ Patel Engg. Ltd. v. North Eastern
 Electric Power Corpn. Ltd. , (2020) 7 SCC 167 : (2020) 4 SCC
 (Civ) 149.] A ―finding‖ based on no evidence at all or an award
 which ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision would be
 perverse and liable to be set aside under the head of ―patent
 illegality‖. An award without reasons would suffer from patent
 illegality. The arbitrator commits a patent illegality by deciding a
 matter not within his jurisdiction or violating a fundamental
 principle of natural justice. 40. A judgment setting aside or refusing to set aside an arbitral
 award under Section 34 is appealable in the exercise of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 168 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 jurisdiction of the court under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. It
 has been clarified by this Court, in a line of precedent, that the
 jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act is akin to the
 jurisdiction of the Court under Section 34 and restricted to the same
 grounds of challenge as Section 34. [ MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. ,
 (2019) 4 SCC 163, para 14 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 293; Konkan
 Railway Corpn. Ltd. v. Chenab Bridge Project Undertaking , (2023)
 9 SCC 85, para 18 : (2023) 4 SCC (Civ) 458 : 2023 INSC 742, para 14.] 41. In the statutory scheme of the Arbitration Act , a recourse to
 Section 37 is the only appellate remedy available against a decision
 under Section 34. The Constitution, however, provides the parties
 with a remedy under Article 136 against a decision rendered in
 appeal under Section 37. This is the discretionary and exceptional
 jurisdiction of this Court to grant special leave to appeal. In fact, Section 37(3) of the Arbitration Act expressly clarifies that no
 second appeal shall lie from an order passed under Section 37 , but
 nothing in the section takes away the constitutional right under Article 136. Therefore, in a sense, there is a third stage at which
 this Court tests the exercise of jurisdiction by the courts acting
 under Section 34 and Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. xxxx xxxx xxxx (i) Interpretation of the termination clause by the Tribunal was
 unreasonable 46. Interference with an arbitral award cannot frustrate the
 ―commercial wisdom behind opting for alternate dispute
 resolution‖, merely because an alternate view exists. [ Dyna
 Technologies (P) Ltd. v. Crompton Greaves Ltd. , (2019) 20 SCC 1,
 paras 24-25.] However, the interpretation of a contract cannot be
 unreasonable, such that no person of ordinary prudence would take
 it. The contract, which is a culmination of the parties' agency,
 should be given full effect. If the interpretation of the terms of the
 contract as adopted by the Tribunal was not even a possible view,
 the award is perverse. [ Konkan Railway Corpn. Ltd. v. Chenab
 Bridge Project Undertaking , (2023) 9 SCC 85 : (2023) 4 SCC
 (Civ) 458 : 2023 INSC 742.]‖ 173. In Dyna Technologies, the Supreme Court while speaking on the
 width of the power conferred by Section 34 made the following
 pertinent observations: 174. An error that may be committed by an arbitral tribunal while
 undertaking an interpretative exercise of a contract and when that
 would constitute sufficient ground to interfere with an award was
 succinctly explained in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited in the following
 terms: 175. In a more recent decision, in UHL Power Company Limited, the
 Supreme Court after noticing the string of precedents which had ruled
 on the scope of interference with an award summarized the legal
 position as follows: settled by now that the Court does not sit in appeal over the
 arbitral award and may interfere on merits on the limited
 ground provided under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) i.e. if the award is
 against the public policy of India. As per the legal position
 clarified through decisions of this Court prior to the
 amendments to the 1996 Act in 2015, a violation of Indian
 public policy, in turn, includes a violation of the fundamental
 policy of Indian law, a violation of the interest of India,
 conflict with justice or morality, and the existence of patent
 illegality in the arbitral award. Additionally, the concept of
 the ―fundamental policy of Indian law‖ would cover
 compliance with statutes and judicial precedents, adopting a
 judicial approach, compliance with the principles of natural
 justice, and Wednesbury [Associated Provincial Picture
 Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn., (1948) 1 KB 223 (CA)]
 reasonableness. Furthermore, ―patent illegality‖ itself has
 been held to mean contravention of the substantive law of
 India, contravention of the 1996 Act, and contravention of the
 terms of the contract.‖
 xxxx xxxx xxxx 18. It has also been held time and again by this Court that if there
 are two plausible interpretations of the terms and conditions of the
 contract, then no fault can be found, if the learned arbitrator
 proceeds to accept one interpretation as against the other. In Dyna
 Technologies (P) Ltd. v. Crompton Greaves Ltd. [Dyna
 Technologies (P) Ltd. v. Crompton Greaves Ltd., (2019) 20 SCC
 1], the limitations on the Court while exercising powers under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act has been highlighted thus : (SCC
 p. 12, para 24)
 ―24. There is no dispute that Section 34 of the Arbitration
 Act limits a challenge to an award only on the grounds
 provided therein or as interpreted by various Courts. We
 need to be cognizant of the fact that arbitral awards should
 not be interfered with in a casual and cavalier manner,
 unless the Court comes to a conclusion that the perversity of
 the award goes to the root of the matter without there being
 a possibility of alternative interpretation which may sustain Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 172 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the arbitral award. Section 34 is different in its approach
 and cannot be equated with a normal appellate jurisdiction.
 The mandate under Section 34 is to respect the finality of
 the arbitral award and the party autonomy to get their
 dispute adjudicated by an alternative forum as provided
 under the law. If the Courts were to interfere with the
 arbitral award in the usual course on factual aspects, then
 the commercial wisdom behind opting for alternate dispute
 resolution would stand frustrated.‖ 19. In Parsa Kente Collieries Ltd. v. Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut
 Utpadan Nigam Ltd. [Parsa Kente Collieries Ltd. v. Rajasthan
 Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd., (2019) 7 SCC 236 : (2019) 3
 SCC (Civ) 552] , adverting to the previous decisions of this Court
 in McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd.
 [McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006)
 11 SCC 181] and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Dewan Chand Ram
 Saran [Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Dewan Chand Ram Saran,
 (2012) 5 SCC 306] , wherein it has been observed that an Arbitral
 Tribunal must decide in accordance with the terms of the contract,
 but if a term of the contract has been construed in a reasonable
 manner, then the award ought not to be set aside on this ground, it
 has been held thus : ( Parsa Kente Collieries case [ Parsa Kente
 Collieries Ltd. v. Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. ,
 (2019) 7 SCC 236 : (2019) 3 SCC (Civ) 552] , SCC pp. 244-45,
 para 9)
 ―9.1. ... It is further observed and held that construction of
 the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to decide
 unless the arbitrator construes the contract in such a way
 that it could be said to be something that no fair-minded or
 reasonable person could do. It is further observed by this
 Court in the aforesaid decision in para 33 that when a court is
 applying the ―public policy‖ test to an arbitration award, it
 does not act as a court of appeal and consequently errors of
 fact cannot be corrected. A possible view by the arbitrator on
 facts has necessarily to pass muster as the arbitrator is the
 ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be
 relied upon when he delivers his arbitral award. It is further
 observed that thus an award based on little evidence or on
 evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained
 legal mind would not be held to be invalid on this score.
 9.2. Similar is the view taken by this Court in NHAI v. ITD
 Cementation India Ltd. [NHAI v. ITD Cementation India
 Ltd., (2015) 14 SCC 21 : (2016) 2 SCC (Civ) 716] , SCC para
 25 and SAIL v. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd. [SAIL v.
 Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd., (2009) 10 SCC 63 : (2009) 4
 SCC (Civ) 16] , SCC para 29.‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 173 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 (emphasis supplied) 20. In Dyna Technologies [Dyna Technologies (P) Ltd. v.
 Crompton Greaves Ltd. , (2019) 20 SCC 1] , the view taken above
 has been reiterated in the following words : (SCC p. 12, para 25)
 ―25. Moreover, umpteen number of judgments of this Court
 have categorically held that the courts should not interfere
 with an award merely because an alternative view on facts
 and interpretation of contract exists. The courts need to be
 cautious and should defer to the view taken by the Arbitral
 Tribunal even if the reasoning provided in the award is
 implied unless such award portrays perversity unpardonable
 under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 22. In the instant case, we are of the view that the interpretation of
 the relevant clauses of the implementation agreement, as arrived at
 by the learned sole arbitrator, are both, possible and plausible.
 Merely because another view could have been taken, can hardly be
 a ground for the learned Single Judge to have interfered with the
 arbitral award. In the given facts and circumstances of the case, the
 appellate court has rightly held that the learned Single Judge
 exceeded his jurisdiction in interfering with the award by
 questioning the interpretation given to the relevant clauses of the
 implementation agreement, as the reasons given are backed by
 logic.‖ 176. The most succinct and lucid explanation of the extent of
 intervention which would be liable to be wielded while evaluating a
 challenge to an award, and which courts have repeatedly turned to, is
 found in the following observations rendered by the Supreme Court in
 Ssangyong Engineering: 177. One of the grounds which is available to a challenger who
 impugns an award is the ground of patent illegality. An error which
 could be said to fall within the scope of that phrase was explained in the
 following words by the Supreme Court in Indian Oil Corporation
 Limited vs. Shree Ganesh Petroleum31 : 44. However, a distinction has to be drawn between failure to act in
 terms of a contract and an erroneous interpretation of the terms of a
 contract. An Arbitral Tribunal is entitled to interpret the terms and
 conditions of a contract, while adjudicating a dispute. An error in
 interpretation of a contract in a case where there is valid and lawful
 submission of arbitral disputes to an Arbitral Tribunal is an error
 within jurisdiction. 45. The Court does not sit in appeal over the award made by an
 Arbitral Tribunal. The Court does not ordinarily interfere with
 interpretation made by the Arbitral Tribunal of a contractual
 provision, unless such interpretation is patently unreasonable or
 perverse. Where a contractual provision is ambiguous or is capable
 of being interpreted in more ways than one, the Court cannot
 interfere with the arbitral award, only because the Court is of the
 opinion that another possible interpretation would have been a
 better one.‖ 178. In PSA Sical Terminals (P) Ltd. vs. Board of Trustees of VO
 Chidambranar Port Trust Tuticorin32 , the Supreme Court explained
 and laid down the law with respect to when an award could be said to
 be contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian law. Explaining the
 concepts underlying the oft used phrase ‗public policy', the Supreme
 Court observed: 2021 SCC OnLine 508 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 177 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 41. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this
 Court in the case of MMTC Limited (supra): (See Associate Builders v. DDA [Associate Builders v. DDA, (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204]. Also
 see ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd. [ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes
 Ltd., (2003) 5 SCC 705]; Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends Coal
 Carbonisation [Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends Coal
 Carbonisation, (2006) 4 SCC 445]; and McDermott
 International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. [McDermott
 International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC
 181]) 13. It is relevant to note that after the 2015 Amendment to Section 34 , the above position stands somewhat modified.
 Pursuant to the insertion of Explanation 1 to Section 34(2) , Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 178 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the scope of contravention of Indian public policy has been
 modified to the extent that it now means fraud or corruption
 in the making of the award, violation of Section 75 or Section
 81 of the Act, contravention of the fundamental policy of
 Indian law, and conflict with the most basic notions of justice
 or morality. Additionally, sub-section (2-A) has been inserted
 in Section 34 , which provides that in case of domestic
 arbitrations, violation of Indian public policy also includes
 patent illegality appearing on the face of the award. The
 proviso to the same states that an award shall not be set aside
 merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law
 or by reappreciation of evidence. 14. As far as interference with an order made under Section
 34 , as per Section 37 , is concerned, it cannot be disputed that
 such interference under Section 37 cannot travel beyond the
 restrictions laid down under Section 34 . In other words, the
 court cannot undertake an independent assessment of the
 merits of the award, and must only ascertain that the exercise
 of power by the court under Section 34 has not exceeded the
 scope of the provision. Thus, it is evident that in case an
 arbitral award has been confirmed by the court under Section
 34 and by the court in an appeal under Section 37 , this Court
 must be extremely cautious and slow to disturb such
 concurrent findings.‖ 42. In Ssangyong Engineering and Construction Company
 Limited (supra), this Court after considering various judgments
 including the judgment in Associate Builders (supra) observed thus: A), added by the Amendment Act, 2015, to Section 34 . Here,
 there must be patent illegality appearing on the face of the
 award, which refers to such illegality as goes to the root of
 the matter but which does not amount to mere erroneous
 application of the law. In short, what is not subsumed within Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 180 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 ―the fundamental policy of Indian law‖, namely, the
 contravention of a statute not linked to public policy or public
 interest, cannot be brought in by the backdoor when it comes
 to setting aside an award on the ground of patent illegality. 38. Secondly, it is also made clear that reappreciation of
 evidence, which is what an appellate court is permitted to do,
 cannot be permitted under the ground of patent illegality
 appearing on the face of the award. 39. To elucidate, para 42.1 of Associate Builders [Associate
 Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ)
 204], namely, a mere contravention of the substantive law of
 India, by itself, is no longer a ground available to set aside an
 arbitral award. Para 42.2 of Associate Builders [Associate
 Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ)
 204], however, would remain, for if an arbitrator gives no
 reasons for an award and contravenes Section 31(3) of the
 1996 Act, that would certainly amount to a patent illegality
 on the face of the award. 40. The change made in Section 28(3) by the Amendment Act
 really follows what is stated in paras 42.3 to 45 in Associate
 Builders [Associate Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC
 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204], namely, that the construction
 of the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to
 decide, unless the arbitrator construes the contract in a
 manner that no fair-minded or reasonable person would; in
 short, that the arbitrator's view is not even a possible view to
 take. Also, if the arbitrator wanders outside the contract and
 deals with matters not allotted to him, he commits an error of
 jurisdiction. This ground of challenge will now fall within the
 new ground added under Section 34 (2-A). 41. What is important to note is that a decision which is
 perverse, as understood in paras 31 and 32 of Associate
 Builders [Associate Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC
 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204], while no longer being a ground
 for challenge under ―public policy of India‖, would certainly
 amount to a patent illegality appearing on the face of the
 award. Thus, a finding based on no evidence at all or an
 award which ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision
 would be perverse and liable to be set aside on the ground of
 patent illegality. Additionally, a finding based on documents
 taken behind the back of the parties by the arbitrator would
 also qualify as a decision based on no evidence inasmuch as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 181 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 such decision is not based on evidence led by the parties, and
 therefore, would also have to be characterised as perverse. 42. Given the fact that the amended Act will now apply, and
 that the ―patent illegality‖ ground for setting aside arbitral
 awards in international commercial arbitrations will not
 apply, it is necessary to advert to the grounds contained in Sections 34(2)(a)(iii) and (iv) as applicable to the facts of the
 present case.‖ 43. It will thus appear to be a more than settled legal position, that
 in an application under Section 34 , the court is not expected to act
 as an appellate court and reappreciate the evidence. The scope of
 interference would be limited to grounds provided under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. The interference would be so warranted
 when the award is in violation of ―public policy of India‖, which
 has been held to mean ―the fundamental policy of Indian law‖. A
 judicial intervention on account of interfering on the merits of the
 award would not be permissible. However, the principles of natural
 justice as contained in Section 18 and 34(2)(a)(iii) of the
 Arbitration Act would continue to be the grounds of challenge of an
 award. The ground for interference on the basis that the award is in
 conflict with justice or morality is now to be understood as a
 conflict with the ―most basic notions of morality or justice‖. It is
 only such arbitral awards that shock the conscience of the court,
 that can be set aside on the said ground. An award would be set
 aside on the ground of patent illegality appearing on the face of the
 award and as such, which goes to the roots of the matter. However,
 an illegality with regard to a mere erroneous application of law
 would not be a ground for interference. Equally, reappreciation of
 evidence would not be permissible on the ground of patent
 illegality appearing on the face of the award. 44. A decision which is perverse, though would not be a ground for
 challenge under ―public policy of India‖, would certainly amount to
 a patent illegality appearing on the face of the award. However, a
 finding based on no evidence at all or an award which ignores vital
 evidence in arriving at its decision would be perverse and liable to
 be set aside on the ground of patent illegality.‖ 179. The decision in PSA Sical assumes added significance, insofar as
 the present case is concerned, when one views Para 45 and where the
 Court summarised and chronicled the various factors which would Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 182 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 constitute the test of perversity. Para 45 of that decision is reproduced
 hereinbelow: 32. A good working test of perversity is contained in two
 judgments. In Excise and Taxation Officer-cum-Assessing
 Authority v. Gopi Nath & Sons [1992 Supp (2) SCC 312], it
 was held : (SCC p. 317, para 7)
 ―7. ... It is, no doubt, true that if a finding of fact is
 arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant material
 or by taking into consideration irrelevant material or
 if the finding so outrageously defies logic as to
 suffer from the vice of irrationality incurring the
 blame of being perverse, then, the finding is
 rendered infirm in law.‖
 In Kuldeep Singh v. Commr. of Police [(1999) 2 SCC
 10 : 1999 SCC (L&S) 429], it was held : (SCC p. 14, para 10)
 ―10. A broad distinction has, therefore, to be
 maintained between the decisions which are perverse
 and those which are not. If a decision is arrived at on
 no evidence or evidence which is thoroughly
 unreliable and no reasonable person would act upon
 it, the order would be perverse. But if there is some
 evidence on record which is acceptable and which
 could be relied upon, howsoever compendious it
 may be, the conclusions would not be treated as
 perverse and the findings would not be interfered
 with.‖‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 183 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 180. Thus, the fundamental and default rule which informs Section 34 is of minimal curial intervention. This rule is in turn based upon the
 principle of party autonomy and resting upon parties having entrusted
 the dispute resolution function to a body of their own choosing. The
 validity of an award would be liable to be tested on the principles of
 patent illegality and which in turn would require a curative court to
 come to the firm conclusion that the decision rendered is so perverse
 and irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at that
 conclusion. An award would be equally susceptible if it ignores the
 evidence on record or where its conclusion be ex facie contrary to the
 uncontested terms of the contract. 181. Having broadly recognised the principles which would inform
 the exercise of power under Section 34 of the Act, we note that in these
 two petitions, we are principally concerned with the interpretation of
 the contract and whether the view ultimately expressed would satisfy
 the tests as enunciated and noticed hereinabove. x. Interpretation of ―Revenue‖ 182. It is ironic that a singular word in the definition section of a
 complex contract became the principal cause for the dispute which
 arose inter partes. While elaborate submissions appear to have been
 addressed and voluminous evidence laid before the Tribunal, the
 disputation centered around the meaning to be assigned to the word
 ―Revenue‖ as it stands defined in the OMDA and the expression ―...all
 pre-tax gross revenue...‖ which appears therein. This becomes evident
 from the Presiding Arbitrator in Para 60 of his opinion crystallizing the
 ―areas of difference‖ as follows: 183. The OMDA compounds the dispute further by refraining from
 employing ―Revenue‖ in the singular in any of its material articles and
 clauses. That term which forms the crux of contestation invariably
 appears in conjunction with other words and thus phrases such as ―pre-
 tax gross revenue‖, ―projected Revenue‖ and ―actual Revenue‖ appear
 in different parts of the contract. It is also pertinent to note that the
 word ―gross‖ which appears in the defining clause is not replicated in
 either Chapters XI or XII of the OMDA. While the Presiding Arbitrator
 does dwell on the significance and meaning liable to be attributed to the
 term ―gross‖, indisputably the same does not find place in either the
 revenue-sharing or tariff fixation provisions and around which
 arguments were principally centered. It is these complexities which led Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 185 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 to the members of the Arbitral Tribunal resorting to principles
 pertaining to interpretation of contracts to act as a guide. 184. The Presiding Arbitrator opined that the general rules of
 interpretation are liable to be invoked only in cases where the terms of
 the contract are found to suffer from ambiguity, vagueness or where the
 word may be found susceptible to be ascribed more than one meaning.
 The Presiding Arbitrator thus appears to have adopted the strict rule of
 interpretation and given precedence to the adoption of a particular word
 or expression in the contract as opposed to courts embarking upon an
 exercise of discerning the real intent of parties. However, the Presiding
 Arbitrator, while propounding those tests also observes that the tests of
 true meaning and intention of parties are liable to be invoked to avoid
 absurdity, inconsistency and for the clauses of the contract ―to make
 business sense‖. From amongst the host of authorities which were
 considered by the Presiding Arbitrator, of significance are the following
 principles which were culled out by Lord Hoffman in Investors
 Compensation Scheme Limited vs. West Bromwich Building
 Society33: Subject to the requirement that it should have been reasonably
 available to the parties and to the exception to be mentioned next, it
 includes absolutely anything which would have affected the way in 33 [1998] 1 WLR 896 HL. which the language of the document would have been understood
 by a reasonable man. (3) The law excludes from the admissible background the previous
 negotiations of the parties and their declarations of subjective
 intent. They are admissible only in an action for rectification. The
 law makes this distinction for reasons of practical policy and, in
 this respect only. legal interpretation differs from the way we would
 interpret utterances in ordinary life. The boundaries of this
 exception are in some respects unclear. But this is not the occasion
 on which to explore them. (4) The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would
 convey to a reasonable man is not the same thing as the meaning of
 its words. The meaning of words is a matter of dictionaries and
 grammars; the meaning of the document is what the parties using
 those words against the relevant background would reasonably
 have been understood to mean. The background may not merely
 enable the reasonable man to choose between the possible
 meanings of words which are ambiguous but even (as occasionally
 happens in ordinary life) to conclude that the parties must, for
 whatever reason, have used the wrong words or syntax. (see
 Mannai Investments Co Ltd v Eagle Star Life Assurance Co Ltd
 [1997] 2 WLR 945
 (5) The "rule" that words should be given their "natural and
 ordinary meaning" reflects the common sense proposition that we
 do not easily accept that people have made linguistic mistakes,
 particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would
 nevertheless conclude from the background that something must
 have gone wrong with the language, the law does not require
 judges to attribute to the parties an intention which they plainly
 could not have had. Lord Diplock made this point more vigorously
 when he said in The Antaios Campania Neviera SA v Salen
 Rederierna AB [ 1985] 1 AC 1910 201: 185. The principal takeaways from the aforementioned principles are
 the ascertainment of the meaning from the point of view of the
 reasonable person, the background not being restricted to the ―matrix of
 fact‖ but extending to any facet which could be said to impact the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 187 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 understanding and comprehension of the contractual terms by a
 reasonable person. Of significance is Principle 4 and which bids courts
 to bear in mind that while interpreting contracts, we should not be
 overly bound by lexicons and grammar and the surer test being of
 discerning the meaning of a particular word or term as would have been
 understood by the parties to the contract. 186. Of equal significance were the principles enunciated by our
 Supreme Court in DLF Universal Ltd. Vs. Town and Country
 Planning Deptt.34, a decision noticed by the Presiding Arbitrator, and
 which succinctly explains the importance of purposive interpretation of
 commercial contracts in the following words: 187. As was explained by the Supreme Court in DLF Universal, the
 primary test of interpretation of contracts is of ascertainment of purpose
 and objective on the basis of which parties formed the contract. The
 decision thus reiterates the well-settled principle of courts not being
 bound by the mere letter or the word forming part of the contract.
 Courts would, in the course of such an interpretative analysis and while 34 (2010) 14 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 188 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 determining the meaning to be ascribed to a word or a clause of the
 contract accord pre-eminence upon the context and meaning which the
 parties sought to confer rather than resorting to lexicological aids. 188. The view taken by the Co-Arbitrators, on the other hand,
 proceeds on a broader and a cumulative consideration of the legislative
 objective underlying the introduction of Section 12-A in the AAI Act ,
 the envisaged commercial enterprise which both parties agreed to
 undertake, a balancing of the obligation to fund and create assets and
 infrastructure and thus the concomitant requirement of funding those
 investments and earning a reasonable return. The view taken by the
 Majority primarily proceeds on the basis of a conjoint reading of the
 Project Agreements, commercial pragmatism and the rule of business
 efficacy. It is pertinent to note that the Presiding Arbitrator had in this
 respect taken a diametrically opposite view when it held that the SSA
 could not guide or regulate the OMDA provisions. 189. The Co-Arbitrators further held that, and this attains some
 significance, both parties appear to have proceeded on a mistaken
 premise and misconstrued the OMDA. The aspect of mistake also finds
 resonance in the opinion of the Presiding Arbitrator, albeit in the
 context of electricity charges and other exclusions, from ―Revenue‖ as
 defined. The panel of arbitrators thus appear to have found
 unanimously that both sides clearly appeared to have misconstrued the
 terms of the contract. Faced with such a situation, while the Presiding
 Arbitrator chose to adhere to the stricter and more traditional rules of
 interpretation, the Co-Arbitrators adopted the route of business efficacy
 and a consideration of the larger contractual bargain as emerging from a
 conjoint reading of the Project Agreements. It is this foundational Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 189 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 distinction which appears to inform the views which were ultimately
 expressed by the panel of arbitrators. 190. While we have taken note of the views expressed by the panel of
 arbitrators including the minority opinion which was rendered we
 remain conscious of the legal position that even though individual
 members of an arbitral tribunal may render dissenting opinions, this
 does not affect the finality of the majority award or its status as an
 ―award‖. The dissent merely reflects the personal disagreement of the
 arbitrator with the conclusions reached by the majority. Moreover, the
 dissenting award does not constitute an enforceable award and the
 majority award alone being considered valid for execution. In this
 regard, the following extracts from Gary B. Born's International
 Commercial Arbitration35, would be of relevance: 191. On the subject of interpretation of contracts and before we
 proceed further to evaluate the rival submissions which were addressed,
 we deem it apposite to take note of the following illuminating and
 instructive passages which appear in a decision handed down by the
 Court of Appeal in Crema vs. Cenkos Securities plc36. While
 evaluating the subject of when and how a court would imply a term in a
 contract, the Court of Appeal in Crema renders the following pertinent
 observations: 192. Although in Crema, the contract was partly oral and a component
 thereof reduced in writing, the Court of Appeal observed that the
 principles which were culled out and noticed above would govern the
 subject of interpretation even in respect of such contracts. This becomes Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 192 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 evident from a reading of Paras 40 and 41 of the report which are
 reproduced hereinbelow: 193. In the considered opinion of this Court, faced with a situation
 where the word ―Revenue‖ was not independently deployed or utilized,
 the Co-Arbitrators were clearly justified in proceeding to analyze and
 search for the underlying intent of parties when they penned the
 contract. The Court is cognizant of the fact that the term ―Revenue‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 193 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 appears in the definition section of the OMDA, and thus adequate
 weight being liable to be accorded to that covenant in the contract. Sir
 Kim Lewison, in his work titled The Interpretation of Contracts37,
 highlighted the importance of definition clauses in the following words: 194. However, of equal import are the following observations which
 appear in that work, and which explain the interplay between a
 definition clause and operative parts of a contract: Taking the judgment as a whole, I see Jacob L.J. doing
 nothing more than construing the relevant Transfer in
 accordance with the principles I have identified above, albeit
 against the background that strong and cogent reasons must be
 advanced as to why a definition in a professionally prepared
 document should be departed from or given in different places
 alternative meanings. I do not see Jacob L.J. establishing any
 point of law to the effect that only commercial absurdity
 would suffice for departure, as a question of construction,
 from a specific definition. I am fortified in reaching this
 conclusion not merely by the terms of Jacob L.J.'s judgment
 as a whole but, also, from the whole basis of the approach to
 issues of construction as identified by Lord Hoffmann in West
 Bromwich (at 912G) where he indicated that, under the
 modern approach, ‗Almost all the old intellectual baggage of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 196 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 ―legal‖ interpretation has been discarded'. The modern
 approach to construction involves an interpretation of meaning
 applying the principles I have identified above, not an
 approach which is governed in respect of specific issues or
 instances by fixed rules of law.‖
 In the result he held that a covenant in a conveyance not to erect
 buildings except with the consent of ―the Vendor‖ means the
 original vendor alone and did not extend to her successors in title.
 Similarly, in Starlight Shipping Co v Allianz Marine And Aviation
 Versicherungs AG, Flaux J was doubtful whether the approach of
 Jabob LJ was consistent with the decision of the Supreme Court in
 Rainy Sky v Kookmin Bank. 5.100 In Europa Plus SCA SIF v Anthracite Investments (Ireland)
 Plc Popplewell J said: refundable and one-time payment. The second stream of recurring
 revenue was the Annual Fee. The Annual Fee was stipulated to be
 45.99% (for DIAL) and 38.7% (for MIAL) of the ‗projected Revenue'
 and was payable on the first day of each calendar month. The ‗projected
 Revenue' was additionally made subject to the reconciliation exercise
 which was to be undertaken by the Independent Auditor. 196. We thus find that although OMDA chose to define the word
 ―Revenue‖, that expression was not employed independently in the
 latter parts of the contract. This assumes significance since the aspect of
 shareable revenue and the tariff which the operator could impose in
 respect of Aeronautical Services came to be governed solely by
 Chapters XI and XII of the OMDA. The general obligations which
 stood placed upon the JVC by OMDA envisaged it taking appropriate
 steps towards development, design, construction, upgradation,
 modernizing, financing and management of the airport. It was placed
 under the obligation to ensure that the airport met the standards of an
 international world-class airport. Article 8.2 of the OMDA mandated
 the JVC to undertake Mandatory Capital Projects, details whereof were
 set out in Schedule 7. Additionally, the Master Plan, as noticed
 hereinabove, was to be prepared to cover development activities
 planned and spread over a twenty-year time period. This required the
 JVC to submit details of land development, traffic forecasts, draw out
 the vision of the airport and submit a futuristic plan embodying the
 various activities connected with the development and modernizing
 measures which were to be taken over a twenty-year period. Hence, the
 OMDA placed significant capital-intensive obligations upon
 DIAL/MIAL. 197. The OMDA further obliged the JVC to provide Aeronautical
 Services, Non-Aeronautical Services and Essential Services. The
 Essential Services were to be provided free of charge to all passengers
 visiting the airport. The terms of the OMDA further empowered the
 JVC to fix the charges leviable for the provision of Non-Aeronautical
 Services which were specified in Schedule 6 of the OMDA. Insofar as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 199 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 the charges for those services were concerned, the JVC was left free to
 determine those charges. Insofar as Aeronautical Services were
 concerned, they were indelibly connected to the obligation of the JVC
 to create Aeronautical Assets. and in lieu of such activities, being
 enabled to levy and collect Aeronautical Charges. OMDA itself
 envisaged the levy of Aeronautical Charges as being the consideration
 for the provision of Aeronautical Services and the recovery of ‗costs
 relating to Aeronautical Assets'. Thus, the right conferred upon the JVC
 to recover the costs incurred in the creation of Aeronautical Assets
 could have neither been ignored nor could the import thereof been
 doubted. A covenant which enables a party to recover costs incurred
 cannot derogate from the creation of assets and infrastructure in terms
 of overarching contractual obligations. 198. It cannot possibly be doubted that the levy of Aeronautical
 Charges was subject to the regulatory authority of the AERA under the
 SSA and Chapter XII of the OMDA and contemplating recompense for
 the creation of Aeronautical Assets. The expression ―Project
 Agreements‖ was compendiously defined to include the nine primary
 agreements which formed the foundation for the handover of the airport
 to the JVC. It would thus be fundamentally erroneous for us to exclude
 from consideration the interplay which the OMDA itself acknowledged
 between the said primary contract document and the SSA. As we
 proceed to the SSA, we find an unambiguous recital in the introductory
 parts of the said agreement, and which establishes beyond a measure of
 doubt, that the same was being executed in consideration of the JVC
 having entered into the OMDA. Of significance was the use of the
 expression ―to enhance the smooth functioning and viability‖ of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 200 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 JVC in the introductory provisions of the SSA. The Union thus appears
 to have been aware and conscious of the support which was liable to be
 extended in order to lend strength to the JVC, add to its viability and
 the larger objective of modernizing existing airports and thus assisting
 the JVC in attaining global standards and the said objective constituting
 one of the primary objectives underlying the execution of the SSA. 199. The Aeronautical Charges, as mentioned in Clause 3.1.2 of the
 SSA, were to be calculated in accordance with Schedule 6 of that
 agreement. The said covenant further clarified that Aeronautical
 Charges were liable to be determined in accordance with the principles
 set out in Schedule 1 and the factors enumerated therein being non-
 negotiable and unalterable upon the culmination of the bidding process
 and identification of a successful bidder. 200. Schedules 1 and 6 of the SSA are of significant import since they
 were intended to guide and regulate parties with respect to the
 principles that would have to be borne in mind for the purposes of
 fixation of Aeronautical Charges. Some of those principles were
 declared to be incentive-based, commercial, economic efficiency and
 pricing responsibility. Of the aforenoted fundamental principles which
 were ordained to regulate the fixation of tariff, the incentives-based
 principle promised that the JVC would be provided with appropriate
 incentives so as to enable it to work efficiently, optimize operating
 costs, maximize revenue and undertake investments in an efficient,
 effective and timely manner. The commercial principle embodied in
 Schedule 1 of the SSA enjoined AERA to have regard to the imperative
 of the JVC being able to generate sufficient revenue to attain efficient
 operating costs, a return of capital over its economic life and achieve a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 201 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 reasonable return on investment. The economic efficiency principle
 postulated that the AERA would undertake the exercise of pricing
 regulation bearing in mind the need to encourage economic efficiency
 and to ensure that only efficient costs were recovered through pricing.
 The guidelines for determination of Aeronautical Charges were
 thereafter spelt out in Schedule 6. These provisions embodied in the
 SSA would invariably have to dovetail with Chapter XII of the OMDA
 since shareable revenue was dependent upon the levy and collection of
 Aeronautical Charges itself. 201. The Presiding Arbitrator, however, came to the conclusion that
 the percentage of ‗projected Revenue' which was spoken of in Chapter
 XI while dealing with the subject of Annual Fee, would have to be read
 as being connected with ―Revenue‖ as defined in Chapter I of the
 OMDA. It thus appears to have taken the view that the phrase
 ―projected Revenue‖ would have to necessarily draw colour from the
 definition clause of the OMDA. This becomes evident from a reading
 of Para 80 of the Minority View which is extracted hereunder: 202. The Presiding Arbitrator continued along this line of reasoning
 and held that ―Revenue‖, as that term appears in Chapter XI, would
 continue to control and since exclusions stood duly enumerated, no Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 202 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 further additions thereto could be made. This becomes evident from a
 reading of Paras 88 to 91 which are reproduced hereunder: 89. The definition of the term "Revenue" uses the words "Revenue
 means all pre-tax gross revenue of JVC excluding .... ". The
 definition is thus self-contained and exhaustive. What are to be
 included and what are to be excluded are specifically stated in the
 definition. The definition is clear and ambiguous. Further, the use
 of the word 'all' before 'pre-tax gross revenue of JVC' and use of
 the words 'excluding the following' after "pre-tax gross revenue of
 JVC" would indicate that each and every revenue receipt, should be
 included in the "pre-tax gross revenue" and the only items are to be
 excluded from the "pre-tax gross revenue" are the five items
 enumerated in the definition. 90. Therefore, necessarily the ordinary and normal meaning of the
 words used is to be taken as what the parties meant and intended.
 Even if the object of the contract is taken note of and even if the
 entire contract is considered as a whole, no meaning other than the
 natural and ordinary meaning of the phrase "pre-tax gross revenue" 91. The following items enumerated as amounts to be deducted
 from the "pre-tax gross revenue" to arrive at "Revenue" also give
 an indication as to why the term "pre-tax gross revenue" used by
 the Parties in the definition of "Revenue" literally means only the
 "pre-tax gross revenue": The enumeration of five items to be excluded shows that the "pre-
 tax gross revenue" refers to total receipts by way of Aeronautical
 Services, Non- Aeronautical Services and other income. It is also
 significant that the parties used the term "all pre-tax gross revenue" The term "Revenue" is used in Article 11.1.2 more than 25 times
 and bear the same meaning as contained in the definition of
 "Revenue". The effect of decision in Vanguard is that if the term
 "Revenue" has been used elsewhere in the contract in a different
 context and different background not related to calculation of
 Annual Fee, it may be possible to give a contextual meaning or the
 ordinary and natural meaning of the word "Revenue". Even where
 the definition of a word commences with the words 'unless the
 context otherwise requires', it is only where a contrary intention
 appears from the context, that the definition of the word can be
 given a go-bye and the word understood as in common parlance.
 But, the contention of DIAL is completely different. It is not the
 contention that the term "Revenue" used elsewhere in the contract
 in a different context should be interpreted differently. The
 contention of DIAL is that the definition itself should be differently
 read for the purpose of calculating the Annual Fee. This is
 impermissible. xxxx xxxx xxxx 103. Thus, the use of the words 'unless the context otherwise
 requires', preceding the definition of the term "Revenue", do not
 enable addition of two completely new exceptions to the "all pre-
 tax gross revenue" in the definition of "Revenue".‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 205 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 205. The Presiding Arbitrator while proceeding along that line of
 reasoning, ultimately came to reject the argument of harmonious
 construction by observing thus: tax gross revenue' is after deduction of capital costs (i.e.,
 depreciation, interest on debt and return on equity), then a
 combined reading of Chapter XII of OMDA with the provisions of
 the SSA, would make the said position clear. It is submitted that
 Article 12.1.1 of OMDA and Clause 1.1 of SSA define
 'Aeronautical Charges' as the charges to be levied at the Airport by
 JVC for the provision of Aeronautical Services and consequent
 recovery of costs relating to Aeronautical Assets. Article 12.1.2 of
 OMDA provides that the JVC shall at all times ensure that the
 Aeronautical Charges levied at the Airport shall be as determined
 as per the provisions of the SSA. Clause 3 of SSA lists the support
 to be provided by the Government of India (GoI) to DIAL. Under
 Clause 3.1.1 of SSA, Gol agreed to use reasonable efforts to have
 the Airport Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) established
 and operating within two years. Under the said clause, and agreed
 and confirmed that: Schedule I provides that in AERA while undertaking the role of
 approving Aero Tariff, will provide DIAL with appropriate
 incentives to operate in an efficient manner maximising "Revenue"
 and optimising operating costs, by utilising the price cap
 methodology; and that in setting the price cap AERA will have
 regard to the need for DIAL to generate sufficient revenue to cover
 efficient operating cost, obtain the return of capital over its Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 208 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 economic life and achieve a reasonable return on investment
 commensurate with the risk involved. The provisions of SSA relied
 upon by DIAL (Clause 3.1.1 read with Schedule 1 commercial
 principles 1 and 2) have nothing to do with the revenue-sharing
 arrangement agreed between AAI and DIAL under the OMDA.
 The relied-upon provisions of SSA merely ensures that while
 determining/approving the tariff (i.e., the charges to be levied at the
 Airport by DIAL for providing Aeronautical Services and
 consequent recovery of costs relating to Aeronautical Assets,
 referred to as Aeronautical Charges), AERA will adopt a price cap
 methodology that would ensure generation of sufficient revenue by
 DIAL to cover not only efficient operating cost but also ensure that
 DIAL obtains the return of capital over its economic life
 (depreciation) and achieves a reasonable return on investment
 commensurate with the risk involved (i.e., interest on debt and
 return on equity). 111. Therefore, the scheme of OMDA and the project agreements
 is: (i) The payment of consideration by way of "Annual Fee" by
 DIAL to AAI for the grant of the exclusive right to operate,
 manage and develop the Delhi Airport (i.e., Grant of Function by
 AAI to DIAL) is governed by Chapter XI of the OMDA. (ii) The
 money to be earned by DIAL by providing Aeronautical Services
 through the development, operation and management of the Airport
 (to cover the operating costs, depreciation, interest on debt and
 return on equity) is governed by Chapter XII of the OMDA read
 with Clause 3.1.1, Schedule I and other provisions of SSA.
 Recovery of Capital Costs (depreciation, interest on debt and return
 on equity) is related to and provided for in tariff fixation. Capital
 Costs or recovery thereof have no role to play in determination and
 payment of Annual Fee by DIAL to AAI.‖ 206. The correctness of the view so expressed clearly appears to be
 tenuous and may not possibly sustain when one bears in consideration
 that OMDA constituted one out of the umbrella of agreements which
 came to be executed inter partes and constituted a composite package
 concerned with the modernization of the airports in question. Insofar as
 reference to the terms of the SSA was concerned and the meaning liable
 to be ascribed to ‗Revenue', the Presiding Arbitrator, in our considered
 opinion, clearly erred in holding that the OMDA was liable to be
 interpreted in isolation. The view so taken clearly failed to bear in
 consideration the indubitable fact that the grant represented the first Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 209 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 initiative for infusion of equity and takeover of airports by a private
 entity. The initiative thus represented a paradigm shift in the aviation
 sector and thus compelled the Union Government itself to step in to
 provide a degree of comfort and support to any party which chose to
 enter the fray. In the considered opinion of the Court, the test of
 shareable revenue which came to be ultimately adopted by the Majority
 clearly appeals to reason and was correctly identified as assuming a
 position of centrality and crucial to the resolution of the dispute which
 stood raised. There thus arose an imperative necessity to harmoniously
 interpret the different clauses of the OMDA alongside the Project
 Agreements. This necessitated a harmonious reading of the defining
 provision alongside the covenants governing revenue sharing. 207. The Majority has correctly borne in consideration the status and
 position of AAI and which apart from being entitled to the two streams
 of revenue, namely, Upfront Fee and Annual Fee, was also a JV partner
 and held a substantial stake of 26% in the JVCs'. This was therefore not
 a case where the interests of the AAI stood confined to the fees payable
 in terms of Chapter XI. It was indelibly connected with and a
 significant stakeholder in the JVC and thus entitled to partake in the
 revenue and profitability of the operator as a whole. Thus, apart from
 the guaranteed streams of revenue, the earnings would inevitably
 endure to the benefit of an entity in which AAI held a considerable
 stake. 208. This would be an appropriate juncture to take note of the view
 that was expressed by the Co-Arbitrators on the aspect of ‗Revenue'
 and Chapter XI. The Co-Arbitrators first took into consideration the
 legislative changes brought about in the AAI Act and culminating in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 210 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 passing of the 2003 Amendment Act and which had introduced Section
 12-A. They held that the gross receipts credited to the Profit & Loss
 account of the JVC could not be countered or taken into consideration
 for the purposes of quantifying sharable revenue. This, according to the
 Co-Arbitrators would militate against the commercial principles
 underlying the contract. 209. Taking note of the scope of the Grant itself, the Co-Arbitrators
 bore in consideration the right conferred upon the JVC to determine,
 demand, collect and appropriate charges from the users of the airport.
 In the opinion of the Court, the Co-Arbitrators correctly identified the
 principal streams of ‗Revenue' relevant for the purposes of computing
 sharable revenue. The Majority Opinion essentially proceeds on the
 precept of the commercial principles embodied in the SSA, the
 contractual obligations placed upon the JVC and the imperatives of a
 conjoint reading of the Project Agreements. This becomes apparent
 from a reading of the following observations which appear in Para 24
 of the Majority Opinion: 210. On the basis of an interpretive exercise of the family of
 agreements, the Majority held that since the operator stood placed
 under an overarching obligation to create infrastructure and assets as
 well as rendering Aeronautical and Non-Aeronautical Services, the
 same would clearly entail the creation of facilities and assets which
 would necessarily have to be funded through equity infusion or funds
 borrowed by the JVCs from financial institutions. It was in the
 aforesaid backdrop that they proceeded to hold as follows: Aeronautical, etc. We have already taken note of the fact that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 212 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 need to employ funds does not stop with the creation of Assets.
 Funds are required throughout the subsistence of OMDA to full fill
 the obligations undertaken by JVC. 33. Various CHARGES that can be collected by JVC are mentioned
 in Article 12.1 of OMDA. They are (i) Aeronautical Charges (ii)charges for Non-Aeronautical Services and (iii) Passengers
 Service Fee. The expression 'Aeronautical Charges' is defined
 under Article 1.1 of OMDA. The other two expressions mentioned
 above are not defined. Article 12.1 provides for the
 method/procedure for determination of the scale of various
 CHARGES and the matters incidental thereto. Article 12.1.2
 declares that the Aeronautical Charges shall be determined as per
 the provisions of the SSA. Article 12.2 declares that JVC shall be
 free to fix the charges for Non-Aeronautical Services. Coming to
 the Passengers Service Fee, Article 12.4.1 declares that such Fee
 shall be collected and disbursed in accordance with the provisions
 of the SSA. Obviously, from the language of Article 2.1.2, such
 Charges could be collected by JVC only from the users of the
 property (Airport) for the services rendered by JVC. 34. Aeronautical Charges are the charges which JVC can collect for
 providing "Aeronautical Services" numbering 32, enumerated in
 Schedule 5 to OMDA. Similarly JVC is authorised to collect
 charges for rendering "Non-Aeronautical Services" numbering 35,
 enumerated in Schedule 6 to OMDA. 35. It is apparent from the scheme of OMDA discussed so far that
 the demised property is the property over which the Delhi Airport
 exists. It vested in AAI and was being operated by AAI prior to
 OMDA. That property was leased under the LEASE DEED dated
 25.04.2006 to JVC to enable it to exercise the Rights and perform
 the obligations arising out of the GRANT made under OMDA. The legal relationship arising out of the OMDA and other
 Project Agreements is designed to promote and operate an efficient
 commercial enterprise i.e. in the interest of BETTER
 MANAGEMENT OF THE AIRPORT (see Preamble to OMDA). If
 JVC - a commercial enterprise is required to invest huge amounts
 of funds ( either from it's capital or borrowed)for fulfilling various
 obligations incurred by it under OMDA.Necessarily JVC will have
 to recover sufficient amounts in order to discharge IT's legal
 obligations to the lending Financial Institutions, etc. and IT's
 shareholders. It is in recognition of the fact that JVC is required to
 meet the above financial obligations to its lenders and shareholders; OMDA expressly confers necessary authority and right in favour of
 JVC to collect various CHARGES and Fees.‖ 211. It is the aforesaid view which forms the central theme of the
 Majority Opinion. Insofar as the significance of Chapter XII of the
 OMDA is concerned and the factor of recovery of costs which stands
 embodied therein, the Co-Arbitrators held: OMDA clearly recognises under Article 12.1.1 that the provision of
 such Aeronautical Services require creation, operation and
 maintenance of certain Aeronautical Assets. Therefore, Article
 12.1.1 stipulates in express terms that the Aeronautical charges are
 meant to enable JVC to recover costs relating to aeronautical
 assets. The language is very significant. The purpose of collecting
 Aeronautical Charges is not to recover the costs of the creation of
 Aeronautical Assets alone. The purpose is to recover the costs
 RELATING TO Aeronautical Assets. Normally, it can only mean
 ALL the expenditure incurred by the JVC in relation to the
 AERONAUTICAL ASSETS. Therefore, the expression should
 comprehend not only the costs incurred by the JVC for the creation
 of Aeronautical Assets but also for the costs for the maintenance,
 up-gradation of the Aeronautical Assets and providing various
 Aeronautical Services (specified in Schedule 5 to OMDA) but also
 the costs for securing and retaining the right to perform the
 AERONAUTICAL SERVICES i.e. the Upfront Fee and the Annual
 Fee.‖ 212. What appears to have weighed ultimately upon the Co-
 Arbitrators was the definition of ―Revenue‖ excluding Upfront Fee and
 Annual Fee from consideration since those were specifically identified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 214 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 as non-excludable. The opinion of the Majority also rested on the
 financial projections which would necessarily stand embodied in the
 Business Plans. This becomes evident from a reading of Para 43 and
 where the following pertinent observations came to be made: Apparently the JVC fell into error by declaring in the BUSINESS
 PLANS submitted for successive years that all Cash Received by it
 to be its 'SHARABLE REVENUE'. Obviously it happened because
 the JVC followed the accounting practices applicable to the
 Companies registered under the Companies Act , (as required under
 sec 211 read with part 11 of the companies act) in preparing the
 annual Profit & Loss Statement without clearly analysing and
 understanding its RIGHTS flowing from the SCHEME and TEXT
 of OMDA. JVC failed to distinguish between the accounting
 practice of identifying the REVENUE for the purpose of preparing
 the annual PROFIT & LOSS Statement of JVC as required under
 the Companies Act and the need to identify 'PROJECTED
 REVENUE' for the purpose of sharing the same with AAI. It must
 be remembered that the obligation of JVC under Article 11.1.2.1 is
 to share only 45.99% of the 'PROJECTED REVENUE' but not the
 'Revenue' as understood in the accounting parlance. The JVC while
 making the 'FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS' ought to have clearly
 identified its 'Projected Revenue' for the purpose of sharing with
 AAI after excluding the amounts necessary for RECOVERING the
 COSTS RELATING TO THE AERONAUTICAL ASSETS which
 includes the amount needed for discharging its obligations towards
 repayment of the installments of borrowed capital and the interest
 thereon. They are outstanding legal liabilities owed to the third
 parties such as banks and other financial institutions. In our Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 215 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 opinion, in law, JVC would be perfectly justified in making such a
 Financial Projection. If all the cash receipts of the JVC are to be
 shared with the AAI, there is no purpose in the stipulation under
 Article 11.1.2.1 that
 Annual Fee= 45.99% of Projected Revenue for the said year where
 Projected Revenue for each year shall be set forth in the Business
 Plan". If the submission of AAI that all the cash received by JVC
 is required to be shared with AAI is right, it would have sufficed to
 state in Article 11.1.2.1 that Annual Fee = 45.99% of the
 REVENUE. However, both JVC and AAI proceeded on the
 mistaken understanding that the Annual Fee payable by JVC is
 45.99% of the "Revenue" as defined under OMDA. Therefore, according to AAI, the entire pre-tax gross
 revenue i.e. all the money received by JVC from whatever source
 (for the sake of convenience hereafter referred to as 'RECEIPTS')
 unless anyone of those receipts falls under one of the five Heads of
 the excluded classes of financial transactions, enumerated in the
 definition of the expression 'Revenue' is liable to be taken into
 consideration for the purpose of sharing 45.99% thereof towards
 the Annual Fee.‖ 213. It was on an overall consideration of the above that the Co-
 Arbitrators came to the following conclusion: Number of decisions are cited on either side in support of
 their respective submissions as to the construction of expression
 'Revenue' and 'Pre-Tax Gross Revenue' occurring in the definition of
 the expression 'Revenue'. Those decisions are elaborately discussed
 by the learned Presiding Arbitrator. AAI's submission proceeded on the basis that what is
 sharable by the JVC is the total 'Pre-Tax Gross Revenue'. AAI for the
 said purpose relied on two American decisions in Public Service Vs.
 Denver- 387 P.ED 33 (Colo.1963) and Lane Electric Cooperative
 Inc. v. Department of Revenue - 765 P.2D 1237 (Or.1988). These two
 decisions deal with the construction of expression 'Gross Revenue'
 and 'All Gross Revenue'. Relying on them, AAI argued that the
 definition of the expression 'Revenue under OMDA cannot be read
 countenance to any limitations other than those expressly mentioned
 in the definition by resorting some undefined concept of commercial
 sense, as argued by JVC. Reliance is also sought to be placed on the judgment of
 Supreme Court in reported in 2018 (3) SCC 716- Transmission
 Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Vs,. GMR Vemagiri Power
 Generation Ltd. In our opinion, the said judgment would support the
 argument of JVC than the submission of AAI. At paragraph 26 of the
 said judgment, the Supreme Court recognized the possibility of
 interpreting a commercial document in a manner to arrive at a
 conclusion which is at complete variance what may originally the
 intendment of the parties and such a situation can only be
 contemplated when the implied terms can be considered to lend
 efficacy to the terms of contract. Insofar as it is relevant for our
 purpose, reads as follows: 214. The significance of the 2003 Amendment Act and the execution
 of OMDA and the SSA were aspects which were re-emphasized by the
 Co-Arbitrators in Paras 52 and 53: Such a destruction is a consequence of the imposition of a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 219 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 limitation under SSA on the substantive right of JVC by
 excluding certain relevant elements from consideration for
 determining Aeronautical Charges (that can be collected by
 JVC) without actually amending Article 2.1.2(iii) and Article
 12.1.1 of OMDA. Therefore, the rights under the said Article
 would by necessary implication become a limitation on the
 amplitude of the expression 'PROJECTED REVENUE' and
 (an important factor in ascertaining the true meaning of the
 expression PROJECTED REVENUE). Such an implication
 has to be legally read into OMDA. It is a permissible way of
 construing the contract as pointed by the Supreme Court in Khardah Company Ltd. Vs. Raymon & Co. (India) Pvt. Ltd. ,
 (1963) SCR (3) 183: 220. The Presiding Arbitrator took the view that neither OMDA nor
 any of the Project Agreements restricted ‗Revenue' to earnings from
 Aeronautical and Non-Aeronautical Services. It opined that this income
 cannot be said to be independent of the operation of the airport. The
 Presiding Arbitrator took the position that but for the Grant, neither
 DIAL nor MIAL would have been enabled to earn other income. In
 view of the above, it ultimately came to conclude that ‗Other Income'
 as classified and projected cannot be excluded from the scope of
 Chapter XI. 221. The opinion so formed also rested on the decisions rendered by
 the Supreme Court in AUSPI-I and AUSPI-II. This becomes apparent
 from a reading of the following portion of the opinion of the Minority
 and which is extracted hereinbelow: 145. In AUSPI-Il, the Supreme Court again considered the term
 'adjusted gross revenue' used in the Telecom Licence Agreement and
 held as under while reiterating what was held in AUSPI-I (vide paras
 64, 65 and 66): 146. The decisions in AUSPI-1 and AUSPI-11 dealt with the
 question of what constitutes shareable gross revenue in respect of
 telecom licences granted by Government of India to telecom service
 providers. The principles laid down by the Supreme Court while
 considering whether other income, that is, income other than
 telecom services, has to be considered as part of the gross revenue to
 be shared with the government are equally applicable in regard to
 the transfer of certain functions by AAI under OMDA in favour of
 DIAL.‖ 222. It would be pertinent to briefly pause here and note that both
 AUSPI-I and AUSPI-II were liable to be appreciated bearing in mind
 how the contracts which formed the subject matter of those proceedings
 defined the term ‗gross revenue'. Quite apart from the fact that AUSPI-I
 had already ruled on what would constitute revenue and income
 generated from all activities including those beyond the terms of the
 license, Clause 19.1 of the license agreement significantly employed
 the phrase ―...and any other miscellaneous revenue...‖ being liable to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 225 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 be included in gross revenue. Thus all streams of revenue, no matter
 how far removed from the core business that was undertaken was
 envisaged to be taken into consideration. That is clearly not the position
 which would emerge when one were to undertake a harmonious
 interpretation of the Project Agreements. The reliance placed on those
 two decisions was, thus, clearly misplaced. 223. Insofar as the Co-Arbitrators are concerned, they approached the
 issue of ―Other Income‖ in the following manner. While there was no
 dispute with respect to the identification of the broad heads which
 would fall in the genre of Other Income, the Co-Arbitrators held that
 the amounts received under the aforesaid heads did not flow from any
 right created in favour of DIAL/MIAL under the OMDA or the Project
 Agreements. The submission of AAI that Other Income was also
 fundamentally based on the Grant of an exclusive right and obligation
 came to be negated with the Co-Arbitrators coming to the conclusion
 that neither DIAL nor MIAL were obliged to undertake any of the
 activities which would have led to the earning of Other Income. 224. They observed that it would have been open for the JVC to desist
 from making any investments of surplus cash available in its hands at
 all. They further held that even AAI could not have compelled the JVC
 to undertake any such investment activity. This becomes evident from a
 reading of the following passages forming part of the Majority Opinion: To conclude that the State or its instrumentalities, in exercise of their
 contractual rights could collect money by virtue of some purported
 factual inferences flowing from the contract would be contrary to the
 fundamental limitation on the authority of the State to collect money
 from the citizens/subjects. The reliance sought to be placed on the
 bid documents, which refer to 'other income' for construing the
 scope and ambit of the expression 'Revenue' in the context of the
 'Annual Fee' may not be consistent with the basic principles of
 interpretation of the contracts. Such reliance is impressible even
 under Sec. 92 of the Evidence Act, 1872 Innumerable matters are
 considered and discussed during the course of negotiations of a
 contract. It is much more so in the context of the formation of a
 complicated contract like OMDA. Some of these factors may throw
 some light in understanding the true purport of the terms of contract,
 but they are not determinative or conclusive of the rights and
 obligations arising under the contract. On the other hand, Article 20.3.2(a) of OMDA stipulates: The reliance placed upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in ( i) Union of India Vs. Association of Unified Telecom Service
 Providers of India and Others reported in (2011) 10 SCC 543 and ( ii) Union of India Vs. Association of Unified Telecom Service
 Providers of India and Others reported in (2020) 3 SCC 525 by AAI,
 in our opinion is wholly misplaced. They are cases where the Union of India while granting
 telecom licenses stipulated that license fee payable to be a
 percentage of 'gross revenue' of the licensee. The percentage was
 required to be determined after obtaining recommendations from the
 TRAI. Pending such recommendation, tentatively it was decided by
 the Government of India that 15% of the gross revenue would be
 provisionally collected as license fee. On receipt of TRAI's
 recommendations, the Government took a final decision fixing the
 quantum of the license fee. In the process, Government of India
 came out with the concept of adjusted gross revenue. The expression
 'Gross Revenue' was DEFINED to include inter alia revenue on
 account of interest, dividend, value added services, etc. The legality
 of such inclusive definition was questioned by the licensees. It was
 argued (particularly in relation to the interest income and dividend
 income, etc.,) that only the revenue directly arising out of telecom
 operation for the purpose of determining the license fee can be taken
 into account.‖ 225. The Co-Arbitrators found themselves unable to concur with the
 view expressed by the Presiding Arbitrator in this respect as would be
 evident from a reading of Para 70 and which reads thus: 226. The Court notes that the shareable revenue in terms of Chapter
 XI was liable to be quantified basis the income that the JVC would
 have earned from the charges which it imposed and collected in the
 course of performing and providing Aeronautical and Non-Aeronautical Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 228 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Services. The investment activity which it independently undertook was
 not in discharge of any contractual obligation. The investments which
 the JVC ultimately chose to make was in order to undertake a prudent
 deployment of surplus funds and was clearly a business activity which
 the JVC undertook of its own volition and which was neither guided by
 nor subject to regulation by the OMDA or the other Project
 Agreements. It is here that the expressions Airport Business,
 Aeronautical Services and Non-Aeronautical Services attain critical
 importance. The Co-Arbitrators have principally borne in consideration
 the contractual obligations which stood imposed upon the JVCs to hold
 that income earned independent of ‗Airport Business' could not have
 formed part of shareable revenue. The view so expressed appeals to
 reason and is in any case one which could have possibly been taken on
 a reasonable and plausible interpretation of the contractual terms. The
 said finding, for reasons which are assigned hereinafter, in any case,
 cannot be said to be either manifestly erroneous or suffering from the
 vice of perversity. 227. The Court in this respect additionally bears in mind that the
 investment activity and the income generated therefrom was to
 ultimately benefit the constituents of the JVC itself and which
 necessarily would include AAI. However, it would be clearly erroneous
 to read and interpret Chapters XI or XII as being suggestive of such
 income independently earned and which was wholly unconcerned with
 ‗Airport Business' to be pooled together with Aeronautical and Non-
 Aeronautical Charges for the purposes of computing shareable revenue.
 It is pertinent to note that even the SSA did not take ‗Other Income'
 into account for the purposes of tariff fixation. The Co-Arbitrators thus
 appear to have taken a correct view insofar as this aspect is concerned. In any case, the view as taken cannot possibly be characterized as
 constituting a patent illegality. xii. Payments to Relevant Authorities and receipts for provision of
 electricity, water, sewage, or analogous utilities 228. One of the other issues of disputation was with respect to the
 payments made towards electricity charges, property taxes, and the
 income earned from the sale of capital assets. Insofar as these payments
 are concerned, the panel of arbitrators has unanimously held in favour
 of DIAL/MIAL. Having evaluated the findings so rendered, this Court
 finds no error which may warrant interference with the ultimate
 conclusions rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal when tested on the anvil
 of Section 34 of the Act. xiii. The Role of the Independent Auditor 229. The last aspect of significance was the assertion of the Tribunal
 having delegated an essential adjudicatory function to the Independent
 Auditor. It becomes pertinent to note at the outset that both the
 Presiding Arbitrator as well as the Co-Arbitrator had independently
 arrived at the conclusion that the quantification exercise would have to
 be undertaken by the Independent Auditor. This becomes evident when
 one reads the operative directions as were suggested by the Presiding
 Arbitrator itself: They shall also certify that 45.99% of such amount which has been
 paid in excess as Annual Fee and DIAL will be entitled for credit
 therefor. 252. Even in regard to electricity/power charges paid by DIAL to
 BSES Rajadhani Power Ltd and property taxes paid by DIAL to
 municipal authorities and in regard to sale proceeds of capital
 asset/items for the period 1.10.2018 till date of award, the
 independent auditor shall verify and certify the amounts to be
 deducted under Exclusions (a) and (c) and 45.99% of such amount
 which has been paid in excess as Annual Fee (as was directed in
 regard to the period 30.9.2018 above in the previous paras) and
 DIAL will be entitled for credit therefor.‖ 230. The Co-Arbitrators also came to the conclusion that the exercise
 of computation would be liable to be referred to an expert who could
 undertake a detailed computational exercise on the basis of the material
 existing on the record including the Annual Reports and Returns
 submitted so as to complete the mathematical exercise of identifying
 the amounts liable to be paid to the JVCs' bearing in mind the reliefs
 granted. This becomes evident from a reading of Paras 103 and 104 of
 the opinion of the Majority: JVC is also entitled for a declaration, the amounts falling
 under the above mentioned Heads from 21.06.2015 are liable to be
 excluded from the REVENUE and the amount of 45.99% thereof is
 liable to be refunded after duly ascertaining the quantum after
 appropriate enquiry by the Independent Auditor. The amounts so required to be refunded may be given credit
 to in one or three equal installments at the discretion of the AAI
 while determining the Annual Fee payable by JVC in future. The reliefs granted above are in addition to the reliefs
 granted by the learned Presiding Arbitrator, as mentioned in the
 DA.‖ 231. It was in the aforesaid light that the operative directions, insofar
 as the issue of computation was concerned, were framed in the
 following terms: 232. The issue of computation appears to have arisen earlier also and
 in the course of the arbitral proceedings itself as would be evident from
 some of the Procedural Orders which were passed and are noticed
 hereinbelow. The attention of the Court was invited to the Procedural
 Order dated 29 June 2019 and relevant extracts whereof are reproduced
 hereunder: 233. The Procedural Order dated 13 October 2019 was also brought to
 our attention wherein the Tribunal recorded that it would allow both
 sides to adduce evidence and decide the matter of assigning the
 determination of quantum to an independent accountant/auditor
 thereafter. This is apparent from the following extracts of that order: Parties are not able to reach any consensus in regard to the
 suggestion under discussion. In the absence of any consensus the
 Tribunal is of the view that the matter should be proceeded in the
 normal manner by permitting both parties to adduce evidence and
 decide the matter thereafter.‖ 234. It must at the outset be noted that the exercise of computation has
 not been entrusted to a stranger to the contract. The office of the
 Independent Auditor stands duly recognized in Chapter XI of the
 OMDA itself. It was this very authority which had been regularly
 undertaking a reconciliation of accounts and certifying Revenue for the
 purposes of computation of Annual Fee. Since the Arbitral Tribunal had
 already ruled on all the principal issues which formed the subject matter Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 234 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 of the arbitral proceedings, the only exercise which was left over to be
 undertaken was of computation. Since that exercise would have
 necessarily entailed an authority to delve into the returns and the
 records which existed as well as the examination of financial
 statements, the Arbitral Tribunal appears to have deemed it prudent to
 assign and entrust an authority to undertake that arithmetical exercise. 235. It appears that the Arbitral Tribunal, in the absence of respective
 sides being able to agree upon an independent authority who could be
 entrusted with the task of computation, deemed it appropriate to vest
 that power upon the Independent Auditor who already stood identified
 under the OMDA. 236. The Court finds that the Independent Auditor under the OMDA
 while undertaking the exercise of computation has not been entrusted
 with any essential decision-making power. It is to merely quantify the
 amounts payable to the claimants based upon the findings in the Award
 and the material existing on the record. The Court notes that what the
 law proscribes is the power to make a decision or the arbitral tribunal
 abdicating its obligation to render a judgment on the disputes which
 may be raised. We, in this regard, find the following illuminating
 passages in Russell on Arbitration38 and which would lend credence
 to the procedure as adopted by the Arbitral Tribunal: 237. A learned Judge of our Court while dealing with the issue of
 enforcement of a declaratory award made the following pertinent
 observations in Union of India vs. Reliance Industries Ltd.39 : 2023 SCC OnLine Del 3538 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 237 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 56. To the extent that the petitioner seeks its enforcement in
 execution, there is no dispute about the fact that the 2016 FPA is
 purely declaratory in nature, and does not specifically award a single
 farthing to the petitioner. Can such a purely declaratory award be
 enforced? 57. The issue is vexed. There is no real authoritative pronouncement
 by any Indian court on the issue. Foreign Courts have differed on the
 point. Even in a case where the award was not purely declaratory but
 merely failed to quantify the amount payable thereunder, the
 Queens' Bench Division, through Diplock, LJ., held, in Marguiles
 Brothers Ltd. v. Dafnis Thomaides & Co. (UK) Ltd., that the award
 was not enforceable. The Supreme Court of Victoria, before
 whom Marguiles Brothers was cited, however, distinguished the
 decision on the ground that the award in question in that case was
 uncertain regarding the amount to be paid, and held, in AED Oil
 Ltd. v. Puffin FPSO Ltd., relying on Russell on Arbitration for the
 purpose, that, ―provided the terms of the award are sufficiently clear
 there is now no reason why a declaratory award cannot be enforced
 under section 66‖. 58. The proposition is, however, easier stated than applied. While I
 also subscribe to the view that there is no proscription against
 enforcement of a declaratory award - no such proscription being
 contained in the 1996 Act either - the enforcement would, clearly,
 require the declaration to be practically enforceable. This principle
 would have to be applied keeping in mind the fact that the executing
 Court merely executes; it does not pronounce or adjudicate. The
 executing Court can, therefore, execute only if the award - or decree - is executable, and not otherwise. Mere declarations, which cannot
 be reduced to hard cash cannot, therefore, be executed in terms of
 money. If, however, the declarations are sufficiently explicit as to
 require a mere application of the principles declared to accepted
 facts and figures and application of mere arithmetic to arrive at the
 liability, then the award would probably be executable; but not
 otherwise. Russell, therefore, correctly expressed the principle in the
 passage on which the petitioner itself relies: 59. What would be required, therefore, for a purely declaratory
 award to be executed like a money decree is, therefore, that the
 award must, firstly, identify one of the parties to the dispute as
 entitled to receive a quantifiable sum of money from the other, and,
 secondly, to set out the principles on the basis of which such
 quantification is to be done, so that all that is required to be done by
 the executing Court is application of pure arithmetic.‖ 238. The Court also bears in mind the averments contained in the SoD
 submitted by AAI and which itself had pleaded that the documents
 relevant for ascertainment of ‗actual Revenue' is to be undertaken in
 accordance with the comprehensive contractual machinery for
 computation which stands embodied in Chapter XI as would be evident
 from the following extracts of the SoD: 239. Insofar as the aspect of evidence which may be taken into
 consideration by the Independent Auditor, the Court notes that both
 DIAL and MIAL had submitted that the exercise of computation may
 be undertaken basis the financial statements which had already been
 placed before the Arbitral Tribunal, the business plans and other
 material which already existed on the record. The JVC appears to have
 alluded to the Audit Reports as well as the various Tariff Orders framed
 by AERA as being sufficient for the purposes of the Independent Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 240 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23 Auditor completing the exercise of quantification. It is this material
 which appears to have been borne in consideration and guided the
 Arbitral Tribunal to place the obligation of quantification upon the
 Independent Auditor. This becomes apparent from a reading of Para
 103 of the opinion of the Co-Arbitrators, which has been extracted
 hereinabove. 240. The submission of AAI, therefore, that fresh evidence would
 have to be led and presented before the Independent Auditor or that a
 core decision-making function had been placed upon that authority
 clearly appears to be erroneous. The Court thus, and on an overall
 conspectus of the aforesaid, finds itself unable to sustain the argument
 of abdication or delegation of an essential adjudicatory function. F. CONCLUSION 241. Accordingly and for reasons set out hereinabove, the Court finds
 no ground to interfere with the Awards as rendered. The petitions under Section 34 shall, consequently stand dismissed. YASHWANT VARMA, J. OCTOBER 18, 2024/neha/rw/kk Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed O.M.P. (COMM) 17/2023 & 18/2023 Page 241 of 241 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:18.10.2024 16:01:23