The petitioner filed Complaint Case No.1535(C) of

 2010 before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna against

 Sri Nitish Kumar, the Chief Minister, Government of Bihar, Patna;

 Sri Sushil Kumar Modi, the then Deputy Chief Minister-cum- Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 2 Finance Minister, Govt. of Bihar, Patna; Sri Anup Mukherji, the

 then Chief Secretary, Govt. of Bihar, Patna; Sri R.C.P.Singh, the

 then Principal Secretary to Chief Minister; Sri N.Vijayalakshmi,

 the then Excise Commissioner, Excise Department, Govt. of

 Bihar, Patna; Sri S. Sidhartha, the then Secretary to the Chief

 Minister, Govt. of Bihar, Patna; Colone Balender and Bottlers

 (India) Pvt. Ltd., Patna and its proprietor; M/S K.D. Liquor Pvt.

 Ltd. and its proprietor; M/S Spicy Beverage Pvt. Ltd., Patna City

 and its proprietor; Rawti International and its proprietor, the then

 Finance Commissioner, Govt. of Bihar, Patna; Sri Jitendra Kumar

 Sinha, the then District Magistrate, Patna and the District

 Magistrate, Kaimur for the offences under sections 119, 191, 193,

 467, 468, 471, 469, 420, 120B, 406 and 409 read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code on 5.6.2010. 2. In the aforesaid complaint, it has been alleged that

 the petitioner, who is a social worker was shocked to know the

 contents of the newspaper „Danik Jagran‟ published on 12 th

 February, 2010 relating to scam of rupees five hundred crores to

 one thousand crores in the Excise Department causing huge loss to

 the Government of Bihar. The said news was based on an

 interview of Sri Jamshed Ashraf, the then Excise Minister,

 Government of Bihar. The petitioner has alleged several acts of

 omission and commission against the persons named in the Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 3 complaint. 3. During pendency of the complaint petition before

 the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna, the petitioner filed the present

 writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India praying

 therein for the following reliefs.:- 1000 crores on the basis of material available Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 4 in Complaint Case No. 1535 (C )/2010 and
 Comptroller and Auditor General report for
 the financial year 1st April, 2008 to 31st
 March, 2009 as contained in annexure-3. (C) Also for commanding the respondents to
 recover the amount Rs.500-1000 Crore which
 has been misappropriated and defalcated by
 the person concerned and responsible
 authority who have committed criminal
 negligence and criminal misconduct resulting
 loss of revenue in Excise Department of the
 State of Bihar. (D) And also for necessary order, direction,
 relief for which the petitioner is entitled in the
 eye of law and as well as facts of the case." 4. In paragraph 2, the substantial questions of law

 which are sought to be raised in the writ petition are as follows: 5. It would be relevant to mention here that during

 pendency of the writ petition, the aforesaid complaint filed by the

 petitioner was dismissed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

 Patna on 16th June, 2011 under section 203 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as "the Code").

 Feeling aggrieved by the order passed on 16th June, 2011 by the

 learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna in Complaint Case No.

 1535 (C)/2010, the petitioner preferred revision under section 397

 of the Code bearing Cr.Revision No. 556 of 2011 in the court of

 Sessions Judge, Patna. The learned Sessions Judge, Patna Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 6 transferred the said revision application to the court of Additional

 Sessions Judge-II, Patna. After hearing the parties, the learned

 Additional Sessions Judge, Patna dismissed the revision

 application filed on behalf of the petitioner vide order dated 10th

 October, 2012. 6. After dismissal of the revision, the petitioner filed

 an interlocutory application being I.A. No.1944 of 2012 in the

 present writ petition for adding two more reliefs to the writ

 petition, i.e., for quashing the order dated 16.06.2011 passed by

 the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna in Complaint Case

 No. 1535( C) of 2010 whereby the complaint petition filed by the

 petitioner was dismissed and also for quashing the order dated 10 th

 October, 2012 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-II,

 Patna in Cr. Revision No. 556 of 2011 whereby revision

 application filed by the petitioner challenging the aforesaid order

 passed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna was

 dismissed. 7. Mr. Dinu Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner

 submitted that the allegations made in the complaint disclosed

 commission of a cognizable offence. The huge loss caused to the

 State exchequer and the position commanded by the persons

 involved in the offence warrant an impartial and committed

 investigation by an independent investigating agency like the Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 7 Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as "the

 CBI"). He submitted that recovery of loss of revenue is not

 possible in a criminal case and as such the petitioner is justified in

 filing the present writ petition during pendency of the complaint

 case. He further submitted that there is large scale corruption in

 the Excise Department and when the Minister Incharge

 highlighted the same, he became victim of humiliation by the

 officials of the Department. He raised his voice in press and

 electronic media and highlighted about the high handedness of

 corrupt officials posted in the Excise Department but no action

 was taken by the State government against the officials concerned.

 Learned counsel further contended that liquor policies, grant of

 privileges, relaxation made in the policies and price fixation of

 liquor were made in order to cause loss to the Government

 exchequer with vested interest. 8. On the other hand, Mr. Lalit Kishore, learned

 Principal Additional Advocate General, Bihar, Patna submitted

 that the writ petition is devoid of any merit. According to him, the

 petitioner has filed the writ petition with ulterior motive. He

 submitted that several writ petitions containing the same issue as

 raised by the petitioner were filed before this court by different

 persons in the nature of public interest litigation and all those writ

 petitions were dismissed by different Division Benches of this Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 8 Court. In support of his contention, he has produced copy of the

 order dated 19th April, 2010 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 6657 of 2010;

 order dated 13.01.2010 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 675 of 2010;

 order dated 08.04.2010 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 5287 of 2010;

 order dated 03.03.2010 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 3093 of 2010 and

 the order dated 03.03.2010 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 3442 of 2010. 9. Mr. Bipin Kumar Sinha, learned counsel for the

 CBI also opposed the prayer made on behalf of the petitioner

 seeking investigation of the offence alleged by the CBI. 10. Having heard the parties at length and perused the

 records, I find that the petitioner filed Complaint Case No. 1535

 (C) of 2010 in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna on 5th

 June, 2010. During pendency of the complaint case, he filed

 present writ petition on 18.05.2011 making prayer to direct the

 respondents to register an FIR for investigation by the CBI on the

 basis of materials available in Complaint Case No. 1535 (C) of

 2010. 11. It is well known that a criminal case can be

 launched either by filing a complaint before the court of

 competent jurisdiction under sections 190 and 200 of the Code or

 by filing a report in respect of a cognizable offence in the police

 station under section 154 of the Code. In the present case, the

 petitioner chose to file complaint before the Magistrate in the Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 9 matter. While the complaint was still under inquiry, in my view,

 seeking the nature of relief as prayed for in the present writ

 petition by the petitioner was not justified. The petitioner ought

 not to have drawn parallel proceedings, one before the Magistrate

 and the other before this court. However, I do not intend to

 dismiss the present writ petition on this score alone. 12. The petitioner has brought on record his statement

 recorded on oath under section 200 of the Code in the aforesaid

 complaint case. The statement of four witnesses examined in

 course of inquiry held in the complaint has also been brought on

 record. 13. In order to appreciate the submissions made on

 behalf of the parties, I have perused the evidence collected in

 course of inquiry of the complaint case. I find that in his statement

 on oath, the petitioner stated that on 12th February, 2010 he read

 local Hindi daily "Dainik Jagran". According to him, the whistle

 blower, Mr. Jamshed Ashraf, the Minister Incharge of Excise

 Department was asked to step down from his ministerial berth by

 the Chief Minister. He stated that he met the Minister Incharge

 who told him that a large scale scam had taken place in the Excise

 Department. In reply to Court‟s question, the petitioner stated that

 he was acquainted with the Minister Incharge from before. He

 further stated that he had submitted an application to the Chief Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 10 Minister requesting for the CBI investigation into the alleged scam

 but the Chief Minister did not oblige him. On perusing the

 statement of the petitioner, I find that the petitioner is a hearsay

 witness. He gathered knowledge about the alleged scam from the

 Minister Incharge Jamshed Ashraf, who has been made witness

 no.5 in the complaint case. The other four witnesses examined in

 course of inquiry under section 202 of the Code stated that they

 came to know about the alleged offence from the

 petitioner/complainant and the newspaper report. 14. Thus, apparently, as noted above, the complainant

 had no personal knowledge about the alleged scam. The other

 inquiry witnesses also came to know about the alleged offence

 from the petitioner and the newspaper report. These facts

 demonstrate that the entire complaint was based on vague

 allegations made on the basis of hearsay evidence. 15. It would be pertinent to note here that Mr.

 Jamshed Ashraf, a witness named in the complaint, was not

 examined before the Magistrate in course of inquiry. The

 petitioner had filed an application under section 311 of the Code

 for summoning him to be examined as a complaint witness which

 prayer was dismissed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

 Patna vide order dated 17th February, 2011. I further find that in

 course of inquiry in the complaint case no document was exhibited Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 11 on behalf of the petitioner. 16. I, thus, find that an absolutely vague allegation

 on the basis of some hearsay evidence has been made by the

 petitioner/complainant and his witnesses in the complaint case.

 After an inquiry into the allegations as contained in the complaint,

 the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna after giving

 particulars of the evidence produced in support of complaint went

 on to observe that the complaint was filed as public interest

 litigation on the basis of hearsay evidence. He further held that no

 prima facie evidence was found against any of the persons named

 in the complaint and, thus, dismissed the same under section 203

 of the Code. The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna has

 mentioned the reasons which, in his opinion, justified dismissal of

 the complaint without issue of process. The petitioner then

 invoked the Revisional jurisdiction of the learned Sessions Judge,

 Patna. The Revisional court after looking into the evidence

 collected in course of inquiry and the order of the Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Patna, came to a conclusion that the order of dismissal

 of the complaint under section 203 of the Code was proper. 17. I find that the order of the Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Patna dismissing the complaint under section 203 of

 the Code has been made on judicially sound grounds. The

 evidence led in support of the complaint shows that essential Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 12 ingredients of the offence alleged are either missing or vaguely

 stated on the basis of hearsay evidence. The complaint lacks bona

 fide. Apparently, it seems to be motivated with personal bias.

 There are patent absurdities in the evidence led and, thus, no

 illegality can be found in the order passed by the Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Patna, dismissing the complaint filed by the petitioner

 under section 203 of the Code. 18. In Pepsi Foods Ltd. and another v. Special

 Judicial Magistrate and others since reported in (1998)5 SCC

 749 the Supreme Court observed that the criminal law cannot be

 set in motion by a complainant by examining himself and two

 witnesses, who may dance to the tune of the complainant. Their

 lordships observed that before issuing the process of summoning a

 person to face trial, a Magistrate is required to look into the nature

 of the allegations, the evidence and its character whether oral or

 documentary. The Magistrate is required to see everything and has

 to take part into the proceedings before issuing the process or

 summoning the accused. In the present matter, the said

 observations made by the Supreme Court have correctly been

 applied by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate while passing the

 order. For the same reason no fault can be found with the order

 passed by the Revisional court. 19. I am also of the view that the Revisional order Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 13 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-II, Patna could

 not have been challenged before this court by invoking

 extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of

 India in view of statutory bar prescribed under section 397(3) of

 the Code . 20. In this regard, it would be relevant to quote

 section 397 of the Code, which reads as under.:- section (1) shall not be exercised in relation
 to any interlocutory order passed in any
 appeal, inquiry, trial or other proceeding. (3) If an application under this section has
 been made by any person either to the High
 Court or to the Sessions Judge, no further
 application by the same person shall be
 entertained by the other of them." 21. Ordinarily, when a revision has been barred under

 section 397(3) of the Code, the complainant cannot be allowed to

 take recourse to revision before the High Court under section

 397(1) of the Code as it is prohibited under section 397(3) of the

 Code. In my view, bar of sub section (3) of section 397 of the

 Code is, therefore, effectively attracted in the present case and the

 bar could not be circumvented by invoking jurisdiction of this

 court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 22. The petitioner having availed of the remedy of

 revision under section 397 of the Code is not entitled to maintain

 the present writ petition so far as the reliefs, as prayed for in the

 interlocutory application, are concerned. 23. I have perused the orders passed by this court in

 other writ petitions as noted above preferred by different persons Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 15 in more or less identical matters. In C.W.J.C. No.675 of 2010, the

 petitioners, namely, Humlog Trust through its convener

 Mukesh Kumar Dinkar and Mukesh Kumar Dinkar in his

 personal capacity, had prayed for inquiry into the process of grant

 and allotment of tender for manufacture and sale of country liquor

 by order of allotment dated 21st June, 2009. A Division Bench of

 this court vide order dated 13th January, 2010 dismissed the writ

 petition holding the same to be without merit and also cautioned

 the petitioners to understand the purport of public interest before

 knocking at the doors of the court. Similarly, C.W.J.C. No.3442

 of 2010 filed by one Arvind Kumar Sharma in the same subject

 matter was also dismissed as withdrawn by a Division Bench of

 this court. Another writ petition being C.W.J.C. No.6657 of 2010

 filed by Prabhat Kumar Sinha and Dr. Shambhu Sharan

 Shrivastava in the nature of public interest litigation demanding

 inquiry into the liquor sourcing policy dated 15th September, 2006-

 07 formulated by the Bihar State Beverage Corporation Limited

 fixing an incidental overheads in place of transportation handling,

 insurance, administrative charges of establishment, import/export

 fee, central sales tax etc. and also into the process of finalization

 and allotment of tenders to various parties who applied for

 manufacture and sale of IMFL as well as into the act of permitting

 the parties to sale six lakhs quintal of molasses to the parties Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 16 outside Bihar at a lower rate and subsequently buying back the

 same at higher price for manufacturing sprit by local

 manufacturers was dismissed by a Division Bench of this court

 vide order dated 19.4.2010. In the aforesaid order, the Division

 Bench in paragraph nos. 21 and 22 observed as under.:- 24. As stated, hereinabove, the complaint filed by the

 petitioner lacks bona fide. Several persons have approached this

 court by filing public interest litigations in the same subject matter

 seeking more or less identical reliefs but all those applications

 were dismissed by different Division Benches. In such

 background of the facts, the prayer of the petitioner for directing

 the respondent concerned to register an FIR for investigation by

 the CBI relating to the alleged scam carries no weight. 25. In State of West Bengal and others vs.

 Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal

 and others since reported in (2010)3 SCC 571, a Constitution

 Bench of the Supreme Court considered at length the power of

 High Court to direct investigation by the CBI into a cognizable

 offence alleged to have been committed within the territorial

 jurisdiction of a State and while taking the view that the High

 Court has wide powers under Article 226 of the Constitution

 cautioned that the courts must bear in mind certain self imposed

 limitations. 26. For the sake of convenience, paragraph 70 of the

 decision of the Constitution Bench in State of West Bengal and

 others vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 18 (supra), is extracted hereinbelow.:- 27. It would be apparent from the opinion of the

 Constitution Bench, quoted above, that the power of the High

 Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to direct investigation

 by the CBI is to be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in

 exceptional situations and an order directing the CBI to conduct

 investigation is not to be passed as a matter of routine or merely

 because a party has levelled some vague allegations on the basis

 of newspaper report or hearsay evidence. 28. Taking into consideration the law laid down by

 the Constitution Bench of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court and facts of

 the present case, I am of the considered opinion that though the

 petitioner claims himself to be a watchdog of public money and

 thus wants a CBI investigation in view of alleged scam in public

 affairs but the facts narrated, hereinabove, show that the

 allegations are not only absurd but are also attended with personal

 bias and mala fide. 29. When the petitioner failed to make out even a

 prima facie case before the Magistrate, he has launched a frontal Patna High Court CR. WJC No.565 of 2011 (11) 20 attack on the entire governance system of the State by filing a

 frivolous writ petition. In his desperate attempt, the petitioner is

 blaming everyone while highlighting imaginary loss caused to the

 State exchequer in order to get an order for the CBI investigation

 into the matter. 30. For the reasons assigned, hereinabove, the writ

 petition and I.A. No.1944 of 2012, being devoid of any merit, are

 hereby dismissed. (Ashwani Kumar Singh, J)
Md.S./-