Date : 19-06-2025

 Heard learned counsel Mr. A.B.T. Haque for the petitioner Ibrahim Ali, who
has filed this application under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha
Sanhita, 2023 with prayer for bail as the petitioner is behind bars in connection
with Biswanath Chariali Police Station Case No. 105/2025 under Section
 Page No.# 2/3

61(2)/318(4)/316(2)/318 of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. 2. Heard Mr. P.S. Laskar, learned Additional Public Prosecutor, Assam. 3. The allegation against the petitioner is that on 23.05.2025 at around 4:40
PM, on a credible information received at Biswanath Chariali Police Station
regarding an illegal money transaction network operating in various parts of
Assam with its centre at Biswanath, a team of police personnel embarked upon
the investigation at around 5:15 PM and three persons were apprehended
during investigation in front of Asomi Rice Hotel. The petitioner is one of the
accused. The accused were brought to the police station and during preliminary
investigation, it was revealed that the petitioner and the other accused were
operating multiple fraudulent current bank accounts of various banks including
North East Small Finance Bank as mule accounts to facilitate the illegal
transactions, who often use suspected groups of the messaging application,
Telegram for the same. It was also disclosed by the petitioner Ibrahim Ali that
he was acting under the instructions of accused Hedayat Ullah. 4. It is submitted by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor that this is not
one case of isolated financial fraud but an organized racket where betting and
illegal gaming applications were disguised as legitimate platforms to lure young
users, students and members of economically vulnerable communities. The
accused used multiple forged accounts in the name of unsuspecting individuals
and funds from illegal gaming, which were funneled through layered digital
transactions involving wallets, crypto currency and intermediary mule accounts.
The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has thus submitted that the petitioners
are history sheeters and are flight risks. They are not entitled to bail at this
 Page No.# 3/3

juncture as they are involved in an offense against the society at large. 5. I have also scrutinized the Case Diary. It is submitted on behalf of the
petitioner that notice under section 35 (3) of BNSS was not issued and the
petitioner was arrested. 6. However, this has been refuted by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor
stating that reasons were assigned and the Magistrate has passed a reasoned
order as to why the petitioner was arrested without the notice under Section 35
(3) of BNSS. 7. There are indeed incriminating materials in the Case Diary against the
petitioner. Investigation is still under progress. 8. It appears that investigation may be adversely affected if the petitioner is
enlarged on bail at this stage. 9. Considering all aspects, at this stage, this Court is hesitant to grant bail to
the petitioner. 10. Petition is rejected at this stage. 11. Send back the Case Diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant