1. The applicant, presently in custody, has filed present bail
 application, under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C, in connection with File
 No. IV/PI-I/35/DeeCubes/2020-21 for the alleged offence
 punishable under Sections 132(1)(b) and 132(1)(c) of the Central
 Goods and Service Tax, 2017 (for short 'Act'). 2. The issue in the present case is with respect to availment of
 fraudulent credit. The Department in multiple cases found that
 invoices are prepared in order to create of transactions with respect
 to sale of goods and/or services. The respondent no.1 raided the
 premises of one Bharat Bhagwandas Soni on the basis of fake GST
 invoices issued by the Traders of Bullion and Diamond Products
 without supply of corresponding goods. During the search
 proceedings, it reveals that the present applicant Dharmesh Shah
 being a Director of M/s. Dee Cubes Pvt. Ltd and Proprietor of M/s.
 Gloriana Jewels having place of business at Ahmedabad, has availed Page 1 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022

 ineligible ITC of Rs.7,80,80,991/- from non-existing fake firms
 namely Vishnu Gold, Viram Jewelers, Neel Jewelers and Kabir
 Enterprise. The department noticed that the another firm of the
 applicant M/s. Gloriana Jewels has also availed ineligible ITC of
 Rs.1,52,30,495/- from the aforesaid firms. In short, total ITC credit
 of Rs.9.33 crores on the strength of invoices issued by 4 non-
 existence firm without receiving the goods have availed illicit input
 tax credit and thereby, committed an offence under Section 132(1) (c) of the Act. The investigation further reveal that the input test ITC
 illegally passed by the applicant to other persons by issuing invoices
 without actual supply of goods, thereby, he had facilitated to such
 parties for wrongful availment of ITC, which is an offence under
 Section 132(1)(d) of the Act. 3. In the aforesaid facts, it is the case of respondent no.1 that the
 applicant has entered into a criminal conspiracy of well organized
 bogus billing syndicate to create fake purchases for his 2 firms,
 which resulted into monetary loss to the government exchequer to
 the tune of Rs.9.33 crores. 4. The applicant herein served a summon, however, he did not
 complied it. On 17.03.2022, the authority visited the business place
 of the applicant, made extensive search of the place and seized
 material documents and recorded statement of the applicant and
 thereafter, on 18.03.2022, he was arrested for the alleged offence as
 referred hereinabove. He was produced before the Additional Chief
 Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad. R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022 5. The applicant herein moved an applications for regular bail before
 the Courts below and Courts below have rejected the bail application
 vide its order dated 22.03.2022 and 05.04.2022 respectively. 6. This Court has heard learned Senior counsel Mr. Manish Bhatt
 assisted by Mr. U.N. Sheth, learned advocate for and on behalf of
 applicant, Mr. Nikunt Raval, learned Standing Counsel for the
 respondent no. 1 and Mr. Manan Mehta, learned APP for the
 respondent State. 7. Mr. Manish Bhatt, learned Senior Counsel for and on behalf of the
 applicant has submitted that the applicant has not committed any
 offence and has been falsely involved without any reasonable
 ground. He urged that considering the object and scheme of the Act,
 the arrest would arise only when the investigation is completed and
 after filing the complaint. In the facts of present case, the officers of
 the department, came at the business place of the applicant and
 without any notice, he was arrested. The fact remains that no
 demand notice was issued, therefore, the arrest was effected in utter
 disregard to the mandatory provisions of the Act. 8. Mr. Bhatt, learned Senior Counsel further submitted that during the
 investigation, the company made payment of Rs.50 lakhs through
 Form GST DRC 03. The applicant had assured the department that if
 at all, the ITC credit is not admissible, then, company would reverse
 such ITC and still at this stage also, the applicant adhere to the
 assurance given vide letter dated 29.12.2021. R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022 9. Mr. Bhatt, learned Senior Counsel further submitted that after the
 arrest of the applicant, the company made deposit of Rs.2 crores
 through electronic cash ledger and same has been reflected in Forms
 DRC-03 and in the interregnum the company further reverse the ITC
 and made payment to the tune of Rs.40 lakhs. 10. In the aforesaid submissions, learned Senior Counsel urged that
 there is sufficient evidence to show that the actual purchases
 including tax invoices were being effected and payment to the
 vendors through banking channels were made, which can be seen
 from the GST portal, more particularly, reflected in Form GST-RA-
 2A. In such circumstances, the learned Senior Counsel submitted
 that no prim-facie case is made out for the alleged offence and
 unless and until final adjudication, assessment, is not made out, the
 arrest of the applicant is arbitrary and illegal. 11. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that Section 107(6) of the Act
 provides for deemed stay against the coercive recovery of dues on
 predeposit of 10% of the disputed tax liability. Here in the present
 case, the company has already deposited more than 10% and
 therefore, case is made out for exercising discretion, enlarging the
 applicant on bail. 12. Lastly, it was submitted by learned Senior Counsel that the applicant
 does not have any past criminal record and he belongs to respectable
 family and has deep roots in the society and there is no any chances
 to flee from the justice. In these background facts, he urged that
 when the offence is compoundable and entire case is based on
 documentary evidence and when substantial investigation qua the Page 4 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022

 applicant is over, the further custody of the applicant is not
 necessary, more particularly when trial will not commenced in near
 future. 13. In support of aforesaid contentions, Mr. Bhatt, learned Senior
 Counsel relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in case of Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI , 2012 (1) SCC 40 to contend that the
 grant of bail is a rule and denial is exceptional, as in the facts of
 present case, the prosecution failed to point out that the further
 detention is necessary. 14. In view of the aforesaid contentions, learned counsel submitted that
 discretion may kindly be exercised by enlarging the applicant on
 bail. 15. On the other hand, learned Standing Counsel Mr. Nikunt Raval for
 respondent no. 1 opposed the contentions raised on behalf of the
 learned senior counsel for the applicant and reiterating the facts of
 the affidavit filed by the officer of the Department, contended that
 the evasion of the duty is Rs.9.33 crores and considering the larger
 conspiracy hatched by Mr. Bharat Soni and his associates and the
 applicant being a part of the conspiracy and considering the nature
 of offence, no case is made out for exercising the discretion granting
 bail to the applicant. 16. On the issue of deposit of tax made by the applicant, the learned
 Standing Counsel submitted that the reversal of ITC is not
 acceptable as this amount fraudulently received from the fake non-
 existence firm and therefore, even after making such payment, the Page 5 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022

 court has to consider the severity of the offence and its impact on the
 society. Thus, therefore, he submitted that the offence alleged
 committed in a planned manner with an object to gain personal
 profit, regardless of the consequences of the community. 17. Learned Standing counsel submitted that still matter is under
 investigation and there are missing link of chain which are yet to be
 joined and applicant being a main person of the company, his further
 custody is necessary and there are also chances of him to flee from
 the justice and he may influence the witnesses. 18. In support of aforesaid contentions, the learned Standing Counsel
 relied on the case laws i.e. Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy Vs. CBI , 2013
 (7) SCC 439, to submit that the offence alleged is fall under the
 category of economic offence and such kind of offences having deep
 rooted conspiracies, involving huge loss of public funds, needs to be
 viewed seriously and considered as grave offences. 19. In the aforesaid contentions, learned Standing Counsel submitted
 that no case is made out for exercising power to release the applicant
 on bail and therefore, application may be rejected. 20. Heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length and
 perused the material placed on record. 21. On perusal of the material placed on record, it appears that so far
 case of present applicant is concerned, his role and modus operandi,
 unearth, while the authority was investigating the case of Bharat
 Soni and others. In the present case, the applicant herein being a Page 6 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022

 Director and Proprietor of both the firms have categorically stated
 that his company made deposit of Rs. 2 crores to Electronic Cash
 Ledger and also had made payment totaling Rs.90 lakhs by reversing
 the alleged ITC. Record indicates that while making request for
 removal of the seal duly affixed on safe vault, the applicant in
 writing stated as under : 22. In view of the aforesaid facts, it is evident that the applicant has paid
 Rs.2,90,00,000/- through Electronic Cash Ledger as well cash. The
 amount involved is Rs.9.33 crores. In such circumstances, more than
 10% amount has been deposited. It is settled law that there is no
 straight jacket formula for consideration of grant of bail to an
 accused. It all depends upon the facts and circumstances of each
 case. Here in the present case, after the arrest, the applicant has
 shown his bonafideness as discussed hereinabove. The applicant
 does not have any past record. The authority has expressed the
 apprehension that if bail is granted, the applicant will flee from
 justice and considering the pending investigation, his custody is
 necessary. This contention having no any merits, as merely raising
 the contention is not enough but it should be substantiate by
 acceptable material. In the present case, nothing on record to show Page 7 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/7420/2022 ORDER DATED: 01/07/2022

 that the investigation qua applicant is incomplete and he having
 tendency to flee away from justice. The entire documentary
 evidence seized by the authority. In such circumstances, when the
 authority failed to point out that the further custody of the applicant
 is necessary, and considering the particular facts and circumstances
 of the present case and keeping in mind the settled law laid down in the case of Sanjay Chandra Vs. CBI , AIR, 2012 SC 830, wherein,
 it was observed that detention of the accused for an indefinite period
 is in violation of Article 21. Since trial of the case may have take
 considerable time and therefore, there is no reason to detain the
 accused in custody after completion of investigation, this court is of
 considered view that the application deserves consideration and I
 inclined to release the applicant on regular bail. 23. Hence, the applicant is ordered to be released on regular bail in
 connection with the File No. IV/PI-I/35/DeeCubes/2020-21, on
 executing a personal bond of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten thousands
 only), with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the
 learned Trial Court and subject to the conditions that he shall: (e) furnish latest address of residence to the Investigating
 Officer and also to the Court at the time of execution of
 the bond and shall not change the residence without prior
 permission of the trial Court; 24. The authorities shall release the applicant if he is not required in
 connection with the any other offence. If breach of any above
 condition is committed, the Sessions Judge concerned shall take
 appropriate action or issue warrant against the applicant. The bail
 bond to be executed before the learned trial Court having
 jurisdiction to try the case. It will be open for the sessions judge
 concerned to delete, modify and/or relax any of the above
 conditions, in accordance with law. Nothing stated hereinabove,
 shall tantamount to the expression of any opinion on the merits of
 this case. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct
 service permitted. (ILESH J. VORA,J)
P.S. JOSHI Page 9 of 9 Downloaded on : Fri Jul 01 21:35:24 IST 2022