T.S. THAKUR, J. 1. Writ Petitions seeking transfer of investigation from the

State Agencies to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)

under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act , is by no means

uncommon in the High Courts in this country. Some, if not most

of such cases in due course travel to this Court also, where,

issues touching the powers of the High Courts and at times the

power of this Court to direct such transfers are raised by the

parties. The jurisdictional aspect is, however, no longer res

integra, the same having been answered authoritatively by a

Constitution Bench of this Court in State of West Bengal & Ors.

v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal &

Ors. (2010) 3 SCC 571. This Court in that case was examining

whether the federal structure and the principles of separation

of powers, made it impermissible for the superior courts to

direct transfer of investigation from the State Police to the

CBI. Rejecting the contention, this Court held that power of

judicial review itself being a basic feature of the

Constitution, the writ courts could issue appropriate writ,

directions and orders to protect the fundamental rights of the

citizens. This Court observed: 2. This Court summed up the conclusions in the following

words: (iv) If the federal structure is violated by any
legislative action, the Constitution takes care to
protect the federal structure by ensuring that Courts
act as guardians and interpreters of the Constitution
and provide remedy under Articles 32 and 226 ,
whenever there is an attempted violation. In the
circumstances, any direction by the Supreme Court or
the High Court in exercise of power under Article 32 or 226 to uphold the Constitution and maintain the
rule of law cannot be termed as violating the federal
structure. (v) Restriction on the Parliament by the Constitution
and restriction on the Executive by the Parliament
under an enactment, do not amount to restriction on
the power of the Judiciary under Article 32 and 226 of the Constitution. (vi) If in terms of Entry 2 of List II of The Seventh
Schedule on the one hand and Entry 2A and Entry 80 of
List I on the other, an investigation by another
agency is permissible subject to grant of consent by
the State concerned, there is no reason as to why, in
an exceptional situation, court would be precluded
from exercising the same power which the Union could
exercise in terms of the provisions of the Statute.
In our opinion, exercise of such power by the
constitutional courts would not violate the doctrine
of separation of powers. In fact, if in such a
situation the court fails to grant relief, it would
be failing in its constitutional duty. (vii) When the Special Police Act itself provides
that subject to the consent by the State, the CBI can
take up investigation in relation to the crime which
was otherwise within the jurisdiction of the State
Police, the court can also exercise its
constitutional power of judicial review and direct
the CBI to take up the investigation within the
jurisdiction of the State. The power of the High
Court under Article 226 of the Constitution cannot be
taken away, curtailed or diluted by Section 6 of the
Special Police Act. Irrespective of there being any 8 statutory provision acting as a restriction on the
 powers of the Courts, the restriction imposed by
 Section 6 of the Special Police Act on the powers of
 the Union, cannot be read as restriction on the
 powers of the Constitutional Courts. Therefore,
 exercise of power of judicial review by the High
 Court, in our opinion, would not amount to
 infringement of either the doctrine of separation of
 power or the federal structure. 69. In the final analysis, our answer to the question
 referred is that a direction by the High Court, in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution, to the CBI to investigate a cognizable
 offence alleged to have been committed within the
 territory of a State without the consent of that
 State will neither impinge upon the federal structure
 of the Constitution nor violate the doctrine of
 separation of power and shall be valid in law. Being
 the protectors of civil liberties of the citizens,
 this Court and the High Courts have not only the
 power and jurisdiction but also an obligation to
 protect the fundamental rights, guaranteed by Part
 III in general and under Article 21 of the
 Constitution in particular, zealously and vigilantly" "70. Before parting with the case, we deem it
 necessary to emphasise that despite wide powers
 conferred by Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution,
 while passing any order, the Courts must bear in mind
 certain self-imposed limitations on the exercise of
 these Constitutional powers. The very plenitude of
 the power under the said Articles requires great
 caution in its exercise. In so far as the question of
 issuing a direction to the CBI to conduct
 investigation in a case is concerned, although no
 inflexible guidelines can be laid down to decide
 whether or not such power should be exercised but
 time and again it has been reiterated that such an
 order is not to be passed as a matter of routine or
 merely because a party has levelled some allegations
 against the local police. This extra-ordinary power
 must be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in 9 exceptional situations where it becomes necessary to
 provide credibility and instill confidence in
 investigations or where the incident may have
 national and international ramifications or where
 such an order may be necessary for doing complete
 justice and enforcing the fundamental rights.
 Otherwise the CBI would be flooded with a large
 number of cases and with limited resources, may find
 it difficult to properly investigate even serious
 cases and in the process lose its credibility and
 purpose with unsatisfactory investigations." (emphasis supplied) 4. We may at this stage refer to a few cases in which this

Court has either directed transfer of investigation to the CBI or

upheld orders passed by the High Court directing such transfer. 5. In Inder Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 6 SCC 275 this

Court was dealing with a case in which seven persons aged between

14 to 85 were alleged to have been abducted by a senior police

officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police in

complicity with other policemen. Since those abducted were not

heard of for a considerable period, a complaint was made against

their abduction and disappearance before the Director General of

Police of the State. It was alleged that the complaint was not

brought to the notice of the Director General of Police (Crime).

Instead his P.A. had marked the same to the I.G. (Crime)

culminating in an independent inquiry through the Superintendent

of Police, Special Staff, attached to his office. The report of

the Superintendent of Police recommended registration of a case

against the officials concerned under Section 364 of the IPC.

Despite the said recommendation no case was registered on one 10 pretext or the other against the concerned police officer till

23rd March, 1994. It was at this stage that a writ petition was

filed before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of

India for a fair, independent and effective investigation into

the episode. Allowing the petition this Court directed an

independent investigation to be conducted by the CBI into the

circumstances of the abduction of seven persons; their present

whereabouts or the circumstances of their liquidation. An inquiry

was also directed into the delay on the part of the State Police

in taking action between 25th January 1992 when the complaint was

first lodged and 23rd March, 1994 when the case was finally

registered. 6. In R.S. Sodhi Advocate v. State of U.P. and Ors. 1994

(Supp) (1) SCC 143 this Court was dealing with a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India seeking an independent

investigation by the CBI into a police encounter resulting in the

killing of ten persons. The investigation into the incident was

being conducted at the relevant point of time by an officer of

the rank of Inspector General level. The State Government also

appointed a one-member Commission headed by a sitting Judge of

the Allahabad High Court to inquire into the matter. This Court

found that since the local police was involved in the alleged

encounter an independent investigation by the CBI into what was

according to the petitioner a fake encounter, was perfectly

justified. This Court held that, however, faithfully the police

may carry out the investigation, the same will lack ‘credibility’

since the allegations against them are serious. Such a transfer 11 was considered necessary so that all those concerned including

the relatives of the deceased feel assured that an independent

agency was looking into the matter thereby lending credibility to

the outcome of the investigation. This Court observed: (emphasis supplied) 7. A reference may also be made to State of Punjab v. CBI (2011) 9 SCC 182 where the High Court of Punjab and Haryana

transferred an investigation from the State Police to the CBI in

relation to what was known as "Moga Sex Scandal" case. The High

Court had while ordering transfer of the investigation found that

several police officials, political leaders, advocates, municipal 12 counsellors, besides a number of persons belonging to the general

public had been named in connection with the case. The High Court

had while commending the investigation conducted by DIG and his

team of officials all the same directed transfer of case to CBI

having regard to the nature of the case and those allegedly

involved in the same. The directions issued by the High Court

were affirmed by this Court and the matter allowed to be

investigated by the CBI. 8. More recently, this Court in Advocates Association,

Bangalore, v. Union of India and Ors. (2013) 10 SCC 611 had an

occasion to deal with the question of transfer of an

investigation from the State Police to the CBI in the context of

an ugly incident involving advocates, police and media persons

within the Bangalore City Civil Court Complex. On a complaint
filed by the Advocates’ Association, Bangalore, before the Chief

Minister for suitable action against the alleged police

atrocities committed on the advocates, the Government of

Karnataka appointed the Director General of Police, CID, Special

Unit and Economic Offences as an Inquiry Officer to conduct an

in-house inquiry into the matter. The Advocates’ Association at

the same time filed a complaint with jurisdictional police

station, naming the policemen involved in the incident. In

addition, the Registrar, City Civil Court also lodged a complaint

with the police for causing damage to the property of City Civil

Court, Bangalore by those indulged in violence. Several writ

petitions were then filed before the High Court, inter alia,

asking for investigation by the CBI. The High Court constituted a 13 Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Dr. R.K. Raghvan, a

retired Director CBI, as its Chairman and others. The Advocates’

Association was, however, dissatisfied with that order which was

assailed before this Court primarily on the ground that a fair

investigation could be conducted only by an independent agency

like the CBI. Relying upon the decision of this Court in State of

West Bengal v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights

(2010) 2 SCC 571 this Court directed transfer of investigation to

the CBI holding that the nature of the incident and the delay in

setting up of the SIT was sufficient to warrant such a transfer. 9. It is unnecessary to multiply decisions on the subject,

for this Court has exercised the power to transfer investigation

from the State Police to the CBI in cases where such transfer is

considered necessary to discover the truth and to meet the ends

of justice or because of the complexity of the issues arising for

examination or where the case involves national or international

ramifications or where people holding high positions of power and

influence or political clout are involved. What is important is

that while the power to transfer is exercised sparingly and with

utmost care and circumspection this Court has more often than not

directed transfer of cases where the fact situations so demand. 10. We are in the case at hand dealing with a major financial

scam nicknamed ‘Chit Fund Scam’ affecting lakhs of depositors

across several States in the Eastern parts of this country.

Affidavits and status reports filed in these proceedings reveal

that several companies were engaged in the business of receiving

deposits from the public at large. The modus operandi of the 14 companies involved in such Ponzi Schemes was in no way different

from the ordinary except that they appear to have evolved newer

and more ingenious ways of tantalizing gullible public to make

deposits and thereby fall prey to temptation and the designs of

those promoting such companies. For instance Saradha Group of

Companies which is a major player in the field, had floated

several schemes to allure the depositors to collect from the

market a sizeable amount on the promise of the depositors getting

attractive rewards and returns. These fraudulent (Ponzi) schemes

included land allotment schemes, flat allotment schemes, and

tours and travel schemes. The group had floated as many as 160

companies although four out of them were the front runners in

this sordid affair. An interim forensic audit report submitted

to the SEBI by Sarath & Associate, Chartered Accountants on 27th

February, 2014 sums up in the following words, the background in

which the schemes are floated and the public defrauded : 11. The Report suggests that the investors were promised very

high returns by way of interest rate ranging from 10% to 18%. The

said returns promised to the depositors were, according to the

Report, too good to be true. The Report also suggests that a very

large number of ‘agents base’ was created by the companies to

extend the reach of these companies. For Saradha Realty India 16 Ltd. itself as many as 2,21,000 agents were working, who were

paid an unreasonably high brokerage of 30% of the instrument

which became the driving force for the agents to go that extra

mile to collect as much as possible. The Report indicates that

investments that matured for payment were paid out of the cash

collected from new members which was opposed to the normal

business norms in which returns ought to be paid out of profits
earned in the business. Besides, the cash collections were

neither accurately shown in the books of accounts, nor did the

bank accounts reveal the details of such cash collections. The

Report states that the company had no real intention of doing any

legitimate business activity and the money collected from the

public was spread over 160 companies and spent away or siphoned

off. No major revenue was seen to be generated by any group

company. The companies had opened too many bank accounts for

Round Tripping Transactions for the monies collected by them.

Apart from as many as 218 branches spread over several States

including West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Assam and other States the

companies had as many as 347 bank accounts in 15 banks in the

name of the Group Companies. The bank accounts were opened at

the location of branches enabling deposit of the cash into

accounts. The daily cash collected less expenses was deposited at

branch account and the money pooled and transferred to other

accounts as per CMD’s instructions and utilized to issue the

cheques. The Report also points out violation of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , the Companies Act, 1956 , The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the Income-Tax Act, 1961 . 17 It also points out fraudulent certification, non-compliance of

accounting standards, material mis-statement of facts and gross

negligence on the part of the statutory Auditors. The Interim

Report eventually draws up the following conclusions: 12. The Report estimates the collection made by the Saradha

Group of companies at Rs.2459 crores. 13. Failure of the group companies to refund the deposits made 19 with them was bound to as it indeed has led to a public outcry

against the scam on account of the huge amount that was collected

by these companies by defrauding a very large section of the

public majority of whom appear to be from middle class, lower

middle class or poorer sections of the society. The Government of

West Bengal acted in response to the protests and the public

anguish over a fraud of such colossal magnitude and set up a

Commission of Inquiry headed by Mr. Justice Shyamal Kumar Sen,

retired Chief Justice, Allahabad High Court with four others to

be nominated by the Government to inquire into the matters set

out in a notification dated 24th April, 2013 issued in that

regard. The Commission was empowered to receive all individual

and public complaints regarding the Saradha Group of Companies

and other similar companies involved in the scam and to forward

such complaints to the authorities concerned including the

Special Investigation Team for launching prosecution. The

Commission was also authorized to send directives to the Special

Investigation Team, identify the key persons responsible for the

present situation, quantify the estimated amount of money

involved in the alleged transactions, assess the assets and

liabilities of the group of companies and to recommend ways and

means for providing succor to those who had lost their savings.

The Commission was also authorized to recommend remedial action

and measures to the State Government so that such situations do

not recur. 14. By another notification dated 27th August, 2013 the

Government, relying upon the directions issued by the High Court 20 of Calcutta in Writ Petition No.12163(W) of 2013 and Writ
Petition No.12197(W) of 2013 empowered the Commission of Inquiry

to dispose of all the assets belonging to the Saradha Group of

Companies and/or their agents and/or their Benamidars and to

adopt an appropriate mode of recovery of debts on behalf of the

Saradha Group from its debtors and add the proceeds to the fund

to be created for that purpose. The Commission was also clothed

with the power to attach the bank accounts belonging to the

Saradha Group of Companies and the personal bank accounts of the

Directors apart from restraining the banks concerned from

allowing anyone to operate such accounts unless authorized by the

Commission. Pursuant to the above notifications the Commission

has received nearly 18 lakhs complaints and claim petitions

demanding refund of the amount deposited under such Ponzi

Schemes. 15. In the counter-affidavit filed on behalf of the State of

Bihar it is, inter alia, stated that the State Government has

announced a sum of rupees 500 crores for payment to the aggrieved

depositors apart from money that may be raised from selling off

the assets of the companies including the Saradha Group of

Companies. The affidavit further states that the Commission has

passed orders for payment of compensation to the investors in the

Saradha Group of Companies and that over one lakh beneficiaries

have been paid while another 1,66,456 identified for such

payment. The affidavit also states that as per the directions

issued by the High Court of Calcutta in terms of the notification

mentioned above as many as 224 immovable properties and 54 21 vehicles have been identified for attachment and possible sale

and recovery of the amount due from the companies. The affidavit

goes on to say that one Kunal Kumar Ghosh, Member of Parliament,

Rajya Sabha, was arrested on 23rd November, 2013 in connection

with the case registered in Bidhannagar South Police Station

after being interrogated on several occasions. The said Kunal

Kumar Ghosh was the media CEO of Saradha Group of Companies. In

addition one Srinjoy Bose, Member of Parliament was also
interrogated by serious Fraud Investigation Office in relation to

the Saradha Group of Companies and that the Special Investigating

Team and the police authorities are extending full support and

cooperation to the Central Agencies like Enforcement Directorate,

Serious Fraud Investigation Office etc. for effective

investigation of the scam. The State has in that view opposed

the prayer of the petitioner for transfer of the investigation

from the State Police to the CBI. 16. When this case came up before us on 4th March, 2013 our

attention was drawn by Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan, Senior counsel

appearing for the State of West Bengal to a statement appearing

at page 474 of the said sur-rejoinder filed by the State which

according to the learned counsel summarized the investments made

by the Saradha group of companies from out of the money collected

by it from the depositors. These details were sketchy and

unsatisfactory especially when the trail of money collected

remained obscure no matter it was one of the important, if not

the single most important, angle to be investigated for

unraveling facts leading to the scam and identifying those who 22 had aided and/or abetted the same. Mr. Vaidhyanathan
 was,

therefore, granted ten days time to file a comprehen
sive

statement as to the amount collected by the said group
 of

companies and the expenditure incurred/investments made over a

period of time. 17. An affidavit was accordingly filed by the State of West

Bengal in which the purchase value of the property acquired by

Saradha Group of Companies was estimated at Rs.40 crores only as

against a total collection of Rs.2,460 crores made by the said

companies. Mr. Vaidyanathan argued that the investment in real

estate could go upto Rs.110 crores on the basis of
 the

information gathered from the software that was seized from the

companies concerned. Even if that were so a signifi
cant
discrepancy existed between investigation based estim
ated

purchase value of the properties on the one hand and what could

according to Mr. Vaidyanathan emerge from the software seized

from the companies. Mr. Vaidyanathan argued that the discrepancy

could be on account of the fact that a large number of properties

referred to in the affidavit have been acquired by the companies

on the basis of power of attorneys which do not indicate the

value of the property covered by such deeds and transactions. Be

that as it may, a huge gap between the amount collected and the

investments made in real estate itself calls for effec
tive

investigation as to the trail of money collected by the group of

companies. Investigation by the State Police has
 not

unfortunately made any significant headway in this regard. 18. More importantly, the question whether the scam
 was 23 confined only to those who actively managed and participated in

the affairs of the companies or the same flourished on account of

the support and patronage of others is an issue that has bothered

us all through the hearing of this case. We had, therefore,

directed the State to file a sample copy of the chargesheets said

to have been submitted before the jurisdictional Courts. A

perusal of the copies so furnished shows that the same relate

only to individual deposits leaving untouched the larger

conspiracy angle that needs to be addressed. It was argued by Mr.

Bhattacharya that the Investigating Agency was deliberately

avoiding to investigate that vital aspect. Mr. Vaidyanathan,

however, contended that the larger conspiracy angle was being

investigated separately in an FIR registered with Vidhannagar

Police Station. He sought and was given time to file an affidavit

setting out the particulars of the FIR in which the larger

conspiracy angle was being examined and the progress so far made

in that regard. 19. An additional affidavit was accordingly filed by Mr.
Vaidyanathan in which it is, inter alia, stated that the larger

conspiracy angle is being investigated in Crime No.102 registered

in Bidhannagar Police Station (North) on 6th May, 2013 under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 120B IPC. At the hearing of the case on

9th April, 2014 Mr. Vaidyanathan passed on to us a sealed cover

containing a list of persons who according to the learned counsel

need to be questioned in view of the disclosers made and the

evidence collected so far by the Investigating Agency. The basis

on which the Investigation Team has named the persons in the list 24 was not set out in the list or elsewhere. Mr. Vaidyanathan,

therefore, offered to file a synopsis of the evidence on the

basis whereof the names mentioned in the list had been included

in the said list and the evidence which incriminates them calling

for further investigation into their role and conduct. An

affidavit giving the synopsis was pursuant to the said order

filed by Mr. Vaidyanathan indicating briefly the basis on which

the persons named in the list were sought to be interrogated in

connection with the scam. A perusal of the synopsis furnished and

the names included in the list makes it abundantly clear to us

that several important individuals wielding considerable

influence within the system at the State and the national level

have been identified by the Investigating Agency fo
r

interrogation. We do not consider it necessary to reveal at this

stage the names of the individuals who are included in the list

on the basis of which the Investigating Agency proposes to

interrogate them or the material so far collected to justify such

interrogation. All that we need point out is that investigation

into the scam is not confined to those directly involved in the

affairs of companies but may extend to several others who need to

be questioned about their role in the sequence and unfolding of

events that has caused ripples on several fronts. 20. There is yet another aspect to which we must advert at

this stage. This relates to the role of the Regulatory
Authorities. Investigation conducted so far puts a question mark

on the role of regulatory authorities like SEBI, Registrar of

Companies and officials of the RBI within whose respective 25 jurisdictions and areas of operation the scam not only took birth

but flourished unhindered. The synopsis filed by
 Mr.

Vaidyanathan names some of the officials belonging to the
se

authorities and give reasons why their role needs to
 be

investigated. The synopsis goes to the extent of suggesting that

regular payments towards bribe were paid through middleman to

some of those who were supposed to keep an eye on such ponzi

companies. The Regulatory Authorities, it is common ground,

exercise their powers and jurisdiction under Central

legislations. Possible connivance of those who were charged with

the duty of preventing the scams of such nature in breach of the

law, therefore, needs to be closely examined and effectively

dealt with. Investigation into the larger conspiracy angle will,

thus, inevitably bring such statutory regulators also und
er

scrutiny. 21. It was at one stage argued on behalf of SEBI
 that

companies involved in the scam were doing chit-fund business and

since chit-funds were not within its jurisdiction it could not

have taken cognizance of the same. Our attention was, however,

drawn to atleast two orders passed by SEBI directing winding up

of such ponzi schemes and refund of the amounts received by the

companies concerned to the depositors. It was submitted
 by

learned Counsel for the petitioner that the SEBI having examined

the issue, taken cognizance of the violation, no matter belatedly

and issued directions for winding up of the schemes and refund of

the amount, it was no longer open to it to argue that it had no

role to play in the matter. 22. We are not in these proceedings required
 to

authoritatively pronounce upon the question whether SEBI had the

jurisdiction to act in the matter. What is important is that if

upon investigation it is found that SEBI did have
 the

jurisdiction to act in the matter but failed to do so then s
uch

failure may tantamount to connivance and call for ac
tion

against those who failed to act diligently in the mat
ter. Suffice it to say, that the scam of this magnitude going on for

years unnoticed and unchecked, is suggestive of a deep rooted

apathy if not criminal neglect on the part of the regulators who

ought to do everything necessary to prevent such fraud and public

loot. Depending upon whether the investigation reveals
 any

criminal conspiracy among those promoting the companies
that

flourished at the cost of the common man and those who were

supposed to prevent such fraud calls for a comprehensive

investigation not only to bring those who were responsible to

book but also to prevent recurrence of such scams in future. 23. There is yet another dimension of the scam which cannot be

neglected. That the ponzi companies operated across State borders

is evident not only from the pleadings on record but also from

the submissions urged in the course of the arguments before us.

What is significant is that these companies and such o
ther

similar companies indulged in similar fraudulent activities in

the State of Assam and Tripura also apart from Orissa where the

depositors have suffered. Looking to the nature of the scam and

its inter- State ramifications, cases registered in the State of

Tripura have since been transferred to the CBI for investigation 27 at the request of the State Government. A similar request has

been made by the Government of Assam which has, according to Mr.

Siddharth Luthra, learned Additional Solicitor General, been

accepted by the Central Government who is shortly issuing a
notification under which cases concerning the scam registered in

the State of Assam shall stand transferred to the CBI. 24. That leaves us with the State of Odisha where too Saradha

Group of Companies and a host of similar other companies appear

to have indulged in similar activities giving rise to

considerable public resentment against the authorities for not

preventing such companies from defrauding the innocent public.

Writ Petition (C) Nos.413 of 2013 and 324 of 2014 seek transfer

of such cases registered in the State of Odisha to the CBI on the

analogy of what was done in relation to Tripura and Assam keeping

in view the magnitude of the scam as also those involved, in the

same. 25. In Writ Petition (C) No.413 of 2013 we had by our order

dated 26th March, 2014 confined the proceedings to 44 companies

mentioned in two list one filed by Mr. Alok Jena, the petitioner

in the petition and the other by the Counsel for the State

Government. The involvement of these companies in the scam had

inter-state ramifications besides the fact that their collections

had exceeded over 500 cores each. 26. It was submitted by counsel for the parties that looking

to the large number of cases that had been registered, transfer

of each and every case may work as an impediment in the effective

investigation of the cases by the CBI. For all intents and 28 purposes, therefore, proceedings in these two writ petitions were

confined to a prayer for transfer of cases registered against 44

companies named in the lists filed by the counsel for the

parties. 27. Since certain aspects of the information considered

relevant for the transfer of the cases was not forthcoming, we

had directed the State Government to file an affidavit providing

the said information. The information related primarily to the

number of companies involved in the scam in the State of Odisha.

The total amount allegedly collected by 44 companies referred to

in the lists furnished by the State Counsel and Counsel for the
petitioner. The total number of claims made by the depositors

before Justice R.K. Patra Commission set up with the State

Government as also the total number of properties, seized in

regard to the 44 companies referred to above . The total amount so

far paid to the investors under the orders or the Commission or

otherwise and the total number of charge-sheets so far filed.

Investments made in real estate or otherwise by the 44 companies

were also demanded from the State who was asked to disclose

whether the larger conspiracy angle was being investigated and,

if so, furnish the particulars of the FIR in which that was being

done. 28. An affidavit has been filed by the State of Odisha

pursuant to the said directions in which the FIRs where the State

Investigating Agency is examining the larger conspiracy angle,

have been identified. A perusal of the Affidavit, further, shows

that 163 companies were involved in the chit-fund scam in the 29 State of Odisha who have collected Rs.4565 crores approximately

from the public out of which a sum of Rs.2904 crores has been

collected by 43 companies mentioned in the list referr
ed to

earlier excluding M/s Nabadiganta Capital Services Ltd. against

which no criminal case have been registered so far. The

affidavit also states that 7,45,293 envelopes containing claim

petitions have been received from the depositors by Justice R.K.

Patra Commission. The affidavit also gives details of
 the

properties of the companies seized/sealed in the course of the

on-going investigation. The affidavit also refers to payment of

Rs.24,17,65,866/- allegedly made to 18,596 investors by
 M/s

Prayag Infotech High Rise Limited, Kolkata and the willingness

expressed by M/s Rose Valley Hotels and Entertainment Limited to

pay back the investors. Larger conspiracy angle is according to

the affidavit being examined in three cases. These are (i) CID PS

Case No.39 dated 18.07.2012 under Section 420 / 120-B IPC read with Sections 4 , 5 and 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes

(Banning) Act, 1978 registered against M/s Seashore Gro
up of

Companies, (ii) Case No.44 dated 07.02.2013 under the
 same

provisions registered in Kharavelnagar Police St
ation

(Bhubaneswar Urban Police District) against M/s Artha Tatwa Group

of Companies and (iii) EOW PS Case No.19 dated 06.06
.2013

registered against M/s Astha International Ltd. It was submitt
ed

that while charge sheets have been submitted in three
 cases

mentioned above within the period of limitation, investigation

has been kept open under Section 173 (8) of the Cr.P.
C. to

investigate the larger conspiracy angle. The affidavit
 also 30 refers to certain legislations enacted in the State of Odisha to

protect the interest of depositors. It also refers to certain

interim orders passed by the Government for attachment of the

properties of the defaulting companies. 29. Appearing for the State of Odisha, Mr. Gopal Subramanium,

learned Senior Counsel argued that while this Court may transfer

for further investigation into the cases registered against 44

companies referred to above, any such transfer should not hamper

the attachment or recovery process otherwise initiated by the

State in terms of the measures taken by it. It was also contended

by Mr. Subramanium that public prosecutors appointed by the CBI

would be assisted by the State Police Officials so that the

efficacy of the investigation and prosecution are both taken care

of by the joint efforts that the Central and the State police

authorities may make. 30. The factual narrative given in the foregoing paragraphs

clearly establish the following: 31. The question is whether the above features call fo
r

transfer of the ongoing investigation from the State Police to

the CBI. Our answer is in the affirmative. Each one of the

aspects set out above in our view calls for investigation by an
independent agency like the Central Bureau of Investigation

(CBI). That is because apart from the sensitivity of the issues 32 involved especially inter-state ramifications of the scam under

investigation, transfer of cases from the State police have been

ordered by this Court also with a view to ensure credibility of

such investigation in the public perception. Transfers have been

ordered by this Court even in cases where the family members of

victim killed in a firing incident had expressed apprehensions

about the fairness of the investigation and prayed for entrusting

the matter to a credible and effective agency like the CBI.

Investigation by the State Police in a scam that involves

thousands of crores collected from the public allegedly because

of the patronage of people occupying high positions in the system

will hardly carry conviction especially when even the regulators

who were expected to prevent or check such a scam appear to have

turned a blind eye to what was going on. The State Police Agency

has done well in making seizures, in registering cases, in

completing investigation in most of the cases and filing charge-

sheets and bringing those who are responsible to book. The

question, however, is not whether the State police has faltered.

The question is whether what is done by the State police is

sufficient to inspire confidence of those who are aggrieved.

While we do not consider it necessary to go into the question

whether the State police have done all that it ought to have

done, we need to point out that money trail has not yet been

traced. The collections made from the public far exceed the

visible investment that the investigating agencies have till now

identified. So also the larger conspiracy angle in the States of

Assam, Odisha and West Bengal although under investigation has 33 not made much headway partly because of the inter-state

ramifications, which the Investigating Agencies need to examine

but are handicapped in examining. 32. M/s Vaidyanathan and Gopal Subramanium, learned counsel
for the States of West Bengal and Odisha respectively argued that

the CBI itself has in a great measure lost its credibility and is

no longer as effective and independent as it may have been in the

past. Similar sentiments were expressed by Mr. P.V. Shetty

appearing on behalf of some of the investors and some other

intervenors, who followed suit to pursue a similar line of

argument. 33. There is, in our opinion, no basis of the apprehension

expressed by the State Governments. It is true that a lot can be

said about the independence of CBI as a premier Investigating

Agency but so long as there is nothing substantial affecting its

credibility it remains a premier Investigating Agency. Those not

satisfied with the performance of the State Police more often

than not demand investigation by the CBI for it inspires their

confidence. We cannot, therefore, decline transfer of the cases

only because of certain stray observations or misplaced

apprehensions expressed by those connected with the scam or those

likely to be affected by the investigation. We may in this regard

gainfully extract the following passage from the decision of this

Court in Sanjiv Kumar v. State of Haryana and Others (2005) 5 SCC

517, where this Court has lauded the CBI as an independent agency

that is not only capable of but actually shows results: 34. In the circumstances, we are inclined to allow all these

petitions and direct transfer of the following cases registered

in different police stations in the State of West Bengal and

Odisha from the State Police Agency to the Central Bureau of

Investigation (CBI): A. State of West Bengal: 1. All cases registered in different police stations of the

 State against Saradha Group of Companies including Crime

 No.102 registered in the Bidhannagar Police Station,

 Kolkata (North) on 6th May, 2013 for offences punishable

 under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 and 120B of the IPC. 35 2. All cases in which the investigation is yet to be

 completed registered against any other company upto the

 date of this order. 3. The CBI shall be free to conduct further investigation in

 terms of Section 173 (8) of the Cr.P.C. in relation to any

 case where a charge-sheet has already been presented

 before the jurisdictional court against the companies

 involved in any chit-fund scam. B. State of Odisha : All cases registered against 44 companies mentioned in our order

dated 26th March, 2014 passed in Writ Petition (C) No.413 of 2013.

The CBI is also permitted to conduct further investigations into

all such cases in which chargesheets have already been filed. 35. We reserve liberty for the Joint Director CBI, Incharge of

the States of West Bengal and Odisha to seek further directions

in relation to transfer of any other case or cases that may

require to be transferred for investigation to CBI for a full and

effective investigation into the scam. 36. Transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of

Investigation (CBI) in terms of this order shall not, however,

affect the proceedings pending before the Commissions of Enquiry

established by the State Government or stall any action that is

legally permissible for recovery of the amount for payment to the

depositors. Needless to say that the State Police Agencies

currently investigating the cases shall provide the fullest

cooperation to the CBI including assistance in terms of men and

material to enable the latter to conduct and complete the 36 investigation expeditiously. 37. The Enforcement Directorate shall, in the meantime
,

expedite the investigation initiated by it into the scam and

institute appropriate proceedings based on the same in accordance

with law. 38. We make it clear that nothing said in this order, shall be

taken as a final opinion as to the complicity of those being

investigated or others who may be investigated, questioned or

interrogated in relation to the scam. 39. We do not for the present consider it necessary
 to

constitute a Monitoring Team to monitor the progress of
 the

investigation into the scam. But, we leave the exercise of that

option open for the future. 40. The Writ Petitions and T.P.(C) No. 445 of 2014
 are

disposed of in terms of the above directions. No costs. .................................. ..............J.
 (T.S. THAKUR)

 .....................................