Writ petition is partly allowed. I. Internal Complaint Committee- the respondent No.1 of
 ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., (OLA)-the respondent No.2
 shall hold an enquiry into the complaint of the
 petitioner dated 30.09.2018 as per Annexure-F in
 accordance with the provisions of PoSH Act, 2013 and
 complete the process as expeditiously as possible
 within an outer limit of 90 (ninety) days from the date
 of receipt of certified copy of this order as per Section
 11 of the PoSH Act, 2013 and submit the report to the
 District Officer as provided thereunder. II. No directions are required to be issued to Respondent
 No.3 with regard to prayer No.(b) for the reasons
 recorded at paragraph 95(b) hereinabove. III. Karnataka State Transport Authority-Respondent No.4
 which has already issued the Notice dated 16.08.2024
 seeking explanation from ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd.,
 (OLA)-the Respondent No. 2, shall proceed with the
 matter taking into consideration the observation made 154 herein above and shall complete the process in
 accordance with law after affording sufficient
 opportunity to the ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., (OLA)- (ninety) days from the date of receipt of certified copy
 of this order. It is made clear that before initiating any
 consequent action pursuant to the out come of such
 proceeding it shall bring to the notice of the Division
 Bench of this Court which is seized of the matter in
 writ appeal in W.A.No.4789/2016. IV. For the reasons recorded while answering point No.4
 Internal Complaint Committee-the respondent No.1
 and ANI Technologies Pvt. Ltd., (OLA)- the Respondent
 No. 2 are hereby directed to pay a sum of
 Rs.5,00,000/- to the Petitioner towards compensation
 and an additional sum of Rs.50,000/- towards litigation
 expenses within 30 (thirty) days from the date of
 receipt of certified copy of this Order; V. For the reasons recorded while answering point No.4
 the concerned of the Additional Commissioner for
 Transport and Secretary of Respondent No.4 Authority
 shall personally pay a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- payable
 to the Karnataka Legal Service Authority within 30
 (thirty) days from the date of receipt of certified copy
 of this Order; VI. Respondents and all concerned are directed to ensure
 compliance of provisions of Section 16 of the PoSH Act,
 2013 in not publishing the identity and addresses of
 the persons involved in the matter. Copy of this order be communicated to Respondent No.3

 and concerned Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka for

 necessary action. The assistance rendered by Kum. Subiya Tasneem, Law

 Clerk cum Research Assistant is appreciated and placed on

 record. Sd/- (M.G.S. KAMAL)
 JUDGE

SBN/RU/RL