Shri Anil Kumar Mishra, Counsel for the Petitioner
Shri M.P.S. Raghuvanshi, Add. Advocate General for the State with
Investigating Officer
Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, present for assisting the
Court ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date of hearing : 17.06.2021
Date of order : . 23.06.2021
Whether approved for reporting : Yes

 Case was Heard through Video Conferencing
 Order
 (Passed on 23/06/2021) 1. This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has

been filed seeking the following relief(s) :- Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (III) That, respondent authority may kindly be directed to
 change Investigation Officer of the case, so the entire
 investigation would be completed in fair and impartial
 manner. (IV) That, respondent authority may kindly be directed
 to provide the protection to the prosecutrix and her entire
 family members in the interest of justice. Any other relief which this Hon'ble Court deems fit in the
 facts and circumstances of the case same may kindly be
 granted to the petitioner. 2. It is the case of the petitioner, that the prosecutrix has lodged

an F.I.R. in Crime No. 87/2021 for offence punishable under Sections

376 , 506 of I.P.C. and under Section 3(2)(va) , 3(1)(w)(ii) of

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)

Act, 1989, on the allegations that since 18-12-2020 She is living in

the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria on rent. She is doing the

household work of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. On 31-1-2021 at about 8

P.M., Aditya Bhadoria (Grand son of Ganga Singh Bhadoria) and his

friend came to her room. She was raped by friend of Aditya

Bhadoria, whereas Aditya Bhadoria was keeping a watch. While

returning back, they extended a threat that in case if the matter is

reported, then She will have to face dire consequences. It is

submitted that F.I.R. was lodged on 31-1-2021 at about 23:50 and

thereafter, the prosecutrix was illegally detained and her parents

were also detained by the concerned police personals and the

prosecutrix and her parents were subjected to cruelty. Therefore, the

cousin brother of the prosecutrix filed a Habeas Corpus Petition W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . which was registered as W.P. No. 2571 of 2021 and was disposed of

vide order dated 9-2-2021 and the prosecutrix was permitted to go

with her parents. The prosecutrix was produced before the Court

below for recording of her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.,

where also, She narrated the incident of beating. According to the

Adhar Card, since, the prosecutrix was minor, therefore, She was

deliberately sent to One Stop Center, Gwalior, though her parents

were present. 3. It is the case of the petitioner, that She (Prosecutrix) and her

parents were subject to harassment by the police and instead of

providing shelter to the prosecutrix, the police personals are

harassing her and her parents, thereby violating the fundamental

rights of the prosecutrix to live with dignity. Accordingly, the

petition has been filed seeking the above mentioned relief(s). 4. The respondents have filed their return. It is the claim of the

respondents that the investigation is going in a right direction in

proper manner and within the lines of law. Swift, speedy and proper

investigation is going on. Nothing as alleged in the writ petition is

being done by any of the Authority, investigating officer or any other

person against the prosecutrix or any other person. It is mentioned

that on 31-1-2021 at 9:40 P.M., a report was made to Dial 100 by

prosecutrix wherein She reported that two person came to her and

one of them committed rape on her. On 31-1-2021 itself, information W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . was received in the police station at 23:36 and the same was entered

in General Diary Reference at 23:50 and accordingly, F.I.R. was

lodged at 23:50. The mobile phone and Adhar Card of the

prosecutrix was recovered in which date of birth of the prosecutrix is

mentioned as 1-1-2007. Statement of prosecutrix was recorded and

was sent for medical examination along with lady Constable Ms.

Shivani Dubey. On the same date, Dr. Reena Saxena was informed

that the prosecutrix is minor and is aged about 15 years, therefore, in

absence of parents of the prosecutrix, the Doctor refused to carry out

her internal examination. A.S.I. Vishram Singh was sent to bring the

parents of the prosecutrix and the father of the prosecutrix, informed

that he has not met the prosecutrix for the last 2-3 years and refused

to give consent for her medical examination, as She was 19 years old.

The father of the prosecutrix also submitted a mark sheet of class 9 th

of the prosecutrix in which her date of birth was mentioned as 7-3-

2002. The admission register of the school was also summoned and

it was found that the date of birth of the prosecutrix is 7-3-2002 i.e.,

18 years and 10 months. Since, there was a discrepancy in the age of

the prosecutrix, therefore, Ms. Kirti Upadhyaya, was directed by

S.H.O. Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, to enquire as to why

the prosecutrix has disclosed her incorrect date of birth. Accordingly,

her statement was recorded once again, in which She informed that

she has lodged the F.I.R. in the pressure of Dharmendra Dhakad. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Accordingly, the statement of Dharmendra Dhakad was also recorded

who stated that the prosecutrix is the girl friend of his friend Shyamu

Sharma and the prosecutrix must have lodged the F.I.R. in the greed

of money. On the same day, the prosecutrix was sent to the Court of

J.M.F.C., Gwalior for recording of her statement under Section 164 of

Cr.P.C. She was got medically examined and the Doctor reported that

the prosecutrix has sustained eight simple injuries on various parts of

her body. The duration of these injuries was within 24 to 48 hours.

Aditya Bhadoria was searched but he was missing. Vaginal swab

draft was prepared on 12-2-2021 and was sent to Police Station

Morar for sending the same for F.S.L. examination. On 16-2-2021,

the accused persons were searched but they were not found. Again

on 18-2-2021, Aditya Bhadoria was searched but he was found

missing. On 24-2-2021, Aditya Bhadoria was searched but he was

missing. On 25-2-2021, the family members of Aditya Bhadoria

provided several documents to show that the allegations made against

Aditya Bhadoria are false and vexatious. They also gave

applications/representations to the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior

as well as Inspector General of Police, Gwalior. It is also mentioned

that a CD was also provided to show the presence of Sonu @

Sandeep in the Court premises. It is the case of the family members

of Aditya Bhadoria that Sonu @ Sandeep had allegedly murdered the

son of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, namely Sanjay Singh Bhadoria. It was W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . also claimed that since, Aditya Bhadoria and Ganga Singh Bhadoria

are the key witnesses in the case of murder of Sanjay Singh Bhadoria

therefore, it was claimed that in fact, Sonu @ Sandeep has cooked up

a false story of rape against Aditya Bhadoria. Accordingly, the

D.P.O. has been requested to provide the CCTV footage of the Court

premises. However, it was replied by the D.P.O., that there are only

two cameras in the Court premises and the footage can be obtained

by the permission of the District Judge. On 13-3-2021, on the basis

of DVD and DVR provided by Ganga Singh Bhadoria, the search of

Sanjay Nai was also carried out. Since, the family members of Aditya

Bhadoria are suspecting involvement of Shyamu Pandit and Sanjay

Nai, therefore endeavor is being made to trace them out. Call details

of the prosecutrix have also been obtained. 5. It is further claimed by the respondents, that since, the injuries

found on the body of the prosecutrix were not that of duration when

She was in the Police Station and therefore, the same cannot be

attributed to any police officer. After recording of her statement

under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., the prosecutrix was lodged in One Stop

Center, Gwalior. On 2-2-2021, the Doctor after medical examination

could not give any opinion, as to whether rape was committed on the

prosecutrix or not. On 4-2-2021, Ms. Priti Bhargav was instructed to

go to One Stop Center along with CSP Morar, where her statement

under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. was recorded in the presence of CSP W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Morar, Manju Mishra and Vasundara Bela, employees of One Stop

Center. The One Stop Center did not give consent to take the

prosecutrix to the place of incident. On 5-2-2021, the Special Judge,

Gwalior, granted permission to take the prosecutrix to the place of

incident and the prosecutrix provided the torn cloths. The filing of

habeas corpus petition was also admitted in the return. It is further

claimed that since, the prosecutrix is more than 18 years of age,

therefore, offence under POCSO Act has not been registered. 6. It is claimed that all the rights of the prosecutrix have been

protected and the respondents are ready and willing to produce the

complete case diary, as and when demanded. The investigation is

going on in a most honest manner. No atrocity has been committed. 7. On 16-6-2021, this case was directed to be listed on 17-6-2021

at the top of the list. 8. The case was taken up at 10:30 A.M. The Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior, investigating officer were present in the office of

Add. Advocate General. Since, the original case diary was with Add.

Advocate General, therefore, he was requested to provide the same in

PDF format, and accordingly, at the request of Shri Raghuvanshi, the

case was directed to be called at 1:00 P.M. At 1:00 P.M., it was

submitted by Shri Raghuvanshi that since, the diary is voluminous,

therefore, he may be permitted to sent the physical case diary.

Accordingly, Shri Raghuvanshi was directed to send the complete W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . case diary along with the proceedings recorded by the Police, and the

matter was directed to be called at 3:30 P.M. Shri Amit Sanghi,

Superintendent of Police, who was present in the office of Add.

Advocate General was asked that he may join the Court proceedings

from his office, through Video Conferencing. 9. Accordingly, the case was called at 3:30 P.M. and the hearing

continued till 8:00 P.M. 10. During the course of arguments, it was found that the police

has sent only two parts of police case diary and has not sent the

papers containing the action taken by the police. When this fact was

pointed out to Shri Raghuvanshi, then initially it was submitted that

complete case diary has been sent, but on repeated request by the

Court, the Investigating Officer, admitted that the part of the case

diary which contains the proceedings, maintained as per the

provisions of Regulation 742 of Police Regulations has not been sent.

When this Court expressed its displeasure on suppressing the material

documents, then the diary containing the proceedings of investigation

was also sent in a sealed cover. 11. Be that as it may. 12. During the Course of arguments, it was revealed that when the

prosecutrix informed the J.M.F.C., Gwalior about beating by the

police, then the J.M.F.C., Gwalior, immediately brought this fact to

the knowledge of the C.J.M., Gwalior who called the C.S.P., Gwalior W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . in Court and instructed to change the investigating officer and to send

the prosecutrix to a secured place. There was no direction to send the

prosecutrix to One Stop Center. However, the C.S.P., Morar, on his

own, sent the prosecutrix to One Stop Center instead of sending her

to the house of her parents. This conduct of C.S.P. Morar, shall be

considered in the later part of the order. 13. During the Course of arguments, C.S.P., Morar also joined the

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. During the course of arguments,

it was pointed out by Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that Add.

S.P., (East) is conducting an enquiry into the allegations of beating of

prosecutrix in the police station, and the enquiry report is expected to

be received within 3 to 4 days. However, looking to the controversy

involved in the matter, the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior was

directed to provide the complete file of Add. S.P. (East) regarding the

enquiry. Although the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior was

hesitant in providing the record on the pretext that the enquiry report

is expected to be received within 3-4 days, but later on provided the

file of Add. S.P. (East) in a sealed letter. Since, the prosecutrix had

firstly informed the Dial 100 about the incident, and She was taken to

Police Station by Dial 100, therefore, the relevant record of Dial 100

was also provided by the Superintendent of Police, in a sealed cover.

During the course of arguments, it was also found that the statements

of the witnesses have also been videographed, therefore, the Add. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Advocate General was directed to point out the Compact Disc

containing the statements of the witnesses. It was pointed out by Shri

Raghuvanshi, that the Pen drive/compact disc containing the

videography of statements of witnesses is not in the police case diary

and accordingly, sought some time to obtain the same from the lady

constable who had recorded the same. Later on, a pen drive

containing the videography of three statements of Prosecutrix, father

of the prosecutrix, Dharmendra Dhakad was sent in a sealed cover by

Shri Raghuvanshi, Add. Advocate General. During the course of

arguments, it was pointed out by Shri Raghuvanshi, that he is not in

possession of Rojnamcha Sanhas of Crime No. 87/2021 (present

case). Accordingly, he was directed to supply the same. However,

the same were not sent immediately, but on repeated reminders by the

Reader of this Court, the Rojnamcha Sanhas of Police Station Morar

were made available which contains only a part of investigation, but

the Rojnmacha Sanhas of Police Station Sirol were not made

available. It is not out of place to mention here that under the orders

of the C.J.M., Gwalior, the investigating officer was changed and

Smt. Priti Bhargava, S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior was

handed over investigation. Thus, this Court is not in possession of

the Rojnamcha Sanhas of investigation which was done from 3-2-

2021 onwards. Be that as it may be. 14. The controversy involved in the present case is that whether W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the police is conducting the investigation in a free and fair manner or

not? 15. Before considering the facts of the case, this Court thinks it

apposite to consider the scope of interference by this Court at the

stage of investigation. 16. The Supreme Court in the case of Manohar Lal Sharma Vs.

Union of India and others reported in (2014) 2 SCC 532 has held as

under : that inquiry/investigation into every accusation is made on a
 reasonable basis irrespective of the position and status of
 that person and the inquiry/investigation is taken to the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . logical conclusion in accordance with law. The monitoring
by the Court aims to lend credence to the
inquiry/investigation being conducted by CBI as premier
investigating agency and to eliminate any impression of
bias, lack of fairness and objectivity therein. 39. However, the investigation/inquiry monitored by the
court does not mean that the court supervises such
investigation/inquiry. To supervise would mean to observe
and direct the execution of a task whereas to monitor would
only mean to maintain surveillance. The concern and
interest of the court in such "Court-directed" or "Court-
monitored" cases is that there is no undue delay in the
investigation, and the investigation is conducted in a free
and fair manner with no external interference. In such a
process, the people acquainted with facts and circumstances
of the case would also have a sense of security and they
would cooperate with the investigation given that the
superior courts are seized of the matter. We find that in
some cases, the expression "Court-monitored" has been
interchangeably used with "Court-supervised
investigation". Once the court supervises an investigation,
there is hardly anything left in the trial. Under the Code, the
investigating officer is only to form an opinion and it is for
the court to ultimately try the case based on the opinion
formed by the investigating officer and see whether any
offence has been made out. If a superior court supervises
the investigation and thus facilitates the formulation of such
opinion in the form of a report under Section 173(2) of the
Code, it will be difficult if not impossible for the trial court
to not be influenced or bound by such opinion. Then trial
becomes a farce. Therefore, supervision of investigation by
any court is a contradiction in terms. The Code does not
envisage such a procedure, and it cannot either. In the rare
and compelling circumstances referred to above , the
superior courts may monitor an investigation to ensure that
the investigating agency conducts the investigation in a
free, fair and time-bound manner without any external
interference. * * * 61. At the outset, one must appreciate that a constitutional
court monitors an investigation by the State police or the
Central Bureau of Investigation (for short "CBI") only and
only in public interest. That is the leitmotif of a
constitutional Court-monitored investigation. No
constitutional court "desires" to monitor an inquiry or an W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . investigation (compendiously referred to hereinafter as "an
 investigation") nor does it encourage the monitoring of any
 investigation by a police authority, be it the State police or
 CBI. Public interest is the sole consideration and a
 constitutional court monitors an investigation only when
 circumstances compel it to do so, such as (illustratively) a
 lack of enthusiasm by the investigating officer or agency
 (due to "pressures" on it) in conducting a proper
 investigation, or a lack of enthusiasm by the Government
 concerned in assisting the investigating authority to arrive at
 the truth, or a lack of interest by the investigating authority
 or the Government concerned to take the investigation to its
 logical conclusion for whatever reason, or in extreme cases,
 to hinder the investigation. 17. Thus, it is clear that this Court in exercise of its power under Article 226 of Constitution of India, cannot supervise the

investigation, but can certainly monitor the investigation, in order to

find out as to whether the investigation is being done properly or not.

At the beginning of the arguments itself, it was made clear to the

Counsel for both the parties, that this Court will be confining itself to

the manner in which the police is conducting the investigation and

this Court will not touch any opinion, formed by the police so far, as

it may amount to "Supervision". Therefore, the Counsel for the

parties, have argued the case in the light of the limited scope of

interference by this Court. FACTS OF THE CASE 18. On 31-1-2021 at 23:50, F.I.R. in crime No. 87 of 2021 was

registered at Police Station Morar, Distt. Gwalior, although the

information in the police station was already received at 23:36. As W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . per the F.I.R., the prosecutrix disclosed her age as 15 years and

alleged that from 18-12-2020, she is residing in the house of Ganga

Singh Bhadoria on rent and is doing the work of dusting and

mopping. At about 8 P.M., Aditya Bhadoria and his friend came to

her rented premises and pushed her. The boy accompanying Aditya

Bhadoria committed rape on her and Aditya was standing there.

While going back, they extended a threat that in case if the incident is

narrated to any body then She will be killed. 19. On 31-1-2021 at 11:55 P.M., the mobile phone of the

prosecutrix, and her duplicate Adhar Card were seized. The

statement of prosecutrix under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. was recorded

on 31-1-2021 itself, in which She had repeated the allegations made

in the F.I.R. 20. On 31/1/2021, the prosecutrix was sent for medical

examination along with the application for medical examination. It is

important to mention here that in the application for medical

examination, there was no reference of any injuries on the body of the

prosecutrix. On 1-2-2021, Dr. Reena Saxena mentioned that since,

the girl has disclosed her age as 15 years and her parents are not

accompanying her, therefore, She cannot carry out her internal

examination. As per the Out Patient Record, the date and time of

registration is 1-2-2021 at 12:26:43. The police case diary also

contains the format of medical examination, according to which Dr. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Reena Saxena refused to carry out internal examination of the

prosecutrix at 2:20 A.M. (in the night) on 1-2-2021. 21. On 1-2-2021, the prosecutrix was produced before the Court of

J.M.F.C., Gwalior for examination of her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. which reads as under : 22. In view of the allegations made by the prosecutrix, the

J.M.F.C., Gwalior, immediately brought this fact to the knowledge of

the C.J.M., Gwalior, who also verified the allegations of beating from

the prosecutrix, who once again alleged that She was beaten by the

Police and accordingly, C.S.P. Morar, Gwalior was called in the Court

and was directed to take custody of the prosecutrix and was also

directed to get the prosecutrix medically examined under his

supervision and was further directed to keep the prosecutrix in a

secured place. The C.S.P., Morar was also directed to inform the

senior police officers. The copy of the order passed by C.J.M.,

Gwalior is in the police case diary. 23. Thereafter, the prosecutrix was sent for medical examination.

For the first time, the police in its requisition for medical

examination, wrote that the prosecutrix is alleging that She has

suffered injuries on her wrist, thighs of both legs, waist, knees and

back. In medical examination, the Doctor found 8 contusions on the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . body of the prosecutrix. This medical was conducted on 1-2-2021 at

7:45 P.M. However, the detailed examination of the prosecutrix was

not conducted, and accordingly, She was again sent for medical

examination, but according to the police, the prosecutrix refused to

undergo her internal examination. Although in the case diary, there is

no proceeding of 2-2-2021, but the case diary contains on more

medical certificate of the prosecutrix which was conducted on 2-2-

2021 at 09:30 P.M.. The Doctor has described the injuries as under : 24. Police Regulation No. 742 reads as under : All relevant facts discovered by questioning witnesses, or
 by personal research, all places visited and all measures
 taken from time to time by the investigating officer should
 be noted in the diary. The time at which the diary is
 commenced and the time when any particular action, such
 as arrest, search of a house, sending for an accused or
 witness, is taken should be regarded simultaneously with
 the setting down of the fact itself. (b)The case diary should show as concisely and clearly as
 possible what has been ascertained day by day and should
 not consist of a series of depositions of witnesses examined
 by the investigating officer. The recording of the statement
 of a witness in deposition form is not obligatory ( Section
 161 , Criminal Procedure Code). And should only be
 resorted to in the case of witnesses on the details of whose
 evidence much depends. Thus, should there be a question of
 the identification of an offender, the statements of the
 witnesses to such identification should be fully and
 carefully recorded. Again, in serious cases, it is, as a rule,
 desirable to take down the whole statement of every person
 who gives important information-especially every person
 who, from the circumstances of the case, ought to know
 something about it. For instance, when a person has been
 murdered at night in a house where other persons also liver,
 the statements of those other persons should be recorded in
 full. (c)Signing of a statement recorded - The only
 circumstances in which a statement taken down in writing
 by a police officer making an investigation is to be signed
 by the person making it are when the deponent is in a
 moribund condition and the statement is practically a dying
 declaration. If a magistrate is near at hand, and the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . declaration is one that in the event of the deceased's death
 would be relevant under Section 32 of the Indian Evidence
 Act, the magistrate should be asked to attend and record the
 statement of a dying person, in accordance with the
 provisions of Section 164 , Criminal Procedure Code.
 If the attendance of a magistrate cannot be secured, without
 the risk of such person's death before his statement can be
 recorded, the investigating officer will record the dying
 declaration in accordance with the following instructions:- 25. Thus, from plain reading of Regulation 742(a) of M.P. Police

Regulations, it is clear that while writing case diary, the investigating

officer has to write the time of every action. 26. But, in the present case, the case diary has been written in a W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . most casual manner and contrary to the provisions of Regulation 742

of M.P. Police Regulations. In the entire case diary, the timings of

every action taken by the investigating officer has not been

mentioned. Therefore, it is clear that the case diary has not been

maintained as per Regulation 742 of M.P. Police Regulations. 27. The case diary started from 31-1-2021, in which it is

mentioned that the F.I.R. was lodged at 23:36, whereas in the F.I.R.,

the time of lodging F.I.R. is 23:50. The case diary was written on 1-

2-2021 but the time is not mentioned. This Court is conscious of

provisions of Section 172 of Cr.P.C., therefore, would not refer the

diary proceedings in detail. But important aspects would be reflected

in the order. It is mentioned in the case diary proceedings that F.I.R.

has been lodged and information has been given to the Senior

Officers and copy of F.I.R. is being send to Magistrate. Thereafter,

the fact of seizure of Mobile and Duplicate Adhar card is mentioned.

It is also mentioned that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya has recorded

the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 161 of Cr.P.C, which

was videographed by Lady Constable Manisha Jadon. It is also

mentioned that the C.D. Of Videography is prepared and is kept in

Case diary, but as already pointed out, the Compact Disc of

Videography was not found in the case diary. Thereafter, there is a

reference of sending the prosecutrix for medical examination and

refusal by the Doctor due to the fact that the prosecutrix claims to be W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . minor and is not accompanied by their parents. Father of the

prosecutrix was summoned through A.S.I. Vishram Singh. Father of

the prosecutrix informed that the prosecutrix is not in touch with him

for the last 2-3 years and he has nothing to do with the prosecutrix. It

was also mentioned that he has refused to give consent for her

medical examination, because She is major. He also informed, that

he is in possession of marksheets of prosecutrix and photcopy of the

same were produced. The Caste Certificate was also included in the

case diary. It was also mentioned that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

was directed to interrogate the prosecutrix as to why She disclosed

her incorrect age. Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya informed on

telephone that the prosecutrix has admitted that She has lodged the

report under pressure of one Dharmendra Dhakad, however, the

prosecutrix has refused to undergo medical examination, and her

father has refused to give consent. It is also mentioned that the

prosecutrix has informed that in fact She was raped by Dharmendra

Dhakad. Accordingly, the prosecutrix was taken to the house of

Dharmendra Dhakad. Dharmendra Dhakad denied the charges and

has stated that the prosecutrix might be alleging against him for want

of money. Thereafter, the prosecutrix was once again interrogated in

front of Dharmendra Dhakad, and then She resiled from her second

statement and claimed that She was raped by one Hanif. Accordingly,

the supplementary statement of the prosecutrix was recorded and the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . same was videographed. Thereafter the prosecutrix was sent to Court

for her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. and at the time of

departure, the prosecutrix was saying that in fact She has been raped

by Rahul Sharma. The mobile of Dharmendra Dhakad was seized.

The lady Constable Pratibha Kushwaha informed that when She

reached the Court, then the J.M.F.C., Gwalior refused to record the

statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. When the constable came out

of the chamber of J.M.F.C., then 5-6 person surrounded the Constable

and the prosecutrix and one lawyer tried to take away the prosecutrix.

The unknown persons were saying that since, they have given money

to the prosecutrix, therefore, She has to give statement. Thereafter,

the Advocate took the prosecutrix inside the Court of J.M.F.C.. It is

also mentioned that the Advocate and the prosecutrix were inside the

Chamber of the J.M.F.C. Thereafter, She received the copy of the

statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. in sealed cover. Thereafter, on the instructions of C.J.M., the C.S.P., Morar reached

the Court and the prosecutrix was taken for medical examination.

After She came back, the C.S.P., Morar stated that since, the

prosecutrix has not been examined from rape point of view, therefore,

She should be taken again for medical examination. Again the

prosecutrix refused to give her consent for medical examination.

Thereafter, again she came back to the office of C.S.P., who

instructed her to leave the prosecutrix in One Stop Center and W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . accordingly, the CORONA test of the prosecutrix was got done and

she was left in One Stop Center. It is also mentioned that Court

Munshi had also informed the I.O., that Sonu @ Sandeep who is an

accused in Crime No. 750/17 is also in the Court and is pressurizing

the prosecutrix and he is being assisted by Govt. Pleader O.P.

Sharma. Accordingly Constable Satendra Chouhan was directed to

record the incident. However, before the incident could be recorded,

Sonu @ Sandeep went away. It is also mentioned that Constable

Satendra had informed that either Sonu or Govt. Pleader O.P. Sharma

has informed him that false case has been registered in order to put

pressure in the murder case. 28. It is also mentioned in the case diary proceedings that Ganga

Singh Bhadoria was called in the Police Station who informed that he

had let out the room at the monthly rent of Rs. 3500/-. He also

informed that if some body had come to his house, then it must have

got recorded in CCTV camera installed in his house. Therefore, he

was directed to see the CCTV footage. 29. Thus, it is clear that on 1-2-2021, Ganga Singh Bhadoria was

in the Police Station, and the case diary doesnot contain copy of any

notice sent to Ganga Singh Bhadoria, thereby requiring him to come

to Police Station. However, in her statement recorded under Section

164 of Cr.P.C., the prosecutrix has specifically stated that the T.I. had

called Ganga Singh Bhadoria. Thus, it is clear that the police had W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . called Ganga Singh Bhadoria in the police station immediately after

the F.I.R. was lodged. Whether prosecutrix had made any allegation against Ganga

Singh Bhadoria in her statement recorded under Section 161 of

Cr.P.C. on 31-1-2021. 30. The police case diary contains the statement of the prosecutrix

which was recorded on 31-1-2021 and in the statement, no allegation

against Ganga Singh Bhadoria is mentioned. However, in her

statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., the prosecutrix has stated that

after She raised an alarm, Ganga Singh Bhadoria also came on the

spot and closed the door and by calling her by Caste name, threatened

her not to disclose the incident to any body, otherwise, She will have

to face dire consequences. The moot question is that whether Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya had rightly recorded the statement of the prosecutrix

on 31-1-2021 or has manipulated the same by not mentioning the

allegations against Ganga Singh Bhadoria. 31. The statement of the prosecutrix was also videographed and

the same has been provided in a Pen Drive. This Court has seen the

video clipping. In the said statement, the prosecutrix has specifically

leveled allegations against Ganga Singh Bhadoria. It has been stated

by the prosecutrix that after kicking the rapist, She raised an alarm.

Ganga Singh Bhadoria came there and thereafter the boy who had W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . committed rape ran away. Ganga Singh Bhadoria also scolded Aditya

that "what has been done by him" and thereafter locked the door.

Thereafter, by calling her by Caste Name, threatened that in case if

the prosecutrix tells to anybody then She will be killed. For the

reasons best known to Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, the allegations

made against Ganga Singh Bhadoria were not mentioned in the

statement of the prosecutrix, but even Ganga Singh Bhadoria was

also called in the police station and was allowed to go away. Further

from the video clipping it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

was simply interrogating the prosecutrix and was not writing her

statement. 32. Police Headquarter, State of Madhya Pradesh has issued

circular No. File No.1-01/Pu.Mu./Ati.M.N./Ni.S/Parpatra/45/2019/

dated 7-3-2019 which deals with guidelines for investigation in the

matters of rape. Clause (5) of above mentioned circular reads as

under : 33. From the video clipping of statement under Section 161 of

Cr.P.C. recorded on 31-1-2021, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya was not reducing her statement in writing and was simply W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . asking questions. Thus, the manner of video recording of statement

of the prosecutrix was also not in accordance with circulars issued by

the Police Head Quarter. 34. Thus, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya has

manipulated the statement of the prosecutrix, and has written her

statement as per her wishes. Therefore, it is clear that right from the

very beginning, the police had started manipulating the things. 35. On the instructions of the Court, the Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior has provided the record of FRV dial 100. This document

was made available on 18-6-2021 i.e., on the next day of hearing as

the record was to be summoned from Bhopal. 36. From the Event record of FRV, it is clear that on 31-1-2021, at

20:29:09, the prosecutrix called Dial 100 and informed about rape. In

the initial information given to Dial 100, it was alleged that Aditya

Bhadoria has raped her and has locked her inside the room. After

various attempts to send SMS to PS Morar, C.S.P Morar and FRV, the

information to FRV Unit Gwl 43 was given at 20:30:35 on 31-1-

2021. At 20:32:33, information was given to S.H.O., P.S. Morar on

his mobile, C.S.P., Morar was also informed at 20:35:30. SMSs were

successfully sent to Mobile No. 8085188394, 7587612701,

7587600013, 9425964313 and 947993002. At 20:36:53, information

was given to CSP Morar. The phone of M.2 (Most Probably Add.

S.P.) was busy. The ASP was thereafter informed at 20:46:28, who W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . informed that Morar area doesnot fall within his jurisdiction.

Information was given to M.2 (Most Probably Add. S.P. are called as

M.2). At 20:51:48, FRV informed that they have reached on the

place of incident. FRV gave further information that the complainant

has been brought to Police Station at 21:04:49 and the event was

closed at 21:41:48. 37. Thus, it is clear that the S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay

Singh Pawar, C.S.P., Morar, M.2 were already informed about the

incident by head quarter of dial 100 at 20:32:33. Thus, when the

complainant reached police station on FRV Dial 100, the police was

already aware of the incident. Therefore, the police had ample time

to manipulate the things, and therefore, the Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhaya deliberately omitted the allegations against Ganga Singh

Bhadoria in the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section

161 of Cr.P.C. Since, no information was given by Dial 100 to Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, but information of incident was given to

S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, C.S.P. Morar and

M.2, therefore, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya must

have been instructed by any of the above mentioned three officers. 38. Thus, it is clear that for the reasons best known to S.H.O.,

Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, C.S.P., Morar and M.2, the

things had already started working against the prosecutrix.

Whether allegations made against Ganga Singh Bhadoria in W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . videographed statement of prosecutrix discloses commission of

any offence 39. It is the allegation of the prosecutrix that, after locking her

inside the room, Ganga Singh Bhadoria shouted from outside and by

calling her by her caste name, threatened her not to disclose the

incident to any body, otherwise, She will be killed. 40. It is clear that when the prosecutrix was humiliated and

insulted by calling her by her caste name, Ganga Singh Bhadoria was

outside the house, whereas the prosecutrix was inside the house.

Thus, it is clear that Ganga Singh Bhadoria was in a place which was

withing public view. Thus, it is clear that prima facie offence under Section 3(1)(r) ,(s) of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is

made out. Further, by extending threat to kill her, Ganga Singh

Bhadoria had also prima facie committed the offence of intimidation

under Section 506 Part 2 of I.P.C. Whether the F.I.R. was lodged promptly or the prosecutrix was

made to wait in the Police Station. 41. The prosecutrix has alleged in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., that when She reached police station, She was made to

wait for long time and only thereafter, her F.I.R. was lodged. 42. If the record of F.R.V. Unit 43 Gwl is considered, then it is

clear that the prosecutrix was left in the Police Station Morar by

F.R.V., at 21:04:09, whereas the F.I.R. was lodged at 23:50 i.e., after W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . approximately 3 hours. It is mentioned in the F.I.R., that the

information of incident was received in police station at 23:36,

whereas the headquarter of Dial 100 had already informed the S.H.O.,

Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, C.S.P., Morar and M.2 at

about 22:32:33. Further more, the prosecutrix had already reached

the Police Station at 21:04:09. Thus, it is clear that the police

deliberately did not lodge the F.I.R., and compelled the prosecutrix to

wait in the police station for approximately for 3 hours in the night. 43. Thus, it is clear that the F.I.R. was not lodged promptly and all

efforts were made by the police to harass the prosecutrix with an

oblique motive. The fact that Ganga Singh Bhadoria was also called

in the Police Station to put forward his defence, clearly indicates the

reason as to why police officers were harassing and humiliating the

prosecutrix. Not only that, the police had also manipulated the

official record i.e., statement of prosecutrix recorded under Section

161 of Cr.P.C. Whether the prosecutrix had any injury on her body at the time

of her Medical Examination on 1-2-2021 at 2:20 A.M.? 44. According to police case diary, the prosecutrix was sent for

medical examination. Requisition form for her medical examination

which was prepared on 1-2-2021 i.e., intervening night of 31-1-2021

and 1-2-2021 is also in the case diary. It is mentioned in the

requisition form as under : 45. There is no mention of any injuries on the body of the

prosecutrix. Further, the case diary contains the printed format of

medical examination. The columns for description of injuries are

blank. The printed prescription contains the following remark of the

Doctor : 46. The above mentioned note reveals that the Doctor had refused

to conduct the internal examination of the prosecutrix in absence of

her parents, but for medical examination of the body of the

prosecutrix in order to find out any external injury except on private

part, no consent was required. Had the Doctor found any injury on

the body of the prosecutrix (Except Private Part), then She would

have certainly mentioned the same in her medical report. Thus, it is

clear that on 1-2-2021 at the time of examination of the prosecutrix

by the Doctor Reena Saxena, the prosecutrix did not have any injury

on her body. 47. Further, the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. on 31-1-2021 was also videographed, and

apparently no injury is visible on her face (This should not be treated W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . as finding and it is a matter of enquiry/investigation/trial). There is

no mention of any injury in the case diary. Thus, it is clear that on

31-1-2021, when the prosecutrix came to Police Station, there was no

injury on her body. Whether the prosecutrix was kept in the police station after her

medical examination? 48. On 1-2-2021 at 2:20 A.M. in the night, the Doctor had seen the

prosecutrix and had refused to carry out her internal examination in

absence of her guardians/parents. In the case diary, there is no

mention that after returning back from hospital, whether the

prosecutrix was allowed to go or where She was kept. However, one

thing is clear that the father of the prosecutrix was called in the police

station in the morning. 49. After taking instructions from the Investigating Officer, it is

submitted by Shri M.P.S. Raghuvavnshi, Add. Advocate General, that

the prosecutrix was brought back from the hospital at 4 A.M. in the

morning. Since, the house of the father of the prosecutrix is situated

at a distance of 25 Kms from the police station, therefore the

prosecutrix was kept in Urja desk, which is situated in Police Station

itself. However, he fairly conceded that this fact of keeping the

prosecutrix in Urja desk in the night is not mentioned in the case

diary. However, it is mentioned that this fact is mentioned in

Rojnamchan Sanha dated 1-2-2021. During the course of arguments, W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . it was replied by Shri Raghuvanshi, that the prosecutrix came back to

Police Station at 4 AM, whereas the Rojnamchasanha dated 1-12-

2021 discloses that the prosecutrix was brought back to Police

Station at 2:54 A.M. Thus, the submissions made by Add. Advocate

General on the instructions of the Investigating Officer doesnot tally

with record. Thus, the authenticity of Rojnamhasanha also comes

under cloud. Therefore, the verbal submission of Shri Raghuvanshi

that the prosecutrix was kept in the Urja desk cannot be accepted.

Thus, it is clear that the prosecutrix was kept in the Police Station in

the night, without any authority of law. Even otherwise,

undisputedly, Urja Desk is also inside the Police Station. 50. Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, fairly

conceded that this act of the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh

Pawar and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya was contrary to law and

the prosecutrix should not have been kept in the police station in the

night. Thus, it is clear that S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh

Pawar and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya had not only manipulated

the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 161 of

Cr.P.C., but they also illegally detained the prosecutrix in the police

station for the whole night. Shri Raghuvanshi, Add. Advocate

General submitted that since, the house of the father of the

prosecutrix was 25 kms away from the Police Station, therefore, she

was kept in Urja Desk. However, this explanation cannot be said to W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . be plausible and appears to be an after thought. If the S.H.O., Police

Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar was of the view that it was not

possible to send the prosecutrix to the house of her father, then he

should have taken permission from the Court of Competent

Jurisdiction after informing the Senior Officers and should have

mentioned this fact in the case diary. But nothing was done. Further,

every police station has been allotted four wheelers, therefore, it is

incorrect to say that it was not possible to send the prosecutrix to the

house of her father in the night. It is also not the case of the police,

that the prosecutrix had ever refused to go to the house of her father.

On the contrary, it is the case of the respondents themselves, that the

father of the prosecutrix was informed in the morning and thereafter

he came to Police Station. Thus, it is clear that the police officers

were treating the prosecutrix as an accused.

(Whether videography of statement of Ganga Singh Bhadoria

was necessary or not? 51. The Police Head Quarter in its circular No. File

No./Paripatra/A.M.Ni./Mahila apradh/323/2017 dated 9-11-2017 has

directed as under : 52. Another circular dated 7-3-2019 has already been reproduced

earlier. As per Police Circular dated 7-3-2019, the I.O. must get the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . videography of statements of the prosecutrix and the witnesses. As

per the police case diary dated 1-2-2021, Ganga Singh Bhadoria was

called in the police station and he had given his defence. There is no

difference between Prosecution witness or Defence witness.

Although there were allegations against Ganga Singh Bhadoria, but

that allegation was deliberately omitted by Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya in the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section

161 of Cr.P.C. Further, the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh

Pawar, had interrogated Ganga Singh Bhadoria as a witness. Then

why the videography of the statement of Ganga Singh Bhadoria was

not done by the police? Thus, it is clear that the police was not acting

with clean hands and was acting in accordance with their whims and

wishes. Be that as it may. Why two supplementary statements of the prosecutrix were

recorded on 1-2-2021? 53. Another important aspect of the matter is that Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya had recorded the supplementary statements of the

prosecutrix twice on 1-2-2021. As per the police case diary, Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhayay was directed to interrogate the prosecutrix

as to why She disclosed her wrong age. But if the supplementary

statement of the prosecutrix recorded on 1-2-2021 is considered, then

it is clear that no interrogation was done from the prosecutrix as to

why She had disclosed incorrect date of birth. Not a single word W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . regarding disclosure of wrong date of birth were asked, but Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya again and again insisted the prosecutrix to

tell about incident. Two supplementary statements of prosecutrix

were recorded on 1-2-2021 and the same were also videographed. 54. Thus, it is clear that clarification given in case diary for

recording of supplementary police statements is incorrect and

misleading. 55. As per the statement of prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., Ganga Singh Bhadoria was called in the police station, and

thereafter, the prosecutrix was beaten by a lady police officer.

Thereafter, She was taken upstairs where She was beaten by 6-7 lady

police constables by belt. Thereafter, She was brought downstairs

and her supplementary statements under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. were

recorded. Thereafter again She was beaten by police personals

including Male Police personals. Thus, it is clear from the statement

of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., the

prosecutrix was beaten before recording of her supplementary

statements. 56. The Doctor in the medical examination conducted on 2-2-2021

at 9:30 P.M., had found multiple bruises on B/L thigh and

tenderness. The Doctor had also found swelling on B/L thigh. The

Doctor had also found swelling on face (lt. Side) and in the column

of Facial bone injury, it was once again mentioned that tenderness W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . was found on left cheek bone. Thus, it is clear that on 2-2-2021 at

9:30 P.M., the Doctor had found multiple bruises and swelling on B/L

thigh and left cheek and mild tenderness behind the ears. Thus, it is

clear that the prosecutrix was beaten in a standing condition,

therefore, multiple bruises were found on B/L thigh. It also appears

that the prosecutrix was slapped also, therefore, bruises and swelling

was found on left cheek and tenderness was found behind her ears.

The pattern of injuries found on the body of the prosecutrix is

indicative of fact that the prosecutrix was helpless and was in

standing condition without any motion, and She was being beaten

mercilessly. One thing is clear that on 31-1-2021, when the

prosecutrix came to Police Station for lodging of F.I.R., there was no

injury on her body and when She was produced before the J.M.F.C.,

Gwalior, she had made complaint of beating by police personals and

same allegation was repeated in the Court of C.J.M., Gwalior and in

the M.L.C., bruises and contusions were found on the body of the

prosecutrix. Thus, prima facie, the allegation of beating of

prosecutrix in police custody appears to be correct. However, before

drawing any conclusion, this Court would like to consider other

important aspects of the matter. 57. According to police case diary proceedings, on 1-2-2021, when

the prosecutrix was sent again for the purposes of medical

examination, She refused to undergo medical examination of her W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . private part. The case diary also contains the medical report dated 2-

2-2021. Thus, it is clear that the prosecutrix was also sent to Hospital

by the police on 2-2-2021 for her medical examination, but the police

case diary doesnot contain any proceedings of 2-2-2021. The last

proceeding of 1-2-2021 is written on page no. 154 and the next

proceedings are of 3-2-2021 which is on page no. 155. 58. As already pointed out, the police had recorded three

statements of the prosecutrix i.e., first on 31-1-2021, supplementary

statement on 1-2-2021 and 2nd supplementary statement on 1-2-2021

itself. As already pointed out, there is nothing in the case diary to

indicate that at what time, the statement/supplementary statements of

the prosecutrix were recorded. However, from the supplementary

statements of the prosecutrix, it appears that in her 1 st supplementary

statement, she had narrated that infact she was raped by Dharmendra

Dhakad, and thereafter, in her second supplementary statement, She

stated that infact She was raped by one Haneef. 59. If the videography of statement of the prosecutrix in which She

had stated that She was raped by Dharmendra is seen, then it is clear

that the videography was done from the right side of the prosecutrix,

therefore, her right cheek is visible, but her left cheek is not visible.

Further as the prosecutrix had taken Chunni on her head, therefore,

back side of her ear is not visible. Why videography was done from

one angle is best known to the police personals. One of the reason W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . might be that the police must be trying to hide the swelling of the

prosecutrix on her left cheek. Be that whatever it may be. 60. One thing is clear from the video clipping that Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya did not reduce her statement in writing and was

taking notes. Thus, it is clear that method of taking statement of the

prosecutrix was not in accordance with settled principle of law as

well as the police circular dated 7-3-2019. If the supplementary

statement of the prosecutrix recorded by Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya is compared with the video clipping of the statement of

the prosecutrix, then it is clear that her statement was not reduced in

writing in its entirety. The prosecutrix did not utter the name of

Aditya in her statement, but it was Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya,

who was suggesting the name of Aditya. Further, the prosecutrix did

not say that Dharmendra had instigated her to falsely implicate

Aditya in F.I.R., but that is mentioned in the statement of the

prosecutrix. Thus, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya was

out and out to manipulate the record. Further, the prosecutrix was

looking terrified and the manner of asking question was also rude.

Be that as it may. 61. According to the police case diary, the prosecutrix was taken to

the house of Dharmendra Dhakad and both were brought back to

Police Station, where the statement of Dharmendra Dhakad was

recorded and was also videographed. Dharmendra Dhakad denied W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the allegation of rape and on the question put by Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya, he replied, that the prosecutrix might be alleging against

him for want of money. According to case diary, the prosecutrix and

Dharmendra Dhakad were interrogated in presence of each other and

thereafter, Prosecutrix resiled from her second supplementary

statement and alleged that in fact She was raped by Haneef.

Accordingly, her third supplementary statement was recorded. The

video clipping of third supplementary statement is also available. In

this video clipping the prosecutrix is apparently looking in a terrified

condition. Shri Raghuvanshi was also directed to point out as to

whether any swelling is visible on her face or not, then he submitted

that since, there is a light in the background, therefore, he is not in a

position to say that whether there is any swelling on the face of the

prosecutrix or not. Further, the prosecutrix was not fluent in

answering the questions. She was thinking and was taking time in

answering the question, which clearly indicates that She was under 62. There is another aspect of the matter, which cannot be ignored. 63. After the prosecutrix made complaint regarding her beating by

the police personals, the C.J.M. took cognizance of her complaint and

directed the C.S.P. Morar to change the investigating officer and to

provide adequate protection. This order was placed before

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior who in his turn, directed the Add.

S.P., Smt. Suman Gurjar to enquire into matter. As already pointed,

initially Superintendent of Police, Gwalior submitted that enquiry is

still pending and the enquiry report shall be produced within 3-4 days

and only on the repeated directions by this Court, the enquiry file W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . pending before Add. S.P., Ms. Suman Gurjar was provided to the

Court. 64. According to the file of enquiry into the allegation of beating

by the police personals with the prosecutrix is concerned, that gives a

very hopeless image of Police Personals working in the District of

Gwalior. 65. From the file, it is clear that on 2-2-2021, the Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior, directed Smt. Suman Gurjar, Add. Superintendent of

Police (East), Gwalior to conduct an enquiry and submit the report

within 5 days. On 3-2-2021, Smt. Suman Gurjar, Add. S.P. (East),

marked the letter of the Superintendent of Police, to her reader and

directed for obtaining report from C.S.P. Morar. 66. On 4-2-2021, a letter was sent to Shri Ram Naresh Pachouri,

C.S.P., Morar to conduct an enquiry. The C.S.P., Morar, recorded the

statements of the prosecutrix as well as Police Personals. After

reproducing the statements of the witnesses, it is mentioned by C.S.P.,

Morar, that the CCTV cameras of P.S. Morar are out of order from

25-7-2020 and therefore, the footage of the police station could not

be obtained. Thereafter, the C.S.P., directly jumped to a conclusion

that the allegation of beating by police is false. The conclusion

drawn by C.S.P., Morar, Gwalior reads as under : 67. In the meanwhile, the cousin brother of the prosecutrix had

filed a habeas corpus petition which was registered as W.P. No. 2571

of 2021, and the corpus was produced before the Division Bench of

this Court through Video Conferencing and expressed her willingness

to move to her parental home and accordingly She was released from

One Stop Center and was permitted to stay with her parents. In the

habeas Corpus petition also, allegations of maltreatment were made.

While disposing of the writ petition, it was observed by the Division

Bench as under : 68. In the light of the observations, the Add.S.P. (East) wrote

another letter dated 25-2-2021 to C.S.P., Morar to enquire into the

matter in the light of the observations made by this Court. Reminders W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . were sent on 24-3-3021, 15-4-2021,18-5-2021. By letter dated 7-4-

2021, the C.S.P., Morar informed the Add. S.P. (East) that the

explanation of S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar was

taken on the following issues : 69. After taking explanation, it was opined that the explanation of

S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, Distt. Gwalior is not

satisfactory. 70. Thereafter, it appears that on 4-6-2021, the C.S.P., Morar again

submitted his report. This report is nothing but a verbatim

reproduction of first report. In this report also, no reasons have been

assigned and the C.S.P., Morar, after reproducing the statements of

the witnesses, directly came to conclusion that there is no evidence of

beating in the police station. Surprisingly, the Add. S.P. (East)

instead of taking further action on the report, directed her Reader to

place before her for appreciation of evidence. This endorsement was

made on 4-6-2021 and thereafter nothing was done by Add. S.P. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (East). It is really surprising that when the Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior had entrusted the enquiry to Add. S.P. (East) because of

serious allegations of beating by police personals were made by the

rape victim, but still the Add. S.P. (East) took the matter in a most

casual manner and forwarded the letter of the Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior to C.S.P., Morar for enquiry. Further, the C.S.P.,

Morar, by reproducing the statements of the witnesses, merely said

that there is no evidence of beating of rape victim in the police

station. 71. Further more, the conduct of the Add. S.P. (East) in taking the

matter in a most casual and irresponsible manner became more

serious, as Chair Person, National Commission For Women, had

taken cognizance of news clipping published in the news paper

"Hindustan Times" and had written a letter to Shri Vivek Johri,

Director General of Police to submit the action taking report/status

report before the National Commission For Women. The letter

written by Chairperson, National Commission For Women to Shri

Vivek Johri, Inspector General of Police, State Of Madhya Pradesh is

enclosed in the police case diary. 72. It is really shocking that inspite of the most casual and

irresponsible attitude of Add. S.P. (East) in dealing with such a

serious allegation, the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, submitted

before the Court, that the enquiry report shall be produced within 3-4 W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . days. Add.S.P. (East) did not do anything in the enquiry. Not a single

finding was recorded by Smt. Suman Gurjar Add. S.P. (East). She

even did not care to talk to the prosecutrix. This shows that the

police officers have no respect for the dignity, life and liberty of rape

victims and have no respect for the Court (as direction was given by

C.J.M.) and have no respect for National Commission For Women,

who had sought report from D.G.P., State of Madhya Pradesh. It is a

serious situation, which requires immediate action so that the

innocent citizens of India may not further suffer at the hands of the

irresponsible police officers. 73. There is another aspect of the matter. C.S.P., Morar had

recorded the statements of Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and Lady

Constable Manisha Jadon, who tried to explain the presence of

injuries on the body of the complainant. Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya had stated that She had already noticed abrasions on the

body of the prosecutrix. Lady Constable Manisha Jadon has also

stated that at the time videography of statement of the prosecutrix,

She had noticed abrasions on the body of the prosecutrix. 74. So far as the statement of Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, Lady

Constable (who had videographed the statement of the prosecutrix) is

concerned, it is palpably incorrect. This Court has already seen the

video clippings of the statements of the prosecutrix. Her entire body

is covered. No abrasion or bruise is visible. Even otherwise, most of W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the injuries were found on the thighs of both legs. Unless and until,

the cloths are removed, the injuries could not have been noticed

either by Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and Lady Constable

Manisha Jadon. Further, there was no reason for the above

mentioned police officers not to mention the presence of injuries in

the police case diary. Further, in the requisition form which was

prepared in the night of 31-1-2021 for medical examination of the

prosecutrix, there is no reference to the injuries. Thus, it is clear that

Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and Lady Constable Manisha Jadon

had given false statement in the enquiry, and that was conveniently

accepted by the C.S.P., Morar. Further, the stand of S.H.O., Police

Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

as well as Lady Constable Manisha Jadon are self contradictory. In

report dated 7-4-2021, C.S.P., Morar has mentioned that as per the

defence of S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, since, the

entire body of the prosecutrix was covered, therefore, her injuries

were not visible. 75. Thus, viewed from every angle, it is held that the prosecutrix

was mercilessly beaten by the police personals in the police station,

so that She can withdraw her allegations against Aditya Bhadoria. At

the cost of repetition, it is once again mentioned that even the Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, did not mention the allegations made by

the prosecutrix against Ganga Singh Bhadoria in her statement under W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Section 161 of Cr.P.C. Further, the prosecutrix was not allowed to

leave the police station, and She was kept (In fact it can be said that

She was detained) in the police station for the whole intervening

night of 31-1-2021 and 1-2-2021 and thereafter, the prosecutrix was

kept (in fact it can be said that She was detained) in the police station

for the whole day on 1-2-2021. 76. Now the next question for consideration is that who are the

persons who are responsible for beating of the prosecutrix.

Undisputedly, the Investigating Officer Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya is responsible and that is why, even the C.J.M., Gwalior

had directed for change of Investigating Officer. Further S.H.O.,

Police Station Ajay Singh Pawar is also responsible because the

prosecutrix has alleged in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.,

that before coming to the Court, the T.I. had threatened her to depose

according to their directions, otherwise, She has to come back to the

Police Station, therefore, it is clear that the prosecutrix was beaten

with the permission of S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh

Pawar. The prosecutrix could not disclose the name of any wrongdoer

who had beaten her. It is a matter of enquiry to find out the names of

the lady constables who were on duty in the police station on 1-2-

2021. As the prosecutrix has also stated that She was also beaten by

Male Constables, therefore, it is necessary to find out the names of

those Male constables. Accordingly, the investigating agency is W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . directed to conduct Test Identification Parade to trace out the

assailants. Why the prosecutrix was sent to One Stop Center and who had

given such order? 77. The C.S.P., Morar, had joined the Court proceedings on his

own along with Superintendent of Police,Gwalior. The Police Case

diary reveals that after the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded

under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., the C.J.M., Gwalior directed C.S.P.,

Morar to keep the prosecutrix in a secured place. There is no

direction that the prosecutrix should be lodged in One Stop Center. 78. The case diary proceedings reveals that the prosecutrix was

sent to One Stop Center on the orders of the C.S.P., Morar. However,

the case diary doesnot contain any written order of C.S.P. Morar. It

appears that the prosecutrix was lodged in One Stop Center, Gwalior

on the verbal orders of C.S.P., Morar. 79. When C.S.P., Morar was asked by the Court as to why the

prosecutrix was sent to One Stop Center, Gwalior and why not to her

parental home, then it was submitted by C.S.P., Morar, that there was

an oral order by C.J.M., Gwalior. This reply given by C.S.P., Morar

cannot be accepted. Courts never give any oral order. Once, the

C.J.M., Gwalior had written an order that the prosecutrix be kept in a

secured place, then there was no difficulty for him to give a specific

direction to lodge the prosecutrix in One Stop Center. Thus, it is W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . clear that the explanation given by C.S.P. Morar, Gwalior is false and

is hereby rejected. 80. Thus, it is clear that after detaining the prosecutrix for the

whole intervening night of 31-1-2021 and 1-2-2021, She was forcibly

detained in the Police Station for the entire day, and thereafter, She

was sent to One Stop Center. Thus, the entire effort of the police was

to keep the prosecutrix away from the entire world.

Whether Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya had correctly recorded

the statement of Dharmendra Dhakad 81. The respondents have also provided the video clippings of the

statement of Dharmendra Dhakad. In his statement, Dharmendra

Dhakad has no where stated that about one month back, he had

attended a Paneer Party in the room of the prosecutrix, but in his

statement recorded under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., the Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya, has added certain allegations on her own. Further,

from the video clipping, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Dhakad is

not visible. As per the Police Circulars, the Investigating Officer

should also be visible, and the paper on which the statement is being

recorded, should also be visible. But in this Video Clipping, since,

the Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya is not visible, therefore, it is not

clear as to whether She was writing the statement of Dharmendra

Dhakad or not? But one thing is clear that the statements of the

witnesses under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. should be recorded verbatim W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . and the investigating officer, cannot write the statements on his own.

Thus, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhayay has added certain

allegations in the statement of Dharmendra Dhakad on her own.

Thus, She is prima facie guilty of manipulating the official record.

Whether Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya had rightly recorded

the statement of father of the prosecutrix ? 82. The video clipping of statement of father of the prosecutrix has

also been provided. If the statement of father of the prosecutrix

written by Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and the video clippings are

compared, then it is clear that the demeanor of father of prosecutrix is

not mentioned in the statement under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. Further,

it is also found that the statement of the father of the prosecutrix was

not written verbatim. Due to noise in the background, the audio of

video clipping of the statement of father of prosecutrix is not good,

but one thing is clear that he was taking long pause in between his

two sentences. He also doesnot appear to be very comfortable while

giving statement. Thus, it is clear that Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya has manipulated the official record.

Whether the S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar has

tried to level allegations against the J.M.F.C., Gwalior in order to

get over the allegations of beating in the police station? 83. It is mentioned in the case diary proceedings that the

prosecutrix was sent to the Court along with Lady Constable W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Pratibha. It is also mentioned that after coming back, Lady Constable

Pratibha informed that earlier the J.M.F.C. Gwalior, refused to record

the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.

Accordingly, when She came out of the chamber of the J.M.F.C.,

Gwalior, She and the prosecutrix were surrounded by 5-6 unknown

persons and they started insisting that the statement of the prosecutrix

must be recorded and accordingly, one Advocate took the prosecutrix

in the chamber of the J.M.F.C, Gwalior, where the statement of the

prosecutrix was recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. Thus, it is

alleged against the J.M.F.C., Gwalior, that although She was not

inclined to record the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., but under the pressure of an Advocate, her statements were

recorded. 84. From the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section

164 of Cr.P.C., it is clear that the J.M.F.C., Gwalior has not recorded

any thing about pressure by any Advocate. Further, it is well known

that J.M.F.C., Gwalior cannot refuse to record the statement of the

prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. 85. While making allegations against the J.M.F.C., Gwalior, the

Police has also recorded in the Police Case Diary, that Govt Pleader

O.P. Sharma, forcibly took the prosecutrix inside the Chamber of the

J.M.F.C., Gwalior and got her statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. It is also mentioned in the police case diary that Shri O.P. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Sharma, Govt. Pleader is hands in glove with Sonu Sharma who is

behind the scene. 86. Therefore, it is clear that in order to fulfill their ill designs, the

police officers were not only beating the prosecutrix, but they have

gone to the extent of leveling allegations against the J.M.F.C.,

Gwalior as well as against O.P. Sharma, Govt. Pleader.

Whether the S.H.O., had travelled beyond his jurisdiction by

directing the D.P.O. to provide video footage of CCTV Cameras

installed in Court premises. 87. From the case diary proceedings, it is clear that on 9-3-2021

the S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior wrote a letter to

D.P.O.,, directing him to provide the CCTV footage of the Court

premises. The copy of the letter has been filed along with the Return

and is at page 190. It is also mentioned in the case diary proceedings

that D.P.O. has verbally informed that there are only two cameras in

the Court premises, and the CCTV footage of the same can be

obtained after taking due permission from District Judge. 88. When the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior was asked as to

whether the Investigating Officer/S.H.O., Sirol, Distt. Gwalior can

direct the D.P.O. to provide the CCTV footage of the Cameras

installed inside the Court premises, then it is rightly submitted by

Shri Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that such type of

letter written by S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior was W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . clearly out of her jurisdiction. If the investigating officer was of the

view that the CCTV footage of any camera installed inside the Court

premises is necessary for investigation, then the I.O., should have

brought this fact to the knowledge of the Superintendent of Police,

and the letter of request would have been sent by Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior, to the District Judge, Gwalior. But in no

circumstances, the I.O., could have directed the D.P.O. to provide

CCTV footage of Cameras installed inside the Court premises. 89. Thus, it is clear that in order to fulfill the ill designs of the

police authorities, the Investigating Officer, had not only gone to the

extent of leveling false allegations against the Judicial Officers, but

they also travelled beyond their jurisdiction by directing the D.P.O.,

to provide the CCTV footage of cameras installed within the Court

premises. Whether there is any difference in the Medial Opinion given by

the Doctors in relation to the injuries sustained by the prosecutrix 90. The prosecutrix was sent for medical examination for four

times i.e.,

(I) In the intervening night of 31-1-2021 and 1-2-2021, but the

Doctor refused to carry out internal examination of the prosecutrix.

However, under the orders of the Court, the prosecutrix was sent for

medical examination on 1-2-2021. As per M.L.C. report, 8

contusions were found on different parts of the body of the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . prosecutrix like face, left forearm, right wrist, right lumber region,

left thigh, neck etc. Again She was sent for medical examination at

10:30 P.M. on 1-2-2021 and it is alleged that the prosecutrix refused

to undergo the medical examination of her private parts. 91. However, another medical examination of the prosecutrix was

conducted on 2-2-2021 at 9:30 P.M., and the Doctor did not find any

abrasion, but multiple bruises were found over B/L thighs, bruising

and swelling over Left Cheek bone and tenderness was found behind

the ears. Although the Doctor has not given the duration of these

injuries and has merely mentioned that as per the information given

by the victim, the incident happened 3-4 days back, but one thing is

clear that there is a difference in the medical opinion of two Doctors.

The medical report given on 2-2-2021, corroborates with the

allegations of the prosecutrix that She was beaten by belts. As

already pointed out, the bruises were found on both thighs, cheek and

behind ears. Thus, it is clear that She was beaten by belts and most

probably was also slapped. Thus, it is also a matter of investigation,

that why two different medical reports were given by Doctors

because in one report, abrasions were found and another report

bruises were found. The investigating officer is also directed to

investigate into the role of the Doctor who had given the medical

report dated 1-2-2021. Whether Medical Report dated 1-2-2021 was given by the Doctor W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . immediately or not? 92. From the police case diary proceedings, it is clear that the

medical report dated 1-2-2021 was received in the police station on

18-2-2021. The case diary proceedings dated 10-2-2021 reveals that

a letter was written to C.S.P., Morar, to the effect that he had got the

prosecutrix medically examined but the medical report has not been

sent. It appears that the C.S.P., Morar, sent the medical report to the

police station on 18-2-2021. It is true that C.S.P., Morar, was

conducting an enquiry into the allegations of beating by the police,

but the file of Add. S.P. (East) shows that enquiry report dated 12-2-

2021, was submitted by C.S.P. to the Add. S.P. (East) which was

received by Add. S.P. (East) on 13-2-2021. There is nothing in the

case diary or in the file of Add. S.P.(East) as to on what date, the

C.S.P., Morar had received the medical report dated 1-2-2021. But

one thing is clear. After preparing enquiry report dated 12-2-2021,

there was no occasion for the C.S.P., Morar to keep the medical

report of the prosecutrix dated 1-2-2021 with him. But still, he

retained the said medical report with him and was sent to the Police

Station on 18-2-2021, whereas a letter of request dated 10-2-2021

was already made by the Investigating Officer. 93. As already pointed out, there is no diary proceedings dated 2-2-

2021, but the case diary contains the Medical Report of the

prosecutrix which was prepared on 2-2-2021 at 9:30 P.M. From the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . case diary proceedings, it is clear that this medical report was sent to

investigating officer on 3-2-2021, which was included in the case

diary on 4-2-2021 i.e., much prior to receipt of medical report dated

1-2-2201. 94. Since, the medical report dated 2-2-2021 is in conformity with

the allegations made by the prosecutrix, therefore, it is held that

multiple bruises/tenderness were found on the thighs of both legs, left

cheek bone and behind the ears. Whether free and fair investigation has been done in the matter

or not? 95. As already pointed out, the police started harassing the

prosecutrix immediately after She reached Police Station, as the

S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, C.S.P. Morar, and

M.2 were aware of the fact that the prosecutrix has alleged

commission of rape and She is residing in the house of Ganga Singh

Bhadoria. 96. As already pointed out, although the prosecutrix had reached

Police Station at 21:04:09, but the F.I.R. was lodged at 23:50 i.e.,

after near about 3 hours. 97. As already pointed out the Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

deliberately omitted the allegations made against Ganga Singh

Bhadoria in the statements of the prosecutrix recorded on 31-1-2021. 98. As already pointed out, that immediately after lodging of F.I.R., W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Ganga Singh Bhadoria came to the Police Station and without

recording his statement, he was directed to provide the video clipping

of CCTV footage installed in his house. 99. As already pointed out, the prosecutrix was illegally kept (In

fact detained ) in the police station for the whole night. 100. As already pointed out, the prosecutrix was illegally kept ( In

fact detained) in the police station for the entire next day. 101. As already pointed out, the prosecutrix was mercilessly beaten

by the police personals on 1-2-2021 and thereafter She was

compelled to change her version. 102. As already pointed out, no questions were asked to the

prosecutrix as to why She had disclosed her incorrect age, therefore,

the explanation given in the case diary for recording of

supplementary statements is false. 103. As already pointed out, the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded, in which She made specifically

allegations of beating by the police. 104. As already pointed out, the matter was reported by J.M.F.C.,

Gwl to C.J.M. Gwalior who also verified from the prosecutrix

regarding the allegations of beating which was endorsed by the

prosecutrix. 105. As already pointed out, the C.S.P., Morar, without any

authority of law, sent the prosecutrix to One Stop Center, Gwalior on W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 1-2-2021. 106. As already pointed out, the investigating officer in case diary

proceedings has leveled allegations against the J.M.F.C., Gwalior as

well as against Shri O.P. Sharma, Govt. Pleader. Again, during the

course of arguments, the C.S.P., Morar, made a false submission that

the prosecutrix was admitted in One Stop Center on the verbal orders

of the C.J.M., Gwalior. 107. This Court has already come to a conclusion that Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya was manipulating the official records, and the

statements of the witnesses and prosecutrix were not recorded as

disclosed by them in the video graphy. It is also not known, as to

whether the F.I.R. itself was written properly or not and whether any

allegation against Ganga Singh Bhadoria was in omitted in F.I.R. or

not? 108. This Court has already come to a conclusion that without any

authority of law, the investigating officer, tried to obtain the CCTV

footage of the Court premises from D.P.O., Gwalior, without giving

any information to the District Judge, Gwalior and Superintendent of

Police. 109. From the case diary proceedings it is clear that Ganga Singh

Bhadoria had come to the Police Station in the night of 31-1-2021

and he was asked to provide the CCTV footage of cameras installed

in his house. Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 110. However, this Court failed to understand, that why the

investigating officer, did not go to the house of Ganga Singh

Bhadoria to seize the DVR of CCTV and why he gave opportunity to

Ganga Singh Bhadoria to provide CD of CCTV recording, as per his

conveniance specifically when the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay

Singh Pawar as well as Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya knew fully

well that the prosecutrix has leveled certain allegations against Ganga

Singh Bhadoria also. 111. It is not out of place to mention here that the prosecutrix was a

maid servant of Ganga Singh Bhadoria and the incident is alleged to

have taken place in his house. Even then, the investigating

officer/S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, did not try to

prepare the spot map on 1-2-2021 but on the other hand they were

busy in beating the prosecutrix and were busy in pressurizing her to

change her statement. 112. Thus, it is clear that for the reasons best known to the S.H.O.,

Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, and Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya could not collect courage to go to the house of Ganga

Singh Bhadoria where the incident took place. Spot map is an

important part of investigation and it was deliberately ignored by the

S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar and Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya. 113. It is not out of place to mention here that the prosecutrix was W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . sent to One Stop Center in the night of 1-2-2021 and on 2-2-2021 at

about 11 A.M., a habeas Corpus Petition was filed in the High Court,

and on 3-2-2021, the prosecutrix was produced before the Division

Bench of this Court through Video Conferencing and on the said

date, the prosecutrix expressed her desire to go to her parental home. 114. It also appears from the Police case diary, that the investigating

officer was changed, and the S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt.

Gwalior, took over the investigation on 3-2-2021. 115. The S.H.O., Sirol, Distt. Gwalior/changed I.O., found that even

the spot map was not prepared. It is also observed in the case diary

proceedings dated 3-2-2021, that the video clippings of the

statements of the witnesses have not been kept in the police case

diary and the attention of this lapse was drawn to the Senior Officers.

Unfortunately, no one paid heed, and even when the case diary was

produced before this Court, the case diary was not containing the

video clippings of the statements of the witnesses. Thus, it is clear

that the S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, and Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya as well as Lady Constable Manisha Jadon

had kept the video clippings with them. The video clippings which

have been made available to the Court contains different captions.

(I) The video clipping of statement of prosecutrix recorded on 31-

1-2021 contains a caption Whatsapp Video 2021-02-02 at 2:37:57

P.M., whereas statement of prosecutrix in which she had leveled W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . allegations against Dharmendra contains a caption Whatsapp Video

2021-02-02, at 2:39:15 P.M., Second supplementary statement

recorded on 1-2-2021 contains a caption Whatsapp video 2021-02-

02 at 5:41:00 P.M., the statement of Dharmendra Dhakad contains a

caption Whatsapp Video 2021-02-02 at 5:21:56 P.M., and the

statement of the father of the prosecutrix contains a caption

Whatsapp Video 2021-02-02 at 2:34:30 P.M. Only the S.H.O.,

Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya and Lady Constable Ms. Manisha Jadon would be in a

position to explain the meaning of above mentioned captions.

Therefore, the investigating officer is directed to investigate on this

issue also. However, one thing is clear that no inference can be

drawn from the above mentioned Whatsapp Video that at what time

and on what date, the videography was done. However, one thing is

clear. The video clippings were not kept in the case diary in

accordance with law or even in the Police Station, otherwise, there

was no occasion for caption like Whatsapp Video. Thus, it is clear

that the S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and Lady Constable Manisha Jadon had

transmitted the video clippings through Whatsapp platform. The

Counsel for the State could not explain that under what provisions of

law, the police officers can transmit the video clippings through

Whatsapp platform. Thus, it clearly shows that the S.H.O., Police W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and

Lady Constable Manisha Jadon has violated the privacy of the

prosecutrix and have acted contrary to law as well as contrary to

police circulars. Further more, the case diary proceedings dated 3-2-

2021 also clearly show that the video clipping were not kept in the

Police Case Diary, whereas as per the provisions of Section 163(3) of

Cr.P.C., the statements of the witnesses can also be recorded by video

graphy. Therefore, the videoclippings of the statements of the

witnesses can be regarded as statements under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. 116. Be that as it may. 117. On 4-2-2021, the statement of the prosecutrix was once again

recorded by the S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior/changed

I.O., and in that statement, the prosecutrix once again re-iterated the

same allegations which She had leveled in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. It is also mentioned in the case diary

proceedings dated 4-2-2021 that the Add. S.P. (East) directed the

S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior/changed I.O., not to

investigate into the allegations of beating by the police and the

S.H.O., Police Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior/changed I.O. was directed

to investigate into the allegations of rape only. 118. On 5-2-2021, the spot map was prepared and torn cloths of the

prosecutrix were also seized. 119. In her videographed statement of the prosecutrix recorded by W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya on 31-1-2021, the prosecutrix had

specifically alleged that her cloths were torned, but the S.H.O., Police

Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

could not collect courage to go to the spot and to seize the torn cloths

of the prosecutrix. They did not go to the spot for collecting

incriminating/supporting evidence. Even the room of the prosecutrix

was not sealed. Only the changed I.O., prepared the spot map and

seized the torn cloths from the prosecutrix. 120. The case diary contains an Absconding Panchnama of Aditya

Bhadoria to the effect that on 4-2-2021, he was not found at his

address, but there is no mention of above mentioned fact in the case

diary proceedings of 4-2-2021. 121. The case diary contains an Absconding Panchnama of Aditya

Bhadoria to the effect that on 5-2-2021, he was not found at his

address, but in the case diary, there is no mention that Aditya

Bhadoria was searched, but it is mentioned that friend of Aditya

Bhadoria was not found. 122. On 9-4-2021, Brijmohan Singh Chouhan, who is the maternal

uncle of suspect Aditya Bhadoria provided one C.D. to investigating

officer, which was allegedly containing the videoclipping of 1-2-

2021(Most probably of Court premises). He also provided two

photographs i.e., photographs of one boy claimed to be Sonu Sharma

and prosecutrix and also provided two photographs of a person, who W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . is claimed to be Sonu Sharma by Brijmohan Chouhan and also

provided one photograph of a person claimed to be Shaymu Pandit.

Although the photographs are in the case diary but the C.D. provided

by Brijmohan Singh Chouhan is not in the case diary. However, the

case diary doesnot contain any diary proceedings of 9-2-2021,

whereas the case diary contains the seizure memo dated 9-2-2021.

It is really surprising that although the Investigating Officer Priti

Bhargava, Town Inspector is alleged to have seized the above

mentioned documents, but the police case diary doesnot contain

proceedings regarding any such seizure. Thus, it is clear that even

the changed investigating officer had started dancing to the tunes

of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, and was collecting and receiving

documents from them, without making any reference of the same

in the police case diary. 123. As per the case diary, Aditya Singh was searched in his house,

but his family members expressed ignorance about his whereabouts.

But the case diary doesnot contain any abscondence panchnama

dated 10-2-2021 of Aditya Bhadoria. Again in diary proceedings

dated 12-2-2021, it is mentioned that Aditya Bhadoria was searched

in his house, but his family members were not in a position to tell

about his whereabouts. But the police case diary doesnot contain

Abscondence Panchnama dated 12-2-2021. Thus, it is clear that even

the changed Investigating Officer had started manipulating the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . investigation, and was making false entries in the Police case diary

proceedings. It is not out of place to mention here that the case

diary contains one application made by Ganga Singh Bhadoria to

the Changed investigating officer on 3-2-2021. Thus, it is clear that

immediately after taking over the investigation, the changed

investigating officer was also in constant touch with Ganga Singh

Bhadoria. It is further shocking that although Ganga Singh

Bhadoria had met with changed Investigating Officer (it is

endorsed by the changed I.O., that application was given by Ganga

Singh Bhadoria personally by mentioning " Lo;a ", and had given

an application in his defence, but there is no reference of the same

in the case diary proceedings dated 3-2-2021. 124. It also appears that Ganga Singh Bhadoria, made a similar

application to Superintendent of Police, Gwalior on 4-2-2021 and the

same was marked to S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar,

and S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar received the

same on 8-2-2021. Since, the investigating officer was already

changed, therefore, it was marked to T.I., Police Station Sirol, Distt.

Gwalior, and as per the endorsement made by changed I.O., She

received this application on 24-2-2021 by hand. The word " Lo;a " 125. Case diary proceedings dated 16-2-2021, 18-2-2021, 24-2-

2021, mentions that Aditya Bhadoria and his friends were searched

but there whereabouts were not found, but there is no abscondence

panchnama in the case diary. Thus, it appears that false entries were

being made by Changed Investigating Officer also. 126. In case diary proceedings dated 25-2-2021, there is a reference

of applications made by Ganga Singh Bhadoria to Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior and Inspector General of Police, Gwalior and

accordingly, letter was written to D.P.O., to obtain video footage of

CCTV cameras installed in Court premises. In case diary

proceedings dated 9-3-2021, there is reference of application given

by Ganga Singh Bhadoria as well as application given by father of the

prosecutrix to the Superintendent of Police, and thereafter, the

investigating officer immediately changed her investigation and

started looking for Sanjay Nai and Shaymu Pandit as alleged by

Ganga Singh Bhadoria. On the same day, the father of Shaymu

Pandit came to the police station and denied the involvement of his

son Shaymu Pandit. 127. It also appears that on 26-3-2021, a notice was issued and its

reply was given by Govind Sharma, which is in the police case diary.

It is specifically mentioned in the reply, that Govind Sharma tried to

hand over the reply personally to the investigating officer, but She

refused to accept it and accordingly, the same was sent through W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . registered post. In the reply, it is specifically mentioned that in

connection with the present case, he was summoned in the police

station for number of times and was made to sit in the police station

for no reasons and accordingly on 4-2-2021, he had also made a

complaint to the Superintendent of Police. The said application is

also in the case diary Thus, it is clear that right from the very

beginning, the police was not trying to collect the correct facts but

was trying to implicate other persons without any basis but only on

the request of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. Similarly, the case diary

contains a reply sent by Sanjay Savita by registered post, in which

there is an endorsement that the investigating officer has refused to

accept the same, therefore, it is being sent by registered post. 128. The case diary also contains an application made by Ganga

Singh Bhadoria dated 2-2-2021, in which he has mentioned that the

prosecutrix has refused to undergo the medical examination of her

private parts. This application was also received by changed

investigating officer personally on 5-2-2021. It is really surprising

that according to the prosecution, the prosecutrix had refused to

undergo the medical examination of her private part on 1-2-2021 at

10:35 P.M., and Ganga Singh Bhadoria was aware of this fact. Thus,

it is clear that Ganga Singh Bhadoria was keeping a close watch on

the investigation which is not possible without the help of the

investigating officer or any other police personal posted in the police W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . station. From the police case diary, it is clear that Ganga Singh

Bhadoria was making applications constantly to the Superintendent

of Police, Gwalior which were being marked to changed Investigating

Officer. 129. In application dated 7-3-2021, the father of the prosecutrix had

also made a complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior that

under the orders of the High Court, the custody of the prosecutrix has

been handed over to him, but still the police is harassing and is

pressurizing them to withdraw the complaint. Although this

application was also marked to changed investigating officer, but

nothing was done on this application. 130. Thus, it is clear that the police was simply acting on the

dictations of Ganga Singh Bhadoria and was neither investigating on

the complaint made by the prosecutrix, nor took cognizance of

complaint made by father of the prosecutrix. 131. On 27-5-2021, Ganga Singh Bhadoria, made one more

application and the contents of the application clearly shows that he

was aware of each and every investigation which was being done in

the matter. In this letter it is mentioned that false case has been

registered at the behest of Shyamu Pandit. It is also mentioned that

during investigation, the police has collected the CDR (Call details),

according to which Shyamu Pandit had talked to the prosecutrix from

1st Jan 2021 till 19 Jan 2021, and thereafter the SIM of Shyamu W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Pandit was deactivated. Thereafter, he talked to the prosecutrix from

another SIM from 20 Jan 2021 till 31 Jan 2021, whereas this SIM is

registered in the name of Ravi son of Rajendra Prasad village Barona

Distt. Bhind. It was also mentioned that Sandeep Sharma by putting

the prosecutrix under pressure has succeeded in getting her statement

recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. against Aditya Bhadoria and

himself. It is also mentioned that inspite of the direction given by

the police, the house has not been vacated. Thus, it is clear that the

investigating officer had gone to the extent of pressuring the

prosecutrix to vacate the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria and

therefore, father of the prosecutrix had made a complaint of

harassment by the police, but no action was taken, but on the

contrary, the police was involved in making an attempt to get the

house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria vacated. Thus, it is clear that the

police was out and out to destroy all evidences which were against

Aditya Bhadoria and Ganga Singh Bhadoriya. 132. It appears that Mamta Sharma, wife of Sandeep Sharma had

also made an application to the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior

regarding false implication of her husband Sandeep Sharma, but no

heed was paid. In the complaint made by Mamta Sharma, it is

specifically mentioned that her husband Sandeep Sharma was present

in the Court premises in connection with his Court case. Thus, it is

clear that Sandeep Sharma, did not try to hide his presence in the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Court premises on 1-2-2021. 133. Court is a public place and every person, who is facing trial or

whose case is fixed or persons for other works like preparation of

affidavits etc come to the Court. Therefore, even if some person is

seen behind another person who has been brought to the Court by a

police personal, then it cannot be said that the witness is being taught.

But still, the police on the application made by Ganga Singh

Bhadoria immediately directed the D.P.O., to collect the CCTV

footage of cameras installed in Court premises. It is also not out of

place to mention here that the lady Constable who was accompanying

the prosecutrix in the Court premises, also did not record the incident

in the Court premises from her mobile as alleged by her, as per the

case diary. Thus, it is clear that the allegation that the prosecutrix

was tutored by Govt. Pleader O.P. Sharma, and the J.M.F.C., Gwalior,

recorded the statement of the prosecutrix under the pressure of Govt.

Pleader O.P. Sharma are not only false but are contemptuous.

Whether the Investigating Officer was following the direction

given by the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. 134. The Superintendent of Police, Gwalior by its letter dated 24-2-

2021, 16-4-2021 had directed the Investigating officer to arrest the

accused persons or to initiate the proceedings under Section 82 and 83 of Cr.P.C. In reply, the Investigating Officer, by her letter dated

15-5-2021 informed the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, that some W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . more time would be required to arrest Aditya Bhadoria and his friend.

The case diary also contains various letters written by Superintendent

of Police, Gwalior for early conclusion of investigation, but still the

Investigating Officer was proceeding on her own snails' speed. 135. By supervision report no. 11/2021 dated 5-2-2021, the

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior had directed to record the

statement of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, but no action was taken on said

letter. 136. Thus, it is clear that even the changed Investigating Officer was

not listening to the directions of Superintendent of Police, Gwalior.

Whether diversion of investigation to Shyamu Pandit and others

was due to evidence collected during investigation or it was on the

dictations of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. 137. The case diary reveals that on 31-1-2021, Ganga Singh

Bhadoria was present in the police station and he was directed to

provide the recording of CCTV cameras installed in his house to

verify that movements of assailants. 138. The case diary contain a seizure memo dated 13-3-2021 by

which the DVR, one CD and one Photo were seized from Brijmohan

Singh Chouhan, maternal uncle of Aditya Bhadoria. According to

this C.D., it was alleged that on 31-1-2021 at about 7:22:22 PM one

person with mask was seen entering inside the house of Ganga Singh

Bhadoria, who according to Ganga Singh Bhadoria was Shyamu W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Pandit. 139. Although Ganga Singh Bhadoria had started claiming from 3-

2-2021 itself, that Shaymu Pandit had come to his house in the night

of 31-1-2021 at about 7:22 and went back at about 18:15(timings

appear to be wrongly mentioned). However, the CD of recording of

CCTV camera was made available by Ganga Singh Bhadoria on 13-

3-2021. The case diary also contains a notice dated 1-2-2021 issued

to Ganga Singh Bhadoria to supply recording of CCTV footage. This

Court has already held that the police could have seized the DVR of

the CCTV camera installed in the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria on

1-2-2021 itself, but instead of doing that, full opportunity was given

to Ganga Singh Bhadoria to manipulate the recording. The Police

Case diary contains a photograph of a person wearing cap and mask

with one polythene in his hand and according to the recording time,

the timings of this photo is 07:22:22 P.M. 140. From the timings visible from the photo, it cannot be said that

the photograph provided by Ganga Singh Bhadoria through

Brijmohan Singh Chouhan is not morphed one. The date and Time in

the DVR is always set manually. If the photograph provided by

Ganga Singh Bhadoria was the original one, then why it was not

provided by Ganga Singh Bhadoria on 1-2-2021 itself, and why he

took approximately 1 and a half month to provide the recording of

CCTV footage specifically when he was in constant touch with W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Superintendent of Police, Inspector General of Police and

Investigating Officers. 141. If the date and time in the DVR is changed, then it would

reflect the changed date and time. Thus, it is clear that during this 1

and a half month, Ganga Singh Bhadoria had ample opportunity to re-

record the things after changing the date and time of recording. 142. Thus, it is clear that the police was giving full opportunity to

Ganga Singh Bhadoria to destroy all evidences.

Why Ganga Singh Bhadoria had let out his house to the

prosecutrix. 143. It is an admitted position that the prosecutrix was working in

the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria and was allowed to stay in the

house. It is the claim of the prosecutrix in her statement dated 31-1-

2021 which was videographed, that since, She was doing dusting and

mopping, therefore, Ganga Singh Bhadoria had allowed her to stay in

the house. However, Ganga Singh Bhadoria has claimed in his

applications that the prosecutrix was inducted as a tenant. In the case

diary proceedings dated 1-2-2021, it is mentioned that Ganga Singh

Bhadoria had informed that the prosecutrix was inducted as tenant on

monthly rent of Rs. 3500, and Bua of the prosecutrix had

recommended for the same. Thus, it is clear that Ganga Singh

Bhadoria was in touch with Bua of the prosecutrix, even then the

police did not try to find out the whereabouts of Bua of the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . prosecutrix. It is really surprising that a young girl aged about 19

having no sources of income as well as having no information of

background was inducted as a tenant by Ganga Singh Bhadoria and

also did not give any information and details of the newly inducted

tenant to the nearby police station. Thus, the stand of the prosecutrix

that She was employed as a maid servant for dusting and mopping

purposes and was allowed to stay on the ground floor appears to be

more convincing. Why the torn cloths of the prosecutrix were not seized on the date

of incident itself 144. According to the prosecution story, the torn cloths of the

prosecutrix were seized in the One Stop Center on 5-2-2021. It is

really surprising that the prosecutrix was with the police for the

whole night of 31-1-2021 and whole day of 1-1-2021, but still her

cloths were not seized, specifically when in her statement which was

videographed, the prosecutrix had specifically stated that She was

disrobed forcibly and her cloths were torned. However, the Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya in the statement of the prosecutrix written

under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., conveniently omitted the fact that her

cloths were torned and were removed by miscreants. Thus, in view of

material difference between the statement of the prosecutrix which

was videographed and the statement which was written by Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, it is clear that the police personals were W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . trying to divert the investigation right from day one. Therefore,

S.H.O., Police Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, and Sub-Inspector

Kirti Upadhyaya did not seize the torned cloths of the prosecutrix

which She was also wearing when She came to police station. 145. It is true that generally, the cloths of the prosecutrix are sealed

by the Doctor and thereafter they are handed over to the Police

Personals. But in the present case, it appears that the prosecutrix was

not permitted to change her cloths by the police personals and She

was compelled to wear the same cloths from 31-1-2021 till 2-2-2021

(The cloths were seized from the prosecutrix from One Stop Center,

Gwalior on 5-2-2021). Further, from the Medical Report dated 2-2-

2021 which was prepared at 9:30 P.M., it is clear that the Doctor has

written that the prosecutrix has not changed her cloths. Further more,

when the Investigating Officer can seal the cloths on 5-2-2021, then

why the prosecutrix was compelled to wear the same torn Kurta,

Salwar and Chunni which according to her were torn during the

commission of offence? However, this aspect is to be looked into by

the investigating officer. Whether Rojnamcha Sanhas of Police Station Morar contains the

timings of investigation. 146. A copy of the Rojnamchsanha which is also called General

Diary is maintained as per the provisions of Section 44 of Police Act.

A copy of the Rojnamchasanhas are sent to the office of W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Superintendent of Police, on daily basis. Earlier a separate book was

maintained and the original sanhas were sent to the office of

Superintendent of Police, and the carbon copy of the same were

retained in police station, but with passage of time, the

Rojnamchasanha book has been replaced by Computer entries.

Therefore, the print of Rojnamchasanhas which are maintained in the

office of Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, was supplied. As the

Rojnamchasanhas were sent after the case was reserved for orders,

therefore, the police officer who brought the Rojnamchasanhas

informed that since, the print out which was taken out from the ID of

Superintendent of Police Gwalior was not reflecting time of

recording of Rojnamchasanhas, therefore, the print out of

Rojnamchasanhas of the Police Station Morar were separately taken

out. 147. Whether non print of timings in the Rojnamchasanhas which

are available in the office of Superintendent of Police, Gwalior is due

to any technical flaw or otherwise, is not known, but one thing is

clear from the Rojnamchasanhas maintained at Police Station Morar,

the timings of each and every event has not been mentioned. It is

clear that the Rojnamchasanhas were written at the end of the day,

and after comparing with the case diary proceedings and the

Rojnamhasanhas, it is clear that almost all the Rojnamhachasanhas

are cut and paste. But only Rojnamchasanhas written at serial no. 58, W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 74, 80, 81 dated 1-2-2021 (intervening night of 31-1-2021) and

Rojnamchasanha no. 8 dated 1-2-2021 written on the morning of 1-2-

2021 are not the cut paste. Be that as it may. 148. This Court did not get any assistance from the

Rojnamchasanhas of Police Station Morar, except that a A.S.I.

Vishram Singh was sent at 7:48 A.M. on 1-2-2021 to give

information to the father of the prosecutrix. 149. Thus, it is found that most of the Rojnamchasanhas did not

contain the timings of any particular investigation done by the

investigating officer. 150. Thus, in nutshell, the following circumstances would emerge : 151. The prosecutrix was employed as maid servant in the house of

Ganga Singh Bhadoria on 18-12-2020 and the prosecutrix was

residing in the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria where the incident is

alleged to have taken place. (a) The prosecutrix informed Dial 100 on 31-1-2021 at 20:29:09

about commission of rape. (b) The headquarter of Dial 100 informed Unit Gwl 43 about the

event at 20:30:35 on 31-1-2021. (c) The headquarter of Dial 100 informed S.H.O., P.S.Morar about

the incident on 31-1-2021 at 20:32:33. (d) The headquarter of Dial 100 informed DPCR at 20:33:52. (e) The headquarter of Dial 100 informed CSP Morar at 20:35:30 W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (f) The headquarter of Dial 100 sent sms to Mobile No.

8085188394 at 20:36:18 (g) The headquarter of Dial 100 sent sms to Mobile No.

7587612701 (Must be of some police officer) at 20:36:19 (h) The headquarter of Dial 100 sent sms to Mobile No.

7587600013 (Must be of some Police Officer) at 20:36:20 (i) The headquarter of Dial 100 sent sms to Mobile No. 9425964313

(Must be of some Police Officer) at 20:36:51 (j) The headquarter of Dial 100 sent sms to Mobile No.

9479993002 (Must be of some Police Officer) at 20:36:52 (k) CCSP Morar was informed about incident at 20:36:53 (xii) At 20:46:28 the headquarter of Dial 100 sent informed ASP on

Mobile No. 9479993002 who informed that P.S. Morar doesnot fall

within his jurisdiction. (l) M.2 (Most Probably Add. S.P.) was informed about incident at

20:48:21 (m) FRV reached on the spot at 20:51:48 (n) FRV reached police station along with prosecutrix at 21:04:09

Thus, it is clear that after the incident was reported by the

prosecutrix on Dial 100, then S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay

Singh Pawar, C.S.P., Morar, M.2( Most Probably Add. S.P.) were

informed even before the FRV could reach on the spot. Further, it

is clear that the prosecutrix was dropped by the F.R.V. at police W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . station Morar at 21:04:09. (o) F.I.R. was lodged at 23:50. That means the prosecutrix was made to wait in the police station

for approximately 3 hours, but the fact that the prosecutrix had

reached police station at 21:04:09 is not mentioned in the Police

case diary. Even the Police case diary doesnot indicate, that the M.2, C.S.P.,

Morar and S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar were

already informed about the incident at 20:32:33 onwards. (p) The Statement of the prosecutrix under Section 161 of Cr.P.C.

was reduced in writing and it was also videographed.

However, there is material omission in the written statement of the

prosecutrix and the statement which was videographed. In video

clipping the prosecutrix has alleged that when She raised an alarm

for her protection, then Ganga Singh Bhadoria also came there

and after calling her by caste name, extended a threat that the

prosecutrix should not narrate the incident to any body, otherwise,

She would be killed. However, Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya,

conveniently omitted the allegations against Ganga Singh

Bhadoria in the written statement of the prosecutrix. (q) Ganga Singh Bhadoria also reached Police Station and he was

advised to preserve and provide the CCTV footage of cameras which

are installed in his house and a notice in this regard was also given. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (r) However, Brijmohan Singh Chauhan, maternal uncle of Aditya

Bhadoria provided the DVR of CCTV on 13-3-2021 i.e., after

approximately 1 and a half month. Thus, full opportunity was given to Ganga Singh Bhadoira to

manipulate the recording of CCTV footage of cameras installed in

his house, and recording of CCTV camera installed in the house of

Ganga Singh Bhadoria was not seized by the police in the

intervening night of 31-1-201 and 1-2-2021. On the contrary, in

the case diary proceedings dated 1-2-2021, it is mentioned that

when Ganga Singh Bhadoria was called in Police Station, then he

was directed to see the recording of CCTV footage and he informed

that one boy had come to his house at 7:22 P.M. Thus, it is clear

that Ganga Singh Bhadoria must have visited police station for

number of times in the night of 31-1-2021. (s) The mobile and duplicate Adhar Card of prosecutrix was seized

and the prosecutrix was taken for medical examination and in the

prescription form for medical examination, no injuries were

mentioned by the police on the body of the prosecutrix. (t) The Out Patient Record of Distt. Hospital, Morar indicates,

that the OPD Slip was prepared at 12:26:43 A.M., on which Dr.

Reena Saxena has mentioned that since, the prosecutrix has disclosed

her age as 15 years, therefore, She cannot conduct her internal

examination in absence of her guardians. The Medico-Legal Form W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . indicates, that Dr. Reena Sexena had refused to carry out her internal

examination at 2:20 A.M.

(u) Although Shri Raghuvanshi, during the course of arguments

had stated that the prosecutrix was brought back to the police station

at 4 A.M., but the Rojnamchasanha indicates, that the prosecutrix was

brought back to the police station at 2:54 A.M. (v) Rojnamchasanha No. 81 indicates that the prosecutrix was kept

in Urja Mahila Desk in the police station itself.

(w) On 1-2-2021, as per Rojnamhasanha no. 8 recorded at 7:48,

A.S.I. Vishram Singh was sent to inform the father of the prosecutrix.

From thereafter, neither the Rojnamchasanha nor the case diary

proceedings contain the timings of the events. (x) The statement of the father of the prosecutrix was recorded and

was also got videographed. On comparison, it is found that the written statement of father of

the prosecutrix and the video clipping of statement of father of

prosecutrix is different on certain issues.

Further, none of the videography of statements of the

witnesses/prosecutrix are in accordance with the police circulars.

(y) The first supplementary statement of the prosecutrix was

recorded in which she is looking terrified. It is clear from the video clippings the Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya was taking notes of the statement but was not writing W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the same verbatim. The video clipping was prepared from the right side of the

prosecutrix. Her head is covered with chunni and thus, her left

side of face is not visible in video clipping (The Doctor had found

swelling on left cheek of the prosecutrix)

(z) The prosecutrix was taken to the house of Dharmendra Dhakad.

(aa) The statement of Dharmendra Dhakad was recorded and

videographed. In the video clipping, the investigating officer is not visible, and

there are differences in the written statement and the video clipping

and the fact of enjoying Paneer party in the room of Prosecutrix is

not in the video clipping. (bb) The Second supplementary statement of prosecutrix was

recorded and was also videographed. In the video clipping the prosecutrix is looking terrified and is not

answering fluently and is taking long pauses.

As the face of the prosecutrix was covered with Chunni and due to

light in the background, it is not possible to find out as to whether

there are any injuries on her left cheek and behind ears or not?

(cc) The prosecutrix was sent for recording of her statement under

Section 164 of Cr.P.C. (dd) The prosecutrix, apart from re-iterating the allegations which she

had leveled in her videographed statement before the investigating W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . officer, made serious allegations against the police personals

regarding her beating. In her statement under Section 164, the

prosecutrix had also alleged that before leaving the police station for

the Court, the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar had

threatened her that She should depose in accordance with their

directions, otherwise, She has to come back to the Police Station.

(ee) The J.M.F.C., Gwalior, immediately brought this fact to the

knowledge of C.J.M., Gwalior, who immediately summoned the

C.S.P., Morar and also verified from the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix

once again made allegations of beating by the police.

(ff) In order to overcome the allegations of beating, it was mentioned

in the police case diary, that initially the J.M.F.C., Gwalior, refused to

record the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.

When the lady constable came out of the chamber of the J.M.F.C.,

Gwl, they were surrounded by 5-6 persons who started pressuring

that the statement would be recorded and the prosecutrix has to make

a statement as per their wish and one Advocate forcibly took the

prosecutrix inside the chamber of the J.M.F.C. and the statement

under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded. In the case proceedings it

is also mentioned that Shri O.P. Sharma, Govt. Pleader is assisting

one Sonu Sharma

Thus, in order to overcome the allegations of beating, the police

went to the extent of leveling allegations against the J.M.F.C., W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Gwalior and Govt. Pleader. (gg) A separate order was passed by C.J.M., Gwl, directing for

change of investigating officer and also to keep the prosecutrix at a

secured place. (hh) The prosecutrix was sent for medical examination. (ii) Since, the internal examination of the prosecutrix was not done,

therefore, She was once again sent for medical examination. As per

medico-legal Examination report, the prosecutrix was brought to the

Hospital at 10:30 P.M. and as per the endorsement written at 10:35

P.M., the prosecutrix refused to undergo medical examination.

(jj) Thereafter, without any order from the Court, the C.S.P., Morar

sent the prosecutrix to One Stop Center instead of sending her to her

parental home. During the course of arguments, it was wrongly stated by C.S.P.,

Morar, that the prosecutrix was sent to One Stop Center, on the

verbal orders of the C.J.M., Gwl

(kk) This Court after considering the various facts and circumstances,

has come to a conclusion that the prosecutrix was beaten mercilessly

before her 1st and 2nd supplementary statements.

(ll) The case diary proceedings doesnot contain the steps which were

taken by the investigating officer on 2-2-2021, but the case diary

contains a Medico-Legal Examination Form prepared on 2-2-2021 at

9:30 P.M. and Doctor found Multiple Bruises on B/L thigh and W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . tenderness as well as bruising and tenderness on left cheek bone,

and mild tenderness behind the ears. (mm) The Doctor has not given the duration of the injuries but has

cleverly mentioned that as per victim, incident happened 3-4 days

back, whereas in the medical report dated 1-2-2021, it is mentioned

that duration of injuries is 24-48 hours. (nn) There is material contradictions in the medical report dated 1-

2-2021 and 2-2-2021. In report dated 1-2-2021, the Doctor had

opined 8 abrasions were found, whereas in report dated 2-2-2021,

multiple bruises were found. The prosecutrix had alleged that she was beaten by police

personals by belt, and her allegations finds corroboration from

Medico-Legal Examination Report dated 2-2-2021.

(oo) Neither the spot map was prepared, nor the room of the

prosecutrix was sealed. The CCTV footage of the house of Ganga

Singh Bhadoria were also not seized, but ample time was granted to

Ganga Singh Bhadoria to provide CCTV footage as per his

convenience. Thus, it is clear that Gana Singh Bhadoria had full

opportunity to manipulate the recording of CCTV footage of his

cameras. (pp) The Superintendent of Police, Gwalior directed the Add. S.P.

(East) to conduct an enquiry into the allegations of beating by police

personals and to submit the report within 5 days. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (qq) The Add. S.P. (East) in her turn, assigned the enquiry to C.S.P.,

Morar, which clearly shows a hostile and inhuman attitude of the

police authorities towards to atrocities complained by the rape victim.

(rr) The Add. S.P. (East), even did not care to talk to the Prosecutrix.

(ss) On 3-2-2021, Smt Priti Bhargava, S.H.O. Police Sirol was

assigned investigation, who found that neither the spot map was

prepared nor the video clippings of the statements of the witnesses

are in the case diary. (tt) On 3-2-2021, the prosecutrix was produced before the High

Court through Video conferencing in a habeas corpus petition and

W.P. No. 2571 of 2021 was heard and reserved on 3-2-2021 and order

was pronounced on 9-2-2021. During the Video Conferencing, the

prosecutrix had expressed her willingness to go to her parental home.

(uu) Ganga Singh Bhadoria was constantly making applications to

Inspector General of Police, Superintendent of Police, and

Investigating Officers. He was in constant touch with Investigating

Officers, and contents of some of his applications indicate that he

was aware of each and every development in the investigation.

(vv) The father of the prosecutrix also made a written complaint to

the Superintendent of Police, which was forwarded to the

Investigating Officer, but one thing is clear that no cognizance of the

complaint of father of the prosecutrix was taken.

(ww) Although Ganga Singh Bhadoria against whom allegations of W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . threatening were made by the prosecutrix was not made an accused,

but at the same time, he was personally making applications to the

Investigating Officer and every time it was being written by the

Investigating Officer that Aditya Bhadoria is not found at his

residence. Except that, there is nothing on record to show that any

effort was made by the investigating Aditya Bhadoria.

(xx) Although Ganga Singh Bhadoria was present in the police

station on 31-1-2021 and was in constant touch with the Inspector

General of Police, Superintendent of Police and Investigating Officer,

but his statements were not recorded. (yy) Right from day one, not only the police was harassing the

Prosecutrix, but had diverted the investigation and from 1-2-2021

was trying hard that the prosecutrix should change her version.

(zz) An attempt was made by the I.O. Smt. Priti Bhargava to obtain

CCTV footage of District Court premises through D.P.O. without

taking the Superintendent of Police in confidence.

(aaa) In Rojnamchasanha even the Court reader was roped in, in

order to develop a false story that the statement of the prosecutrix

under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was tutored one and was recorded under

pressure. (bbb) Although there is reference to the information given by

Constable Satyendra that the prosecutrix was tutored inside the Court

premises, but no videography of such an incident was done either by W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the lady constable or male constable Satyendra.

(ccc) Since, one Sonu Sharma had come to the Court, therefore,

Ganga Singh Bhadoria tried to make a mountain out of a mole.

(ddd) From the allegations in the applications made by Ganga Singh

Bhadoria, it is clear that Ganga Singh Bhadoria was aware of the fact

that the prosecutrix would be taken to the Court for recording of her

statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., therefore, he was keeping a

watch and has also provided the photographs of the prosecutrix, Sonu

Sharma, while they were in Court premises. (eee) The National Commission for Women had also taken

cognizance of beating of the prosecutrix in the police custody and

wrote a letter to D.G.P., State of Madhya Pradesh, asking for action

taking report, but inspite of that the Add. S.P. (East) did not take

pains to conduct the enquiry on her own and assigned the same to

C.S.P., Morar. (fff) C.S.P., Morar submitted his report dated 12-2-2021, from

which it is clear that after reproducing the statements of witnesses,

directly jumped to a conclusion that there is no proof of beating in

the police station. (ggg) C.S.P., Morar thereafter, submitted his report, that the

explanation given by S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar

on certain aspects is not acceptable. (hhh) However, C.S.P., Morar, again submitted his fresh report on 4- W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 6-2021 to the Add. S.P. (East) which was reproduction of first report. (iii) On 4-6-2021, Add. S.P. (East) directed her Reader to place the

report along with evidence and documents, but did not take any pains

to even look into the ocular and documentary evidence.

(jjj) From the application dated 28-5-2021, made by Ganga Singh

Bhadoria, it is clear that even police had pressurized the prosecutrix

to vacate the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, and that is why, the

father of the prosecutrix had made a complaint of harassment by the

police. (kkk) Thus, it is clear that the police was interested in destroying the

evidence against Ganga Singh Bhadoria and his grand son Aditya

Bhadoria. (lll) Although the parents of Aditya Bhadoria are still alive but they

did not come forward in support of Aditya Bhadoria.

(mmm) No steps were taken to apprehend Aditya Bhadoria and

his friends and even no proceedings were initiated under Section 82 and 83 of Cr.P.C. against the culprits inspite of repeated directions by

the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior. (lnnn) Section 46(4) of Cr.P.C. reads as under : the arrest is to be made. When a woman cannot be arrested after sunset and before

sunrise, then how police can keep a rape victim in the police station

for the whole night? Undisputedly, no orders from the competent

Court were obtained for keeping the rape victim in the police station

for the whole night. No orders from the Senior Officers like

Superintendent of Police or Inspector General of Police were

obtained. Thus, it is clear that the detention of the prosecutrix in the

police station for the whole intervening night of 31-1-2021 and 1-2-

2021 is a glaring example of violation of Fundamental Rights of the

rape victim under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.

(ooo) There is nothing in the case diary dated 1-2-2021, that since,

the prosecutrix refused to leave the police station, therefore She was

kept in Police Station, Morar. Even the case diary proceedings dated

1-2-2021 doesnot contain anything in this regard. The fact of

keeping the prosecutrix in Urja Desk, Police Station Morar is

mentioned in Rojnamchasanha only. (ppp) As per the medico-legal Examination Form dated 2-2-2021, the

Prosecutrix was referred to Orthopadician, but She was never taken

to Orthopedician. 152. Thus, from the facts and circumstances it is clear that the

prosecutrix is the maid servant of Ganga Singh Bhadoria and

conclusion can be drawn that before the prosecutrix could reach W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Police Station Morar, the ill designs of S.H.O., Police Station

Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhaya had

started taking shape and the prosecutrix was made to wait for near

about 3 hours in the police station and the F.I.R. was lodged

belatedly. Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya not only did not mention

the allegations made by the prosecutrix against Ganga Singh

Bhadoria in her videographed police statements, but even Ganga

Singh Bhadoria came to police station and he was requested to

provide the recording of CCTV cameras installed in his house,

instead of seizing the same immediately. Even the police did not

visit the place of incident which is the house of Ganga Singh

Bhadoria. The prosecutrix was in fact detained in the Police

Station for the entire night and on the next day, She was

mercilessly beaten and her two supplementary statements were

recorded and every effort was made to compel the prosecutrix to

change her version. Thereafter, when the prosecutrix leveled

allegations of beating by police, the S.H.O, Morar went to the

extent of leveling allegations against the J.M.F.C. and Govt.

Pleader. Even during the course of arguments, the C.S.P., Morar

leveled false allegations against the C.J.M., Gwalior, that he had

verbally directed the C.S.P., Morar to lodge the prosecutrix in One

Stop Center. Multiple bruises were found on the body of the

prosecutrix and inspite of the fact that the house of the prosecutrix W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . is situated at a distance of 25 Kms from the police station, but She

was sent to One Stop Center. Even the spot map was not prepared.

No attempts were made to apprehend Aditya Bhadoria and his

friend, but attempts are being made to divert the investigation at

the behest of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. No attempt was made to seal

the room of the prosecutrix and to collect incriminating/material

evidence from the spot. 153. Thus, it is held that the police has not conducted the

investigation in a free and fair manner and the entire efforts of police

are tainted and outcome of its ill design. Whether the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar,

Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, and other police officers are

guilty of criminal act or not? 154. This Court after detailed appreciation of facts, has come to a

prima facie conclusion that S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh

Pawar (Shri Ajay Singh Pawar) and Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya

are directly and indirectly involved in merciless beating of the

prosecutrix in the Police Station. According to the prosecutrix,

initially She was beaten by lady police and on second occasion, even

the Male police also joined hands in beating her. She has also stated

that T.I. had threatened her that She should depose before the

Magistrate in accordance with the wishes of the police department,

otherwise, She has to come back to the police Station and She would W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . be beaten even if She dies. 155. Thus, it is held that Ajay Singh Pawar and Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya as well as other police personals are prima facie guilty of

beating the prosecutrix in the police station.

Whether any direction for registration of F.I.R. can be given

against the police personals, specifically when they have not been

made party to this petition? 156. It is a trite law that an accused has no right of pre-audience

before registration of F.I.R. The Supreme Court in the case of Chandra Deo Singh Vs.

Prakash Chandra Bose reported in (1964) 1 SCR 639 has held as

under : Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . Further, order under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. is issued always

at pre-cognizance stage and whenever such an order is issued then the

police has to register the F.I.R. The Supreme Court in the case of Mohd. Yusuf Vs. Afaq Jahan reported in (2006) 1 SCC 627 has

held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs. State of

U.P. , reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Satishkumar Nyalchand

Shah v. State of Gujarat , reported in (2020) 4 SCC 22 has held as

under : State of A.P., it is observed and held that there is nothing in Section 173(8) CrPC to suggest that the court is obliged to
 hear the accused before any direction for further
 investigation is made. In Sri Bhagwan Samardha, this Court
 in para 11 held as under : (Sri Bhagwan Samardha case,
 SCC p. 743)
 "11. In such a situation the power of the court to direct
 the police to conduct further investigation cannot have
 any inhibition. There is nothing in Section 173(8) to
 suggest that the court is obliged to hear the accused
 before any such direction is made. Casting of any such
 obligation on the court would only result in
 encumbering the court with the burden of searching
 for all the potential accused to be afforded with the
 opportunity of being heard. As the law does not
 require it, we would not burden the Magistrate with
 such an obligation." The Supreme Court in the case of Dinubhai Boghabhai

Solanki v. State of Gujarat , reported in (2014) 4 SCC 626 has held

as under : Finger of suspicion had been pointed at the appellant by
 independent witnesses as well as by the grieved father of
 the victim. Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . The Supreme Court in the case of Union of India Vs. W.N.

Chadha reported in 1993 Supp (4) SCC 260 has held as under : The question is not whether audi alteram partem is implicit,
 but whether the occasion for its attraction exists at all. 90. Under the scheme of Chapter XII of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , there are various provisions under
 which no prior notice or opportunity of being heard is
 conferred as a matter of course to an accused person while
 the proceeding is in the stage of an investigation by a police
 officer. 91. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal this Court to which
 both of us (Ratnavel Pandian and K. Jayachandra Reddy,
 JJ.) were parties after making reference to the decision of
 the Privy Council in Emperor v. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad and
 the decision of this Court in State of Bihar v. J.A.C.
 Saldanha has pointed out that: (SCC p. 359, para 40)
 "... the field of investigation of any cognizable offence
 is exclusively within the domain of the investigating
 agencies over which the courts cannot have control
 and have no power to stifle or impinge upon the
 proceedings in the investigation so long as the
 investigation proceeds in compliance with the
 provisions relating to investigation...." 92. More so, the accused has no right to have any say as
 regards the manner and method of investigation. Save under
 certain exceptions under the entire scheme of the Code, the
 accused has no participation as a matter of right during the
 course of the investigation of a case instituted on a police
 report till the investigation culminates in filing of a final
 report under Section 173(2) of the Code or in a proceeding
 instituted otherwise than on a police report till the process is
 issued under Section 204 of the Code, as the case may be.
 Even in cases where cognizance of an offence is taken on a
 complaint notwithstanding that the said offence is triable by W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . a Magistrate or triable exclusively by the Court of Sessions,
 the accused has no right to have participation till the process
 is issued. In case the issue of process is postponed as
 contemplated under Section 202 of the Code, the accused
 may attend the subsequent inquiry but cannot participate.
 There are various judicial pronouncements to this effect but
 we feel that it is not necessary to recapitulate those
 decisions. At the same time, we would like to point out that
 there are certain provisions under the Code empowering the
 Magistrate to give an opportunity of being heard under
 certain specified circumstances. 98. If prior notice and an opportunity of hearing are to be
 given to an accused in every criminal case before taking
 any action against him, such a procedure would frustrate the
 proceedings, obstruct the taking of prompt action as law
 demands, defeat the ends of justice and make the provisions
 of law relating to the investigation lifeless, absurd and self-
 defeating. Further, the scheme of the relevant statutory
 provisions relating to the procedure of investigation does
 not attract such a course in the absence of any statutory
 obligation to the contrary. The Supreme Court in the case of Anju Choudhary Vs. State

of U.P. reported in (2013) 6 SCC 384 has held as under : suspect is entitled to any pre-registration hearing or any
such right is vested in the suspect. 31. The rule of audi alteram partem is subject to exceptions.
Such exceptions may be provided by law or by such
necessary implications where no other interpretation is
possible. Thus rule of natural justice has an application,
both under the civil and criminal jurisprudence. The laws
like detention and others, specifically provide for post-
detention hearing and it is a settled principle of law that
application of this doctrine can be excluded by exercise of
legislative powers which shall withstand judicial scrutiny.
The purpose of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Penal
Code, 1860 is to effectively execute administration of the
criminal justice system and protect society from perpetrators
of crime. It has a twin purpose; firstly to adequately punish
the offender in accordance with law and secondly, to ensure
prevention of crime. On examination, the scheme of the Criminal Procedure Code does not provide for any right of
hearing at the time of registration of the first information
report. As already noticed, the registration forthwith of a
cognizable offence is the statutory duty of a police officer-
in-charge of the police station. The very purpose of fair and
just investigation shall stand frustrated if pre-registration
hearing is required to be granted to a suspect. It is not that
the liberty of an individual is being taken away or is being
adversely affected, except by the due process of law. Where
the officer-in-charge of a police station is informed of a
heinous or cognizable offence, it will completely destroy the
purpose of proper and fair investigation if the suspect is
required to be granted a hearing at that stage and is not
subjected to custody in accordance with law. There would
be predominant possibility of a suspect escaping the process
of law. The entire scheme of the Code unambiguously
supports the theory of exclusion of audi alteram partem pre-
registration of an FIR. Upon registration of an FIR, a person
is entitled to take recourse to the various provisions of bail
and anticipatory bail to claim his liberty in accordance with
law. It cannot be said to be a violation of the principles of
natural justice for two different reasons: firstly, the Code
does not provide for any such right at that stage, secondly,
the absence of such a provision clearly demonstrates the
legislative intent to the contrary and thus necessarily
implies exclusion of hearing at that stage. This Court in Union of India v. W.N. Chadha clearly spelled out this
principle in para 98 of the judgment that reads as under: W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 The Supreme Court in the case of Samaj Parivartan

Samudaya v. State of Karnataka , reported in (2012) 7 SCC 407

has held as under : agency must provide a hearing to the affected party before
 registering an FIR or even before carrying on investigation
 prior to registration of case against the suspect. CBI, as
 already noticed, may even conduct pre-registration inquiry
 for which notice is not contemplated under the provisions
 of the Code, the Police Manual or even as per the
 precedents laid down by this Court. It is only in those cases
 where the Court directs initiation of investigation by a
 specialised agency or transfer investigation to such agency
 from another agency that the Court may, in its discretion,
 grant hearing to the suspect or affected parties. However,
 that also is not an absolute rule of law and is primarily a
 matter in the judicial discretion of the Court. This question
 is of no relevance to the present case as we have already
 heard the interveners. Thus, it is clear that unless and until FIR is registered, or

complaint filed under Section 200 of Cr.P.C. is registered and

summons are issued, the accused persons have no say in the matter.

Accordingly, non-joinder of Police Personals in this writ petition,

would not be a hurdle in issuing any direction for registration of

F.I.R. 157. During the course of arguments, a question was asked to the

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior as to whether the act of beating a

rape victim in the police station is a serious act or not and in case, the

allegations are found true, then what action is provided under the law.

Then it was submitted by Shri Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior that beating a rape victim in the police station is a serious act

on the part of the police personals and in such cases, criminal offence

is to be registered against them, apart from Departmental Enquiry. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 158. Accordingly, in the light of the reply submitted by Shri

Amit Sanghi, Superintendent of Police, as well in the light of

discussion mentioned above, the Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior is directed to register F.I.R. against S.H.O., Police

Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya and other unknown police personals for beating the

prosecutrix in the police station. Since, the prosecutrix was

illegally detained in the police station for the whole night,

therefore, offence under Section 341 of I.P.C. and any other

offence which according to S.P., Gwalior is made out, be also

registered. Further, the S.H.O., Police Station Morar, Shri Ajay

Singh Pawar, Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya and Lady

Constables who had videographed the statements of prosecutrix

are guilty of not keeping the video clippings of the statements of

the prosecutrix properly and in accordance with law and the

same have been transmitted on Whatsapp platform, therefore,

prima facie they are responsible for revealing the identity of the

rape victim, therefore, offence under Section 228-A of I.P.C. be

also registered against them. 159. Further, this Court has already come to a conclusion that

Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya has made material changes in the

statements of the prosecutrix and other witnesses written by her

under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., therefore, based on the video W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . clipping of the statements of prosecutrix and witnesses, it is

directed that offence under Section 467 , 468 , 471 of I.P.C. etc. be

also registered against Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya. 160. Further, this Court has come to a conclusion that S.H.O.,

Police Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar, Sub-Inspector Kirti

Upadhyaya were out and out to help out Ganga Singh Bhadoria

and went to extent of ensuring that the evidence against Ganga

Singh Bhadoria, and his grand son Aditya Bhadoria is not

collected and is destroyed. Thus, they are also prima facie guilty

of offence under Section 201 of I.P.C. The investigating agency

would be free to implicate every public and private person, who

is found involved in commission of aforesaid offences. 161. Further, in view of allegations made by the prosecutrix

against Ganga Singh Bhadoria in her videographed statement

dated 31-1-2021, it is directed that Ganga Singh Bhadoria be also

added as an accused in Crime No. 87/2021 registered at Police

Station Morar and since he had humiliated and threatened the

prosecutrix, therefore, offence under Section 3(1)(r)(s) of

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)

Act, 1989, Section 506 Part II of I.P.C . be also added in addition

to any other offence, which according to Superintendent of

Police, Gwalior is made out against Ganga Singh Bhadoria. 162. The present Investigating Officer is also prima facie found to W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . be guilty of negligence and manipulating the investigation and it is

also found that the police has gone to the extent of pressurizing the

prosecutrix to vacate the house of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. 163. So far as the role of C.S.P. Morar is concerned, the same cannot

be said to be in accordance with law. He was already informed by

headquarter of Dial 100 about the incident reported by the

prosecutrix, but even then he did not try to supervise the matter.

Even when he was summoned by the C.J.M., Gwalior, he did not

send the prosecutrix to her parental home and without any order of

the Court or without any order of the Superior Officer, directed for

lodging the prosecutrix in One Stop Center. Thus, the whole

intention of C.S.P., Morar was to some how keep the prosecutrix

away from the rest of the world. Thus, he is prima facie guilty of

dereliction of duties. Further, C.S.P., Morar during the course of

arguments had tried to level allegations against the C.J.M., Gwalior,

by saying that the prosecutrix was lodged in the One Stop Center on

the verbal directions of C.J.M., Gwalior. This explanation was false

because in every document it has been mentioned that the prosecutrix

was sent to One Stop Center on the orders of the C.S.P. Morar. 164. Since, this Court has held that Smt. Suman Gurjar, Add. S.P.

(East), Shri Ajay Singh Pawar (S.H.O., Police Station Morar), Sub-

Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya, Smt. Priti Bhargava (S.H.O., Police

Station Sirol, Distt. Gwalior), C.S.P. Morar have shown undue favor W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . to Ganga Singh Bhadoria and has not done the investigation/enquiry

in a free and fair manner, and the Add. S.P. (East) even did not touch

the file of enquiry and instead of conducting an enquiry by herself,

entrusted the same to the C.S.P., Morar, therefore, the Director

General of Police/competent officers are directed to initiate

departmental enquiry against the above mentioned police officers as

well as against those who were involved in beating the rape victim in

the police station. 165. Since, the presence of above mentioned police officers in their

police stations would not be conducive, therefore, the Director

General of Police is directed to transfer all the above mentioned

police officers out of Gwalior and Morena Range immediately.

The prayer 7(1) of the writ petition is answered accordingly.

Whether the Investigating Officer should be changed or the

Investigating Agency should be changed. 166. During the course of arguments, it was submitted by Shri Amit

Sanghi, Superintendent of Police that he may be granted one more

opportunity and he would handover the investigation to another Add.

S.P., who is an IPS Officer and he would personally monitor the

same. 167. Considered the submissions made by Shri Amit Sanghi. It is an

unfortunate case, where the police was listening to the persons

against whom allegations were made and even the rape victim was W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . detained in the police station for the whole night and the whole next

day and thereafter without any orders of the Court or Superior

Officers, the prosecutrix was sent to One Stop Center, instead of

sending her to her parental home. Even the prosecutrix was

mercilessly beaten in the police station in order to pressurize her to

change her version. The investigating officer, went to the extent of

pressuring the prosecutrix to vacate the house of Ganga Singh

Bhadoria. The Investigating Officers, even did not care to follow the

instructions of the Superintendent of Police, and no proceedings

under Section 82 and 83 of Cr.P.C. were initiated against the culprits

inspite of the direction of the Superintendent of Police. The

unfortunate part is that when the Superintendent of Police had

already come to know that a serious allegation of beating in the

police station has been leveled by the prosecutrix, even then he did

not talk to the prosecutrix. Even the Add. S.P. (East) did not talk to

the prosecutrix. The applications made by Ganga Singh Bhadoria

were entertained and the entire investigation was done on the

dictations of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, whereas it is settled law, that the

accused has no right to dictate that in what manner the investigation

is to be done. 168. The Supreme Court in the case of Romila Thapar Vs. Union

of India reported in (2018) 10 SCC 753 has held as under : opinion that the issue is no more res integra. In Narmada
Bai v. State of Gujarat , in para 64, this Court restated that it
is trite law that the accused persons do not have a say in the
matter of appointment of investigating agency. Further, the
accused persons cannot choose as to which investigating
agency must investigate the offence committed by them.
Para 64 of this decision reads thus: (SCC p. 100)
 "64. ... It is trite law that the accused persons do not
 have a say in the matter of appointment of an
 investigating agency. The accused persons cannot
 choose as to which investigating agency must
 investigate the alleged offence committed by them." (emphasis supplied) 25. Again in Sanjiv Rajendra Bhatt v. Union of India , the
Court restated that the accused had no right with reference
to the manner of investigation or mode of prosecution. Para
68 of this judgment reads thus: (SCC p. 40)
 "68. The accused has no right with reference to the
 manner of investigation or mode of prosecution. Similar is the law laid down by this Court in Union of
 India v. W.N. Chadha , Mayawati v. Union of India , Dinubhai Boghabhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat , CBI
 v. Rajesh Gandhi , CCI v. SAIL and Janata Dal v. H.S.
 Chowdhary ." (emphasis supplied) 26. Recently, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in E.
Sivakumar v. Union of India , while dealing with the appeal
preferred by the "accused" challenging the order of the
High Court directing investigation by CBI, in para 10
observed: (SCC pp. 370-71)
 "10. As regards the second ground urged by the
 petitioner, we find that even this aspect has been duly
 considered in the impugned judgment. In para 129 of
 the impugned judgment, reliance has been placed on Dinubhai Boghabhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat ,
 wherein it has been held that in a writ petition seeking
 impartial investigation, the accused was not entitled to
 opportunity of hearing as a matter of course. Reliance
 has also been placed on Narender G. Goel v. State of
 Maharashtra , in particular, para 11 of the reported
 decision wherein the Court observed that it is well
 settled that the accused has no right to be heard at the
 stage of investigation. By entrusting the investigation
 to CBI which, as aforesaid, was imperative in the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . peculiar facts of the present case, the fact that the
 petitioner was not impleaded as a party in the writ
 petition or for that matter, was not heard, in our
 opinion, will be of no avail. That per se cannot be the
 basis to label the impugned judgment as a nullity." 169. The next question for consideration is that whether only the

accused is entitled for free and fair investigation or whether the

victim is also entitled for free and fair investigation. The Supreme

Court in the case of Nirmal Singh Kahlon Vs. State of Punjab reported in (2009) 1 SCC 441 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Zahira Habibulla H.

Sheikh v. State of Gujarat , reported in (2004) 4 SCC 158 has held

as under : Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 170. It is true that an accused is also entitled for free and fair

investigation, but under the garb of free and fair investigation, the

police personals cannot go to the extent of harassing the rape victim,

as well as beating her in the police station in order to pressurize her

to change her version, as well as deliberately omitting the allegations

in the statement of the rape victim in order to save accused. 171. Thus, it is clear that the police personals have not only acted on

the dictations of Ganga Singh Bhadoria, but also diverted the

investigation right from the very beginning as per the dictations of

Ganga Singh Bhadoria. Therefore, the submission made by the

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior to give one more chance to change

the Investigating Officer cannot be accepted, specifically when the

police officers are involved and the entire attempt of the police

officers is to save its officers and to prove that the prosecutrix has

made false allegations at the behest of other persons.

Whether this Court can suo motu direct for transfer of

investigation to other Agency or not? 172. The Supreme Court in the case of D.K. Basu Vs. State of W.B. reported in (1997) 1 SCC 416 has held as under : be derived from law but also that the same should be
limited by law. Custodial violence is a matter of concern. It
is aggravated by the fact that it is committed by persons
who are supposed to be the protectors of the citizens. It is
committed under the shield of uniform and authority in the
four walls of a police station or lock-up, the victim being
totally helpless. The protection of an individual from
torture and abuse by the police and other law-enforcing
officers is a matter of deep concern in a free society. These
petitions raise important issues concerning police powers,
including whether monetary compensation should be
awarded for established infringement of the Fundamental
Rights guaranteed by Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution
of India. The issues are fundamental. 10. "Torture" has not been defined in the Constitution or in
other penal laws. "Torture" of a human being by another
human being is essentially an instrument to impose the will
of the "strong" over the "weak" by suffering. The word
torture today has become synonymous with the darker side
of human civilisation. -- Adriana P. Bartow 11. No violation of any one of the human rights has been
the subject of so many Conventions and Declarations as
"torture" -- all aiming at total banning of it in all forms, but
in spite of the commitments made to eliminate torture, the
fact remains that torture is more widespread now than ever
before. "Custodial torture" is a naked violation of human
dignity and degradation which destroys, to a very large
extent, the individual personality. It is a calculated assault
on human dignity and whenever human dignity is wounded,
civilisation takes a step backward -- flag of humanity must
on each such occasion fly half-mast. 12. In all custodial crimes what is of real concern is not
only infliction of body pain but the mental agony which a
person undergoes within the four walls of police station or
lock-up. Whether it is physical assault or rape in police
custody, the extent of trauma, a person experiences is W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . beyond the purview of law. 13. "Custodial violence" and abuse of police power is not
 only peculiar to this country, but it is widespread. It has
 been the concern of international community because the
 problem is universal and the challenge is almost global. The
 Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, which
 marked the emergence of a worldwide trend of protection
 and guarantee of certain basic human rights, stipulates in Article 5 that: "No one shall be subjected to torture or to
 cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment."
 Despite the pious declaration the crime continues unabated,
 though every civilised nation shows its concern and takes
 steps for its eradication. The Supreme Court in the case of State of W.B. v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, reported in (2010) 3 SCC 571

has held as under : Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (iii) In view of the constitutional scheme and the
jurisdiction conferred on this Court under Article 32 and on the High Courts under Article 226 of the
Constitution the power of judicial review being an
integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution,
no Act of Parliament can exclude or curtail the powers
of the constitutional courts with regard to the
enforcement of fundamental rights. As a matter of fact,
such a power is essential to give practicable content to
the objectives of the Constitution embodied in Part III
and other parts of the Constitution. Moreover, in a
federal constitution, the distribution of legislative
powers between Parliament and the State Legislature
involves limitation on legislative powers and,
therefore, this requires an authority other than
Parliament to ascertain whether such limitations are
transgressed. Judicial review acts as the final arbiter
not only to give effect to the distribution of legislative
powers between Parliament and the State Legislatures,
it is also necessary to show any transgression by each
entity. Therefore, to borrow the words of Lord Steyn,
judicial review is justified by combination of "the
principles of separation of powers, rule of law, the
principle of constitutionality and the reach of judicial
review". (iv) If the federal structure is violated by any
legislative action, the Constitution takes care to protect
the federal structure by ensuring that the Courts act as
guardians and interpreters of the Constitution and
provide remedy under Articles 32 and 226 , whenever
there is an attempted violation. In the circumstances,
any direction by the Supreme Court or the High Court
in exercise of power under Article 32 or 226 to uphold
the Constitution and maintain the rule of law cannot be
termed as violating the federal structure. (v) Restriction on Parliament by the Constitution and
restriction on the executive by Parliament under an
enactment, do not amount to restriction on the power
of the Judiciary under Articles 32 and 226 of the
Constitution. (vi) If in terms of Entry 2 of List II of the Seventh
Schedule on the one hand and Entry 2-A and Entry 80
of List I on the other, an investigation by another
agency is permissible subject to grant of consent by
the State concerned, there is no reason as to why, in an W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . exceptional situation, the Court would be precluded
 from exercising the same power which the Union
 could exercise in terms of the provisions of the statute.
 In our opinion, exercise of such power by the
 constitutional courts would not violate the doctrine of
 separation of powers. In fact, if in such a situation the
 Court fails to grant relief, it would be failing in its
 constitutional duty. (vii) When the Special Police Act itself provides that
 subject to the consent by the State, CBI can take up
 investigation in relation to the crime which was
 otherwise within the jurisdiction of the State police,
 the Court can also exercise its constitutional power of
 judicial review and direct CBI to take up the
 investigation within the jurisdiction of the State. The
 power of the High Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution cannot be taken away, curtailed or diluted
 by Section 6 of the Special Police Act. Irrespective of
 there being any statutory provision acting as a
 restriction on the powers of the Courts, the restriction
 imposed by Section 6 of the Special Police Act on the
 powers of the Union, cannot be read as restriction on
 the powers of the constitutional courts. Therefore,
 exercise of power of judicial review by the High
 Court, in our opinion, would not amount to
 infringement of either the doctrine of separation of
 power or the federal structure. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Central

Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , reported in (2011) 9 SCC 182

has held as under:- 173. Although the petitioner has only prayed for change of

Investigating officer, but as the petitioner had no access to the case

diary, therefore, She was not aware of the fact that in what manner

the police has manipulated the investigation. But once, this Court

has come to a conclusion that the Police Officers were doing tainted

investigation with oblique motive, then this Court would be failing in W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . discharging its Constitution obligation to uphold the life and liberty

of a rape victim, if the local police is still permitted to continue with

the investigation. 174. The Supreme Court in the case of R.S. Sodhi v. State of U.P. reported in 1994 Supp (1) SCC 143 has held as under : The Supreme Court in the case of Kashmeri Devi v. Delhi

Admn., reported in 1988 Supp SCC 482 has held as under : responded to her complaint. The Additional Sessions Judge
 while considering the bail application of Jagmal Singh,
 Constable, considered the autopsy report and observed that
 doctor had postponed giving his opinion regarding the
 cause of death although the injuries were ante-mortem. The
 learned Sessions Judge referring to a number of
 circumstances observed that the investigating officer had
 converted the case from Section 302 IPC to Section 304 IPC on flimsy grounds within hours of the registration of
 the case even without waiting for the post-mortem report.
 The learned Sessions Judge further observed that it was a
 prima facie case of deliberate murder of an innocent
 illiterate poor citizen of Delhi in police custody and
 investigation was partisan. 6. We are in full agreement with the observations made by
 the learned Sessions Judge. As already noted during the
 pendency of the writ petition before the High Court and
 special leave petition before this Court the case was further
 converted from Section 304 IPC to Section 323 / 34 IPC.
 Prima facie the police has acted in partisan manner to shield
 the real culprits and the investigation of the case has not
 been done in a proper and objective manner. We are
 therefore of the opinion that in the interest of justice it is
 necessary to get a fresh investigation made through an
 independent authority so that truth may be known.

 The Supreme Court in the case of Rubabbuddin Sheikh v.

State of Gujarat , reported in (2010) 2 SCC 200 has held as under : investigate into the matter. Since the high police officials of
 the State of Gujarat are involved and some of them had
 already been in custody, we are also of the view that it
 would not be sufficient to instil confidence in the minds of
 the victims as well as of the public that still the State police
 authorities would be allowed to continue with the
 investigation when allegations and offences were mostly
 against them. 81. In the present circumstances and in view of the
 involvement of the police officials of the State in this crime,
 we cannot shut our eyes and direct the State police
 authorities to continue with the investigation and the
 charge-sheet and for a proper and fair investigation, we also
 feel that CBI should be requested to take up the
 investigation and submit a report in this Court within six
 months from the date of handing over a copy of this
 judgment and the records relating to this crime to them.

 The Supreme Court in the case of Mithilesh Kumar Singh v.

State of Rajasthan reported in (2015) 9 SCC 795 has held as under : particularly so when transfer is ordered to an outside
 agency perceived to be independent of influences,
 pressures and pulls that are commonplace when State
 Police investigates matters of some significance. The
 confidence of the party seeking transfer in the outside
 agency in such cases itself rests on the independence of
 that agency from such or similar other considerations. It
 follows that unless the Court sees any design behind the
 prayer for transfer, the same must be seen as an attempt
 only to ensure that the truth is discovered. The hallmark of
 a transfer is the perceived independence of the transferee
 more than any other consideration. Discovery of truth is the
 ultimate purpose of any investigation and who can do it
 better than an agency that is independent. * * * * 15. Suffice it to say that transfers have been ordered in
 varied situations but while doing so the test applied by the
 Court has always been whether a direction for transfer, was
 keeping in view the nature of allegations, necessary with a
 view to making the process of discovery of truth credible.
 What is important is that this Court has rarely, if ever,
 viewed at the threshold the prayer for transfer of
 investigation to CBI with suspicion. There is no reluctance
 on the part of the Court to grant relief to the victims or their
 families in cases, where intervention is called for, nor is it
 necessary for the petitioner seeking a transfer to make out a
 cast-iron case of abuse or neglect on the part of the State
 Police, before ordering a transfer. Transfer can be ordered
 once the Court is satisfied on the available material that
 such a course will promote the cause of justice, in a given
 case. 175. If the fact of this case are considered, then it is clear that the

police officers of Police Station Morar and Sirol are involved in

tainted investigation with oblique motive. Even the Add. S.P. (East)

did not show any interest in conducting an enquiry into the

allegations of merciless beating of the rape victim inside the police

station. Even the C.J.M., Gwalior directed for transfer of W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . investigation to some other officer, but still the things did not

improve, and even the changed investigating officer started dancing

to the tunes of Ganga Singh Bhadoria. Under these circumstances,

this Court is left with no other option but to direct for transfer of

investigation of Crime No. 87/2021 registered at Police Station

Morar, Distt. Gwalior to CBI. The Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior is directed to handover the entire original documents

including the file of Add. S.P. (East) to the CBI. The Director of

CBI, is directed to assign this investigation to a Senior Officer. 176. It is made clear that facts of the case have been considered in

detail in order to find out as to whether the investigation which was

being done by the police was free and fair or was tainted one.

Therefore, all the observations are confined to this writ petition only,

and the Investigating Officer is directed to investigate the matter in a

free and fair manner. 177. CBI is also directed to collect the record of phone calls of

Ganga Singh Bhadoria, Add. S.P. (East), C.S.P., Morar, S.H.O. Police

Station Morar Ajay Singh Pawar, S.H.O., Police Station Sirol Smt.

Priti Bhargava, Sub-Inspector Kirti Upadhyaya from 31-1-2021

onwards to find out that for how many times, Ganga Singh Bhadoria

had talked to the above mentioned officers. If it is found that Ganga

Singh Bhadoria was in touch with any of the above mentioned Police

Officer, then not only the CDRs shall be immediately forwarded to W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . the Director General Of Police, State of Madhya Pradesh for taking

immediate action against the erring police officer under Service Law,

but the CBI shall also register the offence under Section 201 etc. of

I.P.C. 178. Before parting with this order, this Court would like to deal

with the CCTV cameras installed in Police Station Morar, which

were reported to be out of order. 179. In the enquiry report submitted by Shri R.N. Pachouri, C.S.P.,

Morar, it is mentioned that the CCTV Cameras installed in Police

Station Morar are out of order from 25-7-2020. Thus,it is clear that

the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, C.S.P., Morar, S.H.O., Police

Station Morar, Ajay Singh Pawar and Incharge CCTV Camera, Police

Control Room, Gwalior did not ensure that the CCTV cameras

installed in the Police Station should remain in working condition. 180. The Supreme Court in the case of D.K. Basu v. State of W.B. ,

reported in (2015) 8 SCC 744 has held as under : abuse, it is heartening to note that all the States have in their
affidavits supported the recommendation for installation of
CCTV cameras in police stations and prisons. In some of
the States, steps appear to have already been initiated in that
direction. In the State of Bihar, CCTV cameras in all prisons
and in 44 police stations in the State have already been
installed. So also the State of Tamil Nadu plans to equip all
police stations with CCTV cameras. The State of Haryana
has stated that CCTV cameras should be installed in all
police stations, especially, at the entrance and in the
lockups. The Union Territories of Andaman & Nicobar and
Puducherry have also installed CCTV cameras in most of
the police stations. Some other States also appear to be
taking steps to do so. Some of the States have, however,
remained silent and non-committal on the issue. 33. We do not for the present consider it necessary to issue a
direction for installation of CCTV cameras in all police
stations. We are of the opinion that the matter cannot be left
to be considered by the State Governments concerned,
having regard to the fact that several other State
Governments have already taken action in that direction
which we consider is commendable. All that we need say is
that the State Governments may consider taking an
appropriate decision in this regard, and appropriate action
wherever it is considered feasible to install CCTV cameras
in police stations. Some of these police stations may be
located in sensitive areas prone to human rights violation.
The States would, therefore, do well in identifying such
police stations in the first instance and providing the
necessary safeguard against such violation by installing
CCTV cameras in the same. The process can be completed
in a phased manner depending upon the nature and the
extent of violation and the experience of the past. 34. In regard to CCTV cameras in prison, we see no reason
why all the States should not do so. CCTV cameras will
help go a long way in preventing violation of human rights
of those incarcerating in jails. It will also help the
authorities in maintaining proper discipline among the
inmates and taking corrective measures wherever abuses are
noticed. This can be done in our opinion expeditiously and
as far as possible within a period of one year from the date
of this order. The Supreme Court in the case of Shafhi Mohd. v. State of W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . H.P.,reported in (2018) 5 SCC 311 has held as under : Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . 13. We may also refer to a connected issue already dealt
 with by this Court in D.K. Basu v. State of W.B. This Court
 directed that with a view to check human rights abuse
 CCTV cameras be installed in all police stations as well as
 in prisons. There is need for a further direction that in every
 State an oversight mechanism be created whereby an
 independent committee can study the CCTV camera
 footages and periodically publish report of its observations.
 Let the COB issue appropriate instructions in this regard at
 the earliest. The COB may also compile information as to
 compliance of such instructions in the next three months
 and give a report to this Court. The Supreme Court in the case of Paramvir Singh Saini Vs.

Baljit Singh reported in (2021) 1 SCC 184 has held as under : Taken Reports fail to disclose the exact position of CCTV
 cameras qua each police station. The affidavits are bereft of
 details with respect to the total number of police stations
 functioning in the respective State and Union Territory;
 total number of CCTV cameras installed in each and every
 police station; the positioning of the CCTV cameras already
 installed; working condition of the CCTV cameras; whether
 the CCTV cameras have a recording facility, if yes, then for
 how many days/hours, have not been disclosed. Further, the
 position qua constitution of Oversight Committees in
 accordance with the order dated 3-4-2018 2, and/or details
 with respect to the Oversight Committees already
 constituted in the respective States and Union Territories
 have also not been disclosed. 9. Compliance affidavits by all the States and Union
 Territories are to be filed, as has been stated earlier, by
 either the Principal Secretary of the State or the Secretary,
 Home Department of the States/Union Territories. This is to
 be done by all the States and Union Territories, including
 those who have filed so-called compliance affidavits till
 date, stating the details mentioned in para 8 of this order.
 These affidavits are to be filed within a period of six weeks
 from today. 10. So far as constitution of Oversight Committees in
 accordance with our order dated 3-4-2018 is concerned, this
 should be done at the State and district levels. The State
 Level Oversight Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . SLOC") must consist of: 11. So far as the District Level Oversight Committee
 (hereinafter referred to as "DLOC") is concerned, this
 should comprise of: 12. It shall be the duty of the SLOC to see that the
 directions passed by this Court are carried out. Amongst
 others, the duties shall consist of: Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (e) To review footage stored from CCTVs in the
 various police stations to check for any human rights
 violation that may have occurred but are not reported. 13. It is obvious that none of this can be done without
allocation of adequate funds for the same, which must be
done by the States'/Union Territories' Finance Departments
at the very earliest. 14. The duty and responsibility for the working,
maintenance and recording of CCTVs shall be that of the
SHO of the police station concerned. It shall be the duty
and obligation of the SHO to immediately report to the
DLOC any fault with the equipment or malfunctioning of
CCTVs. If the CCTVs are not functioning in a particular
police station, the SHO concerned shall inform the DLOC
of the arrest/interrogations carried out in that police station
during the said period and forward the said record to the
DLOC. If the SHO concerned has reported malfunctioning
or non-functioning of CCTVs of a particular police station,
the DLOC shall immediately request the SLOC for repair
and purchase of the equipment, which shall be done
immediately. 15. The Director General/Inspector General of Police of
each State and Union Territory should issue directions to
the person in charge of a police station to entrust the SHO
of the police station concerned with the responsibility of
assessing the working condition of the CCTV cameras
installed in the police station and also to take corrective
action to restore the functioning of all non-functional
CCTV cameras. The SHO should also be made responsible
for CCTV data maintenance, backup of data, fault
rectification, etc. 16. The State and Union Territory Governments should
ensure that CCTV cameras are installed in each and every
police station functioning in the respective State and/or
Union Territory. Further, in order to ensure that no part of a
police station is left uncovered, it is imperative to ensure
that CCTV cameras are installed at all entry and exit points;
main gate of the police station; all lock-ups; all corridors;
lobby/the reception area; all verandahs/outhouses,
Inspector's room; Sub-Inspector's room; areas outside the
lock-up room; station hall; in front of the police station
compound; outside (not inside) washrooms/toilets; Duty
Officer's room; back part of the police station, etc. 17. CCTV systems that have to be installed must be W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . equipped with night vision and must necessarily consist of
audio as well as video footage. In areas in which there is
either no electricity and/or internet, it shall be the duty of
the States/Union Territories to provide the same as
expeditiously as possible using any mode of providing
electricity, including solar/wind power. The internet
systems that are provided must also be systems which
provide clear image resolutions and audio. Most important
of all is the storage of CCTV camera footage which can be
done in digital video recorders and/or network video
recorders. CCTV cameras must then be installed with such
recording systems so that the data that is stored thereon
shall be preserved for a period of 18 months. If the
recording equipment, available in the market today, does
not have the capacity to keep the recording for 18 months
but for a lesser period of time, it shall be mandatory for all
States, Union Territories and the Central Government to
purchase one which allows storage for the maximum period
possible, and, in any case, not below 1 year. It is also made
clear that this will be reviewed by all the States so as to
purchase equipment which is able to store the data for 18
months as soon as it is commercially available in the
market. The affidavit of compliance to be filed by all States
and Union Territories and Central Government shall clearly
indicate that the best equipment available as of date has
been purchased. 18. Whenever there is information of force being used at
police stations resulting in serious injury and/or custodial
deaths, it is necessary that persons be free to complain for a
redressal of the same. Such complaints may not only be
made to the State Human Rights Commission, which is then
to utilise its powers, more particularly under Sections 17 and 18 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, for
redressal of such complaints, but also to Human Rights
Courts, which must then be set up in each district of every
State/Union Territory under Section 30 of the aforesaid Act.
The Commission/Court can then immediately summon
CCTV camera footage in relation to the incident for its safe
keeping, which may then be made available to an
investigating agency in order to further process the
complaint made to it. 19. The Union of India is also to file an affidavit in which it
will update this Court on the constitution and workings of
the Central Oversight Body, giving full particulars thereof. In addition, the Union of India is also directed to install W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . CCTV cameras and recording equipment in the offices of: As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their
 office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all
 offices where such interrogation and holding of accused
 takes place in the same manner as it would in a police
 station. 20. The COB shall perform the same function as the
 SLOC for the offices of investigative/enforcement
 agencies mentioned above both in Delhi and outside
 Delhi wherever they be located. 21. The SLOC and the COB (where applicable) shall
 give directions to all police stations,
 investigative/enforcement agencies to prominently
 display at the entrance and inside the police
 stations/offices of investigative/enforcement agencies
 about the coverage of the premises concerned by
 CCTV. This shall be done by large posters in English,
 Hindi and vernacular language. In addition to the
 above, it shall be clearly mentioned therein that a
 person has a right to complain about human rights
 violations to the National/State Human Rights
 Commission, Human Rights Court or the
 Superintendent of Police or any other authority
 empowered to take cognizance of an offence. It shall
 further mention that CCTV footage is preserved for a
 certain minimum time period, which shall not be less
 than six months, and the victim has a right to have the
 same secured in the event of violation of his human
 rights. 22. Since these directions are in furtherance of the
 fundamental rights of each citizen of India guaranteed
 under Article 21 of the Constitution, and since nothing
 substantial has been done in this regard for a period of
 over 2½ years since our first order dated 3-4-2018, the
 Executive/Administrative/police authorities are to
 implement this order both in letter and in spirit as soon W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . as possible. Affidavits will be filed by the Principal
 Secretary/Cabinet Secretary/Home Secretary of each
 State/Union Territory giving this Court a firm action
 plan with exact timelines for compliance with today's
 order. This is to be done within a period of six weeks
 from today. 181. The above judgment was passed by the Supreme Court on 02-

12-2020 and a specific direction was given to comply the directions

within a period of six weeks, but unfortunately, due to hostile attitude

of the District Police, Gwalior towards the directions issued by the

Highest Court of the Country, they did not even try to put the CCTV

cameras in working orders which are already installed in the police

station . 182. Accordingly, the Director General of Police, State of Madhya

Pradesh is directed to immediately implement the directions given by

the Supreme Court in the case of Paramvir Singh (Supra). The

Superintendent of Police, Gwalior is directed to ensure that every

Police Station situated within his jurisdiction has not only the CCTV

cameras in working order but the cameras must be installed in such a

manner that every room of the concerning Police Station is covered

by the CCTV camera. 183. The CBI is directed to provide full protection to the prosecutrix

and must ensure that not only her pride and dignity is maintained but

She is not pressurized in any manner. Even otherwise, the Supreme

Court in the case of Mahender Chawla Vs Union of India , reported W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . in (2019) 14 SCC 615 has formulated a Witness Protection Scheme. 184. Since, the petitioner has not prayed for payment of

compensation for violation of her Fundamental Rights under Article

21 of the Constitution of India, therefore, liberty is granted to her to

pursue such relief in appropriate forum. 185. With aforesaid observations, the writ petition is Allowed with

cost of Rs. 50,000/-. The cost shall be deposited by the respondents

within a period of 10 days from today in the Registry of this Court

and the petitioner shall be free to withdraw the same. 186. The Superintendent of Police, Gwalior is directed to keep the

original case diary as well as the file of the office of Add. S.P. (East),

Record of Dial 100 and the copies of the Rojnamcha sanhas provided

to this Court in sealed cover and handover the same to CBI. 187. It was informed by Shri Raghuvanshi that the Pen Drive

provided to the Court, which contains the video clippings of three

statements of the prosecutrix i.e., first statement recorded on 31-1-

2021 and two supplementary statements recorded on 1-2-2021,

statement of father of the prosecutrix and statement of Dharmendra

Dhakad, is not the original copy, but it has been prepared for the

purposes of the Court. Accordingly, the Reader of the Court is

directed to retain the Pen Drive and keep the same in the file of this

Case in a sealed cover. 188. Accordingly, the original case diary, original file of Add. S.P. W.P. No. 5321 of 2021 Prosecutrix (Minor) through her Natural Guardian
 Vs.
 State of M.P. & Ors . (East), print out of record of Dial 100, and print out of

Rojnamchasanhas be returned to the Superintendent of Police,

Gwalior only. (G.S. Ahluwalia)
 Judge

 ARUN KUMAR MISHRA
 2021.06.24 13:33:01 +05'30'