Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioner and learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State. Let the defect(s), if any, be removed within a period

 of four weeks from today. The petitioner seeks bail in connection with Motihari

 Town P.S. Case No. 435 of 2021 registered for the offence under Sections 420 and 379 of the Indian Penal Code (for short

 ' I.P.C .') and under Section 66(D) of the I.T. Act. The accused/petitioner is not named in the F.I.R. and

 is in custody since 12.01.2022. The allegation against the petitioner is of cheating and

 committing theft alongwith other co-accused persons and while
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.66759 of 2022(2) dt.23-02-2023 2/3 committing so fraudulently, transferred cash of Rs. 9,10,000/-

 (Rupees Nine Lac Ten Thousand) from the account of informant

 to other account by using forged mobile sim and misuse of

 electronic devices. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner

 submitted that the name of petitioner surfaced, during the course

 of investigation, on the basis of confessional statement of co-

 accused, namely, Rajesh Kumar. It is also submitted that

 specific allegation, as regard to cloning of sim, is available

 against co-accused Dipak Kumar, whereas alleged transferred

 money from the account of informant was received by co-

 accused Rajesh Kumar Manna. It is also pointed out that the

 maximum allegation available against this petitioner is to be

 have in possession of 12 Aadhar Card of different people, where

 the photograph of petitioner is available on Aadhar Card,

 whereas recovered Motorola andriod mobile having two sims

 and a blue colour Hero company mobile belongs to petitioner. It

 is submitted that mere on the basis of 12 forged aadhar card,

 petitioner cannot be connected with present occurrence, as

 alleged. While concluding the argument, it has been submitted

 that petitioner also found involved in six cases of similar nature,

 where he is on bail in three cases and moreover, investigation of
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.66759 of 2022(2) dt.23-02-2023 3/3 this case has already completed, for which, charge-sheet has

 been submitted, as such, there is no chance of tampering with

 the evidence. Learned APP, while opposing the prayer of bail, fairly

 conceded that petitioner is not named in F.I.R. Considering the facts and circumstances as mentioned

 above, as thrust of allegation, as regard to cloning sim and

 receiving benefit of alleged transaction, is not available against

 this petitioner coupled with the fact that charge-sheet has

 already been submitted, let the petitioner, above named, is

 directed to be released on bail in connection with Motihari

 Town P.S. Case No. 435 of 2021 on furnishing bail bond of

 Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) with two sureties of the like

 amount each to the satisfaction of learned Chief Judicial

 Magistrate, Motihari, East Champaran/concerned court, subject

 to the conditions as mentioned under Section 437 (3) of the

 Cr.P.C. (Chandra Shekhar Jha, J)
pooja/-