(Air Cargo Export),
New Custom House,
New Delhi. APPEARANCE: 2. The appellant is an authorized courier under the Regulations.
These Regulations apply to assessment and clearance of imported or
export goods carried by an authorized courier by air on behalf of a
consignee or consignor at Customs airports. Whenever any goods are
imported through courier instead of the normal procedure in which the
importer or a Customs Broker files a bill of entry for the imported
goods, in courier imports, the authorized courier or his agent files an
electronic manifest of the imported goods prior to its arrival with the
proper officer in express cargo manifest - import (ECM - I) form. The
courier packages containing the imported goods cannot be dealt with in
any manner except as directed by the Commissioner of Customs and no
person shall, except with the permission of proper officer, open any
packages of imported goods. The authorized courier shall present the
imported goods to the proper officer for inspection, screening,
examination and assessment. Thereafter, the authorized courier pays
the import duty, if any, applicable on the imported goods and after
clearance by the customs delivers the goods to the consignees and
collects the customs duties from them. 3. Since this is a sensitive job involving clearance of imported
goods, the permission to operate as courier for import and export goods
requires registration which is granted after ensuring that the necessary
qualifications and conditions are made. Regulation 12 places some
obligations on the authorized courier. Regulation 13 provides for the
suspension and revocation of the registration of the authorized courier
and forfeiture of security deposit on some grounds including failure of
the authorized courier to comply with any of the provisions of the
Regulations. Regulation 14 provides for imposition of penalty upto Rs.
50,000/- upon the authorized courier. 4. Regulation 12, 13 and 14 are reproduced:- Provided that for import of documents, gifts and samples, and
 low value dutiable consignments for which declaration have been
 3 C/52724 of 2019

filed in, Form-B or the Courier Bill of Entry-XI (CBE-XI), Form C or
the Courier Bill of Entry-XII (CBE-XII) or Form-D or Courier Bill of
Entry- XIII (CBE-XIII) respectively, the authorization may be
obtained at the time of delivery of the consignment to consignee
subject to the production of consignors authorisation at pre-
clearance stage and retention of authorisation obtained from the
consignee for a period of one year or date of Audit by Customs,
whichever is earlier. (ii) file electronic declarations, for clearance of imported or export
goods, through a person who has passed the examination referred to
in regulation 8 or regulation 19 of the Customs House Agents
Licensing Regulations, 2004 and who are duly authorized under
section 146 of the Act; Provided that a transition period upto 31st December, 2011
shall be allowed to the Authorised Courier for fulfillment of the
obligation in so far as it relates to examination referred to in
regulation 8 of the Customs House Agents Licensing Regulations,
2004. (iii) advise his consignor or consignee to comply with the provisions
of the Act, rules and regulations made there under and in case of
non-compliance thereof, he shall bring the matter to the notice of
the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs; (iv) verify the antecedent, correctness of Importer Exporter Code
(IEC) Number, identity of his client and the functioning of his client
in the declared address by using reliable, independent, authentic
documents, data or information; (v) exercise due diligence to ascertain the correctness
and completeness of any information which he submits to the
proper officer with reference to any work related to the
clearance of imported goods or of export goods; (vi) not withhold information communicated to him by an officer
of customs, relating to assessment and clearance of imported goods
as well as inspection, examination and Clearance of export goods,
from a consignor or consignee who is entitled to such information; (vii) not withhold any information relating to assessment and
clearance of imported goods or of export goods, from the Assessing
Officer; (viii) not attempt to influence the conduct of any officer of
Customs in any matter pending before such officer or his
subordinates by the use of threat, false accusation, duress or offer of
any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing
of any gift or favour or other thing or value; (ix) maintain records and accounts in such form and manner as
may be directed from time to time by an Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner or Customs for a period of five
years and submit them for inspection to the Assistant Commissioner
of Customs or an officer authorised by him, wherever required; and (x) abide by all the provisions of the Act and the rules, regulations,
notifications and orders issued there under. 4 C/52724 of 2019 13. Suspension or revocation of registration
 of authorised courier. (1) The Commissioner of Customs may revoke the
 registration of an Authorised Courier and also pass an order
 for forfeiture of security on any of the following grounds
 namely:- 14. Penalty. - An Authorised Courier, who contravenes any of the provisions of
 these regulations or abets such contravention or who fails to comply
 with any provision of these regulations with which it was his
 obligation to comply, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend
 to fifty thousand rupees. 5. The appellant filed declarations in respect of the following airway
bills. 6. The declared goods were „Sample Shoes‟ and every airway bill
had 30 pairs totalling 450 pairs. Information was received by customs
authorities that branded shoes were being imported by some importers
in the guise of „sample shoes‟ in association with the appellant. So, they
opened and examined the above 15 consignments of shoes of 30 pairs
each and seized them under Section 110 of the Customs Act.
Subsequent investigations showed that these were counterfeit goods
and, therefore, they were confiscated under Section 111 of the Customs
Act, 19622 for violation of intellectual property rights of the brand owner
M/s. Nike. 7. The goods were imported in the name of three companies- M/s.
B.S. Imports, M/s. Legend Creations and M/s. Personal Creations.
Statements of Ram Bilas Gupta - Authorized Representative of M/s
Personal Creations was recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act.
He categorically stated that they had not imported shoes and the
consignments covered by the aforesaid airway bills were not imported
by them. They were into business of exporting readymade garments.
Similarly, statement of Rajeev Kumar Chadha of M/s Legend Creations
Pvt. Ltd. was also recorded. He also said that they never imported the
shoes covered by the aforesaid airway bills. Statements of Balvinder

2 . Customs Act 6 C/52724 of 2019

Singh, Proprietor of M/s B.S. Imports statements were recorded under Section 108 . He confessed to have imported the shoes covered by six
airway bills which were filed in the name of B.S. Imports. He said that
he was aware that the goods were covered under IPR Act and that he
accepted his mistake of mis-declaration and undertook to pay duty and
penalty, as applicable. Subsequent investigations showed that in fact, all
the 15 consignments were imported by Balvinder Singh- six in the name
of his firm and rest in the names of M/s Legend Creations and M/s.
Personal Creations using their IEC without their knowledge. 8. Statement of Rajesh Mehta, Director of the appellant firm was
recorded wherein he inter-alia stated that he was well conversant with
the rules and procedures related to import and export; that he knew
that a case of mis-declaration had been booked; that his company had
filed Bills of Entry with the description of goods as „sample shoes‟
whereas on examination the consignment was found to be of
commercial quantity of shoes; and that he was shown the statement of
Balvinder Singh who had accepted having mis-declared the goods. He
further said that it was a case of mis-declaration on the part of importer
and that the Bills of Entry has been filed on the basis of the documents
provided by the shippers and submitted signed copies of Bills of Entry in
respect of the 15 airway bills pertaining to the case. 9. Further statement of Mehta was recorded on 10/03/2018 in which
he said that he would get copies of manifest, invoices and KYC by E-
mail. He disputed the statements of Rajeev Kumar Chadha of M/s
Legend Creations and Ram Kumar Gupta of Personal Creations that they
did not import the goods. On being asked about how he got the
necessary documents, such as, manifest, invoice and KYC to file the bills
of entry, he said that the KYC was handed over to him along with letter
of authorization by Balvinder Singh of M/s B.S. Imports and that he
received the invoice by E-mail. 10. In view of the above, an enquiry was conducted against the
appellant and the enquiry officer concluded that the appellant had
violated Regulation 12 (1) (v) . The portion relevant for this appeal reads
as follows :- 11. Therefore, a suspension cum show cause notice dated
29/11/2018 was issued to the appellant. The Adjudicating Authority
revoked the licence and forfeited the security deposit under Regulation
13(1) , and imposed a penalty of Rs. 50,000/- under Regulation 14 . 12. The Adjudicating Authority found that the Import Export Code3 of
M/s Legend Creations and M/s Personal Creations was being mis-utilized
by Balvinder Singh to import goods in their names. Instead of
confirming with the original IEC holders and obtaining their Know Your
Customer4 documents, authorization and other documents from them,
the appellant filed the declarations obtaining the documents from
Balvinder Singh who is not related to these firms. Therefore, the
Adjudicating Authority rejected the contention of the appellant that it
had obtained KYC documents in respect of all the imports as not
tenable. In this connection reliance was placed on the order of the
Tribunal in Baraskar Brothers vs. Commissioner of Customs
(General), Mumbai - 2009 (244) E.L.T. 562 that placed reliance on
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No. 2940 of 2008
filed by M/s K.M. Gantra & Co., defines the role of the responsibility of
Customs House Agent. The observation are as follows:- 13. The Adjudicating Authority further held that the authorized
courier being a key person between the customs officers and the

3 . IEC

4 . KYC
 8 C/52724 of 2019

importer/exporter has a very similar role to play to that of the CHA and
rejected the appellant‟s argument that they had obtained the KYC. 14. Aggrieved, the appellant filed this appeal under Section 129A of
the Customs Act. 15. It needs to be pointed out that as per Regulation 13(2) , the
appellant could have represented to the Chief Commissioner of
Customs, if aggrieved. However, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Section 129A has not been restricted with respect to these Regulations. 16. We, therefore, proceed to decide this appeal. 17. This appeal is filed on the following grounds: 18. Learned Counsel for the appellant made the following
submissions: (b) As a courier, they are not authorized to open and examine the
goods. Only the customs officers have the right to do so. Regulation
5(2)(v) specifically states "no person shall, except with the permission
of proper officer, open any package of imported goods"; (c) After opening and inspecting the goods and getting them further
examined by the brand owner M/s Nike, the customs officer came to the
conclusion that they were counterfeit goods. Balvinder Singh was the
person involved in these fraudulent imports and he has confessed to the
crime. Nothing in his statement or in the statement of the appellant or
of anyone else suggests that they were aware of the nature of the
goods; and (d) Regulation 12(1)(v) requires the appellant to "exercise due
diligence to ascertain the correctness and completeness of any
information which he submits to the proper officer with reference to any
work related to the clearance of imported goods or of export goods".
They had verified the KYC documents which were received, though
through Balvinder Singh, but under the cover of letters of the three
importer firms. They have verified the KYC documents. Thereafter,
when the invoices were received along with imported goods they have
filed bills of entry as per the invoices which were received. They had no
mechanism whatsoever of checking whether the invoices which were
received match with the imported goods or otherwise. This can only be
known when the imported consignments are opened, examined and
compared with the invoices. The appellant had no authority to do this;
only the proper officer could do that and he did. Therefore, there is no
evidence on record to show that the appellant has not exercised due
diligence to ascertain the correctness and completeness of the
information. (e) Learned Counsel relied on the following decisions:- Kolkata)
 10 C/52724 of 2019 ( iii) G.M. Enterprises versus Commissioner of Cus . (Export), Nhava Sheva - 2010 (262) E.L.T. 796 (Tri. - Mumbai) (iv) V. Esakia Pillai versus Commissioner of Customs,
 Chennai - 2001 (138) E.L.T. 802 (Tri. - Chennai) ( v) Adani Wilmar Ltd. versus Commissioner of Customs
 (Prev .), Jamnagar - 2015 (330) E.L.T. 549 (Tri. -
 Ahmd.) ( vi) Him Logistics Pvt. Ltd. versus Commissioner of
 Customs, New Delhi - 2016 (338) E.L.T. 725 (Tri. -
 Del.) ( vii) Commissioner of Customs versus Him Logistics Pvt . Ltd. - 2017 (348) E.L.T. 625 (Del.) ( viii) Perfect Cargo and Logistics versus Commissioner of
 Customs (Airport & General), New Delhi - Final order
 No. 51641 of 2020 dated December 17, 2020. 19. Learned Departmental Representative supported the impugned
order and asserted that the appellant had failed to exercise due
diligence in ascertaining the correctness and completeness of the
authorization handed over by the third party in respect of two importers
who were not related to him and thereby contravened Regulation
12(1)(v) of the Regulations. Mens rea is not required for suspension or
revocation of licence and imposition of penalty under the Regulations as
has been held in the following decisions: - 2016 (332) E.L.T. 15 (S.C.) ( ii) Millenium Express Cargo Pvt. Ltd. versus
 Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi - 2017 (346)
 E.L.T. 471 (Tri. - Del.) affirmed by High Court of Delhi -
 2017 (354) E.L.T. 467 (Del.) ( iii) Rubal Logistics Pvt. Ltd. versus Commissioner of
 Customs (General), New Delhi - 2019 (368) E.L.T.
 1006 (Tri. - Del.). 20. We have considered the arguments of both sides and have
perused the record. 21. The job of an authorized courier agent is somewhat similar to the
job of a customs broker. He is required to file declarations before the
customs officers in respect of all the consignments, which were
imported by him based on the documents. He has no authority to open
the consignment. Further he is also required to verify the identity of the
 11 C/52724 of 2019

importers through KYC documents. In other words, he needs to verify
whether the importer actually exists or otherwise which is part of the
due diligence process. In this case, the appellant received the KYC
documents of all the three alleged importers under the cover of their
letters but they were received through Balvinder Singh. Having received
the documents, the appellant verified the KYC documents and found the
importers to be genuine. There is no dispute that all the three importers
in whose name the imports were made exist. 22. The second set of documents which the appellant received is in
the form of invoices along with the consignments. These are received
from the overseas exporter. Based on these documents, the appellant
filed declarations with the customs. On investigation, customs officers
found that the shoes which were imported were counterfeit Nike shoes.
The fact that they were counterfeit was ascertained after an expert
evaluation by Nike Creations, the brand holder. It is inconceivable that
somebody could have, without opening the packages understood that
contents were counterfeit shoes. It would have been impossible for the
appellant or even the customs officers or even for the experts to
determine that the contents were counterfeit goods without opening the
packages. The appellant, as an authorized courier, is prohibited from
opening the packages. It would have been a difference case, if there
was sufficient evidence that the appellant was aware that the goods
were counterfeit shoes or if the appellant had a role to play in the
scheme to import them. 23. The only fault of the appellant is that instead of receiving the KYC
documents directly from the hands of the owners of M/s Legend
Creations and M/s. Personal Creations, it received the documents with
covering letters handed over by Balvinder Singh. In our considered
view, this action of the appellant does not constitute not exercising due
diligence to ascertain the correctness and completeness of any information
which he submitted to the proper officer with reference to any work related
to the clearance of imported goods as required under Regulation
12(1)(v) . Had the Customs officers waited for sometime before acting
on their intelligence, it would have become evident whether the
appellant was involved in the mis-declaration because, as courier, it
would have had to take the goods and deliver them to M/s. Legend
Creations and M/s. Personal Creations. If the appellant had, instead,
delivered the goods to Balvinder Singh or someone else, it would have
 12 C/52724 of 2019

proven their involvement in the mis-declaration. But from the facts of
this case, we find that: 24. We, therefore, find that the appellant has not violated Regulation
12(1)(v) and therefore, revocation of the registration and forfeiture of
security deposit under Regulation 13(1) and imposition of penalty under Regulation 14 cannot be sustained. 25. For these reasons, the impugned order dated May 22, 2014
cannot be sustained and needs to be set aside and is set aside. The
appeal is, accordingly, allowed with consequential relief, if any. (Order pronounced in open court on 25/05/2021)

 (JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA)
 PRESIDENT

 (P.V. SUBBA RAO)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

PK/SHREYA