Crl. Rev. No. 04/13 State V. Miraj Ahmed & Ors. Page ....1 of 5
 The State aggrieved by the order of discharge of the 

accused/respondents has filed the revision petition impugning it. 2. As per the allegations, an FIR was registered on 

07.01.2006 upon which a raid was conducted to detect the 

cloning of Garuda Mobile Phones/MTNL. Four respondents in 

this case were apprehended and found to be indulging in cloning 

of MTNL phones etc. Diary, registers, computer equipments etc 

were duly seized and the accused were arrested. The allegations 

were that the accused were making unlawful calls to South Arabia 

causing financial loss to MTNL by cloning the telephone 

numbers. Upon disclosure of the accused persons one other 

person, the fifth accused namely Prem Swaroop was also arrested 

with equipment and CDMA mobile phones used in cloning the 

SIMs of Mobile Phone. The charge sheet was filed against 

accused/respondents for the offence punishable under Section 

420 / 34 IPC. 3. The court of the Ld. ACMM, however, vide the 

impugned order discharged the accused persons. Ld. Addl .P.P 

for the State has argued that there is enough material on record 

which prima facie gives rise to grave suspicion against the 

Crl. Rev. No. 04/13 State V. Miraj Ahmed & Ors. Page ....2 of 5
 accused person and therefore the charge ought to have been 

framed against them. There was documentary evidence regarding 

high bills in respect of the cloned SIM/Mobile. Details of the loss 

incurred by the MTNL by the illegal acts of the accused was on 

the record. It is stated that meticulously examining or analyzing 

the material on record was not called for at this stage of framing 

of charge. As per the impugned order, the investigating team, 

accompanied by MTNL officials raided the house of the accused 

in village Junela where the four accused persons were found 

indulging in the cloning of mobile phones with the aid of 

instruments and computer equipment. The entire equipment was 

seized. At the time of raid, accused Miraj was found busy in 

cloning of mobile phone and remaining accused persons were 

facilitating in making calls to Saudi Arabia and other nations. On 

disclosure, accused Prem Swaroop was arrested and some 

equipment was also recovered from his premises. Recovery from 

the accused Aizazul Huq was in respect of the cloned phone 

number 20901567. Accused Arshad Ali was in possession of 

cloned number 20908355 and 20900466 and accused Malik 

Abbas was carrying one Nokia Mobile phone bearing number 

Crl. Rev. No. 04/13 State V. Miraj Ahmed & Ors. Page ....3 of 5
 9868067478. 4. I find merit in the arguments advanced by the Ld. 

Addl. P.P for the State that there is enough material on record to 

charge the accused at this stage. Allegations on record do give 

rise to suspicion, which at this stage is sufficient for framing the 

charge. The prosecution's case is that the respondents worked as 

a gang and therefore the provision of section 34 was added to the 

offence. 5. The revision therefore merits consideration. The 

impugned order is set aside and the accused are liable to be 

charged under Section 420 / 34 IPC. The case is, therefore, 

remanded back to the Ld. Trial Court to prosecute accordingly. 

The respondents are directed to appear before the trial court 

06.06.2014. 6. Copy of the order along with TCR be sent back. File 

be consigned to Record Room. Announced. (Ina Malhotra)
 District & Sessions Judge 
 South East, Saket Courts
 New Delhi 27.05.2014

Crl. Rev. No. 04/13 State V. Miraj Ahmed & Ors. Page ....4 of 5 Crl. Revision No. 04/13 Present : Ld. Addl. Public Prosecutor for the State 

 Counsel for the Respondents

 Vide separate order, the revision petition is allowed 

in terms thereof. Copy of order along with TCR be sent to the Ld. 

Trial Court. File be consigned to Record Room. (Ina Malhotra)
 District & Sessions Judge 
 South East, Saket Courts
 New Delhi 27.05.2014. Crl. Rev. No. 04/13 State V. Miraj Ahmed & Ors. Page ....5 of 5