(Per: Mr. D.K. Tyagi, Member): 2. Briefly stated the facts of the case, as mentioned in the consumer
complaint are that on 26.02.2011, the complainant purchased a single
premium policy for a sum of Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. from the opposite parties-
Insurance Company. Number of insurance policy was 20517776, which 2 was purchased through J & K Bank, Branch 56, Rajpur Road, Dehradun for
which the complainant had paid Rs. 3,00,000/- to the opposite parties.
Prior to purchase of the policy, the complainant had filled a form for single
premium policy, which was signed by the complainant. This form was
submitted by the complainant to the insurance company. Later on, the
opposite parties sent documents of policy to the complainant through
courier. The complainant is the Principal of Jaswant Modern Senior
Secondary School. During that period, there was board examination and
practical in the school, therefore, the complainant could not read the policy
documents and it was kept in safe custody. The opposite parties demanded
annual premium from the complainant, whereas she had purchased single
premium policy for an amount of Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. The complainant
enquired about the policy and came to know that the opposite parties had
changed the form of single premium policy to some other policy (regular
premium) and also signed over it by fraud. The complainant had never
signed over the document, which was sent by the opposite parties to the
complainant. She had never signed over this document. The complainant
had sent a mail to the opposite parties on 31.10.2012, which was received
by the opposite parties on 05.12.2012. The complainant had also written a
letter to the opposite parties for cancellation of policy and for refund of
premium amount, but the opposite parties had refused and turned down
prayer of the complainant on 19.01.2013. The opposite parties asked for
scan copy of complaint alongwith specimen signatures of the complainant,
for which the complainant sent copy of complaint alongwith form with her
real signatures to the opposite parties. Thereafter, the opposite parties sent
a letter dated 11.05.2013 to the complainant alongwith a cheque of
Rs. 2,827/- cheque No. 197003 dated 07.05.2013 of H.D.F.C. Bank as a
surplus amount. The complainant sent a legal notice dated 16.07.2013 to
the opposite parties through her counsel Ms. Manjushree Saklani,
Advocate, which was replied by the opposite parties on 09.08.2013 and
refused to return the money to the complainant. The complainant has
pleaded that a form of single premium policy was filled, which was signed 3 by the complainant and it was assured by the opposite parties for better
services, but later on the opposite parties had changed the single premium
policy form, which was signed by the complainant into some other policy
(regular premium) and signed over it by fraud, thereby causing deficiency
in services. Despite of complaint as well as signatures of complainant sent
to the opposite parties, the opposite parties did not enquire in the said
matter, therefore, committed deficiency in service. The opposite parties
have played fraud with the complainant, resulting financial loss of capital
amount of Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. and accrued interest and also complainant
suffered mental agony for which she has filed consumer complaint against
the opposite parties for a compensation of Rs. 1,00,000/-. 3. The opposite parties have filed written statement before the District
Forum and have pleaded that the contents of para No. 2 are denied to the
extent that the policy was not single premium. It is submitted that the
complainant after completely understanding the terms and conditions of the
product "Met Monthly Income Plan" had voluntarily applied for a policy
by voluntarily filling up proposal form bearing No. 167077327 dated
26.02.2011. The complainant offered to pay a Modal Premium
Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. (Rupees Two Lakhs Ninety Seven Thousand One
Hundred Seventy Two and Sixty Seven Paisa Only) annually towards the
premiums under the said plan for a proposed sum assured amounting to
Rs. 16,20,000/-. Upon receipt of the duly filled up proposal form
alongwith the initial premium of Rs. 2,97,172.67.ps., opposite party
evaluated and processed the proposal form on the basis of the information
provided by the complainant and issued policy bearing No. 20517776 on
29.03.2011 to the complainant for the premium paying term of 5 years. It is
submitted that the complainant has herself filled up the proposal form after
being aware of the policy terms and conditions. The policy was issued on
29.03.2011 and, thereafter, the policy documents were dispatched to the
complainant on 30.03.2011 through Blue Dart courier company. The
policy documents were delivered to the complainant on 01.04.2011. However, the complainant in spite of the receipt of the policy documents
has not raised any objections or complaints during the free-look period and,
hence, it was presumed that the contract of insurance which had with the
complainant was legally concluded. On 31.10.2012 an e-mail was received
from the complainant alleging mis-selling. The opposite party requested
the complainant to submit the duly signed complaint letter alongwith the
copy of signature specimen vide e-mail dated 05.11.2012. On 04.12.2012,
the opposite party received a duly signed letter alongwith the copy of
passport of complainant. On the basis of review, no signature mis-
matching was observed by the opposite party and since the complaint was
beyond free-look provisions of 15 days' the complaint was rejected. On
18.01.2012 an e-mail was received from the complainant stating that she
had not received any response for her complaint. The reply to that mail
was sent by the opposite party reiterating the same contents as stated in
mail dated 12.12.2012. On 21.03.2013, a letter was received from the
complainant alongwith dual signature format to change the signature. The
new signature was updated in the records of opposite party. On
10.04.2013, one more e-mail was received from the complainant alleging
mis-selling. However, the opposite party rejected the complaint on the
basis of above mentioned observation. It is submitted that the opposite
party has maintained complete transparency with respect to the life
insurance contract at all stages by disclosing all necessary information
about the contract and informing the same to the complainant. It is
submitted that before applying for the policy, the complainant was well
explained about the terms and conditions and then after this the
complainant voluntarily applied for the policy. There has been no breach
or deficiency of service by the opposite party. It is submitted that every
policy terms and conditions of the opposite party is approved by IRDA and
framed as per the regulations of IRDA. Further all the charges were
properly mentioned in the terms and conditions of the policy which was in
the knowledge of the complainant. The opposite party does not incur any
liability on the complainant for any sort of compensation, as there is no 5 unfair trade practice adopted by the opposite party. The complaint is not
maintainable, as the complainant in the present dispute does not comes
under the definition of 'consumer', as the complainant invested the money
for commercial purpose. The present policy in question is unit linked
policy and such policy is speculative in nature and the same is taken for
investment purpose. Therefore, the policy holders of such policies are not
consumers and disputes relating to such policies are not sustainable before
the Consumer Fora. The complainant has made misconceived and baseless
allegations of deficiency of services and mis-selling without any
documentary evidence in support of her allegations made in the complaint.
The consumer complaint does not fall within the definition of a 'consumer
dispute' under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 , as there is neither any
unfair trade practice adopted by the opposite party nor any deficiency in
service being established against the opposite party. As per Clause 6(2) of
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of
Policyholder's Interests) Regulations, 2002, 'While acting under regulation
6(1) in forwarding the policy to the insured, the insurer shall inform by
letter forwarding the policy that he has a period of 15 days from the date of
receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the
policy and where the insured disagrees to any of those terms and
conditions, he has the option to return the policy stating reasons for his
objections, when he shall be entitled to refund of the premium paid. The
similar free look provision has been incorporated by the opposite party in
Clause 6.1 of the terms and conditions of "Met Monthly Income Plan" plan
taken by the complainant which clearly states that, 'You have a period of
15 days from the date of receipt of the Policy document to review the terms
and conditions of this policy. If you have any objections to any of the
terms and conditions, you have the option to return the policy stating the
reasons for the objections and you shall be entitled to refund of the
premium paid subject to a deduction of the stamp duty charges. The
complainant after completely understanding the terms and conditions of
our product "Met Monthly Income Plan" had voluntarily applied for a 6 policy by voluntarily filling up proposal form bearing No. 167077327
dated 26.02.2011. The complainant offered to pay a modal premium of
Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. annually towards the premiums under the said plan for a
proposed sum assured amounting to Rs. 16,20,000/-. The complainant was
well aware of all the terms and conditions pertaining to the given policy. A
welcome letter clearly stated that in case the complainant was disagreed
with the terms and conditions of the policy, she should return the policy
within 15 days of the receipt of the same and was entitled for cancellation
available to the complainant pursuant to Clause 6.1 of the terms and
conditions of the policy. 4. The complainant has filed replication against the written statement
filed by the opposite parties and has pleaded that as the complainant was to
be retired soon, therefore, she purchased single premium policy to save her
future and for the livelihood. Therefore, she is the consumer within the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . The complainant had purchased single
premium policy for five years after a payment of Rs. 2,97,172.67ps., but
the opposite parties replaced and changed the form of complainant by fraud
into other policy of regular premium by putting signatures of the
complainant, resulting financial loss to the complainant. The act of the
opposite parties comes under unfair trade practice and also deficiency in
service. It was told to the complainant orally that it is a single premium
policy in which Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. to be given for five years and no other
premium shall be paid in future. This policy will matured after five years
and the complainant will get the benefit of the single premium policy. The
opposite parties did not provide any photocopy of the form filled and
signed by the complainant and this form was changed by the opposite
parties by fraud. As the complainant is the principal of school and there
was board examination and practical, therefore, when she got the policy
documents, she kept the document into safe custody and did not read the
same. The complainant came to know about the fraud of the opposite
parties, when the opposite parties demanded other premium from the 7 complainant. The complainant did not purchase Met Monthly Income Plan
from the opposite parties. The opposite parties also informed to the
complainant that Clause 6.1 and its terms and conditions and provisions of
free look period are not applicable in the matter of complainant. The
complainant never signed over declaration form Unit Linked Products and
Benefit Illustration form. The opposite parties have changed and replaced
the form over which the complainant had signed. The opposite parties
wanted to take money from the complainant forcibly, whereas she
purchased a single premium policy and signed over form for purchasing
such policy. There is no signatures of the complainant on the document
Annexure-I (Application Form / Proposal Form). It is admitted to the
complainant that the opposite parties had asked for a complaint letter
alongwith specimen signatures of the complainant, for which she sent the
same alongwith copy of passport. The opposite parties did not compare
and match the specimen signatures of the complainant by any hand writing
and finger print expert. The opposite parties have sent policy document,
which was fraudulently signed by them. The opposite parties have never
provided any terms and conditions regarding policy to the complainant.
They have also not apprised to the complainant about the free look period. 5. The District Forum, on an appreciation of the material on record,
dismissed the consumer complaint vide impugned order dated 19.08.2015
in the above terms. Aggrieved by the said order, the appellant-complainant
has filed the present appeal. 6. We have heard Ms. Manjushree Saklani, learned counsel for the
appellant and Ms. Neha Rawat, holding brief of Km. Puja Khanna, learned
counsel for respondents. We have gone through the entire record of the
District Forum and have also perused the material placed on record. None
appeared on behalf of respondents. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant has submitted before this
Commission that the District Forum has failed to appreciate that as per para
No. 6 of the affidavit of respondents dated 08.05.2014, an application was
moved by the appellant to the respondents dated 28.09.2012, in which the
appellant had demanded surplus money from the respondents, but the
respondents refused the request of the appellant-complainant, as signatures
of the appellant were mismatched and it is written in paper Nos. 13Kha/18
that the signature in the request form does not match with their records. If
the signatures of the appellant did not match with the signatures available
in the record of the respondents, then how did signatures on the proposal
form and documents 5Kha/1 to 5Kha/11 (on the District Forum's record)
and 13Kha/1 to 13Kha/17 are considered to be the real signatures of the
appellant. The District Forum has failed to appreciate the fact that
according to para No. 6 of the affidavit of respondents (paper
No. 13Kha/18 on the District Forum's record), the respondents received a
request letter dated 28.09.2012 from the appellant and found that signatures
of the appellant on the request letter was mis-matched. The respondents
have also stated that the signatures of the appellant on the document (paper
No. 13Kha/18 on the District Forum's record) not matched with their
records, even then the respondents did not take advice or expert report
regarding specimen signatures of the appellant sent to the respondents on
21.03.2013, which are available as paper No. 5Kha/15 to 5Kha/16 on the
District Forum's record. The District Forum has also failed to appreciate
the fact that there is no signature of appellant on several cuttings on the
proposal form. There are eight signatures of the appellant on the proposal
form, but there is no similarity in all these signatures. There is no signature
of appellant on the document (paper No. 13Kha/4 on the District Forum's
record), therefore, there is no question of any signature of witness. The
District Forum has failed to appreciate that the appellant did not want to
purchase single premium policy, because she is going to be retired very
soon and she could take benefit of the single premium policy after her
retirement. The District Forum has failed to appreciate that once 9 respondents have considered that signatures of the appellant are not
matched, even then on the other side, the respondents admitted the
signatures of the appellant, then to take the opinion of hand-writing expert. 8. There is no dispute with regard to the fact that the appellant applied
for the policy through J & K Bank, Branch Rajpur Road, Dehradun in the
respondents and presented a proposal form filled and signed by the
appellant. It is also undisputed that the appellant deposited and paid
Rs. 3.00lakhs for the same. It is to be seen whether the appellant had
applied for five years' single premium policy or for policy for regular
premium with the respondents. It is also to be seen whether original
proposal form filled and signed by the appellant was changed or replaced
by the respondents and changed form was signed by any other person by
fraud. It is also to be seen whether respondents had ever tried to match the
signatures of the appellant or in case of mis-matching of signatures, any
expert report of hand writing and finger print expert had been obtained by
the respondents. 9. In para No. 2 of the complaint, the appellant has categorically stated
that she had purchased single premium policy on 26.02.2011 through J & K
Bank, Branch Rajpur Road, Dehradun for which she had paid Rs.
3.00lakhs. Actual premium was of Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. and for that purpose
she filled a proposal form and signed over it, which was deposited in the
office of respondents and thereafter policy document was sent by the
respondents to the appellant through courier. But as the appellant is
Principal of Jaswant Modern Senior Secondary School, therefore, due to
busy in board examination and practical examinations, she could not read
the document of policy and kept the document in safe custody. Later on,
when the respondents demanded annual premium from the appellant, then
the appellant came to know that the respondents have changed and replaced
the proposal form and converted into other policy (regular premium) by
putting signatures of the appellant by fraud. The appellant has also filed a 10 replication against the written statement filed by the respondents and
further stated that she had purchased the single premium policy for
Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. for five years, which was fraudulently converted into
other policy (regular premium), which was signed by any other person by
fraud. In the complaint as well as replication, the appellant has
categorically stated that she is going to be retired very soon, therefore,
there was no occasion to purchase other policy (regular premium), rather in
these conditions, she purchased a single premium policy for
Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. for five years to save her future as well as for her
livelihood. We have gone through the application form / proposal form
(paper Nos. 5Kha/9 to 5Kha/11 on the District Forum's record) dated
26.02.2011, letter dated 31.10.2012 (paper No. 5Kha/12 on the District
Forum's record) sent by the appellant to the Manager Complaints, Metlife
of respondents. We have also gone through e-mail sent by the respondents
to the appellant (paper No. 5Kha/14 on the District Forum's record). We
have also gone through letter of the appellant to the Manager, Metlife,
Dehradun dated 21.03.2013 alongwith her specimen signatures (paper Nos.
5Kha/15 to 5Kha/16 on the District Forum's record). In the letter dated
31.10.2012, the appellant informed the Manager Complaints, Metlife
regarding mis-selling of the policy No. 20157776. In the letter, the
appellant has informed the manager complaints that she purchased a single
premium policy through J & K Bank, Dehradun Branch. She filled the
form and signed over it, but now she realized that the respondents totally
changed the form and the policy and filled the new form with another
policy with fake signature. When this year they again asked the premium,
she told them that she had applied for single premium, but they did not
listen to her and told her that if she will not pay the other premium, her
money will be forfeited. In the letter, the appellant has also stated that
respondents had given her mobile number and address in the form, which is
wrong. In the letter, she had also stated that she is at the verge of
retirement and she cannot pay any other premium and moreover she cannot
lose her hard earned money. In the letter, she has stated that it is totally 11 fraud and in case she did not get the reply within a week, she will be forced
to send this complaint to IRDA. Through e-mail, the respondents
requested the appellant to provide scan copy of the duly signed complaint
letter alongwith specimen signature and copy of PAN card, Driving
License / Passport / Bank Letter etc. for further investigation. The
appellant, therefore, sent a letter dated 21.03.2013 to the Manager, Metlife,
Dehradun in which she has stated that kindly update her signatures as
below. There was change in the signatures because in my policy, the
original form was exchanged by another form in which her signatures were
made by the agent, which were wrong. This is the reason that signatures
were not matching. Alongwith this letter, she had also sent her specimen
signatures. We have gone through these specimen signatures of the
appellant on duly signatures / change in signatures, request form (paper
No. 5Kha/16 on the District Forum's record) with the application / proposal
form (paper No. 5Kha/9 on the District Forum's record) and also signatures
on letter dated 31.10.2012 (paper No. 5Kha/12 on the District Forum's
record). From the naked eye, it is clear cut difference between the
signatures of the appellant on request form as well as specimen signatures
of the appellant and signatures on the application form. There are several
interpolation and cuttings over the application form / proposal form, where
signatures of the appellant were made, but the hand writing as well as
signatures on the application form are totally different. It is also
noteworthy that there are cutting on date of birth, name of nominee,
amount of single premium and amount of modal premium etc. These
cuttings are signed by some other person, whose signatures were never
matched with the signatures of the appellant. In the replication, the
appellant has categorically stated that the respondents have never provided
any terms and conditions regarding policy to the appellant and they have
also not apprised to the appellant about the free look period. 10. We have gone through the impugned judgment and order passed by
the District Forum, Dehradun. The District Forum has placed reliance on 12 the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Oriental Insurance
Co. Ltd. vs. Samayanallur Primary Agricultural Co-op. Bank ; AIR
2000 SC 10. In the said judgment , the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that
the insurance policy has to be construed having reference only to the
stipulations contained in it and no artificial farfetched meaning could be
given to the words appearing in it. Again the District Forum has also
discussed citation Polymat India P. Ltd. and Anr. vs. National
Insurance Co. Ltd. and Ors. ; AIR 2005 SC 286. In the said case the
Hon'ble Apex Court has held that the terms of the contract have to be
construed strictly without altering the nature of the contract as it may affect
the interest of parties adversely. We have convinced with the citations
discussed by lower Fora, but in the instant case, there is allegations of
appellant against the respondents that the appellant had never applied for
regular annual premium policy, rather she applied for single premium
policy as she was going to be retired soon and she has alleged in the
consumer complaint that the proposal form / application form filled and
signed by the appellant had been totally changed, converted and replaced
by the respondents by fraud. In the consumer complaint as well as in the
replication and affidavit filed in evidence by the appellant, the appellant
has categorically stated that no terms and conditions have been supplied to
the appellant and she was not apprised by the respondents regarding free
look period. So far replacement of proposal form and signatures of the
appellant on the proposal form is concerned, we are not convinced with the
findings given by the District Forum that signatures on the proposal form
and signatures on consumer complaint are same as seen by naked eyes.
From the perusal of the record, we are of the view that the signatures
available on the proposal form / application form (paper Nos. 13Kha/1 to
13Kha/3 on the District Forum's record) and signature on customer
declaration (paper No. 13Kha/4 on the District Forum's record) are totally
different from the signatures of the appellant on consumer complaint as
well as specimen signatures (paper No. 13Kha/20 on the District Forum's
record) and signature of appellant on request form (paper No. 13Kha/19 on 13 the District Forum's record). In this way, we are of the view that the
District Forum has not properly appreciated the documents filed in the
record. Moreover, when the appellant asked for surplus payment from the
respondents, they have also admitted that the signatures of the appellant are
mis-matched in the records available and also demanded xerox copy of
request letter alongwith specimen signatures, which were provided by the
appellant to the respondents. Therefore, respondents have committed
unfair trade practice and deficiency in service with the appellant, who is the
customer as well as consumer of the respondents. 11. In these circumstances, we are of the view that the District Forum
has not properly considered all the facts and circumstances of the case and
has erred in passing the impugned judgment and order, which is not legally
tenable and liable to be set aside. Consequently, appeal deserves to be
allowed. 12. For the reasons aforesaid, appeal is allowed. Impugned judgment and
order dated 19.08.2015 passed by the District Forum, Dehradun is set aside
and the consumer complaint No. 389 of 2013 is allowed. Respondents are
directed to pay Rs. 2,97,172.67ps. to the appellant within one month from
the date of order alongwith interest @ 6% per annum on the said amount
from the date of deposit of money. No order as to costs.