The Plaintiff has instituted the present suit against the
 Defendant for recovery of an amount of Rs. 2,44,571/-
 alongwith interest. 2. Plaintiff is a company incorporated and registered under
 the provision of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 , having
 its office at the address mentioned herein above in the
 memo of parties and engaged inter-alia in the business that
 deals in courier and delivery services that has
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 3. Sh. Anshul Mahindru, Director of the Plaintiff Company
 was duly authorized to sign, file, verify and institute the
 present suit on behalf of the Plaintiff. Thereafter, Sh.
 Darpan Lamba has been substituted as authorized
 representative to prosecute the present matter. 4. Pleaded case of the Plaintiff is that Defendant is a
 proprietor of the shop namely Janta Studio which deals in
 gifting and decorative items having relatively good web
 presence and its office at the address mentioned herein
 above in the memo of parties being his residential address
 as well. It is averred that the Defendant has been
 impleaded as party to the present suit as the right to sue
 arises in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant
 from series of same acts and transactions. 5. It is stated that on 12.02.2021, the Defendant himself
 contacted the Plaintiff Company from an online
 advertisement being done by the Plaintiff Company on
 various portals for the expansion of the business. A follow
 up email was sent by the Plaintiff Company thereby
 explaining the Defendant about the services provided by
 the Plaintiff Company and the rates charged against those
 services. A proposal was also shared for the courier/
 delivery services on e-mail which is part of the present
 plaint. The Defendant unequivocally accepted all the terms
 SHUBHAM
 DEVADIYA
CS No. 1343/22 PINKCONNECT EXPRESS PVT. LTD. VS. SIMRANJEET SINGH Page 2 of 15 Digitally signed by
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 Date: 2024.09.21
 16:04:57 +0530
 and conditions of the contract being present on the website
 of the Plaintiff Company and placed the first order through
 the website only. 6. Thereafter, on 17.02.2021, the Plaintiff Company asked the
 Defendant to share the identification documents in order to
 complete the KYC process and requested to fill and accept
 the Merchant's Agreement via e-mail. The Defendant
 unequivocally accepted the terms and conditions of the
 Merchant's Agreement but for some reason did not share
 the documents for the KYC. 7. It is averred that at the beginning, the Defendant showed
 interest in becoming a postpaid customer of the Plaintiff
 Company but after going through the norms of the
 company which made it exclusively mandatory for the
 postpaid customers to submit their documents and get the
 KYC done, the Defendant on the very next day i.e.
 13.02.2021 started working as a Prepaid customer, the
 Plaintiff Company did not emphasis on him to submit the
 documents and get his KYC completed. The Plaintiff
 Company was unaware of the malafide intentions of the
 Defendant for which he did not share the said documents
 but as it was not mandatory, the Plaintiff Company had not
 doubts on the intention of the Defendant. 8. Further, on 23.02.2021, a follow up mail was sent to the
 Defendant for the requisite documents but to no avail. It is
 submitted that Defendant started working from 12.02.2021
 Digitally
 and the transactions in question were covered in the signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 9. Thereafter, the Plaintiff Company telephonically informed
 the Defendant about the weight difference that had been
 foregoing since the very first order he placed with the
 Plaintiff Company. A statutory warning was given to the
 Defendant that if he continued doing the default then the
 services provided by the Plaintiff Company would be
 revoked and not only this, but his account might also be
 suspended. The Defendant apologized for the same and
 assured the Plaintiff Company that he would not commit
 the default again and the he would clear the balance of the
 weight discrepancy very soon. That on assurances given by
 the Defendant himself the Plaintiff Company did not take
 any step and continued working with the Defendant. 10. Furthermore, on 31.03.2021, the Plaintiff Company
 received an invoice from the vendor i.e. Delhivery and it
 came to the knowledge of the Plaintiff Company that the
 Defendant is still under default of the weight difference
 and has still not cared to clear the balance of the weight
 difference being defaulted by him. That the Plaintiff
 Company failed to understand that even after categorically
 explaining everything to the Defendant, he is still under
 default. Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 11. It is further averred that on 01.04.2021, the Plaintiff
 Company telephonically again informed the Defendant that
 he is still under default of the weight discrepancy and he
 was also informed that as promised by him he still has not
 cleared the balance amount for the same default till date.
 The Defendant categorically admitted that he has been
 facing some difficulty in understanding the nomenclature
 of the Plaintiff Company and that is why he was under 12. It is further averred by the plaintiff that the vendor i.e.
 Delhivery had a 15 days invoicing system whereas the
 Plaintiff Company decided to opt for a 30 day invoicing
 system for the customers from the 01.04.2021 onwards.
 Therefore, the information regarding the weight
 discrepancy was decided to be provided to the customers
 within 45-60 days and it was duly conveyed to the
 Defendant in the above-mentioned mail along with other
 updated Terms and Conditions. That on the 15.04.2021,
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 13. That the Plaintiff company asked the Defendant to clear
 the discounted bill of discrepancy but was presented with
 the undying excuses and lies of the Defendant of being in
 financial crises in order to buy some more time to pay the
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 14. Thereafter on 14.07.2021, the Plaintiff Company again
 contacted the Defendant in order to discuss the issue of
 weight discrepancy as the amount of the difference had
 reached Rs. 1,59,020/- till the month of June 2021 without
 the rebate but the Defendant, in order to avoid the concern,
 promised to call back but never reverted. The Defendant
 also did not respond to the calls made the very next day as
 well as on 21.07.2021. 15. Further, on 22.07.2021, an e-mail was sent to the
 Defendant as well as on the Whatsapp number stating the
 amount of difference due to weight discrepancy discussed
 and rebated in the month of June 2021 in an invoice along
 with the complete summary of the transactions planning to
 settle one bill at a time. It also included a 7 days deadline
 to rectify the issue but even after the lapse of 7 days the
 Defendant never came forward to solve the problem of
 weight discrepancy. 16. That on 31.07.2021 after multiple attempts and warnings
 when the Defendant did not come forward to co-operate in
 a friendly and professional manner, his account was
 blocked and his app wallet was suspended. The Defendant
 was informed about the same via whatsapp. Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 17. Thereafter, on 05.08.2021, a legal notice was sent to the
 Defendant in order to recover the rebated bill of Rs.
 62,020/- along with a fine of late bill payment amounting
 to Rs. 80,000/-. The said notice was duly received by the
 Defendant. 18. That the Defendant after receiving the above mentioned
 notice again requested for a rebate on the whole
 outstanding amount including the month of June 2021
 amounting Rs. 1,59,020/- and ensured the Plaintiff
 Company that he will pay the amount in one go showing a
 win-win situation for both the parties. The Plaintiff
 Company in order to get rid of the bad debts agreed on to
 negotiate and settle the issue. It was settled on Rs.
 1,00,853/-. 19. That on 21.08.2021, an email was sent to the Defendant
 demanding the negotiated amount along with the next
 invoice for the month of July 2021 amounting Rs.
 38,833/-. 20. Thereafter, the Defendant stopped attending the calls made
 by the Plaintiff Company and also stopped replying to the
 mails. He also denied payment of the outstanding bills
 claiming the bills to be faulty. He also mentioned that he
 felt harassed upon being contacted for bill payments by the
 Plaintiff company. He threatened the Plaintiff company to
 file false cases against it if the Plaintiff company asked for
 the outstanding amount. In September 2021, the Plaintiff
 Company again asked for a final stance or decision of the
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 21. Thereafter, in December 2021, after a complete evaluation,
 new invoice with GST was prepared for the transactions
 made from February 2021 to July 2021 and the total
 weight discrepancy amount was calculated to be Rs.
 1,97,853/- without any rebate or discount which was to be
 paid by the Defendant in order to avoid any dispute. The
 Defendant was duly informed, and he promised to call
 back but never reverted. He also did not respond to the
 calls made to him on different occasions till date. 22. That the conduct of the Defendant made it very clear that
 he was aware of the whole difference and discrepancy
 from the very first day and has done it deliberately having
 malicious intentions. Defendant defrauded the Plaintiff
 Company one more time by making another account on
 07.08.2021 in the name of Ravinder Kaur, mother of the
 Defendant just after the Plaintiff Company froze the wallet
 of the Defendant and suspended services for his account.
 The Defendant again used the services provided by the
 Plaintiff and with malafide intentions further created
 weight difference once again. That weight difference made
 the Plaintiff incur a loss of Rs. 6,718/-. Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: Then on 12.05.2022, Mr. Hemant Mahindru, Senior
 Financial Advisor of the Plaintiff Company visited Jaipur
 from Delhi in order to settle the dispute and recover the
 debts. On which the Defendant, regardless of the fact of
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: Despite service, Defendant failed to contest the present Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: Anshul Mahindru. 30. Thereafter, ex-parte plaintiff's evidence was led. 31. To prove its case, plaintiff examined its AR as PW-1 as the
 sole witness who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit
 Ex.PW1/A and relied upon the following documents: - Ex. PW1/12 Legal notice dated 12.05.2022. Ex. PW1/13 Postal receipt. Ex. PW1/13A Tracking report of speed post. Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 32. Since none appeared for the defendant when the plaintiff
 was to be examined, the evidence was recorded ex-parte.
 Thereafter, plaintiff closed its ex-parte evidence on
 09.04.2024, and the matter was posted for ex-parte final
 arguments. 33. During the course of final arguments, the Ld. counsel for
 plaintiff relied on the aforesaid exhibited documents and
 the unrebutted deposition of PW1 to pray for a decree for
 the amount of Rs. 2,44,571/- alongwith interest @ 24% per
 annum in the plaint as even written statement was not filed
 by the defendant. 34. Heard the ex-parte final arguments advanced by counsel
 for plaintiff. This court has carefully perused the evidence
 on record in light of the pleadings of the plaintiff and
 considered the oral submissions of Ld. counsel for
 plaintiff. 35. To prove its case, the plaintiff has placed reliance upon
 invoices exhibited as Ex.PW1/8(Colly.), stating that
 amount in the said invoices has only been partly paid and
 an amount of Rs. 2,44,571/- is due to the plaintiff. The
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 36. Since the suit amount was not received despite service of
 summons, it stands established that such an amount
 remained wholly unpaid. There is nothing on record to
 disbelieve the version of the plaintiff. Reference can be
 placed upon the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
 in M/s Eco Lab I.MC.N Vs. Eco Labs Limited, 2011 (185)
 DLT 664, wherein it was held that if defendant has failed
 to cross examine the plaintiff, the evidence of plaintiff is to
 be presumed to be correct. In view of the fact that the
 version of the plaintiff has remained unrebutted, whatever
 he has produced on record is accepted as correct. 37. Plaintiff has also relied on legal notice dated 12.05.2022
 along-with postal receipts is deemed to be proved from the
 accompanying postal receipts and tracking report. The
 contents of the legal notice can be deemed to be admitted
 by the defendant. Reliance in this regard can be placed
 upon judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHUBHAM
 SHUBHAM DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 38. In view of the foregoing reasons, it stands established on
 preponderance of probabilities that a sum of Rs. 2,44,571/-
 was due. 39. The plaintiff, having incurred expenses in pursuing the
 present litigation, is also entitled to the costs of the suit. Relief 40. In view of the foregoing reasons, the present suit is decreed
 in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant. The
 plaintiff is held entitled to recover from the defendant a
 sum of Rs. 2,44,571/- along-with interest @ 24% from the
 date of institution of the suit till the date of realization of
 the principal amount. 41. Costs of the suit is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff. 42. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly accordingly. 43. File be consigned to Record-Room after due compliance. Digitally signed by
 SHUBHAM SHUBHAM
 DEVADIYA
 DEVADIYA Date: 2024.09.21
 16:06:04 +0530

 Pronounced in the open (Shubham Devadiya)
 Court on 21.09.2024 Civil Judge-03, South East,
 Saket Court, New Delhi. 21.09.2024 CS No. 1343/22 PINKCONNECT EXPRESS PVT. LTD. VS. SIMRANJEET SINGH Page 15 of 15