Heard learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned Additional Government Advocate for the State of U.P. and perused the record. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant seeking bail in Case Crime No.19 of 2021, under Sections 420 of IPC & 66 D of IT Act, Police Station- Cyber Crime, District- Jhansi. As per the prosecution story, First Information Report has been lodged by the complainant alleging that by way of forgery, Rs.1,51,142/- has been withdrawn from his account and further loan of Rs.9,00,000/- has also been taken from his account. Learned counsel for the applicant contends that applicants have been falsely implicated in the instant case due to ulterior motive. It is alleged that during course of investigation, the investigating officer, on the basis of evidence available on record, confirmed that it was the applicant who called the complainant by Mobile No.8972250517 and asked him to share the OTP, by which, the fraud has committed. It is submitted that the applicant has not committed any fraud and also there is no public or independent witness to proved the alleged incident. It is submitted that there is no specific allegation against the applicant in the FIR as the same has been lodged against unknown persons. It is further submitted that nothing has been recovered from the possession of the applicant and also there is no public or independent witness of the alleged recovery as has been shown from the possession of the applicant. It is also submitted that there is no apprehension that after being released on bail, the applicant may flee from the course of law or may, otherwise, misuse the liberty of bail. It is further submitted that the applicant is languishing in jail since 15.09.2022 and the possibility of conclusion of trial in near future is very bleak. Learned A.G.A. has vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of bail, but he has not disputed the above contention made by the learned counsel for the applicant. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, perusing the record and also considering the nature of allegations, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties, without expressing any opinion on the merit of the case, I find it to be a fit case for granting bail. Let applicant- Pramod Kumar Mandal be released on bail in the aforesaid case on his furnishing personal bond and two reliable sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions:- Any violation of above conditions will be treated misuse of bail and learned Court below will be at liberty to pass appropriate order in the matter regarding cancellation of bail. Order Date :- 28.11.2022
 
SK Goswami