This is first application filed by the applicant under Section 483 of BNSS
 for grant of regular bail in relation to Crime No.102/2025 registered at Police
 Station - Economic Offences Wing, Bhopal (M.P.) for the offences punishable
 under Sections 120-B , 409 , 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of the IPC and 66-D of the
 IT Act. The applicant is in custody since 01.07.2025. 2. According to the story of prosecution as enunciated in the FIR dated
 21.06.2025, the genesis of the case is a complaint submitted by one Pratap Singh
 Lodhi, an agriculturist and resident of Village Dhaneta, Tehsil Patan, District

 Jabalpur. The complainant alleged that he was in need of a loan and approached
 co-accused N.K. Khare alias Vinod Kumar Sahay, who induced him by stating
 that only a small loan could be availed on agricultural land, but a larger loan could
 be secured if he formed a proprietorship firm and obtained GST registration in the
 name of the said firm. Acting on this inducement and false assurance, the
 complainant registered a firm in the name of Maa Narmada Traders for which
 documents such as Aadhaar, PAN, bank statements, land records and loan books Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 2 MCRC-49369-2025
 were handed over to the co-accused. It is further alleged that without the
 complainant's consent, the co-accused got registered an email ID [email protected] in the GST records and also registered the complainant's
 son's mobile number for GSTOTP verifications. That subsequently, GST
 Registration No.23ALLPL1056B1ZM was issued in the name of Maa Narmada
 Traders. However, the complainant never carried out any business through the
 said registration. Later, when GST authorities visited the complainant, he was
 informed that tax dues to the tune of Rs 72,66,408/- were outstanding against the
 said firm. This came as a shock to the complainant, as bogus transactions of crores
 of rupees had been shown in the name of Maa Narmada Traders without his
 knowledge or involvement. It is further stated that, co-accused N.K. Khare and
 Satyam Soni had fraudulently filed GST returns in respect of Maa Narmada

 Traders by misusing OTPs and documents of the complainant. Further probe
 disclosed that apart from Maa Narmada Traders, several other bogus firms were
 floated, namely Namami Traders, Maa Rewa Traders, and Abhijeet Traders, all
 allegedly used to generate fake GST returns and fraudulent transactions. It is
 further stated that, through these bogus firms, the accused persons, including the
 present applicant, carried out fictitious transactions in collusion with various
 entities, such as K.D. Sales Corporation, Dilip Traders, Ankita Steel & Maa
 Jagdamba Coal Carriers, Mahak Enterprises, Koraj Technic, Mahamaya Traders,
 Ambar Coal Depot, and Anam Traders. Forged documents were used to support
 these fraudulent GST returns, causing a wrongful loss of approximately Rs 33.80
 Crores to the State exchequer. 3. Learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that various High
 Courts have considered the matter pertaining to Section 132 of the GST Act and Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 3 MCRC-49369-2025
 have held that if the amount involved is more than Rs.5 Crores then maximum
 punishment prescribed is five years and there is no embargo under the GST Act
 for consideration of application for grant of bail. It is contended that
 considering the chain of events and considering the fact that GST authority have
 also resorted for offences punishable under the IPC , such practice adopted by the
 GST authorities is not approved by various High Courts and even some of the
 complaints have been quashed. 4. It is put forth that in the case of Akram Pasha v. Senior Intelligence
 Officer (Crl. Pet. No.15066/2025, High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru), the
 facts of that case are almost identical to the facts of the present case and
 considering the nature of allegation that the applicant has taken wrong benefit of
 Input Tax Credit, the case of the applicant is required to be considered. 5. In support of his submissions, counsel for the applicant has placed
 reliance on the decisions in the cases of Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Government of
 NCT of Delhi , (2017) 2 SCC 18; Deepak Singhal v. Union of India , WP
 No.21641/2024 ; Sushil Kumar Singla v. State of UT Chandigarh, CRM - M
 28701/2023 (O & M); Shalini Singhal v. State of MP , (M.Cr.C. No.5759/2024
 decided on 09.02.2024). By referring to these decisions, it is contended that the
 applicant should be released on bail keeping in view his custody period as GST is
 itself a self contained Code and necessary procedure shall be followed as per that
 Code itself. 6. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has opposed
 the contentions raised by the counsel for the applicant and by referring to Section
 131 of the GST Act submits that offences are serious in nature. It is also

 contended that investigation in the matter is going on in respect of co-accused
 persons and further interrogation may reveal many more scam and fraud which Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 4 MCRC-49369-2025
 might have been committed by the present applicant and other co-accused
 persons. It is further contended that figure of such fraudulent amount may increase
 with further interrogation. It is vehemently urged that provisions of GST Act
 generates asset for the nation and these activities carried out by the persons like
 the present applicant jeopardize the national interest on that count also the Court
 should take a serious view in such matters and should not exercise discretion in
 favour of the applicant especially looking to the fact that prima facie case is made
 out against the applicant. 7. I have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for
 the parties at the Bar. 8. It is relevant to note that various High Courts as well as the Apex
 Court have considered similar types of matters in favour of the applicants therein.
 In this context it is appropriate to refer to certain relevant decisions in the field: 9. Indore Bench of this Court in the case of Deepak Singhal (supra) has
 held in paragraphs 9 and 10 as follows: 10. In view of the above, this court has no hesitation in holding
 that GST Authorities cannot bypass procedure prescribed under GST
 Act for launching prosecution by simply invoking penal provisions
 under IPC without invoking penal provisions under GST Act especially
 when the allegations so revealed as a result of search and seizure
 conducted by GST Authorities constituted offence covered under the
 penal provisions of GST Act as that would amount to bypassing
 procedural safeguards as provided under Section 132(6) of GST Act
 which requires sanction of the commissioner prior to initiation of
 prosecution, which is to the prejudice of the petitioner herein. Letting
 GST Authorities to adopt such course of action would amount to abuse
 of process of law which cannot be permitted by this court." 10. In this context it is apposite to refer to the judgment of High Court
 of Karntataka in the case Akram Pasha (supra) on which heavy reliance is placed
 by counsel for the applicant. In paragraphs 18 to 20 of the said judgment, High
 Court of Karnataka has held thus: charge of a police station. 70. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce
 documents.-(1) The proper officer under this Act shall have power to
 summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary either to Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 9 MCRC-49369-2025

 give evidence or to produce a document or any other thing in any
 inquiry in the same manner, as provided in the case of a civil court
 under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908." 19. Chapter XIV of the CGST Act deals with inspection, search,
 seizure and arrest. It consists of sections 67 to 72 . Section 70 deals with
 power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents.
 As per sub-section (1), the proper officer under the CGST Act has the
 power to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary
 either to give evidence or to produce a document or any other thing in
 any enquiry in the same manner as provided in the case of a civil court
 under the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908. Thus, section
 70 (1) confers the power on the proper officer to summon any person
 whose attendance he considers necessary to either tender evidence or to
 produce documents, etc., in any enquiry. Exercise of such a power is
 similar to the powers exercised by a civil court under the Civil
 Procedure Code, 1908. Sub-section (2) further clarifies that every
 inquiry in which summons are issued for tendering evidence or for
 production of documents is to be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
 within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code, 1860. 20. There is no embargo under the CGST Act restraining the
 petitioner from seeking pre-arrest bail. Economic offences such as tax
 evasion, money laundering, etc., affect the economy of the country and
 thus are considered grave in nature. To deter persons from indulging in
 such economic offences, criminal sanctions are required to be imposed.
 One of the most prominent criminal sanctions imposed with regard to Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 10 MCRC-49369-2025
 economic offences is that of arrest. It is widely acknowledged that
 arrests result in deprivation of liberty of a person. Thus, while it is
 imperative to maintain law and order in society, the power to arrest
 must also always be subject to necessary safeguards. Against this
 backdrop, analysing the arrest provisions under the goods and services
 tax law, with a view to study the adequacy of the safeguards and
 authorisation built into the text of the statute, the interplay between
 these provisions and the standards of arrest has to be established
 through judicial precedents, as well as other sources such as the
 Constitution of India and general statutes such as the Code of Criminal
 Procedure ." 11. In Sushil Kumar Singla (supra) in paragraphs 18 to 21 it has been
 held as under: 12 MCRC-49369-2025
 a complaint the Magistrate was not competent to frame charges against
 the respondent and in view of the special mechanism contained in the
 C.A. Act for prosecution of a person violating Sections 24 , 24A and 26 of the Act, he cannot be prosecuted under the IPC . When the matter
 finally came to the Supreme Court, wherein after considering a catena
 of judgments, it was held as under:- 13 MCRC-49369-2025

 constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Trade Tax Act, 1995 before
 whom the respondent is alleged to have acted on the basis of power of
 attorney or as legal representative or produced audit report do not fall
 within the ambit of the term "court" as defined in Section 195(3) CrPC.
 Such officer/authorities were neither discharging the functions of a
 civil, revenue or criminal court nor could they be treated as tribunal
 constituted by or under the Central or State Act, which is declared to be
 a court for the purpose of Section 195." In case of Sharat Babu Digumarti vs. Govt. Of NCT of Delhi AIR 2017 SC 150 the facts were different. It is the case in which the
 Magistrate had taken cognizance against the Director of a company for
 offences punishable under Sections 292 and 294 of IPC and Section 67 of IT Act It was in such background, the Supreme Court was of the
 view that Section 67 read with Section 67A and 678 of the IT Act were
 a complete code and for the sune set of allegations, the provisions of Section 292 of IPC cannot be invoked. (21) A close reading of the above cited case laws would lead to
 only the conclusion that the offence alleged against the petitioner is one
 punishable under the UTGST Ac/ CGST Act , which are the special
 statutes and are a complete code in itself and in view of the special
 mechanism contained in Chapter XIX of the CGST Act which clearly
 provides for offences and penalties, for prosecution of a person
 violating 122 & 132 of the Act, the petitioner cannot be prosecuted
 under the general provisions of IPC especially in view of the facts that
 in the FIR itself it has been stated that the resort has already been taken Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 14 MCRC-49369-2025
 for recovery of the tax by assessing tax and imposing interest and
 penalty thereon. Since as per the mechanism under the GST legislations
 has been pressed into aid, continuation of the proceedings under the
 general penal provisions of IPC and subject the petitioner to face trial
 thereunder would amount to double jeopardy under Article 20(2) of the
 Constitution of India. Furthermore, there is non-compliance of
 mandatory provision of Section 132(6) of the CGST Act as no previous
 sanction of the Commissioner has been taken." 12. Indore Bench of this High Court in the case of Shalini Singhal
 (supra) after considering the following submissions of the parties in paragraphs 4
 and 5, in paragraph 6 held that custodial interrogation is not required. The
 aforesaid paragraphs reads as follows: 13. In the case at hand, there is no doubt that the offence is essentially
 punishable under Section 132 of the GST Act but there are provisions of CGST
 Act, 2017 which can be considered as complete Code itself. Section 132 of the
 Act reads as under: *
 * (l) attempts to commit, or abets the commission of any of the
 offences mentioned in [clauses (a) to (f) and clauses (h) and (i)] of this
 section, shall be punishable-- (i) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of
 input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund
 wrongly taken exceeds five hundred lakh rupees, with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine; (ii) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of
 input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund
 wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees but does not
 exceed five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which
 may extend to three years and with fine; (iii) in the case of [an offence specified in clause (b), where the
 amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed
 or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds one hundred
 lakh rupees but does not exceed two hundred lakh rupees, with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and with fine; (iv) in cases where he commits or abets the commission of an
 offence specified in clause (f) ***, he shall be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine
 or with both. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 18 MCRC-49369-2025

 (2) Where any person convicted of an offence under this section
 is again convicted of an offence under this section, then, he shall be
 punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence
 with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with
 fine. (3) The imprisonment referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of
 sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, in the absence of special and
 adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of
 the Court, be for a term not less than six months. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
 Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), all offences under this Act, except the
 offences referred to in sub-section (5) shall be non-cognizable
 and bailable. (5) The offences specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c)
 or clause (d) of sub-section (1) and punishable under clause (i) of that
 sub-section shall be cognizable and non-bailable. (6) A person shall not be prosecuted for any offence under this
 section except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner. Explanation -- For the purposes of this section, the term "tax"
 shall include the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit
 wrongly availed or utilised or refund wrongly taken under the
 provisions of this Act, the State Goods and Services Tax Act, the
 Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act or the Union Territory Goods
 and Services Tax Act and cess levied under the Goods and Services Tax
 (Compensation to States) Act ." NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 19 MCRC-49369-2025 14. The applicant is an accused of wrongful utilisation of input tax
 credit. Considering the allegation in the FIR that a total sum of about Rs.10 Crores
 is involved and if the alleged amount is more than Rs.5 Crores, then maximum
 sentence which can be awarded, is five years. There is also provision under Section 138 of the Act which provides for compounding of offences before or
 after prosecution. Therefore, possibility of compounding can also not be ruled out.
 Today this Court has granted anticipatory bail to co-accused Dheeraj Gupta in
 M.Cr.C. No.40741/2025. The present applicant is in custody since 01.07.2025 and
 further detaining of the applicant will adversely affect the business of the
 applicant. Accordingly, this Court is inclined to allow this application under
 Section 483 of the BNSS ( Section 439 of the Cr.P.C) and release the applicant on
 bail. 15. It is directed that applicant be released on bail on his furnishing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lacs only) with two
 solvent sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court, for his
 regular appearance before the trial Court during trial with a condition that he shall
 remain present before the concerned Court on all the dates fixed by it during trial.
 He shall abide by all the conditions enumerated under Section 480(3) of BNSS. In
 addition to the above, the applicant shall also comply with the following
 conditions: NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-JBP:4147

 20 MCRC-49369-2025 (v) He shall surrender his passport before the investigating
 officer/apprehending authority and under no circumstances leave India without
 prior permission of the Court and, if he does not possess any passport, he shall file
 an affidavit to that effect before the concerned trial Court. It is being made clear that in case of bail jump and in violation of any of
 conditions imposed herein above, this order shall become ineffective and
 Investigation Officer/Trial Court shall be at liberty to proceed against the
 applicant as per law. 16. Accordingly, the M.Cr.C. is allowed and disposed of. Certified copy as per rules. (SANDEEP N. BHATT)
 JUDGE

 ks Signature Not Verified Signed by: KOUSHALENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA Signing time: 16-01-2026 16:55:52