1. This Cyber Appeal no. 26/2019, under Section 57(1) of Information

 Technology Act, 2000, has been filed by appellant, M/S Amos

 Corporation (A division of Amos Enterprises), 403@637 Gulbai Tekra,

 Panchvati Second Line, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, against Union

 Bank of India, and Nine others, respondents, against order, dated

 15.11.2018, passed by Adjudicating Officer, Gujarat/Secretary,

 Department of Science and Technology, in a Special Civil Complaint

 No. 56, which was filed before Adjudicator, for compensation of

 Rs.4,26,000/-, plus 24% per annum interest, for failure to protect

 sensitive personal information, provisioned under Section 43A of IT

 Act, out of which only Rs. 2,34,771/-, was granted in favour of

 appellant. Being aggrieved by this order of awarding

 less/inadequate/inappropriate compensation by Adjudicating Officer,

 Gujarat, present appeal, within the jurisdiction of this Tribunal, under Section 57 (1) of Information Technology Act, 2000, (hereinafter

 referred to as IT Act ) has been filed, within stipulated period of

 limitation. (The delay in filing the appeal was condoned by this

 Tribunal, vide its order dated 31.1.2020.) 3 2. In brief, the memo of appeal contends that the complainant, M/s

 Amos Corporation, a Division of Amos Enterprises Ltd, a public limited

 company, was operating it's current account no.393301010011121,

 with Union Bank of India, in its branch Vastrapur, Ahmadabad,

 respondent no.1, for its engaged business of trading in chemicals, inks

 and technical grade fertilizers. Complainant, appellant had availed net

 banking facilities on its current account, and being a public limited

 company, it was used by complainant-Chairman, as well as some

 Directors of the company. Mobile no. 9824032110, of service provider

 Idea Cellular, subsequently, Vodafone Idea Limited, respondent no.4,

 was registered mobile number, in above banking facility of

 complainant, appellant. In the morning of January 13, 2014, at around

 10:30 AM, complainant's above mobile phone went out of service,

 and it was not able to make or receive any calls. As a routine practice

 in the company, when the accountant was reviewing the said bank

 account at about 2.15 PM, in afternoon on 13 January 2014, he

 observed that 8 debit transactions, amounting Rs.14,26,000/-, have

 occurred, for which beneficiaries were not known to him. Accountant

 sought clarification about the said 8 transactions, with the

 complainant - Chairman, and it was also not in the knowledge of 4 Chairman-Complainant about the beneficiaries of those 8

 transactions. 3. Instantly, matter was reported to bank to debit/freeze/stop the

 account, to avoid further fraudulent transactions. As a result of

 vigilance of complainant, as well as of bank officers, only Rs. 5 lakhs

 could be retrieved on the same day, followed by retrieval of Rs 5 lakhs

 in a couple of days, subsequently. The total amount, without any

 authority, was transferred in many accounts, including Account of Mr

 Arvind Verma online, holding account no. 100026081914, with

 Indusind Bank, Chhindwara Branch. Respondent nos. 3 and 5, Rs. 4

 lakhs transferred to Mr Manoj Kumar, respondent no.10, holding

 account no. 250008080808, with Indusind Bank, Vashi Branch.

 Respondent no.3 and 6, Rs 1 lakh to Mr Sameer Singh respondent

 no.8, holding account no. 50100014354557, with HDFC Bank,

 Chhindwara, Respondent nos. 2 and 7. Amount Rs.1,26,000/-. Out of

 total amount of Rs 14,26,000/-, only Rs 10 lakhs could be withhold.

 Balance Rs.4,26,000/-, could not be reverted back from the account of

 above said respondents. After preliminary investigation, it was

 revealed that mobile services of the complainant, provided by service

 provider, respondent no.4, were stopped on fateful day at around 5 10:30 AM, without complainant's application to the respondent no.4.

 Rather one of his dealer received an application by name of Mr Sanjay

 Sindhi, so called HR Head of company, and got verified copy of Pan

 Card of Mr Sanjay Sindhi, a duplicate SIM card was got issued from

 respondent no.4, by blocking the SIM card of Mr Samir Patel,

 Chairman, Amos Corporation. By way of getting this changed SIM card

 on the basis of fraudulent documents, fraudster got this money

 siphoned and transferred to above beneficiaries. The adding of those

 new beneficiaries were without observing the cooling period required

 of addition of new beneficiary to the account of company, and it was

 not only by way of lack of due diligence on part of respondent no.1

 bank. Rather under connivance and fraud. Even no communication by

 E-mail, with regard to adding of new beneficiaries, was made by them.

 It was an apparent lack of reasonable security practices, to be

 observed by bank. 4. A police complaint was got lodged and this complaint for

 compensation, was filed before learned Adjudicator, Gujarat on

 10.1.2017. Adjudicator heard and passed impugned order that

 amount lying the account of Sameer Singh Rs.34,771/-, be transferred

 to complainant's account. A reimbursement of Rs.1,50,000/- to 6 complainant, along with penalty of Rs.50,000/-, in one month is to

 made by Indusind Bank, for failure of adhering to its policies, as well as

 its security practices. The Idea Cellular was directed to pay the amount

 of Rs.50,000/- to complainant, within one month for the failure of

 being diligent with KYC requirements. Hence, this Appeal by

 complainant with this assail that responsibility for damages was also

 on respondent nos. 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7. There was no application of mind,

 while assessing the evaluation of complainant. The compensation

 granted against respondent no.1, was also with no appreciation of

 facts placed by appellant. There was no compensation with regard to

 loss of business suffered by complainant. The cognizance of

 negligence played by respondent no.4, in issuing of duplicate SIM

 card, which was the main cause of siphoning, was also not taken into

 consideration. The compensation for failure in data protection was

 not properly evaluated, and was not just as per provisions of Section

 43A of IT Act. 5. The responsibility of Indusind Bank, held by Adjudicator, for not

 following due diligence in imparting banking services, was with an

 order of penalty, in the tune of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs).

 But, this Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs), were not in consonance 7 with the loss suffered by Appellant. The proper KYC verification of

 accounts were not carried out by the Respondent, Indusind Bank, in

 opening those accounts, by use of which, siphoning was there.

 Appellant has not only suffered Rs. 4,26,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Two

 Six Thousand only), through his bank account, but he has in reality,

 suffered huge business loss, due to non attention towards his business

 activities, by activities of Respondent. Hence, Adjudicating Officer

 failed to quantify these business losses. Hence, this appeal with above

 prayers. 6. Learned Counsel for Indusind Bank, who is Appellant in the CA No.

 10/2019 and Respondent No. 1 in present appeal, had argued its case.

 Rest of the Respondents, have not availed opportunity of arguing for

 them. The argument advanced by Learned Counsel for Indusind Bank

 was the same, which was for Appellant of CA No. 10/2019, and as this

 Tribunal had decided for disposal of above CA No. 10/2019, and

 present Cyber Appeal No. 26/2019, being a cross appeal for the same,

 against the same impugned order of Adjudicating Officer, though the

 CA No. 10/2019, was dismissed in default, and there was a direction

 for moving appropriate application for its restoration, but on a

 subsequent date, this Tribunal vide order dated 29.03.2023, held for 8 disposal of Miscellaneous Application, along with CA No. 26/2019 and

 on the next date, held that C.A No. 10/2019, could be got heard, along

 with CA. No. 26/2019. 7. Under above pretext, both of these appeals were heard together and

 are being decided together. 8. CA No. 10/2019, was filed by Indusind Bank Ltd., against M/s Amos

 Corporation and two to eight other Respondents, under Section 14 ,

 read Section 14A of TRAI Act, 1997, read with Section 57 of

 Information Technology Act, 2000, against the Judgment/Order dated

 15.11.2018, passed by the Adjudicating Officer, Gujarat, Secretary,

 Information Technology, State of Gujarat, impugned assailed order in

 CA No. 26/2019, whereby Learned Adjudicating Officer passed an

 order directing the Appellant Indusind Bank Ltd., to pay and amount

 of Rs. 1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Fifty Thousand only), along with a

 penalty, amount of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only), in one

 month's time, to complainant Respondent No. 1. 9. Appellant was Respondent Nos. 3, 5 and 6, before Adjudicating Officer

 in above Civil Complaint. Whereas, present Respondent No. 1 was the

 Complainant-Petitioner with a contention of being a Public Limited

 Company, incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act 9 1956, being M/s Amos Corporation, a division of Amos Enterprise Ltd.,

having its current Account No. *****11121, with Union Bank of India,

Respondent No. 2, with its branch office, located at Vastrapur,

Ahmedabad. A Net banking facility of its service was being provided

by Union Bank of India to above complainant. This account, being a

current account, was used on daily basis by Respondent No. 1, in

relation to the commercial transactions, being carried out by

complainant, who was engaged in trading business in chemicals, inks

and technical grade fertilizers. The user name and its password, was

kept secret by bank and the complainant. The Respondent No. 1 i.e.,

M/s Amos Corporation with Accountant, Mr Alpesh Kumar Shah, were

under knowledge of their username and password for use of said Net

banking facility. These alleged 8 (Eight) transactions and thereby

transfer of Rs. 14,26,000/- (Rupees Fourteen Lakhs Twenty Six

Thousand only), from the account of complainant, with no alert or

messages on mobile number, registered with bank was there. The

details were given in the memo of Appeal, and upon information,

instant action, by bank, was taken, whereby Rs. 10,000,00 (Rupees

Ten Lakhs only), could be retrieved, and Rs. 4,26,000/- (Rupees Four

Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand only) could not be retrieved. 10 10.The mobile service, which was non-effective in above period of

 transaction, could be retrieved, about late evening of 13.01.2014,

 pursuant to representative of Respondent No. 1, and it was an Act of

 Telecom Service provider, being Idea Cellular Pvt. Ltd., Respondent

 No. 4, which revealed that some unauthorized person, had made

 forged application, for the change of SIM card, in the morning of

 13.01.2014, for the registered mobile number, resulting above

 number being out of service, on that day. For the purpose of such

 insurance claim to succeed, the Bank's Insurance Company had sought

 for the copy of account statement and KYC document of said Mr.

 Arvind Verma, Mr Manoj Kumar and Mr Sameer Singh, with a copy of

 FIR, to enable the said Insurance Company to process the claim. The

 bank informed Respondent No. 1, that the bank had requested the

 HDFC Bank Ltd., Chhindwara, as well as Appellant Bank, Indusind Bank

 Ltd., Chhindwara, to share with them the aforesaid documents, so as

 to enable the bank to process the said insurance claim, and it was said

 by the bank, Union Bank of India, that both of HDFC Bank, as well as

 Indusind Bank, have not shared such documents, resulting non

 processing of insurance. 11.A complaint was filed under, Section 43A , of Information Technology

 Act, 2000, to the office of Adjudicating Officer/ Secretary, Information

 Technology, Government of Gujarat, wherein, a prayer was for

 ordering the Union Bank of India, Respondent No. 2, HDFC Bank,

 Respondent No. 3, Indusind Bank Respondent No. 3, before the

 Adjudicating Officer, appellant before present forum, as well as Idea

 Cellular Ltd., Respondent No. 4, hereinafter, jointly or severely, paying

 damages of Rs. 4,26,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand

 only), along with interest at the rate of 24% per annum, to the

 Petitioner. During the proceeding before Adjudicating Officer,

 evidences were led by way of affidavit. Appellant bank had denied the

 allegations levelled against it. After hearing both side, the impugned

 order, dated 15.11.2018, was passed. 12.This was without application of judicial mind, and Principle of Natural

 Justice. It's an order based on mechanical interpretation. The

 guidelines, laid down by the Reserve Bank of India, were also not got

 observed. There was a mandate of NBFC, that account holder shall not

 share his or her internet banking password, with anyone in any

 manner whatsoever. Whereas, in the present matter in hand,

 Respondent No. 1 had shared his password with his Accountant and 12 the same is admitted by him in his complaint, which is against the

 guidelines of RBI. This fact was ignored by Adjudicating Officer. There

 was no Privity of Contract, in between, Appellant bank and

 Complainant or its bank Union Bank of India. Even then, responsibility

 has been fastened. Hence, this appeal with above prayer. 13. The arguments advanced by Learned Counsel for both side were the

 same, as were written in Memo of Appeal, and the reply of both of

 this appeals, are with the same contention, which are the contention

 of Memo of Appeal, by respective Appellants. Hence, not to repeat

 the same, is in the favour of brevity of judgment. 14.The Adjudicating Officer, in Civil Complaint No. 56/2018, had narrated

 the facts, which are undisputed in the memo, the evidences led before

 the Adjudicating Officer, and the analysis made by Adjudicating

 Officer, with a conclusion of passing of impugned order, whereby

 HDFC Bank, Chhidwara Branch Manager, was directed to return Rs.

 34,771/- (Rupees Thirty Four Thousand Seven Hundred Seventy One

 only), in account of Mr Sameer Sudesh Singh to the Petitioner in 15

 days, and for failure in adhering to their own policy in relation to daily

 withdrawals, Indusind Bank allowed excess withdrawal beyond the set

 limit of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) and Rs.1,000,00/- 13 (Rupees One lakhs only), i.e., a total of Rs.1,50,000 (Rupees One Lakhs

 Fifty Thousand only), which could have been saved to the Petitioner, if

 Indusind Bank had followed its policy. Accordingly, there was a

 direction for reimbursement to the Petitioner, of an amount of

 Rs.1,50,000 (Rupees One Lakhs Fifty Thousand only), along with

 penalty amount of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only), in one

 month's time. 15.The service provider, Idea Cellular, failed in its diligence, required with

 KYC requirements, in issuing the duplicate SIM, and that's why it was

 directed to make payment of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand

 only) to the Petitioner in one month's time, and this appeal is there.

 The Cross Appeal by service provider, M/s Idea Cellular is not there.

 The appeal is by only Indusind Bank, wherein, Learned Counsel

 appearing for bank, categorically admitted that there was a limit of

 making payment in one stroke, for not more than Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees

 Fifty Thousand only) whereas, this payment of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees

 Fifty Thousand only) and Rs.1,000,00/- (Rupees One lakhs only) were

 permitted to be made. That's why the provision specifying the limit for

 withdrawal in one stroke and it's non-obeying by bank and its officer,

 being not disputed, is very well there. Hence, that much amount, 14 which could have been saved, but could not be saved, because of this

 failure to due diligence by bank officer of Indusind Bank, was directed

 to be paid with a penalty of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only)

 more. Meaning thereby, the Adjudicating Officer had based its order,

 on the basis of evidence placed before it, as well as the facts

 categorically admitted before it. 16.The other aspect is there that the keeping user name and password

 profile saved and not disclosed to anyone, is the duty of person,

 enjoying Internet banking facility, and when asked for, Learned

 Counsel for Appellant of CA No. 26/2019, categorically admitted that

 this was not there by complainant. Hence, for it, complainant was not

 awarded complete Rs. 4,26,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Twenty Six

 Thousand only). Rather only that much amount was directed to be

 paid, which was direct loss by indiligence of bank, Indusind Bank, as

 well as penalty of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only), by service

 provider, Idea Cellular, who is not appellant or had not assailed the

 Impugned order. Hence, this Tribunal is with this limited point in the

 appeal filed by Indusind Bank only. Hence, for Indusind Bank, there is

 very well, evidence of defiance made by it, and the penalty awarded is

 in consonance with the loss suffered for this negligence of bank officer 15 of Indusind Bank. Hence, there is no illegality or irregularity, in

 impugned order, requiring this Tribunal's intervention. Cyber Appeal

 No. 10/2019 merits its dismissal. 17.So far as Appeal No.26/2019 is concerned, Amos Corporation was

 vigilant in instantly reporting the matter to its bank. After coming to

 know the alleged fraudulent transaction, and upon its vigilance, its

 bank, Union Bank of India, took instant action, whereby, Rs.

 10,000,00/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs only), could be retrieved. The only

 amount, Rs. 4,26,000/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand only),

 could not be retrieved, because of the disbursement made by

 Indusind Bank. Hence, the siphoned money was instantly recovered by

 the bank concerned, by its legitimate and instant action. 18.The disclosing of password and username to an Accountant, by the

 Officer of Company was there. The KYC submitted for getting second

 SIM, was held to be with irregularity, for which service provider was

 directed to make payment as a penalty. But, the default, on the part

 of complainant, was also held by Adjudicating Officer, and when asked

 from the Learned Counsel for Appellant, before this Tribunal, he fairly

 admitted this fact that those details were neither pleaded with regard

 to business loss, nor were proved before Adjudicating Officer. Hence, 16 it was fairly admitted by Learned Shri Mahendra B. Limaye, before the

 Tribunal, that he foregoes his claim in this subsequent Appeal. 19.Under above pretext and admission made by Learned Counsel for

 Appellant, this appeal CA. No. 26/2019 also merits its dismissal. 20.In both of these Appeals, the perusal of record reveals that ordered

 amount has already been deposited at the time of filing of this appeal.

 Hence, nothing remains to be deposited in these appeals, except with

 liberty to complainant to get those amount refunded, if already not

 refunded back. 21.With above observations, both of these appeals, CA No. 10/2019 and

 CA. No.26/2019, are being dismissed. No order for costs. 22.Let a copy of this judgment and order, be kept in both Cyber Appeals

 separately. ....................... (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
7.2.2025
/NC/