1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 09.07.2022 seeking the following
information: (ii) Bank mandate of account holders are secret and the same are known by 2, one
 bank as well as account holders. Then bank must explain how our bank account's
 position went in to the hands of intruders, who found out the credit position of
 our account etc. So please take up these issues to find out the fault in the systems.. 2. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 12.08.2022 and the same is reproduced as under 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 22.08.2022 alleging that the information provided was incomplete, false and
misleading. The FAA vide order dated 22.09.2022 upheld the reply given by the CPIO. 4. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 05.01.2023. 5. The appellant and on behalf of the respondent Mr. Jacob E Joseph, AGM, attended
the hearing through video conference. 6. The appellant inter alia submitted that he had sought details of OTPs received from
the bank w.r.t a fraud case. He stated the reply furnished by the respondent was not in
accordance with the information sought in the RTI application. He requested the
Commission to direct the respondent to furnish the information, as sought. 7. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that a response to
the RTI application had already been furnished vide their letter dated 12.08.2022. He
further submitted that the information sought was related to a fraud case and all available
information regarding the same had been provided to the appellant. Hence, no further
information remained to be provided to the appellant, he said. 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observed that the RTI application was replied by the
CPIO vide letter dated 12.08.2022. Perusal of the records further revealed that the appellant
had grievance with regard to alleged fraudulent transactions which could be raised before
an appropriate forum. This forum may not be treated as grievance redressal forum. That
being so and the reply having been given, there appears to be no public interest in further
prolonging the matter. With this observation, the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- Col S S Chhikara (Retd) (कन ल एस एस िछकारा, ( रटायड ))
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: