This petition has been filed under Section 482 Cr.P.C for quashing

and setting aside of order dated 20.01.2022, Annexure P-1 as well as order

dated 07.02.2022 (Annexure P-2) passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate Ist

Class, Pathankot, in CRM-560/2021 titled as State of Punjab through

Balwinder Singh Vs. Unknown, whereby the Supardari application filed by

respondent no.2-complainant and victim in FIR No.68 dated 20.05.2021, under Section 420 IPC and Section 66D of the IT Act, 200, Police Station, Sadar,

District Pathankot, for release of Rs.3,00,000/- from the bank account of the

petitioner has been allowed and the Magistrate has directed respondent no.3 to

transfer a sum of Rs.3,00,000/- from the account of the petitioners to the

account of respondent no.2. Learned counsel inter alia contends that the order in question is

illegal and not sustainable in the eyes of law. He submits that the petitioner is a

business company which facilitates banking transactions through its network to

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 01-05-2022 17:55:07 ::: CRM-M-13018-2022 2 sub-contractors which includes various shopkeepers and retailers. The

petitioner claims to enable retailers with the mobile and web application to

conduct banking transactions such as cash deposits to bank accounts, Aadhar

based cash withdrawal from bank accounts, cash collections for online

merchants like Swiggy, Flipcart etc. It is contended that the sales team of the

petitioner appoints distributors to identify and help the retailers run their

business by creation of a virtual account (Wallet). It is submitted that the

respective sales team collected the KYC documents from interested and

prospective distributors. Physical verification of the same is done and thereafter

the user gets activated on the platform. It is contended that respondent no.2

complained about a fraudulent activity upon him, as a result whereof, an

amount of Rs.3,00,000/- was deducted from his account and was transferred to

the account of the petitioner company. He submits that the amount so received by the platform has been

subsequently disbursed by the petitioner. Learned counsel for the petitioner has however not disputed the

factum that the amount in question was debited from the account of respondent

no.2 and credited to the account of the petitioner. He has also not been able to

show any entitlement of the petitioner company to retain such money. An

argument has however been raised by learned counsel for the petitioner that the

amount in question has been appropriated by the retailer. However, no such

documentary evidence has been appended along with the petition to

substantiate the said submission. The complainant has shown his Bank account

statement reflecting movement of money to support his claim. The mere

appropriation of the amount by the Company does not entitle the petitioner to

claim an immunity. Once, the petitioner company is not able to show any

entitlement to the amount received in its credit, the right of the petitioner does

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 01-05-2022 17:55:07 ::: CRM-M-13018-2022 3 not get crystallized to retain the same. The petitioner company would at best be

at liberty to claim the money from the retailers to whom such funds have been

forwarded. Learned counsel also could not point out to any material to show

that the appropriation of the amount was on the instructions of the victim. Even otherwise, the web-based platform is the creation of the

petitioner and they are responsible to ensure that the platform is not infiltrated

to the prejudice of the users. The maintenance of safety features is an obligation

of the petitioner and the same is an integral part of the user charges/fee claimed

by the company from its users. Once, the company promotes the digital

payments through its platform and portrays it as a safe and secure means of

transaction of money, it would not be open to the petitioner company to claim

an immunity for itself and refuse to indemnify or protect users of its platform

against fraud committed against them by any unauthorized access of the

platform. The entitlement of the victim to his money not being disputed and

the petitioner having failed to display its entitlement to retain the said money,

the impugned orders passed by the Courts below directing a refund of the

money to the victim that stood wrongly credited to the account of the petitioner

cannot be held to be bad or liable to be set aside. I find no illegality or infirmity

in the orders passed by the learned Courts below. The instant petition is thus dismissed as devoid of any merit.