1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that an 'organized
crime syndicate' was being run by accused Neeraj Sehrawat @
Neeraj Bawania @ Neetu (A2), along with his brother Pankaj
Sehrawat (A1) and maternal uncle Rambeer Shokeen (A10)
which indulged in extortion of money, extending threats for the
purposes of extortion of money and land grabbing and was also
involved in inflicting crimes/ offences including bodily injuries
and murder to gain pecuniary benefits in the form of money or
land or gaining undue economic and other advantage. Further,
accused Rahul Dabas @ Kala (A8) and Naveen Dabas @ Bali @
Chhota @ Time Pass (A4) also got associated with the said
'organized crime syndicate'. It is alleged that all the said accused
persons along with others, namely Amit Malik @ Bhura (A9),
Sunil Rathi (A3) and Naveen Hooda @ Bhanja (A5) had engaged
themselves as members of the crime syndicate and were doing

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.3 of 385
 continuing unlawful activities in the form of organized crime i.e.
extortion from wealthy persons of money and land grabbing. 2. It is further the case of the prosecution that prior to
20.02.2015 and in a period of ten years prior thereto, in Delhi and
other places in the country, the accused Rambeer Shokeen
harbored, concealed and organized concealment of Neeraj
Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawana by directing one Jasbir @ Goldy to
accompany him to Kolkata where he concealed himself under a
false identity by using Voter ID card of one Prashant Kaushik and
stayed in Hotel Raj Palace, Kolkata using fake identity of
Prashant Kaushik on the basis of manipulated Voter ID card of
the said Prashant Kaushik, which he obtained under false pretext.
The user of Voter ID card of Prashant Kaushik facilitated the stay
and concealment of accused Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawana
at various other hotels such as Hotel Jai Mahal, Hotel Savera,
Udaipur and Hotel Juhu Residency, Mumbai. Further, accused
Rambeer Shokeen provided accused Neeraj Sehrawat, kingpin of
crime syndicate an HDFC debit card of one Jasbir @ Goldy
which he had obtained from Jasbir @ Goldy and had deposited
money in the said account of Jasbir @ Goldy which was used by
the kingpin of the syndicate, namely, Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj
Bawana. Further, the accused Rambeer Shokeen received money
from the crime syndicate in cash on various occasions and
facilitated the encashment of cheques to the tune of Rs.15 lakhs
for the crime syndicate through one Rakesh Jatav and for that
purpose, had also instructed the concerned bank manager to
release/ encash the said cheques which amount was also handed

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.4 of 385
 over to accused Rambeer Shokeen by accused Pankaj Sehrawat.
Further, accused Pankaj Sehrawat held money and property
derived/ obtained from the commission of organized crime or
which had been acquired through organized crime syndicate.
Accused Rambeer Shokeen was found singly or jointly in
possession of movable property as mentioned in the charge-sheet,
which he could not satisfactorily account for and which was
obtained/ acquired from out of the proceeds of organized crime
committed by organized crime syndicate. 3. Once it came into knowledge that an organized crime
syndicate was being run, a proposal under Section 23(1) of the
Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999 (hereinafter
referred to as the MCOC Act ) as extended to Delhi was moved
against the aforesaid accused persons by ACP Manishi Chandra.
Approval was accorded by the Special Commissioner of Police
for registration of FIR and investigation of the case under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act vide order dated 20.02.2015
(Ex.PW73/A) against seven accused persons i.e. A1, A2, A3, A4,
A5, A8 and A9. The present FIR bearing No.10/15 PS Special
Cell was thereafter got registered. During investigation, accused
Gurpreet Singh and Naveen Hooda were also found involved as
members of the organized crime syndicate and involved in
organized crime. So, after investigation, a request was made by
the Additional DCP Manishi Chandra to grant sanction under Section 23(2) of MCOC Act to proceed against 10 accused
persons and sanction was accorded against 10 accused persons by
the Special Commissioner of Police for offences punishable

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.5 of 385
 under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act vide sanction order dated
09.09.2015 (Ex.PW73/B). Further sanction against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was accorded on 10.02.2017 for the offence
under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act (Ex.PW67/A). 4. After completion of investigation and obtaining sanction,
charge sheet was filed on which cognizance was taken by my Ld.
Predecessor vide order dated 10.09.2015 for the offences under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act. Supplementary charge sheets
were also filed. Accused Rambeer Shokeen was initially declared
proclaimed offender vide order dated 23.02.2019 of the Ld. ASJ-
03, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi. Vide order dated
28.10.2016, accused Sunil Rathi, Amit Malik @ Bhura, Naveen
Hooda @ Bhanja Vicky, Deepak Dabas @ Deepa and Gurpreet
Singh were discharged and charge was directed to be framed
against the other accused persons which was framed vide order
dated 22.11.2016 against the accused Rahul Dabas @ Kala,
Naveen Dabas @ Bali, Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawana @
Neetu and Pankaj Sehrawat for the offences punishable under Section 3 of Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999.
Subsequently, vide order dated 02.03.2021, accused Rambeer
Shokeen was charged for the offences punishable under Sections
3(2) / 3(3) / 3(5) / 4 of MCOC Act and under Section 174A IPC. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 5. Prosecution in support of its case examined 78 witnesses.
PW1 Ms. Priya Mitra Kaushik, Retd. ACP deposed that on
26.05.2014, she issued an order regarding award of Rs.1 lakh for

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.6 of 385
 giving information/ clue to trace out the highly desperate
criminal Neeraj Bawania @ Neeraj S/o Shri Prem Singh, r/o
house No.848, Panna Mauzan, PS Bawana, Delhi, who was
involved in case FIR No.180/2012 dated 28.02.2014, under Sections 387 / 506 IPC, PS Samaypur Badli, Delhi, and evading
from his arrest. He was also involved in sixteen other cases. The
said order was passed on the directions of the Commissioner of
Police. She proved the original order dated 26.05.2014
Ex.PW1/A. 6. PW2 Shri Sandeep Kumar Sehrawat deposed that he
had one uncle (Tau) Baljeet Singh and two uncles (Chacha),
namely, Hari Singh and Prem Singh. His uncle Prem Singh had
two sons and one daughter and the sons are named Pankaj
Sehrawat and Neeraj Sehrawat whom he identified. He denied
having knowledge about the profession of accused Pankaj and
Neeraj Sehrawat. He deposed that there are three maternal uncles
(Mamas) of Pankaj and Neeraj, namely, Jagdev Shokeen, Sanjeev
Shokeen and Rambeer Shokeen. He denied having any
knowledge about the case. He denied that he ever went to any
person at the instance of accused Neeraj and Pankaj. The Ld.
Addl. PP sought permission to cross-examine the witness as he
was stated to be not telling the truth. During cross-examination
by Ld. Addl. PP, PW2 stated that he did not know if the accused
Pankaj and Neeraj were involved in many criminal cases in Delhi
and Haryana. He stated that police officials of Special Cell had
made inquiries from him in this case and his statement was
recorded. He did not know if accused Neeraj and Pankaj along

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.7 of 385
 with their accomplices had indulged in land grabbing in Delhi.
He denied having knowledge if accused Neeraj and Pankaj used
to extort money from factory owners and businessmen of
Bawana area or if accused Neeraj and Pankaj used to give ill
gotten money to their maternal uncle Rambeer Shokeen who was
residing in Kamruddin Nagar and was ex-MLA from Mundka
Legislative Assembly or they used to spend the said illegal
money in his elections. 7. PW2 further denied the suggestion that in January, 2013
when accused Neeraj was in Tihar Jail, his brother Pankaj
Sehrawat and Rakesh Babla, son of his maternal aunt (Mausi)
told him about a plot measuring 600 sq. yds. situated at Khasra
No.38/24, Village Shahbad Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi or that
the said plot was in the name of his maternal uncle (mausa) Shri
Narain Singh or that someone had taken forcible possession of
the plot or that Rakesh Babla had taken the possession of the said
plot after putting bricks in the plot or that the owner of the said
plot was threatened by them by taking the name of accused
Neeraj Bawana, who got scared and agreed to compromise the
matter or that his brother Sushil Sehrawat was also involved in
the settlement and he had told him about the same. He further
denied the suggestion that he had received Rs.1.10 crores cash
and three cheques for Rs.8 lakhs, Rs.7 lakhs and Rs.5 lakhs in the
name of Rakesh from the mediator/ property dealer Rajesh
Bansal or that he had handed over all the three cheques to
accused Pankaj and at the instruction of accused Neeraj Bawana,
he went to Kamruddin Nagar and handed over Rs.1.10 crores

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.8 of 385
 cash to his maternal uncle accused Rambeer Shokeen for
elections. 8. PW2 further denied the suggestion that in January, 2015,
on the instructions of accused Neeraj, he received Rs.2.50 lakhs
as extortion money from one Kamaldeep Dabas @ Monu,
resident of Barwala. He denied the suggestion that he had
disclosed all the said facts to the police in his statement and he
was confronted with the statement Ex.PW2/A wherein it was so
recorded. He did not know the source of income of accused
Neeraj and Pankaj or how their family members were meeting
their daily expenses in their absence and volunteered he was not
on visiting terms with the family of accused Neeraj and Pankaj.
He stated that he was involved in only one criminal case and
volunteered that he was acquitted in the said case. He was never
arrested in any criminal case. He denied the suggestion that he
was deliberately suppressing the true facts of the case as he was
afraid of accused Neeraj and Pankaj as they are dreaded
criminals and as he had been won over by the family members of
accused Neeraj and Pankaj being closely related to them. During
cross-examination, he admitted that the police had threatened to
implicate him in the present case and that out of fear, he had
given statement to the police and that there was no threat to him
for making the statement which he had made in the Court on that
day. 9. PW2, when recalled for examination after the
apprehension of accused Rambeer Shokeen, deposed that he
knew the accused Neeraj Sehrawat and Pankaj Sehrawat being

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.9 of 385
 his first cousins. He denied having knowledge about their
profession, business or employment. He deposed that Sushil
Sehrawat is his real elder brother. He stated that in the year 2013,
he had never mediated with regard to any property and accused
Neeraj had never made any phone call to him with regard to
either purchase or sale of a property. He never had any money
dealing either with or on behalf of or on the instructions of the
accused Neeraj or his brother Pankaj. He was cross-examined by
the Ld. Addl. PP for State as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement and similar suggestions were put to him as
when he was examined in respect of the other accused persons
and he denied the same. He was not cross-examined on behalf of
the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given. 10. PW3 Shri Anil Kumar, UDC, Office of Electoral
Registration Officer, Assembly Constituency-8, Mundka deposed
that as per record, on 23.06.2015, a letter from Manishi Chandra,
ACP, Special Cell, New Delhi Range was received in their office
for verification of Voter ID card No.IPN2924296, issued in the
name of Vipin, son of Rajinder r/o Village Nilothi, Nangloi,
Delhi, date of issue 14.11.2013 and Voter ID card
No.IPN2938362 issued in the name of Nitin, son of Tai Kumar
r/o A-77, Block-A, Vikas Vihar, Nilothi Extension, Delhi, date of
issue 14.11.2013. The said letter was addressed to the Electoral
Registration Officer which is Ex.PW3/A. With the said letter,
photostat copies of the Voter ID card were also sent to them for
verification. After verification, it was found that Voter ID card
No.IPN2924296 was issued in the name of Shri Navin Jha, son of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.10 of 385
 Shri Dinesh Jha, r/o 9, Village Nilothi, Nangloi and voter card
No.IPN2938362 was issued in the name of Balwinder Kaur, wife
of Shri Jaswinder Singh, r/o A-77, Block-A, Vikas Vihar, Nilothi
Extension, New Delhi. Shri Vinod Kumar, the then AERO, AC-
08, Mundka had sent the reply. The same is Ex.PW3/B on which
he identified the signatures of Shri Vinod Kumar, the then
AERO, AC-08 as he had worked with him and seen him writing
and signing during the course of his official duties. He had
brought the record i.e. elector details of the said ID cards. The
elector details of Navin Jha is Ex.PW3/C and elector details of
Balwinder Kaur is Ex.PW3/D on which he identified the
signatures of Shri Pritam Singh, AERO, AC-08, Mundka.
Covering letter of Shri Pritam Singh is Ex.PW3/D. He identified
his signatures on all the said memos as he was working with him
and had seen him writing and signing. He also proved the
certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act, issued by Shri
Pritam Singh, who was having lawful control over the use of
computer as Ex.PW3/E. During cross-examination, he admitted
that voter cards bearing No.IPN2038362 and IPN2924296 were
not issued in his presence. He admitted that he had no personal
knowledge about the said voter cards. 11. PW4 ASI Samay Singh deposed that on 08.07.2015, he
was posted in PS Special Cell, New Range as Head Constable.
On that day, he along with SI Sohan Lal took accused Gurpreet
(since discharged) to CFSL, CBI, Lodhi Colony, CGO Complex,
New Delhi for recording of sample voice. Expert of CFSL, CBI
recorded the sample voice of accused Gurpreet. Expert of CFSL,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.11 of 385
 CBI handed over recording of sample voice of accused Gurpreet
to SI Sohan Lal in a sealed envelope, sealed with the seal of 'SPL
CELL NDR 37'. He proved the memo vide which sealed
envelope containing sample voice of accused Gurpreet in micro
SD card was taken into possession as Ex.PW4/A. He deposed
that the seal was handed over to him after use and his statement
was recorded by the IO of the case. During cross-examination, he
stated that he remained seated outside the lab where the expert
recorded the sample voice of accused Gurpreet. He did not
remember as to who brought the SD card. He did not know as to
what documents were taken by SI Sohan Lal to CFSL. The seal
was deposited in General Store CFSL. He admitted that the
facum of deposit of seal was not mentioned in his statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. He admitted that SI Sohan Lal had not
prepared any document regarding willingness of accused
Gurpreet Singh in his presence. He was not given any document
for taking to CFSL and he had only accompanied SI Sohan Lal.
Thus, nothing material had come out in his cross-examination.
Even otherwise, the accused Gurpreet has already been
discharged. 12. PW5 Shri Gurinder Pal Singh deposed that in the year
2008, he booked a flat bearing No.215, Tower-VIII, Alpine
Residency, Ambala Road, Zirakpur, Tehsil Derabassi, District
SAS Nagar, Mohali, Punjab. The possession of the flat was
handed over to him in the year 2012. He had given the said flat to
one Nitin Singh, resident of Village Nilothi, Nangloi, Delhi
through a broker. He proved the rent agreement between him and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.12 of 385
 said Nitin Singh as Ex.PW5/A. He deposed that Nitin Singh was
seen by him in police custody and he came to know about his
original name as Amit Malik @ Bhura (since discharged). He
deposed that Nitin Singh along with his colleague Vipin Singh
(whose name he came to know as Sachin Khokar later on) had
taken the said flat on rent at the rate of Rs.17000/- per month.
The agreement was executed for the period 18.01.2015 to
17.12.2015 and the tenant stayed in his flat from 18.01.2015 to
23.03.2015. At the time of rent agreement, Amit Malik @ Bhura
had given him a cheque bearing No.057141 for Rs.1 lakh as
security which was signed by Amit Malik @ Bhura in the name
of Nitin. He stated that Amit Malik @ Bhura had not paid the
rent for three months i.e. Rs.51,000/- and electricity and water
bill. The said persons vacated the said house without telling him.
Amit Malik @ Bhura had provided him his mobile phone number
as 9582354363. He deposed that in the month of April, 2015, he
had presented the said cheque amounting to Rs.1 lakh before the
bank, but it was dishonoured due to wrong account number. He
handed over the rent agreement Ex.PW5/A and cheque
Ex.PW5/B along with memo of the bank Ex.PW5/C to the police
and the said documents were taken into possession vide seizure
memo Ex.PW5/D. His statement was recorded by the IO of the
case. PW5 was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons despite opportunity being given. It may be mentioned
that PW3 had deposed about verification of Voter I Cards in the
names of Vipin and Nitin which were found to be in names of
other persons but nothing much turns on the same as Amit Malik
@ Bhura has already been discharged in the present case and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.13 of 385
 Sachin Khokar was not an accused in this case. 13. Further, Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer Shokeen had
given a statement that he did not wish to recall PW1 to PW5 for
recording their examination-in-chief further and he would adopt
the examination-in-chief of PW1 to PW5 recorded earlier as well
as the cross-examination conducted on behalf of other accused
persons. 14. PW6 Sahil Shokeen identified the accused Neeraj and
Pankaj as sons of his 'Bua' Mrs. Sudesh wife of Shri Prem Singh,
r/o village Bawana. He deposed that he had an account
No.605001011003493 in Vijaya Bank, Nangloi Branch and a
debit card No.4213416050018905 was issued to him. On being
called, he went to the office of Special Cell with his grandmother
and father. At that time, he was studying in class 11 th in Daulat
Ram Public Sr. Sec. School, Kamruddin Nagar. He deposed that
police officials had asked him about the said debit card. He had
given his debit card to his father Shri Jagdev Singh Shokeen. He
denied having knowledge about any person by the name of Amit
Malik @ Bhura. He had knowledge that the accused Pankaj and
Neeraj were involved in criminal cases. He deposed that his
statement was recorded by the police official of Special Cell. The
photocopy of his account opening form is Mark PW6/A on which
he identified his as well as photograph of his father at points A
and B respectively. He also identified his signatures on the
account opening form and that of his father. He also identified
the photocopy of his identity card of Shri Daulat Ram Public Sr.
Sec. School, photocopy of his Aadhar Card, photocopy of their

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.14 of 385
 Ration Card, photocopy of Election I. Card of his father as Mark
PW6/B, Mark PW6/C, Mark PW6/D and Mark PW6/E
respectively to be the same which were given at the time of
opening of the account. During cross-examination, he stated that
his father Shri Jagdev Singh Shokeen had expired in May, 2018.
His father used to operate and handle his said account and he was
operating the said account after the death of his father. 15. When he was recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW6 deposed the same facts as
stated earlier. He deposed that the debit card used to be in the
possession of his father and he did not know as to who might
have been using the same. 16. PW7 Smt. Shivani Sharma deposed that her husband was
running a workshop of manufacturing lead in Kamruddin Nagar,
Delhi. The owner of the said premises was Shri Jagdev Shokeen.
She did not remember the exact month and year, however, it was
about 4 - 5 years ago, when her husband had asked her to
accompany him to a showroom of cars. However, she denied
having knowledge about the place where she was taken. She
deposed that a car was purchased by her husband. She had gone
there with Shri Jagdev, owner of the premises where her husband
was running the factory. After signing the documents, she came
to her house. She denied having knowledge as to who was using
the said vehicle. She did not remember if some other persons
were accompanying Shri Jagdev Shokeen or not. 17. The Ld. Addl. PP sought permission to cross-examine her,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.15 of 385
 as she was not telling the truth which was allowed. During cross-
examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, PW7 stated that police made
inquiries from her and her statement was recorded by the police.
She admitted that in September, 2014, her husband told her that
his factory owner Shri Jagdev Shokeen wanted to purchase a car
for his relative in her name on loan. She admitted that she had
filed income tax return in the year 2013 -14. She admitted that
she had signed the documents of the car and its loan documents.
She admitted that she had gone to Moti Nagar to the showroom
of the car in order to sign the loan documents and car delivery
note. She admitted that Shri Jagdev Shokeen had also come to
the said showroom. However, she did not know if some other
persons were accompanying him. She denied the suggestion that
she had seen Shri Jagdev Shokeen along with one of his relatives
at the said showroom. She stated that she had never seen the said
car. She did not know if the delivery of the car was taken by the
relatives of Shri Jagdev Shokeen. She never used the said vehicle
and she never sat in the said car. 18. PW7 further stated that she had given copies of her Aadhar
Car, ITR for the year 2013 -14, photocopy of PAN card at the
time of taking loan for the said vehicle. Photocopy of Aadhar
card is Mark PW7/A bearing her signatures at point A; photocopy
of ITR is Mark PW7/B; photocopy of her PAN card is Mark
PW7/C; copy of delivery note of the said vehicle is Mark
PW7/D; photocopy of cyber receipt is Mark PW7/E; copy of loan
application form is Mark PW7/F; photocopy of IT of year 2012 -
13 is Mark PW7/G. She stated that she had never seen the said

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.16 of 385
 vehicle with her husband. During cross-examination she admitted
that Shri Jagdev Shokeen had never asked her husband to
purchase the vehicle for use of any of his relatives. 19. When PW7 was recalled for her examination in respect of
the accused Rambeer Shokeen, she deposed that in the year 2005,
she had purchased a car in her name in cash. However, she did
not remember the model or the manufacturer of that car. She
deposed that she along with her husband, Jagdev Shokeen and
some other persons, whom she did not know, had gone to the
showroom to purchase that car. She did not know whether she
had ever been assessed to income tax and volunteered that all the
said matters were looked after by her husband. She deposed that
on the day they had gone to the showroom, they received the
delivery of the car. Sometimes, Jagdev Shokeen used to drive
that vehicle for his own use and at present the said car was
probably in police custody. She did not know what had happened
with that vehicle. She had not made any complaint to the police
alleging that her vehicle had been stolen or had been missing.
Copy of her PAN card is Mark PW7/H. She did not know
whether any installment of the loan on the said vehicle was ever
paid or not and volunteered her husband might be knowing about
it. She did not know the registration number of the car. She was
also cross-examined by the Ld. Addl. PP. However, she was not
cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
despite opportunity being given. 20. PW8 Shri Ranjan Kumar deposed that he was running a
factory and was in the business of manufacturing raw material of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.17 of 385
 battery. He had taken the premises for running the factory from
Shri Jagdev Shokeen on rent in Kamruddin Nagar. He used to
pay Rs.15,000/- per month to Shri Jagdev Shokeen for the rent.
At present he was paying Rs.20,000/- per month for rent. About 4 - 5 years prior, he purchased a car make Etios Liva from Moti
Nagar in the name of his wife. His wife furnished the documents
there. The said vehicle was taken on loan. His wife executed the
loan documents. He stated that he was using the said vehicle. He
along with his wife had gone to the showroom. He purchased the
said vehicle and he was paying the installments of the said car.
Police made inquiries from him. He stated that his statement was
never recorded by the police. However, his statement was
recorded by one Judge Saheb and he proved his statement under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. as Ex.PW8/A. 21. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put
questions to the witness as he was not telling the truth which was
allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP
he stated that police made inquiries from him with regard to the
said car. He did not remember if his statement was recorded by
the police. He admitted that he was paying Rs.12,000/- per month
for the rent to Shri Jagdev Shokeen. He denied the suggestion
that in September 2014, Shri Jagdev Shokeen had asked him to
purchase a new car either in his name or in the name of his wife
Shivani or that when he asked from Shri Jagdev Shokeen the
purpose of purchasing the car, he told him that his nephew
Pankaj needed a car in the name of other person. He stated that
he did not know the accused Pankaj, present in the Court or if the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.18 of 385
 accused Pankaj was the nephew of Shri Jagdev Shokeen or that
he used to come frequently there to meet Shri Jagdev Shokeen
and others. He denied the suggestion that he promised Shri
Jagdev Shokeen that he would purchase a new car in the name of
his wife for him or that he had stated all the said facts to the
police in his statement. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW8/B wherein it was so recorded. 22. PW8 further admitted that he and his wife had a joint
account in HDFC Bank, Bhera Enclave, Paschim Vihar, New
Delhi. He admitted that his wife filed income tax return of about
Rs.2 lakhs. He denied the suggestion that he had given required
documents of his wife i.e. income tax return, photos, Aadhar
Card, PAN Card etc. for obtaining loan for purchasing a car for
the accused Pankaj or that he along with his wife, accused Pankaj
and one other person had visited the showroom in the name and
style of 'Car Unlimited' situated at 69/3A, opposite Movements
Mall, towards Patel Nagar, Moti Nagar, New Delhi, along with
income tax return, Aadhar Card, PAN card, HDFC bank cheque
book and volunteered that he along with his wife had gone there.
He denied the suggestion that the accused Pankaj had already
selected a car make Etios Liva or that he had stated all the said
facts to the police in his statement. He was confronted with the
statement Ex.PW8/B wherein it was so recorded. He admitted
that his wife completed all the formalities. He admitted that it
took 2 - 3 days in sanctioning of the loan. He denied the
suggestion that after sanctioning of the loan, accused Pankaj and
his friend had visited the showroom and got delivery of the car

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.19 of 385
 bearing registration No.DL-8CAF- 9780 or that he had seen the
said car with Pankaj after 3 - 4 days of the delivery or that during
Delhi Assembly elections in February, 2015, the said car was
used by accused Pankaj in the elections or that after purchasing
the said car, he was paying only Rs.1,000/- as rent to Shri Jagdev
Shokeen as he was also paying Rs.11,005/- per month as
installment for purchasing the said vehicle for accused Pankaj or
that he had stated all the said facts to the police in his statement.
He was confronted with the statement Ex.PW8/B wherein it was
so recorded. 23. PW8 further denied the suggestion that he had expressed
his inability regarding the whereabouts of the car or that he had
taken the said car on loan for accused Pankaj at the instance of
his factory owner Shri Jagdev Shokeen or that he had stated all
the said facts to the police in his statement. He was confronted
with the statement Ex.PW8/B wherein it was so recorded. He
stated that he did not know if the accused Pankaj and his brother
Neeraj are desperate criminals. He denied the suggestion that he
was deposing falsely under fear of the accused persons or that he
had stated all the said facts in his statement. He admitted that his
statement was recorded by the Ld. Magistrate on 24.04.2015 and
that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate that one vehicle was
impounded from the possession of accused Neeraj Bawania and
the said car was registered in the name of his wife Shivani
Sharma. He admitted that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate
that he had taken the space for his business from Shri Jagdev
Shokeen in Kamruddin Nagar, Nangloi. He denied the suggestion

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.20 of 385
 that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate that he had
purchased a car make Etios Liva at the instance of Shri Jagdev
Shokeen for use of his nephew and money was given by Shri
Jagdev Shokeen. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW8/A wherein it was so recorded. He admitted that he had
stated before the Ld. Magistrate that his wife had only signed the
documents and the car was purchased in or about September,
2014 from Moti Nagar and he had also accompanied his wife. He
denied the suggestion that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate
that he along with his wife Shivani, Shri Jagdev Shokeen,
accused Pankaj and one another boy had gone to purchase the
vehicle and volunteered accused Pankaj had not gone with them.
He denied the suggestion that he had not stated before the Ld.
Magistrate that he had purchased the said car at the instance of
Shri Jagdev Shokeen or that he had stated the said facts before
the Ld. Magistrate. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW8/A wherein it was so recorded. He did not remember, if
he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate that the installments of
the car used to be adjusted from the rent of the shed which was
taken by him from Shri Jagdev Shokeen. He did not remember, if
he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate that the car was used by
Shri Jagdev Shokeen. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW8/A wherein it was so recorded. 24. PW8 further stated that he had visited only once in the
showroom situated at Moti Nagar for purchasing the car. He had
himself taken delivery of the car. He had not brought any proof
showing that he took delivery of the said vehicle. He could not

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.21 of 385
 produce the delivery note of the said vehicle. He admitted that he
was called in Special Cell, Lodhi Colony, in the year 2015.
However, he did not remember the date and month. He admitted
that on the same day, his statement was recorded by the Ld. M.M.
He did not remember if he was having his vehicle in August,
2015. He stated that his vehicle was also being used by his
landlord Shri Jagdev Shokeen. He did not know if in August,
2015, one criminal Sunil Rathi along with other criminals namely
Sunil Chaudhary and others were roaming in the said vehicle in
Dehradun or that during the checking, they fired on police party.
He did not know if the said persons were apprehended there with
his car. He stated that he had never given the said vehicle to the
said criminals. He stated that he had never met with the accused
Neeraj and Pankaj, present in the Court. He never handed over
his said vehicle to the said persons. The car was taken by Shri
Jagdev Shokeen for a maximum period of 10 - 15 days. He did
not know the whereabouts of his vehicle from April, 2015 to
August, 2015. He did not know if the said vehicle was recovered
in Dehradun. He admitted that the said vehicle was not with him
from the time when he was called by the Special Cell. He never
lodged any complaint regarding theft or missing of the said
vehicle. About 15 days prior to calling him by the officials of
Special Cell, he had given his vehicle to Shri Jagdev Shokeen.
He could not comment why he had not registered any complaint
regarding the said vehicle. He stated that he was not having any
rent receipt of the shed after September, 2014. He could not
produce any document like Toll Plaza slip, insurance claim,
parking slip, showing that he was using the said car. He denied

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.22 of 385
 the suggestion that he could not produce any document showing
that he was using the said car as the same was used by accused
Pankaj or that he had purchased the said car at the instance of
Shri Jagdev Shokeen for his nephew Pankaj or that he was
suppressing the true facts of the case in order to save the accused
persons as he was under fear or that he had stated all the said
facts before the police as well as before the Ld. Magistrate. He
was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons except
accused Pankaj Sehrawat despite opportunity being given and
during cross-examination he admitted that till date neither he nor
any of his family members received any threat. He could not
produce any document as the same were in the car. He stated that
the documents of the car used to remain in the car. He did not
know any person in the name of Sunil Rathi. 25. PW8 was recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he stated that in the year 2015, he
had purchased a car Etios Liva in the name of his wife. It was
purchased on the request of his landlord who stated that he
needed a vehicle for his own use. He had purchased that vehicle
on loan. The loan was in the name of his wife. The vehicle, its
color, make and model were decided by Jagdev Shokeen. He, his
wife, Jagdev Shokeen and two more persons, whom he did not
know, had gone to take the delivery of the vehicle. The same day
he handed over the vehicle to Jagdev Shokeen. The showroom
was situated in Moti Nagar but he did not remember its name. He
had never used that vehicle. He stated that he used to repay the
loan in installments and the amount of installment was adjusted

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.23 of 385
 in the rent which was to be paid to Jagdev Shokeen. He did not
remember the month or year but one year in the summer season,
Crime Branch officials came to his house and informed him that
his vehicle had been seized from one goon (badmash). They did
not tell him wherefrom that vehicle was seized. He did not know
who else apart from Jagdev Shokeen was using that vehicle. The
registration number of that vehicle was DL-8C AF 9780. He
stated that police had recorded his statement and his statement
was also recorded by a Magistrate. He stated that Jagdev
Shokeen had stated that he needed the vehicle for the use of his
family. He had not given him a particular name of the person for
whom he required the vehicle. PW8 was cross-examined by the
Ld. Additional PP for State and he denied the suggestions that
were put to him though he stated that sometimes, he had seen the
vehicle parked in his factory. He admitted that the accused
Pankaj used to come to his factory and he knew him. He was not
cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
despite opportunity being given. 26. PW9 Shri Kamaldeep Dabas @ Monu deposed that he
was running a restaurant under the name and style of 'Badshah
Restaurant' at Punjabi Bagh. In the year 2014 - 15, he was
running a Bar under the name and style of 'BNB Shooters' at
Rajouri Garden, New Delhi. He stated that no one demanded
money from him. He was running his business peacefully. He had
come to the Court where his statement was recorded by one
Judge Saheb and he proved his statement recorded under Section
164 Cr.P.C. as Ex.PW9/A.

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.24 of 385 27. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put
questions to the witness as he was not telling the truth which was
allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP,
PW9 denied the suggestion that in January, 2015, gang members
of accused Neeraj had come to his club 'BNB Shooters' and they
told him that Neeraj had demanded half share of the income of
the club or that he asked them to get his meeting fixed with
Neeraj or that the members of Neeraj and Pankaj gang took him
to the office of Rambeer Shokeen, MLA, situated at Kamruddin
Nagar or that he met the accused Neeraj Bawania, whom he
identified or that the accused Neeraj Bawania threatened him to
give half share of income of the club to him or that he had
requested again and again to accused Neeraj, on which the
accused Neeraj asked him to give Rs.2.5 lakhs in order to get rid
of the said matter or that he asked him to grant him 2 - 3 days for
arranging the money. He denied the suggestion that Neeraj told
him that after three days, Sandeep Sehrawat, son of his uncle
(Tau) would come to his village and he should hand over the
money to him or that Sandeep Sehrawat came to his village and
he handed over Rs.2.5 lakhs to him for handing over the same to
the accused Neeraj or that he could not make complaint due to
their fear or that he had stated all the said facts to the police in his
statement. He was confronted with the statement Ex.PW9/B
wherein it was so recorded. He denied the suggestion that he had
stated the said facts to the police or that he was suppressing the
true facts of the case as he was under fear. 28. PW9 admitted that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.25 of 385
 that he had given Rs.2.5 lakhs to the accused Neeraj Bawania in
January, 2015 as he was forcibly demanding half share of income
of the club 'BNB Bar'. He admitted that he had stated before the
Ld. Magistrate that on his request, accused Neeraj had agreed to
take Rs.2.5 lakhs in order to leave the forcible share. He admitted
that he had stated before the Ld. Magistrate that one person of
accused Neeraj had taken the amount from him and after that he
was not harassed by the accused Neeraj. He admitted that he had
given the said statement before the Ld. Magistrate willingly and
voluntarily. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat despite opportunity being given. During cross-
examination on behalf of the remaining accused persons, he
stated that he had never received any threat from anyone. No
person had approached him to depose before the Court. He
admitted that he was never asked by anyone to depose before the
Court. On that day, he was narrating the true facts and deposing
voluntarily. He admitted that he was called by the Special Cell
officials in their office and that after his visit to the Special Cell,
his statement was recorded by the Ld. Magistrate. 29. PW9 was also recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he stated that he had never
received any threats for demand of extortion money in the year
2015. He was cross-examined by the Ld. Additional PP for State
and he denied the suggestions that were put to him though he
admitted his statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which
is Ex.PW9/A and that the said statement was given by him
voluntarily, without any threat, coercion or pressure. He was not

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.26 of 385
 cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
despite opportunity being given. 30. PW10 Ajay Thakur deposed that for the past two months
he had been working as GM Sale in Shree Durga Auto Mobile at
68/3 Najafgarh Road, Moti Nagar. Earlier Mr. Praveen Gara was
working as GM Sale in the said firm. For one month, he had
worked with him and he had seen him writing and signing during
his ordinary course of duty and therefore, he could identify his
signatures. He had brought the copy of registration No.DL10CT
0917 a Scorpio Mahindra SUV copy of which is Ex.PW10/1. He
had also brought the copy of receipt of registration tax paid on
the said vehicle which is Ex.PW10/2; copy of sale certificate i.e.
Form No.21 is Ex.PW10/3; copy of invoice is Ex.PW10/4; copy
of insurance cover note is Ex.PW10/5; copy of delivery receipt is
Ex.PW10/6; copy of delivery order of finance from Indusind
Bank is Ex.PW10/7; copy of payment credit advice is
Ex.PW10/8; copy of receipt of payment made by the buyer is
Ex.PW10/9; copy of PAN card and Aadhaar Card submitted by
the buyer are Ex.PW10/10 and Ex.PW10/11 respectively. 31. PW10 deposed that the said vehicle was purchased by Shri
Pankaj Sehrawat S/o Shri Prem Chand on 26.06.2014. The buyer
had made a down payment in cash. It was paid in two
installments of Rs.4,15,900/- and Rs.10,000/- There was a bank
finance of Rs.6,92,930/-. Apart from that two more payments
were made in cash of Rs.14,000/- and Rs.968/-. The copy of the
ledger of their firm bearing his signatures is Ex.PW10/12. He had
also brought the copy of registration No.DL4CNB8763 Scorpio

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.27 of 385
 SUV the copy of which is Ex.PW10/13. He had also brought the
copy of receipt of registration tax paid on the said vehicle which
is Ex.PW10/14; copy of sale certificate i.e. Form No.21 bearing
his signatures is Ex.PW10/15: copy of invoice is Ex.PW10/16;
copy of insurance cover note is Ex.PW10/17; copy of delivery
receipt is Ex.PW10/18; copy of demand draft from Vijaya Bank
is Ex.PW10/19; copy of receipt of payment is Ex.PW10/20; copy
of receipt of payment made by the buyer is Ex.PW10/21; copy of
PAN card and Election I Card submitted by the buyer are
Ex.PW10/22 and Ex.PW10/23 respectively. He stated that the
said vehicle was purchased by Shri Pankaj Sehrawat S/o Shri
Prem Chand on 06.02.2013. The buyer had made a down
payment in cash. It was paid in two installments of Rs.12,500/-
and Rs.10,000/-. There was a bank finance of Rs.10,63,368/-.
The copy of the ledger of their firm bearing his signatures is
Ex.PW10/24. He had also seen the copies of the documents on
record which bore the signatures of Shri Praveen Gara which are
collectively Ex.PW10/25 (running into 31 pages). He was not
cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons despite
opportunity being given. 32. PW11 Shri Gulshan Batra deposed that he was running a
sweet shop by the name of Hira Lal Halwai at Bawana main
chowk. He had never received any threat or demand either in
person or through telephone. The Ld. Additional PP requested for
permission to put questions to the witness as he was not telling
the truth which was allowed and during cross-examination by the
Ld. Additional PP, he denied the suggestion that in February

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.28 of 385
 2012, he had received a telephone call on his mobile
No.9810883539 from one person who stated that his name was
Bali or that he asked him to arrange for Rs.5 lakhs within three
days and on his failure he threatened to blow his shop. He was
confronted with the statement Mark PW11/A wherein it was so
recorded. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons despite opportunity being given. 33. PW11 was recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he stated that he had never made
any complaint to the police and had never received any threats
from anyone. His statement was recorded by the police during
the investigation of the case and he had stated the same what he
had stated that day. He was cross-examined by the Ld. Additional
PP for State as he was stated to be resiling from his earlier
statement and during cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, he
denied the suggestions that were put to him. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite
opportunity being given. 34. PW12 Shri Rajesh Bansal deposed that he was a property
dealer by profession. He knew Rakesh S/o Dayanand since his
childhood. In January, 2013 Rakesh along with one Pinta came to
his office at C-1/106, Sector-11, Rohini. He did not remember the
exact particulars of the plot but Rakesh informed him that there
was a plot which belonged to one of his relatives and he wanted
to sell it. The plot was measuring about 600 sq. yds and was
situated in an area called Shiv Vihar. He went with them and saw
that plot and thereafter, he informed some local property dealer

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.29 of 385
 that the said plot was available for sale. The local property
dealers found some buyers and a meeting between sellers and
buyers was held in January or February, 2013 in his office. The
buyers were brought to his office by one Sanjay Rana and
Joginder Thakaran. The buyers agreed to buy that plot. He did
not remember the total consideration amount but at that time
around Rs.20 lakhs to Rs.25 lakhs in cash were given as earnest
money and one cheque of Rs.5 lakhs was also given towards
earnest money. The entire consideration amount was to be paid
within four to five months. A few months later, Sanjay Rana and
Joginder came to his office with buyers Chand Ram, Vijay
Kumar and Rakesh. From the seller side, Rakesh, Pinta, father of
Pinta namely Bhagwan Dass and father-in-law of Rakesh namely
Satyanarayan came to his office. He did not remember the exact
amount but some amount in cash and some in cheque was handed
over. One Rakesh @ Babla had also come to his office but he did
not know him personally. PW12 stated that he had come to
Patiala House Court where his statement was recorded by the Ld.
Judge and he proved his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
which is Ex.PW12/1. He stated that he had also come to Patiala
House Court for a second time where his statement was recorded
by the Ld. Judge and he proved the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. as Ex.PW12/2. 35. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put
leading questions to the witness regarding details of the deal
which was allowed and he stated that he did not remember and
therefore could not admit whether Khasra number of that plot

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.30 of 385
 was 38/24 but he admitted that the said plot was in Village
Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar. He was never informed by the seller that
there was a dispute regarding that plot with one Rakesh @ Babla
r/o Khedi, Jasaur, District Jhajar, Haryana or that the said dispute
had since ended. He did not remember whether the exact amount
agreed for the sale of that plot was Rs.2.2 crores. The Ld.
Additional PP requested for permission to put questions to the
witness as he was not telling the truth which was allowed and
during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP he denied the
suggestion that the Khasra number of that plot was 38/24 or that
the seller had told him that there was a dispute with one Rakesh
@ Babla which had since been settled or that the sale
consideration of that plot was agreed at Rs.2.2 crores or that
when the sale was finally effected, Rs.1.7 crores were given in
cash and three cheques, two cheques of Rs.7 lakhs and Rs.8 lakhs
drawn on Karur Vysya Bank Ltd. from account number
4104135000003214 from the account of Vijay having number
000111 and 000112 and the third cheque of Rs.5 lakhs bearing
number 003792 drawn on account number 20366407114 of
Allahabad Bank in the name of Rakesh Kumar were also handed
over. He denied the suggestion that out of the said amount, Rs.1.1
crores in cash and three cheques were given to Rakesh @ Babla
and Sandeep @ Bablu or that remaining Rs.60 lakhs were given
to Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass or that Rakesh Babla and
Pankaj Bawania had come to his office to find out about the sale
price of that plot and he volunteered that Rakesh Babla would
come with three or four persons but he did not personally know
any of them. He was confronted with the statement Mark

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.31 of 385
 PW12/A wherein the said facts were recorded. He admitted that
for execution of sale documents, a GPA was executed which was
attested by Notary Med Singh. He stated that he could identify
the persons who used to come to his office with regard to the deal
of the plot and he was shown the accused Pankaj Sehrawat but he
stated that the said man had never come to his office and not
dealt with him and he denied the suggestion that he was
deliberately not identifying the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. He was
not cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons despite
opportunity being given. 36. PW12 was recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he had deposed to the same effect
as deposed earlier and he was also cross-examined by the Ld.
Additional PP for State as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement and during cross-examination he had stated that
police had recorded his statement though he denied the
suggestions that were put to him. He admitted that out of the
consideration amount, some amount was paid in cash and some
through cheques. He also admitted that his statement was
recorded by the Ld. Magistrate which is Ex.PW12/1 and that the
said statement was given by him voluntarily and without any
threat, coercion or pressure. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity
being given. 37. PW13 Shri Rakesh Chikara deposed that he was
working as ASI in Delhi Police. Shri Satyanarayan is his father-
in-law. In January 2013, he had received a phone call from his

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.32 of 385
 father-in-law who told him that he along with one Shri Bhagwan
Dass owned a plot measuring 600 square yards in Shiv Vihar,
Shahbad Daulatpur. He further told him that some persons had
put bricks in that plot in order to possess it. He requested him to
go and have a look. He along with Pinta who was the son of
Bhagwan Dass went to that plot. He found that bricks had been
unloaded in that plot. They returned and two to three days later,
he along with Pinta and Ravinder who was the grandson of his
father-in-law again went to that plot. At that plot, they met one
Rakesh from Jasaur Khedi, Haryana. He told him that the actual
owner of that plot was his father who had purchased it around 20
to 25 years ago. He also showed his purported chain of
documents. They compared the chain of documents which he had
and which his father-in-law had. In the chain of documents of his
father-in-law, the execution by one of the landowners was
missing and the documents of Rakesh were found to be in order.
Thereafter, a settlement was arrived at that the plot may be sold
jointly and out of the sale consideration, amount for 400 square
yards of land would be received by Rakesh and of 200 square
yards would be received by his father-in-law and his partner. 38. PW13 stated that he approached Rajesh Bansal, a property
dealer of his village to find buyers for that plot. In February
2013, he told him that he had found buyers for that plot. He,
Rakesh of Jasaur Khedi and Pinta went to the office of Rajesh
Bansal. At his office, they met Sanjay Rana and Joginder. The
sale consideration of the plot was agreed at around Rs.2 crores
though he did not remember the exact amount. 2-3 days later, an

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.33 of 385
 agreement to sell was executed. Pursuant to that agreement,
Rs.30 lakhs was paid as earnest money. Out of the said amount,
Rs.25 lakhs was paid in cash and Rs.5 lakhs was given through
cheque. He received Rs.5 lakhs in cash on behalf of his father-in-
law. Pinta received the cheque on behalf of his father and the
remaining amount of Rs.20 lakhs was received by Rakesh. Final
payment was to be made within 4 months. Somewhere in June,
2013, they again went to the office of Rajesh Bansal. On that day,
he, his father-in-law, Ravinder, Pinta, Rakesh alias Babla and
Bhagwan Dass had gone to the office of Rajesh Bansal. From the
buyer's side, Chand Ram and two more persons had come. The
entire remaining amount was paid on that day. Some of it was in
cash and some through cheque. Of the consideration amount, his
father-in-law had received Rs.30 lakhs as his share and transfer
documents were executed and notarized and were executed by
Bhagwan Dass, Satyanarayan and Rakesh alias Babla. He did not
know anything else about the case and he had nothing more to
add. He stated that he had come to Patiala House Court where his
statement was recorded by the Ld. Judge and he proved the
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. as Ex.PW13/1. 39. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put
questions to the witness as he was not telling the truth which was
allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP
he stated that it was possible that the said plot was having Khasra
number 38/24. He denied the suggestion that when he met
Rakesh @ Babla at the said plot, he said to him that he was
present at that plot on behalf of Neeraj Bawania and Rambeer

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.34 of 385
 Shokeen who was his maternal uncle and volunteered he had
only told him that Neeraj Bawania was the son of his Mausi. He
denied the suggestion that when he saw the documents of Rakesh
@ Babla they were found to be fake. He admitted that when he
told his father-in-law that the name of Neeraj Bawania was
cropping up in the plot dispute, he said that in that case they
should not get into any entangle or legal action and asked him to
somehow settle the dispute out of court. He denied the suggestion
that out of fear of Neeraj Bawania and Rambeer Shokeen, his
father-in-law agreed for the settlement about which he had stated
in his examination in chief or that Rakesh @ Babla had
threatened to kill him if they did not agree to the settlement as
per the terms given by him. He could not admit or deny whether
the documents of sale were only executed by Satyanarayan and
Bhagwan Dass or that he had stated to the police in his statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and in his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that the documents for sale of that plot were executed by
Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass. He was confronted with the
statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Mark PW13/A and the
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Ex.PW13/1 wherein the said
fact was recorded. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused persons despite opportunity being given. 40. PW13 was recalled for examination in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he deposed the same facts as
stated by him earlier. He was also cross-examined by the Ld.
Additional PP for State as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement and he denied the suggestions that were put to

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.35 of 385
 him. He admitted that when they had met Rakesh @ Babla for
the first time, he had stated that Neeraj Bawania was the son of
his Mausi. He admitted that on being asked by his father-in-law,
he got the settlement done between him and Rakesh @ Babla.
He admitted that the property was sold for an amount of Rs.2.20
crores. He admitted that he had stated that the activities of Neeraj
Bawana and his gang were known to him as he was in police and
knowing that they were desperate criminals, he had apprehension
that they could harm the family of his father-in-law or his partner.
He admitted that the statement Ex.PW13/1 was given by him
voluntarily and without any threat, coercion and pressure. He was
not cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
despite opportunity being given. 41. PW14 ACP Govind Sharma deposed that on 01.12.2016,
he was posted as ACP in Special Cell, New Delhi Range. On that
day, accused Rambeer Shokeen was already in custody of Special
Cell in FIR No.65/2016. As he was wanted in this case, he
interrogated the accused and arrested him in this case. He proved
the arrest memo dated 01.12.2016 as Ex.PW14/1. He recorded
the statements of formal witnesses and thereafter, filed the
supplementary charge-sheet in this case against Rambeer
Shokeen. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons except Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being
given. During cross-examination on behalf of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen, PW14 stated that on the day of arrest of the
accused, he was the IO of the case. He had remained the IO for
around one month. The IO before him was Shri Manishi

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.36 of 385
 Chandra. He did not exactly remember but he had probably
handed over the investigation to Insp. Hriday Bhushan. He had
recorded the reasons for the arrest of the accused in the case
diary. He had not got any instructions from any senior officer for
arrest in this case. As such, nothing material had come out in the
cross-examination of PW14 and he had mainly stated about the
arrest of the accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present case on
1.12.2016. 42. PW15 Shri Rajnish Khanna deposed that in the year
2015, he was posted at HDFC Bank, A Block Janak Puri and was
working as Assistant Vice President. He had seen the notice dated
14.05.2015 which was received in their bank and is Ex.PW15/1.
They had been asked to give CCTV footage of 01.01.2015 of two
ATMs of their bank in Kolkata having ID number S1ANCC71
and S1AWSI04. He accordingly directed the concerned person at
Kolkata office to provide the footage. On receipt of the footage in
CDs, he gave the sealed envelope containing the CDs to Special
Cell vide letter dated 29.05.2015 which he proved as Ex.PW15/2.
Along with the CDs, he had also handed over a certificate under Section 65B Evidence Act which he proved as Ex.PW15/3. He
had also handed over the printouts of screenshots of CCTV
footage to the police which he proved as Ex.PW15/4 to
Ex.PW15/12 and the envelope in which he had handed over the
CDs received from Kolkata to Delhi Police as Ex.PW15/13. He
stated that he had asked for the CCTV footage for the period as
had been asked in the letter Ex.PW15/1. During cross-
examination on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW15

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.37 of 385
 did not remember whether he had received the CDs in a sealed
envelope or whether it was in open condition. He had also
received the photograph/ screenshots of CCTV footage. He had
never been to Kolkata. He had never played the CDs which had
been received from Kolkata. He stated that he had met the police
officials only once. During cross-examination on behalf of the
other accused persons except accused Pankaj Sehrawat, he stated
that the footage captured in CCTV of the ATMs located in
Kolkata was stored in servers in Kolkata. He did not know under
whose control the said servers were but they must be under the
control of the branch looking after them; they were not under his
control. 43. PW16 ASI Bichhu Singh deposed that on 27.11.2016, he
was posted in Special Cell, NFC, New Delhi. On that day, he had
received an information that SI Vikram Dahiya had apprehended
Rambeer Shokeen with one illegal weapon and he was asked to
come to Yuva Shakti School, Rama Vihar wherefrom, as per the
information, the accused had been apprehended. On reaching
there, SI Vikram produced accused Rambeer Shokeen before
him. He also produced one sealed pulanda which according to
him contained a 9 mm pistol which was recovered from the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. He also gave him carbon copy of the
tehrir which he had prepared, seizure memo of the pistol and two
cartridges and sketch of the pistol. He was informed that the
pulanda also had two cartridges. He interrogated the accused
Rambeer Shokeen, recorded his statement and thereafter arrested
him in this case, again said, he had arrested him in FIR

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.38 of 385
 No.65/2016. Thereafter, he brought the accused to the Special
Cell Office. On 24.01.2017, he had filed charge sheet of FIR
No.65/2016 and he proved the certified copy of the same as
Ex.PW16/1. On 07.12.2016, he had handed over the sketch of the
pistol, disclosure statement of accused Rambeer Shokeen and
seizure memo to ACP Govind Sharma of Special Cell. He
identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused persons except accused
Rambeer Shokeen. His cross-examination was deferred but
thereafter vide order dated 05.05.2022 it was directed that he
need not be recalled for further cross-examination. 44. PW17 Subhash Chandra Dhingra @ Pinta deposed that
around 10-12 years prior, he was running a dairy. His father had a
plot measuring approximately 600 square yards at Shahbad
Daulatpur. His father and his partner owned 300 square yards
each. They had given that plot to a Carpenter who used to keep
his material in that plot. One day, his father told him that he and
his partner had sold that plot. He was never involved in the deal
in which that plot was sold. He had never received any threats
regarding that plot. He did not know whether anybody had tried
to take forcible possession of that plot. He did not know about
the sale price of that plot or how much money in total was
received by his father but he knew about a cheque of Rs.5 lakhs
which was received by his father. He did not know if anybody
else had also received money from the sale proceeds of that plot. 45. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.39 of 385
 earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, PW17 stated that police had
made inquiries from him and recorded his statement. He denied
the suggestion that he had told the police that in January 2013, he
had received a phone call from Rakesh Babla r/o Jasoor Khedi,
Jhajjar who claimed that their plot at Shahbad Daulatpur in fact
belonged to him or that if they visited that plot, there would be
unpleasant consequences or that he had stated to the police that
Pankaj had also threatened him during the same phone call
claiming that he was the brother of Neeraj Bawania or that he
threatened him that in case they contested their claim, he would
kill him (plot ke mamle me aaya toh jaan se maar dunga) or that
he had stated to the police that Rakesh Babla had also told him
that they had unloaded bricks on that plot and that from then on,
the said plot belonged to them or that he had stated to the police
that he had told Satyanarayan, his father's partner and his father
about the threatening phone calls he had received from Rakesh
Babla and Pankaj. He denied the suggestion that he had gone to
that plot with Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass where they met
Rakesh Babla who showed them some documents claiming
ownership of that plot or that he had threatened them by using
the name of Neeraj Bawania and Rambeer Shokeen, or that he
claimed that he was a cousin of Neeraj Bawania. He denied the
suggestion that out of fear, they agreed to a compromise whereby
it was agreed that the plot would be sold of which 60% of the
proceeds would go to Neeraj Bawania gang and 40% would be
given to his father and his partner. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.40 of 385 46. PW17 further denied the suggestion that he had stated to
the police that the said plot was sold for a consideration of
Rs.2.20 crores or that he had stated to the police that from the
seller side he on behalf of his father, Satyanarayan and Rakesh
Chikara for Satyanarayan and Rakesh Babla had approached the
property dealer for the sale of that plot. He denied the suggestion
that he had stated to the police that after the GPA of that plot, he
and his father returned home or that the sale price for 100 square
yards which was given to his father as his share was kept by
Satyanarayan or that after a few days, Rakesh Chikara came to
their house and gave Rs.27 lakhs to his father or that in total, they
had received Rs.32 lakhs from the sale of that plot. He was
confronted with the statement Ex.PW17/1 wherein all the said
facts were recorded. He denied the suggestion that he had not
disclosed the true facts because of the fear of the accused
persons. During cross-examination, he stated that he did not have
any acquaintance with Neeraj or Pankaj Sehrawat. He admitted
that none of the said persons had ever threatened him. He stated
that he never had any conversation with any person named
Rakesh Babla. His father had never told him that he had sold the
said plot under somebody's pressure. He stated that his father was
happy with the deal. He stated that his father had since expired.
He was residing separately from his father. He stated that on that
day, he had deposed the true facts. He had stated the same facts
to the police which he had stated in the Court. He never had any
interaction with Rambeer Shokeen. In connection to the present
case, he had met the police only twice when he was summoned to
their Lodhi Road office. His father and his partner had never

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.41 of 385
 complained to him about any force being used in the deal of the
plot. 47. PW18 Sachin Goel deposed that he was in the business of
money transfer under his own name. He operated on a platform
namely M-rupee which is backed by TATA. The process is that a
customer could walk into his shop, give him his mobile number
and account number and give the amount to be transferred in
cash. On receipt of cash and the said information, after deducting
his commission, he remitted the amount into the given account.
In the month of March 2015, one person named Ashish
approached him in his shop. He wanted to transfer Rs.50,500/- in
one account. The account in which the money was to be
transferred was in the name of Jasbir Singh and was held with
HDFC Bank. He gave him Rs.51,000/- and he transferred
Rs.50,550/- in the account of Jasbir as had been instructed by
Ashish. He had transferred the said money from his personal
account of OBC number 03285011000455, Branch : GT Karnal
Road, Azadpur and not through M-rupee platform. He had
received a notice to join investigation of the case and he had
gone to police station at Lodhi Road. He was shown a register
which he stated that he used to maintain in his usual course of
business wherein the entries of transactions done by him were
made. The register is Ex.PW18/1. The entry of the transaction
conducted at the request of Ashish whereby an amount of
Rs.50,550/- was transferred to the HDFC account of Jasbir is at
point A on page 44. The mobile number reflected against the
entry was of the client Ashish. On being reminded that the full

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.42 of 385
 name of the said person was Ashish Nain, he recalled and stated
that it was correct. He proved the seizure memo through which
the register Ex.PW18/1 was seized as Ex.PW18/2. 48. PW19 Shri Hans Raj Goel deposed that he was having a
hardware shop in Village Bawana and in the year 2012 also he
was in the same business. He stated that in the year 2012 he had
not received any threat of any kind from anyone. He denied
having made the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. He was
cross-examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for State as he was stated to
be resiling from his earlier statement and he admitted that on
02.04.2015, he was called to the office of Special Cell and his
statement was recorded. He denied the suggestion that he had
stated in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that in January,
2012, on a Tuesday, at around 6:30 p.m. he had received a call on
his mobile No.9212470517 or that the caller on the other side
stated that he was Bali and he had asked him "bhai se jakar mil
liyo". He denied the suggestion that he had stated that before he
could say anything Bali repeated "Neeraj Bhai se jakar Mil Liyo" 69. The case exhibits as well as case report were sealed with
the seal of DOC, FSL and handed over to the concerned
authorized messenger. His report dated 27.11.2015 bearing FSL
No.2015/D-4566 is Ex.PW35/1. PW35 further deposed that on
09.12.2015, he was posted as Senior Scientific Officer
(Documents) FSL, Rohini. From the office of Addl. DCP, Special

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.64 of 385
 Cell, New Delhi, some questioned documents i.e. red enclosed
writings/signatures marked Q1 to Q14 and Q1/1 in a diary
marked volume VI; Q15 and Q16 in an organizer diary marked
volume V2; Q17 and Q17/1 on a guest registration card of Juhu
Residency Boutique Hotel dated 23.01.2015; Q18, Q18/1 and
Q18/2 on a form of Hotel Jai Mahal; Q19 and Q19/1 on a form
'F' Rule (10 and 14), Narayana; Q20 on a bill of Hotel Shree
Narayan, dated 31.03.2015; Q21 and Q21/1 on a guest
registration card of Hotel Prem Palace; Q22 and Q22/1 on a guest
registration form of SENSES; Q23, Q24 and Q26 to Q28 on an
account opening form of Bank of India; Q25 on a deposit slip of
Bank of India dated 12.04.2014; Q29 on a Xerox copy of an
Election ID card and Q30 on a IRC issued against/ damaged RC
as well as specimen writing/ signatures i.e. Mark S1 to S44 of
Shri Neeraj Sehrawat were received in FSL Rohini vide
memorandum No.9235/SO/ACP/NDR Lodhi Colony New Delhi
dated 09.12.2015 in case FIR No.10/15 dated 23.02.2015 under Sections 3 / 4 of MCOCA PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony. The
documents were marked to him for examination and reporting.
All the documents were carefully and scientifically examined and
he was of the opinion that: 70. PW35 stated that the case exhibits as well as case report

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.65 of 385
 were sealed with the seal of DOC, FSL and handed over to the
concerned authorized messenger. His report dated 15.01.2016
bearing FSL No.FSL 2015/D-7933 is Ex.PW35/2. He stated that
the questioned documents Q1 to Q14 were bound in a diary and
each page bore his stamp and are collectively exhibited as
Ex.PW35/3. Questioned documents Q15 and Q16 were also a
part of a diary and are collectively Ex.PW35/4. Questioned
documents Q17 to Q30 are collectively Ex.PW35/5. The
specimen and signature S1 to S44 running into 44 pages are
collectively Ex.PW35/6. During cross-examination he denied the
suggestion that he did not examine the signature/ hand-writing
and gave his report at the behest of police. 71. PW36 Shri Joydeep Das, Sub Divisional Controller, Food
and Supplies, Burdwan Khady Bhawan, Burdwan, West Bengal
deposed that on 23.04.2015 their department had received a
notice from the police. In response to the said notice, the then
Sub Divisional Controller, Food and Supplies namely, Shri
Jayanta Kumar Roy had issued the letter dated 23.04.2015. As
per the original ration card register from 24.11.2010 to
15.09.2011, after 01.03.2011, no ration card was issued by their
office till 19.05.2011 and therefore no ration card bearing
No.FF211736, Folio No.349 in the name of Suraj Singh could
have been issued on 27.04.2011. The copy of the relevant page of
the register is Ex.PW36/1 (OSR). During cross-examination he
denied the suggestion that he had not brought the correct record. 72. PW37 Ms. Sawmmya Swaraj, Branch Operations
Manager, Karur Vysya Bank, Janakpuri deposed that in the year

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.66 of 385
 2015 she was posted as Assistant Manager, East of Kailash
Branch, Sant Nagar, Delhi. On 18.05.2015, she had received
notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. from the police which she proved
as Ex.PW37/1. After seeing the said notice, she had given
statement of account No.4104135000003214 of Vijay Kumar
which is Ex.PW37/2. She had also handed over certificate under Section 65B Indian Evidence Act regarding the correctness and
genuineness of the said statement which she proved as
Ex.PW37/3. She was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused persons despite opportunity being given. 73. PW38 Shri Mandeep Sharma, Manager, Hotel
Vikramaditya, Indore Road, Ujjain, MP deposed that in the year
2015 he was working as Manager at Hotel Prem Palace, Madhav
Club Road, Ujjain. On 18.04.2015, he had received a notice
under Section 91 Cr.P.C from ACP Shri Manishi Chandra which
is Ex.PW38/1. On 18.04.2015, he had given the reply of the
notice which he proved as Ex.PW38/2. He had provided the
photocopy of Guest registration card dated 31.12.2014 which is
Mark PW38/A. The bills No.638 and 647 of amount Rs.1305/-
and Rs.4785/- are Ex.PW38/3 and Ex.PW38/4. He had also given
the photocopy of ID which was submitted by the customer and
the same is Mark PW38/B. He had also given certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act which he proved as
Ex.PW38/5. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons despite opportunity being given. 74. PW39 Shri Rajeev Ranjan, Nodal Officer, Tata
Teleservices Ltd. deposed that on 15.09.2015, in reference to

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.67 of 385
 letter No.7137 dated 05.09.2015, he had submitted the recharge
details of mobile No.9210439969, 9210586509, 9266121312 and
9268259500. The reply/ submission of recharge of said mobile
phones is Ex.PW39/1 and recharge details of mobile
No.9266121312 and 9268259500 are Ex.PW39/2. No recharge
details were found of mobile No.9210439969 and 9210586509.
He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons
despite opportunity being given. 75. PW40 Shri Sikander Maan deposed that in the year
2013-14 he had L-1 license in Haryana to run liquor shop. Said
L-1 license was in the name of his brother Dalbir Singh Maan. In
the month of December, 2013 they had 12 liquor shops in
Bahadurgarh. They had deputed salesmen in liquor shops of
Bahadurgarh. During the investigation of the case he was
inquired regarding the acquaintance/ knowledge about a person
by name Rajiv Kala R/o Village Asoda by him or his brother. He
told the police that they did not know any person by the name
Rajiv Kala. In December 2013, he was knowing Shri Braham
Prakash Panditji of Village Sultanpur Dabas as his nephew was
into wrestling in Chhattarsal Stadium with him. He received a
call of Shri Braham Prakash Panditji who told him that since he
had liquor shops in Bahadurgarh, one person Deepak @ Deepa
(since discharged) wanted liquor. Said Deepak @ Deepa met him
along with Rs.3 lakhs as he wanted to have liquor bottles from
their liquor shop for sending to Delhi. He refused to send liquor
bottles from Bahadurgarh to Delhi as he told him that he had got
licence of liquor shop for selling liquor only in Haryana. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.68 of 385
 Thereupon, the said Deepak @ Deepa told him that his boys
would take the liquor for taking it to Delhi, in small quantity. For
that purpose, he gave him Rs.3 lakhs. For 10-15 days during the
month of December 2013 to January 2014, boys of said Deepak
@ Deepa kept on taking boxes of liquor bottles from their liquor
shop for taking that to Delhi for total value of Rs.1.5 lakhs. He
stated that he was not aware as to for which purpose the liquor
bottles were used when the same were taken to Delhi. He had
heard the name of accused Neeraj Bawana. However, he had no
connection or concern with him. He had given his statement to
the police. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons despite opportunity being given. 76. PW41 Shri Ashish Nain deposed that he was working as
HC in Delhi Police and residing at Village and Post Jatkhor, PS
Kanjhawala, Delhi. The name of his sister is Arti who had got
married with Neeraj Sehrawat R/o Village Bawana. He joined the
investigation of the present case. He was not aware if his brother-
in-law Neeraj Sehrawat was arrested in the present case. No one
had called him in the area of Kamruddin Nagar, Nangloi. He had
stated to the IO of the present case regarding receiving of OTP on
his mobile phone regarding transfer of money but he was not
aware from whose account and into whose account the money
was transferred. 77. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination PW41 stated that the IO of the present case had

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.69 of 385
 made inquiries from him and his statement was recorded. He had
never stated in his statement given in the present case to the
effect that on 10.03.2015 maternal uncle of Neeraj Sehrawat
namely, Rambeer Shokeen called him in his office at Kamruddin
Nagar, Nangloi and that he told him that Neeraj Sehrawat was
outside and he required money for expenditure, for that purpose,
Rambeer Shokeen handed over him cash of Rs.50,500/- along
with Rs.700/- for commission agent and slip for depositing the
said amount in the name of Jasbir Singh in HDFC account No.
06851000028163. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW41/PA wherein it was so recorded. He had not stated in his
statement given in the present case that he thereafter visited in
the office of Sachin Goel at Kusumdeep Building, Azadpur
Commercial Complex, Delhi and gave him cash of Rs.50,500/-
and Rs.700/- as commission/ transaction fee. He was confronted
with the statement Ex.PW41/PA wherein it was so recorded. He
had not stated in his statement to the police that thereupon Sachin
Goel asked him his contact number and he gave him his mobile
number being 9990861654 and volunteered however, that mobile
number was correctly his. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW41/PA wherein it was so recorded. He had not stated in his
statement to the police that thereafter, Sachin Goyal transferred
the cash from his personal bank account to HDFC bank account
of Jasbir Singh. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW41/PA wherein it was so recorded. He had not made any
inquiry regarding the OTP number received in his mobile phone
as stated by him in his examination in chief. He stated that he
was aware about the procedure as well as requirement regarding

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.70 of 385
 OTP number received in the mobile phone. He denied the
suggestion that he received OTP number on his mobile phone
regarding the said transaction of depositing of money in the
account of Jasbir Singh or that he was intentionally concealing
the said fact from the Court. 78. PW41 further admitted that there were many criminal
cases against Rambeer Shokeen, who is the maternal uncle of
Neeraj Sehrawat. He admitted that he was aware that Neeraj
Sehrawat who is his brother-in-law is a known criminal of Delhi.
He had not stated in his statement to the police that since
Rambeer Shokeen and Neeraj Sehrawat were known criminals
and related to him, they could cause harm at any stage, therefore,
he had not given the evidence against them prior to recording of
his statement by the police in the present case. He was
confronted with the statement Ex.PW41/PA wherein it was so
recorded. He could not affirm or deny that his statement was
recorded in the present case on 02.05.2015. He stated that he had
never been provided any police protection after giving statement
to the police in the present case. He denied the suggestion that he
demanded for necessary protection for him and his family on
account of giving statement against the accused persons in the
present case. He was confronted with the statement Ex.PW41/PA
wherein it was so recorded. He denied the suggestion that he was
read over the contents of his statement. He stated that his sister
Arti resides in her matrimonial home in village Bawana. He
denied the suggestion that he was deposing falsely on account of
being relative of Neeraj Sehrawat being his brother-in-law or that

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.71 of 385
 he was concealing the correct facts having been won over by the
accused persons. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused persons except accused Rambeer Shokeen and during
cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer
Shokeen, PW41 admitted that he had never met the accused
Rambeer Shokeen at any point of time and had never talked with
accused Rambeer Shokeen even on phone. 79. PW42 Shri Lal Chand deposed that he had been residing
at H. No.310, Banjara Basti, Karala Road, Village Sultanpur,
Delhi. He retired from DESU in the year 1999. He had four sons
namely, Sube Singh, Subhash Singh, Captan Singh and Sahib
Singh. His son Sube Singh expired in the year 1997 because of
Cancer. His another son Subhash was handicapped because his
one hand was not functioning. His other two sons namely, Sahib
Singh and Captan Singh had been earlier plying tempo after
purchasing the same on installments for their livelihood. On
28.02.2014, his both sons were killed. He could not elaborate on
account of his age as to what happened on that day. He did not
remember as to who had killed his sons. Three assailants had
fired shots on his sons but he did not know their names. He had
not given any name to the police in the investigation of the
present matter. 80. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination PW42 stated that he was resident of Village
Sultanpur Dabas. Out of the assailants who killed his sons, two

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.72 of 385
 were from his village. He did not know the names of the said two
assailants who were from his village and volunteered in respect
to that incident, in the case which was pending in Rohini Court
also he had stated that he had not seen the said assailants. He did
not identify the real assailants in Rohini Court in respect of that
incident as he had an apprehension that the said criminals could
kill him and his other family members. He denied the suggestion
that on 28.02.2014 when his son Sahib Singh came in the tempo
at about 10 a.m. he was sitting on the chabutra (platform) outside
his house and that one white colour Skoda came from the side of
Village Puth Khurd and scratched the tempo of his son and that
on that issue boys sitting in that Skoda car started fighting with
his son Sahib Singh while having pistol in their hands. He was
confronted with the statement Ex.PW42/PA wherein it was so
recorded. 81. PW42 admitted that he had stated in his statement to the
police that among the boys from the Skoda car, two boys were
from his village namely, Rahul Kala S/o Narender Dabas and
Deepak Katia S/o Ranbir. He denied the suggestion that he had
stated to the police that the said boys Rahul Kala and Deepak
along with other boys started firing gun shots on his son and
volunteered he simply saw his son lying dead. He was confronted
with the statement Ex.PW42/PA wherein it was so recorded. He
stated that gunshots were fired on his two sons. He admitted that
after hearing the sound of gunshots, his other son namely, Captan
Singh intervened to save his brother and thereafter, those two
Rahul Kala and Deepak as well as the other boys started firing

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.73 of 385
 shots on his other son Captan Singh as well. He admitted that
when his both sons fell down on the ground due to gun fire, those
assailants still kept on firing on his sons while they were lying on
the ground. He had not complained to the police regarding the
said incident and FIR No.183/2014 was registered at PS Bawana.
He was confronted with the statement Ex.PW42/PA wherein it
was so recorded. He could not say if the name of the third
assailant who killed his sons was Ravi Mania who was arrested
in the said case. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW42/PA wherein it was so recorded. He denied having made
the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. He denied the suggestion
that he was intentionally deposing falsely being under the
pressure of the accused persons or that he was intentionally not
giving the true facts to the Court after passage of time as well as
because of pressure from the accused persons even in case FIR
No.183/2014 as well as in this case. He could not identify the
accused Rahul Kala S/o Narender Dabas, Deepak Katia and Ravi
Mania as at present he had very weak eyesight. He denied the
suggestion that he was intentionally not identifying the accused
persons. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and Pankaj Sehrawat despite opportunity
being given and during cross-examination on behalf of the other
accused persons he stated that he was not aware if the accused
Rahul Kala had already been acquitted from the Court of Rohini
in case FIR No.183/2014 and volunteered he was not aware of
anything about that case. 82. PW43 Shri Prashant Kaushik deposed that he had his

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.74 of 385
 voter identity card issued from the Election Commission on
which his photograph was there bearing number IPN2087765. He
admitted that on both the voter identity cards lying on the judicial
record, the number of his original voter identity card was
mentioned in one of the copies which was in the name of
Prashant Kaushik S/o Pramod Kaushik and photograph on the
said voter identity card was of some other person. Moreover, the
address on the overleaf was also not correct according to the
original. The said copy is Mark PX. He stated that he knew the
accused Rambeer Shokeen as he had been earlier their local
MLA. Rambeer Shokeen had never taken his voter identity card
from him at any point of time. He stated that he was not aware as
to how photograph of someone else with different address came
on the voter identity card number IPN2087765 issued in his
name. He knew the accused Neeraj Bawania who was a known
criminal. He was shown copies of voter identity card Mark PX at
page No.2062 as well as at page No.2103 and he could not say if
the photograph depicted on the voter identity card was of Neeraj
Bawania. 83. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination, PW43 stated that police had made inquiries from
him in the case but no statement was recorded. The statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C of the witness dated 19.08.2015 was
read over to him and he stated that he had never given any such
statement which is Ex.PW43/PX. He denied the suggestion that

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.75 of 385
 he had stated in his statement to the police that former MLA
Rambeer Shokeen had taken his voter identity card on the pretext
of some important work and that he stated to the police that he
was not aware as to how the copy of his voter identity card
reached the accused Neeraj Bawania. He stated that he had never
identified the photograph of accused Neeraj Bawania during the
investigation of the case. He was confronted with the contents of
the statement Ex.PW43/PX. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused persons except the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. 84. PW44 Shri Narender Singhal deposed that he had a
business of iron cutting work in the name and style of Balaji
Steel Company presently at Prahladpur, earlier it was at E-29,
DSIDC Sector-4, Bawana Industrial Area. While he was running
the said business at Bawana, on 05.02.2012 at about 2/3 p.m. he
received a call on his mobile No.9212566070. The caller of the
said call told that he was Kala from Sultanpur Majra and he
demanded a sum of Rs.10 lakhs and threatened that if he would
not give Rs.10 lakhs to him, he would kidnap his son. On that
day he was already very disturbed as his cousin had expired on
that day. Thereafter, he again received a call from the same
person by the name Kala on 06.02.2012 and he again demanded
the money and reduced it to Rs.5 lakhs. He told him that since
there was already a tragedy in his family on account of death of
his cousin, he expressed his inability to pay the amount
demanded and in that manner he avoided it. Again on 12.02.2012
the same person Kala again made a call to him and demanded

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.76 of 385
 money and threatened him again. On account of such continuous
pressure by the said caller, he reported the matter to Police
Station Bawana and got FIR No.53/2012 registered. He came to
know that certain persons had been arrested in the said case. He
stated that police had joined him in the investigation of that FIR
for the purpose of identifying the voice of the caller who
demanded money and threatened him. He thereafter never
received any threats. He had joined the investigation of the
present case when he went to the office of Special Cell at Lodhi
Road. 85. The Ld. Addl. PP for the State requested for permission to
put leading questions to the witness which was allowed and
during cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for State, PW44
admitted that he had given the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. which is Ex.PW44/PA to the police in the matter. He had
not stated in his such statement that the persons involved in his
FIR No.53/2012 were dreaded criminals and could threaten him
for not giving evidence in the Court and that he demanded
security for himself. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW44/PA. During cross-examination on behalf of the accused
Neeraj, Naveen and Rahul, he stated that he had given the
evidence in FIR No.53/2012 of PS Bawana. He could not
ascertain regarding the exact identity of the voice whether it was
of the same person who called him and demanded money and
threatened him. He denied the suggestion that no call was made
by Kala. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the other
accused persons despite opportunity being given. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.77 of 385 86. PW45 Shri Vijay Kumar deposed that he had been earlier
working as Senior Manager, Indian Bank. During the years 2012
to 2015 he was working as Senior Manager at Nangloi Branch,
Najafgarh Road of Indian Bank. He did not remember the exact
date but while he was working in the said branch of the said
bank, one person by the name Rakesh opened a saving account in
the said bank. He proved the notice issued under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to him from the police official of the present case which
bore his receipt/ acknowledgment with his initial and bank stamp
as Ex.PW45/A. He stated that in pursuance to such notice, he
provided the certified copy of account opening form, other
relevant documents pertaining to account No.605597918 in the
name of Rakesh; certified copy of statement of account of the
said account from 01.01.2013 till May 2015. The reply along
with relevant documents is collectively Ex.PW45/B. Certified
copy of statement of account is Ex.PW45/C. He stated that in
respect of the said account, once the account holder brought three
cheques of the amount which he did not remember. He also did
not remember the date due to passage of time. Those cheques
were deposited and amount of those cheques was credited in the
account. Thereafter, the said account holder Rakesh came to the
bank for withdrawing the amount which was more than Rs.10
lakhs. 87. PW45 further deposed that since he was newly posted in
the said branch of the bank, in case any customer used to seek
withdrawal of big amount, he used to verify the same as there
was non-availability of cash. He asked the said customer by

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.78 of 385
 name Rakesh to wait for withdrawing the amount as asked by
him. In the meantime, he received a call on the landline of the
bank phone. The caller of that phone told that he was calling
from the office of Rambeer who is a renowned person of that
area but he did not remember what was his complete name. That
caller told him that the said person Rakesh who was seeking to
withdraw the money was a genuine person and known to him. He
also told him to pay him the cash which he was seeking to
withdraw from the account. He did not exactly remember the
date when the money was withdrawn but it was between Rs.10 to
Rs.15 lakhs. He also did not remember if some other amount was
also withdrawn on some other date. The Ld. Addl. PP for State
sought permission to put some leading questions to the witness
which was allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Addl. PP, PW45 admitted that those three cheques which the
account holder Rakesh had deposited were of Rs.8 lakhs, Rs.5
lakhs and Rs.7 lakhs respectively, deposited in June 2013. He
admitted that the amount of the said cheques was credited in his
account on 20.06.2013. He admitted that on the same day i.e.
20.06.2013, the said account holder Rakesh sought to withdraw
Rs.20 lakhs from the account. It was possible that the caller who
made the call on the landline of the bank told his name to be
Rambeer Shokeen. He did not remember if he informed him that
he was a local Councilor, however he admitted that he named the
area Kamruddin Nagar. He admitted that on the same day i.e. on
20.06.2013, account holder Rakesh withdrew Rs.5 lakhs and
entries pertaining to such transactions are reflected in the
statement of account given by him to the police. He was not

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.79 of 385
 cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons except on
behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 88. PW46 Shri Sushil Sehrawat deposed that his father had
retired from Delhi Police. Accused Pankaj Sehrawat is his cousin
as he was the son of his uncle Prem Singh. He knew Rakesh
Babla who was also his cousin, being the son of his maternal aunt
(mausi). He did not know anything regarding the plot comprised
in Khasra No.38/24 of Village Shahbad Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar,
Delhi. He had never been told about the said plot by Pankaj
Sehrawat. He had also never visited the said plot at any point of
time. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination PW46 stated that he was called by the police during
the investigation of the case. He was not aware if police had
recorded his statement or not. He had never stated in his
statement to the police that in January, 2013 his cousin Pankaj
Sehrawat as well as Rakesh Babla met him regarding the said
plot of Khasra No.38/24 and told him that the said plot was
earlier in the name of father of Rakesh Babla late Narain Singh
and that possession of the same was encroached by someone and
Pankaj Sehrawat and Rakesh Babla had again regained the
possession of the said plot by putting their bricks on the said plot
and that they also informed him that the one who had earlier
taken the possession of the said plot was threatened in the name
of accused Neeraj Bawana due to which that party got scared and
agreed to settle with them or that he had stated the said facts in

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.80 of 385
 his statement to the police. He had not stated in his statement to
the police that Pankaj Sehrawat told him and Rakesh Babla that
since that plot was in possession of the other party, there was no
fault in going into compromise as the possession and the
electricity meter were in the name of the other party and that
Pankaj Sehrawat further told that a portion of 400 sq. yards of
that plot would be with them and portion of 200 sq. yards of that
plot would be given to the other side under the compromise and
the terms of compromise must not be lesser than the said terms.
He denied the suggestion that he had stated in his statement to
the police that Pankaj Sehrawat further told him that if the other
side did not agree with the said terms, he should be threatened to
kill and that he was also asked to accompany Rakesh Babla to go
at the time of compromise regarding the said plot. He was
confronted with the statement Ex.PW46/A wherein it was so
recorded. 89. PW46 further denied the suggestion that the next day he
accompanied Rakesh Babla for the talks of compromise
regarding the said plot where he met with one person by the
name Rakesh Chikara, who was told to be the other side/
opposite side and that he and Rakesh Babla told him that 400 sq.
yards of the plot had been taken by them and there could not be
compromise on any other term upon which the other side did not
agree on such terms, then Rakesh Babla threatened him to agree
with such terms of compromise failing which he would be killed,
and thereupon that person told that he would finalize it after
talking with the true owner of the plot. He denied the suggestion

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.81 of 385
 that he had stated to the police that the said other side agreed on
the said terms of compromise, however, he suggested that the
plot should be sold as a whole and they would get the money
consideration of 400 sq. yards and the other side would get
money sale consideration of 200 sq. yards. And such terms were
informed to Pankaj Sehrawat who stated to sell the plot as a
whole and that thereafter in February, 2013 Rakesh Babla
collected Rs.20 lakhs as earnest amount in respect of the said
plot. He denied the suggestion that he stated in his statement to
the police that in the morning of 06.06.2013, Pankaj Sehrawat
told him and Sandeep Bablu to accompany Rakesh Babla for
going to Rohini Sector -11 where the payment was to be received
regarding the sale of the said plot and that Sandeep Bablu also
told him that accused Neeraj Bawana informed him on phone
from jail to collect the payment of the said plot and that the
payment was to be handed over to his maternal uncle/ accused
Rambeer Shokeen. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW46/A wherein it was so recorded. He denied the
suggestion that he had stated to the police that the next day he
along with Sandeep Bablu, Rakesh Babla went to Nirman Group
Office, Rohini, Sector-11 where they found Subhash Pinta, his
father Bhagwan Dass, Rakesh Chikara, his father-in-law
Satyanarayan, his grandson Ved Pal present from the side of
seller and one Sanjay Rana, Joginder Thakaran, Chand Ram,
Vijay and Rakesh Dabas present from the side of the purchaser of
the plot and that Satyanarayan, Bhagwan Dass executed a GPA in
favour of Chand Ram, Vijay and Rakesh Dabas towards
executing sale documents for sale of the plot and that purchaser

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.82 of 385
 of the plot made the payment to Rajesh Bansal, out of which
Rs.60 lakhs came to Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass and
Rs.1.10 crores in cash as well as Rs.20 lakhs by three cheques
came to Rakesh Babla and that Sandeep Bablu took the cash
amount on behalf of Rakesh Babla. He was confronted with the
statement Ex.PW46/A wherein it was so recorded. 90. PW46 denied the suggestion that he had stated to the
police that thereafter, he along with Sandeep Bablu, Rakesh
Babla reached their house where they met Pankaj Sehrawat and
that Pankaj Sehrawat kept cheques of Rs.20 lakhs and Rs.1.10
crores was to be given through Sandeep Bablu to Rambeer
Shokeen for the purpose of helping him in his election and that
he had not received any amount regarding that deal and that he
stated to the police that his cousins Neeraj Bawana and Pankaj
Sehrawat had no lawful source of income and that he also told
the police that Neeraj Bawana and Pankaj Sehrawat ran a crime
syndicate and that they could harm him and his family at any
point of time and that for that reason he could be stopped from
giving evidence against them and that for that reason he asked for
his protection from the police. He was confronted with the
statement Ex.PW46/A wherein it was so recorded. He denied the
suggestion that he had been won over by the accused, therefore,
he was not deposing the correct and true facts despite having
knowledge of the same or that since he had stated in his
statement that accused Neeraj Bawana and Pankaj Sehrawat led a
dreaded crime syndicate, therefore, out of fear he was
intentionally withholding the correct facts from the Court. During

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.83 of 385
 cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer
Shokeen, he admitted that till date there was not a single instance
where he had been pressurized or threatened by the accused
Rambeer Shokeen at any point of time. During cross-examination
by the Ld. Counsel for Pankaj Sehrawat, he admitted that
evidence as he had given on that day had been so given by him
voluntarily without any pressure or coercion from anyone and
that till date there was not a single instance where he had been
pressurized or threatened by Neeraj and Pankaj. He was not
cross-examined on behalf of the other accused persons. 91. PW47 Shri Rakesh Deshwal @ Babla deposed that he
was residing at Village Jasoor Kheri, PS Bahadurgarh, Distt.
Jhajjar, Haryana with his family and he was a farmer. His
maternal aunt (mausi) was married in Bawana Village, Delhi and
had two sons namely, Sandeep @ Bablu and Sushil. Because of
his said relation, he frequently visited Village Bawana. During
his visits, he had also met once or twice with cousins of Sandeep
namely, Neeraj Sehrawat and Pankaj Sehrawat. He had never
visited any plot comprised in Khasra No.38/24 Village Shahbad,
Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi. He had never visited anywhere for
the purpose of any compromise talks regarding the said plot with
anybody. He was not aware of anything about the said plot. He
stated that no payment was ever received by him regarding the
sale of the said plot. 92. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross- State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.84 of 385
 examination, PW47 stated that his statement was never recorded
by the police. He admitted that he was called by the police during
the investigation of the case. He denied the suggestion that he
was intentionally deposing falsely regarding the recording of his
statement by the police on 27.04.2015. He had never stated in his
statement to the police that in January, 2013 Pankaj Sehrawat as
well as Rambeer Shokeen told him regarding the plot of Khasra
No.38/24 and told him that the said plot was earlier in the name
of his father and that they also gave the documents of title of that
plot in the name of his father and that then he had a belief that the
possession of that plot was taken by someone and that Pankaj
Sehrawat told him to regain the possession of that plot by putting
bricks and construction material over that plot and thereafter he
along with Pankaj Sehrawat regained the possession of the said
plot by putting bricks, construction material over that plot. He
was confronted with the statement Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so
recorded. He denied the suggestion that Pankaj Sehrawat had
arranged bricks from his known and that on the asking of Pankaj
Sehrawat he called the owner of the said plot Subhash Dhingra
@ Pinta and threatened him by saying that he was a wrestler of
Village Jasoor Kheri and that he had put bricks and construction
material over the said plot and if he would now see towards that
plot, he would face dire consequences and that on the same
phone call, Pankaj had also threatened him by saying that he was
the brother of Neeraj Bawana and that if he would now look
towards that plot, he would be killed. He denied the suggestion
that Pankaj Sehrawat told him to continue work on the plot and if
anyone came to that plot, then he should be informed about

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.85 of 385
 Neeraj Bawana and told that the said plot belonged to Neeraj
Bawana, thereupon whoever would come would get scared and
that after some days the second party Subhash Dhingra came
along with Rakesh Chikara and that he threatened them by saying
that he was the brother of Neeraj Bawana and present in that plot
on his behalf and that Rambeer Shokeen was his maternal uncle
and that he was the real owner of the plot and he should not dare
to visit there again. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so recorded. 93. PW47 denied the suggestion that he stated to the police
that when Subhash Dhingra and Rakesh Chikara wanted to see
the documents of title of that plot, he showed them those
documents and they thereafter left after taking his phone number
and that after some days Rakesh Chikara again came to that plot
and met him and offered for a compromise and that he told him
that he should come in this regard the next day and that thereafter
he on the same day met with Pankaj Sehrawat where son of his
maternal aunt Sushil Sehrawat was also present and Pankaj
Sehrawat told him that since the plot was in possession of the
other party and electricity meter was also in their name,
therefore, there was no harm in going for a compromise. He was
confronted with the statement Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so
recorded. He denied the suggestion that he stated to the police
that Pankaj Sehrawat told that under the settlement 400 sq. yards
of the plot would be in their share and 200 sq. yards would be in
the share of the other party and that compromise should not be
less than the said terms and that if the other side did not agree for

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.86 of 385
 the same, then they would be killed and Pankaj Sehrawat also
told to take Sushil Sehrawat along with them and that the next
day when Rakesh Chikara again came to the plot, then he and
Sushil Sehrawat told him about the compromise only on the
terms to the effect that 400 sq. yards of the plot would be in their
name and remaining 200 sq. yards would be in the share of the
other side and that when Rakesh Chikara tried not to agree with
such terms, then he threatened him to agree with such terms of
compromise or he would be killed and thereupon Rakesh Chikara
told that he would finalize the same after talking with the real
owner of the plot. He was confronted with the statement
Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so recorded. 94. PW47 further denied the suggestion that he had stated to
the police that later that other side told that the plot should be
sold as a whole and they would keep money sale consideration of
400 sq. yards and they would keep 200 sq. yards and that no one
would disclose about the dispute of the plot to anyone and that he
informed about the same to Pankaj Sehrawat and then Pankaj
Sehrawat agreed to sell the plot as a whole and they would leave
the possession of the plot after transfer of the title by the other
side to the purchaser and he would not sign on any other
document of sale and that he told all the said facts to Rakesh
Chikara on phone who agreed for the same as final. He denied
the suggestion that he had stated to the police that in February,
2013 in first week he received a call from Rakesh Chikara
informing that a buyer for the plot had agreed and told that he
should come to collect the payment of earnest amount and that as

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.87 of 385
 per his information, he went to Anushar Property Office, Nirman
Group, Rohini, Sector-11 where he met the property dealer
Rajesh Bansal, Subhash Pinta and Rakesh Chikara and there
were Sanjay Rana, Joginder Thakaran on behalf of the buyer and
they agreed to purchase the plot for total sale consideration of
Rs.2.20 crores and at that time the purchaser party had brought
Rs.25 lakhs in cash and Rs.5 lakhs in cheque as earnest amount
out of which the property dealer Rajesh Bansal handed over
Rs.20 lakhs as earnest amount to him and it was agreed that the
remaining sale consideration would be paid in the next four
months. He was confronted with the statement Ex.PW47/A
wherein it was so recorded. 95. PW47 denied the suggestion that he stated to the police
that on that day he came to the house of Pankaj Sehrawat with
Rs.20 lakhs and handed over the same to Pankaj Sehrawat and
that on 06.06.2013 he along with Sandeep Bablu, his elder
brother Sushil went to Nirman Group Office where Subhash
Pinta, his father Bhagwan Dass, Rakesh Chikara, his father-in-
law Satyanarayan, his grandson Ved Pal were present from the
side of seller and one Sanjay Rana, Joginder Thakaran, Chand
Ram, Vijay and Rakesh Dabas were present from the side of
purchaser of the plot and Satyanarayan, Bhagwan Dass executed
a GPA in favour of Chand Ram, Vijay and Rakesh Dabas for
executing sale documents for sale of the said plot and the
purchaser of the plot made the payment to Rajesh Bansal, out of
which Rs.60 lakhs came to Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass and
Rs.1.10 crores in cash as well as Rs.20 lakhs by three cheques

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.88 of 385
 came to him and that Sandeep Bablu took the cash amount on his
behalf. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police
that he along with Sandeep Bablu and Sushil Sehrawat went to
the house of Sandeep Bablu where they met Pankaj Sehrawat and
Pankaj kept the cheque of Rs.20 lakhs with him and instructed to
hand over Rs.1.10 crores through Bablu to his maternal uncle
Rambeer Shooken for helping in his election. He was confronted
with the statement Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so recorded. 96. PW47 denied the suggestion that he stated to the police
that when he asked Pankaj Sehrawat to give some money to him,
then he told him that his father was not the owner of the said plot
and that the documents of title in the name of his father were
fabricated and if he would demand the money, he would be
imprisoned for preparing fabricated documents and Pankaj told
him to go back to his house quietly and that because of such fear,
he left the house and burnt those documents of title and he did
not get any money and that he told the police that Neeraj and
Pankaj Bawana run a very dreaded crime syndicate and that they
could harm him and his family and therefore, they could also
prevent him from giving evidence against them in the Court. He
was confronted with the statement Ex.PW47/A wherein it was so
recorded. He denied the suggestion that he had been won over by
the accused, therefore, he was not deposing the correct and true
facts despite having knowledge of the same or that since he had
stated in his statement that accused Neeraj Bawana and Pankaj
Sehrawat led a dreaded crime syndicate, therefore, out of fear he
was intentionally withholding the correct facts from the Court. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.89 of 385
 He was cross-examined by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer
Shokeen and he admitted that till date there was not a single
instance where he had been pressurized or threatened by the
accused Rambeer Shokeen at any point of time. He stated that he
had never met with Rakesh Chikara S/o Shri Daya Nand Chikara,
R/o VPO Jaunti, Delhi. During cross-examination by the Ld.
Counsel for accused Pankaj Sehrawat he admitted that evidence
as he had given that day had been so given by him voluntarily
without any pressure or coercion from anyone or that till date
there was not a single instance where he had been pressurized or
threatened by Neeraj and Pankaj. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the other accused persons. 97. PW48 Shri Vijay Kumar deposed that he was working as
a Property Dealer. In 2013, he had invested money Rs.15 lakhs in
a plot located near Industrial Area Bawana. He had given a
cheque for the said amount in the name of one Rakesh. The
transaction had taken place in the office of Mr. Goyal at Rohini
and the deal had been got done by one Mr. Thakaran and Sanjay
Rana. A Power of Attorney was executed in his name by the
person whose name he did not remember. He also had one or two
other partners in the deal and one of them was Mr. Chand Ram,
Ex-MLA from Bawana Vidhan Sabha Constituency and he had
received the plot. He identified his photograph on the copy of
GPA dated blank executed by Shri Satyanarayan S/o Shri
Shankar Lal and Bhagwan Dass S/o Shri Khem Chand in favour
of Shri Chaudhary Chand Ram, Shri Vijay Kumar and Rakesh
Kumar but he stated that he was not certain if the signatures at

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.90 of 385
 point B were his. The GPA is Mark PW48/1. He identified his
photograph on the copy of Agreement to Sell dated 04.06.2013
executed by Shri Satyanarayan S/o Shri Shankar Lal and
Bhagwan Dass S/o Shri Khem Chand in favour of Shri
Chaudhary Chand Ram, Shri Vijay Kumar and Rakesh Kumar
but he stated that he was not certain if the signatures at point B
were his. The Agreement to Sell is Mark PW48/2. He identified
his photograph on copy of receipt dated 04.06.2013 executed by
Shri Satyanarayan S/o Shri Shankar Lal and Bhagwan Dass S/o
Shri Khem Chand in favour of Shri Chaudhary Chand Ram, Shri
Vijay Kumar and Rakesh Kumar but he stated that he was not
certain if the signatures at point B were his. The receipt is Mark
PW48/3. He was not certain if in the copy of possession letter
dated 04.06.2013 executed by Shri Satyanarayan S/o Shri
Shankar Lal and Bhagwan Dass S/o Shri Khem Chand in favour
of Shri Chaudhary Chand Ram, Shri Vijay Kumar and Rakesh
Kumar the signatures at point A were his. The possession letter is
Mark PW48/4. 98. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put
questions to the witness as he was not supporting the case of the
prosecution entirely which was allowed and during cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he stated that police had
called him and enquired from him during the investigation of the
present case and volunteered he had himself gone to the Special
Cell. The Special Cell had not recorded his statement and
volunteered they had only enquired from him. He was shown the
statement dated 27.04.2015 recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.91 of 385
 and he stated that he did not remember fully if he had given the
said statement. The statement is Mark PW48/5. He denied the
suggestion that he was deliberately stating that he did not
remember fully if he had given the statement to the police or that
he had given the said statement to the police. He had not stated to
the police that in the month of February 2013, his friends namely
Sanjay Rana and Joginder Thakaran told him that one plot of 600
square yards situated in Khasra No.38/24, Village Shahbaad
Daulat Pur, Shiv Vihar was for sale. He was confronted with
Mark PW48/5 wherein it was so stated. He had stated to the
police that Sanjay Rana and Joginder Thakaran told him that their
friends Chand Ram and Rakesh Kumar were also interested in
purchasing part of the plot. He had not stated to the police that
Sanjay Rana and Joginder Thakaran had told him that the owners
of the plot were Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass; that he had
agreed to the deal and thereafter gone to see the plot; that in the
first week of February 2013, Joginder Thakaran and Sanjay Rana
had gone to the office of Rajesh Bansal situated in Nirman
Group, Rohini Sector-11 where it was agreed from their side to
purchase the plot at the rate of Rs.37,000/- per square yard total
Rs.2.2 crores; that when the rate was being settled he was in
touch with the said two persons telephonically. He was
confronted with Mark PW48/5 wherein the said facts were
stated. 99. PW48 had not stated to the police that Sanjay Rana and
Joginder Thakaran had paid Rs.25 lakhs and Rs.5 lakhs by
cheque from his side as earnest money; that a period of 4 months

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.92 of 385
 was fixed for making the entire payment for the plot; that on
06.06.2013 from the side of the sellers Shri Satyanarayan, Shri
Bhagwan Dass, Shri Subhash @ Pinta, Rakesh Chhikara,
Ravinder and 3 other persons and from his side Sanjay Rana,
Joginder Thakaran, Rakesh Kumar, Chand Ram and himself had
gone to the office of Rajesh Bansal at Rohini to make the final
payment and volunteered he was alone when he made the
payment. He had not stated to the police that the documents in
respect of the property were prepared in the office where he,
Rakesh Kumar and Chand Ram were shown as purchaser and
Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass were shown as Sellers and
volunteered he had stated that he had gone to one office but he
could not say if it was the office of Rajesh Bansal where the
documents in respect of the property were prepared and he had
handed over two cheques and Sanjay Rana and Joginder
Thakaran were also present. He admitted that he had handed over
two cheques bearing No.000112 for Rs.7 lakhs and bearing
No.000111 for Rs.8 lakhs drawn on Karur Vyasya Bank Ltd.
Account No.4104135000003214. He had not stated to the police
that Rs.1.70 crores were given in cash or that cheque No.003792
drawn on Allahabad Bank in the name of Shri Rakesh Kumar for
Rs.5 lakhs was handed over. He was confronted with Mark
PW48/5 wherein it was so stated. He admitted that they had
asked in whose names the cheques were to be made and they
were told that they were to be made in the name of Rakesh and
they had given cheques in the name of Rakesh of different dates. 100. PW48 stated that he had not stated to the police that after

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.93 of 385
 that the other party counted the money and Satyanarayan and
Bhagwan Dass executed a GPA for 600 square yards plot in the
name of Rakesh Kumar, Chand Ram and himself and volunteered
his deal was only for Rs.24-25 lacs. He had not stated to the
police that the GPA was got notarized on 06.06.2013 by Notary
Med Singh register entry No.5969 and volunteered he had signed
the documents in the office only. He had not stated to the police
that Neeraj and Pankaj Bawana were dangerous criminals and
were running a notorious gang and they could cause harm to him
and his family or that they should be provided security. He was
confronted with Mark PW48/5 wherein it was so stated. He
denied the suggestion that he had deliberately not revealed the
correct facts or denied having stated the facts as mentioned to the
police in order to favour the accused persons as he had been won
over by the accused persons or that he had given the statement
Mark PW48/5 to the police or that the documents from 852 to
873 in the judicial file were prepared in the office of Rajesh
Bansal on the same day or that the signatures in Mark PW48/1 to
Mark PW48/4 were his or that he had deliberately denied the
same. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused
persons he stated that he was told that the plot for which the deal
was made was near Industrial Plot Bawana. He was not told the
Khasra number. 101. PW49 Shri Sanjay Rana deposed that he was doing

property work and he was also running a PG. In 2015, on date he
did not remember, he received a call from the police asking him
to come to their office. He had gone to the office at Chanakya

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.94 of 385
 Puri. The police inquired from him about the deal of a plot but he
stated that he had not got done any such deal. Police inquired
from him but no statement of his was recorded. The Ld.
Additional PP requested for permission to put questions to the
witness as he was not supporting the case of the prosecution
which was allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Additional PP, he admitted that he was called to the Special Cell,
Lodhi Road. He was shown the statement dated 27.04.2015
recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and
he stated that he had not given any such statement and the same
is Mark PW49/1. He denied the suggestion that he was
deliberately stating that he had not given the statement to the
police or that he had given the said statement to the police. He
denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that in the
month of February 2013, his friend namely Rajesh Bansal, who
was running the office in the name of Nirman Group, situated at
Sector-11 Rohini, told him that one plot of 600 square yards
situated in Khasra No.38/24, Village Shahbaad Daulat Pur, Shiv
Vihar was for sale or that he had stated to the police that he along
with his friend Joginder Thakaran went to the office of Rajesh
Bansal and talks were held regarding the sale of the said plot or
that Rajesh Bansal told them that the said plot belonged to
Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass or that he along with Joginder
Thakaran asked their friends and partners namely Chand Ram,
Vijay Kumar and Rakesh to purchase the said plot and thereafter
they had shown the said plot to them. He denied the suggestion
that he had stated to the police that the said three friends/ partners
got ready to purchase the said plot in the following shares:- 102. PW49 denied the suggestion that he had stated to the

police that in the first week of February 2013, Rajesh Bansal
called both the parties (purchasers and sellers) at his office. He
denied the suggestion that he along with Joginder Thakaran went
to the office of Rajesh Bansal on behalf of their partners/ friends
i.e. Chand Ram, Rakesh Kumar and Vijay Kumar and one
Rakesh came on behalf of Satyanarayan (owner) and one
Subhash @ Pinta along with Rakesh @ Babla came on behalf of
his father Bhagwan Dass there. He denied the suggestion that he
had stated to the police that he along with Joginder Thakaran on
behalf of the partners agreed to purchase the said plot for Rs.2.20
crores (Rs.37,000/- per sq. yds); or that he along with Joginder
Thakaran were in continuous touch with their partners through
phone regarding the said deal; or that he along with Joginder
Takaran handed over Rs.25 lakhs in cash and one cheque of Rs.5
lakhs to Rajesh Bansal as earnest money on behalf of their
partners; or that it was agreed that the whole money regarding the
plot would be deposited in four months; or that on 06.06.2013,
Satyanarayan, Bhagwan Dass, Subhash @ Pinta, Rakesh
Chikara, Ravinder and three other persons came from the side of
sellers and he along with Joginder Thakaran, Vijay Kumar,
Rakesh Kumar and Chand Ram came from the side of purchasers
and also for making the payment. He denied the suggestion that
he had stated to the police that documents regarding the plot were

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.96 of 385
 prepared and in the said documents Vijay Kumar, Rakesh Kumar,
Chand Ram were shown as purchasers and Satyanarayan along
with Bhagwan Dass were shown as sellers and on the said
documents photographs of the said five persons were pasted and
they also signed the said documents. He was shown GPA Mark
PW48/1, Agreement to Sell dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/2,
copy of receipt dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/3 and copy of
possession letter dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/4 and he stated
that the said documents were not prepared in his presence and
that he did not know anything about the said documents. He
denied the suggestion that the said documents were prepared in
his presence or that he was deliberately deposing falsely in the
said regard. 103. PW49 stated that the deed of Will dated 04.06.2013,

executed by Shri Satyanarayan was not prepared in his presence
and the same is Mark PW49/2. He stated that the deed of Will
dated 04.06.2013, executed by Shri Bhagwan Dass was not
prepared in his presence and the same is Mark PW49/3. He
stated that the indemnity bond dated 04.06.2013, executed by
Shri Satyanarayan and Shri Bhagwan Dass was not prepared in
his presence and the same is Mark PW49/4. He stated that the
affidavit cum undertaking dated 04.06.2013, executed by Shri
Satyanarayan and Shri Bhagwan Dass was not prepared in his
presence and the same is Mark PW49/5. He denied the
suggestion that the said documents were prepared in his presence
or that he had stated to the police that thereafter payment i.e.
Rs.1.70 crores in cash and three cheques i.e. cheques bearing

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.97 of 385
 No.000112 for Rs.7 lakhs and bearing No.000111 for Rs.8 lakhs
drawn on Karur Vyasya Bank Ltd. Account
No.4104135000003214 and cheque No.003792 drawn on
Allahabad Bank in the name of Shri Rakesh Kumar for Rs.5
lakhs were handed over. He stated that the said cheques were not
handed over in his presence. The said cheques are Mark PW49/6
(colly). He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police
that Rakesh Kumar and Vijay Kumar had given the said cheques
Mark PW49/6 (colly) in the name of Rakesh on asking of the
sellers; or that the said deal was finalized and said documents and
said payments were exchanged; or that the said document i.e.
GPA was notarized by Notary Medh Singh. He denied the
suggestion that he was deposing falsely as he had been won over
by the accused persons or that he had deliberately denied the
execution of the said deal and execution of the said documents
and exchange of payments. He was not cross-examined on behalf
of the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 104. PW50 Manoj Verma deposed that he was Senior Sales

Manager with HDFC Life. In 2015, he was called to the Special
Cell, Lodhi Road and he had informed the police officials that he
did not know the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. His statement was
not recorded. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to
put questions to the witness as he was not supporting the case of
the prosecution and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Additional PP, he was shown the statement dated 02.04.2015
recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and
he stated that he had not given any such statement. The statement

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.98 of 385
 is Mark PW50/1. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to
the police that he had started a job of cashier in Head Quarter "Z"
Restro-Bar, 10 DDA Market, Netaji Subhash Place, Pitampura,
Delhi in October 2009. He denied the suggestion that he had
stated to the police that in the month of October 2014 the said
Bar was on the verge of closure and he along with his friends
namely Arvind Yadav and Sukhbir Kajla took it on rent for
Rs.3.5 lakhs per month; or that the said Bar was closed in
February 2015; or that the associates of accused persons namely
Pankaj Bawania and Neeraj Bawania used to come in the said
Restro-Bar and used to enjoy without paying money to them or
that they used to give Rs.50,000/- as protection money to Pankaj
or that he was deliberately stating that he had not given the
statement to the police or that he had given the said statement to
the police. He identified the accused Neeraj produced through
VC. He stated that he had identified him as his videos came on
Facebook. He did not identify the other accused persons. The Ld.
Additional PP had pointed out towards the accused Pankaj
produced through VC and the witness stated that he did not
identify him. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused persons despite opportunity being given. 105. PW51 Insp. Vikram Dahiya deposed that in 2015-16, he

was posted as SI at Special Cell, Lodhi Colony. The investigation
of the present case was going on. ACP Manishi Chandra along
with him had arrested accused Amit Malik @ Bhura (the said
accused had already been discharged in the present case). He was
also similarly a witness to recovery of Sim Card which was

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.99 of 385
 effected at the instance of accused Gurpreet Singh (already
discharged). He had also filed a charge sheet in FIR
No.839/2015, PS Rajouri Garden in respect of Amit Malik @
Bhura and Naveen Huda @ Bhanja (already discharged). He
stated that on 03.06.2015, he was entrusted with the task of
execution of proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C. regarding the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. He had affixed the copy of the
process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. at the residential address, office
and Chopaal of the village and also in the Court and also made an
announcement where the said addresses were located. He had
recorded the statements of Jagdev Shokeen, brother of accused
Rambeer Shokeen and Narender Kadiyan. The said statements
are Mark PW51/1 (colly). A report forwarded to the ACP by
him on 04.07.2015 is Mark PW51/2. The DD entries regarding
his departure and arrival are Mark PW51/3 (colly). 106. PW51 further stated that on 27.11.2016, accused Rambeer

Shokeen was apprehended from Yuva Shakti School, Rama Vihar
and one pistol 9 mm along with two live cartridges was
recovered from his possession and the same was seized vide
seizure memo Mark PW51/4. Further, before seizure of the
weapon, a sketch of pistol and live cartridges was prepared and
the same is Mark PW51/5 and FIR No.65/16, PS Special Cell
was registered. On 01.12.2016, ACP Govind Sharma arrested the
accused Rambeer Shokeen in office of NDR Special Cell vide
arrest memo Ex.PW14/1 in the present FIR. Further, ACP Govind
Sharma also recorded the disclosure statement of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and the same is Ex.PW51/A. ACP Govind

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.100 of 385
 Sharma recorded his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. On
05.12.2016, accused Rambeer Shokeen was again interrogated
and supplementary disclosure statement was recorded by ACP
Govind Sharma and the same is Ex.PW51/B. IO ACP Govind
Sharma recorded his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Further,
on 07.04.2015, accused Neeraj Bawania along with accused
Rashid @ Guddu was apprehended from Mundka underpass, on
Karala Mundka Road and illegal weapons were recovered from
the possession of both the accused persons by their team
members including him. At the time of apprehension, they were
travelling in a White Verna Car but he did not remember the
registration number and there was a brief exchange of fire at the
time of their apprehension. The said documents were not part of
the charge sheet. He identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen and
Neeraj produced through VC. During cross-examination by the
Ld. Counsel for accused persons other than the accused Rambeer
Shokeen, PW51 denied the suggestion that the accused Neeraj
did not make any disclosure statement. 107. PW52 Shri Joginder Thakaran deposed that he was

doing the work of agricultural property. In 2015 or 2016 on date
he did not remember, he had received a call from the police
officials asking him to come to their office. He had gone to the
office which was a police station but he did not remember the
place. The police inquired from him about a plot in Shahbad
Village but he stated that he had no knowledge about the same.
Police inquired from him but no statement of his was recorded.
The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put questions

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.101 of 385
 to the witness as he was not supporting the case of the
prosecution which was allowed and during cross-examination by
the Ld. Additional PP, he was shown the statement dated
27.04.2015 recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and he stated that he had not given any such statement.
The statement is Mark PW52/1. He denied the suggestion that
he was deliberately stating that he had not given the statement to
the police or that he had given the said statement to the police.
His testimony was to the same effect as that of PW49. He denied
the suggestion that he was deposing falsely as he had been won
over by the accused persons or that he was not deliberately
telling the address of Special Cell where his statement was
recorded by the IO or that he had deliberately denied the
execution of the deal and execution of the documents and
exchange of payments. He was not cross-examined on behalf of
the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 108. PW53 Shri Sandeep Gaba deposed that he had business

of iron. He knew nothing about the present case. Police had
called him for inquiry on date he did not remember but he had
come back as he did not know anything. The Ld. Additional PP
requested for permission to put questions to the witness as he was
not telling the truth which was allowed and during cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he was shown the
statement dated 10.05.2015 recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and he stated that he had not given any
such statement. The statement is Mark PW53/1. He denied the
suggestion that he was deliberately stating that he had not given

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.102 of 385
 the statement to the police or that he had given the said statement
to the police. He denied the suggestion that before November
2014, he used to run a book shop and one Kabadi shop in
Subhash Nagar area to earn money and volunteered he had a steel
plant. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police
that a local criminal and a local financer namely Gurpreet Singh
resident of Mahavir Nagar came to his house in November 2014
and took him to one factory situated in Village Kamruddin Nagar
area; or that the said Gurpreet Singh introduced him to gangster
Neeraj Bawania who was present there with his associates
Naveen Huda @ Bhanja and others or that the said Gurpreet
threatened him to pay Rs.50,000/- per month as protection money
to Neeraj Bawania or face dire consequences or that the accused
Neeraj Bawania also showed his pistol to him and also fired from
the pistol on the wall of the factory and he got scared due to the
same and thereafter he started paying Rs.50,000/- as protection
money. 109. PW53 further denied the suggestion that Neeraj Bawania

along with Gurpreet also asked him to help Gurpreet in
identifying the business/ bookies who could pay extortion/
protection money for the gang of Neeraj Bawania or that the
accused Gurpreet Singh used to take protection money in the last
week of every month or that Gurpreet Singh, Neeraj Bawania and
their associates had threatened him and extorted over Rs.2 lakhs
on different occasions or that in the month of January 2015,
accused Neeraj Bawania and Rambeer Shokeen, Ex- MLA
Mundka had also called him to their office at Village Kamruddin

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.103 of 385
 Nagar, Delhi and extorted Rs.5 lakhs from him for the assembly
elections of 2015 and also used his car for campaigning purpose
during the assembly elections of 2015. He denied the suggestion
that he was not deliberately telling the address of Special Cell
where his statement was recorded by the IO. He did not identify
any of the accused persons. The Ld. Additional PP pointed out
towards the accused Rambeer Shokeen and accused Neeraj
Bawania who had been produced through VC but the witness
stated that he did not identify them. He denied the suggestion that
he was deliberately not identifying the accused persons as he had
been won over by them. He was not cross-examined on behalf of
the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 110. PW54 Shri Mukesh Agarwal deposed that earlier he was

selling mobiles. Around 4-5 years prior, two persons had come to
him at his shop 44, Free School Street, Calcutta-16 to purchase a
mobile and they purchased one Blackberry phone and the make
of the other phone he did not remember. He had not taken any
document from them. He was shown a photocopy of the bill in
the name of Vikas and he identified the same as the bill which
was issued against purchase of one mobile make INTEX. The
attested copy of the same is Mark PW54/1. After sometime
police officials had come and inquired from him and he checked
from the CCTV footage and told them who had come to purchase
the mobile. The CCTV footage was also handed over to the
police (no such CCTV footage is on record). Again said, it was
possible that he did not hand over the CCTV footage and he had
done the recording and kept with himself. After sometime police

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.104 of 385
 had brought one person to his shop and asked him if he had
purchased the mobile from him. He had identified the said person
at that time as the matter was not very old. He stated that could
not identify the said person at present as long time had lapsed. He
was shown the accused persons through video conferencing and
he stated that he was not certain if the said person was amongst
the accused and the said person was fair, bald and strong. The Ld.
Additional PP had pointed out towards Neeraj Bawana but the
witness stated that he was not certain if he was the same person. 111. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put

some questions to the witness which was allowed and during
cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP, PW54 denied the
suggestion that he was deliberately not identifying the accused
Neeraj Bawana as he had been won over by him. He admitted
that police had given him a notice under Section 160 and 91 Cr.P.C., copy of which is Mark PW54/2. His reply to the same is
Ex.PW54/A. He admitted that the said persons had come to his
shop twice i.e. on 06.03.2015 and 11.03.2015. He admitted that
one of the persons who called himself Vikas had sold a mobile
make LG Nexus 6 to him and in exchange of the same, second-
hand mobile make LG G-3 was given to Vikas. He admitted that
he had handed over the copy of the register to the police showing
sale of both the mobile phones i.e. one Blackberry Mobile phone
on 06.03.2015 and on 11.03.2015 regarding the LG phones. Copy
of the register is Mark PW54/3 (colly) and the entries are at
point X and Y. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.105 of 385 112. PW55 Shri Rakesh Kumar deposed that he was a

Contractor. Around 10-12 years prior, he was called by the police
to the office of Special Staff at Janak Puri. His name and other
particulars were asked and then he was sent back. No inquiry was
done from him nor his statement was recorded. The Ld.
Additional PP requested for permission to cross-examine the
witness as he was not supporting the case of the prosecution
which was allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Additional PP, he was shown the statement dated 27.04.2015
recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and
he stated that he had not given any such statement. The statement
is Mark PW55/1. He denied the suggestion that he was
deliberately stating that he had not given the statement to the
police or that he had given the said statement to the police or that
he had stated to the police that in February 2013, his two old
friends, who were property dealers, namely Sanjay Rana and
Joginder Thakaran told him that one plot of 600 sq. yrds i.e.
Khasra No.38/24, Village Shahbad Daulat Pur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi
was for sale and volunteered, his friends had told him about a
plot in Bawana Industrial Area and there were talks regarding the
same in the office of Rajesh Bansal and he had given a blank
cheque of Rs.5 lakhs to Rajesh Bansal. He denied the suggestion
that Sanjay Rana and Joginder Thakaran told him that
Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass were the owners of the said
plot or that Sanjay Rana and Joginder Thakaran also asked him to
purchase some part of the said plot in partnership with Vijay
Kumar and Chand Ram or that thereafter he along with Vijay and
Chand Ram visited the said plot for the purpose of purchasing it

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.106 of 385
 or that he agreed to purchase 20% part of the said plot and Chand
Ram and Vijay agreed to purchase 20% and 60% part of the plot
respectively. His further testimony was to the same effect as that
of PW49. 113. PW55 was shown GPA Mark PW48/1, Agreement to Sell

dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/2, copy of receipt dated
04.06.2013 Mark PW48/3 and copy of possession letter dated
04.06.2013 Mark PW48/4 and he stated that the said documents
were not prepared in his presence and that he did not know
anything about the said documents and his signatures and photos
were not there on the said documents. The Ld. Additional PP had
pointed to signatures at point X on every page and he denied that
the same were his signatures. The Ld. Additional PP had pointed
to the photograph at point X1 and he denied the same as being
his photograph. He denied the suggestion that the said documents
were prepared in his presence or that he was deliberately
deposing falsely in the said regard or that he was deliberately
denying his signatures and photographs on the said documents.
He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that
thereafter payment i.e. Rs.1.70 crores in cash and three cheques
i.e. cheque bearing No.000112 for Rs.7 lakhs and bearing
No.000111 for Rs.8 lakhs drawn on Karur Vyasya Bank Ltd.
Account No.4104135000003214 and cheque No.003792 drawn
on Allahabad Bank in the name of Shri Rakesh Kumar for Rs.5
lakhs were handed over. He identified his signatures at point A on
the same and volunteered the cheque bearing No.003792
belonged to him but the same was blank and nothing was written

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.107 of 385
 on it. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons despite opportunity being given. 114. PW56 Shri Chand Ram deposed that he was an Ex-MLA

and remained MLA from 1993-1998 on the ticket of BJP. Around
3-4 years prior, he was called by the police to the office of Crime
Branch at place he did not remember. No inquiry was done from
him nor his statement was recorded. The Ld. Additional PP
requested for permission to cross-examine the witness as he was
not supporting the case of the prosecution which was allowed
and during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he was
shown the statement dated 27.04.2015 recorded by ACP Manishi
Chandra under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and he stated that he had not
given any such statement. The statement is Mark PW56/1. He
denied the suggestion that he was deliberately stating that he had
not given the statement to the police or that he had given the said
statement to the police. He denied the suggestion that he had
stated to the police that in February 2013, his two old friends,
who were property dealers, namely Sanjay Rana and Joginder
Thakaran told him that one plot of 600 sq. yrds i.e. Khasra
No.38/24, Village Shahbad Daulat Pur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi was for
sale and volunteered Joginder Thakaran was his friend-cum-Party
worker but Sanjay Rana was not known to him. On date he did
not remember Joginder Thakaran had called him on phone and
told him about a plot the particulars of which he did not
remember and which he had never seen and told him to purchase
it but he told him that he did not want to purchase it. He told him
that he could make his office there. He asked him how much he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.108 of 385
 would have to pay and he stated that about Rs.5 lakhs would
come to his share which he would have to pay by cheque. He told
him that at that time he did not have that much money and
someone should pay on his behalf and he would return the money
in installments. One Rajesh told him that he was getting the plot
sold and he asked him to give the cheque. He did not give any
cheque or cash and if any friend gave, he could not say who had
given but a cheque of Rs.5 lakhs was handed over on his behalf.
He was asked to give 3-4 photos and he handed over the same.
Similar suggestions were put to him as put to PW49 and PW55
which he denied. He was confronted with the statement Mark
PW56/1 wherein all the said facts were stated. 115. PW56 was shown GPA Mark PW48/1, Agreement to Sell

dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/2, copy of receipt dated
04.06.2013 Mark PW48/3 and copy of possession letter dated
04.06.2013 Mark PW48/4 and he stated that the said documents
were prepared in his presence. He identified his signatures on
point Y on every page on the said documents and his photographs
at point Y1 on the said documents. He identified his signatures
on the deed of Will dated 04.06.2013, executed by Shri
Satyanarayan, which is Mark PW49/2 at point Y on every page
stating it to be a true copy as also on the deed of Will dated
04.06.2013, executed by Shri Bhagwan Dass which is Mark
PW49/3 and on indemnity bond dated 04.06.2013, executed by
Shri Satyanarayan and Shri Bhagwan Dass, which is Mark
PW49/4 and on affidavit cum undertaking dated 04.06.2013,
executed by Shri Satyanarayan and Shri Bhagwan Dass which is

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.109 of 385
 Mark PW49/5. He stated that the cheques Mark PW49/6 (colly)
were not handed over in his presence. Further, similar
suggestions were put to him as to PW49 and PW55 which he
denied. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused
persons except on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
despite opportunity being given and during cross-examination by
the Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW56 could
not tell the amounts but all the concerned persons had given
cheques. He had not written the words 'True Copy' above his
signature and the words 'Chand Ram' below his signatures on the
documents and volunteered the same were written by Rajesh. He
stated that he got possession of his share of the plot. 116. PW57 Dr. Dinesh Modi deposed that he ran a small

Nursing Home by the name Sant Soham Hospital at Bawana,
Delhi-110039. In the year he did not remember, he received a
ransom call on his mobile bearing No.9212126388. A demand of
Rs.25 lakhs was made. It was a computerized number from
which the call was received. No threat was made. He ignored the
same. He made a complaint to the police on which FIR was
registered and to his knowledge no one was arrested in the said
FIR. He was shown certified copy of FIR No.179/2012 PS
Bawana and he stated that the said FIR was lodged on the
complaint made by him. Certified copy of the charge-sheet
including the FIR is Ex.PW57/A (pages 1741 to 1767). The Ld.
Additional PP requested for permission to cross-examine the
witness as he was not fully supporting the case of the prosecution
which was allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld.

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.110 of 385
 Additional PP, he admitted that he was called to the office of
Special Cell NDR, Lodhi Colony and ACP Manishi Chandra
recorded his statement in FIR No.10/2015. He was shown his
statement dated 19.08.2015 recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
and he denied having made the said statement to the police. The
statement is Mark PW57/1. He admitted that he had stated to the
police that on 23.05.2012 two persons had come in his OPD
chamber and pointed a gun towards him. He admitted that they
threatened him but he denied the suggestion that they threatened
him in the name of Neeraj Bawania. He was confronted with
Mark PW57/1. He denied the suggestion that he had deliberately
denied that he was threatened in the name of Neeraj Bawania as
he had been won over by him. He admitted that they demanded
extortion money of Rs.25 lakhs and also demanded to give the
permanent possession of Chemist Shop in the New Building. He
admitted that on the same day HC Joginder from PS Bawana had
come to the clinic and he requested him for help and told him
about the incident. He admitted that he advised him to meet ACP
Kanjhawala or that on the next day he met ACP Kanjhawala but
he did not give any complaint. 117. PW57 further admitted that on 26.05.2012, he again

received a threatening call on which he gave a complaint and FIR
No.179/2012 was registered. He denied the suggestion that he
had stated to the police that Rahul Kala and Deepak @ Deepa
had come to his clinic. He was confronted with Mark PW57/1
wherein it was so stated. He admitted that during investigation he
had identified accused Rahul Kala in Tihar and volunteered he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.111 of 385
 was prompted. He denied the suggestion that he was deposing
falsely that he was prompted to identify the accused Rahul Kala
as he had been won over by the accused persons regarding the
said fact. He did not identify any accused. The Ld. Additional PP
had pointed towards the accused Rahul Kala who had been
produced through VC but he stated that he did not identify him.
He denied the suggestion that he was deliberately not identifying
the accused Rahul Kala as he had been won over by him. He was
not cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 118. PW58 Shri Lalit Mathur deposed that he was a

contractor by profession and did civil contracts for the
government. He did not know anything about the present case.
He stated that Lodhi Colony Police had called him many years
back and had enquired from him. He did not remember what he
had told them. He did not remember if police had recorded his
statement. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to
cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination he was shown his statement dated 27.04.2015
recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and he stated that he did not
remember if he had made the said statement to the police. The
said statement is Mark PW58/1. He denied the suggestion that
he was intentionally denying the fact of recording of statement
dated 27.04.2015 as he had been won over by the accused
persons. He stated that he was running a tile manufacturing
factory in Majari Village. He admitted that he was having mobile
No.9958900845 in 2015. He admitted that on 21.02.2015, when

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.112 of 385
 he was at his flat at Rohini, he had received a call on his said
mobile number and the caller had asked him if he had bulb
factory in Majra. He admitted that he told the caller that he ran a
tile factory and not a bulb factory. He did not remember if the
said person had stated his name to be Bali and volunteered he
had received a threat but he did not remember the name. He did
not remember if he had stated that he was the brother of Neeraj
Bawana, who is a desperate and wanted criminal of Delhi or that
if he had demanded Rs.50 lakhs from him or that he told him that
he would not give the amount or that thereafter he threatened to
kill him through his associates in a few days. He denied the
suggestion that he was deliberately stating that he did not
remember the said facts as he had been won over by the accused
persons or that he had stated the said facts to the police. He
admitted that he had disconnected the phone thereafter and
during the night he received two threatening calls and
volunteered he did not pick the calls. He denied the suggestion
that he had stated to the IO that he had picked the calls and the
caller threatened him to pay the money or he would kill him. He
was confronted with Mark PW58/1 wherein it was so stated. 119. PW58 admitted that he received another threatening call

during the day time but he did not remember the name of the
caller. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the IO that
the caller was Naveen Bali or that he asked him to pay or that
when he refused to pay the money he told him that it appeared
that he was not interested in running the factory or that he
threatened him that he would shoot him in the head and he would

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.113 of 385
 not allow him to sit in the factory. He was confronted with Mark
PW58/1 wherein it was so stated. He admitted that he had lodged
FIR in PS Samaypur Badli on 24.02.2015 but he did not
remember the FIR number. He could not say if the FIR number
was 246/2015. He had not stated to the police that later on
Naveen Bali and his associates were arrested in the said FIR. He
was confronted with Mark PW58/1 wherein it was so stated. He
was not cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen despite opportunity being given. 120. PW59 Shri Anoop Singh deposed that he is a farmer. In

January, 2015 he had received a call from Naveen Bali on his
mobile, the number of which he did not remember. He also did
not remember the number from which the call was made. He had
made a recording of the call by Bali. He stated that 13 of them
jointly owned a 400 square yards plot at Prahladpur. The accused
Naveen had got his Mami namely Snehlata to take possession of
the said plot. They had filed a Civil Suit in respect of the same
which was pending in the Rohini Court. He told him that he was
Naveen Bali calling from Tihar Jail and asked him if he knew
him. He told him that he did not know him. He stated that he also
owned 1000 square yards of agricultural land in Village
Prahladpur. The accused Naveen Bali asked him to vacate the
said plot otherwise he would kill him and he told him what he
would do with the plot if he was not alive. He made a complaint
at PS Shahbad Dairy on which the FIR was registered. He was
shown copy of FIR No.94/2015 PS Shahbad Dairy and the
contents of the FIR were read over to the witness and he stated

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.114 of 385
 that it was the same FIR which he had got lodged. The same is
Mark PW59/1. The case was sent to Special Cell. The recording
that he had done was also handed over to Special Cell. He stated
that the said case was still pending. He stated that he could not
identify Naveen Bali as he had never seen him. The Special Cell
at Lodhi Road had also called him for inquiry. 121. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put

questions to the witness as he was not fully supporting the case
of the prosecution which was allowed and during cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP, PW59 did not remember if
the number from which Naveen Bali had called him on
23.01.2015 was 8510005137. He admitted that Special Cell,
Lodhi Road had recorded his statement but he denied having
made the same. The said statement is Mark PW59/2. He denied
the suggestion that he was deliberately denying the statement
Mark PW59/2 to the police as he had been won over by the
accused persons or that on 24.01.2015, he had received a call
from mobile number 9711555592 of Deepa Pehlwan who had
threatened him to kill him if he did not vacate the plot of 1000
square yards. He denied the suggestion that he was deliberately
denying having stated the same to the police or that he had stated
to the police that Naveen Bali and Deepa Pehlwan were members
of Neeraj Bawania Gang or that they wanted to take possession
of his plot after threatening him and volunteered he had only
stated about the call by Naveen Bali. He was confronted with
Mark PW59/2 wherein it was so stated. He denied the
suggestion that he had denied the factum regarding Deepa

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.115 of 385
 Pehlwan as he had been threatened by him. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite
opportunity being given. 122. PW60 Shri Gurmeet Singh Sabarwal @ Meeta deposed

that earlier he was doing work of Tour & Travels and at present
he was running a small restaurant. Gurpreet was the nephew of
his friend Sukhbinder Singh. Gurpreet used to come to the house
of Sukhbinder Singh and he also used to go to his house. He
became friends with Gurpreet who was his age. They used to
meet often. He did not know anything else about the case. He
stated that police had called him for enquiry in the present case in
2015 at Lodhi Road. Police had recorded his statement and
volunteered he had only told and the statement was recorded by
police officials themselves. He was shown his statement which is
Ex.PW60/A and he stated that some part of the statement was
made by him but the part regarding the amount was not stated by
him. 123. The Ld. Addl. PP for State requested for permission to

cross-examine the witness as he was stated to be resiling from his
earlier statement which was allowed and during cross-
examination he stated that he had stated to the police that he was
in regular touch with Gurpreet and used to keep meeting in the
house of his Maternal-Uncle Pappi at Vishnu Garden, Delhi. He
had not stated to the police that in the last week of October 2014,
Gurpreet called him and volunteered he had stated that Gurpreet
called him and asked him where he was and he stated that he was
at Hari Nagar on which he came there with three other persons

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.116 of 385
 and introduced only Neeraj Bawania to him. He was confronted
with Ex.PW60/A wherein he had stated about Gurpreet
introducing him to dreaded criminals Neeraj Bawania and
Naveen Bhanja. He denied the suggestion that he was
deliberately not stating about being introduced to Naveen Bhanja
as he had been won over by him or that he had stated to the
police that Gurpreet asked him to give them protection money
and assured him that no one would disturb him in his illegal
betting business and volunteered he did not have any such betting
business. He had stated to the police that he had heard of Neeraj
Bawania as a dreaded rewarded gangster of Delhi. He had not
stated to the police that Naveen Bhanja was his main associate or
that due to fear he agreed to pay them Rs.20,000/- per month as
protection money. He was confronted with Ex.PW60/A. He
admitted that he had stated to the police that after around 10 days
of the meeting, in the first week of November, 2014, he got a call
from Naveen Bhanja and he asked him to give Rs.1 lakh as
protection money within one month and that he told him that he
could only afford the pre-decided amount of Rs.20,000/- per
month but Naveen Bhanja told him that he would kill him if the
protection money of Rs.1 lakh was not paid and volunteered he
did not pay the amount and Naveen Bhanja had told him that his
wife was pregnant and he needed the money on which he told
him that if he needed Rs.10 to 20 thousand he could take the
same from him and there was no talk of any amount being paid
per month. He denied the suggestion that he was stating falsely to
the said effect. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.117 of 385 124. PW60 had not stated to the police that out of fear he told

Gurpreet about the extortion call of Naveen Bhanja on which he
told him that he would talk to Neeraj Bawania to reduce the
amount and volunteered he had stated that he told Gurpreet about
the call and he stated that he would talk to Neeraj Bawania and
he would not get any other call. He had not stated to the police
that Gurpreet talked to Neeraj Bawania and finally they agreed to
receive Rs.50,000/- or that he paid the said amount to Neeraj
Bawania through Gurpreet Singh or that thereafter he continued
paying Rs.20,000/- per month to Neeraj Bawania till February
2015, that is upto the arrest of accused Neeraj Bawania's brother
Pankaj Bawania by Special Cell or that he had paid Rs.1.10 lakhs
to gangster Neeraj Bawania through Gurpreet Singh due to fear
of life to grant illegal book betting. He was confronted with
Ex.PW60/A and volunteered he was not aware whether Gurpreet
talked to Neeraj Bawania or not but he stopped receiving the
calls and he had not paid any amount to anyone. He had not
stated to the police that the accused Neeraj Bawania and his gang
members are desperate criminals of Delhi and other States and
they may harm him and his family members anywhere and even
in Court if called for evidence in the case. He was confronted
with Ex.PW60/A. He stated that he could not identify the
accused Neeraj even if shown to him. He denied the suggestion
that he was deliberately refusing to identify the accused Neeraj as
he had been won over by him. PW60 was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity
being given. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.118 of 385 125. PW61 Shri Anoop Singh @ Bittoo Bolder deposed that

he runs a restaurant Pooran Singh Ambalewala at Mayapuri and
his son Sukwinder Singh Raja does the work of selling car
accessories. He stated that he did not know anything about the
present case. Police had called him for inquiry on date he did not
remember but when Gurpreet had been arrested. He knew
Gurpreet as he used to reside in his Mohalla. Police had called
him to Lodhi Colony Cell. Police had made enquiry from him
and recorded his statement. He was shown his statement and he
stated that he had not given such a long statement and he was
only asked if he knew Gurpreet to which he stated yes and he
was asked to sign some papers. The statement is Mark PW61/1. 126. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to cross- examine the witness as he was not supporting the case of the
prosecution which was allowed and during cross-examination by
the Ld. Additional PP, PW61 stated that he had stated to the
police that Gurpreet Singh was a desperate criminal of their area
and volunteered he used to indulge in fighting. He admitted that
he had stated to the police that in 2014 he used to do betting with
the friends of his circle. He admitted that he had stated to the
police that in November 2014 Gurpreet had come to his
restaurant and volunteered he used to keep coming. He had not
stated to the police that Gurpreet had introduced him to Pankaj
Sherawat who is the brother of another dangerous criminal
Neeraj Bawania or that they had asked him to pay protection
money of Rs.50,000/- per month or that the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat had shown him a pistol. He was confronted with Mark

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.119 of 385
 PW61/1. He had stated to the police that he had heard about
Neeraj Bawania. He had not stated to the police that on seeing
the brother of Neeraj i.e. Pankaj in front of him, he got scared or
that they told him to give Rs.50,000/- per month as protection
money or that out of fear for his life he used to give protection
money to Gurpreet Singh in the last week of every month. He
had not stated to the police that the accused Gurpreet Singh,
Neeraj Bawania and his friends had on the threat of life taken
around Rs.2 lakhs from him or that the accused Neeraj Bawania
and his associates are dreaded criminals of Delhi and other States
and to stop him from giving evidence, they could cause harm to
him and his family anywhere and in the Court. He was
confronted with Mark PW61/1. He did not identify the accused
produced through VC. The Ld. Additional PP had pointed
towards Pankaj Sehrawat who had been produced through VC
and he stated that he did not identify him. He denied the
suggestion that the accused Pankaj Sehrawat was the same
person who had visited his restaurant along with Gurpreet Singh
in November 2014 and he was intentionally not identifying him
as he had been won over by him. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity
being given and during cross examination by the Ld. Counsel for
the other accused persons, he stated that he had heard about
Neeraj from Gurpreet and volunteered he had never seen him. 127. PW62 Insp. Pramod Chauhan deposed that on
07.04.2015, he was posted as SI at PS Special Cell, Lodhi
Colony. He was handed over investigation of case FIR

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.120 of 385
 No.30/2015 PS Special Cell. He arrested the accused Neeraj
Bawania and accused Rashid in the said case. He had received
the documents regarding stay of Neeraj Bawania in Mumbai vide
seizure memo photocopy of which is Mark PW62/1 which were
seized by SI Shiv Raj Rawat from Mumbai. In the said case, SI
Sohan Lal recovered one AK-47 and SLR which were robbed by
the accused Neeraj Bawania and were recovered at the instance
of Neeraj Bawania from near Vijay Colony Mundka on
09.04.2015. Photocopy of the seizure memo is Mark PW62/2.
He had handed over the photocopies of the seizure memos to the
IO of the present case. After investigation, he filed the charge
sheet in case FIR No.30/2015 PS Special Cell in which the
accused Neeraj Bawania was sentenced to 7 years imprisonment
after trial. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for
accused persons, he denied the suggestion that the accused
Neeraj did not make any disclosure statement and all documents
collected qua the accused Neeraj were manipulated. He stated
that there was no other accused apart from Neeraj and Rashid in
case FIR No.30/2015. Accused Rambeer Shokeen had no relation
whatsoever with FIR No.30/2015. 128. PW63 Insp. Kuldeep Bhoriya deposed that on
16.03.2015, he was posted at Special Cell, Northern Range. On
that day, in FIR No.94/2015 PS Shahbad Dairy, he had arrested
Naveen Dabas @ Bali s/o Narender Singh r/o Village Sultanpur
Dabas, Delhi from Patiala House Court premises. He recorded
his disclosure statement in which he had stated that he had
another associate Deepak Dabas @ Deepa and along with him he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.121 of 385
 had committed the offence of FIR No.94/2015. Photocopy of the
disclosure statement of accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali is Mark
PW63/1. Copy of FIR is Mark PW63/2. During the course of
investigation, the full identity of Deepak Dabas @ Deepa was
disclosed and that he was the son of late Shri Ved Pal r/o Village
Sultanpur Dabas, Delhi. On 10.07.2015, from Village Sultanpur
Dabas, he arrested Deepak Dabas @ Deepa. Photocopy of his
arrest memo is Mark PW63/3. He recorded the disclosure
statement of Deepak Dabas @ Deepa, which is Mark PW63/4.
He had filed the charge sheet in the said case after completing
investigation and the same was pending trial. He handed over
copies of arrest related documents of the said persons to the IO of
the present case. He identified the accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali
produced through VC. 129. PW64 Insp. Ravinder Kumar Tyagi deposed that on

14.03.2015, he was posted as SI at Special Cell, NDR, Lodhi
Colony, New Delhi. On that day, he along with ACP Satyaveer
Singh Dagar joined the investigation of the present case. On that
day, accused Pankaj along with his mother was apprehended by
the CISF staff at Domestic Airport, Delhi. Two live cartridges
and one magazine were seized by the CISF staff from them. The
IO of PS Domestic Airport had arrested the mother of the
accused under Arms Act and accused Pankaj under Section 41.1 Cr.P.C . On that day, accused Pankaj was arrested by the IO ACP
Satyaveer Singh Dagar in the present case and his disclosure
statement was recorded. Arrest memo of accused Pankaj
Sehrawat is Ex.PW64/A. Disclosure statement of the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.122 of 385
 was recorded which is Ex.PW64/B. On 26.03.2015, 28.03.2015,
09.04.2015, 12.04.2015 accused Pankaj was interrogated by
ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present case and his disclosure
statements were recorded, which are Ex.PW64/C, Ex.PW64/D,
Ex.PW64/E, Ex.PW64/F respectively. The accused had
disclosed that he had purchased a Scorpio Car bearing No.DL
10CT 0917 from extortion amount and he along with his brother
was using the said car for running syndicate activities. He stated
that he had parked the said vehicle in a plot in his village and that
he could get the same recovered. He along with ACP Manishi
Chandra along with other staff went to Village Bawana and at the
instance of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat, Scorpio Car No.DL
10CT 0917 was recovered and seized vide seizure memo
Ex.PW64/G. The documents of the car i.e. copy of RC, Delivery
Receipt of the Scorpio, detailed invoice dated 26.06.2014 of the
Scorpio and receipt dated 30.06.2014 of Rs.91,174/- were also
found in the car and the same were seized vide seizure memo
Ex.PW64/G. The said documents are Ex.PW64/H (colly) and the
copy of the RC is Mark PW64/1. 130. PW64 further deposed that on 10.04.2015, accused Sunil

Rathi had appeared before MCOCA Court at Patiala House
Courts on production warrants. After taking permission from the
Court, he was interrogated and interrogation memo was prepared,
which is Ex.PW64/I. The IO arrested the accused Sunil Rathi in
the present case vide arrest memo Ex.PW64/J. On 18.04.2015,
29.04.2015 and 05.05.2015 accused Sunil Rathi was again
interrogated by ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present case and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.123 of 385
 his disclosure statements were recorded, which are Ex.PW64/K,
Ex.PW64/L, Ex.PW64/M respectively. On 10.04.2015, accused
Neeraj was running on PC remand in FIR No.30/2015 PS Special
Cell, Delhi. On that day, accused Neeraj was interrogated by
ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in this case and arrested vide arrest
memo Ex.PW64/N. His disclosure statement was recorded which
is Ex.PW64/O. On 29.04.2015, 06.05.2015 and 07.05.2015
accused Neeraj was again interrogated by ACP/IO Manishi
Chandra in the present case and his disclosure statements were
recorded, which are Ex.PW64/P, Ex.PW64/Q and Ex.PW64/R
respectively. On 23.04.2015, accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali and
Rahul Dabas @ Kala were produced on production warrants
before the MCOCA Court at Patiala House. ACP/IO Satyaveer
Singh Dagar interrogated both the accused persons and prepared
their interrogation memos which are Ex.PW64/S and
Ex.PW64/T respectively. They were arrested in the present case
and their arrest memos are Ex.PW64/U and Ex.PW64/V
respectively. On 10.05.2015, accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali was
interrogated by ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present case and
his disclosure statement was recorded, which is Ex.PW64/W. On
10.05.2015, accused Rahul Dabas @ Kala was interrogated by
ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present case and his disclosure
statement was recorded which is Ex.PW64/X. 131. PW64 deposed that on 28.04.2015, accused Gurpreet

Singh was arrested by ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present
case in the office of Special Cell vide his arrest memo
Ex.PW64/Y. His disclosure statement was recorded which is

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.124 of 385
 Ex.PW64/Z. On 14.05.2015, accused Gurpreet Singh was again
interrogated by ACP/IO Manishi Chandra in the present case and
his disclosure statement was recorded which is Ex.PW64/Z1. On
14.05.2015, ACP/IO Manishi Chandra had prepared the
transcript of two calls of accused Gurpreet Singh made to Teena
on 28.11.2014 and another with Guddu on 07.12.2014. The said
transcripts are Ex.PW64/Z2. On 29.06.2015, 07.07.2015 and
04.12.2015 specimen handwritings of the accused Neeraj were
obtained before MCOCA Court at Patiala House, which are part
of Ex.PW35/1 to Ex.PW35/6 (colly) bearing his signatures at
point A on each page. He identified the accused Naveen Dabas @
Bali and the accused Neeraj Sehrawat produced through VC. The
identity of the other accused persons was not disputed. 132. During cross examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused

persons, PW64 denied the suggestion that accused Neeraj did not
make any disclosure statements dated 10.04.2015, 29.04.2015,
06.05.2015 and 07.05.2015 which are Ex.PW64/O, P, Q and R or
that the accused Naveen did not make any disclosure statements
dated 23.04.2015 and 10.05.2015 which are Ex.PW64/S and W
or that the accused Rahul did not make any disclosure statements
dated 23.04.2015 and 10.05.2015 which are Ex.PW64/T and X.
He stated that he would have to check the record as to whether
the name of the accused Rambeer Shokeen surfaced in the
disclosure statements made by the other accused persons. He
denied the suggestion that no disclosure statements were made by
the accused persons regarding the accused Rambeer Shokeen or
that the disclosure statements on record were recorded by the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.125 of 385
 police officials on their own in order to falsely implicate the
accused Rambeer Shokeen or that repeated supplementary
disclosure statements were being recorded to cover up the
deficiencies in the earlier statements. 133. PW65 Shri Ish Kumar deposed that he did the work of

Sale Purchase of property and he was doing a job with Pardesi
Group, Sector-11, Rohini. On 28.02.2012 at about 1:30 p.m. he
along with Harinder Singh, Ajit and other friends were sitting in
their office. Two persons aged about 25 years, came to their
office and asked where their boss was. He told them that he was
going out of India. He asked them what work they had on which
they stated that they had come for 'manas maran khatir' and both
of them took out pistols and fired, one at him and the other
towards Harinder Singh but it did not hit them and one shot went
into the chair and the other in the computer. They ran into the
back room and then the said persons escaped. He got an FIR
lodged at PS Prashant Vihar bearing FIR No.98/2012 and he had
given his evidence in Rohini Court in the said matter. Certified
copy of the FIR along with copy of judgment and his statement
recorded as PW2 in the said case are Ex.C-3 (colly). When the
accused persons in the said FIR were arrested, he had gone to PS
Bawana and identified one Manjeet and he did not remember the
name of the other person. He could not identify the said persons
if shown to him as long time had lapsed. 134. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to put

questions to the witness which was allowed and PW65 stated that
he had identified only two persons one of whom was Manjeet

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.126 of 385
 and he could not say if he had identified Rahul Kala or Naveen
Dabas. He denied the suggestion that he had deposed falsely in
this regard as he had been won over by the accused persons. He
could not identify any of the accused persons who had been
produced through VC. The Ld. Additional PP had pointed out
towards the accused Naveen Bali and accused Rahul Dabas @
Kala but the witness stated that he was unable to identify them.
He denied the suggestion that he had not identified the accused
persons as he had been won over by them. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite
opportunity being given and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Counsel for the other accused persons, he denied the suggestion
that the allegations had been made against the accused persons at
the behest of the police officials to falsely implicate them and to
create false evidence against them. 135. PW66 ACP Kailash Singh Bisht deposed that on

29.06.2015, he was posted as Inspector at New Delhi Range,
Lodhi Colony, Delhi. On that date, the IO of the case Shri
Manishi Chandra directed him to obtain the specimen signature
of accused Neeraj Sehrawat after taking Court permission. He
along with SI Ravinder Tyagi went to MCOCA Court at Patiala
House. Accused Neeraj was produced in the Court concerned. He
forwarded an application before the Court for taking the
specimen handwriting. Thereafter, he took the specimen
handwriting in 10 sheets which are part of Ex.PW35/6 (colly).
The Ld. Judge also signed all the 10 sheets. On 07.07.2015, he
along with SI Ravinder Tyagi again went to the concerned Court

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.127 of 385
 where the accused Neeraj was produced and he moved an
application for obtaining the specimen handwriting of accused
Neeraj in the concerned Court. After taking permission from the
concerned Court he obtained specimen handwriting of the
accused Neeraj on 15 sheets which are part of Ex.PW35/6
(colly). The Ld. Judge also signed the 15 sheets. The identity of
the accused was not disputed. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 136. PW67 Shri V. Renganathan deposed that on 19.01.2017,

he was posted as Joint Commissioner of Police, Special Cell,
Delhi. On that day, he received a case file for prosecution
sanction under Section 23 (2) MCOC Act, along with the request
of DCP Special Cell. He had gone through the file, statements of
witnesses, draft charge sheet and other documents on the file. He
had also called the concerned IO, ACP Shri Hirday Bhushan and
he also inquired from him. After satisfying himself, he accorded
sanction on 10.02.2017 against the accused Rambeer Shokeen for
offence under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act 1999 (as extended to
NCT of Delhi vide notification dated 02.01.2002). He accorded
sanction after going through the statements and all documents on
record and after inquiry from IO after applying his mind. The
sanction order is Ex.PW67/A. He was not cross-examined on
behalf of the accused persons except on behalf of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given. 137. PW68 Shri Satyaveer Singh (Retired ACP) deposed that

on 14.03.2015, he was posted as ACP/SR, Special Cell. On that
day, he was also looking after the charge of ACP NDR, Special

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.128 of 385
 Cell as Shri Manishi Chandra, ACP NDR was out of station.
Information was received from PS Domestic Airport Delhi that
one accused Pankaj Sehrawat who was wanted in the present
case was arrested by them under Section 41.1 Cr.P.C . This
information was conveyed to him by Insp. Umesh Bharatwal. On
this information, he along with Insp. Umesh Bharatwal, SI
Ravinder Tyagi and other staff reached PS Domestic Airport
Delhi, where they met Rajesh Yadav IO who produced the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat. He interrogated the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat and on the basis of evidence, he arrested him in the
present case vide arrest memo which is Ex.PW64/A. He recorded
his disclosure statement which is Ex.PW64/B. IO SI Rajesh
Yadav produced accused Pankaj Sehrawat before the Ld. Duty
Magistrate. On their request the custody of the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat was transferred to the Ld. District Judge as MCOC Act Special Judge was out of Delhi. The accused was produced at the
residence of the Ld. District Judge and they were given two days'
police custody of the accused and the next day, he handed over
the accused and the case file to Shri Manishi Chandra ACP NDR. 138. PW68 deposed that on 23.04.2015, he was again looking

after the work of Shri Manishi Chandra ACP NDR as he was on
leave. Information was received that two persons who were
wanted in the present case namely Naveen @ Bali and Rahul @
Kala were produced in the Court pursuant to production
warrants. He along with Insp. Kailash Bisht, SI Ravinder Tyagi
and other staff reached the Court and after taking permission
from the Court they were interrogated. He arrested the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.129 of 385
 Naveen @ Bali vide arrest memo Ex.PW64/U. He recorded his
disclosure statement Ex.PW64/S. He also arrested the accused
Rahul @ Kala vide arrest memo Ex.PW64/V. He also recorded
his disclosure statement which is Ex.PW64/T. On their request,
both the accused persons were remanded in police custody upto
02.05.2015. The case file and the accused persons were handed
over to Shri Manishi Chandra ACP NDR on the same day. The
identity of the accused persons was not disputed. He was not
cross-examined on behalf of the accused persons except accused
Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given and during
cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer
Shokeen, he stated that he did not remember when the name of
accused Rambeer Shokeen surfaced for the first time and in
whose disclosure statement. He denied the suggestion that any of
the accused persons had never disclosed anything incriminating
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen or that the disclosure
statement was recorded by them in order to falsely implicate the
accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present case. 139. PW69 Shri Satnarayan Master deposed that he is a

retired teacher. He did not know anything about the present case.
He did not remember if police had ever called him for any
inquiry. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to cross-
examine the witness as he was not supporting the case of the
prosecution which was allowed and during cross-examination by
the Ld. Additional PP, he stated that he did not remember if he
was called to the Special Cell, Lodhi Road. He was shown the
statement dated 27.04.2015 recorded by ACP Manishi Chandra

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.130 of 385
 under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and he stated that he did not remember
if he had given any such statement. The statement is Mark
PW69/1. He did not remember if he had stated to the police that
he had bought a plot of around 600 sq. yds at Khasra No.38/24,
Village Shahbad Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi about 20 years
prior out of which 300 sq. yds was registered in his name and
remaining 300 sq. yds was registered in the name of his friend
Shri Bhagwan Dass @ Thekedar. He did not remember if in
January 2013, Shri Bhagwan Dass informed him that his son
Subhash Chander @ Pinta told him that he had received a call
from one person who told him that he was Rakesh Pehlwan of
Village Jasoor Khedi, Jhajhar Haryana or if he further told that
the said plot belonged to him and he had put bricks on the said
plot and he held that property. He did not remember if he told
him that he was scared and did not want to indulge in any dispute
as he along with his family lived in Delhi and his children were
vulnerable. He did not remember if he along with his son-in-law
Rakesh Chikara and grandson Ravinder went to the house of
Bhagwan Dass and discussed the matter with him. He did not
remember whether thereafter he along with Rakesh Chikara,
Ravinder and Subhash Chander went to the said plot and found
nobody there but fresh bricks were lying and he told Rakesh
Chikara and Subhash Pinta to find the other party. 140. PW69 did not remember whether thereafter they came to

know that their papers of the plot were not proper and some
chains were missing in between or if they went to Ravinder @
Bholu, resident of Village Prahladpur who had sold the said plot

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.131 of 385
 to them and told him that their papers of the plot were not
complete. He did not remember if he told them that he gave all
the documents to them and there was no fault with the documents
or that thereafter, Rakesh Chikara and Subhash Pinta had found
out that Rakesh Pehlwan of Jasoor Khedi was friend of notorious
gangster Neeraj Bawana who was operating from jail and he was
also his relative. He did not remember if he had stated to the
police that Neeraj Bawana is Bhanja of Rambeer Shokeen, a
powerful politician. He did not remember if he along with
Bhagwan Dass decided that in this old age they did not want to
get into any trouble with the said gangsters and their families
were vulnerable. He did not remember if Bhagwan Dass asked
him to request his son-in-law Rakesh Chikara to help them in the
matter and to see if they could get some money from the
property, even if it had to be sold to someone from the gang of
Neeraj Bawana. He did not remember if he asked Rakesh
Chikara to settle the dispute with the gangster's relative or that
after a couple of days Rakesh Chikara informed him that at best,
he and Bhagwan Dass were being offered money equivalent to
100-100 sq. yds each while the remaining 400 sq. yds would
have to be surrendered free of cost. He did not remember if he
also informed him that there was a threat to their lives and to
their family members if they refused the deal being offered by
the members of Neeraj Bawana gang or if he told the said fact to
Bhagwan Dass. He did not remember if Bhagwan Dass asked
him to get them out of the situation and also handed over the
document of the plot to him or if he asked Rakesh Chikara to
settle the dispute and to sell the plot as soon as possible. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.132 of 385 141. PW69 stated that he did not remember if after a few days,

in the first week of February 2013, Rakesh Chikara gave Rs.5
lakhs to him and told that it was bayana payment for the plot. He
did not remember if on 06.06.2013, he along with Rakesh
Chikara and Ravinder went to Nirwan Group Office of Rajesh
Bansal at C-1/106/107, Sector-11, Rohini or that Bhagwan Dass
along with his son Subhash Chander also came there and one
Rakesh Pehlwan resident of Village Jasoor Khedi also came
there. He did not remember if he was informed that as per the
terms put by the gangsters they all were the sellers of the plot. He
did not remember if from the buyer side one Joginder Thakaran,
resident of Nangal Thakaran, Sanjay Rana from Village Shahbad
Daulatpur, Chand Ram son of Late Amar Singh resident of
Village Dariyapur, Delhi, Shri Vijay Kumar son of Shri Ishwar
Singh, R/o H. No.1, VPO Mangeshpur, Delhi, Rakesh son of
Prem Singh, R/o B-7/8, Miyawali Nagar, Delhi were present at
the said office or that in the presence of the property dealer
Rajesh, he and Bhagwan Dass executed the sale of the said
property of 600 sq. yds in the name of Chand Ram, Vijay Kumar
and Rakesh, R/o Miyawali Nagar, Delhi through GPA attested by
Notary Shri Med Singh (Reg. No.2065/Delhi) bearing registered
entry No.5969 dated 06.06.2013. He did not remember if after
executing the same, he received Rs.60 lakhs on his and Bhagwan
Dass's behalf or if after 2-3 days he gave Rs.27 lakhs to Rakesh
Chikara to hand over to Bhagwan Dass after deducting the
commission of the mediator. He did not remember if Rakesh
Chikara gave Rs.27 lakhs to Bhagwan Dass at his house as a full
and final payment for his share of 100 sq. yds or if in total, he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.133 of 385
 received Rs.32 lakhs for the plot including bayana payment of
Rs.5 lakhs. He did not remember if he had stated to the police
that he knew the same very well that Neeraj Bawana, Pankaj
Bawana and others are very desperate criminals of Delhi and
they could harm anyone anytime so necessary protection may be
provided to him. 142. PW69 stated that the GPA Mark PW48/1 bears his photo at

point Z and his signatures at point Z1 on every page; the
Agreement to Sell dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/2 bears his
photo at point Z and his signatures at point Z1 on every page;
copy of receipt dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/3 bears his photo
at point Z and his signatures at point Z1; copy of possession
letter dated 04.06.2013 Mark PW48/4 bears his signatures at
point Z1; deed of Will dated 04.06.2013 executed by him is
Mark PW49/2 and the same bears his photo at point Z and his
signatures at point Z1. He stated that on the deed of Will dated
04.06.2013 executed by Shri Bhagwan Dass the photo was
perhaps of Shri Bhagwan Dass. He did not remember if the same
was prepared in his presence. The same is Mark PW49/3. He
identified his signatures on the indemnity bond dated 04.06.2013,
executed by him and Shri Bhagwan Dass which is Mark
PW49/4 at point Z1 and on the affidavit-cum-undertaking dated
04.06.2013, executed by him and Shri Bhagwan Dass which is
Mark PW49/5 at point Z1. He denied the suggestion that
statement Mark PW69/1 was true and correct version of his
statement which he had given to the police or that he had stated
that he did not remember the facts that had been put to him as he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.134 of 385
 had been won over by the accused persons. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity
being given. 143. PW70 Inspector Rajesh Kumar deposed that on
14.03.2015, he was posted as Sub-Inspector at PS Domestic
Airport, New Delhi. On that day, case FIR No.26/15 was handed
over to him for further investigation and in the said case, accused
Smt. Sudesh Kumari was interrogated. During her interrogation,
she stated that she was going to Kolkata along with her son,
namely, Pankaj Kumar. She further disclosed that her son was
standing outside the police station at that time. He apprehended
her son, namely, Pankaj Sehrawat S/o Shri Prem Singh R/o
Village Bawana, Delhi. Accused Pankaj Sehrawat was
interrogated and revealed that he was involved in many criminal
cases. Thereafter, he arrested the accused for offence punishable
under Section 41.1 Cr.P.C . Information regarding arrest was sent
to Special Cell as well as to other police stations. After medical
examination of accused, kalandra was prepared and accused was
produced before the Court. Special Cell officials also reached the
Court and moved application in the Court and accused Pankaj
Sehrawat was handed over to them, as he was wanted in the
present case. The copy of kalandra is Mark PW70/1; copy of
arrest memo is Mark PW70/2; copy of personal search memo is
Mark PW70/3. He stated that the kalandra Mark PW70/1 was
in his handwriting. He was not cross-examined on behalf of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given.
During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the other

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.135 of 385
 accused persons, he did not remember whether he had handed
over the air ticket of the accused to the IO of the present case or
not and volunteered he had collected the air ticket during
investigation in case FIR No.26/15, PS Domestic Airport, New
Delhi. He admitted that the said air tickets were not available in
the present case file. In FIR No.26/15, offence under Section 25 Arms Act was involved. He had not received any notice
regarding any case in which the accused Pankaj Sehrawat was
PO or NBWs had been issued against him and volunteered he
had interrogated him and he had revealed about the other cases.
He denied the suggestion that any such disclosure was never
made either by Pankaj Sehrawat or his mother Sudesh Kumari or
that the disclosure as alleged in the case file was recorded at the
behest of the police officials of Special Cell only to falsely
implicate the accused Pankaj Sehrawat in the present case. In FIR
No.26/15, only Sudesh Kumari was the accused. 144. PW71 ASI Surender Kumar deposed that on 04.02.2016,

he was posted as ASI at PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony. On that
day, DCP Shri Manishi Chandra handed over to him an
application and directed him to go to Dehradun to bring one
vehicle from Dehradun Court. On that day, he along with HC
Sanjay Dhama went to Dehradun Court and filed the application
given by DCP Shri Manishi Chandra regarding vehicle, bearing
No.DL-8CAF-9780. The Court of Dehdradun ordered regarding
handing over of possession of the same to him and they went to
police station Doiwala, Dehradun. Thereafter, they took
possession of the vehicle from PS Doiwala. Prior to moving the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.136 of 385
 application in the Court, they had also visited PS Doiwala for
verification of the vehicle. They along with the vehicle came
back to PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony and deposited the same in
Malkhana. He handed over the documents regarding the same to
DCP Shri Manishi Chandra. The application of DCP Shri
Manishi Chandra to Dehradun Court along with the order of the
concerned Court is Ex.C-54. The copy of FIR Nos.137/15,
138/15 and 139/15, which were registered at PS Doiwala are
Ex.C-55 [colly (28-30)]. He was not cross-examined on behalf of
the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given.
During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the other
accused persons he stated that he had gone through the contents
of the application handed over to him by DCP Shri Manishi
Chandra. He did not remember as to regarding which accused the
application was related. Perhaps, it was related to the accused
Amit @ Bhura only. No written order was given to him for the
said purpose to visit Dehradun Court and volunteered the order
was contained in the application itself. He did not know what
was the relevance of the said vehicle in the present case. 145. PW72 ASI Sanjeev deposed that on 10.04.2015, he was

posted as MHC(M) at PS Special Cell, Lodhi Colony. On that
day, HC Gurmeet deposited the contents from personal search of
accused Pankaj Sehrawat through RC No.17/21/15. He entered
the same into register No.19 vide entry No.2528. Copy of the
same is Ex.PW72/A. On 12.04.2015, ACP Shri Manishi Chandra
deposited one Mahindra Scorpio, bearing registration No.DL-
10CT-0917 along with photocopy of RC, delivery receipt, retail

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.137 of 385
 invoice dated 26.06.2014 of the said vehicle, receipt of Rs.91,174
dated 30.06.2014 of the Scorpio Car and key. He entered the
same in register No.19 vide entry No.2532. Copy of the same is
Ex.PW72/B (OSR). On 30.04.2015, ACP Shri Manishi Chandra
deposited one sealed parcel sealed with the seal of 'Special Cell
NDR 32' containing one CD. He entered the same in register
No.19 vide entry No.2546. Copy of the same is Ex.PW72/C
(OSR). On 02.05.2015, ACP Manishi Chandra deposited one
register. He entered the same in register No.19 vide entry
No.2550. Copy of the same is Ex.PW72/D (OSR). On
07.05.2015, SI Sohan Lal deposited three sealed parcels sealed
with the seal of 'Special Cell NDR 37' containing micro SD Card
of San Disk marked as S-1 to S-3. He entered the same in register
No.19 vide entry No.2552. Copy of the same is Ex.PW72/E
(OSR). On 12.05.2015, SI Vikram Dahiya deposited four sealed
parcels sealed with the seal of 'Special Cell NDR 13' containing
micro SD Cards T-1 to T-4, make Kingston. He entered the same
in register No.19 vide entry No.2554. Copy of the same is
Ex.PW72/F (OSR). On 17.05.2015, ACP Manishi Chandra
deposited one sealed parcel sealed with the seal of 'Special Cell
NDR 1' containing SIM Card. He entered the same in register
No.19 vide entry No.2562. Copy of the same is Ex.PW72/G
(OSR). 146. PW72 further deposed that on 02.06.2015, ACP Manishi

Chandra deposited two sealed parcels sealed with the seal of
'Special Cell NDR 1' containing two CDs marked as V-1 and V- 2. He entered the same in register No.19 vide entry No.2575. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.138 of 385
 Copy of the same is Ex.PW72/H (OSR). On 08.06.2015, he
handed over S-1, V-1 and V-2 along with CFSL form to HC
Parvesh Rathi with the instructions to deposit the same in CFSL,
CBI vide RC No.69/21/15. After deposition, HC Parvesh Rathi
handed over to him the acknowledgment receipt on the same day.
Copy of RC is Ex.PW72/I (OSR). He was not cross-examined
on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity
being given. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for
the other accused persons he stated that the seals were
maintained by General Store. The seals were not deposited with
the MHC(M). SI Vikram Dahiya or ASI Sohan Lal and ACP
Manishi Chandra had not deposited any seal with him. He denied
the suggestion that the articles mentioned in his examination
were not deposited in the malkhana on the said dates or that the
entries made by him in the register were false and fabricated,
which were made at the behest of police officials to create false
evidence against the accused persons or that the parcels were not
sealed as stated by him in the examination or that the same were
manipulated by him at the behest of police officials to create
false evidence to support the case of prosecution and to falsely
implicate the accused in the present case. 147. PW73 Shri S.N. Shrivastava, Retired Commissioner of

Police deposed that in 2015, he was posted as Special
Commissioner, Special Cell. He superannuated as Commissioner
of Police, Delhi on 30.06.2021. During his posting as Special
Commissioner Special Cell in Delhi Police, on 16.02.2015, he
received a proposal from Shri Manishi Chandra, the then ACP,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.139 of 385
 Special Cell, for approval under Section 23 (1) of MCOC Act, to
register a case under Sections of MCOC Act against Neeraj
Bawania and the seven other criminal syndicate members namely
Naveen, Rahul, Pankaj, Amit Malik, Sunil Rathi, Naveen Bhanja
and Rambeer Shokeen. On 20.02.2015, after going through the
material available on record along with the detailed proposal sent
by the ACP and after due application of mind and on being
satisfied, owing to larger public interest, he accorded approval
for registration and investigation of the case under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act against seven accused persons. On 29.08.2015,
he received a request of the IO, Additional DCP Manishi
Chandra, to grant sanction under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act
against 10 accused persons namely Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen
Dabas, Rahul Dabas, Pankaj, Amit Malik, Sunil Rathi, Naveen
Hooda, Gurpreet Singh, Deepak Dabas and Rambeer Shokeen for
offences under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act. In order to satisfy
himself as regards the evidence collected against the said accused
persons, he summoned the IO Additional DCP Manishi Chandra
with complete record of the case and perused carefully the
statements of the witnesses and other documents placed on file.
After scrutiny of the record, he found that organized crime
syndicate led by Neeraj Sehrawat @ Bawania was continuing
with their unlawful activities of murder, attempt to murder,
extortion, assault on police party etc. by using illegal firearms in
Delhi and other states by resorting to violence, threat of violence,
intimidation, coercion with the objective of creating terror among
people and making pecuniary benefits. After satisfying himself,
he accorded sanction against the said 10 accused persons for

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.140 of 385
 offences punishable under Section 3 (4) of MCOC Act vide
sanction order dated 09.09.2015. Approval for registration of FIR
vide order dated 20.02.2015 is Ex.PW73/A and the sanction
order dated 09.09.2015 bearing his signatures at point A is
Ex.PW73/B. 148. PW74 Shri Manishi Chandra, DCP deposed that in

February 2015, he was posted as ACP Special Cell, Lodhi
Colony. He had prepared a proposal for registration of the case
under MCOC Act which was forwarded through proper channel
for seeking approval of the competent authority as defined under Section 23 (1) (a) of the said Act. The proposal is Ex.PW74/A.
The competent authority i.e. the then Special Commissioner of
Police, Special Cell had granted approval for the registration of
the FIR which is Ex.PW73/A and consequent to this, the present
FIR was registered at PS Special Cell on the basis of his
complaint dated 23.02.2015 which is Ex.PW20/2. The
investigation of the FIR was taken up by himself as per the
requirements of the MCOC Act . During the course of
investigation, he had formally arrested accused Sunil Rathi, Amit
Malik, Deepak Dabas, Neeraj Sehrawat and Naveen Hooda when
they were brought on respective production warrants. Also,
accused Gurpreet Singh was arrested by him as a fresh arrestee in
the course of investigation. Further 3 more accused viz. Pankaj
Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas and Rahul Dabas were investigated by
him even though their arrests in the present FIR were affected by
his colleague ACP Shri Satyaveer Dagar who was looking after
his charge during the course of his leaves. He had also arrested

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.141 of 385
 and interrogated accused persons namely Deepak Dabas @
Deepa; Naveen Huda @ Bhanja and Amit Malik @ Bhura
(already discharged). He further deposed to the same effect as
PW64. 149. PW74 deposed that he tried to search the accused Rambeer

Shokeen but in vain. He obtained NBWs against him and
thereafter, process under Sections 82 Cr.P.C. and 83 Cr.P.C . was
issued against him. The copy of application for NBWs is
Ex.PW74/B. His application regarding process under Sections 82 Cr.P.C. and 83 Cr.P.C . is Ex.PW74/C (colly). The report
regarding process under Section 83 Cr.P.C. is Ex.PW74/D
(colly). He had issued notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to the
Branch Manager, Oriental Bank of Commerce, Najafgarh Road,
Nangloi, Delhi. The copy of the notice is Ex.PW74/E. He had
also requested the Sub-Registrar, Nangloi to attach the property
of accused Rambeer Shokeen. Copy of the said notice is
Ex.PW74/F. He had also issued notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C.
to RTO, Wazirpur, Delhi which is Ex.PW74/G. He also issued
notice to Chief Electoral Officer, Kashmere Gate, Delhi
regarding enquiry of expenditure and assets declared by Rambeer
Shokeen which is Ex.PW74/H. On 16.04.2015, he had issued
notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to the Regional Passport Officer,
Kolkata, West Bengal. The copy of the same along with its
acknowledgement is Ex.PW74/I. He had sent eight exhibits to
FSL, Rohini, Delhi vide letter dated 10.07.2015 which is
Ex.PW74/J. Notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. was served to
General Manager, Durga Showroom, Rama Road, Moti Nagar,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.142 of 385
 Delhi which is Ex.PW74/K. He also issued notice under Section
91 Cr.P.C., Mark PW21/A, to Satman Automobiles Private
Limited, Okhla, Delhi and the same is Ex.PW74/L. The copy of
the notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to General Manager, Carz
Unlimited, Moti Nagar, Delhi dated 23.04.2015 is Ex.PW74/M.
Seizure memo of register dated 02.05.2015 is Ex.PW18/2. Notice
dated 19.05.2015 to Branch Manager, Indian Bank, Nangloi,
Delhi is Ex.PW45/A. Notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. dated
18.06.2015 to Branch Manager, Indian Bank, Nangloi Delhi is
Ex.PW74/N. Notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. to Branch
Manager, Karur Vysya Bank, Rohini Delhi is Ex.PW37/1. 150. PW74 further deposed that he had also got recorded the

statements of a few public witnesses under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
which are Ex.C-20 (colly); Ex.C-21 (Colly) and Ex.C-22 (Colly).
The statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. of Shri Ranjan Kumar
S/o Shri Ashok Kumar is Ex.PW8/A. The application for
recording statement of witnesses namely Ranjan Kumar and Shri
Kamaldeep Dabas under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is Ex.PW74/O; the
proceedings under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and his application for
copy of the same are Ex.PW74/P (colly). His application for
recording statement of witnesses namely Rajesh Bansal, Rakesh
Chikara, Jasbir Singh, Sandeep Sehrawat @ Babloo under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. is Ex.PW74/Q. His application for re-
recording statement of witnesses namely Rajesh Bansal and
Jasbir Singh under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is Ex.PW74/R. The
proceeding regarding identification of witness Rajesh Bansal
dated 01.05.2015 under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is Ex.PW74/S. The

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.143 of 385
 proceeding regarding identification of witness Jasbir Singh @
Goldy dated 29.04.2015 under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is
Ex.PW74/T. 151. PW74 proved the copy of notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C. having receiving of the Manager of Hotel Narayana Udaipur,
Rajasthan as Ex.PW74/U. The reply of the Manager of Hotel
Narayana Udaipur, Rajasthan is Ex.PW74/V. During
investigation, he had authorized ASI Surender to bring the
vehicle bearing registration No. DL 8C AF 9780 from Dehradun.
His application in this regard is Ex.C-54 bearing his signatures at
point X. He had also collected the certified copy of the judgment
of case FIR No.69/10 PS Hari Nagar which is Ex.PW74/W
(colly) regarding the conviction of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat.
He stated that the wife of accused Rambeer Shokeen namely Rita
Shokeen had visited the office of Special Cell Lodhi Road, New
Delhi and handed over to him one request letter regarding
seeking time for joining investigation on behalf of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen which is Ex.PW74/X. On her letter his
comments are at points A to A1 bearing his signatures at point X.
The letter was bearing signatures of Rita Shokeen at point B and
C as she had signed at point C in his presence. He stated that
during the course of investigation, detailed documentary
evidence qua the places of visit, stay and expenses undertaken by
the accused Neeraj Sehrawat was collected. Two vehicles one
Mahindra Scorpio and one Toyota Etios were seized vide
respective seizure memos. Notices were sent out to various
authorities for determining the mode of livelihood of the arrested

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.144 of 385
 accused and their responses were collected and placed on file.
Specimen handwriting of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat and voice
specimen of accused Gurpreet Singh were taken for respective
Forensic analysis. Efforts were made to trace the accused
Rambeer Shokeen against whom approval had not been accorded
but whose role had figured during the course of investigation.
After completion of necessary proceedings under Sections 82 , 83 Cr.P.C. accused Rambeer Shokeen was declared as proclaimed
offender by the concerned Court. 152. PW74 deposed that after completion of investigation, he
had moved the proposal seeking sanction to prosecute as required
under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act against the arrested as well as
the absconding PO accused and after receipt of the same, the
main police report under Section 173 and two subsequent
supplementary police reports under Section 173 (8) Cr.P.C. were
submitted by him. He was transferred from Special Cell in the
month of October 2016 and upon being relieved from the Special
Cell, he had entrusted the continuing investigation to his
successor Shri Govind Sharma. He identified the accused persons
produced through VC except accused Rambeer Shokeen who was
not arrested by him. 153. PW75 Shri Rajesh Kumar Jangira, SJA had brought the

summoned record i.e. case file of FIR No.30/2015, PS Special
Cell, Delhi under Sections 186 , 353 , 307 / 34 IPC and 25/27 Arms
Act . The seizure memo dated 11.04.2015 of documents which
was Mark PW62/1 is Ex.PW75/A (OSR). Seizure memo dated
09.04.2015 of AK47 rifle and SLR which was Mark PW62/2 is

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.145 of 385
 Ex.PW75/B (OSR). Copy of judgment dated 21.08.2016 in FIR
No.30/2015 is Ex.PW75/C (OSR) and order on sentence dated
08.09.2016 is Ex.PW75/D (OSR). He was not cross-examined
on behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 154. PW76 Ms. Hoisi Gangte, Assistant Ahlmad had brought

the summoned record i.e. case file of FIR No.7/2015, PS Special
Cell, Delhi under Sections 25 / 54 / 59 Arms Act. The copy of
charge sheet is Ex.C-60 (colly) (OSR). The copy of disclosure
statement of accused Parvesh Mann @ Sagar dated 06.02.2015 is
Ex.PW76/A (OSR). She was not cross-examined on behalf of
the accused persons despite opportunity being given. 155. PW77 Shri Hridya Bhushan, ACP deposed that on

31.12.2016 he was posted as ACP, Special Cell, NDR, Lodhi
Colony, New Delhi. On that day, the investigation of case FIR
No.10/15, PS Special Cell was handed over to him after the
previous IO ACP Govind Sharma was transferred from Special
Cell, NDR. He perused the case file. During the investigation, he
collected the attested copies of documents pertaining to case FIR
Nos. 65/2016, 35/2015 and 7/2015 of PS Special Cell and FIR
No.764/2014, PS Netaji Subhash Place, Delhi. He also collected
certified copies of documents pertaining to case FIR No.1072/14
of PS Baghpat. During investigation, he also collected the
income tax return and PAN card details of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and his wife Ms. Rita Shokeen and their account details
from Oriental Bank of Commerce, Nangloi and State Bank of
Hyderabad, Rohini, Delhi. He also recorded the statement of the
witnesses. He further obtained prosecution sanction under

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.146 of 385 Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and after completion of investigation he had filed the
charge sheet in the Court. The notice under Section 91 Cr.P.C.
served upon the Commissioner of Income Tax E-2 Civic Centre,
Near NDLS Railway Station is Ex.PW77/A. He was not cross-
examined on behalf of the accused persons except accused
Rambeer Shokeen despite opportunity being given. 156. PW78 Rakesh Jatav deposed that he worked as a Driver. He was illiterate. He only knew how to sign in Hindi. In the year
2013, he was a cycle repair mechanic near Mundka. One
Bhagwan Dass who used to reside in Rohini had got his bank
account opened in Indian Bank many years back. One Ajay was
working at the residence of Bhagwan Dass who was a friend of
his. Ajay had brought Bhagwan Dass to him and they requested
him to help them. They told him that their land had been sold and
they wanted to deposit the money in his account on which he
stated that he did not have any bank account, thereafter his
account was opened by Bhagwan Dass. The amount which was
around Rs.18 to 20 lakhs came to his account. After 2-3 days the
amount was withdrawn by Bhagwan Dass. He asked him why he
did not get the money deposited in the name of his servant on
which he stated that his servant Ajay did not have Aadhar Card
so the account could not be opened in his name. 157. The Ld. Additional PP requested for permission to cross- examine the witness as he was resiling from his earlier statement
which was allowed and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Additional PP, PW78 could not tell the address of Bhagwan Dass

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.147 of 385
 and Ajay and volunteered Ajay used to come at his shop and he
had never visited the house of Ajay or Bhagwan Dass. He did not
have the mobile number of Ajay and Bhagwan Dass. He did not
know any person namely Vijay Kumar who had issued the
cheques of Rs.8 lakhs and Rs.7 lakhs in his name. He denied the
suggestion that he was unable to tell the complete address and
mobile numbers of Ajay and Bhagwan Dass as no such persons
existed or that the cheques were handed over to him by the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat and he was deposing falsely at the
instance of the accused persons as he had been won over by
them. He stated that he was called by Special Cell but he did not
go, thereafter the officials of Special Cell took him and made
inquiries from him. No statement of his was recorded. However,
inquiry was made from him. The Ld. Additional PP read out the
statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. to the witness and he denied
having made the same. The same is Mark PW78/A. He had not
stated to the police that he had three children and he was illiterate
or that he had learnt how to sign through his children. He had not
stated to the police that he ran a cycle and motorcycle puncture
shop in Kamruddin Nagar which he had taken on rent of
Rs.5000/- per month and volunteered his shop was in Mundka.
He was confronted with the statement Mark PW78/A wherein it
was so recorded. 158. PW78 stated that he had stated to the police that he was

paying rent of Rs.6000/- per month for his residence. He knew
Rambeer Shokeen. He denied the suggestion that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was at a distance of 50-100 mtrs. from his

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.148 of 385
 shop and volunteered it was 5 to 6 kms away. He denied the
suggestion that during the elections of Councilor of 2012, he
started going to the office of Rambeer Shokeen for lunch and
sweet water. He denied the suggestion that at that time, he came
into contact with the accused Rambeer Shokeen, Pankaj
Sehrawat or that in June 2013, accused Pankaj Sehrawat met him
in office and told him to open a bank account or that when he
asked him the reason for the same, he stated that he had to
receive certain cheques which he would take in his name or that
the accused Pankaj Sehrawat gave him Rs.1000/- to open one
bank account. He admitted that bank account No.605597918 is
his. He denied the suggestion that on 17.06.2013 he could
manage to open one bank account No.605597918 with the help
of his known persons. He denied the suggestion that on the same
day, he gave his account number to the accused Pankaj Sehrawat
and he handed over to him three cheques in his name of Rs.5
lakhs, Rs.7 lakhs and Rs.8 lakhs and directed him to deposit the
same in his bank and he deposited the same in his bank after
filling the receipt. He denied the suggestion that at the direction
of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat, he used to visit his bank
regularly to inquire regarding clearance of the cheques or that on
20.06.2013 the cheques were cleared and he informed regarding
the same to Pankaj or that he along with Pankaj went to the bank
and he filled the form to withdraw Rs.20 lakhs but the cashier
told them that there was not enough cash amount and to
withdraw huge amount, one had to inform the bank one day prior
or that he informed regarding the same to Pankaj and the accused
Pankaj talked to his uncle Rambeer Shokeen through phone and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.149 of 385
 Rambeer Shokeen talked to the Bank Manager. He denied the
suggestion that on the same day, he withdrew Rs.1 lakh and
Rs.14 lakhs in cash and he along with the accused Pankaj went to
the office of Rambeer Shokeen and the accused Pankaj handed
over the cash amount to Rambeer Shokeen after taking the same
from him. 159. PW78 further denied the suggestion that the accused

Pankaj asked him to withdraw the remaining amount of Rs.5
lakhs on the next day or that he along with Pankaj went to the
bank and he withdrew Rs.5 lakhs and he along with Pankaj went
to the office of accused Rambeer Shokeen and accused Pankaj
handed over Rs.5 lakhs to the accused Rambeer Shokeen after
taking the same from him. He was confronted with his statement
Mark PW78/A wherein the said facts were recorded. He denied
the suggestion that he had deliberately denied the said facts as he
had been won over by the accused persons or that the statement
Mark PW78/A was the true and correct version given by him to
police officials but he was denying the same as he had been won
over by the accused persons. He did not remember whether he
had handed over the copy of his bank statement after putting his
signatures on the same to the IO of the present case. Copy of
passbook of account No.605597918 and bank account statement
of the same were shown to the witness who identified his
signatures at point A on each page. Copy of the passbook and
bank statement are Mark PW78/1 (colly). 160. PW78 stated that he did not identify the accused Pankaj

Sehrawat. The Ld. Additional PP had pointed out towards the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.150 of 385
 accused Pankaj Sehrawat who had been produced through VC
but the witness stated that he was not able to identify him. He
denied the suggestion that he was deliberately not identifying the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat as he had been won over by him. He
identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen produced through VC.
He was cross-examined by the Ld. Counsel for the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and he stated that he knew the accused
Rambeer Shokeen as he had come in his Gali for campaigning
and he had also seen him on Television. He had never personally
met the accused Rambeer Shokeen. He had never been to the
office of accused Rambeer Shokeen. He was not cross-examined
on behalf of the other accused persons despite opportunity being
given. 161. The Ld. Addl. PP had made a statement dated 19.09.2019
that he may be allowed to drop Ct. Kapil of PS Fugana, District
Muzaffarnagar as a witness as he had brought the record
pertaining to previous involvement of the accused Amit Malik @
Bhura who had already been discharged by the Court which was
allowed. The accused Pankaj Sehrawat, Neeraj Sehrawat, Rahul
Dabas @ Kala and Naveen Dabas @ Bali had made a joint
statement on 22.2.2020 admitting the following documents: i) RC No.69/21/15 regarding deposit of
 intercepted voice calls to CFSL; ii) FIR, charge-sheets of Crime
 No.1072/2014 and FIR No.575/2014 PS
 Baghpat, UP of accused Amit Malik,
 Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen Hooda and
 Sunil Rathi (running into page Nos. from 1031 to 1043); State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.151 of 385 iii) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
 FIR No.98/2012 PS Prashant Vihar of
 accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali and
 involvement of accused Neeraj
 Sehrawat and Rahul Kala (running from
 page Nos. 133 to 1443); iv) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
 FIR No.234/2012 PS Prashant Vihar of
 accused Neeraj Sehrawat (running from
 page Nos. 1493-1517); v) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
 FIR No.180/2012 PS Samaypur Badli
 of accused Neeraj Sehrawat (running
 from page Nos. 1518-1612); vi) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance and
 other documents of FIR No.77/2012 PS
 Bawana of accused Neeraj Sehrawat,
 Rahul Dabas @ Kala and Naveen Dabas
 @ Bali (running from page Nos. 1613-
 1649); vii) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance and
 other documents of FIR No.53/2012 PS
 Bawana, Delhi of accused Neeraj
 Sehrawat, Rahul Dabas @ Kala and
 Naveen Dabas @ Bali (running from
 page Nos. 1650-1707); viii) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
 FIR No.99/2012 PS Bawana, Delhi of
 accused Neeraj Sehrawat, Pankaj
 Sehrawat and Deepak Dabas (running
 from page Nos. 1708-1736); ix) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
 FIR No.179/2012 PS Bawana, Delhi of
 accused Neeraj Sehrawat, Rahul Dabas
 and Deepak Dabas (running from page
 Nos. 1737-1767); x) Charge-sheet, FIR and cognizance of
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.152 of 385
 FIR No.183/2014 PS Bawana, Delhi of
 accused Rahul Dabas @ Kala (running
 from page Nos.1768-1878); xi) FIR No.739/2014 PS Nangloi, Delhi
 (page No.681); and xii) Documents of conviction of accused
 Neeraj Sehrawat in FIR No.69/2010 PS
 Hari Nagar (page Nos.1297-1332). The said documents were thereafter admitted by the accused
Rambeer Shokeen vide statement dated 05.03.2021. All the
accused persons further vide statement dated 09.09.2022
admitted the following documents: 11) Proceedings of recording of statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. of Rajesh Bansal (page Nos.944-948); 12) Proceedings of recording of statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. dated 30.04.2015 of Rajesh Bansal and Rakesh
 Chikara (page Nos.933-943); 13) Reply dated 27.04.2015 and details of account No.0328501-
 1000455 of Sachin Goel (page Nos.525-533); 14) Documents of account No.4209101-10010822 seized on
 22.04.2015 in the name of Suraj (page Nos.546-554); 15) Copy of FIR No.1683/2015 dated 25.08.2015 PS
 Mangolpuri Delhi related to double murder by accused
 Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas, Rahul Dabas and Naveen
 Hooda in Jail van (page Nos.1473-1474); 16) Certified copies of charge sheet, FIR, disclosure statement
 and postmortem report of FIR No.1683/2015 dated
 25.08.2015 under Sections 302 / 120B / 147 / 149 / 34 IPC PS
 Mangolpuri Delhi (Page Nos.31-71) and statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (page No.76-76); 17) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake name and ID of Prashant with others in Hotel Narayan
 (page Nos.1982-2001); 18) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake name and ID of Prashant with others in Hotel Jai
 Mahal from 03.09.2014 - 04.09.2014 (page Nos.2002-
 2006); State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.154 of 385 19) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake name and ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel
 Savera from January 06-09, 2015 (page Nos.2007-2012); 20) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake name and ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel
 Juhu Residency from January 24-27, 2015 (page Nos. 2013-
 2026); 21) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake name and ID of Vikas Kumar with others in Hotel Suba
 Galaxy from January 04-05, 2015 (page Nos.2027 -2034); 22) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Vikas Kumar with others in Hotel Marigold from
 April 01-03, 2015 (page Nos.2035-2048); 23) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel Raj Palace
 from February 21-26, 2015 (page Nos.2056-2063); 24) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Vikas Kumar with others in Hotel Rupasi Bangla
 from February 26 to March 03, 2015 (page Nos.2064-2070); 25) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Prashant Bhardwaj with others in Hotel
 Geetanjali from March 03-06, 2015 (page Nos.2071-2077); 26) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj with others in
 Hotel Host International from April 01-06, 2014 (page
 Nos.2078-2081); 27) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj with others in
 Hotel Kings Crown from April 06-07, 2014 (page
 Nos.2082-2089); 28) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Vikas Kumar with others in Hotel Devsagar from
 March 12-14, 2015 (page Nos.2090-2098); 29) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
 fake ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel N. S.
 International from March 06-07, 2015 (page Nos.2099-
 2103); State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.155 of 385 30) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj with others in
 Hotel Majestic International from March 09-11, 2015 (page
 Nos.2104-2112); 31) Documents related to stay of accused Neeraj with Arvind
 Rohilla and others in Hotel Green View from March 27-28,
 2015 (page Nos.2113-2118); 32) Reply dated 25.04.2015 to show the date for accused Neeraj
 in the name of Suraj Singh for passport and other documents
 (page Nos.2119-2123); 33) Certified copy of FORM-26 filed by Rambeer Shokeen in
 Delhi Legislative Assembly for AC-08 for year 2013
 containing Expenditure/assets details (page Nos.790-803); 34) Certified copy of FORM-26 filed by Mrs. Rita Shokeen W/o
 Rambeer Shokeen in Delhi Legislative Assembly for AC-08
 for year 2015 containing Expenditure/assets details (page
 Nos.804-820); 35) Charge sheet, FIR, cognizance and other documents of FIR
 No.183/2014 PS Bawana Delhi regarding double murder in
 road rage by accused Rahul Dabas @ Kala (page No.680- 680 and page Nos.1768-1878); 36) Reply of report in respect of Sunil Rathi & Others vide
 letter No.62/ST-SDM-Baraut/2015 dated 04.05.2015 (page
 Nos. 840-848); 37) Involvement of accused Sunil Rathi (page Nos.849-850)
Charge Sheet dated 30.01.2016 38) Recharge and bill payment details as per reply dated
 28.11.2015 (page Nos.99-103); 39) Recharge and bill payment details as per reply dated
 16.11.2015 (page Nos.104-105); 40) Recharge and bill payment details as per reply dated
 16.11.2015 (page Nos.108-111); 41) Recharge and bill payment details as per reply dated
 16.09.2015 (page Nos.112-113); State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.156 of 385 42) Recharge and bill payment details as per reply dated
 07.12.2015 (page Nos.114-119)
Charge Sheet Dated 19.02.2016 43) Transfer order of Toyota Etios car by Ld. ASJ-IV, Dehradun
 to Delhi (page No.27-27) and statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. regarding deposit of car at PS Special Cell, Delhi
 (page No.77-77); 44) Certified copy of Crime No.20/2015 FIR No.135-138/2015
 PS Doiwala, Dehradoon Uttrakhand and Charge Sheet (page
 Nos.28-30)
Charge Sheet dated 08.03.2017 45) Income Tax Return and PAN Card details of accused
 Rambeer Shokeen and his wife Mrs. Rita Shokeen (page
 Nos.173-178); 46) Attested copies of two supplementary charge sheets and
 disclosure statements of FIR No.764/2014 PS Subhash
 Palace, Delhi and complete record of FIR No.764/2014 PS
 Subhash Palace, Delhi (page Nos.32-105); 47) Certified copy of cognizance and attested copy of charge
 sheet of FIR No.35/2015 under Sections 384/34 PS Special
 Cell, Delhi (page Nos.136-149); 48) Certified copy of cognizance and attested copies of FIR,
 seizure memo, sketch of pistol, disclosure statements and
 charge sheet of accused Rambeer Shokeen related to FIR
 No.65/2016 PS Special Cell, Delhi (page Nos.150-171); 49) Copies of charge sheet, FIR and disclosure statement of
 accused Parvesh Maan related to FIR No.07/2015 PS
 Special Cell, Delhi (page Nos. 119-135); 50) Complete record of FIR No.1072/2014 (should be FIR
 No.575/2014 and Crime No.1072/2014) under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 395 , 397 , 120-B , 34 IPC, PS Kotwali, Baghpat,
 UP and certified copies (page Nos.106-118); 51) Attested copy of FIR No.308/2007 under Sections
 341 / 325 / 34 IPC PS Nangloi Delhi related to conviction of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.157 of 385
 accused Rambeer Shokeen S/o Shri Nawal Singh and others
 (page Nos.27-29); 52) Involvements of accused Rambeer Shokeen S/o Shri Nawal
 Singh mentioned at Register No.9 Part-III, Beat No.1, serial
 No.87/2 and Information Sheet report dated 17.01.2017
 (page No.30); 53) Report dated 20.02.2017 regarding destruction order dated
 09.12.2016 of FIR No.308/2007 PS Nangloi, Delhi (page
 No.31); 54) Details of account No.62309088497 of accused Rambeer
 Shokeen and 62315772594 of Mrs. Rita Shokeen obtained
 vide No.F-231 & 232 dated 03.03.2017 (page Nos.179- 202); and 55) Details of account No.05832010001120 of accused Rambeer
 Shokeen and 05832010049800 of Mrs. Rita Shokeen
 obtained on 02.03.2017 (page Nos.203-217). 162. The accused Rambeer Shokeen vide his statement dated

05.03.2021 had further admitted Ex.PW1/A; Ex.PW3/A;
Ex.PW3/B; Ex.PW3/C; Ex.PW3/D; Ex.PW4/A; Ex.PW5/A;
Ex.PW5/B; Ex.PW5/C; Ex.PW5/D; Ex.PW10/1; Ex.PW10/2;
Ex.PW10/3; Ex.PW10/4; Ex.PW10/5; Ex.PW10/6; Ex.PW10/7;
Ex.PW10/8; Ex.PW10/9; Ex.PW10/10; Ex.PW10/11;
Ex.PW10/12; Ex.PW10/13; Ex.PW10/14; Ex.PW10/15;
Ex.PW10/16; Ex.PW10/17; Ex.PW10/18; Ex.PW10/19;
Ex.PW10/20; Ex.PW10/21; Ex.PW10/22; Ex.PW10/23;
Ex.PW10/24 and Ex.PW10/25. Vide order dated 09.09.2022,
witnesses at Sr. No.10, 30, 32, 34, 35, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 53,
70, Inspector Arvind Kumar, Sr. No.86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 93, 94,
95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 108, 109, 111, 113, 114,
witnesses at Sr. No.4, 5, 7, 8, 9 in the charge sheet dated

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.158 of 385
 30.01.2016, at Sr. No.1, 2 in the supplementary charge sheet
dated 19.02.2016, at Sr. No.2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 16 in
the supplementary charge sheet dated 08.03.2017 were dropped.
Further witnesses at Sr. No.5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 22, 24, 25,
26, 27, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63,
64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 105, 130, 131, 148 and
158 were dropped and at Sr. No.1 in charge sheet dated
08.03.2017 had already expired. Witness at Sr. No.132 Bhagwan
Dass had already expired and witness at Sr. No.128 was dropped
vide order dated 18.03.2023. Witnesses at Sr. No.84 and 104
were dropped vide order dated 12.04.2023 as also witnesses at Sr.
No.54, 67, 71 to 76, 77, 112, 154. Witness at Sr. No.14 in the
supplementary charge sheet No.3 was stated to have expired.
Witness at Sr. No.1 in supplementary charge sheet No.1 was
dropped vide order dated 11.05.2023 and the witness from
Election Cell DCP/ West District was dropped vide order dated
19.05.2023 as also witness Sunit Goel. Prosecution evidence was
closed on 29.05.2023. STATEMENT OF ACCUSED PERSONS 163. After the prosecution evidence was led, statement of the

accused persons was recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. wherein
all the incriminating material existing on record including the
exhibited documents were put to the accused persons which they
denied and they stated that they were innocent and had been
falsely and wrongly implicated in the present case. The accused
persons denied knowing most of the things that were put to them.
The accused Pankaj Sehrawat stated that the statement of PW2

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.159 of 385
 was recorded under threat by the police officials. He was not
aware what PW9 had stated before the Ld. Magistrate, however,
before the Court, no such statement was made. He stated that
PW11 had spoken the truth and his statement showed how the
police officials had coerced the witness to depose falsely against
him and his family members. He did not know about execution
of GPA but with regard to his involvement, PW12 had stated
correctly. He also stated that false and manipulated statements
had been recorded. He stated that PW13 was forced to make the
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He stated that PW17 had
deposed correctly that there was no kind of threat made. The
statements made were false and fabricated. He stated that PW19
had deposed correctly that there was no kind of threat and it
showed that the witnesses had been planted and manipulated by
the police officials. He stated that the statement recorded by
office of Special Cell was false and fabricated. PW22 had
deposed correctly and the witnesses had been planted and forced
to depose against him by police officials. He stated that false FIR
had been registered against him. He stated that what PW46 had
stated that he had never been told about the plot in Khasra
No.38/24 of Village Shahbad Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar by him and
he had never visited the said plot at any point of time was
correct. He stated that he did not make any disclosure statement.
Further the Scorpio Car bearing No.DL 10CT 0917 was
purchased from his lawful earnings and not from the alleged
extortion money. He stated that the present was a cooked-up case
and sanction was accorded without application of mind. He had
been arrested wrongly and falsely. A sham and bogus proposal

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.160 of 385
 was prepared which was approved without application of mind to
falsely fabricate him and his family members. He stated that
approval was granted without application of mind and sanction
was also without application of mind. The story had been
concocted and witnesses had been planted by the police officials.
Witnesses had been forced to depose against him and their
statements had been manipulated. He further stated that all the
public witnesses had not deposed against him rather, it had come
on record that they were forced and manipulated by the police
officials to depose against him in order to falsely implicate him
in the present case. He stated that he was involved in family
occupation of farming and also in the rental and property dealing
business and was living out of those earnings. 164. The accused Neeraj Sehrawat stated that the statement of

PW2 by the Special Cell was recorded under threat by police
officials. He was not aware what PW9 had stated before the Ld.
Magistrate, however, before the Court no such statement was
made. He stated to the same effect regarding PW11, PW12,
PW19 and PW22 as was stated by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat.
He stated that the witnesses were forced to make the statement.
PW17 had deposed correctly that there was no kind of threat
made and the statement recorded by police was false and
fabricated. He stated that the witnesses had been planted and
forced to depose against him by police officials. A false FIR had
been registered against him. He stated that appeal against his
conviction in FIR No.30/2015 PS Special Cell in which he was
sentenced to 7 years imprisonment after trial was pending before

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.161 of 385
 the Hon'ble High Court and the weapons as deposed by PW62
were planted on him and he was falsely and wrongly implicated
in the said case. He also stated that the Scorpio car bearing
No.DL 10CT 0917 was purchased from his lawful earnings and
not from the alleged extortion money. He stated that he did not
make any disclosure statement. Regarding the sanction and
approval, he stated to the same effect as the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat. He stated that witnesses had been forced to depose
against him and statements had been manipulated. He further
stated to the same effect as the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and that
he had been to various hotels as he was fond of travelling and he
had paid the expenses out of his earnings. Only on that basis the
present case had been lodged. 165. The accused Naveen @ Bali stated that no disclosure

statement of his was recorded. He stated that the sanction was
accorded without application of mind. A sham and bogus
proposal was prepared which was approved without application
of mind to falsely fabricate him and his brother and the approval
was granted without application of mind. He stated that the story
had been concocted and witnesses had been planted by police
officials. Witnesses had been forced to depose against him and
the statements had been manipulated. He further stated to the
same effect as the accused Pankaj and Neeraj and that he was a
wrestler before being arrested in 2011 and in 2015 the case was
falsely planted on him. 166. The accused Rahul @ Kala stated that he did not make any

disclosure statement. He stated to the same effect about proposal

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.162 of 385
 and sanction as was stated by the other accused persons. He also
stated that the witnesses had been forced to depose against him
and the statements had been manipulated. He further stated to
the same effect as the other accused persons. 167. The accused Rambeer Shokeen stated that PW2 had

deposed correctly that there were three maternal uncles (Mamas)
of accused Pankaj and Neeraj namely Jagdev Shokeen, Sanjeev
Shokeen and himself. However, their family relations were not
cordial. He stated that he was illegally arrested and he was not
carrying any alleged weapon with him at the time of his
apprehension. The said alleged weapon was planted upon him by
police officials only to falsely implicate him in the present case
and to strengthen the present case and to destroy his political
career by acting in collusion with politicians. No alleged pistol
was recovered from him. Neither he was interrogated nor his
statement was recorded by anybody. Some blank pages were got
signed by him under coercion by the police officials. He was
falsely implicated in FIR No.65/2016 just to strengthen the
present case and to destroy his political career by acting in
collusion with politicians. He stated that what PW27 had deposed
about the statement of Kamaldeep Dabas was absolutely false.
He was a planted witness and planted by police officials only to
register an FIR against him along with accused Neeraj Sehrawat
only to strengthen the present case and fulfill the ingredients of MCOC Act . He stated that the accused Neeraj Sehrawat did not
visit his office and nobody by the name of Kamaldeep had ever
visited his office. He had been falsely implicated in FIR

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.163 of 385
 No.35/2015 of PS Special Cell after registration of the FIR in
question i.e. FIR No.10/2015 and the same was a result of
malafide afterthought deliberations of police officials at the
instructions of their political masters to strengthen the present
case and fulfill the ingredients of MCOC Act and to destroy his
political career. 168. The accused Rambeer Shokeen further stated that he did

not know anybody by the name of Jasbir Singh @ Goldy. He
stated that PW31 might have identified him as he was a public
figure and was elected as an independent MLA from Mundka
Constituency and he might have seen his photographs on posters,
banners, T.V, Internet etc. He did not know Komal Sharma. He
had not seen Pankaj in his political rallies and his relations were
not very cordial with Pankaj or his family. He admitted that the
name of Neeraj's wife is Arti. No criminal case was pending
against him prior to registration of the FIR in question i.e. FIR
No.10/2015. He had no relation to FIR No.183/2014 registered at
PS Bawana. He stated that PW43 might have been a resident of
his constituency. He did not make any phone call as deposed by
PW45. No notice under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was served upon him
and he did not come across any such notice. The alleged weapon
was planted upon him by the police officials only to falsely
implicate him in the present case and to strengthen the present
case and to destroy his political career by acting in collusion with
politicians. The police officials got some blank pages signed
from him under pressure. No such document was prepared in his
presence. He stated that he was falsely implicated in the present

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.164 of 385
 case. No disclosure statement of his was recorded. He had no
relation with FIR No.179/2012 PS Bawana or with FIR at PS
Samaypur Badli or FIR No.94/2015 PS Shahbad Dairy or with
FIR No.98/2012, PS Prashant Vihar. He stated that no approval
was granted against him. He was not even named in the FIR and
the statements as stated by PW74 as got recorded by him under Section 164 Cr.P.C. were made by the witnesses under threat and
as per the instructions of the police officials as stated by them
and other witnesses. He was not served with any notice
whatsoever. He stated that he had been acquitted in FIR
No.1072/2014 PS Baghpat vide judgment dated 13.09.2022. He
stated that he was a public figure and PW78 might have been a
resident of his constituency. PW78 had categorically stated in his
cross-examination that he had seen him while campaigning and
he had seen him on television. 169. The accused Rambeer Shokeen also stated that no public

witnesses had deposed against him. In fact, it had also come on
record that they were forced and manipulated by the police
officials to depose against him in order to falsely implicate him
in the case. He stated that he was elected as an independent
Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Mundka
Constituency in the year 2013 and his wife Rita Shokeen was
also elected as Municipal Councilor from Nilothi, Delhi ward in
the year 2012 without being from a political family. He was
falsely implicated in the present case by the police officials by
acting in connivance with their political masters and his political
opponents to destroy his political career and to tarnish his image

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.165 of 385
 amongst the society. He did not have cordial relations with his
relatives. He and his family were living out of the agricultural
income and rental income earned by his family out of their
ancestral property. He had been in social service for the past 20
years and he was also rewarded by the then President for the
same with the Ram Dhari Dinkar Award. Prior to 2013 there was
no talk of his relations with the accused Neeraj but after he was
elected MLA in 2013, suddenly his relationship with accused
Neeraj was highlighted in order to tarnish his image. He became
mentally disturbed when he was implicated in the present case
and even at present he was under medication and he was taking
medicines for the last 4-5 years. His wife and children had also
become unwell and his son was under medication for BP and
obesity. He stated that his children were neglected due to the
pendency of the present false case as there was no-one else to
look after them. He had never had any involvement with any
crime nor his family members. The accused persons stated that
they did not wish to lead evidence in defence. ARGUMENTS

ARGUMENTS BY THE LD. ADDL. PP FOR STATE 170. I have heard Shri Gyan Prakash, Ld. Additional PP for

State; Shri Rahul Sahani, Ld. Counsel for accused Pankaj
Sehrawat, Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas @ Bali and Rahul @
Kala and Shri Sumeet Shokeen, Ld. Counsel for the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and perused the record. Written submissions
were also filed on behalf of accused Pankaj Sehrawat, Neeraj

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.166 of 385
 Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas @ Bali and Rahul @ Kala which I have
perused. 171. The Ld. Additional PP for State had fairly conceded that

mostly the witnesses were hostile. PW1 had proved the order for
announcing reward of Rs.1 lakh for anyone giving clue about the
accused Neeraj. PW2 had identified the accused Pankaj and
Neeraj though otherwise he was hostile. PW3 was the UDC who
had proved the Voter ID Card. PW6 had also identified the
accused Neeraj and Pankaj as his cousins and he had a debit card
which was used by Amit Malik @ Bhura who had since been
discharged. The testimony of PW7 was important as she had
stated about the purchase of a car in her name but she had never
used it and the car had never come to her house. PW8 who is her
husband had also stated that he was running his factory in the
premises of the uncle of accused Pankaj and Neeraj and that the
vehicle was purchased at the instance of Jagdev Shokeen. It was
submitted that the vehicle was recovered from Dehradun from
one Sunil Rathi who was a member of the gang of the accused
persons. It was submitted that Jagdev Shokeen had expired so he
could not be examined. Reference was made to the testimony of
PW8 and that it was clear that the person who had purchased the
vehicle had not used it. It was submitted that the vehicle was
purchased from extortion money as Pankaj had no proven source
of income. Reference was also made to the second statement of
PW8 dated 09.03.2021. PW9 had admitted his statement made
under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and there was nothing in the statement
that the same was given wrongly before the Ld. MM. PW10 had

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.167 of 385
 deposed about purchase of two Scorpios for which cash payment
was made and that showed that the vehicles were purchased from
extortion money as no source of income was shown. PW12 was a
property dealer and he was corroborated by PW69 who had
initially stated that he did not remember anything but thereafter
he had identified his signatures on the documents which were put
to him and had proved the execution of the documents. Statement
of PW12 was recorded twice under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and he
had admitted that the total consideration for the sale was Rs.2
crores and Rs.5 lakhs were given as token money. He had also
admitted that his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was
recorded twice and that the said statements had been given
voluntarily. As per the statement of PW12, Rakesh @ Babla had
come to his office. He had also stated that some amount was paid
in cash and some in cheques. 172. The Ld. Additional PP had further argued that from the

statement of PW13, it was evident that fear factor was there. He
met Rakesh at the plot. He also admitted his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. As per him, the maximum amount was given
in cash and some in cheques and they were paid less than the
price of the plot. He had volunteered that Neeraj is the son of his
Mausi. Moreover, his father-in-law said that when the name of
Neeraj was there, they did not want to get into any legal entangle
which showed that there was a dispute and also involvement of
the accused persons. Further during his statement dated
10.03.2021, the cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP
showed fear of Neeraj. PW15 had stated about Neeraj using the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.168 of 385
 debit card of someone to withdraw money from the bank in
Kolkata which money was deposited in Delhi and OTP was
received on the mobile of relative of Neeraj in Delhi. PW16 had
stated about the apprehension of Rambeer Shokeen and he had
filed the charge sheet in that case and also identified him. PW18
had the license to transfer money. Ashish was the brother-in-law
of the accused Neeraj and in Delhi Police. Jasbir had stayed with
Neeraj in Kolkata and Neeraj was getting a forged passport
made. PW19 had admitted stating before the Ld. MM that he had
given Rs.2.5 lakhs to Neeraj. PW20 was the Duty Officer and he
had stated about the registration of FIR. PW21 had deposed
about purchase of two vehicles by accused Pankaj in cash and
even the CA had stated that all the amount in the account was by
way of cash which was the ransom amount. PW24 had stated
about Toyota Etios which had been taken by the accused Pankaj.
PW25 had stated about registration of FIR No.42/15 PS Special
Cell regarding the dispute over the plot. PW26 had deposed
about the ITR of Pankaj. PW27 was the IO of FIR No.35/2015
lodged by Kamaldeep Dabas. 173. It was submitted that PW28 had deposed about the stay of

Vikas in the hotel and infact Neeraj had stayed as Vikas and the
signatures had been proved by the handwriting expert to be of
Neeraj. PW29 had also stated about use of forged documents and
Amit Bhura had stayed with Neeraj who stayed as Vipin. PW31
had shared the room with Neeraj though in a different name. He
admitted his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and that Neeraj
used to foot the bill for dinner. He also identified the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.169 of 385
 Rambeer Shokeen. PW33 was the Passport Officer and he had
stated about the application for passport in the name of Suraj
Singh and the handwriting of Neeraj matched the writing in the
passport application. PW34 had shown that Pankaj was a nephew
of Rambeer Shokeen. PW35 had matched the handwriting on the
election card, hotel record, passport application. PW36 had
deposed that the ration card was not existing in the name in
which the passport was sought. PW37 had stated about the
account where the cheques were deposited. PW38 had stated
about the stay in hotel in Ujjain. PW39 had deposed about
recharge of mobiles of accused persons. PW40 had stated about
liquor being supplied which was used in the elections in Delhi of
Rambeer Shokeen. PW41 was the person who deposited the
money which was later used by the accused Neeraj and he
admitted his mobile number and that Neeraj was his brother-in-
law. 174. It was pointed out that PW42 had deposed in respect of

Rahul @ Kala. It was submitted that there were several FIRs
which were common for the accused persons which showed that
they were gang members. PW43 had stated about his Voter ID
card being used and that he knew the accused Rambeer Shokeen.
The said Voter ID card was used for stay in hotel by forging the
same and for purchase of mobile and Internet calling facility.
PW44 had talked of extortion. PW45 had deposed about the
account opened in the name of Rakesh in the bank of PW45 and
he proved the documents of the account and stated about a call
by accused Rambeer Shokeen to clear the cheques. PW48 proved

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.170 of 385
 the deal of property and he admitted his signatures on the receipt
and the documents of the deal. PW51 had arrested Rambeer
Shokeen and he also deposed about the proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C. PW54 was the owner of the shop from where
the accused had purchased the mobile from Kolkata. PW56 was
the property dealer. PW57 had stated about receiving ransom call
and he got an FIR registered. PW58 had also received a threat
and he got FIR No.246/2015 registered which was pending trial
and Naveen Bali had been arrested in the said case. PW59 had
also stated about threat by Bali and FIR No.94/2015 was got
registered which was pending trial. PW60 had stated about
Gurpreet introducing Neeraj to him though he did not identify the
accused Neeraj and he had stated about Naveen @ Bhanja who
had been discharged. PW62 had arrested Neeraj in FIR
No.30/2015 in which the accused Neeraj had been convicted.
PW63 had arrested Naveen Bali in FIR No.94/2015. PW64 had,
amongst other things, deposed about Scorpio vehicle being
recovered and disclosure statements of accused persons. PW65
had stated about FIR No.98/2012. PW66 had stated about the
specimen writing being taken. 175. The Ld. Addl. PP further submitted that PW67 had proved

the sanction in respect of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. PW68
had arrested accused Pankaj from the airport. PW69 had stated
that most of the things he did not remember but he identified his
signatures and photographs on all the documents regarding the
property deal. PW70 had deposed about the apprehension of
Pankaj along with his mother and he proved the Kalandara. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.171 of 385
 PW71 had stated about getting the vehicle Toyota Etios Liva
from Doiwala. PW72 was the MHCM. PW73 had stated about
giving the approval for registration of FIR and sanction. PW74
was the IO. PW75 had proved the record of FIR No.30/2015 and
PW76 had proved the record of FIR No.7/2015. PW77 had stated
about the charge sheet against the accused Rambeer Shokeen.
From the testimony of PW78 it was clear that he was lying as he
could not tell the address of Bhagwan Dass at whose behest he
had opened the account and he also admitted the bank documents
and that he was receiving cash in account. He was not able to
explain the source of cash so it was clear that it was extortion
money. 176. It was submitted that there were several FIRs in which the

accused persons were common and in some of the cases, they
had been convicted which showed that they were running a gang.
The FIRs also showed extortion and that the accused persons had
no established source of income. Toyota Etios was recovered
from gang members in Dehradun which also showed that they
were running a gang. It was urged that the public witnesses were
hostile out of fear. It was submitted that the loan in respect of the
vehicles was being paid out of the cash which was deposited and
it was earned from the crime syndicate and the accused persons
had properties which they could not account for. 177. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.172 of 385
 argued that the prosecution was not clear what was the role of
accused Rambeer Shokeen in the case. In the proposal for
approval, there was no allegation against him or on what basis he
was made the accused and no approval was granted in his
respect. In fact, till date there was no proposal against him
though sanction was taken against him. FIR No.10/2015 was
registered on 23.02.2015 and prior to that only the FIR at
Baghpat was there but the accused Rambeer Shokeen had not
been named as an accused therein and the charge sheet against
him was filed only in 2016. He had also been acquitted in that
case. He was also not named in the present FIR and not alleged
to be a part of any crime syndicate. No notice was received by
him and even in the Baghpat FIR, till 2016 when the charge sheet
was filed he was not made an accused. The first FIR against
Rambeer Shokeen was registered in April 2015 being FIR
No.35/2015 i.e. two months after the present FIR when approval
was not granted against him. The investigating agency came up
with the witness Kamaldeep who after 4 months made allegations
of an incident of January 2015 and the delay was not explained in
the charge sheet or during cross-examination and the delay was
fatal. He had stated about some boys of Neeraj but he could not
tell who they were. Charge had been framed in the said matter
and matter was listed for PE but the accused had challenged the
order on charge by way of a revision petition and the witnesses
had not supported the case of the prosecution. The witnesses
Kamaldeep and Sandeep Sehrawat had not stated about giving
money. Moreover, PW9 was a resident of Bawana and was
alleged to be the owner of a restaurant in Rajouri Garden but

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.173 of 385
 there was no complaint in Rajouri Garden or Bawana and then
the statement was recorded in Special Cell which was 40 kms
away. PW9 was not even shown as the owner of BNB Shooters
in the agreement and the said case was lodged only to make the
accused Rambeer Shokeen co-accused with accused Neeraj. It
was subsequently submitted that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
had been discharged in the said case by the order of the Ld. ASJ
in the revision petition filed by the accused Rambeer Shokeen
challenging the framing of charge against him. 178. The Ld. Counsel had further argued that thereafter, FIR

No.65/16 was got registered against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen under Arms Act in which he was arrested. The charge
sheet was filed and charge had been framed which was
challenged by way of a revision petition. It was urged that the
weapon had been planted upon the accused and no fingerprints
were taken and there was no investigation as to the source of the
weapon. The accused was arrested from a public place outside a
school at 6:00 p.m. but no public witness was joined. Moreover,
there were three persons in the vehicle and as per the case of the
prosecution, the accused Rambeer Shokeen had got down and
was arrested whereas the other two had escaped and the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was in possession of the weapon. There was
no allegation that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had made any
effort to fire and the only purpose was to affect the political
career of the accused Rambeer Shokeen as he was the only
independent MLA in 2012 and he did not give support to anyone.
It was given in media that AK-47 had been recovered from the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.174 of 385
 accused Rambeer Shokeen but in fact it was recovered from the
accused Neeraj and the accused Rambeer Shokeen was not even
an accused in that case. It was submitted that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen had been implicated in the FIR in Baghpat but
prior to that, no notice was given to him by the Baghpat Police. It
was admitted that as per the legal position, charge sheet could be
filed against an accused under MCOC Act if, even during
investigation certain cases were registered against him. However,
the accused Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated in the
present case as per the Ld. Counsel, after the IO did not get
approval against him as the directions were to implicate him to
hamper his political career. It was submitted that the wife of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was also a politician and she had won
as a Councilor and it was the constituency of Parvesh Verma who
was the son of Saheb Singh Verma. It was a hot seat but the
accused Rambeer Shokeen won as an independent candidate and
thereafter he did not give support to any party so he was targeted.
After the elections, everyone started talking about accused
Rambeer Shokeen being the Mama of accused Neeraj. 179. It was pointed out that notice to the accused Rambeer

Shokeen was given under Section 160 Cr.P.C. as also to Jagdev
Shokeen which was mentioned in the application of 20.04.2015
seeking issuance of NBWs against the accused Rambeer Shokeen
moved by ACP Manishi Chandra. However, if Rambeer Shokeen
was sought to be made an accused, the notice should have been
under Section 41A Cr.P.C. and not under Section 160 Cr.P.C.
Jagdev had not been made an accused and PW74 did not

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.175 of 385
 remember as to what prompted them to convert Rambeer
Shokeen from a witness to an accused. PW73 had also stated that
he did not find any evidence against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. It was submitted that the present case had destroyed the
family and political career of the accused Rambeer Shokeen and
he, his wife and children all had medical ailments and the
medical record had been filed along with the bail application.
The case of the prosecution was that he had facilitated the crime
syndicate. The prosecution had examined Prashant Kaushik who
had stated in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that he had
given his Voter ID card to Rambeer Shokeen who got the photos
changed and used it for accused Neeraj. PW41 Ashish Nain had
stated that he was given money by the accused Rambeer Shokeen
to put in the account to be used by the accused Neeraj. Jasbir was
also asked by the accused Rambeer Shokeen to give money and
to stay with the accused Neeraj and to help him to abscond.
However, the IO did not get approval on this story and then the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated in the present
FIR. It was argued that all the witnesses had categorically stated
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was not involved in any
transaction or facilitation and he was not a witness to any
transaction and there was nothing to show that he was helping the
other accused persons. In 2015 and 2016 everyone had a mobile
but there was no single scientific evidence on record against the
accused Rambeer Shokeen of helping the other accused persons
and there was no single transaction of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen with the other accused persons. It was submitted that
even if it was believed that Kamaldeep had given Rs.2.5 lakhs,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.176 of 385
 the accused Neeraj could not have purchased two Scorpios, a
Toyota Etios in Rs.2.5 lakhs and also travelled to so many places
and also sponsored the elections of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. It was submitted that there was no evidence to
corroborate that any monetary help was received by the accused
Rambeer Shokeen from any other accused. 180. The Ld. Counsel had further submitted that the prosecution

had relied on the transaction in respect of the plot and that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had extended threat and Rs.1 crore
had gone to him and in the charge sheet it was stated that the
accused Neeraj had given Rs.1 crore for elections of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen. It was the case of the prosecution that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was material in the land deal and he
was a facilitator and a part of the syndicate and the syndicate
resorted to extortion through land deal. The witnesses who were
involved in the land deal were examined but not even a single
witness had said that in the land deal, any money was given to
the accused Rambeer Shokeen. Even otherwise, there was a legal
hurdle in the land deal and reference was made to Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act and it was submitted that the said
documents had not been proved as per law. It was pointed out
that only photocopies of the documents had been produced and
not the originals and photocopies were put to the witnesses. None
of the witnesses had stated that the originals were with them or
that they were lost or were in their custody. Even if the
documents were proved, they were hit by Sections 91 and 92 of
the Evidence Act as no oral evidence could be led in

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.177 of 385
 contradiction to the documents which documents showed that the
deal was only for Rs.25 to 30 lakhs. No seller or buyer had stated
that they had given on paper Rs.2 crores and as such the
prosecution had failed to prove the amount of the deal. It was
asservated that there was no witness on record who could link the
accused Rambeer Shokeen with any of the allegations. PW78
Rakesh Jatav received the money in his account and also took out
the money but he had stated that he had opened the account at the
instance of the seller Bhagwan Dass and he had taken out the
money and given to him and the accused Rambeer Shokeen did
not come into the picture. FIR No.42/2015 was registered at the
instance of the seller Bhagwan Dass but the FIR did not mention
the accused Rambeer Shokeen or who took the money to the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and there was no recovery from him
or at his instance. 181. It was further argued that as regards the Toyota Etios, it

was nowhere deposed that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was
material in the purchase of the same and the only allegation was
against Jagdev and the accused Rambeer Shokeen could not be
made an accused and put to trial for the acts of his brother. It was
submitted that the prosecution had not proved that there was any
syndicate and there was nothing which could connect the accused
Rambeer Shokeen to the other accused. For the purpose of MCOC Act , organized crime was to be proved and it had to be
proved that there was a nexus between the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and the other accused but the same was not shown and
there was no document or witness to the same. As regards FIR

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.178 of 385
 No.35/2015 Neeraj and Rambeer had been shown to be the
accused but PW2 and PW9 had not stated anything and the
accused Rambeer Shokeen did not have any other common FIR
with the other accused persons. The prosecution had to prove
continuing unlawful activity but here there was no activity to
connect the accused Rambeer Shokeen and nothing was shown
which was unlawful. It was vehemently argued that not even a
single ingredient of MCOC Act had been proved. It was the
allegation that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had acquired
wealth out of the crime syndicate but there were letters from the
SDM and revenue authority that stated that there was no property
owned by the accused Rambeer Shokeen. In the FIR at Baghpat,
accused Rambeer had been acquitted on 13.09.2022. The first
charge sheet was of 17.03.2015 which was against Sampat and
Gopi and there was no whisper about the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and in the present case, the FIR was registered in
February 2015. PW73 had stated that there was no evidence
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen and he had stated that he
had gone through the record and only Section 3 (4) MCOC Act
was made out but the same could not be proved. It was urged that
the sanction was not as per law and the basic ingredients of MCOC Act were not proved against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and there were no witnesses or documents which could
connect the accused Rambeer Shokeen with the alleged offences
or with the alleged syndicate or the co-accused. 182. It was contended that the accused Rambeer Shokeen could

not be made an accused only on assumptions or as he was the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.179 of 385
 relative of accused Neeraj and Pankaj for acts done by them.
PW57 had not deposed about the cheques of Rakesh but about
the single cheque to one another Rakesh and it was the account
of that person. PW40 had also made no allegation and the
election results were declared in August, 2013 and there were no
elections in December, 2013. PW43 had stated that he had not
given his Voter ID card to the accused Rambeer Shokeen and the
persons who had identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen were
those who were residents of his constituency or police persons
who had arrested him and they had explained in cross-
examination and examination in chief that they had met him in
rallies and seen him on TV and there was no other corroboration.
He was identified only as he was an MLA and a public figure.
PW45 was the Manager of Indian Bank and he had stated that it
could be possible that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had called
him but it could be anyone from his office and it was not proved
who had called, when the call was made and the call was not
verified and he also stated that there was no requirement of any
call. He did not remember the number from which the call was
made or the number on which the call was made. PW69 had
admitted his signatures and above the same, it was written 'true
copy' but he could not say who had written the same. There was
no reason why he had signed twice but his signatures appeared
twice on all the documents and the documents showed that the
deal was only for Rs.25 lakhs and the transactions were through
bank accounts. The receipt was on record. It was submitted that
one could not rely on ocular evidence when the documents were
on record. The weapon was planted on the accused Rambeer

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.180 of 385
 Shokeen and had no bearing on this case and it could have a
bearing only if the weapon was used in the offence but that was
not shown. It was submitted that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
was managing his family out of rental and agricultural income
and they were three brothers. 183. As regards the offence under Section 174 A IPC, it was

submitted that the same was a result of the medical condition of
the accused Rambeer Shokeen. It was submitted that the order
sheets would show that the accused was suffering from various
ailments and mental issues and since April 2017 he had been
going regularly to AIIMS and other hospitals for treatment and
was on medication for various ailments and was still under
treatment. Reference was made to the order dated 19.04.2017
which was in context of the application for interim bail filed by
the accused on ground of medical illness of the wife. It was
submitted that the accused had escaped from custody on
26.09.2018 and he had escaped due to mental illness and he was
under medication and was with two police officials when he was
taken for treatment to the hospital. The same found mention in
the order sheet dated 28.02.2018 and at that time, the accused
was under custody of Ghaziabad police. On 01.10.2018 NBWs
were issued against him but the same were not served as the
premises were found locked. On 23.10.2018 proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C. were initiated but they could not be served due
to lapse of time. Fresh process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was
issued on 05.12.2018 and the accused was declared an absconder
on 23.02.2019. It was fairly submitted that the factum of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.181 of 385
 escaping was staring at the accused but he was of unsound mind
and on the day of the escape, he was unable to understand the
consequences of his act. It was further submitted that it was not a
case that the accused was again arrested but he had himself
surrendered in December 2020 which was mentioned in the order
sheet dated 21.01.2021. It was also not the case that during the
period that he had escaped from custody, he had committed
another crime after escape or that he escaped with the assistance
of any other accused and in fact he had himself surrendered. 184. It was contended that vide order dated 20.09.2018, the

accused Rambeer Shokeen had been granted interim bail on the
ground of medical ailment of his wife which would be valid till
05.10.2018 but despite the interim bail order, he was not released
as the release order had not reached Ghaziabad and despite the
order of interim bail he had escaped. It was argued that if the
accused knew the consequences of his act, then he would not
have escaped as he had already been granted interim bail by the
Court. Further reference was made to the order dated 12.04.2018
by which extension of earlier interim bail was sought and it was
noted in the order sheet that the medical documents of the
accused had been verified and had been found to be genuine. It
had also been recorded that the behaviour of the accused had
been found to be abnormal and he had been referred to IHBAS
which was the only Government Institute to take care of mental
illness. Further the medical documents showed that he had
suicidal tendencies and he was suffering from severe depression
which was also recorded in the order of 15.05.2018 for extension

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.182 of 385
 of interim bail and that the documents stood verified. The
medical documents already formed part of the record as they
were annexed with the application for interim bail and were also
received from jail and had been supplied to the counsel for the
accused which showed that the accused had been continuously
referred to IHBAS from the jail itself. However, there was no
document of treatment of the accused after he had escaped till he
surrendered. It was submitted that even after the accused had
surrendered, he had been under medical treatment in AIIMS and
even the reports from the jail were to the effect that he was under The prosecution had failed to prove that he was facilitating or he
was a member of any crime syndicate or that he was harboring
any other accused and no witness had supported any allegation
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 186. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Pankaj Sehrawat, Neeraj,

Naveen and Rahul Kala had emphasized the importance of
approval and that if the approval for registration of FIR was
defective, it could not be relied upon. It was submitted that the
approval in the instant case was without application of mind and
the FIR did not by itself disclose commission of any cognizable
offence or of any organized crime and the approval had to be
seen through the lens of Section 23 MCOC Act in which three
conditions had been laid down as mandatory. If even one of them
was defective, then the other conditions did not stand. As per this
Section, the investigation had to be by an officer of a particular
rank. Reference was made to the cross-examination of PW74
who was the IO and that the last FIR which was registered
against the accused persons was of 2014 and it was also
submitted that the FIR was not registered on the basis of
commission of an offence but on the discretion of the IO. It was
submitted that the FIR did not show any overt act or commission
of offence and there was admission on the part of the IO that
neither the proposal nor the FIR disclosed commission of any
fresh offence. It was submitted that as per the settled law, where

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.184 of 385
 has to be continuity and the accused persons could not be
convicted only on the basis of past acts as otherwise the IO
would only collect the previous charge sheets and file the charge
sheet under MCOCA. The continuity was in the sense that if
there was a threat today, by itself it would not attract MCOC Act but if in the past also, there was more than one case of a similar
nature, then it would be treated as an unlawful activity in
continuity with the previous acts and MCOC Act would be
attracted but the same was absent in the present case. It was
submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court had also emphasized
the importance of approval and that one condition of Section 23 MCOCA was dependent on the other and they operated at
different stages and as such the trial was vitiated. 187. On facts, the Ld. Counsel submitted that the accusation

against the accused persons was of extortion but none of the
witnesses had supported the case of the prosecution and they had
not stated that money had been extorted from them. It was not
shown by the prosecution that the accused persons had collected
money or property by using violence. Regarding the deal of the
plot, 14 witnesses were examined who showed transfer of money
but they did not say anything about the accused persons or
anything which would connect them to the transactions or the
money trail. The vehicles purchased by accused Pankaj were on
installment and his IT details were also on record which were not
negated by the prosecution and the vehicle was purchased from
the sources of the accused. There was nothing to show that the
money was received by him by running a racket and there was

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.185 of 385
 nothing to connect him to any of the activities. It was urged that
technically and legally, the offence under MCOCA was not made
out and the entire trial was vitiated and there was no evidence of
any nature to show any overt or criminal act or to show that the
accused persons were involved in extortion or land grabbing. It
was also contended that the Hon'ble Supreme Court had
categorically held that even Section 465 Cr.P.C. would not apply
in such cases and the defects were not curable. 188. Written submissions were also filed on behalf of the

accused Neeraj Sehrawat; Navin Bali; Rahul Kala and Pankaj
Sehrawat submitting that for charging and prosecuting a person
for organized crime or being a member of an organized crime
syndicate, it would be necessary to prove that the person
concerned had indulged in: It was submitted that what was evident was that besides the past
charge sheets, there has to be an activity which indicates
continuity of offence or in other words organized crime has to be
continuing unlawful activity and therefore, unless there is an act
or omission indicating continuation of unlawful activity there
would be no question of commission of organized crime. It was
contended that mere proof of filing a charge sheet was not
enough and it was only one of its requisites for constituting the
offence of organized crime. If only the past charge sheet were to
be enough to constitute an offence of organized crime, it would
have offended the requirement of Article 20 (1) of the
Constitution and possibly Article 20 (2) as well, and in any case Section 300 Cr.P.C. If proof of filing two chargesheets was
enough to establish an offence of organized crime, there may be
no occasion to carry out any investigation, other than collecting
copies of charge sheets. Consequently, it would be unnecessary
for high-ranking police officers to wield the power to allow
recording of information or to sanction prosecution after such
chargesheets are collected. 189. Further, if "organized crime" were to refer to only more

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.187 of 385
 than one charge sheet filed, the classification of crime in Sections
3 (1) (i) and 3 (1) (ii) on the basis of the consequence of resulting
in death or otherwise would have been phrased differently,
namely, by providing that "if any one of such offence has
resulted in death", since the continuing unlawful activity requires
more than one offence. It was contended that reference to "such
offence" in Section 3 (1) implied a specific act or omission. In
the present case as conceded by the Investigating Officer PW74,
the FIR did not disclose the commission of a fresh act/ offence by
the accused persons, rather the IO in his discretion had got the
present case registered and the accused had been charge-sheeted
and prosecuted only on the basis of previous charge sheets.
Reliance in this regard was placed on the judgment of the
Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in Prafulla & Ors. v. State of
Maharashtra MANU/MH/1909/2008 wherein it had been
settled that mere proof of filing charge sheets in the past was not
enough and there had to be indulgence in any crime which could
be said to be a continuation of past criminal activity, in other
words, there had to be a fresh act/ omission. It was submitted that
the ratio in Prafulla & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (supra)
had been approved and confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in State of Maharashtra v. Shiva @ Shivaji Ramji Sonawane
& Ors. (2015) 14 SCC 272. 190. It was highlighted that in the present case, the proposal for

invoking Section 3 MCOC Act sent by the IO on 14.02.2015
(Ex.PW74/A) did not contain or disclose the commission of
organized crime or in other words, it did not disclose any overt

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.188 of 385
 act or omission which would amount to a continuation of
unlawful activity carried out by use of force for the purpose of
pecuniary gain with which the accused was charged. The
proposal contained the list of various cases ranging from the year
2010 to 2014-Neeraj Sehrawat; 2011 to 2014 -Naveen Bali;
2012 to 2014 -Rahul Kala and 2010 to 2012 -Pankaj Sehrawat
and undisputedly the charge sheets in all the matters were filed
and cognizance was taken. It was asserted that a cautious perusal
of the proposal would reveal that the provisions of MCOC Act sought to be proposed were based only on past criminal activity
without there being a fresh act in continuation of the previous
unlawful activity. In the present case, the proposal dated
14.02.2015 for approval for recording information, the approval
order dated 20.02.2015 (Ex.PW73/A) and recording of first
information (Ex.PW20/2) did not relate to any actual continuing
unlawful activity. It had been conceded by the IO in his cross "It
is correct that proposal dated 14.02.2015 does not disclose any
act or commission after the last case in respect of which FIR was
registered qua any of the said 4 accused persons." It was pointed
out that the approval for recording information required under Section 23 of MCOC Act was not an empty formality. The
provisions of MCOC Act could be invoked only by strictly
complying with the provisions of Section 23 of the MCOC Act.
The competent authority was duty-bound to apply its mind to the
attendant facts while permitting the registration of any FIR under MCOC Act or granting sanction for prosecution. 191. It was further submitted that the law on the point of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.189 of 385
 reading and understanding a statutory provision which contains a
non-obstante clause as well as a provision which is clothed in
negative words is well settled. A non-obstante clause is a
legislative device which is usually employed to give overriding
effect to certain provisions over some contrary provisions, that
may be found either in the same enactment or some other
enactment. Reference in this regard was made to the judgment in Union of India and Anr. v. G.M. Kokil and Ors . MANU/SC/0210/1984 : (1984) IILL J20SC; Maru Ram v.
Union of India and Ors. MANU/SC/0159/1980 : 1980 Cri.L.J.
1440 and A.G. Varadarajulu and Anr. v. State of T.N. and
Ors. MANU/SC/0232/1998 : [1998] 2 SCR 390. It was
highlighted that it was well settled that the mode of showing a
clear intention of the legislature that the provision enacted was a
mandatory one was by clothing the command in negative form. It
was submitted that the negative words are ordinarily used as a
legislative device to make a statute imperative and reliance in
this regard was placed on the judgments in Mannalal Khetan v.
Kedar Nath Khetan and Ors. MANU/SC/0060/1976 : [1977] 2 SCR190 and M. Pentiah and Ors. v. Muddala Veeramallappa
and Ors. MANU/SC/0263/1960 : [1961] 2 SCR 295). It was
submitted that it was also the well-settled principle of law that
when the law requires a thing to be done in a particular manner, it
should be done in that manner and not in any other manner, and
the said principle would have to be followed more strictly when
an action is accompanied by serious consequences. It was
asservated that Section 23 of the MCOC Act which opens with a
non-obstante clause and is further clothed with negative words

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.190 of 385
 clearly discloses the mandate of the legislature that the
cognizance of the offences under the MCOC Act should not be in
a routine course, but only upon the facts disclosing the
applicability thereof and satisfaction of the officer of a high rank,
the minimum being of the rank of Deputy Inspector General of
Police in that regard. In fact, the officer of such a high rank was
required to decide about the approval even for the recording of
FIR in relation to any offence under the MCOC Act . It was
reiterated that the mere filing of charge sheets in the past was not
sufficient to register fresh FIR under MCOC Act against any
accused persons. Notably, for the registration of FIR under MCOC Act , a fresh act had to be committed, which had not
happened in the case at hand and PW74 Manishi Chandra, DCP
who was posted as ACP, Special Cell and prepared the proposal
for approval for registration of case FIR under MCOC Act had
admitted in his cross-examination that "it is correct that the FIR
per se does not disclose the commission of any fresh offence
except those mentioned in the proposal and is a verbatim
reproduction of the contents of the proposal." 192. It was submitted that similarly, PW73 S.N. Shrivastava,

who passed the approval order dated 20.02.2015 had conceded in
his cross-examination that "I do not recall if any fresh act
unlawful act was committed by the accused persons due to
passage of time. However, the same is a matter of record." It was
submitted that the same obviously disclosed that the approving
authority had to apply its mind about the applicability of the
provisions of the MCOC Act before allowing the recording of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.191 of 385
 FIR, that is, a commission of a fresh offence and for that purpose,
there must be, prima facie, satisfaction about the commission of
offence of organized crime under the MCOC Act by the person or
persons against whom the FIR is to be recorded, which was
absent in the present case. It was argued that it was clear that
every act in Section 23 MCOC Act depended upon the other and
even if one act was not performed as provided for in the Section,
the Court would not have jurisdiction to take cognizance, and any
proceeding adopted thereunder would also be without jurisdiction
and would vitiate the trial, so, grant of approval Ex.PW73/A was
without there being any organized crime, hence the same had
been granted without application of mind rendering the
prosecution of the accused for the offences under MCOC Act vitiated. Reliance was placed in this regard on the judgments in Prafulla & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (supra); State of
Maharashtra v. Shiva (supra); Ismail Sheikh v. State of
Maharashtra MANU/MH/0173/2005 and Ashraf Khan v. State
of Gujarat MANU/SC/0790/2012. 193. It was argued that admittedly, the Investigating Officer

himself was the complainant of this case which was against the
settled propositions of law and cannons of principles of justice. A
fair investigation which was but the very foundation of a fair
trial, necessarily postulated that the informant and the
investigator must not be the same person. Justice must not only
be done but must appear to be done also. Any possibility of bias
or a pre-determined conclusion had to be excluded. It was urged
that it was impermissible and beyond comprehension to allow a

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.192 of 385
 person to (i) make an accusation; (ii) the fact that he accuses is
"sufficient ingredient" to make a penal offence; (iii) "investigate"
that accusation which he himself makes; and (iv) become a
"witness" to prove the accusation and then based on his
testimony a person is convicted and punished. It was thus
submitted that in the present case, the proposal and its grant
thereof was without application of mind as the same did not
disclose the commission of an organized crime as mandated
under the law and the FIR and subsequently the sanction itself
were without application of mind and bad in law; hence, the trial
of the accused persons stood vitiated and was also unsustainable
in the eyes of law being based only on the previous charge sheets
filed against the accused persons. Reliance was also placed on
the judgment in John D'Souza v. Assistant Commissioner of
Police, B-1/Special, DCB, CID and Ors. Criminal Writ Petition
No.147 of 2007 decided on 30.04.2007. ARGUMENTS IN REBUTTAL 194. The Ld. Additional PP for State in rebuttal had submitted

that as regards Section 174A IPC, there was a categorical
averment of the IO that the wife had appeared before him and she
was informed of the proceedings. It was submitted that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had knowledge of the proceedings
and he had escaped, his address was the same and there was no
procedural lapse. All ingredients of the offence under Section
174A IPC stood proved. Moreover, legal insanity and medical
insanity were different and even the latter was not proved in the
instant case. It was submitted that it was for the accused to show

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.193 of 385
 that he was not in a position to understand the nature of his act or
that it was wrong or illegal and in fact if he was insane, he would
have been wandering here and there whereas he had duly escaped
and then surrendered so he knew the consequences of his act.
Reliance was also placed on Section 222 of Cr.P.C. and it was
submitted that Sections 3(2) and 3(3) of MCOC Act included
being a member of an organized crime syndicate and as such the
accused could be convicted for being a member of an organized
crime syndicate under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act as it was not
the case that the accused had been misled on the charge. It was
also submitted by the Ld. Additional PP that Section 2 (c ) MCOC Act defined 'organized crime' and the prosecution had to
establish that the unlawful activity was done with violence or
with a view to gain pecuniary advantage and only these two parts
had to be established and it was not for the prosecution to show
that there was any fresh act when the approval was taken and
there was no requirement of any fresh act. The only requirement
was that in 10 years there should have been more than one charge
sheet whereas in the present case, there were several charge
sheets and the accused persons had never challenged the order
taking cognizance or framing of charge. DISCUSSION 195. It is the settled proposition of law that to bring home a

conviction, the prosecution has to establish its case beyond the
pale of reasonable doubt by establishing an unbroken chain of
events, leading to commission of the offence. It is also a settled
proposition of law that once this chain is broken or a plausible

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.194 of 385
 theory of another possibility is shown, the accused becomes
entitled to the benefit of doubt which ultimately leads to his/her
acquittal ( Sadhu Singh v. State of Punjab 1997(3) Crimes 55).
The cardinal rule in criminal law is that the prosecution has to
prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and the benefit of doubt
has to be given to the accused. In Batcu Venkateshwarlu v.
Public Prosecutor High Court of AP (SC) 2009 (1) RCR
(Criminal) 290: 2009 (1) RAJ: 2008 (15) SCALE 212, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as under: Now on the basis of the testimony of the witnesses and the
documents on record, the Court has to scrutinize whether the
prosecution is able to prove the offences with which the accused
persons have been charged against the accused persons beyond
reasonable doubt. 196. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused persons

were running a crime syndicate and extending threats, inflicting

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.195 of 385
 crimes including murder in order to extort money/grab land and
were members of crime syndicate and doing continuing unlawful
activity in the form of organized crime i.e. extortion from
wealthy persons of money or land grabbing. The involvements of
the different accused persons were also stated as per which the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat (A1) was involved in 2 cases, Neeraj
Sehrawat (A2) was involved in 23 criminal cases, accused
Naveen Dabas @ Bali (A4) was involved in 20 criminal cases,
Rahul Dabas @ Kala (A8) was involved in 8 criminal cases and
accused Rambeer Shokeen (A10) was involved in 1 criminal
case. It is also the case of the prosecution that there are 7 cases in
which the accused persons were involved as a crime syndicate
being FIR No.575/14 PS Baghpat, UP, FIR No.98/12 PS Prashant
Vihar, Delhi, FIR No.69/10 PS Hari Nagar, Delhi, FIR No.77/12
PS Bawana, Delhi, FIR No.53/12 PS Bawana, Delhi, FIR
No.99/12 PS Bawana, Delhi and FIR No.179/12 PS Bawana,
Delhi and it is the case of the prosecution that the said FIRs
showed that the accused persons were involved in the extortion
of money from wealthy people on the basis of threatening them
by exploiting their position as dreaded criminals. 197. Coming to the legal position, the foremost condition for

applicability of MCOC Act is that there must be an "organized
crime syndicate". A. "Organized crime syndicate" is defined in Section 2(f) of
MCOC Act as under: Thus, the "organized crime syndicate" must be indulging in
activities of "organized crime." B. The definition of "organized crime" is contained in Section
2(e) of MCOC Act which reads as under: From the definition of "organized crime", the ingredients of
"organized crime" may be culled out as under: i) there has to be continuing unlawful
 activity. ii) such activity is carried out by an
 individual, either singly or jointly. iii) such an activity is committed either by a
 member of an organized crime syndicate or
 on behalf of such syndicate. iv) there is use of violence or threat of
 violence or intimidation or coercion or other
 unlawful means. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.197 of 385 v) such activity is committed with the
 objective of gaining pecuniary benefits or
 gaining undue economic advantage or other
 advantage for the person who undertakes
 such an activity or any other person or
 promoting insurgency. Thus, for "organized crime" there must be "continuing unlawful
activity". C. "Continuing unlawful activity" is defined in Section 2(d) of
MCOC Act as under: The ingredients of "continuing unlawful activity" can be stated to
be as under: D. In the instant case, charge has been framed against the
accused persons for the offences under Sections 3 and 4 of
MCOC Act which are the penal sections. Section 3 of MCOC Act
reads as under: 4. Punishment for possessing unaccountable
 wealth on behalf of member of organized crime
 syndicate. - If any person on behalf of a member of
 an organized crime syndicate is, or, at any time has
 been, in possession of movable or immovable
 property which he cannot satisfactorily account for,
 he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
 which shall not be less than three years but which

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.200 of 385
 may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to
 fine, subject to a minimum fine of rupees one lakh
 and such property shall also be liable for
 attachment and forfeiture, as provided by Section 20." Thus, Section 3 of MCOC Act punishes the commission of
offence of organized crime itself or even abetting or attempting
to commit or advocating the same as well as being a member of
an organized crime syndicate or harboring or concealing any
member of an organized crime syndicate and holding of property
derived or obtained from commission of an organized crime or
that which has been acquired through the organized crime
syndicate. Section 4 MCOC Act sets out that if any person (even
not being a member of an organized crime syndicate) on behalf
of a member of an organized crime syndicate is in possession of
any movable or immovable property which he cannot
satisfactorily account for, he shall be punished with
imprisonment from 3 years to life imprisonment and fine. Such
property is also liable for attachment and forfeiture. E. In the present case, the accused Neeraj Sehrawat has been
charged with running an 'organized crime syndicate' and for
being a member of the said 'organized crime syndicate' and also
for committing organized crime and accused Pankaj Sehrawat,
Naveen Dabas @ Bali and Rahul Dabas @ Kala have been
charged for being members of the 'organized crime syndicate' and
for committing 'organized crime' i.e. under Sections 3(1) and 3(4) of the MCOC Act (though the charge mentions only Section 3 of
MCOC Act) while the accused Rambeer Shokeen has been
charged with harboring, concealing and organizing the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.201 of 385
 concealment of accused Neeraj Sehrawat; of providing accused
Neeraj Sehrawat an HDFC debit card; of receiving money from
the crime syndicate and for holding money and property derived/
obtained from the commission of organized crime or which had
been acquired through organized crime syndicate and for being in
possession of movable property which he could not satisfactorily
account for and which was obtained/ acquired from proceeds of
organized crime committed by organized crime syndicate i.e.
under Sections 3(2) , 3(3) , 3(5) and Section 4 of MCOC Act. As
such it was for the prosecution to establish that there was
organized crime which was committed and/ or that an organized
crime syndicate was being run. 198. The investigating agency and the prosecution had relied

upon several FIRs to show the existence of an organized crime
syndicate and continuing unlawful activity and in the proposal
for approval for registration of FIR, 14 FIRs were specifically
referred to in this regard. The same are detailed below in a
tabular form along with their present status and whether the
documents of the said cases were admitted by the accused
persons. The investigating agency and the prosecution had further referred
to the other cases against the accused persons, and the
involvements of the different accused persons who are facing
trial before this Court can be seen through the following table: 199. It is the case of the prosecution that there are several cases

in which the accused persons were involved as an organized
crime syndicate and which reflected continuing unlawful activity
being FIR No.575/14 PS Baghpat, UP, FIR No.98/12 PS Prashant
Vihar, Delhi, FIR No.69/10 PS Hari Nagar, Delhi, FIR No.77/12
PS Bawana, Delhi, FIR No.53/12 PS Bawana, Delhi, FIR
No.99/12 PS Bawana, Delhi and FIR No.179/12 PS Bawana,
Delhi and it is the case of the prosecution that the said FIRs
showed that the accused persons were involved in the extortion
of money from wealthy people on the basis of threatening them
by exploiting their position as dreaded criminals. Reference was
made in the proposal to FIR No.180/12 PS Samaypur Badli but
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.213 of 385
 in the said FIR, only the accused Neeraj Bawana out of the
present accused persons is named; similar is the position with
regard to FIR No.192/2012 PS Sadar Panipat, Haryana, FIR
No.194/2012 PS Sadar Panipat, Haryana (accused Neeraj was
acquitted in the said case on 18.04.2021), FIR No.437/2011 PS
Jhajjar, Haryana (in which accused Naveen @ Bali was also
stated to be involved though the accused Neeraj has subsequently
been discharged on 18.10.2022), FIR No.234/2012 PS Prashant
Vihar, FIR No.40/2013 PS Crime Branch, Delhi (in this case
Rahul @ Kala was also stated to be involved but the accused
Neeraj Bawana already stood discharged vide order dated
24.09.2013). As regards FIR No.69/10 PS Hari Nagar, Delhi, it
was lodged on the allegations that on 14.03.2010 the accused
Neeraj who was then an undertrial prisoner along with Somveer
and Pradeep who were lodged in Jail No.1 Tihar obstructed
public servants and caused hurt by using criminal force to deter
them from discharging their official duty on which the said FIR
was registered under Sections 186 , 353 , 332 , 34 / 174 A IPC. It
may be mentioned that in the said FIR, none of the sections of
extortion were invoked. Cognizance was taken on 02.06.2010
and the accused Neeraj and Somveer were convicted on
24.05.2013 and one accused Pradeep had pleaded guilty of the
charge. However, the said FIR cannot be said to have any alleged
objective of pecuniary gain by the said acts and there is even
nothing to show that the said acts were done to gain any undue
advantage or other advantage over any rival gang (on the aspect
as to what constitutes "other advantage" in the definition of
organized crime contained in Section 2(e) of MCOC Act,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.214 of 385
 reference may be made to the judgment in State of Maharashtra
v. Jagain Gagansingh Nepali @ Jagya & Ors. Criminal Appeal
No.20/2011 decided by Full Bench of the Hon'ble High Court of
Bombay in August, 2011 and referred to in the judgment of the
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in State Govt. of NCT of Delhi v.
Khalil Ahmed Crl . Rev. P. No.42/2012 decided on 23.04.2012)
and as such cannot be relied upon for the purpose of showing
existence of organized crime though the documents of conviction
were admitted on 22.02.2020 by the accused persons. It may also
be mentioned that there is nothing to show that any action had
been taken against Somveer and Pradeep for invoking the
provisions of MCOC Act nor were they arrested in the present
case as members of an organized crime syndicate. 200. The prosecution had also relied upon FIR No.98/2012 PS

Prashant Vihar which was registered under Sections 307 , 452 , 506 , 120B and 212 / 34 IPC and 25/27 Arms Act on the allegations
that in February 2012, Naveen @ Bali informed his associates
that a message had been conveyed to Proprietor of Pardesi
Property for paying Rs.35 lakhs as protection money but he was
not paying the demanded money. The associates were directed to
approach the office of Pardesi properties to extend threat and to
open fire so as to compel the proprietor to meet the demand. On
28.02.2012 the syndicate members threatened the persons sitting
in the office by firing on which the said FIR was registered.
During the course of investigation accused Neeraj, Naveen and
others were arrested and the vehicle used in the commission of
the offence, that is Maruti Alto Car was also seized which vehicle

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.215 of 385
 was also used in the commission of offence reported vide FIR
No.78/12 under Section 25 Arms Act PS Bawana and stood
registered in the name of Narender, father of Rahul @ Kala.
Charge sheet was filed in the said case. 201. In this regard PW65 Shri Ish Kumar was examined who

had stated that on 28.02.2012 at about 1:30 p.m. he along with
others was sitting in their office and two persons aged about 25
years, came to their office and asked where their boss was. He
had stated about them taking out their pistols and firing but the
same did not hit them and they ran back into the room. He got
FIR No.98/2012 PS Prashant Vihar lodged. He had given his
evidence in Rohini Court in the matter. He stated that when the
accused persons in the FIR were arrested, he had gone to PS
Bawana and identified one Manjeet and he did not remember the
name of the other person. Certified copy of the FIR along with
other documents and statement of PW65 recorded as PW2 in the
said case are Ex.C-3 (colly). During cross-examination by the
Ld. Additional PP, he could not say if he had identified Naveen
Dabas or Rahul Kala and in Court he did not identify any of the
accused persons, even when they were pointed out by the Ld.
Additional PP. As such PW65 had stated about identifying only
Manjeet but Manjeet is not an accused before this Court. He did
not identify either Naveen or Rahul Dabas. As per the record,
cognizance had been taken in the said case and there were five
accused persons i.e. Manjeet @ Mangal, Virender, Bhupender
Singh Ahlawat, Sabinder and Naveen @ Bali. Thereafter,
accused Neeraj and Naveen @ Bali were discharged on

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.216 of 385
 13.09.2013 from the Court of the Ld. ASJ as submitted by the
prosecution and charge was framed on 27.09.2013 against
Manjeet @ Mangal and Suresh @ Kala only and they were stated
to be facing trial and they were convicted on 09.12.2015 but no
evidence has been brought on record to show that Manjeet and
Suresh were members of the alleged crime syndicate run by
Neeraj Bawana or that the IO had attempted to arrest them in the
present case as members of the organized crime syndicate. It may
be mentioned that the documents of the said FIR were admitted
on 22.02.2020 by the accused persons. 202. Reliance was then placed on FIR No.77/2012 which was

registered under Sections 385 / 506 / 507 , 120B and 34 IPC at PS
Bawana on the allegations that in February 2012 Naveen Bali at
the instance of Neeraj Bawania threatened a businessman
namely, Sunil Goel and forced him to give Rs.50 lakhs as
protection money. During the course of investigation, one Rahul
Ladpuriya and Manjeet @ Mangal were arrested who disclosed
that they had threatened Sunil Goel and made extortion call for
Rs.50 lakhs on the behest of Naveen @ Bali and Neeraj Bawania
and that one of the gang members namely Sonu @ Ajay had
extorted Rs.15 lakhs from the complainants which was
distributed amongst the gang members. Accused Neeraj, Naveen
and Ajay @ Sonu were also arrested in the case. Charge sheet
was filed and as per the record, on 29.07.2013, the Court
proceedings against the receiver of extorted money namely, Ajay
@ Sonu stood abated as he was killed during gang rivalry and the
said case resulted in discharge of the other accused persons on

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.217 of 385
 29.07.2013 though the documents of the case were admitted on
22.09.2022. 203. The prosecution had also relied upon FIR No.53/12 PS

Bawana under Sections 385 , 506 , 507 , 120B and 34 IPC which
was registered on the allegations that the accused Neeraj along
with his gang members hatched a criminal conspiracy to extort
money from one Narender Singhal @ Pappu, an industrialist of
DSIIDC, Bawana and on 12.02.2012, Narender Singhal @ Pappu
reported that on 05.02.2012, he received a call of extortion for
Rs.5 lakhs from one Kala from Sultanpur who was later
identified as Rahul Dabas @ Kala. On 12.02.2012, Kala again
made a threatening call and demanded Rs.10 lakhs from him over
phone on which the FIR was registered. During investigation,
Rahul Ladpuriya and Manjeet @ Mangal were arrested who
disclosed that they had threatened Narender Singhal on the
behest of Naveen @ Bali and Neeraj Bawania and later they and
Rahul @ Kala were arrested and charge sheet was filed. As per
the submissions of the prosecution/ record, accused Rahul @
Kala and Naveen @ Bali had already been discharged vide order
dated 01.07.2023 in the said case and the matter is stated to be
listed for prosecution evidence against the other accused and the
documents of the said case were admitted on 22.02.2020. It may
be mentioned that Rahul Ladpuriya and Manjeet @ Mangal have
not been made accused in the present case nor any attempt was
made to arrest them in the present case as members of the
organized crime syndicate and the charge sheet is silent about
any action against them for invoking the provisions of MCOC

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.218 of 385
 Act. 204. PW44 was also examined in this regard and PW44

Narender Singhal had stated that he had a business of iron cutting
work at Prahladpur and he had received a call on his mobile on
05.02.2012 from a person who stated that he was Kala from
Sultanpur Majra and he demanded Rs.10 lakhs and threatened
that if he would not give Rs.10 lakhs to him, he would kidnap his
son. He again received a call from the same person on
06.02.2012 and he again demanded the money and reduced it to
Rs.5 lakhs and again on 12.02.2012 the same person Kala made a
call to him and demanded money and threatened him again. He
had stated that on account of such continuous pressure by the
caller, he had reported the matter to Police Station Bawana and
got FIR No.53/2012 registered. He came to know that certain
persons had been arrested and police had joined him in the
investigation of the FIR for the purpose of identifying the voice
of caller who demanded the money and threatened him and
thereafter he never received any threats. During cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he had denied having
stated in his statement that the said persons involved in FIR
No.53/2012 were dreaded criminals and could threaten him for
not giving evidence in the Court or that he had demanded
security for himself. During cross-examination on behalf of the
accused persons, he had stated that he had given evidence in the
said case but he also stated that he could not ascertain regarding
the exact identity of the voice whether it was of the same person
who called him and demanded money and threatened him. He

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.219 of 385
 denied the suggestion that no call was made by Kala. As such it
is significant that PW44 had stated about receiving three calls
demanding money from one Kala though he had not paid any
amount actually and he had got the case registered. However, the
prosecution has not led any evidence to show that he had
identified the voice of the caller or to show that the Kala referred
to was the accused Rahul @ Kala before this Court. Even
otherwise, a separate FIR was registered on the complaint and the
said matter is stated to be pending for prosecution evidence. 205. The prosecution had then relied on FIR No.179/2012 PS

Bawana which was registered on the allegations that one Dr.
Dinesh Modi, owner of Soham Hospital received a threatening
call from Neeraj Bawania through his associates for either
making him a partner in his hospital or to give Rs.25 lakhs as
protection money. FIR No.179/12 under Sections 385, 506, 507,
34 was registered which is Ex.PW57/A. Neeraj, Rahul @ Kala
and Deepak @ Deepa were arrested and Rahul @ Kala was
identified by the complainant during TIP proceedings. The phone
used in making the extortion call was also recovered. Charge
sheet was filed. Dr. Dinesh Modi was examined as a witness in
the present case as PW57 who had stated that in the year he did
not remember, he received a ransom call on his mobile and a
demand of Rs.25 lakhs was made though no threat was made. He
ignored the same and made a complaint to the police on which
FIR was registered bearing FIR No.179/2012. He stated that to
his knowledge no one was arrested in the FIR. Certified copy of
the charge-sheet including FIR is Ex.PW57/A. During cross- State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.220 of 385
 examination by the Ld. Additional PP for State he admitted that
he had stated to the police that on 23.05.2012 two persons had
come in his OPD chamber and pointed a gun towards him and
they threatened him but he denied the suggestion that they
threatened him in the name of Neeraj Bawana. He admitted that
they demanded extortion money of Rs.25 lakhs and also
demanded to give permanent possession of Chemist Shop in the
New Building and that he had met ACP Kanjhawala but he did
not give any complaint. He admitted that on 26.05.2012, he again
received a threatening call on which he got FIR No.179/2012
registered. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the
police that Rahul Kala and Deepak @ Deepa had come to his
clinic though he admitted that during investigation, he had
identified the accused Rahul Kala in Tihar and volunteered he
was prompted. He stated that he did not identify any accused. As
such PW57 had stated about receiving ransom calls and about
two persons threatening him and demanding extortion money of
Rs.25 lakhs and that he had got FIR No.179/2012 registered.
Further, he had stated that he had identified the accused Rahul @
Kala in Tihar but he had volunteered that he was prompted and
he had denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that
Rahul @ Kala and Deepak @ Deepa had come to his clinic. 206. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the

accused persons PW57 had admitted that in FIR No.179/2012,
the name of the person who had extended the threat was not
mentioned. He was not aware if a trial was conducted in the said
matter or what was the outcome of the same. He was not aware

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.221 of 385
 that the accused in the said FIR had been acquitted by judgment
dated 24.07.2019. He was shown copy of the judgment Mark
PW57/D1 but he was not aware of the same. He did not
remember who had prompted him to identify Rahul Kala in
Tihar. He denied the suggestion that allegations were made
against the accused persons at the behest of the police officials to
falsely implicate them and to create false evidence against them.
Even otherwise, the accused had already been acquitted in the
said matter and PW57 had not identified the accused Rahul @
Kala in the Court and Deepak @ Deepa had already been
discharged in the present case. 207. The prosecution had also relied on FIR No.99/2012 PS

Bawana registered under Sections 385 , 387 , 506 , 507 , 120B and 34 IPC on the allegations that on 11.03.2012, the accused Neeraj
along with his gang members had made a call to one Anoop
Goel, an industrialist of DSIIDC, Bawana demanding Rs.3 lakhs
as protection money. During the course of investigation, Vivek @
Balle and Ravinder @ Paua were arrested. Subsequently, Pankaj
was also arrested and the car used in the commission of the
offence i.e. Santro car was seized on his disclosure. Later, one
Naveen @ Jonny was also arrested who had allegedly made the
extortion call to the complainant at the behest of Neeraj Bawania.
Deepak @ Deepa was also arrested and the accused persons were
charge sheeted and charge had been framed against the accused
Neeraj and Pankaj and the case was stated to be pending trial and
listed for prosecution evidence. The documents of the said case
were admitted by the accused persons on 22.02.2020. It may be

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.222 of 385
 mentioned that as per the record of the present case, the
investigating officer had neither attempted to arrest Vivek @
Balle or Ravinder @ Paua in the present case as members of the
organized crime syndicate nor are they shown as involved in any
other case with the accused Neeraj. The charge sheet was also
silent about any action against them for invoking the provisions
of MCOC Act . Further, Deepak @ Deepa has already been
discharged in the present case. 208. The prosecution had referred to FIR No.575/2014 PS

Baghpat Crime No.1072/2014 under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 395 , 397 , 120 B and 34 IPC to show that the accused persons were
members of an organized crime syndicate. As per the allegations,
the accused Neeraj and Pankaj hatched a conspiracy with other
gang members to manage the escape of Amit Malik @ Bhura
from the custody of Uttarakhand Police and Neeraj Bawania
through his associates attacked upon the police party escorting
Amit Bhura and helped the escape of Amit @ Bhura from the
custody of Uttarakhand Police and they also looted two assault
rifles and one SLR from the escort party of Uttarakhand Police.
During investigation, it was revealed that another associate of
Neeraj namely, Sunil Rathi had asked Neeraj to help in the
escape of Amit Bhura from the custody of Uttarakhand Police.
However, the accused Sunil Rathi and Amit Malik @ Bhura have
already been discharged in the present case. The documents of
the said case had been admitted on 22.02.2020 and also on
09.09.2022 as Ex.C-61 (colly). It was argued by the Ld. Counsel
for the accused Rambeer Shokeen that the first charge sheet in

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.223 of 385
 the said case was filed before the Baghpat District Court, UP on
17.03.2015 only against two accused persons namely Samarpal
and Govi and the accused Rambeer Shokeen was not even named
in the said charge sheet. It was highlighted that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was never arrested in the said FIR and he was
arrayed as an accused in the said FIR with the aid of Section
120B IPC by way of a supplementary charge sheet dated
23.02.2016 i.e. after the registration of the present FIR. It was
also the contention of the Ld. Counsel that the accused Rambeer
Shokeen had already been acquitted in the said case vide
judgment dated 13.09.2022 passed by the Ld. ASJ, Baghpat and a
copy of the same was placed on record with the bail application
filed on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. While the
matter is stated to be pending against the accused Neeraj, vide
judgment dated 13.09.2022, the accused Rambeer Shokeen has
been acquitted in the said matter. Moreover, it is not in dispute
that charge sheet had not been filed in the said case on the date
the proposal was made for approval for registration of FIR or
even on the date of registration of FIR in the present case. 209. The prosecution had also referred to FIR No.764/2014

dated 24.08.2014 PS Subhash Place which was registered under
Sections 307, 302, 120 B, 34 IPC and 25 and 27 Arms Act against the accused Neeraj and Pankaj, the documents of which
were admitted on 09.09.2022 and the matter was stated to be
listed at the stage of prosecution evidence. As per the allegations,
Neeraj had hatched a conspiracy to liquidate one Pradeep Dahiya
who had become leader of his rival gang after the death of Nitu

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.224 of 385
 Dabodhia. In August 2014, he along with the accused Pankaj
made a plan to eliminate Pradeep Dahiya. A shoot out took place
wherein the associates of the accused Neeraj succeeded in killing
Pradeep Dahiya and Anil @ Neela. Some of the accused persons
were arrested in the said case. While the said case may not be for
any pecuniary advantage, as per the settled law, it could be for
any other advantage also and clearly the accused persons had
tried to gain advantage over the rival gang. At the same time, the
record reveals that no efforts were made to arrest the other
accused persons of the said case as members of the organized
crime syndicate in the present case. Moreover, the charge sheet
had not been filed in the said case on the date the proposal was
made for approval for registration of FIR. It may be mentioned
that the documents of FIR No.1683/2015 PS Mangolpuri under Sections 302 / 120B / 147 / 149 / 34 IPC had also been placed on
record by the prosecution and admitted by the accused persons in
which the accused Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas, Rahul Dabas
and Naveen Huda were alleged to have committed a double
murder in jail van but the said incident had taken place much
after the approval was granted in the present case and FIR was
registered in the present case. 210. It is thus seen that the accused persons had been acquitted

in FIR No.179/2012 PS Bawana and discharged in FIR
No.77/2012 PS Bawana on 29.07.2013 whereas FIR No.69/2010
PS Hari Nagar could not be said to show any connection to any
crime syndicate. Further, the accused Rahul @ Kala and Naveen
@ Bali had been discharged in FIR No.53/2012 PS Bawana and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.225 of 385
 the matter is stated to be pending against the accused Neeraj. In
FIR No.98/12 PS Prashant Vihar, the accused Neeraj and Naveen
@ Bali had already been discharged on 13.09.2013. The accused
Rambeer Shokeen has been acquitted in FIR No.575/2014 Crime
No.1072/2014 PS Baghpat though charge has been framed
against the accused Neeraj. As such, when the proposal for
approval for registration of FIR was moved in the present case,
out of the FIRs that were relied upon to show continuing
unlawful activity and existence of an organized crime syndicate,
charge sheet had not been filed in one case (FIR No.575/2014 PS
Baghpat); FIR No.69/2010 PS Hari Nagar could not be
considered for invoking MCOC Act ; the accused Neeraj and
Naveen had been discharged in FIR No.98/2012 PS Prashant
Vihar and all the accused were discharged in FIR No.77/2012 on
29.07.2013. In some of the FIRs, only the accused Neeraj was
named out of the accused persons facing trial and in FIR
No.40/2013 PS Crime Branch, the accused Neeraj had been
discharged on 24.09.2013. The only FIRs which could thus be
considered were FIR No.437/2011 PS Jhajjar in which the
accused Neeraj was discharged subsequently on 18.10.2022; FIR
No.179/2012 PS Bawana in which the accused persons were
acquitted subsequently; FIR No.53/2012 PS Bawana in which the
accused Rahul @ Kala and Naveen @ Bali had been discharged
subsequently on 01.07.2023 and FIR No.99/2012 PS Bawana in
which charge had been framed against the accused Neeraj and
Pankaj to show the existence of an organized crime syndicate. In
FIR No.764/2014 PS Subhash Place charge sheet was filed
subsequently to the proposal being moved. There are no other

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.226 of 385
 cases whose documents have been proved or admitted which
show the connection between the accused persons so as to show
the existence of a crime syndicate though the prosecution had
also relied upon several other FIRs to show the involvement of
the other accused persons and the list of such involvements is
contained in the table given above (Table B). The question which
thus remains to be examined is whether there is indeed any crime
syndicate which could be called an organized crime syndicate for
the purposes of MCOC Act . 211. The prosecution had further examined several witnesses to

show that the organized crime syndicate existed and was
indulging in organized crime. The prosecution had specifically
examined several witnesses regarding a deal in respect of plot
measuring 600 sq. yds situated at Khasra No.38/24, Village
Shahbad Daulatpur, Shiv Vihar, Delhi which it was alleged was
in the name of 2 persons i.e. Bhagwan Dass and Satyanarayan
and of which forcible possession was taken by one Rakesh Babla
after putting bricks and threatening the owner in the name of
accused Neeraj Bawana whereafter the owner had compromised
the matter and had agreed to receive the sale consideration for
part of the plot and the remaining sale consideration had been
taken by the accused persons. It is also the case of the
prosecution that the said amount was handed over to the accused
Rambeer Shokeen for elections. The Ld. Counsels for the
accused persons had argued that as many as 14 witnesses were
examined by the prosecution in this regard but the prosecution
had failed to prove any role of the accused persons. A perusal of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.227 of 385
 the evidence shows that most of the witnesses who had been
examined by the prosecution in respect of the land deal had
turned hostile and had denied the suggestions that were put to
them by the Ld. Additional PP during cross-examination though
it has come on record that the deal had taken place in respect of
the said plot. PW2 had denied knowing if the accused Neeraj and
Pankaj along with their associates had indulged in land grabbing
in Delhi or that in January 2013 he was told about the aforesaid
plot or that he received Rs.1.10 crores cash and 3 cheques in the
name of Rakesh from the mediator/property dealer Rajesh Bansal
or that he had handed over the cheques to accused Pankaj and the
cash to accused Rambeer Shokeen for elections. He had also
stated that in the year 2013 he had never mediated with regard to
any property. 212. PW12 was a property dealer and had deposed about being

informed by one Rakesh about the plot which belonged to one of
his relatives which he wanted to sell. He had also stated about the
meeting between the buyers and sellers in January and February
2013 in his office. He had further stated about the deal taking
place and some amount in cash and some in cheque being handed
over though during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP,
he could not tell the Khasra number of the plot and he also stated
that he was never informed by the seller that there was a dispute
regarding the plot with Rakesh @ Babla or the exact amount
agreed for the sale of the plot. He had stated that the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat had never come to his office and had not dealt
with him. He had admitted the total consideration to be around

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.228 of 385
 Rs.2 crores and that Rs.25 lakhs were given as earnest money. He
had stated that the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Ex.PW12/1 was given by him voluntarily and without any threat,
coercion or pressure and that the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was given twice. As such PW12 had stated about the deal
taking place and the money being paid for it and he also admitted
the consideration amount though some of the facts he could not
depose about. He had stated about the statement under Section
164 Cr.P.C. being given voluntarily but it is pertinent that in the
Court, he had denied that the accused Pankaj Sehrawat had ever
dealt with him. 213. PW13 had stated about his father-in-law informing him in

January 2013 that he along with one Shri Bhagwan Dass owned a
plot measuring 600 sq. yds in Shiv Vihar, Shahbad Daulatpur and
that some persons had put bricks in that plot in order to possess it
whereafter he along with Pinta, son of Bhagwan Dass had gone
to the plot. He had stated that in the chain of documents of his
father-in-law, execution by one of the landowners was missing
and the documents of Rakesh were found to be in order and
thereafter a settlement was arrived at. He had also approached
Rajesh Bansal PW12 to find buyers for that plot and that the sale
consideration of the plot was agreed at around Rs.2 crores and he
had stated who the buyers were and about the amount being paid.
Thus, PW13 had stated about the deal of the plot taking place and
also that bricks had been put on the plot but he had stated that the
chain of documents of his father-in-law was found to be defective
whereas of the other side was in order and thereafter a settlement

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.229 of 385
 was arrived at. During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional
PP, PW13 had denied the suggestion that Rakesh @ Babla had
told him that he was present at the plot on behalf of Neeraj
Bawania and Rambeer Shokeen and volunteered he had only told
him that Neeraj Bawania was the son of his Mausi. He had
admitted that when he told his father-in-law that name of Neeraj
Bawania was cropping up in the plot dispute, he had said that
they should not get into any entangle or legal action but he
denied the suggestion that out of fear of Neeraj Bawania and
Rambeer Shokeen, the settlement had been arrived at or that
Rakesh @ Babla had threatened to kill him. He had also admitted
that the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Ex.PW13/1 was
given by him voluntarily and without any threat, coercion and
pressure but otherwise it is seen that in the Court he had not
stated about any threat being extended. Thus, in the testimony of
PW13, the name of accused Neeraj Bawana had cropped up and
he had volunteered that Rakesh @ Babla had only told him that
Neeraj Bawania was the son of his Mausi. This has to be seen in
light of what he stated further i.e. he had admitted that when he
told his father-in-law that the name of Neeraj Bawania was
cropping up in the plot dispute, he had said that they should not
get into any entangle or legal action which implies that the
settlement that took place subsequently was out of fear of the
accused Neeraj though PW13 had denied the suggestion that out
of fear of Neeraj Bawania and Rambeer Shokeen, the settlement
had been arrived at or that Rakesh @ Babla had threatened to kill
him. Even though PW13 had tried to contend that the chain of
documents of his father-in-law was defective, it is evident what

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.230 of 385
 the reason for the settlement was. At the same time, there is
nothing in the testimony of PW13 to point out that the accused
Neeraj Bawana had himself extended any threat and what was
told to PW13 was by Rakesh Babla. Further, other than the
accused Neeraj, he had not stated about any other accused
person. 214. PW17 had denied being involved in the deal of the plot

and denied that he ever received any threats regarding that plot.
He was cross-examined by the Ld. Additional PP for State but he
denied the suggestions that were put to him and during cross-
examination he had stated that he did not have any acquaintance
with Neeraj or Pankaj Sehrawat and none of the said persons had
ever threatened him. He also stated that his father was happy
with the deal and that his father and his partner had never
complained to him about any force being used in the deal of the
plot. PW37 had deposed about the statement of account of Vijay
Kumar. PW45 had stated about one Rakesh opening a saving
account in Indian Bank, Nangloi Branch, Najafgarh Road and he
had provided the documents to the police and that in respect of
the said account once the account holder had brought 3 cheques
of the amount which he did not remember and those cheques
were credited in the account and the account holder had also
come to withdraw the amount which was more than Rs.10 lakhs.
He had stated about receiving a call from the office of Rambeer
who told him that the person Rakesh who was seeking to
withdraw the money was genuine and some amount was
withdrawn. He admitted during cross-examination by the Ld.

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.231 of 385
 Additional PP that on 20.06.2013 when the cheques were
credited the account holder Rakesh sought to withdraw Rs.20
lakhs from the account and withdrew Rs.5 lakhs. During cross-
examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer Shokeen,
PW45 stated that he did not remember the exact date as to when
he joined the investigation of the present case. He admitted that
he must have been called by the police to join the investigation of
this case on 03.07.2015 when his statement was recorded. Since
during those days there was only one landline in the bank, which
was in his office, therefore he picked that call and no other staff
of the branch. He did not know if the caller told his name or not
and volunteered in fact he told that he was speaking from the
office of Rambeer Shokeen. As far as he remembered, he could
not say if the caller was actually Rambeer Shokeen or not. He did
not ask the name of the caller who made the call to him. He
denied the suggestion that no call was received from the office of
Rambeer Shokeen. He did not remember if the said Rakesh,
account holder came alone or with someone else. He stated that
there was no necessity for a call or recommendation for release
of any amount from the account of the bank to him. 215. PW45 had thus, stated that the person who had called him

to make the payment to Rakesh had stated that he was speaking
from the office of Rambeer Shokeen though he could not say if
the caller was actually Rambeer Shokeen or not. Further, PW45
had stated about the call from the office of Rambeer and he had
also stated that it was possible that the caller who made the call
on the landline of the bank told his name to be Rambeer Shokeen

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.232 of 385
 and as far as he remembered, he could not say if the caller was
actually Rambeer Shokeen or not and as such he was not certain
if the caller was the accused Rambeer Shokeen. There is also
merit in the contention of the Ld. Counsel for the accused
Rambeer Shokeen that the call could have been made by anyone
from the office of accused Rambeer and there is nothing cogent
to establish that it was the accused Rambeer Shokeen who had
made the call on which the money was withdrawn. PW45 had
also stated that there was no necessity for a call or
recommendation for release of any amount. 216. PW46 stated that he did not know anything regarding the

plot in question and he had never visited the said plot and during
cross- examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he denied whatever
was put to him. PW47 also stated that he had never visited the
plot in question and had never visited anywhere for the purpose
of any compromise talks regarding the plot and was not aware of
anything about the said plot and no payment was ever received
by him regarding the said plot and during cross- examination by
the Ld. Additional PP, he denied whatever was put to him. As
such PW46 and PW47 had not supported the case of the
prosecution at all regarding the deal of the plot. PW48 had stated
about investing Rs.15 lakhs in 2013 in a plot located near
Industrial Area Bawana and he had given a cheque for the said
amount in the name of one Rakesh. He had stated about having
one or two other partners in the deal and that he had received the
plot. He had also identified his photographs on the documents
which were put to him though he was not certain if the signatures

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.233 of 385
 were his. During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he
had denied most of the things that were put to him though he had
admitted that he had handed over two cheques bearing
No.000112 for Rs.7 lakhs and bearing No.000111 for Rs.8 lakhs
drawn on Karur Vyasya Bank Ltd. PW49 had not supported the
case of the prosecution regarding the deal of the plot in question
and during cross- examination by the Ld. Additional PP he had
denied the suggestions that were put to him and he had also
stated that he did not know anything about the documents which
were put to him and also that the cheques were not handed over
in his presence. 217. PW52 also stated that he had no knowledge about a plot in

Shahbad Village and during cross-examination by the Ld.
Additional PP he denied the suggestions that were put to him. He
stated that the documents that were put to him were not prepared
in his presence and he did not know anything about the said
documents. As such the said witness had not supported the case
of the prosecution. PW55 had denied the suggestions that were
put to him by the Ld. Additional PP for State regarding the deal
of the plot in question and he stated that the documents that were
put to him were not prepared in his presence and he did not know
anything about the said documents and his signatures and photos
were not there on the said documents and he even denied the
signatures on the documents. PW56 had also denied the
suggestions that were put to him by the Ld. Additional PP for
State, though he stated that on date he did not remember,
Joginder Thakaran had called him on phone and told him about a

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.234 of 385
 plot, the particulars of which he did not remember and which he
had never seen and told him to purchase it and that a cheque of
Rs.5 lakhs was handed over on his behalf. He had stated about
the documents Mark PW48/1, Mark PW48/2, Mark PW48/3 and
Mark PW48/4 being prepared in his presence and he also
identified his signatures on Mark PW49/2 and on Mark PW49/3,
Mark PW49/4 and Mark PW49/5. He stated that the cheques
Mark PW49/6 (colly) were not handed over in his presence.
PW69 did not remember most of the things that were put to him
by the Ld. Additional PP for State though he stated that Mark
PW48/1 bore his photo and his signatures as also Mark PW48/2,
Mark PW48/3, Mark PW48/4 and Mark PW49/2 was executed
by him. He also identified his signatures on Mark PW49/4 and
Mark PW49/5. 218. PW78 had deposed about one Ajay bringing Bhagwan

Dass to him and they had asked him to open a bank account as he
wanted to deposit money in the account from the land that had
been sold and that an amount of around Rs.18 to 20 lakhs came
to the account which was withdrawn by Bhagwan Dass after 2 to
3 days. He had denied the suggestion about going to the office of
Rambeer Shokeen or that he came into contact with the accused
Rambeer Shokeen, Pankaj Sehrawat or that in June 2013 accused
Pankaj Sehrawat had asked him to open the bank account or that
the accused Pankaj Sehrawat had given him Rs.1000/- to open
one bank account. He had also denied the suggestion that he had
given his account number to accused Pankaj Sehrawat who
handed over 3 cheques to him which he deposited in the account

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.235 of 385
 or that on 20.06.2013 the cheques were cleared about which he
informed the accused Pankaj who asked him to withdraw Rs.20
lakhs or that thereafter the accused Rambeer Shokeen had spoken
to the Bank Manager or that he had withdrawn the said amount
or that the amount was handed over to the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. He was not able to identify the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat though he identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen and
during cross-examination he stated that he knew the accused
Rambeer Shokeen as he had come in his Gali for campaigning
and they had also seen him on television but he had never
personally met him nor had been to his office. Thus, PW78 had
denied having any contact with the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and
Rambeer Shokeen. It was argued by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused persons that the testimony of the said witness showed
that the account was got opened by the seller of the land i.e.
Bhagwan Dass and there is nothing to show that the accused
persons had any hand in it and it is seen that PW78 had denied
the suggestions put to him regarding the role of the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat. The Ld. Addl. PP, on the other hand, had
argued that it was clear that the said witness was not telling the
truth as he could not tell the address of Bhagwan Dass at whose
behest he had opened the account and he had admitted the bank
documents but it was for the prosecution to establish that PW78
had opened the bank account at the instance of the accused
persons and not at the instance of the seller Bhagwan Dass but
the same does not stand established from the testimony of PW78.
Even no evidence has been led by the prosecution to show that
the accused Pankaj indeed had any role in getting the bank

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.236 of 385
 account of the said witness opened or that the money went to the
accused Pankaj and thereafter was handed over to the accused
Rambeer Shokeen. 219. It is thus seen that from the testimony of the witnesses, it

stands established that the deal had taken place in respect of the
plot in question, once PW69 who was one of the owners of the
land had stated about the documents being prepared in his
presence, and PW56 who was one of the buyers had also stated
about the documents. Further, PW48 had identified his
photographs on the documents and also admitted handing over
two cheques though during cross-examination, he stated that he
was told that the plot for which the deal was made was near
Industrial Plot Bawana and he was not told the Khasra number.
Moreover, PW12 had admitted the total consideration to be
around Rs.2 crores and that Rs.25 lakhs were given as earnest
money though the Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen
had argued that oral evidence could not be led when the documents
were there which showed that the deal was only for Rs.25-30
lakhs. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
argued that the original documents had not been produced, nor any
of the witnesses had stated where the original documents were. It
is true that the originals of the documents were not produced and
were marked only though PW56 and PW69 had identified the
signatures on them and also the photographs and PW48 had also
identified his photographs on the said documents. It was
also contended by the Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer
Shokeen that PW56 could not say who had written the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.237 of 385
 words 'True Copy' above his signatures and the words 'Chand
Ram' below his signatures on the documents and the signatures
of PW56 appeared twice on the documents. However, PW56 had
volunteered that the said words were written by Rajesh and even
otherwise, the said documents were marked. At the same time,
the testimony of the witnesses is sufficient to show that the deal
of the plot of land had taken place. It is further pertinent that as
per the evidence on record the documents of sale of land i.e.
GPA, Agreement to Sell, copy of receipt and copy of possession
letter were executed only by Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass as
the sellers in favour of Choudhary Chand Ram, Vijay Kumar and
Rakesh Kumar and there is no document which was executed by
the so called party of Rakesh @ Babla whose chain of documents
was stated to be proper and who was purportedly also the owner
of the land, which would have been so if the deal had taken place
without any coercion and the property indeed belonged to the
side of Rakesh @ Babla. It may be mentioned that during cross-
examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for State, PW13 could not admit
or deny whether the documents of sale were only executed by
Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass or that he had stated to the
police in his statement under Sections 161 Cr.P.C. and in his
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that the documents for sale
of the plot were executed by Satyanarayan and Bhagwan Dass
and he was even confronted with his statements wherein the said
fact was recorded and the record also shows that the documents

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.238 of 385
 for sale of the plot were executed only by Satyanarayan and
Bhagwan Dass. 220. At the same time, from the testimony of the witnesses,

nothing has come forth which could specifically connect the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat or the accused Rambeer Shokeen to the
said land deal. Though it is evident that the deal was executed out
of fear of the accused Neeraj Bawana, there is even nothing to
show his direct role in the said land deal and it is not the case put
forth by any witness that the accused Neeraj had himself
extended any threat to any person. The Ld. Counsel for the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had argued that as per the case of the
prosecution, the accused Rambeer Shokeen was involved in
grabbing the said plot and he had received Rs.1.1 crores out of
the transaction of the plot but there is merit in the contention that
as per the evidence which has come on record, there is nothing to
show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had any relation
whatsoever with the said transaction of the plot and none of the
witnesses have stated about any money being received by the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. Further, there is also merit in the
contention that as per the documents on record, the total sale
consideration of the plot was only Rs.25,00,000/- (though PW12
had admitted the sale consideration to be around Rs.2 crores and
Rs.25 lakhs were given as earnest money) so the question of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen receiving Rs.1.1 crores out of the said
land deal did not arise. It may also be mentioned that PW25 had
deposed about Bhagwan Dass Dhingra coming to the office of
Special Cell and giving a complaint which was marked to him on

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.239 of 385
 which FIR No.42/15 dated 05.06.2015 was registered which is
Ex.PW25/A in which he had named the accused Neeraj. Quite
clearly, there would have been no occasion for Bhagwan Dass to
have got the FIR registered if the deal had taken place without
any coercion or fear. At the same time, it is relevant that the land
deal was stated to have taken place in 2013 whereas the FIR was
got registered on 05.06.2015 i.e. after a gap or more than one
year and after the registration of the present FIR and no reason
has come forth for the delay in getting the said FIR registered. 221. As per the above chart (Table B) and as per the

involvements of the accused Pankaj shown in the FIR, the
accused Pankaj was stated to be involved in FIR No.146/2010 PS
Bawana under Sections 323 , 341 and 34 IPC and Sections 17 / 61 Excise Act which was registered on the allegations that one lady
had seen two motorcyclists selling illicit liquor and when she
opposed the same, she was beaten up. In the said case, none of
the accused persons named in the present case except the accused
Pankaj were arrested and the same cannot be said to have any
connection with any organized crime syndicate of Neeraj nor can
it be regarded as a continuing unlawful activity for the purposes
of MCOC Act . Further FIR No.29/2010 PS Bawana under Sections 336 , 506 and 34 IPC and Sections 25 and 27 Arms Act
was also registered against him on the allegations that he along
with others had gone to a plot at Karambir after making a call
and fired some rounds and many persons were arrested in the
said case though out of the present accused persons, only the
accused Pankaj was arrested. Even as per the case of the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.240 of 385
 prosecution, the said FIR was not relied upon to show the
involvement of accused Pankaj in the crime syndicate and in the
said case, the police did not invoke any provision of extortion. It
surfaced that the offence was committed only to maintain
pressure on the members of the rival gang but which was the
rival gang is not stated, nor even is it stated that the accused
Pankaj had done the said act on behalf of the Neeraj gang. FIR
No.206/2012 PS South Rohini was also referred to in the list of
involvements of the accused Pankaj in which case the caller had
introduced himself as a member of Neeraj gang and demanded
money but during investigation, out of the present accused
persons, only accused Pankaj was arrested and the said FIR has
also not been relied upon by the prosecution to show the
existence of a crime syndicate. 222. The prosecution had contended that several vehicles were

purchased by the accused persons, mainly by the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat from the funds of the organized crime syndicate and in
this respect the prosecution had examined PW7. PW7 had
deposed about being asked by her husband to accompany him to
a showroom of cars and a car was purchased by her husband and
she had gone there with Jagdev Shokeen, owner of the premises
where her husband was running the factory. After signing the
documents, she came to her house. During cross-examination by
the Ld. Additional PP, PW7 had admitted that in September,
2014, her husband had told her that his factory owner Jagdev
Shokeen wanted to purchase a car for his relative in her name on
loan and that she had signed the documents of the car and its loan

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.241 of 385
 documents though she did not know if some other persons were
accompanying Jagdev Shokeen. She also stated that she had
never seen the car and she did not know if the delivery of the car
was taken by the relatives of Jagdev Shokeen and she had never
used the car. Pertinently during cross-examination she had
admitted that Jagdev Shokeen had never asked her husband to
purchase the vehicle for use of any of his relatives. When
recalled for examination in respect of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen, PW7 had deposed that in the year 2005, she had
purchased a car in her name in cash and she along with her
husband, Jagdev Shokeen and some other persons, whom she did
not know, had gone to the showroom to purchase that car and
they had received the delivery of the car and sometimes Jagdev
Shokeen used to drive that vehicle for his own use. As such PW7
had stated about the purchase of a car at the instance of Jagdev
Shokeen. The Ld. Addl. PP had submitted that her testimony was
important as she had stated that the vehicle was purchased in her
name but she had never used it and it never came to her house,
however, the testimony of PW7 does not establish that the car
was purchased for use by any of the accused persons or the
payment for it was made by any of the accused persons. 223. PW8 had stated about taking the premises for running

factory from Jagdev Shokeen on rent and it was submitted that
Jagdev Shokeen was the uncle of accused Pankaj and Neeraj. He
had also stated about purchasing a car make ETIOS Liva from
Moti Nagar in the name of his wife who had furnished the
documents and his wife had executed the loan documents. He

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.242 of 385
 had stated that he was using the said vehicle and he had
purchased the vehicle and he was paying the installments of the
said car. During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he
had denied the suggestion that in September 2014 Jagdev
Shokeen had asked him to purchase a car either in his name or in
the name of his wife Shivani or that he had told him that his
nephew Pankaj needed a car in the name of other person. He had
also denied the suggestion that after sanctioning of the loan,
accused Pankaj and his friend had visited the showroom and got
delivery of the car or that he had seen the said car with Pankaj
after 3 - 4 days of delivery or that during Delhi Assembly
elections in February 2015, this car was used by accused Pankaj
in the elections. He had admitted that in his statement before the
Ld. Magistrate he had stated that the vehicle was impounded
from the possession of Neeraj Bawania and the vehicle was
registered in the name of his wife Shivani Sharma. He stated that
he himself had taken delivery of the car and the vehicle was also
being used by his landlord Jagdev Shokeen. He stated that he had
never given the said vehicle to criminals Sunil Choudhary and
others and that he had never met the accused Neeraj and Pankaj.
He had given the vehicle to Jagdev Shokeen. 224. When PW8 was recalled for examination in respect of the

accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW8 had stated that the vehicle was
purchased on the request of his landlord who stated that he
needed a vehicle for his own use and had purchased the vehicle
on loan which was in the name of his wife. He stated that the
vehicle, its color, make and model were decided by Jagdev

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.243 of 385
 Shokeen. He, his wife, Jagdev Shokeen and two more persons
whom he did not know had gone to take the delivery of the
vehicle and the same day he had handed over the vehicle to
Jagdev Shokeen. He had never used that vehicle. He had also
stated that he used to repay the loan in installments and the
amount of installment was adjusted in the rent which was to be
paid to Jagdev Shokeen. He also stated that Jagdev Shokeen had
stated that he needed the vehicle for use of his family but he had
not given the particular name of the person for whom he required
the vehicle. During cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, he
was confronted with portions of his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Ex.PW8/B wherein he had stated that Jagdev Shokeen
had told him that he needed the vehicle for the use of his
maternal nephew Pankaj and that Pankaj had used the vehicle in
the election of the accused Rambeer Shokeen and he did not
remember whether he had stated to the Ld. Magistrate that
Pankaj had also accompanied them when they had gone to take
the delivery of the vehicle. He admitted that the accused Pankaj
used to come to his factory and he knew him. It is pertinent that
PW8 had stated that the vehicle was purchased at the instance of
Jagdev Shokeen and also about handing over the vehicle to
Jagdev Shokeen. However, from the testimony of PW7 and PW8,
it does not stand established that the vehicle was purchased for
the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. 225. PW24 had stated about handing over the documents

relating to sale of Toyota Etios Liva to the officers of Special
Cell. He had stated that first day he was approached by one

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.244 of 385
 Pankaj Sehrawat who was accompanied by one more person
whose name he did not know who were interested in buying a
used car but later on they decided to buy a new car. He arranged
a call from Grace Toyota to Pankaj Sehrawat in order to start the
process of buying the car and also handed over loan application
form and informed him about the documents which would be
required. He had stated that the same day Pankaj Sehrwat had
returned with the loan application form and the required
documents and the loan application was signed by one Shivani
and the documents also pertained to her. After 2-3 days Shivani
along with her husband and probably with Pankaj Sehrawat came
to their office and signed the loan disbursal agreement and the
vehicle was delivered. 226. During cross-examination on behalf of the accused Pankaj

Sehrawat, PW24 admitted that none of the documents which he
had seen in the Court were signed by the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat. He admitted that whenever a new vehicle was
delivered, the photographs of the delivery of the vehicle were
taken by the company. He denied the suggestion that the vehicle
in question was not delivered at their office/ showroom or that it
was delivered from the showroom of Grace Toyota. They did not
prepare any document to reflect that the vehicle was delivered
from their showroom and therefore, he could not produce any
such document. He denied the suggestion that no such document
was prepared as the vehicle was not delivered at their showroom.
He denied the suggestion that it was only at the behest of the
investigating officer that he had deposed about Pankaj coming to

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.245 of 385
 their showroom to get the vehicle or submitting the documents
for the finance of the vehicle or that he had not arranged any call
from Grace Toyota to Pankaj Sehrawat. He admitted that he had
never met anybody named Manishi Chandra. He stated that he
had met a lot of people in the office of Special Cell and then he
recalled that he had met ACP Manishi Chandra. Thus, PW24 had
admitted that none of the documents which were on record were
signed by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. However, he had also
stated about the vehicle being sold at the behest of the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat though he did not state that any money was paid
by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. 227. As such, PW7 and PW8 had stated about the purchase of a

vehicle in the name of PW7 on loan at the instance of Jagdev
Shokeen and that the vehicle was handed over to Jagdev Shokeen
though they had not stated anything specifically about the vehicle
being purchased by or for the accused Pankaj Sehrawat. PW24
had specifically stated about the accused Pankaj Sehrawat
accompanied by one more person coming to the showroom and
returning with the loan application form and the required
documents which were in the name of Shivani. The testimony of
the said three witnesses does show that the vehicle was
purchased and from the testimony of PW24 it is evident that the
vehicle was purchased at the behest of the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat. However, there is nothing in the testimony of the
witnesses which establishes that the amount for the vehicle was
paid by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and PW24 had not deposed
anything in that regard whereas PW8 had stated about the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.246 of 385
 amount of loan being adjusted in the rent which he had to pay to
Jagdev Shokeen but again he had not stated about the amount
being paid by Pankaj Sehrawat. 228. From the testimony of PW24, even if it comes out that the

accused Pankaj Sehrawat was involved in the purchase of
vehicle, it does not show that he had paid the amount for
purchase of the said vehicle. The Ld. Addl. PP had argued that
the testimony of the witnesses proved that the vehicle was
purchased by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat from extortion money
as he had no proven source of income. However, even no
suggestion was put to PW7 that the vehicle was purchased by the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat or that he had paid for the vehicle.
PW8 had denied the suggestion that when he asked from Shri
Jagdev Shokeen the purpose of purchasing the car, he told him
that his nephew Pankaj needed a car in the name of other person.
He had also denied the suggestion that he had seen the said car
with Pankaj after 3 - 4 days of delivery or that during Delhi
Assembly elections in February, 2015, the said car was used by
accused Pankaj in the elections or that after purchasing the car,
he was paying only Rs.1,000/- as a rent to Shri Jagdev Shokeen
as he was also paying Rs.11,005/- per month as installment of
purchasing the said vehicle to accused Pankaj or that he had
taken the said car on loan for accused Pankaj at the instance of
his factory owner Shri Jagdev Shokeen. He was confronted with
the statement made to the police wherein the said facts were
stated but nowhere any suggestion was put that to him the said
vehicle was purchased out of extortion money or that the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.247 of 385
 Pankaj Sehrawat had made the payment for the same. Rather
PW8 had stated that he did not remember, if he had stated before
the Ld. Magistrate that the installments of the car used to be
adjusted from the rent of the shed which was taken by him from
Shri Jagdev Shokeen which would be clearly contrary to the
contention that the vehicle was purchased out of extortion money.
Even if the installments for the car were adjusted out of the rent
paid by PW8 to Jagdev Shokeen, it does not show that it was
extortion money. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer
Shokeen had argued that Jagdev Shokeen had not been made an
accused and he had expired and the accused Rambeer Shokeen
could not be held liable for the acts of his brother and there is
merit in this contention, more so, when there is nothing to
establish that the said vehicle was used in the elections of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. 229. Further, as per the case of the prosecution, the vehicle was

recovered from the possession of a co-accused Sunil Rathi who
was stated to be a gang member and the Ld. Addl. PP had argued
that PW71 had deposed about bringing the said vehicle from
Dehradun and it is seen that PW71 had deposed about going to
Dehradun Court to bring one vehicle bearing No.DL 8C AF9780
and he stated that they had taken possession of the vehicle from
PS Doiwala and brought the same to PS Special Cell, Lodhi
Colony. He had stated that the application for release of vehicle
was perhaps related to Amit @ Bhura and he did not know what
was the relevance of the said vehicle in the present case. Even
otherwise, the accused Amit @ Bhura has already been

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.248 of 385
 discharged in the present case. Moreover, PW8 had stated about
handing over the vehicle to Jagdev Shokeen and how it reached
the other accused has not been shown by the prosecution. 230. Two other witnesses were examined to show purchase of

vehicles by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and PW10 had proved
the documents in respect of Scorpio Mahindra SUV DL10
CT0917 which was stated to be purchased by accused Pankaj
Seharawat on 26.06.2014 for which he had made down payment
in cash in two installments and there was also bank finance and
two more payments were made in cash. He had also stated about
purchase of another vehicle being Scorpio SUV bearing
No.DL4CM B8763 by Pankaj Sehrawat on 06.02.2013 for which
he made a down payment in cash and there was a bank finance.
PW21 had also stated about providing details of vehicle
No.DL1CP 1772 which was purchased by Pankaj Sehrawat for
which some amount was paid in cash and some amount was
financed. It is thus seen that the said witnesses had stated about
purchase of three vehicles by the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and as
per the case of prosecution even the vehicle purchased in the
name of Shivani was purchased by or for the accused Pankaj
Sehrawat and all the vehicles were purchased out of extortion
money. However, there is nothing in the testimony of the
witnesses to show that the money which was used by the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat to purchase the vehicles was obtained out of
extortion or from proceeds of organized crime or that the vehicles
were used for the purpose of organized crime syndicate and no
specific suggestion was put to the witnesses in that regard. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.249 of 385 231. It was then argued by the Ld. Addl. PP that there was no

known source of income of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat which
showed that the vehicles were purchased out of extortion money.
PW64 had deposed that disclosure statements of the accused
Pankaj were recorded which are Ex.PW64/B, Ex.PW64/C,
Ex.PW64/D, Ex.PW64/E and Ex.PW64/F respectively. The
accused had disclosed that he had purchased a Scorpio Car
bearing No.DL 10CT 0917 from extortion amount and he along
with his brother was using the said car for running syndicate
activities. He stated that he had parked the said vehicle in a plot
in his village and that he could get the same recovered. He along
with ACP Manishi Chandra along with other staff went to Village
Bawana and at the instance of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat,
Scorpio Car No.DL 10CT 0917 was recovered and seized vide
seizure memo Ex.PW64/G. The documents of the car i.e. copy of
RC, Delivery Receipt of the Scorpio, detailed invoice dated
26.06.2014 of the Scorpio and receipt dated 30.06.2014 of
Rs.91,174/- were also found in the car and the same were seized
vide seizure memo Ex.PW64/G. The said documents are
Ex.PW64/H (colly) and the copy of the RC is Mark PW64/1.
During cross-examination PW64 could not admit or deny the
suggestion that the car bearing registration No.DL 10 CT 0917
was taken on loan. He denied the suggestion that a Scorpio Car
bearing No.DL 10 CT 0917 seized vide seizure memo
Ex.PW64/G was not purchased from extortion amount or that the
accused Pankaj along with his brother Neeraj were not using the
said car for running syndicate activities or that the accused
Pankaj did not make any disclosure statements dated 14.03.2015,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.250 of 385
 26.03.2015, 28.06.2015, 09.04.2015 and 12.04.2015 which are
Ex.PW64/B, C, D, E and F. Thus, PW64 had denied the
suggestions put to him but there is nothing in his testimony to
show that the said vehicle was indeed purchased out of extortion
money. 232. The prosecution in this regard had also examined PW26

who deposed that he knew Pankaj Sehrawat; he had prepared and
filed his Income Tax Returns for the assessment years 2011-12,
2012-13 and 2013-14; Pankaj Sehrawat had told him that he was
a property dealer and he wanted to file his Income Tax Returns;
he had seen the bank statements of Pankaj Sehrawat in order to
verify the claim of income made by him and he stated that the
entire income shown by Pankaj Sehrawat was not reflected in his
bank statement and he stated that some of it was received by him
as commission in cash. The copies of acknowledgement of
income tax returns for the assessment years 2011-12, 2012-13
and 2013-14 are Mark PW26/A, PW26/B and PW26/C. He could
not tell how much of the income reflected in the said returns
could be verified in banking transactions and how much was
stated to be income in cash as commission. He stated that before
filing the income tax returns, Pankaj Sehrawat had informed him
that he wanted to take a vehicle on loan and for that purpose the
bank required income tax returns and thus he wanted to file
income tax returns. He also stated that before filing of the said
returns or at the time when he approached him, Pankaj Sehrawat
had stated that he had a source of income as commission from
property dealing and he had stated nothing else. During cross- State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.251 of 385
 examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, PW26 denied the suggestion
that he had stated to the police that in the year 2012 accused
asked him to prepare forged income tax returns for the year
2012-13 as he wanted to take a loan or that he refused to accept
the said request or that thereafter he asked him to prepare the
returns by showing him working as a property dealer and
volunteered it was for the first time only that he told him that he
was working as a property dealer. He was also confronted with
the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. What is
material is that PW26 had stated that all the income of the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat was not reflected in banking
transactions and some of it was received in cash but he could not
say if the accused Pankaj Sehrawat was a property dealer or not. 233. During cross-examination on behalf of the accused Pankaj

Sehrawat, PW26 stated that the Income Tax Department did not
send any notice or raise any objection on the returns of Pankaj
Sehrawat as had been filed by him. Thus, there was no notice
sent to the accused Pankaj Sehrawat regarding the Income Tax
Returns filed by him. Further, from the testimony of PW26, it
does not stand established that the accused Pankaj did not have
any known source of income. It was for the prosecution to have
led specific evidence to show that the vehicles were purchased
out of proceeds of organized crime or extortion or even to show
that the accused Pankaj Sehrawat was in possession of the said
vehicles purchased out of money which he could not account for
but no such evidence has been brought on record. Further, it was
for the prosecution to show that the vehicles were used for the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.252 of 385
 purpose of organized crime syndicate but no such evidence has
been brought on record except that one Scorpio was recovered on
the disclosure of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat which also does
not establish that it was used for the purpose of any organized
crime syndicate. The Toyota Etios was recovered from the
accused Sunil Rathi but it has not been shown that the same was
purchased out of extortion money or even that it was in the name
of the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and accused Sunil Rathi has
already been discharged in the present case. Even otherwise, no
charge has been framed against the accused Pankaj Sehrawat for
the offence under Section 3(5) MCOC Act which provides
punishment for holding any property derived or obtained from
commission of an organized crime or which had been acquired
through the organized crime syndicate funds or under Section 4 of MCOC Act which lays down punishment for being in
possession of movable or immovable property on behalf of a
member of an organized crime syndicate which he cannot
satisfactorily account for. 234. The prosecution had examined several witnesses to show

that threats had been extended by the accused persons to them in
respect of which FIRs were got lodged by them and that the same
showed commission of organized crime. PW9 Kamaldeep Dabas
@ Monu had stated that no one had demanded money from him
and he was running his business peacefully. He had stated about
his statement being recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which is
Ex.PW9/A. During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP,
he denied the suggestions that were put to him and he denied the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.253 of 385
 suggestion that in January 2015, gang members of accused
Neeraj had come to his club 'BNB Shooters' or that they had told
him that Neeraj had demanded half share of the income of the
club or that he was taken to the office of Rambeer Shokeen
where he met the accused Neeraj whom he identified or that the
accused Neeraj threatened him to give half share of income of the
club to him or that on his repeated requests, accused Neeraj
asked him to give Rs.2.5 lakhs in order to get rid of the matter or
that thereafter Sandeep Sehrawat had come to his village and he
handed over Rs.2.5 lakhs to him for handing over the same to the
accused Neeraj. However, he had admitted that he had stated
before the Ld. Magistrate that he had given Rs.2.5 lakhs to the
accused Neeraj Bawania, in January, 2015 as he was forcibly
demanding half share of income of the club 'BNB Bar' and that
on his request, accused Neeraj had agreed to take Rs.2.5 lakhs in
order to leave the forcible share and that one person of accused
Neeraj had taken the amount from him and after that he was not
harassed by the accused Neeraj. He had admitted that he had
given the said statement before the Ld. Magistrate willingly and
voluntarily. As such in his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
PW9 had stated about giving Rs.2.5 lakhs to the accused Neeraj
and that the said amount was taken by one person of accused
Neeraj from him. 235. During cross-examination, PW9 stated that he never

received any threat from anyone. It is pertinent that he admitted
that after his visit at Special Cell, his statement was recorded by
the Ld. Magistrate but on that basis it cannot be said that the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.254 of 385
 statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was given under any kind of
coercion. When the statement of PW9 was recorded again on
10.03.2021, he had denied the suggestions that were put to him
by the Ld. Additional PP for State though he had admitted the
statement Ex.PW9/A and that it was the same statement which he
had given to the Ld. Magistrate and he had given the same
voluntarily and without any threat, coercion or pressure. 236. PW2 Sandeep Sehrawat is the person to whom PW9 had

allegedly handed over the amount. He had denied the suggestions
put to him during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP
and that he had stated to the police that in the year 2015 on the
instructions of accused Neeraj, he had collected extortion money
amounting to Rs.2.50 lakhs from one Kamaldeep Dabas (PW9)
or that as per the instructions of the accused Neeraj, he had given
that money to the accused Rambeer Shokeen and in his earlier
statement dated 27.07.2019 as well he had denied the suggestions
that in January 2015, on the instructions of the accused Neeraj,
he had received Rs.2.50 lakhs as extortion money from
Kamaldeep Dabas @ Monu, resident of Barwala or that on the
instructions of the accused Neeraj, he had gone to the office of
Rambeer Shokeen situated at Kamruddin Nagar and handed over
the amount to Rambeer Shokeen. During cross-examination, he
had admitted that the police had threatened to implicate him in
the case and out of fear, he had given statement to the police and
that there was no threat to him for making the statement which he
had made in the Court. As such PW2 had denied receiving
Rs.2.50 lakhs at the instance of the accused Neeraj from PW9

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.255 of 385
 and at the most from the testimony of PW2 and PW9 it can be
said that an amount of Rs.2.50 lakhs was handed over at the
instance of the accused Neeraj by PW9 but there is nothing to
show that there was any connection of any other accused to the
same or even to show that the amount was delivered in the office
of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. During cross-examination
PW74 denied the suggestion that false and concocted statements
were recorded by him of witnesses Kamaldeep Dabas, Sandeep
Sehrawat and other witnesses by threatening and forcing the
witnesses to depose against the accused Rambeer Shokeen in
order to falsely implicate him in the present case. 237. Further, PW27 had deposed about PW9 coming to PS and

giving a statement about some boys claiming to be members of
Neeraj Bawana gang approaching him and asking him to give
50% share of the bar to Neeraj Bawana and about being taken to
the office of accused Rambeer Shokeen where he met the
accused Neeraj Bawana who raised the demand but on his
repeated requests, he asked for and accepted Rs.2.5 lakhs. He had
stated about getting FIR No.35/2015 PS Special Cell registered
and after completion of investigation he had filed the charge
sheet. The FIR is Ex.PW27/1 and the same was registered under Sections 384 / 34 IPC. It may be mentioned that the documents of
the said case were admitted by the accused persons on
09.09.2022 and are Ex.C-58 (colly). He had denied the
suggestion during cross-examination that after registration of the
FIR in the present case, FIR No.35/15 was registered in order to
create false evidence against the accused Rambeer Shokeen. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.256 of 385
 However, it is pertinent that PW27 had stated that PW9 had come
to him on 10.05.2015 whereas the incident was stated to be of
January 2015 and there is no explanation forthcoming, as was
contended by the Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen,
for the delay in lodging the FIR. The Ld. Counsel had also
argued that Kamaldeep Dabas stayed in Barwala whereas the
restaurant was stated to be in Rajouri Garden and there was
nothing to show that he was the owner of the club and there was
no complaint at Rajouri Garden and the complaint was lodged
only at PS Special Cell which was 40 kilometers away. However,
nothing much turns of the said contention though at the same
time it is significant that the complaint on the basis of which FIR
No.35/2015 was registered was made much after the alleged
incident and after the registration of the present FIR. It may also
be mentioned that the accused Rambeer Shokeen has been
discharged by the order of the Ld. Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI)-
23, RADC dated 08.08.2023 in the revision petition filed by the
accused Rambeer Shokeen against the order on charge of the Ld.
ACMM-03. Thus, the said case survives only against the accused
Neeraj. 238. Further, PW11 Gulshan Batra was examined who denied

receiving any threat or demand either in person or through
telephone and during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional
PP, he had denied receiving a call on his mobile from a person
who stated his name to be Bali in February, 2012 or that he asked
him to arrange Rs.5 lakhs within three days or on his failure he
threatened to blow his shop. Even when he was examined again

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.257 of 385
 on 10.03.2021 he had stated that he had never made any
complaint to the police and he had never received any threat from
anyone and had denied the suggestions put to him by the Ld.
Additional PP for State. As such his testimony does not help the
case of the prosecution. 239. PW19 Hans Raj Goel had stated that in the year 2012 he

had not received any threat of any kind from anyone and during
cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP for State he had
denied having stated in the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
that in January 2012, at around 6:30 p.m. he had received a call
on his mobile or that the caller had stated that he was Bali and
he had asked him to go and meet Bhai or that he repeated
"Neeraj bhai se jakar mil liyo" or that he informed his father
about the incident and thereafter they had gone to the house of
elder brother of father of Neeraj who assured that he would talk
to Neeraj. As such nothing significant had come out in the
evidence of PW19 to support the case of the prosecution. 240. PW22 Rajbir had stated that he had friendship with one

Karambir Sehrawat but later on around 2010, he had
disassociated himself from him. He had also stated that there was
no incident of any criminal or threatening nature against him or
at a time when he was with Karambir and he had never lodged
any complaint with PS Bawana regarding any incident of firing
upon him. During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP for
State, he had denied the suggestions that he had stated to the
police that in 2010 in February he was present with Karambir at
his plot when accused Pankaj Sehrawat along with his 40-50

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.258 of 385
 associates came to the plot and fired upon them or that regarding
the said incident he had lodged FIR No.29/10 PS Bawana or that
he had stated to the police that at that time Neeraj was in jail and
his brother Pankaj was looking after his affairs and running his
gang. As such even PW22 had denied having made any statement
against the accused Pankaj Sehrawat and even denied lodging
FIR No.29/10 PS Bawana. Even otherwise, the prosecution has
failed to bring anything on record to show that the said offence
was committed on behalf of any organized crime syndicate. 241. PW23 Raj Jain had stated that in the year 2015 he was the

President of Bawana Chamber of Industries but he was never
approached by anyone for any protection money to be paid
personally or on behalf of Bawana Chamber of Industries and he
had never paid any protection money to anyone. During cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP for State, he denied the
suggestions that in October 2011, 2-3 boys had come to his office
or that they had stated that they were people of Neeraj Bawana
and that he should collect Rs.5000/- from each factory and pay
the money to them as protection money or that he told the boys
that the factory owners would not pay the money upon which the
boys gave him two days' time to pay Rs.10,00,000/- or that on his
repeated requests, they asked him to pay Rs.5 lakhs by the
evening or that in the evening he had paid Rs.5 lakhs to the boys.
As such he had also denied the suggestions regarding paying any
protection money to any person and the prosecution has not even
brought on record that any FIR was registered in that respect. 242. PW42 Lal Chand had stated that on 28.02.2014 his sons

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.259 of 385
 were killed but he did not remember as to who had killed his
sons. He had stated that three assailants had fired shots on his
sons but he did not know their names. During cross-examination
by the Ld. Additional PP for State, he had stated that out of the
assailants who killed his sons, two were from his village. He did
not know the names of those two assailants who were from his
village and he had volunteered that even in the Rohini Court he
had stated that he had not seen the assailants. He had stated that
he did not identify the real assailants in the Rohini Court as he
had an apprehension that those criminals could kill him and his
family members. He had admitted that he had stated in his
statement to the police that among the boys from the Skoda car,
two had attacked his sons, two boys were from his village
namely, Rahul Kala and Deepak Katia though he denied the
suggestion that he had stated to the police that those boys Rahul
Kala and Deepak along with other boys started firing gun shots
on his son and volunteered that he simply saw his son lying dead.
He admitted that after hearing the voice of gun shots, his other
son Captan Singh intervened to save his brother and thereafter
Rahul Kala and Deepak and other boys started firing shots on his
other son Captan Singh and even after both the sons fell down on
the ground due to gun fire, the assailants still kept on firing on
his sons while they were lying on the ground. He had also denied
making the complaint to the police on which FIR No.183/2014
was registered and he could not say if the third assailant who
killed his sons was Ravi Mania who was arrested in the case. He
could not identify the accused Rahul Kala as he stated he had
very weak eyesight. It is pertinent that though PW42 had

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.260 of 385
 admitted having stated to the police that the accused Rahul Kala
was one of the boys who had fired on his son, the incident which
has been referred to took place when the car of the accused
persons scratched the tempo of his son on which the boys sitting
in the car started fighting with his son and they had pistol in their
hands. As such at the most it was an incident of road rage and
cannot be said to be connected to the activities of the gang or
having any motive of pecuniary gain or even any other
advantage. It is also significant that during cross-examination
PW42 stated that he was not aware if the accused Rahul @ Kala
had already been acquitted from Court of Rohini in FIR
No.183/2014. It is not disputed that the accused Rahul @ Kala
stands acquitted in the said case besides there being nothing to
connect the said case to any organized crime syndicate. 243. PW50 during cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP

for State had denied the suggestion that he had stated to the
police that he had started the job of cashier in Head Quarter "Z"
Restro-Bar or that in the month of October 2014, the Bar was on
the verge of closure and he along with his friends had taken it on
rent. He denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that
the associates of accused persons namely Pankaj Bawania and
Neeraj Bawania used to come in the Restro-Bar and used to
enjoy without paying money to them or that they used to give
Rs.50,000/- as protection money to the accused Pankaj. He had
identified the accused Neeraj though he also stated that he had
identified him as his videos come on Facebook but he did not
identify the accused Pankaj. Thus, PW50 had denied the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.261 of 385
 suggestions put to him and his testimony does not help the case
of the prosecution and even it is not shown that any FIR was got
registered by the said witness. 244. PW53 Sandeep Gaba had stated about running the business

of iron and he had denied making the statement dated 10.05.2015
Mark PW53/1 to the police. He denied the suggestion that before
November 2014, he used to run a book shop and one Kabadi
shop in Subhash Nagar and volunteered he had a steel plant. He
also denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that a
local criminal and a local financer namely Gurpreet Singh had
come to his house in November 2014 and took him to one factory
situated in Village Kamruddin Nagar or that he introduced him to
gangster Neeraj Bawana who was present there with his
associates Naveen Huda @ Bhanja and others or that Gurpreet
threatened him to pay Rs.50,000/- per month as protection money
to Neeraj Bawana or to face dire consequences or that the
accused Neeraj Bawana showed his pistol to him and fired from
the pistol on the wall of the factory and he got scared due to the
same and thereafter he started paying Rs.50,000/- as protection
money. He further denied the suggestion that Neeraj Bawana
along with Gurpreet asked him to help Gurpreet in identifying
the business/ bookies who could pay extortion/ protection money
for the gang of Neeraj Bawana or that the accused Gurpreet
Singh used to take protection money in the last week of every
month or that Gurpreet Singh, Neeraj Bawana and their
associates had threatened him and extorted over Rs.2 lakhs on
different occasions or that in January 2015, the accused Neeraj

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.262 of 385
 Bawana and Rambeer Shokeen had also called him to their office
at Village Kamruddin Nagar and extorted Rs.5 lakhs from him
for assembly elections of 2015 and used his car for campaigning
purpose during the assembly elections of 2015. He did not
identify any of the accused persons. As such PW53 had denied
the suggestions about any threat being extended to him or any
money being extorted from him and as such his testimony does
not help the case of the prosecution and it has not even come in
his evidence that he had got any FIR registered. 245. PW58 Lalit Mathur had during cross-examination by the

Ld. Additional PP stated that he was running a tile manufacturing
factory in Majari Village. He had admitted that on 21.02.2015
when he was at his flat at Rohini, he had received a call on his
mobile number though he did not remember if the said person
had stated his name to be Bali or that he was the brother of
Neeraj Bawana or if he had demanded Rs.50 lakhs from him or
that he told him that he would not give the amount or that
thereafter he threatened to kill him through his associates in a
few days. He admitted that he had disconnected the phone
thereafter and during the night he received two threatening calls
but he volunteered that he did not pick the calls. He admitted that
he received another threatening call during the day time but he
did not remember the name of the caller and denied the
suggestion that he had stated to the IO that the caller was Naveen
Bali or that he asked him to pay the amount or when he refused
to pay the money, he told him that it appeared that he was not
interested in running the factory or that he threatened him that he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.263 of 385
 would shoot him in the head and would not allow him to sit in
the factory. He admitted that he had lodged FIR in PS Samaypur
Badli on 24.02.2015 though he did not remember the FIR
number and he could not say if the FIR number was 246/2015.
He had not stated to the police that later on Naveen Bali and his
associates were arrested in the FIR. As such PW58 did not
remember most of the things that were put to him though he had
stated about receiving threatening calls. He did not remember if
the caller had stated his name to be Bali or that he was the
brother of Neeraj Bawana. It is pertinent that during cross-
examination PW58 stated that the police had not got any voice
sample verified by him in respect of the calls, though he denied
the suggestion that no call was made by Naveen Bali. It may also
be mentioned that the FIR in the present case was registered on
23.02.2015 and the FIR on the complaint of PW58 was registered
on 24.02.2015. 246. PW59 Anoop Singh stated that in January 2015, he had

received a call from Naveen Bali on his mobile though he did not
remember the number of his mobile on which he received the call
nor the number from which the call was made. He had stated
about making a recording of the call by Bali. He had stated that
the accused Naveen Bali had asked him to vacate the plot
otherwise he would kill him and what he would do with the plot
if he was not alive. He had stated about making a complaint at PS
Shahbad Dairy on which FIR No.94/2015 was lodged which is
Mark PW59/1. He had stated that the case was still pending. He
could not identify Naveen Bali as he had never seen him. During

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.264 of 385
 cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP, he denied the
suggestion that on 24.01.2015, he had received a call from the
mobile of Deepa Pehlwan who had threatened him to kill him if
he did not vacate the plot of 1000 square yards or that he had
stated to the police that Naveen Bali and Deepa Pehlwan are
members of Neeraj Bawania Gang or that they wanted to take
possession of his plot after threatening him and he volunteered
that he had only stated about the call by Naveen Bali. It may be
mentioned that Deepak Dabas @ Deepa has already been
discharged in the present case. PW59 had stated about the call
from Naveen Bali who asked him to vacate the plot. However,
during cross-examination PW59 stated that he knew Satish and
Snehlata as they belonged to his family and stayed in Prahladpur.
Snehlata was the real Mami of Naveen Bali. He denied the
suggestion that no call was made by Naveen Bali. It was argued
by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons that there was a
family dispute between the parties and PW59 had stated that he
knew Satish and Snehlata as they belonged to his family and it
was Snehlata who was alleged to have taken possession of the
plot and as such the possibility of it being a family dispute cannot
be ruled out. 247. PW63 had also deposed about the said FIR and stated that

on 16.03.2015, in FIR No.94/2015 PS Shahbad Dairy, he had
arrested Naveen Dabas @ Bali s/o Narender Singh r/o Village
Sultanpur Dabas, Delhi from Patiala House Court premises and
he recorded his disclosure statement. Copy of the FIR is Mark
PW63/2. He had filed the charge sheet in the said case after

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.265 of 385
 completing the investigation and the same was pending trial. He
identified the accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali produced through
VC. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused persons he denied the suggestion that FIR No.94/2015
was lodged at the behest of officials of Special Cell to falsely
implicate the accused persons in the present FIR No.10/2015. He
stated that he did not remember if it had come during
investigation of FIR No.94/2015 that there was a property
dispute of mama of accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali with the
complainants of that case. He was shown the disclosure
statement of accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali and he stated that as
per the same, there was a property dispute of mama of accused
Naveen Dabas @ Bali with the complainants of that case. Thus,
even in the disclosure statement of the accused Naveen @ Bali, it
was recorded that there was a property dispute of mama of
accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali with the complainants of that
case. PW63 had also deposed about arresting Deepak Dabas @
Deepa in the said FIR No.94/2015 PS Shahbad Dairy though the
accused Deepak Dabas @ Deepa has already been discharged in
the present case. No doubt the accused Naveen Dabas @ Bali
was arrested in the said FIR but it is seen that the co-accused
Deepak Dabas @ Deepa has already been discharged and the said
FIR does not prove any nexus of the accused Naveen @ Bali
with the other accused persons. 248. PW60 Gurmeet Singh had stated that Gurpreet was the

nephew of his friend and he became friends with Gurpreet.
During cross-examination by the Ld. Additional PP for State, he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.266 of 385
 stated that he had not stated to the police that in the last week of
October 2014, Gurpreet called him and volunteered he had stated
that Gurpreet called him and asked him where he was and he
stated that he was at Hari Nagar on which he came there with
three other persons and introduced Neeraj Bawana and denied the
suggestion that he was also introduced to Naveen Bhanja. He had
denied the suggestion that he had stated to the police that
Gurpreet asked him to give them protection money and assured
him that no one would disturb him in his illegal betting business
and volunteered he did not have any such betting business. He
had not stated to the police that due to fear he agreed to pay them
Rs.20,000/- per month as protection money. He admitted that he
had stated to the police that in the first week of November 2014,
he got a call from Naveen Bhanja and he asked him to give Rs.1
lakh as protection money within one month and he told him that
he could only afford the pre-decided amount of Rs.20,000/- per
month but Naveen Bhanja told him that he would kill him if the
protection money of Rs.1 lakh was not paid and volunteered he
did not pay the amount and Naveen Bhanja told him that his wife
was pregnant and he needed the money. He had not stated to the
police that out of fear he told Gurpreet about the extortion call of
Naveen Bhanja on which he told him that he would talk to Neeraj
Bawana to reduce the amount or that Gurpreet talked to Neeraj
Bawana and agreed to receive Rs.50,000/- or that he paid the
amount to Neeraj Bawana through Gurpreet Singh and thereafter
he continued paying Rs.20,000/- per month to Neeraj Bawana till
February 2015 or that he had paid Rs.1.10 lakhs to Neeraj
Bawana through Gurpreet Singh due to fear of life to grant illegal

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.267 of 385
 book betting and volunteered he was not aware whether Gurpreet
talked to Neeraj Bawana or not but he stopped receiving the calls
and he had not paid any amount to anyone. He did not identify
the accused Neeraj in Court. It may be mentioned that Gurpreet
and Naveen Bhanja have both been discharged in the present case
and as such the testimony of PW60 cannot be read to show any
link between the accused Neeraj and Gurpeet and Naveen
Bhanja. At the most PW60 had stated about being introduced to
Neeraj Bawana and he had also denied about stating that due to
fear he agreed to pay Rs.20,000/- per month as extortion money
and he also denied making any other payment to Neeraj Bawana
through Gurpreet Singh. 249. During cross-examination PW60 admitted that Naveen

Bhanja had told him that he needed the money as his wife was
pregnant and volunteered that initially he had demanded the
money in a different manner and then stated about his wife being
pregnant. As such, PW60 had vacillated in his statement giving
different versions but even nothing has been brought on record to
show that he had got any FIR registered. 250. PW61 Anoop Singh @ Bittoo Bolder testified that he knew

Gurpreet as he used to reside in his Mohalla and during cross-
examination by the Ld. Additional PP he was confronted with the
statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. Mark PW61/1. He admitted
that he had stated to the police that in 2014 he used to do betting
with the friends of his circle and that in November 2014 Gurpreet
had come to his restaurant though he denied that he had stated to
the police that Gurpreet had introduced him to Pankaj Sehrawat

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.268 of 385
 who is the brother of Neeraj Bawana or that they had asked him
to pay protection money of Rs.50,000/- per month or that the
accused Pankaj Sehrawat had shown him a pistol or that on
seeing Pankaj in front of him, he got scared or that out of fear for
his life he used to give protection money to Gurpreet Singh in the
last week of every month. He also denied having stated to the
police that the accused Gurpreet Singh, Neeraj Bawania and his
friends on the threat of life had taken Rs.2 lakhs from him. He
did not identify the accused Pankaj. Again it is significant that
the accused Gurpreet has already been discharged and PW61 had
denied having stated to the police that Gurpreet and Pankaj had
asked him to pay protection money of Rs.50,000/- per month or
that he had paid around Rs.2 lakhs. Moreover, there is nothing in
his testimony to show that he had got any FIR registered. 251. It is thus seen that several witnesses were examined by the

prosecution to establish that the accused persons were engaged in
organized crime and were acting on behalf of an organized crime
syndicate but the witnesses were mostly hostile either on the
point of threat being extended or on the point of the person who
extended the threat and in case of some of the witnesses, it has
not even been brought on record that they had made any
complaint on the basis of which any FIR was registered. PW74
was also cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
and he admitted that in so far as the investigation was carried out
by him, specific and quantifiable amounts pertaining to the land
disputes settled, properties acquired or generated and cash
accumulated by the organized crime syndicate could not be

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.269 of 385
 brought on record. During investigation, he did not recall if it
came to his knowledge that any Court had held that the accused
persons were members of any organized crime syndicate. He did
not recall if it came to his knowledge during investigation as to
how many accused persons were there in FIR No.1683/2015 PS
Mangolpuri. He denied the suggestion that he being the
complainant of the case was interested in success of this case
hence, he carried out the investigation in a biased manner or that
he had manipulated the statements of witnesses and had not
recorded the correct version of witnesses. He denied the
suggestion that he forced the witnesses to depose according to his
wish before the Ld. Magistrate in their statement under Section
164 Cr.P.C. or that the accused persons had been falsely
implicated in this case or that the accused Neeraj and Pankaj
were surviving on the proceeds of their agricultural land and
rental income accruing to their parents. The accused Pankaj in his
statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. had stated that he was
involved in family occupation of farming and also in the rental
and property dealing business and was living out of those
earnings. Though the accused persons have not led any evidence
to show the same, the prosecution has also not shown any
specific and quantifiable amounts pertaining to the land disputes
settled, properties acquired or generated and cash accumulated by
the alleged organized crime syndicate. Further, PW74 did not
recall if it came to his knowledge that any Court had held that the
accused persons were members of any organized crime
syndicate. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.270 of 385 252. Several witnesses were then examined by the prosecution

regarding the role of the accused Rambeer Shokeen or pertaining
to his arrest. PW14 was the IO of the case and had arrested the
accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present case and filed a
supplementary charge sheet against him and nothing material had
come out in his cross-examination qua the arrest of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen. PW16 had stated about the apprehension of
the accused Rambeer Shokeen in FIR No.65/2016 PS Special
Cell and he had also filed the charge sheet in the said case. The
said FIR was registered under Sections 25 / 27 / 54 / 59 Arms Act.
The documents of the said case were admitted by the accused
persons on 09.09.2022 and are Ex.C-59 (colly) and the certified
copy of the charge sheet is Ex.PW16/1. As per the testimony of
PW16, FIR No.65/2016 against accused Rambeer Shokeen was
registered on 27.11.2016 i.e. much after the registration of the
present case (though there is no legal bar to considering cases
which come up even during investigation of a case under MCOC
Act ). PW51 had also deposed about the apprehension of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen in the said case and he was
extensively cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. During cross-examination PW51 stated that he was
accompanied by SI Yogesh, ASI Sandeep, HC Rohtash, Ct.
Narender and informer when accused Rambeer Shokeen was
apprehended. He had first informed the senior officers about the
apprehension namely ACP Govind Sharma. He was the first IO in
FIR No.65/2016 and ASI Bachu was the second IO. ASI Bachu
had visited the spot in his presence. He reached the spot around
9.30-10 p.m. He stated that when ASI Bachu reached the spot he

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.271 of 385
 was present there along with SI Yogesh and ASI Sandeep. He
was carrying the IO kit with him. He had reached Yuva Shakti
School around 6.30 p.m. DD No.7 was lodged regarding his
departure. He had specified the names of the team members in
the departure entry. 253. PW51 further stated that there were a few houses around

the Yuva Shakti School. He offered his search to the accused
before searching him. The accused Rambeer had come to the spot
in a Fortuner when he apprehended him. He did not remember
the number of the Fortuner. The Fortuner was being driven by
Sandeep Dhaka who was the owner of the Fortuner and on the
passenger seat was Vijay Gahlot. Sandeep Dhaka had escaped
from the spot. Vijay Gahlot had shown a pistol and before he
could be apprehended, he escaped from the spot. The
identification of Sandeep Dhaka and Vijay Gahlot was revealed
to him by the accused Rambeer Shokeen. He had not arrested
Sandeep Dhaka in the present case and volunteered he was not
the IO of the present case. Sandeep Dhaka was informed about
the arrest of Rambeer Shokeen in the present case. He had
handed over sealed case property to the IO in FIR No.65/2016
along with seizure memo, sketch and copy of rukka. He had
prepared the seizure memo in the said case. He stated that a
magazine would be required to load the bullet in the pistol. A
magazine was also seized in the present case. He did not
specifically mention about the magazine in the sketch and
volunteered magazine is part of the pistol. 254. PW51 also stated that the two bullets shown in the sketch

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.272 of 385
 were recovered from the magazine. He denied the suggestion that
no weapon was recovered from the accused Rambeer and the
same was planted by him at the behest of his seniors to falsely
implicate accused Rambeer in FIR No.10/2015, PS Special Cell.
He stated that he did not record the disclosure statement of the
accused Rambeer at the time of his apprehension in FIR
No.65/2016. He did not remember how many times his statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. was recorded in the present case and
volunteered in respect of the accused Rambeer, his statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. was recorded twice. At the time of
recording of disclosure statement of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen, he was present along with ACP Govind Sharma. The
description of the seal with which the weapon was sealed was
SPL CELL NDR 15. The seal remained with the Malkhana. He
denied the suggestion that the accused Rambeer was not
apprehended from Yuva Shakti School, Rama Vihar or that the
rukka and sketch memos were prepared while sitting in the police
station or that blank papers were got signed from accused
Rambeer and no such disclosure was ever made by the accused
Rambeer or that the accused Rambeer was illegally arrested
without following the guidelines passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court. Thus, PW51 was extensively cross-examined on behalf of
the accused and though a suggestion was put to him that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was not arrested from near the Yuva
Shakti School, no suggestion was put to him as to from where,
according to the accused, he was arrested in FIR No.65/2016.
During cross-examination PW74 denied the suggestion that the
weapon was falsely planted upon the accused Rambeer Shokeen

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.273 of 385
 at the time of his arrest only to strengthen the present case and
volunteered he had not arrested the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 255. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had

argued that the weapon was planted on the accused at the time of
his apprehension to support the fake allegations made in the
present FIR and pursuant to his arrest in the said FIR, the accused
was arrested in the present FIR. It was also submitted that not
even a single public witness was cited by the officials of the
Special Cell in the said case and no fingerprints were lifted from
the alleged weapon and no source of the alleged weapon was
ever investigated by the officials of the Special Cell. However,
the merits of the said case need not be gone into in the present
case as it was submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused
Rambeer Shokeen that charge had been framed in the said matter
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen and as such the said matter
is being tried separately. Suffice it to state that the said case was
registered under Arms Act and there is nothing in the said case to
connect the accused Rambeer Shokeen to the other accused
persons of the present case and the only other accused in the said
case was one Vijay Gahlot and there is nothing on record to show
that Vijay Gahlot had any connection with the crime syndicate
allegedly run by the accused Neeraj. 256. PW34 Komal Sharma deposed that he knew Rambeer

Shokeen as his village was near his house. He had stated about
the wife of the accused Rambeer Shokeen contesting in the
election of municipal corporation and winning the same and
thereafter, Rambeer Shokeen had also contested for the assembly

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.274 of 385
 seat of Mundka constituency and won that election. He stated
that he had not extended any monetary help in that election and
had also not given any loan to them. He had stated about seeing
the accused Pankaj Sehrawat during the election of Rambeer
Shokeen and stated that he had never received any threat either
from Rambeer Shokeen or Pankaj Sehrawat. During cross-
examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for State, PW34 denied the
suggestions that during the election of municipal corporation
which was contested by his wife, Rambeer Shokeen had taken a
loan of Rs.2.5 lakhs from him, promising to return it in a week
but he did not return the money or that later Rambeer Shokeen
stopped receiving his calls and stopped talking to him or that in
the year 2015 during the assembly elections, Rambeer Shokeen
sought his support over the telephone but he disconnected the
phone or that thereafter Rambeer Shokeen sent his people for
forcing him to support him but he refused or that one day Pankaj
came to his office, he was accompanied by many people and he
threatened him either to leave Delhi or face dire consequences or
that thereafter, supporters/ criminals linked with Rambeer
Shokeen told him that Rambeer would sort him out after the
elections. He was confronted with the statement Mark PW34/A
wherein the said facts were recorded. He stated that he was not
aware whether on 14.03.2015 Pankaj Sehrawat and his mother
were apprehended at the airport and denied the suggestion that on
14.03.2015 he had received a message on his mobile
No.9818137555 in this regard or that on 15.03.2015 one Jagdev,
maternal uncle of Neeraj called him and asked him to go to Tihar
Jail to give clothes to Pankaj's mother but he denied or that in the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.275 of 385
 first week of April 2015 Neeraj messaged him over his phone and
demanded money but he denied or that he then messaged him to
sell a Scorpio car of Pankaj but he again denied. Thus, PW34 was
examined to show the connection of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen, Pankaj Sehrawat and Neeraj. While it is not in dispute
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen is the maternal uncle of
accused Pankaj Sehrawat and Neeraj and PW34 had also stated
about seeing the accused Pankaj Sehrawat during the elections of
accused Rambeer Shokeen, nothing had come out in the
examination of PW34 which would show that they were part of
any organized crime syndicate or acting on its behalf. 257. PW40 had deposed about running a liquor shop in Haryana

and about the accused Deepak @ Deepa wanting liquor, who met
him along with Rs.3 lakhs. He stated about the accused Deepak
@ Deepa giving him Rs.3 lakhs and from December 2013 to
January 2014 the boys of Deepak @ Deepa kept on taking boxes
of liquor bottles from liquor shop. He had also stated that he had
heard the name of accused Neeraj Bawana but he had no
connection or concern with him. At the cost of repetition, it is
stated that the accused Deepak @ Deepa has already been
discharged in the present case and even otherwise nothing
incriminating has come out in the testimony of PW40 qua the
other accused persons. It was sought to be contended on behalf of
the prosecution that the said liquor was procured for the purpose
of use in elections of the accused Rambeer Shokeen but the
material on record does not point to any such linkage. 258. A number of witnesses had then been examined by the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.276 of 385
 prosecution to prove the charges against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen of harboring, concealing and organizing the
concealment of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawana
by providing a false identity and for holding money and property
derived and obtained from commission of organized crime and
for being in possession of immovable property which he could
not satisfactorily account for. PW43 is the person whose voter
identity card was allegedly forged for the benefit of the accused
Neeraj and he had admitted that on both the voter identity cards
lying on the judicial record, number of his original voter identity
card was mentioned which was in the name of Prashant Kaushik
S/o Pramod Kaushik and photograph on the said voter identity
card was of some other person. Moreover, the address on the
overleaf was not correct according to the original. The copy is
Mark PX. It is pertinent that PW43 stated that he knew the
accused Rambeer Shokeen as he had been earlier their local
MLA but he also stated that Rambeer Shokeen had never taken
his voter identity card from him at any point of time. He also
knew the accused Neeraj Bawania who was a known criminal but
he could not say if the photograph depicted on the voter identity
card Mark PX was of Neeraj Bawania. During cross-examination
by the Ld. Addl. PP for State, he denied the suggestion that he
had stated in his statement to the police that former MLA
Rambeer Shokeen had taken his voter identity card on the pretext
of some important work and that he was not aware as to how
copy of his voter identity card reached the accused Neeraj
Bawania. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.277 of 385 259. During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused

Rambeer Shokeen PW43 stated that he had met accused Rambeer
Shokeen once in the campaigning of elections. He had never seen
the originals of copy Mark PX as shown to him in the Court.
Thus, PW43 had stated that he knew the accused Rambeer
Shokeen but he had never taken his voter identity card from him
at any point of time. PW3 had deposed about the verification of
Voter ID card and that after verification, it was found that Voter
ID card No.IPN2924296 was issued in the name of Shri Navin
Jha, son of Shri Dinesh Jha, r/o 9, Village Nilothi, Nangloi and
voter card No.IPN2938362 was issued in the name of Balwinder
Kaur, wife of Shri Jaswinder Singh, r/o A-77, Block-A, Vikas
Vihar, Nilothi Extension, New Delhi. However, the prosecution
has not been able to establish that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
had taken the Voter ID card of PW43 and thereafter handed it
over to the accused Neeraj who changed the name on it and
created two other Voter ID cards and used the same. It was
argued by the Ld. Addl. PP that PW35 had matched the
handwriting of the accused Neeraj on the Voter ID card but that
does not show any connection with the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. 260. It is then the case of the prosecution that the record showed

that the accused Neeraj had stayed in various hotels under
different identities and also used the Voter ID of PW43 for the
said purpose. A perusal of the testimony of PW28 shows that he
had testified about one Vikas Kumar who checked-in to their
hotel 'Senses' in Kolkata on 14.03.2015 and stayed there till

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.278 of 385
 18.03.2015 and he had proved the documents in that regard. The
guest registration form pertaining to the said customer is
Ex.PW28/3 and he had submitted copy of driving license which
is Ex.PW28/5. It was submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for State that
PW28 had deposed about the stay of Vikas in the hotel and in
fact Neeraj had stayed as Vikas and the signatures had been
proved by the handwriting expert to be of Neeraj. However, that
only shows that the accused Neeraj had stayed in the hotel under
a fake identity but it does not show the connection of any other
accused with him nor does it show that the accused Neeraj was
doing any act on behalf of any organized crime syndicate nor it
has any specific bearing on the present case. PW29 had deposed
about one Neeraj Kumar and Vipin checking in to their hotel on
14.01.2015 at Chandigarh and the Ld. Addl. PP had argued that
PW29 had also stated about use of forged documents and Amit @
Bhura had stayed with Neeraj who stayed as Vipin. However,
Amit @ Bhura has already been discharged in the present case.
PW38 had provided the documents in respect of stay of guests at
their hotel in Ujjain but nothing much turns on the same. 261. The prosecution had further relied upon documents

relating to stay of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake name and
ID of Prashant with others in Hotel Narayan; relating to stay of
accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake name and ID of Prashant with
others in Hotel Jai Mahal from 03.09.2014 - 04.09.2014; relating
to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake name and ID of
Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel Savera from January 06-
09, 2015; relating to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.279 of 385
 name and ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in Hotel Juhu
Residency from January 24-27, 2015; relating to stay of accused
Neeraj Sehrawat on fake name and ID of Vikas Kumar with
others in Hotel Suba Galaxy from January 04-05, 2015; relating
to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake ID of Vikas Kumar
with others in Hotel Marigold from April 01-03, 2015; relating to
stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake ID of Prashant Kaushik
with others in Hotel Raj Palace from February 21-26, 2015;
relating to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on fake ID of Vikas
Kumar with others in Hotel Rupasi Bangla from February 26 to
March 03, 2015; relating to stay of accused Neeraj Sehrawat on
fake ID of Prashant Bhardwaj with others in Hotel Geetanjali
from March 03-06, 2015; relating to stay of accused Neeraj with
others in Hotel Host International from April 01-06, 2014;
relating to stay of accused Neeraj with others in Hotel Kings
Crown from April 06-07, 2014; relating to stay of accused Neeraj
Sehrawat on fake ID of Vikas Kumar with others in Hotel
Devsagar from March 12-14, 2015; relating to stay of accused
Neeraj Sehrawat on fake ID of Prashant Kaushik with others in
Hotel N. S. International from March 06-07, 2015; relating to
stay of accused Neeraj with others in Hotel Majestic International
from March 09-11, 2015; and relating to stay of accused Neeraj
with Arvind Rohilla and others in Hotel Green View from March
27-28, 2015. The said documents were admitted by the accused
persons on 09.09.2022. Other than Prashant Kaushik, the others
whose identities were faked have not been examined in the
present case. Regarding the said record of hotels which has been
relied upon by the prosecution, even if it is accepted that the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.280 of 385
 accused Neeraj had resided in the said hotels under fake
identities, there is nothing to show the connection of the said stay
with being a member of or running the organized crime syndicate
as it is not the case that while so residing in any of the hotels, any
organized crime was committed. Even it cannot be said that the
stay in the hotels shows that the resources for the same were
derived from organized crime in the absence of any specific
evidence in that regard. The record at best shows that the accused
Neeraj had stayed in various hotels under fake identities and was
thereby trying to conceal himself but it does not reflect that any
other accused had a role in his concealment, much less the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. 262. PW6 was examined to show that his debit card was used

by the accused persons. He had identified the accused Pankaj and
Neeraj as his cousins and he had deposed about having a debit
card which he had given to his father Jagdev Singh Shokeen. He
denied having knowledge about any person by the name of Amit
Malik @ Bhura. During cross-examination, he had stated that his
father Shri Jagdev Singh Shokeen used to operate and handle his
said account and he was operating the said account after the
death of his father. When he was recalled for examination in
respect of the accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW6 reiterated that the
debit card used to be in the possession of his father and he did
not know as to who might have been using the same. The Ld.
Addl. PP had submitted that the said debit card was used by Amit
Malik @ Bhura but the said accused has already been discharged
in the present case and the testimony of PW6 does not show any

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.281 of 385
 connection to any of the accused persons in the present case who
are facing trial. 263. It is also the case of the prosecution that the accused

Neeraj Bawana had purchased mobiles from the shop of PW54
out of extortion money. PW54 had stated about two persons
coming to his shop to purchase a mobile though he had not
identified the accused Neeraj Bawana before the Court. When he
was cross-examined by the Ld. Addl. PP for State, PW54 had
admitted that the said persons had come to his shop twice i.e. on
06.03.2015 and 11.03.2015 and that one of the persons who
called himself Vikas had sold a mobile make LG Nexus 6 to him
and in exchange of the same, second hand mobile make LG G-3
was given to Vikas. During cross-examination by the Ld.
Counsel for the accused persons PW54 stated that he was the
owner of the mobile shop. At the time of purchase of mobiles, no
identity document was taken and volunteered identity document
was taken only for sale of SIM cards. He was not the authorized
dealer of any mobile company and volunteered he was a small
shop owner. He admitted that he had given copy of bill of one
mobile and one mobile was exchanged. He had not handed over
any document to the police showing that he was the owner of the
shop nor he had brought it that day and volunteered it was not
asked. He had not brought the original register that day and
volunteered he had shut the shop. He admitted that in the register
the make of the phone and the name of the person who purchased
it were not mentioned and volunteered the IMEI number was
mentioned. He could not tell how there were entries regarding

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.282 of 385
 2014 and one entry regarding 2015 and volunteered the matter
was old. He stated that the cuttings were to mark the phones
which were sold. He denied the suggestion that he was not a
mobile handset seller or purchaser or that he only dealt in mobile
accessories as was apparent from Mark PW54/1 or that the
phones were neither sold by him nor purchased by him as
recorded in the stock register Mark PW54/3 (colly). He denied
the suggestion that he was deposing falsely at the instance of the
IO or that the documents handed over by him to the police
officers were forged and fabricated documents and the same were
created at the behest of police officials. Even though PW54 was
cross-examined extensively on behalf of the accused persons and
he had deposed about sale of mobile phones, nothing much turns
on the same and it is also not the case that the said phones were
used for making any extortion calls and there is nothing to
establish that the said phones were purchased out of extortion
money. 264. It was then argued that the accused Neeraj had attempted

to get a passport in Kolkata under another identity as he wanted
to flee the country and the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
facilitated the same. During cross-examination by the Ld. Addl.
PP for State, PW31 had denied the suggestions that he had
attended election meetings of Rambeer Shokeen or that in
February 2014, he had met Neeraj Bawania in the office of
Rambeer Shokeen or that Rambeer Shokeen instructed him to go
to Kolkata with Neeraj as Neeraj who was on parole, wanted to
jump parole and flee the country or that thereafter, they went to

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.283 of 385
 Kolkata in a Mahindra Scorpio which was arranged by Rambeer
Shokeen or that after reaching Kolkata, Neeraj asked him to find
an agent who could get a passport prepared on false ID or that
thereafter he introduced Neeraj to one Manu who was having an
old travel agency or that Manu agreed to arrange a passport for
Rs.70,000/- or that Neeraj Bawania paid the said amount to
Manu or that thereafter, Manu got some documents prepared
through Maqbul and with the said documents passport
application was submitted or that they stayed in different hotels
in Kolkata for one month. Thus, PW31 had denied the
suggestions put to him in this regard. PW33 who was working as
Senior Supervisor in Regional Passport Office, Kolkata had
deposed about receiving an application form of Suraj Singh S/o
Prem Singh R/o Bahirsorva Mongla, Bardwan, 713101 for
passport and that on account of adverse police report the passport
was not issued. He had stated that another application was also
filed which is Ex.PW33/4. Nothing material had come out in the
cross-examination of the said witness. It was argued by the Ld.
Addl. PP for State that the handwriting on the said application
was matched by PW35 to be of the accused Neeraj. However,
that does not establish that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
any role in the same and it has also not been shown that any FIR
was got registered in that respect. Further, PW36 who was the
Sub Divisional Controller, Food and Supplies, Burdwan Khady
Bhawan, Burdwan, West Bengal had stated about there being no
ration card in the name of Suraj Singh issued on 27.04.2011, in
whose name the passport application was made. Thus, it has been
brought on record that there was no ration card existing in the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.284 of 385
 name of Suraj Singh on the basis of which passport was sought in
the name of Suraj Singh and as per the case of the prosecution,
the handwriting in the application for passport was that of the
accused Neeraj but that does not help to establish any of the
offences with which the accused persons have been charged with
in the present case, nor there is anything to show that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen had in any manner facilitated the accused
Neeraj Bawana in obtaining a false passport. 265. It is then the case of the prosecution that the accused

Rambeer Shokeen had got money transferred to the accused
Neeraj which showed his role in facilitating the crime syndicate.
PW18 Sachin Goel had deposed that he was in the business of
money transfer under his own name. He had stated that in the
month of March 2015, one Ashish approached him to transfer
Rs.50,500/- in one account in the name of Jasbir Singh held with
HDFC Bank. He gave him Rs.51,000/- and he transferred
Rs.50,550/- in the account of Jasbir as had been instructed by
Ashish from his personal account of OBC. The register which he
used to maintain in his usual course of business wherein the
entries of transactions done by him were made is Ex.PW18/1 and
the entry of the transaction conducted at the request of Ashish
whereby an amount of Rs.50,550/- was transferred to the HDFC
account of Jasbir is at point A on page 44. The mobile number
reflected against the entry was of the client Ashish, full name
Ashish Nain. The prosecution had also placed on record the
details of account No.0328501-1000455 in the name of Sachin
Goel and the said documents were admitted by the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.285 of 385
 persons on 09.09.2022. PW18 was extensively cross-examined
on behalf of the accused persons and during cross-examination
PW18 stated that he had not issued any receipt of the money
deposited by him and volunteered it was not required because the
moment the money was transferred the customer would receive
an SMS. Thus, no receipt was produced but there is other
evidence available on record to show the transaction. He further
stated that he had not checked the identity of that person to verify
that his name was in fact Ashish Nain. He stated that most of the
times, he recorded the name of the depositor but in the present
case, the name of Ashish had not been mentioned. He admitted
that he only wrote the name of the person to whom the amount
was remitted and not of the person who remitted the amount.
However, nothing much turns on the same as Ashish has also
been examined in the present case as PW41. 266. PW18 was also cross-examined regarding the entry in the

register and he stated that the entry at point A on page 44 in
Ex.PW18/1 was in his handwriting. He stated that his staff also
used to make entries in the register. He denied the suggestion that
Ashish Nain never approached him for the deposit of any amount
to any other account or that at the behest of the investigating
agency, entry at point A on Ex.PW18/1 was created only at a later
stage after the registration of the present FIR. He admitted that at
some places there were cuttings in the register Ex.PW18/1.
However, there is nothing to dispute the entry regarding the
transaction in question. PW18 further stated that he had an
agreement with the platform through which he used to remit the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.286 of 385
 money. For violation of the agreement, the company could take
action. The register which had been produced was for his own
record and the accounts which were submitted to the company
were maintained on computer/ on the portal of the company. He
had not given access to the Online portal to the police. He had
given the copy of the agreement to the police. He had not given
the printouts of the account maintained at the portal. In the portal,
the name of the person who sent the money was not recorded.
Only his mobile number was recorded. However, the name of the
account holder who received the money along with the account
number was recorded. He stated that apart from the agreement,
no other agreement was signed between him and MMPL Private
Limited. He was conducting his business as per the said
agreement. He admitted that as per his agreement, before any
transaction on behalf of any customer, he was to collect his
identification documents and fill up KYC form which was to be
then forwarded to the company. He admitted that there was a
clause in the agreement according to which failure to comply
with KYC norms would amount to compromising national
security and despite that he did not obtain KYC form in this case.
He admitted that as per the contract he could not transfer more
than Rs.50,000/- for a customer. He denied the suggestion that
only that record which was entered on the computer and on the
portal of the company could be considered original record of his
transaction. However, PW18 had stated that in the present case,
he had transferred the money from his personal account and not
through the M-rupee platform and as such the agreement with
MMPL is not of much significance. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.287 of 385 267. During further cross-examination PW18 stated that after

his statement was recorded in this case, neither he had contacted
the police nor the police had contacted him regarding the
investigation of this case. The register which he had handed over
to the police was not sealed in his presence. He denied the
suggestion that he had along with the police officials of Special
Cell manipulated the register Ex.PW18/1 to falsely implicate the
accused in this case or that the alleged manipulation was done as
the officials of Special Cell had threatened him to book him in a
case of very serious nature involving national security if he did
not agree to the said manipulation as well as deposing falsely
before the Court in this case as per the whims and fancies of
Special Cell officials. He denied the suggestion that he had never
known or met Mr. Ashish Nain nor had conducted any
transaction/ money transfer for him or that the only time he had
met Ashish Nain was in the office of Special Cell when he was
called there by the Special Cell. Thus, PW18 had denied the
suggestions put to him and there is also nothing to dispute the
transaction by which money was transferred in the name of
Jasbir. 268. PW41 Ashish Nain had deposed that his sister was married

with Neeraj Sehrawat R/o Village Bawana. He had stated to the
IO of the present case regarding receiving of OTP on his mobile
phone regarding transfer of money but he was not aware from
whose account and into whose account the money was
transferred. During cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for
State he had denied stating in his statement to the police that on

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.288 of 385
 10.03.2015 maternal uncle of Neeraj Sehrawat namely, Rambeer
Shokeen called him in his office at Kamruddin Nagar, Nangloi
and that he told him that Neeraj Sehrawat was outside and he
required money for expenditure, for that purpose, Rambeer
Shokeen handed over him cash of Rs.50,500/- along with
Rs.700/- for commission agent and slip for depositing the said
amount in the name of Jasbir Singh in HDFC account No.
06851000028163. He had not stated in his statement given in the
present case that he thereafter visited in the office of Sachin Goel
at Kusumdeep Building, Azadpur Commercial Complex, Delhi
and gave him cash of Rs.50,500/- and Rs.700/- as commission/
transaction fee or that thereupon Sachin Goel asked him his
contact number and he gave him his mobile number being
9990861654 (though he volunteered that the mobile number was
correctly his) or that thereafter, Sachin Goel transferred the cash
from his personal bank account to HDFC bank account of Jasbir
Singh. He was also confronted with the statement Ex.PW41/PA.
PW41 had also stated that he not made any inquiry regarding the
OTP number received in his mobile phone as stated by him in his
examination in chief though he had admitted receiving the OTP.
As such, despite PW41 not admitting the transaction, he had
received the OTP and he also admitted his mobile number.
During cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for accused
Rambeer Shokeen PW41 admitted that he had never met with
accused Rambeer Shokeen at any point of time and had never
talked with accused Rambeer Shokeen even on phone. Thus,
while the transaction of sending money to the account of PW31
stands established, in view of the testimony of PW41, there is

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.289 of 385
 nothing to prove that PW41 had done the transaction at the
behest of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 269. Further, PW31 Jasbir Singh @ Goldy is the person in

whose account the money was allegedly transferred and he was
also examined in this regard though he was hostile regarding the
suggestions put to him qua the transfer of money. He deposed
that he did not know anybody named Rambeer Shokeen or
Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawania. However, around 6 or 7
years prior he was in Kolkata where he met one Shakti who had
purchased some pairs of juttis from him; later, he proposed him
that they could share a room and divide the rent amongst
themselves and they stayed in a hotel near Chorangi Market.
There were three people who stayed in that room i.e. him, Shakti
and his cousin, whom he later came to know was Neeraj
Sehrawat although he was staying in the hotel by using a
different name. He had also stated about giving his debit card of
HDFC bank to Shakti to use it for withdrawal of money. He had
identified his signatures on the statement recorded under Section
164 Cr.P.C as Ex.PW31/1 but he stated that he had not given any
such statement to the Ld. Magistrate and that he had stated
whatever had been instructed by the police to state before the Ld.
Magistrate. During cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for
State, PW31 had denied the suggestion that he had given his
HDFC ATM card to Rambeer Shokeen or that later on he had
seen his debit card in the hands of Neeraj Bawania and when he
asked him about the said card, he said that he had been given the
said card by Rambeer Shokeen for his expenses or that Rambeer

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.290 of 385
 Shokeen would deposit money in his account and Neeraj would
use the card and withdraw the money for his use. 270. PW31 further stated that he had seen the debit card/ATM

card bearing No.4363030405443805 of HDFC bank belonging to
him which was the same card that he had given to Shakti and is
Ex.Article P-1. He denied the suggestion that he had given the
said card to Rambeer Shokeen, who in turn had given it to
Neeraj. He denied the suggestion that Shakti had not returned the
said card to him as stated by him or that it was recovered from
the possession of Neeraj Bawania and volunteered he had been
called to the PS for his statement where they had taken the said
card from him. He denied the suggestion that the said ATM card
was recovered at the time of arrest of Neeraj in FIR No.30/15 of
PS Special Cell or that was why he was lying that it was taken by
police from him when he was called for his statement at Special
Cell as his statement was recorded much later than the arrest of
accused Neeraj Bawania. He identified the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. Thus, PW31 had identified the accused Rambeer
Shokeen but he had denied the suggestion that he had given his
debit card to the accused Rambeer Shokeen who had in turn
given it to the accused Neeraj and that Rambeer Shokeen would
deposit the money in the account of PW31 and accused Neeraj
would use the same. At the same time, the story put forth by
PW31 of giving the debit card to Shakti appears unbelievable as
it does not stand to reason that he would agree to share a room
with a person who had only purchased some articles from him
and he would also hand over his debit card to him to use it for

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.291 of 385
 withdrawal of money but in the absence of any cogent evidence,
not much reliance can be placed on the same. The record shows
that other than the transaction about which PW18 and PW41 had
deposed, the prosecution has not brought on record specific
evidence to show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
deposited money in the account of PW31 and even in respect of
the transaction deposed about by PW18 and PW41, there is
nothing to establish the connection of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen with the same. The prosecution had relied on the details
of account No.068510-00028163 of PW31 Jasbir Singh to
contend that the same was used by accused Neeraj Sehrawat and
the said documents were admitted by the accused persons on
09.09.2022 but a perusal of the same also does not show that the
money was deposited therein by the accused Rambeer Shokeen
or that the said account was used by the accused Neeraj
Sehrawat. As such, there is nothing to show that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen had facilitated the accused Neeraj Bawana or
provided funds to him. 271. The Ld. Addl. PP had argued that PW31 had shared the

room with Neeraj though in a different name and that he had
admitted his statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and that he had
stated that the accused Neeraj used to foot the bill for dinner and
had also identified the accused Rambeer Shokeen. However,
merely identifying the accused Rambeer Shokeen is of no
relevance when PW31 denied handing over this debit card to him
and also denied the other suggestions that were put to him
regarding the alleged role of PW31. Further, PW31 had himself

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.292 of 385
 stated about staying with two persons in Kolkata, name of one of
whom he later came to know as Neeraj but that does not show
any complicity of the accused Rambeer Shokeen. As regards the
contention that PW31 had admitted his statement under Section
164 Cr.P.C., he had stated that he had stated what he had been
instructed to state by the police before the Ld. Magistrate. During
cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP, PW31 admitted that
whenever they would go out in Kolkata in night for dinner or at
pubs or parties, Neeraj would foot the bill but nothing turns on
the same. He stated that he did not know, therefore he could not
admit or deny that during the said period Neeraj was in touch
with Rambeer Shokeen through Whatsapp. As such, nothing has
come out in the testimony of PW31 to establish that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was harboring or concealing or facilitating the
accused Neeraj. 272. The prosecution had also relied on the testimony of PW15

who had deposed about giving CCTV footage of two ATMs of
HDFC bank in Kolkata of 01.01.2015 having ID number
S1ANCC71 and S1AWSI04 and also handing over the printouts
of screenshots of CCTV footage to the police which he proved as
Ex.PW15/4 to Ex.PW15/12. The Ld. Addl. PP had submitted that
the said witness had shown that the accused Neeraj had used the
debit card of someone to withdraw money from the bank in
Kolkata which money was deposited in Delhi and OTP was
received on the mobile of the relative of Neeraj in Delhi.
However, while the CCTV footage at the most shows the accused
Neeraj using a debit card to withdraw money, it does not show

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.293 of 385
 whose debit card was used, nor does it establish that the money
withdrawn was the same money which was deposited in Delhi.
Nothing material had come out in the cross-examination of the
said witness and even otherwise nothing much turns on the
examination of the said witness as his testimony does not show
the connection of the accused Neeraj to the other accused
persons. 273. PW31 had also deposed that he had taken an apartment on

rent in Kolkata. However, the tenancy did not materialize and
neither him nor anybody on his behalf ever stayed in that
apartment. He had stated that he had decided to take an
apartment on rent as he wanted to shift his family to Kolkata. He
had paid around Rs.15,000/- to Rs.20,000/- as an advance for the
said apartment. During cross-examination by the Ld. Addl. PP for
State, he denied the suggestion that the apartment in Kolkata was
taken on rent on being asked by Neeraj or that the payment of
Rs.21,000/- for the said flat was also made by Neeraj or that he
had stated the said facts to the police in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C and similar facts to the Ld. Magistrate in his
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He was confronted with the
statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C Mark PW31/A and the
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C Ex.PW31/1 but nothing
much turns on the same once before the Court, he had denied that
the apartment was taken on being asked by Neeraj or that the
payment for the flat was made by Neeraj. PW32 had deposed
about receiving a phone call from Jasbir Singh who wanted to
rent a flat in Kolkata and a rent agreement was also executed

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.294 of 385
 between him and the owner of the property but the prosecution
has failed to establish the connection of the said deal with the
accused persons in the present case. Further, during cross-
examination PW74 stated that till the time the investigation
remained with him, he could not gather any CCTV footage to
show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was harboring the other
accused persons of the present case. He did not recall if any
lawfully intercepted call was available to connect accused
Rambeer Shokeen with the other co-accused in this case. As
such, even as per the IO, there was no CCTV footage or
intercepted call which could connect the accused Rambeer
Shokeen with the other accused persons in the case. Further,
PW74 did not recall having come across any verifiable money
trail between the accused Rambeer Shokeen and the other co-
accused persons. During cross-examination PW77 did not
remember if, after perusing the bank transactions, he came across
any transaction between the accused Rambeer Shokeen and any
co-accused in the case. He could not admit or deny the
suggestion that there was no transaction between the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and any co-accused in the case. He did not
find any CCTV footage or any forensic evidence to show that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was harboring the other accused
persons. Thus, both PW74 and PW77 had not found any forensic
evidence to show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was
harboring the other accused persons or which could connect the
accused Rambeer Shokeen to the other accused persons. 274. It is further the case of the prosecution that the accused

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.295 of 385
 Rambeer Shokeen was in possession of properties which he
could not account for. The prosecution had placed on record the
certified copy of Form 26 filed by the accused Rambeer Shokeen
in Delhi Legislative Assembly for AC-08 for the year 2013
containing expenditure/ asset details; certified copy of Form 26
filed by Ms. Rita Shokeen w/o Rambeer Shokeen in Delhi
Legislative Assembly for AC-08 for the year 2015 containing
expenditure/ asset details; Income Tax Return and PAN Card
details of the accused Rambeer Shokeen and his wife Ms. Rita
Shokeen and details of account No.62309088497 of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and of account No.62315772594 of Ms. Rita
Shokeen and of account No.05832010001120 of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and of account No.05832010049800 of Ms.
Rita Shokeen obtained on 02.03.2017. PW74 was extensively
cross-examined in this regard and he stated that he had sent
notices to the concerned Revenue Authorities inquiring about any
ownership of property in the name of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. He stated that no such property on record was reported
by the said authorities. Till the time the investigation remained
with him, no record pertaining to ownership of any property or
asset in the name of accused Rambeer Shokeen had come on
record. He did not remember if he had collected the expenditure
register submitted by accused Rambeer Shokeen in terms of
provisions of Representation of People's Act , after the elections
contested by him in the year 2013 to the Election Commission of
India and volunteered the affidavit of income and assets is on
record and he had asked for the expenditure of election and assets
declared by the accused Rambeer Shokeen from the Chief

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.296 of 385
 Electoral Officer (CEO) vide his notice Ex.PW74/H. He denied
the suggestion that the expenditure register was withheld by him
to implicate the accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present case as
the same would have demolished the entire case set up by the
Investigating agency. He could only say after checking the record
whether any investigation was done regarding the ancestral
properties of the accused Rambeer Shokeen and volunteered he
was not arrested by him in the present case. Thus, PW74 had
stated that till the time the investigation remained with him, no
record pertaining to ownership of any property or asset in the
name of accused Rambeer Shokeen had come on record. 275. PW77 was also likewise cross-examined and he stated that

he did not investigate with regard to the properties and assets
owned by the accused Rambeer Shokeen either from the office of
concerned SDM, Patwari, Sub-Registrar or any other authority
except Bank details and Income Tax Return along with PAN Card
details and volunteered the other IO must have investigated the
same. The only Income Tax Return that was filed by accused
Rambeer Shokeen was in 2005 but neither he nor his wife filed
any Income Tax return thereafter although there were huge
transactions in their account even after 2005. He did not
remember whether he investigated the trail of transactions as
shown in the bank statement which is Ex.C-65 and Ex.C-66
(colly), pages 179 to 217. He denied the suggestion that the trails
of the said transactions were duly investigated by him and since
nothing incriminating was found against Rambeer Shokeen, the
same were not placed on record by him and he was intentionally

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.297 of 385
 giving evasive reply to hide his malafide acts. He denied the
suggestion that merely on account of non-filing of Income Tax
returns, accused Rambeer Shokeen could not have been made an
accused in the present case and at the most, the same could have
been a non-compliance of the provisions of Income Tax Act .
PW77 further stated that he did not investigate qua the ancestral
property owned by the accused Rambeer Shokeen in his native
Village Kamruddin Nagar and volunteered the previous IO must
have done it. Thus, PW77 had not investigated with regard to the
properties and assets owned by the accused Rambeer Shokeen
nor with regard to the ancestral property owned by the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and he did not remember if he had
investigated the trail of transactions as shown in the bank
statement. 276. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had

submitted that as per the prosecution, the accused Rambeer
Shokeen and his wife were allegedly having assets beyond their
financial capacity and they had not filed their ITR between 2006
to 2016 but there was not even a single document in the entire
charge sheet which could even remotely indicate that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was holding any property on behalf of an
organized crime syndicate as was required in terms of the
provisions of MCOC Act . There is clearly merit in the said
contention and from the testimony of PW74 and PW77 it is
evident that no such document has been produced which could
substantiate the allegations levelled against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen in this regard and as submitted by the Ld. Counsel, there

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.298 of 385
 is even no transaction in the bank account statements which
could connect the accused with any other co-accused person. It
was also submitted that the assets mentioned by the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and his wife Rita Shokeen in the affidavits
filed before the Election Commission were duly accounted for
and even the prosecution has failed to show that the assets so
referred to were not accounted for in any manner and it was also
submitted that the same were a result of family arrangements and
a part of ancestral properties barring one or two assets. While the
accused Rambeer Shokeen has also not produced any evidence in
this regard, the prosecution itself has failed to discharge its
burden to prove that the assets were not accounted for and PW74
and PW77 had stated that they had not done any investigation
with regard to the ancestral properties of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. 277. Further, PW74 did not recall having obtained the CDR of

accused Rambeer Shokeen and bringing it on record. Upon
checking of the case file, he stated that the CDR of the mobile
number subscribed in the name of accused Rambeer Shokeen
was not placed on record. He denied the suggestion that CDR of
accused Rambeer Shokeen was requisitioned by him and had
been suppressed and withheld since placing it on record would
have demolished the entire case of the investigating agency as
there was nothing incriminating against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. He also denied the suggestion that confession under Section 18 of MCOC Act was not recorded since the same would
have demolished the entire case set up by him. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.299 of 385 278. It was further put to PW74 that in the final report, a finding

had been recorded by him that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
was found involved in the disposal of robbed police weapons and
what evidence did he find to arrive at the said finding against
Rambeer Shokeen to which he responded that the information
that accused Rambeer Shokeen was involved in the said act came
from the disclosure of accused Neeraj Sehrawat. Since accused
Rambeer Shokeen could not be arrested till the time the
investigation remained with him, he could not get a first-hand
corroboration of the same. He did not recall if the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was made an accused in any FIR pertaining to
the disposal of robbed police weapons. He denied the suggestion
that accused Rambeer Shokeen was not involved in any such act
with respect to robbed police weapons and the entire theory was
concocted and was made only to malign the political image and
rising career of accused Rambeer Shokeen and the same
concocted information was supplied to the media personnel
towards the same end. He did not recall as to who all were
present in the room while recording the disclosure statements of
accused Neeraj Sehrawat and Pankaj Sehrawat and other accused
persons. He denied the suggestion that subsequent repeated
disclosure statements were recorded only to falsely implicate the
accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present case. As per the settled
law, the disclosure of the accused Neeraj would be irrelevant for
pointing towards the guilt of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
regarding disposal of robbed police weapons. Thus, there is
nothing on record to show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
was found involved in disposal of robbed police weapons. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.300 of 385 279. During further cross-examination PW74 denied the
suggestion that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had never
sheltered or harbored any co-accused or any other criminal at any
given point of time or that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
never taken any advantage or gained undue economic advantage
or pecuniary benefit either for himself or any other person
pursuant to the alleged organized crime syndicate or that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had never conspired or advocated or
abetted or facilitated the commission of any organized crime or
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen either himself or on behalf of
any other person at any given point of time had been in
possession of any movable or immovable property which he
could not account for. He denied the suggestion that he being the
complainant of the case was interested in the success of the case
and to reach the desired goal hence, he carried out the
investigation in a biased manner or that he had manipulated the
statements of witnesses and had not recorded the correct version
of witnesses or that he forced the witnesses to depose according
to their wish before the Ld. Magistrate in their statements under Section 164 Cr.P.C. Though PW74 had denied the suggestions
put to him in this regard, it is seen that the prosecution has not
produced any reliable evidence to establish any of the allegations
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen. 280. PW77 also denied the suggestion that false statements

were recorded by him during the investigation of this case to
falsely implicate Rambeer Shokeen. Thus, PW74 and PW77 were
extensively cross-examined on behalf of the accused Rambeer

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.301 of 385
 Shokeen and specifically in respect of the offences for which he
was charged but the prosecution has not brought forth any cogent
material to support the allegations against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. It is also seen that as per the record, the accused
Rambeer Shokeen had been convicted in FIR No.308/2007 PS
Nangloi but it was submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen had been falsely implicated in
different FIRs and that FIR No.308/2007, PS Nangloi had been
registered out of political rivalry and vide order dated 21.01.2011
fine of Rs.100 each was imposed upon the accused and his
family members. Even otherwise, the said case has not been
relied upon to show any connection with any crime syndicate.
The prosecution had relied on FIR No.575/2014 Crime
No.1072/2014 PS Baghpat but the accused Rambeer Shokeen has
already been acquitted in the said case vide judgment dated
13.09.2022. Reference was also made to FIR No.35/2015 PS
Special Cell which was registered after the registration of the
present case but the accused Rambeer Shokeen has already been
discharged in the said case as noted above and PW9 who had
been examined in the present case had testified that no threat
whatsoever was ever given to him by anybody and no alleged
incident ever took place. FIR No.65/2016 PS Special Cell is
pending against the accused Rambeer Shokeen but that does not
show any connection with any other accused person. The Ld.
Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had submitted that
there was another FIR pending against the accused Rambeer
Shokeen in Saket Court but that was stated to be in relation to his
escape from custody. Thus, the prosecution has failed to establish

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.302 of 385
 the connection of the accused Rambeer Shokeen with any crime
syndicate, much less any crime syndicate run by the accused
Neeraj or even to show that he had any connection with the other
accused persons except that it has come on record that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was the maternal uncle of the accused
Neeraj and Pankaj. 281. It was submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused

Rambeer Shokeen that a perusal of the application dated
20.04.2015 filed by the investigating officer during investigation
would make it evident that initially the accused Rambeer
Shokeen was summoned as a witness under Section 160 Cr.P.C.
but the entire charge sheet was silent as to the fact which led the
investigating officer to shift his status from that of a witness to
that of an accused. During cross-examination PW77 stated that
he did not remember if the first notice was issued to accused
Rambeer under Section 160 Cr.P.C. as a witness and volunteered
the other IO might have served a notice. He did not interrogate or
inquire from Rita Shokeen in the present case. While it is true
that a notice under Section 160 Cr.P.C. had been issued to the
accused Rambeer Shokeen initially and not as an accused,
however, it is the prerogative of the IO to array anyone as an
accused against whom material comes on record. It was also
argued that not even a single incriminating evidence had come on
record against the accused Rambeer Shokeen and there is merit
in the said submission of the Ld. Counsel in view of what has
been discussed above and there is also merit in the contention
that there is nothing to show that the accused Rambeer Shokeen

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.303 of 385
 was involved in the alleged harboring of any other accused or
providing assistance to them by any means or even in the
transaction of the property. 282. A perusal of the record further shows that several of the

witnesses who were examined by the prosecution were only
formal witnesses in that PW1 had deposed about issuing an order
for award of Rs.1 lakh for giving information/ clue to trace the
accused Neeraj Bawania who was involved in FIR No.180/2012,
PS Samaypur Badli. She had stated that he was also involved in
16 other cases. During cross-examination PW1 admitted that
there was no reference of order of the Commissioner of Police in
Ex.PW1/A and volunteered the order of the Commissioner of
Police was on the note-sheet which is on record. She stated that
Ex.PW1/A was a formal order of the approval given by the
Commissioner of Police. She could produce the same, if
required. She admitted that the stamp of diary number and the
endorsement in hand made at the bottom in Ex.PW1/A were not
the original order brought by her and volunteered after issuance
of the order, a copy goes to various addressees and diary number
as well as endorsements are made on the same, which are
appearing in the copy Ex.PW1/A. However, the actual order and
the copy Ex.PW1/A are the same. She also stated that she had not
handed over Ex.PW1/A to the IO. She had only issued the formal
order pursuant to the approval of the Commissioner of Police on
the note-sheet. She was not aware of the cases referred to in the
order Ex.PW1/A. She denied the suggestion that the order
Ex.PW1/A was passed in a mechanical manner without any

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.304 of 385
 supporting documents. Thus, nothing material came out in the
testimony of PW1, even otherwise, she had deposed only about
issuing an order for award of Rs.1 lakh for giving information/
clue to trace the accused Neeraj Bawania who was stated to be
involved in FIR No.180/2012, PS Samaypur Badli. 283. PW4 had deposed about taking the accused Gurpreet, who

has since been discharged to CFSL CBI for recording of sample
voice and since the said accused stands discharged, testimony of
this witness is not of much relevance in the present case. PW5
had deposed about giving a flat to Nitin Singh through a broker
whose original name he came to know as Amit Malik @ Bhura.
However, Amit @ Bhura has already been discharged in the
present case. PW20 had proved the FIR in the present case as
well as the endorsement on the rukka. Nothing material came out
in his cross-examination to doubt the registration of FIR which
was registered after taking approval Ex.PW73/A (it may be
mentioned that the Ld. Counsels for the accused persons had
contended that the approval had been given without application
of mind which aspect shall be adverted to later). PW30 had
deposed about collecting exhibits of the case from Malkhana and
depositing them in FSL. PW39 had provided recharge details of
various mobile numbers. In this regard the prosecution had also
relied on recharge and bill payment details as per replies dated
28.11.2015, 16.11.2015, 16.11.2015, 16.09.2015, 07.12.2015 but
nothing much turns on the same. PW51 had deposed about
arresting the accused Amit Malik @ Bhura and recovery of SIM
card at the instance of the accused Gurpreet Singh. He had also

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.305 of 385
 filed charge sheet in FIR No.839/2015 PS Rajouri Garden in
respect of Amit Malik @ Bhura and Naveen Huda @ Bhanja.
However, the said accused persons have already been discharged
in the present case. Besides that, he had stated about execution of
proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C. against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen on 03.06.2015 i.e. when the accused Rambeer
Shokeen was declared a proclaimed offender during the
pendency of investigation in the present case. 284. PW62 had deposed about arresting the accused Neeraj

Bawana and Rashid in FIR No.30/2015 PS Special Cell and
stated that in the said case SI Sohan Lal had recovered one AK-
47 and SLR which were recovered at the instance of Neeraj
Bawania from near Vijay Colony Mundka on 09.04.2015. He had
also filed the charge sheet in FIR No.30/2015 PS Special Cell in
which accused Neeraj was sentenced to 7 years imprisonment
after trial. However, during cross-examination he had stated that
there was no other accused apart from Neeraj and Rashid in FIR
No.30/2015 and the accused Rambeer Shokeen had no relation
with the said FIR. PW75 had proved the record of FIR
No.30/2015 PS Special Cell. However, there is nothing on record
to show that the accused Rashid was a member of the crime
syndicate allegedly run by the accused Neeraj Bawana. 285. PW64 had deposed about the arrest of the accused persons. During cross-examination he had denied the suggestion that the
accused persons had not made the disclosure statements and
nothing material had come out in his cross-examination. PW66
had deposed about being asked by the IO to obtain specimen

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.306 of 385
 signatures of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat after taking
permission from the Court and he had taken the specimen
handwriting of the accused Neeraj Sehrawat on 10 sheets and
further obtained his specimen handwriting on 15 sheets. PW67
had stated about according sanction in respect of the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and his testimony would be referred to later.
PW68 had deposed about arresting the accused Pankaj Sehrawat
in the present case and accused Naveen @ Bali and Rahul @
Kala. PW70 had also stated about the arrest of accused Pankaj
Sehrawat under Section 41.1 Cr.P.C . and thereafter the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat was handed over to Special Cell. Nothing
material had come out during his cross-examination. 286. PW72 was the MHCM and he had deposed about deposit

of various articles in the Malkhana. PW73 had deposed about
grant of approval and sanction and his testimony would be
referred to later. PW76 had proved the record in respect of FIR
No.7/2015 PS Special Cell. PW77 was also an IO of the present
case and he had deposed about collecting attested copies of
documents pertaining to various FIRs and other documents and
obtaining sanction under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act against the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. 287. The prosecution has referred to several other FIRs which

allegedly show the involvement of the accused Neeraj and
Naveen @ Bali in different crimes but none of the said FIRs
point to any connection between the accused persons or their
linkage to an organized crime syndicate. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.307 of 385 288. From what has been discussed above, the following points

emerge: 289. It was contended on behalf of the accused persons that the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.309 of 385
 prosecution had miserably failed to prove the ingredients of Section 3 MCOC Act in the present case while the Ld. Addl. PP
for State had submitted that there existed more than one charge
sheet against the accused persons on which cognizance had been
taken, hence MCOC Act was applicable in the present case and
the accused persons were liable to be convicted. At the outset, it
was the contention of the accused persons that it must be shown
by the prosecution that there was more than one charge sheet
filed against each of the accused on which cognizance was taken
to attract the provisions of MCOC Act . However, in the case of
Leena Paulose v. State of Delhi Bail Appln.4262/2021 decided
on 11.07.2023, it was observed by the Hon'ble High Court as
under: 37. A person may be a part of the module
 which jointly undertakes an organized crime
 or he may singly as a member of the organized
 crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate
 undertake an organized crime. In both the
 situations, the MCOCA can be applied. It is
 the membership of organized crime syndicate
 which makes a person liable under the
 MCOCA. This is evident from section 3(4) of
 the MCOCA which states that any person who
 is a member of an organized crime syndicate
 shall be punished with imprisonment for a
 term which shall not be less than five years but
 which may extend to imprisonment for life and
 shall also be liable to fine, subject to a
 minimum of fine of Rs. 5 lakhs. The charge
 under the MCOCA ropes in a person who as a
 member of the organized crime syndicate
 commits organized crime i.e. acts of extortion
 by giving threats, etc. to gain economic
 advantage or supremacy, as a member of the
 crime syndicate singly or jointly. Charge is in
 respect of unlawful activities of the organized
 crime syndicate. 38. In order to substantiate our construction of Section 2(1)(d) of the MCOCA, we will take
 hypothetical example of accused 1(A), accused
 2(B), accused 3(C) and accused 4(D), who are
 members of the organized crime syndicate and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.313 of 385
 who have committed crimes within preceding
 ten years. Insofar as accused A is concerned,
 it is alleged that he has committed an offence
 resulting in the death of any person which is
 punishable with death or imprisonment for life
 as described in Section 3(1) of the MCOCA. Accordingly, one charge-sheet is filed against
 him. Insofar as accused B is concerned, it is
 alleged that he has committed an offence
 resulting in the death of any person which is
 punishable with death or imprisonment for life
 as described in Section 3(2) of the MCOCA. Accordingly, one charge-sheet is filed against
 him. Likewise, insofar as accused C is
 concerned, it is alleged that he has committed
 an offence resulting in the death of any person
 which is punishable with death or
 imprisonment for life as described in Section
 3(3) of the MCOCA. Accordingly, one charge- sheet is filed against him. Finally, it is alleged
 that accused D is a member of organized
 crime syndicate as described in Section 3(4) of
 the MCOCA and as such has indulged in
 organized crime and against whom also one
 charge-sheet is filed. 39. The submission on behalf of the appellant
 is that even though all the four accused
 namely, A, B, C and D may be members of the
 organized crime syndicate since against each
 of the accused not more than one chargesheet
 is filed, it cannot be held that they are engaged
 in continuing unlawful activity as
 contemplated under Section 2(1)(d) of the
 MCOCA. Apart from the reasons which we
 have given hereinabove as to why such a
 construction is not possible, having regard to
 the object with which the MCOCA was
 enacted, namely to make special provisions for
 prevention and control of organized crime
 syndicate and for coping with criminal activity
 by organized crime syndicate, in our opinion, Section 2(1)(d) cannot be so construed. Such a
 construction will defeat the object of the
 MCOCA. What is contemplated under Section
 2(1)(d) of the MCOCA is that activities
 prohibited by law for the time being in force
 which are punishable as described therein
 have been undertaken either singly or jointly

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.314 of 385
 as a member of organized crime syndicate and
 in respect of which more than one charge- sheets have been filed. Stress is on the
 unlawful activities committed by the organized
 crime syndicate. Requirement of one or more
 charge-sheet is qua the unlawful activities of
 the organized crime syndicate." (Emphasis supplied) 44. In Mujahid S/o Ibrahim v. The State of
 Maharashtra ; (2014) SCC Online Bom 4048, it has
 inter-alia been held as under: 45. Thus, from the discussion made herein above, it
 is no longer res integra that it is not necessary that
 such charge-sheet should be against an individual.
 If the charge sheet is filed against the syndicate that
 would be sufficient compliance of Section 2 (1) (d) of MCOCA. 46. It is also a settled proposition that it is not
 necessary that each member of the syndicate should
 have a similar role. The individual members can
 have different roles in the commission of the crime. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.316 of 385
 The petitioners herein have argued that there are no
 allegations which would link them to the
 foundational allegation of extortion and therefore
 there is no prima facie case to invoke the provisions
 of the MCOCA as against them. This court
 considers that there is no merit in the said
 contention. The allegations as being made by the
 investigating agency is that these accused persons
 were in fact channelizing the ill- gotten money
 received through foundational crime of extortion.
 Their role is in fact facilitating the continuing
 commission of the crime by or on behalf of the
 syndicate. The provisions of MCOCA can be
 attributed to an individual if his role amounts to any
 assistance to organized crime or organized crime
 syndicate or to a person involved in either of them. 47. It is settled proposition that mere
 membership/nexus with the organized crime
 syndicate is sufficient to prosecute under MCOCA. In Sachin Bansilal Ghaiwal v. State of Maharashtra ;
 (2014) SCC OnLine Bom 725, "38. Thus, according
 to us and in our humble opinion and our earnest
 consideration, the expression 'member 'as has been
 termed in Section 2(1)(d) of the MCOC Act can be
 interpreted and defined as, a person who
 participates in the crime either actively or passively
 or a person who facilitates the commission of the
 crime committed by the organized crime syndicate
 or on behalf of the organized crime syndicate,
 automatically becomes the member of the said crime
 syndicate which commits the offence or on whose
 behalf the offence in question is committed, as
 contemplated under Sec. (2)(1)(d), 2(1)(e), Section 3 and other provisions of the MCOCA." 48. Therefore, I consider that the arguments of the
 learned defence counsel that in absence of more
 than one charge-sheet having been filed against
 Petitioners B. Mohanraj and Kamlesh Kothari the
 MCOCA could not have been attributed against
 them is liable to be rejected." The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Zakir Abdul Mirajkar v. The
State of Maharashtra & Ors. 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 707 had held
that persons who were alleged to be members of an organized

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.317 of 385
 crime syndicate need not have more than one charge sheet filed
against them in an individual capacity; rather, charge sheets with
respect to the organized crime syndicate are sufficient to fulfil the
condition in Section 2(1)(d) MCOC Act. Thus, it has been
categorically laid down that the requirement of one or more
charge sheets is in relation to the unlawful activity of the
organized crime syndicate and not of each and every member of
such syndicate and as such, there is no merit in this contention
raised on behalf of the accused persons. 290. It is then the case of the accused persons that the

prosecution had failed to establish continuing unlawful activity
which was the sine qua non for applicability of the provisions of MCOC Act and in fact even the approval for registration of FIR
and the sanction that were accorded in the present case were not
proper and the entire proceedings stood vitiated and further that
the sanction had been accorded only for the offence under Section 3(4) MCOC Act. It would be material to refer to Section
23 of MCOC Act which reads as under: Thus, for recording of information about an offence or the
registration of even the FIR, there has to be prior approval of the
police officer not below the rank of the Deputy Inspector General
of Police and further for taking cognizance of any offence under
the Act by the Special Court, there has to be previous sanction of
the police officer not below the rank of Additional Director
General of Police. 291. The Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had submitted at

length, that the law on the point of reading and understanding a
statutory provision which contains a non-obstante clause as well
as the provision which is clothed with negative words is well
settled. A non-obstante clause is a legislative device which is
usually employed to give overriding effect to certain provisions
over some contrary provisions, that may be found either in the
same enactment or some other enactment. Reference in this
regard was made to the judgment in Union of India and Anr. v.
G.M. Kokil and Ors. (supra); Maru Ram v. Union of India
and Ors. ( supra) and A.G. Varadarajulu and Anr. v. State of
T.N. and Ors. (supra). It was highlighted that it was well settled
that the mode of showing a clear intention of the legislature that
the provision enacted was a mandatory one was by clothing the
command in a negative form and that negative words are
ordinarily used as a legislative device to make a statute
imperative and reliance in this regard was placed on the
judgments in Mannalal Khetan v. Kedar Nath Khetan and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.319 of 385
 Ors. (supra) and in M. Pentiah and Ors. v. Muddala
Veeramallappa and Ors. (supra). It was submitted that it was
also the well-settled principle of law that when the law requires a
thing to be done in a particular manner, it should be done in that
manner and not in any other manner, and the said principle would
have to be followed more strictly when an action is accompanied
by serious consequences. It was asservated that Section 23 of the
MCOC Act which opens with a non-obstante clause and is
further clothed with negative words clearly discloses the mandate
of the legislature that the cognizance of the offences under the MCOC Act should not be in a routine course, but only upon the
facts disclosing the applicability thereof and satisfaction of the
officer of a high rank, the minimum being of the rank of Deputy
Inspector General of Police in that regard. In fact, the officer of
such a high rank was required to decide about the approval even
for the recording of FIR in relation to any offence under the MCOC Act . There is clearly merit in the said submissions made
by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons and a perusal of Section 23 MCOC Act shows that it not only begins with a non-
obstante clause but is also clothed in negative words. The
significance of Section 23 of MCOC Act was also highlighted by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Jamiruddin Ansari v. Central
Bureau of Investigation and Anr. SLP (Crl .) No.5677 of 2007
dated 06.05.2009 wherein, though in the context of a private
complaint, it was held that "the provisions of Section 23 are the
safeguards provided against the invocation of the provisions of
the Act which are extremely stringent and far removed from the
provisions of the general criminal law." State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.320 of 385 292. The Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had, in this

regard placed reliance on the judgment in Ashraf Khan v. State
of Gujarat (supra) wherein it was observed as under: Thus, the provisions of Section 23 of MCOC Act have to be
construed as mandatory in nature and all the requirements laid
down by the said section have to be fulfilled. Reliance was also
placed on the judgment in Ismail Sheikh v. State of
Maharashtra (supra) wherein it was observed as under: Thus, it was laid down that the power to grant approval for
recording FIR should be exercised on application of mind to the
facts of the case and with necessary prudence and
circumspection. 293. In the instant case, PW73 had given both the approval and

sanction (while PW67 had also given sanction in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen) and deposed that during his posting
as Special Commissioner Special Cell in Delhi Police, on
16.02.2015, he received a proposal from Shri Manishi Chandra,
the then ACP, Special Cell, for approval under Section 23 (1) of
MCOC Act, to register a case under Sections of MCOC Act against Neeraj Bawania and the seven other criminal syndicate
members namely Naveen, Rahul, Pankaj, Amit Malik, Sunil
Rathi, Naveen Bhanja and Rambeer Shokeen. On 20.02.2015, he
accorded approval for registration and investigation of case under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act against seven accused persons
vide Ex.PW73/A. On 29.08.2015, he received a request of the
IO, Additional DCP Manishi Chandra, to grant sanction under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act against 10 accused persons namely
Neeraj Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas, Rahul Dabas, Pankaj, Amit
Malik, Sunil Rathi, Naveen Hooda, Gurpreet Singh, Deepak
Dabas and Rambeer Shokeen for offences under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act. After satisfying himself, he accorded sanction

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.323 of 385
 against the said 10 accused persons for offences punishable under Section 3 (4) of MCOC Act vide sanction order dated 09.09.2015
Ex.PW73/B. PW74 had also deposed that he had prepared a
proposal for registration of the case under MCOC Act which was
forwarded through proper channel for seeking approval of the
competent authority as defined under Section 23 (1) (a) of the
Act which is Ex.PW74/A and the competent authority i.e. the
then Special Commissioner of Police, Special Cell had granted
approval for the registration of the FIR Ex.PW73/A and
consequent to this, the present FIR was registered at PS Special
Cell on the basis of his complaint dated 23.02.2015 which is
Ex.PW20/2. He had also stated that after receipt of the sanction
the main police report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. and two
subsequent supplementary police reports under Section 173 (8) Cr.P.C. were submitted by him. In the instant case, there is no
dispute as to the rank of the officer who granted approval and
sanction and conducted investigation, rather it is the case that the
approval and sanction were granted without application of mind
and on behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen, it is the further
argument that his name did not figure in the approval or even the
FIR. 294. As regards the contention that the name of the accused

Rambeer Shokeen did not figure in the approval or even the FIR,
PW73 was cross-examined at length by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and he stated that he did not have
copy of approval dated 20.02.2015. He admitted that no approval
vide the approval dated 20.02.2015 was accorded in respect of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.324 of 385
 the accused Rambeer Shokeen and volunteered the name of
Rambeer Shokeen was there in the proposal which was put up
before him; after going through the material, he found that there
was insufficient material evidence against Rambeer Shokeen and
he directed registration of case with further direction that during
the investigation of the case if material evidence was found
against him, sanction under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act may be
sought before filing the charge sheet. He admitted that no such
direction was contained in the approval dated 20.02.2015 or any
other document on the case file and volunteered the said
direction was recorded in the note-sheet of the file through which
approval was sought. Thus, PW73 had stated that he found that
there was insufficient material evidence against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and he did not grant specific approval qua
him. PW73 had volunteered that he had directed registration of
the case with further direction that during the investigation of the
case if material evidence was found against him, sanction under Section 23 (2) of MCOC Act may be sought before filing the
charge sheet but admittedly no such direction was contained in
the approval dated 20.02.2015 or any other document on the case
file and the note-sheet of the file through which approval was
sought was not produced though it is on record that sanction was
sought separately as well qua the accused Rambeer Shokeen
before filing the charge sheet. 295. PW73 had stated that there was no separate approval for

registration accorded with respect to Rambeer Shokeen prior to
sanction dated 09.09.2015 and volunteered after investigation of

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.325 of 385
 the case and on the request of the IO, sanction was accorded in
respect of few more accused. During cross-examination PW74
also admitted that there was not even a whisper of the name of
Rambeer Shokeen in the present FIR. He admitted that there was
no approval under Section 23 of MCOC Act against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen and volunteered when the FIR was registered.
Even PW73 had stated about not granting approval qua the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. Further, PW74 stated that he could
say only after checking the record if there was any FIR in which
Rambeer Shokeen was a co-accused with accused Neeraj
Sehrawat, Pankaj Sehrawat, Rahul Dabas, Naveen Dabas till the
registration of the present FIR. After going through the record, he
stated that there was no previous common criminal involvement
of accused Rambeer Shokeen with the other named accused
persons prior to registration of the present FIR. He denied the
suggestion that till the registration of the present FIR there was
no evidence against the accused Rambeer Shokeen to connect
him to the offence under MCOC Act . He admitted that there was
no document on record to show or connect the accused Rambeer
Shokeen with the offences under MCOC Act till the registration
of the present FIR. He denied the suggestion that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated in FIR No.35/2015 and
FIR No.65/2016 both registered at PS Special Cell and FIR
No.1072/2014 PS Baghpat by the concerned police officials only
to improve the present case and to tarnish the political image and
hamper the political career of accused Rambeer Shokeen. 296. PW74 did not recall the exact date when he had got to

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.326 of 385
 know about FIR No.1072/2014 of PS Baghpat. He stated that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was not named as an accused in FIR
No.1072/2014 of PS Baghpat when it was registered. He stated
that he came to know regarding involvement of accused Rambeer
Shokeen in the Baghpat case when accused Neeraj Sehrawat was
initially arrested in case FIR No.30/2015 PS Special Cell since he
was the supervisory officer of the IO who had arrested accused
Neeraj Sehrawat in that particular case. He denied the suggestion
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated in FIR
No.1072/14 PS Baghpat to connect him to the present case at his
behest. He stated that he was aware of the role of accused
Rambeer Shokeen in the episode involving escape of Amit @
Bhura from the custody of Baghpat police which was the subject
matter of the FIR at Baghpat. He stated that the accused Rambeer
Shokeen was the facilitator of the crime and had also facilitated
the disposal of the police weapons looted during the escape. He
denied the suggestion that neither Rambeer Shokeen was the
facilitator in the alleged offence at Baghpat nor he was involved
in the disposal of any police weapon. He could not admit or deny
the suggestion that this was not even the case of the prosecution
in the FIR at Baghpat. He was not aware whether the accused
Rambeer Shokeen had already been acquitted in the FIR at
Baghpat vide judgment dated 13.09.2022. He denied the
suggestion that the proceedings qua FIR No.1072/14 PS Baghpat
did not have any bearing in the present case since the provisions
of MCOC Act are not applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh and
the same could not have been considered in the present case. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.327 of 385 297. PW77 was also cross-examined by the Ld. Counsel for

accused Rambeer Shokeen in this regard and he stated that he did
not remember if during the course of investigation he found any
evidence which connected the accused Rambeer Shokeen with
the other accused persons. He did not remember the exact date on
which the role of the accused Rambeer Shokeen in FIR
No.1072/2014 of PS Bagpat was revealed. He collected the
documents of FIR No.1072/2014 as when he perused the case
file, it revealed the role of accused Rambeer Shokeen and other
gang members in the present case. He did not remember exactly
which documents revealed the role of the accused Rambeer
Shokeen. He denied the suggestion that the accused Rambeer
Shokeen was falsely implicated in the present case at the behest
of the senior police officials to tarnish the political image of the
accused Rambeer and hamper his political career. He denied the
suggestion that the proceedings with respect to FIR
No.1072/2014 PS Baghpat had no bearing with respect to the
present case since the provisions of MCOC Act are not
applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh and the same could not
have been considered to implicate the accused Rambeer Shokeen
in the present case. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer
Shokeen had submited that besides the fact that no notice was
received by the accused Rambeer Shokeen in the FIR at Baghpat
till the registration of the present case and that his name came up
in the said case only when the charge sheet was filed in the said
case after the registration of the present FIR, the said FIR could
not be considered in the present case being of a State to which MCOC Act did not extend as per the settled law. However, the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.328 of 385
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Brijesh
Singh @ Arun Kumar and Anr. Criminal Appeal No.1750 of
2017 decided on 09.10.2017 negatived the contention raised
therein that the charge sheets filed in the State of Uttar Pradesh
could not be taken into account by the Special Court in Delhi
observing as under: Thus, it stands settled that even the charge sheets filed outside the
territories to which MCOC Act extends can be taken into
consideration for the purpose of applicability of MCOC Act ,
though an activity of organized crime in Delhi is a sine qua non
for registration of a crime under MCOC Act and merely on the
basis of charge sheets filed outside Delhi, an accused cannot be
be prosecuted in Delhi in the absence of an organized crime
being committed in Delhi. 298. During further cross-examination PW74 stated that when

the proposal seeking approval under Section 23 of MCOC Act
was prepared by him, he was working as ACP, Special Cell and
as such he had supervised several cases and operations during the
course of which he had learnt about the involvement of accused
Rambeer Shokeen with the criminal syndicate of accused Neeraj
Sehrawat. However, there was no primary evidence available at
that point of time with him which could be reduced or
reproduced in the proposal seeking approval as mentioned. He
denied the suggestion that no such operations were carried out by
him which surfaced the involvement of accused Rambeer
Shokeen with the alleged criminal syndicate or that accused
Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated by him being the
Supervisor of Special Cell at the behest of his political masters. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.331 of 385
 He admitted that in the proposal dated 14.02.2015 there was no
mention of any FIR then existing against accused Rambeer
Shokeen and that in all the 14 FIRs referred to in the proposal,
accused Rambeer Shokeen was not mentioned as an accused or
as an associate of the other accused persons. As such, even
PW74 had stated that there was no primary evidence with him
qua the accused Rambeer Shokeen at the time the proposal for
approval was put up and the accused Rambeer Shokeen was not
mentioned as an accused or as an associate of the other accused
persons in the 14 FIRs referred to in the proposal. 299. During further cross-examination PW73 admitted that in

the approval order dated 20.02.2015 there was no mention of
Proprietors of Nursing home, shops, small scale industries,
property dealers and the other business men spread over Delhi
who were threatened by Neeraj Bawana or his associates or the
details of accumulated huge amount of money by extorting
people by use of violence or threat or intimidation and
volunteered the proposal contained the list of involvement of the
accused persons which contained the said information which he
did not recall due to passage of time, the said information was
contained in the case file of the case. This is also as per the
record and it cannot be gainsaid that every small particular
should have been mentioned in the approval which was granted.
A question was put to PW73 that he had no knowledge of the
exact role of the accused persons at the time of approval and as
such the same did not find mention in the approval dated
20.02.2015 to which he responded that he had the proposal for

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.332 of 385
 seeking approval which listed out the accused persons who singly
and jointly carried out continued unlawful activity in a general
sense which was required to be investigated after the registration
of the case. At that point of time, he did not recall the roles of
each accused person due to lapse of time. He admitted that no
specific role of the accused persons was mentioned in the
approval order dated 20.02.2015. It is pertinent that even from
the language of Section 23(1) of MCOC Act, the approval is
needed for recording information about the commission of an
offence of organized crime and there is no requirement that the
role of each accused person has to be specifically spelt out
therein. Further, there is legally no bar for proceeding against a
person if evidence is found against the person whose name was
not there in the approval and thereafter sanction can be obtained
qua the said person. It has been held in Pradip Madgaonkar @
Bandya Mama v. State of Maharashtra 2006 All MR (Cri)
3496 that approval under Section 23(1) of the MCOC Act is not a
pre-condition for grant of sanction under Section 23(2) of the Act
to prosecute a newly added accused. It is the settled law that
approval for recording information under Section 23 MCOC Act
would not restrict the scope of investigation and would not
exclude filing of charge sheet in respect of incidents or
involvement of persons disclosed during the course of
investigation. 300. The issue also came up before the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Vinod G. Asrani v. State of Maharashtra (2007) 3 SCC 633
wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: fast rule that the first information report must
 always contain the names of all persons who were
 involved in the commission of an offence. Very often
 the names of the culprits are not even mentioned in
 the FIR and they surface only at the stage of the
 investigation. The scheme under Section 23 of
 MCOCA is similar and Section 23(1)(a) provides a
 safeguard that no investigation into an offence
 under MCOCA should be commenced without the
 approval of the authorities concerned. Once such
 approval is obtained, an investigation is
 commenced. Those who are subsequently found to
 be involved in the commission of the organized
 crime can very well be proceeded against once
 sanction is obtained against them under Section
 23(2) of MCOCA. 10. As to whether any offence has at all been made
 out against the petitioner for prosecution under
 MCOCA, the High Court has rightly pointed out
 that the accused will have sufficient opportunity to
 contest the same before the Special Court." Further, in Kavita Lankesh v. State of Karnataka & Ors. (2021) SCC OnLine 956, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in context
of similar provisions of Karnataka Control of Organized Crime
Act, 2000 observed as under: Thus, it was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that at the stage
of granting approval, the competent authority has to focus
essentially on the factum whether the information/ material
reveals the commission of a crime which is an organized crime
committed by the organized crime syndicate and that prior
approval is qua the offence and not the offender. The same view
was endorsed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a recent decision
in Abhishek v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Criminal Appeal
No.869 of 2022 decided on 20.05.2022. Further in Zakir Abdul

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.335 of 385 Mirajkar v. The State of Maharashtra and Ors. (supra), the
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: The Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had relied on the
judgment in John D'Souza v. Assistant Commissioner of
Police, B-1/Special, DCB, CID and Ors. (supra) to contend
that if there is no valid sanction, the Special Court gets no
jurisdiction to try a case against any person mentioned in the
report as the Court is forbidden from taking cognizance of the
offence without such sanction. While the said proposition of law
is well-established, the observations of the Hon'ble High Court of
Bombay in this case regarding 'approval' are also pertinent and it
was observed as under: The sanction is not granted to the Special Court to
 take cognizance of the offence, but it is granted to
 the prosecuting agency to approach the court
 concerned for enabling it to take cognizance of the
 offence and to proceed to trial. Thus a valid
 sanction is sine-qua-non for enabling the
 prosecuting agency to approach the Court in order
 to enable the court to take recognizance of the
 offence under MCOCA as disclosed in the report.
 The corollary is that, if there is no valid sanction the
 Special Court gets no jurisdiction to try a case
 against any person mentioned in the report as the
 Court is forbidden from taking cognizance of the
 offence without such sanction. It is thus clear that
 every act in this section depends upon the other and
 even if one act is not performed, as provided for in
 this section, the court would not have jurisdiction to
 take cognizance, and any proceeding adopted
 thereunder would also be without jurisdiction and
 would vitiate the trial. We have to, therefore, see in
 the present case, whether all the three acts have
 been performed in the manner aforestated and the
 sanction is valid or not. xxx 13. ... In other words, the non obstante clause in Section 23 , in our opinion, does not put any
 impediment in assigning the meaning to the words
 and expressions in Section 23 and which have not
 been defined in MCOCA, as assigned in the Code.
 The non-obstante clause, as observed by the
 Division Bench in Altaf Ismail Shaik v. State of
 Maharashtra in MANU/MH/0173/2005 clearly
 discloses the mandate of the legislature that the
 cognizance of the offences under the MCOCA
 should not be in routine course, but only upon the
 facts disclosing the applicability thereof and
 satisfaction of the officer of the high rank. In short,
 the non-obstante clause employed in Section 23 of
 MCOCA overrides the procedure contemplated
 under the provisions of the Code in respect of
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.337 of 385
 recording of FIR, investigation, submitting a report
 under Section 173 etc, however, it does not put any
 impediment in assigning the meaning to the word
 "information" as assigned under Section 154 of the
 Code. xxx 24. A conjoint reading of all the three definitions
 clearly demonstrate that seeking prior approval of
 the competent police officer for recording
 information about the commission of an offence of
 "organized crime" under MCOCA is a condition
 precedent and it is mandatory in nature. It does not
 provide for the prior approval in relation to any
 single act of crime constituting an offence but the
 approval is in relation to "organized crime and
 continuing unlawful activity of organized crime
 syndicate". Merely because a police officer
 approaching the competent police officer seeking
 prior approval under Section 23(1)(a) making
 reference to a particular crime does not mean that
 the prior approval pertains to only that crime. In
 our opinion, an act of making reference to only one
 crime is with a view to seek the approval for
 registering the commission of an offence of
 "organized crime" by a particular organized crime
 syndicate and in respect of continuing unlawful
 activity under MCOCA and to set the criminal law
 in motion and marks the commencement of
 investigation. In the course of investigation if the
 investigating officer comes across any other offence
 of similar nature or which, in the opinion of the
 investigating officer, also constitutes an offence of
 "organized crime" under MCOCA and if it is
 committed by the very same organized crime
 syndicate, we find no reason as to why he cannot
 make it a part of the same offence of "organized
 crime" to which the prior approval has been
 granted. We do not find any provision in MCOCA
 which prohibits or put any fetter on the powers of
 the investigating officer from doing so. No separate
 approval under Section 23(1)(a) to every such
 offence is necessary. The investigating officer under Section 23(1)(a) , in our opinion, has every right to
 investigate an offence of organized crime of the
 organized crime syndicate and not only an offence
 in relation to which the prior approval has been
 granted. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.338 of 385
 In other words, once having granted the approval
 the investigating officer after recording/registering
 an offence under MCOCA has every right, in the
 course of investigation, to club any other offence
 committed by the same organized crime syndicate
 disclosing the offence of organized crime under
 MCOCA. With every new offence of organized
 crime, being disclosed after the approval is
 accorded in connection with a particular crime,
 there need not be a fresh procedure for a police
 officer to follow starting with fresh approval in
 relation thereof. In our opinion, once the approval is
 granted, until the stage of seeking sanction reaches,
 there is no prohibition or fetter on the powers of
 such investigating officer to club other offence/s
 committed by the very same organized crime
 syndicate and which, in the opinion of the
 investigating agency, is a part of organized crime,
 namely, continuing unlawful activity of the very
 same organized crime syndicate. 25. In short, on receipt of an "information" about
 the commission of an offence of organized crime
 under MCOCA or having realised in the course of
 investigation of the offence registered under
 ordinary law, that the provisions of MCOCA are
 attracted a police officer can seek approval under Section 23(1)(a) of the police officer not below the
 rank of the Deputy Inspector General of Police.
 Then the competent police officer under Section
 23(1)(b) has to investigate not merely the
 offence/crime registered for which the approval has
 been sought but also other offences/crimes found to
 have been committed in the course of investigation
 by the same "organized crime syndicate" as a part of
 their "continuing unlawful activity". Such offence/s
 could be clubbed and treated as one single offence
 of "organized crime" under MCOCA. No separate
 approval under Section 23(1)(a) is necessary in such
 a situation to either club or investigate such offences
 and try them as one single offence under MCOCA
 after seeking sanction under Section 23(2) . The last
 filter, that is, according a sanction under Section
 23(2) is sufficient enough to take care of any wrong
 or illegality committed by the investigating officer in
 the course of investigation." The law is thus well settled that the approval under Section 23(1) State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.339 of 385 (a) MCOC Act need not name every accused person at the outset
and the approval is with respect to the offence and not with
respect to the offender. In fact, it has been held that even the
offences/ crimes found to have been committed in the course of
investigation by the same "organized crime syndicate" as a part
of their continuing unlawful activity are to be investigated by the
competent police officer and not just the offence committed prior
to grant of approval. As such, this contention of the Ld. Counsel
for the accused Rambeer Shokeen does not hold any water and
the investigating agency was within its rights to have proceeded
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen even if no approval was
there in his respect or his name was not there in the FIR, if any
material attracting the provisions of MCOC Act was found
against him. 301. PW73 was then cross-examined regarding sanction in

respect of the accused Rambeer Shokeen and he did not recall the
evidences due to lapse of time, which were put up before him
after 20.02.2015 and prior to 09.09.2015 which prompted him to
grant sanction against Rambeer Shokeen and volunteered the IO
would be in the best position to answer the question. He denied
the suggestion that no new evidences were put up before him
after 20.02.2015 and before 09.09.2015 or that the sanction order
accorded by him was without due application of mind and merely
at the oral request of the IO and at the behest of the other police
officials in order to falsely implicate the accused Rambeer
Shokeen in the present case. PW73 stated that as far as he
recalled accused Rambeer Shokeen was not in custody on the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.340 of 385
 date sanction was accorded i.e. 09.09.2015. He denied the
suggestion that he did not have the power to accord sanction
against Rambeer Shokeen since he was not even arrested in the
present case till 09.09.2015 or that the sanction accorded by him
was not as per law and volunteered it was a question of law. It
may be mentioned that Section 23(2) MCOC Act speaks of there
being previous sanction for taking cognizance of an offence and
not of the offender. Further, it is there on record that a separate
sanction was also obtained qua the accused Rambeer Shokeen
about which PW67 had deposed. 302. PW73 further stated that in the proposal which was made

seeking approval for registration of the case there was no
criminal case mentioned against Rambeer Shokeen. However, at
the time of sanction, other material evidence was brought on
record on the basis of which sanction was accorded. He did not
recall the material evidence at this point due to passage of time.
He did not recall if there was any FIR at the time of grant of
sanction in which the accused Rambeer Shokeen was an accused
along with Neeraj Sehrawat, Pankaj Sehrawat, Naveen and Rahul
and volunteered it was not necessary. He denied the suggestion
that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated in
fresh FIRs after 20.02.2015 with the other co-accused persons to
falsely implicate the accused Rambeer Shokeen in the present
case. 303. PW67 had deposed that on 19.01.2017 he received a case

file for prosecution sanction under Section 23 (2) MCOC Act,
along with the request of DCP Special Cell and after satisfying

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.341 of 385
 himself, he accorded sanction on 10.02.2017 against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen for offence under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act
1999 vide sanction order Ex.PW67/A. During cross-examination
by the Ld. Counsel for accused Rambeer Shokeen PW67 stated
that the words 'sufficient evidence' mentioned in para 3 of the
sanction order Ex.PW67/A which justified the application of Section 3(4) of MCOC Act included the statements of witnesses
and documents placed on the file. He had gone through the
request for sanction moved by the IO through DCP, Special Cell
before granting sanction. The request letter was not part of the
record and volunteered it was not required and was part of Staff
Officer Branch of the Office of Joint CP, Special Cell. Thus,
PW67 had stated about going through the statements of witnesses
and also the documents before granting the sanction. He was
shown the proposal for approval under Section 23 (1) (a) of the
MCOC Act dated 14.02.2015 and he stated that the same was not
before him and volunteered that the same pertained to other
accused persons and was not against Rambeer Shokeen. He was
shown approval under Section 23 (1) (a) of the MCOC Act dated
20.02.2015 and he stated that the same was not before him and
volunteered the same pertained to other accused persons and was
not against Rambeer Shokeen. Thus, the proposal for approval
and approval dated 20.02.2015 were not put up before PW67 but
nothing much turns on the same in light of the settled position
that the matter can be proceeded against those accused whose
name is not there in the approval or even in the FIR. 304. PW67 further stated that no proposal for approval under

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.342 of 385 Section 23 (1) (a) of the MCOC Act qua Rambeer Shokeen was
put up before him but again nothing much turns on the same as
the FIR was already registered and approval is needed only for
recording of information about the commission of an offence and
it is not the case that any fresh FIR under MCOC Act was
registered against the accused Rambeer Shokeen. PW67 stated
that he did not personally verify the veracity of the statements
and accusations against accused Rambeer Shokeen but there is no
requirement for the same. He admitted that the sanction was
accorded by him after duly going through the case file and
records and after applying his mind and after being fully satisfied
and convinced only under Section 3 (4) of the MCOC Act and
not under any other provision of the MCOC Act . He admitted
that there was no mention of Rambeer Shokeen in para 1 of the
sanction Ex.PW67/A. Thus, PW67 stated that the sanction was
accorded only under Section 3(4) of the MCOC Act against the
accused Rambeer Shokeen and even PW73 had stated about
sanction being accorded only under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act.
During cross-examination PW74 denied the suggestion that false
statements were recorded by him and at his behest by the
officials of PS Special Cell of witnesses to falsely implicate the
accused Rambeer Shokeen after registration of the present FIR in
order to create false evidence. He denied the suggestion that FIR
No.35/15 was registered at PS Special Cell against accused
Rambeer Shokeen and Neeraj Sehrawat to fulfill the ingredients
of MCOC Act by falsely implicating the accused Rambeer
Shokeen after registration of the present FIR. He admitted that
FIR No.35/15 and FIR No.65/2016 PS Special Cell were

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.343 of 385
 registered after the registration of the present FIR. Even during
cross-examination on behalf of the accused persons except the
accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW74 admitted that FIR No.35/2015,
FIR No.42/2015 PS Special Cell and FIR No.1683/2015 PS
Mangolpuri and FIR No.246/2015 PS Samaypur Badli were
registered after registration of the present FIR. 305. During cross-examination PW77 did not remember exactly

if prior to obtaining sanction, he came across any FIR in which
the accused Rambeer Shokeen was co-accused with the other
accused of the present case. He denied the suggestion that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was falsely implicated by him and
other police officials after registration of the FIR in question i.e.
FIR No.10/2015 PS Special Cell in FIR No.35/2015 and 65/2016
both registered at PS Special Cell to create false evidence and to
falsely implicate the accused Rambeer in the present case by
planting arms upon the accused Rambeer Shokeen at the behest
of senior police officials. As such, it is seen that several FIRs
were registered against the accused persons even after the
registration of the present FIR though nothing much turns on the
same in view of the settled position of law. It is thus seen that the
name of the accused Rambeer Shokeen was not there in the
approval which was granted for registration of FIR and it has
come on record through the testimony of witnesses that at that
point there was no FIR in which the accused Rambeer Shokeen
was co-accused with the other accused of the present case
(though FIR No.575/2014 PS Baghpat was there, the name of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had cropped up in the same only

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.344 of 385
 later). Subsequently, the name of the accused Rambeer Shokeen
came up in FIR No.575/2014 PS Baghpat and other FIRs were
also registered against him and eventually sanction was granted
qua the accused Rambeer Shokeen both by PW73 and by PW67.
As regards the other accused persons facing trial in the present
case, their names were there in the approval accorded for
registration of FIR, the FIR and also sanction was granted qua
them. 306. The main contention of the Ld. Counsels for the accused

persons is that besides the past charge sheets, there has to be an
activity which indicates continuity of offence or in other words
organized crime has to be continuing unlawful activity and
therefore, unless there is an act or omission indicating
continuation of unlawful activity there would be no question of
commission of organized crime and as such, in the present case,
there was nothing to show any continuing unlawful activity and
thereby organized crime and organized crime syndicate and thus,
the approval and sanction that were granted were bad in law as
no offence under MCOC Act could be said to have been made
out. It was contended that mere proof of filing a charge sheet was
not enough and it was only one of its requisites for constituting
the offence of organized crime. If proof of filing two charge
sheets was enough to establish an offence of organized crime,
there may be no occasion to carry out any investigation, other
than collecting copies of charge sheets. It was contended that
reference to "such offence" in Section 3 (1) implied a specific act
or omission. In the present case, it was argued that as conceded

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.345 of 385
 by the Investigating Officer PW74, the FIR did not disclose the
commission of a fresh act/ offence by the accused persons, rather
the IO in his discretion had got the present case registered and
the accused had been charge sheeted and prosecuted only on the
basis of previous charge sheets. 307. The Ld. Counsel had relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble

High Court of Bombay in Prafulla & Ors. v. State of
Maharashtra (supra) to argue that mere proof of filing charge
sheets in the past was not enough and there had to be indulgence
in any crime which could be said to be a continuation of past
criminal activity, in other words, there had to be a fresh act/
omission. In fact even in the judgment in John D'Souza v.
Assistant Commissioner of Police, B-1/Special, DCB, CID and
Ors. (supra) which was relied upon by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused persons, it was observed "In short, on receipt of an
"information" about the commission of an offence of organized
crime under MCOCA or having realised in the course of
investigation of the offence registered under ordinary law, that
the provisions of MCOCA are attracted a police officer can seek
approval under Section 23(1)(a) of the police officer not below
the rank of the Deputy Inspector General of Police". In the
judgment in Prafulla & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (supra),
it was laid down as to what was needed to be proved for charging
a person of committing an organized crime or being a member of
an organized crime syndicate and it was observed as under: It was further reiterated as held in Shabbir Mohd. v. State 2006
ALL MR (Cri.) 2751 that every ingredient of the offence has to
be established by the prosecution and past criminal activities are
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.347 of 385
 only one of the requisites for constituting offence under Section 3 of MCOC Act. The Hon'ble High Court had considered various
judgments and observed that apart from previous charge sheets,
there has to be a continuation, an activity to which MCOC Act is
applied. It was observed as under: 47. A look at provisions of the punishment, Section 3 of the MCOCA would fortify this conclusion. Clauses (i) and (ji) of Sub-section (1) would show
 that "if such offence has resulted in death of any
 person", the offence of organized crime would
 attract death sentence or life imprisonment with a
 fine of Rs. One Lakh. Now, if only old charge-sheets
 should be held as enough, a person acquitted of a
 murder charge in the past would be liable to be sent
 for a life term, in spite of acquittal, simply because a
 chargesheet had been filed in the past. Had this
 been contemplated, the learned Judge, Special
 Court, would have charged Accused No.1/1 Shiva of
 offence punishable under Section 3(1)(i) of MCOCA
 and not one punishable under Section 3(1)(ii) of the
 MCOCA, since Shiva had been charged once of
 murder (Sr.No.9 in the chart) and acquitted. Same
 would hold good about the other gangsters. Advocate Tiwari, the learned counsel for Mehmood
 and others relying on judgment of the Supreme
 Court in Dilip Singh v. State of Punjab , reported at
 1997(3) Current Criminal Journal 223, that charge-
 sheets cannot be made the basis of guilt or
 innocence of an accused. Therefore, it is clear that
 the offences referred to in various charge-sheets
 are not "such offence(s)" and consequently an
 offence, punishable under Section 3 of the
 MCOCA has to be different from those for which
 such accused had been charge-sheeted in the past. Past criminal activity only aggravates the
 continued activity amounting to an offence and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.349 of 385
 attracts provisions of MCOCA. 48. In view of this, since the appellants are not
 shown to have indulged in any crime which can be
 said to be continuation of past criminal activity
 provisions of Section 3(1) of the MCOCA are not
 attracted. It cannot be said that the appellants have
 committed the offence of organized crime. xxx 57. The contention of the learned A.P.P. that the
 provisions of MCOCA are applied to the members of
 the organized crime syndicate and then, what-ever
 offences they committed attract the provisions of the
 Act, is not supported by any provision of law or
 judicial pronouncement. Section 23 of MCOCA
 refers to recording information about commission of
 offence of organized crime. It does not refer to
 getting approval for invoking provisions of MCOCA
 in respect of the activities of any individual. It is not
 the case that any of the appellants have been
 previously held guilty of offences punishable under Section 3 of the MCOCA, and therefore, already
 held to be members of the organized crime
 syndicate. Had it been so, it would have been
 possible to argue that their continuing unlawful
 activities would amount to organized crime, though
 even such argument would have to be tested with
 reference to other requirements of the offence
 contained in Sections 2(d) , (e) and (f) of MCOCA.
 Such is not the present case. Therefore, the proposal
 for approval for recording information, recording
 information itself, conduct of investigation and filing
 of chargesheet do not relate to any actually
 continuing unlawful activity. The learned counsel
 for the appellants, therefore, cannot be said to have
 made a wild allegation that neither approval for
 recording information, nor sanction for filing
 chargesheet under Section 23 of the Act were
 accorded after applying mind to the requirements of
 law and the facts unfolded. 58. To sum up, in these cases, conviction of the
 appellants is based upon only filing of charge-sheets
 in the past. There is no overt act or omission,
 which would amount to continuation of unlawful
 activity carried out by use of force for the purpose
 of pecuniary gain, with which the appellants are
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.350 of 385
 charged. The only overt acts attributed to, and only
 to, the gang leaders, is possession of arms at their
 houses, when they were in custody, and after
 offences were registered under MCOCA. For these
 offences the learned Judge, Special Court has
 acquitted them. Crime Nos. 37 and 38 of 2001 in
 which MCOCA was sought to be applied, ended up
 in filing charge sheets without applying MCOCA
 and eventual acquittal of the accused therein. This
 leaves a big question mark or rather question
 marks, not only about application of mind while
 granting approval and sanction under Section 23 ,
 but also about mindlessness in pursuing the whole
 matter. Conviction of the appellants cannot therefore
 be sustained." (Emphasis supplied)

It was thus laid down that an offence, punishable under Section 3 of the MCOCA has to be different from those for which the
accused had been charge sheeted in the past and past criminal
activity only aggravates the continued activity amounting to an
offence and attracts provisions of MCOCA. The Ld. Counsel for
the accused persons had submitted that the ratio in Prafulla &
Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (supra) had been approved and
confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of
Maharashtra v. Shiva @ Shivaji Ramji Sonawane & Ors. (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court had observed as
under: (Emphasis supplied)

Though this case was essentially on the point whether the charge
sheets filed before the promulgation of MCOC Act could be
considered for the purpose of and be the sole basis for invoking MCOC Act after the Act was promulgated, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court upheld the order of the Hon'ble High Court holding that
continuation of unlawful activities was the second and equally
important requirement that ought to have been satisfied and that Section 3 MCOC Act could not be invoked merely on the basis
of previous pre- MCOC Act charge sheets as Section 3 would
come into play only if the accused were proved to have
committed an offence for gain or any pecuniary benefit or undue
economic or other advantage after promulgation of MCOC Act . 308. The judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of

Maharashtra v. Shiva @ Shivaji Ramji Sonawane & Ors. (supra) came up for consideration by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in a recent case The State of Gujarat v. Sandip Omprakash
Gupta Criminal Appeal No.2291 of 2022 decided on 15.12.2022
wherein also the question arose whether the charge sheets filed
before the promulgation of the Gujarat Control of Organized
Crime Act could be the sole basis for convicting the accused
under the said Act and it was observed as under: xxx 43. Thus, in Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane (supra), this Court took the view that there are two
 essential ingredients to constitute an offence under
 MCOCA. First, the registration of cases, filing of
 chargesheets and taking of cognizance by the
 competent court in relation to the offences alleged
 to have been committed by the accused in the past
 and secondly, continuation of unlawful activities.
 In other words, it is only if an organized crime is
 committed by the accused after the promulgation of
 the MCOCA that he may, on the basis of the
 previous chargesheets and the cognizance taken by
 the competent court, be said to have committed an
 offence under Section 3 of the MCOCA. 44. Indisputably, in Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji
 Sonawane (supra), the accused persons stood
 acquitted in connection with two of the crimes and
 considering the same, this Court took the view that
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.355 of 385
 the accused persons could not be said to have
 committed the alleged crime after the promulgation
 of MCOCA, as the allegations could not be proved
 against them. However, this Court, in no uncertain
 terms, has observed that what is important is the
 commission of an offence by the accused that would
 constitute 'continuing unlawful activity' and the
 unlawful activities could be said to have continued
 only if the accused are found to have indulged in an
 organized crime after the promulgation of the
 MCOCA. 45. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent-
 accused is right in his submission that having regard
 to the stringent provisions of the 2015 Act, its
 provisions should be very strictly interpreted and the
 authorities concerned would be obliged in law to
 strictly observe the said provisions. There need not
 be any debate on the fact that the provisions of the
 2015 Act have been enacted to deal with organized
 criminal activity in relation to offence, which are
 likely to create terror and endanger and unsettle the
 economy of the country for which stringent
 measures have been adopted. The provisions of the
 2015 Act seek to deprive a citizen of his right to
 freedom at the very initial stage of the investigation,
 making it extremely difficult for him to obtain bail.
 Other provisions relating to the admission of
 evidence and electronic media have also been
 provided for. In such a situation, it has to be ensured
 whether the investigation from its very inception has
 been conducted strictly in accordance with the
 provisions of the 2015 Act. (See: State of
 Maharashtra and Others v. Lalit Somdatta Nagpal
 and Another reported in (2007) 4 SCC 171). 46. It is a sound rule of construction that the substantive
 law should be construed strictly so as to give effect
 and protection to the substantive rights unless the
 statute otherwise intends. Strict construction is one
 which limits the application of the statute by the
 words used. According to Sutherland, 'strict
 construction refuses to extend the import of words
 used in a statute so as to embrace cases or acts
 which the words do not clearly describe'. 48. We are of the view and the same would be in tune
 with the dictum as laid in Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji
 Sonawane (supra) that there would have to be some
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.356 of 385
 act or omission which amounts to organized crime
 after the 2015 Act came into force i.e., 01.12.2019 in
 respect of which, the accused is sought to be tried
 for the first time in the special court. 49. We are in agreement with the view taken by the High
 Court of Judicature at Bombay in the case of Jaisingh (supra) that neither the definition of the
 term 'organized crime' nor of the term 'continuing
 unlawful activity' nor any other provision therein
 declares any activity performed prior to the
 enactment of the MCOCA to be an offence under the
 1999 Act nor the provision relating to punishment
 relates to any offence prior to the date of
 enforcement of the 1999 Act, i.e., 24.02.1999.
 However, by referring to the expression 'preceding
 period of ten years' in Section 2(1)(d) , which is a
 definition clause of the term 'continuing unlawful
 activity' inference is sought to be drawn that in fact,
 it takes into its ambit the acts done prior to the
 enforcement of the 1999 Act as being an offence
 under the 1999 Act. The same analogy will apply to
 the 2015 Act. 50. There is a vast difference between the act or activity,
 which is being termed or called as an offence under
 a statute and such act or activity being taken into
 consideration as one of the requisites for taking
 action under the statute. For the purpose of
 organized crime, there has to be a continuing
 unlawful activity. There cannot be continuing
 unlawful activity unless at least two chargesheets
 are found to have been lodged in relation to the
 offence punishable with three years' imprisonment
 during the period of ten years. Indisputably, the
 period of ten years may relate to the period prior to
 01.12.2019 or thereafter. In other words, it provides
 that the activities, which were offences under the
 law in force at the relevant time and in respect of
 which two chargesheets have been filed and the
 Court has taken cognizance thereof, during the
 period of preceding ten years, then it will be
 considered as continuing unlawful activity on
 01.12.2019 or thereafter. It nowhere by itself
 declares any activity to be an offence under the said
 2015 Act prior to 01.12.2019. It also does not
 convert any activity done prior to 01.12.2019 to be
 an offence under the said 2015 Act. It merely
 considers two charge-sheets in relation to the acts
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.357 of 385
 which were already declared as offences under the
 law in force to be one of the requisites for the
 purpose of identifying continuing unlawful activity
 and/or for the purpose of an action under the said
 2015 Act. 51. If the decision of the coordinate Bench of this Court
 in the case of Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane (supra) is looked into closely along with other
 provisions of the Act, the same would indicate that
 the offence of 'organized crime' could be said to
 have been constituted by at least one instance of
 continuation, apart from continuing unlawful
 activity evidenced by more than one chargesheets
 in the preceding ten years. We say so keeping in
 mind the following: But, if he continues with the unlawful activity,
 it cannot be said that the State has to wait till,
 he commits two acts of which cognizance is
 taken by the Court after coming into force. The same principle would apply, even in the
 case of the 2015 Act, with which we are
 concerned. 52. In the overall view of the matter, we are
 convinced that the dictum as laid by this Court in
 Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane (supra) does
 not require any relook. The dictum in Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane (supra) is the correct
 exposition of law." (Emphasis supplied)

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.359 of 385
 Thus, these judgments, though pronounced in light of the
peculiar facts of the cases wherein there were charge sheets
pertaining to offences prior to coming into force of the relevant
Acts which were considered for invoking the said Acts,
categorically laid down that continuing unlawful activity required
something further, i.e. a substantive offence thereafter which
would lead to invocation of MCOC Act and the previous charge
sheets were only one of the ingredients of the offence of
organized crime. Reference in this regard may also be made to
the judgment of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay, Bench at
Aurangabad in Darasing @ Maruti Vakilya, Bhosale and
Others v. The State of Maharashtra Criminal Appeal No.901
of 2018 decided on 03.08.2021 wherein the accused persons were
not charged and tried for any substantive crime but only for the
offences punishable under MCOC Act which is also the position
in the present case. The question that was posed was whether a
person could be convicted for the offence of organized crime
without there being a substantive offence and it was observed as
under: (emphasis supplied). Again in paragraph No.109 the observations of the
 Division Bench in the case of Jaisingh Ashrfilal
 Yadav and Ors v. State of Maharashtra and Anr.;
 2003 ALL MR (Cri) 1506 where quoted with a
 conclusion that even these observations would
 substantiate the submission that for establishing
 offence of organized crime something more than
 mere continuing unlawful activity is necessary. It is
 pertinent to note that even the observation and
 conclusion of a Single Judge in the case of Dinesh
 Mahadev Bhondwe v. State of Maharashtra ; 2007
 (2) Mh.L.J. (Cri) 718 to the contrary was held to be
 incorrect. Summarizing the conclusion in paragraph No.115 it
 has been observed as under: (Emphasis supplied). Thus, it was held that the provisions of MCOC Act would show
that the offence of "organized crime" was constituted by at least
one instance of continuation, apart from continuing unlawful
activity evidenced by more than one chargesheets in the
preceding ten years and why it would be so was also stated. It
was held that merely being involved in several crimes without
being involved in any other crime to elevate the continuing
unlawful activity to the case of organized crime as defined in Section 2(1)(e) of MCOC Act would not be sufficient and there
3 Pundlik So. Ukla Pawar and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra Criminal
Appeal No.184/2015 decided on 14.07.2020. State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.365 of 385
 had to be a substantive crime so as to constitute an organized
crime, such as during the investigation of an offence, the
investigation agency may seek to invoke MCOC Act , if the other
conditions for invoking MCOC Act are satisfied. That was the
position in Abhishek v. The State of Maharashtra (supra)
wherein a complaint was filed on 08.05.2020 alleging kidnapping
and intimidation and demand of ransom on the basis of which
Crime No.251 of 2020 came to be registered for offences under Sections 363 , 364A , 384 , 386 , 387 , 397 and 504 IPC. In the said
case, the provisions of MCOC Act were added after taking
approval of the competent authority. 309. In the instant case, it is the admitted position that there was

no substantive offence and the FIR was registered only on the
basis of the previous charge sheets filed against the accused
persons during the previous ten years after taking approval for
the same. There is merit in the submission on behalf of the
accused persons that the proposal for invoking Section 3 MCOC
Act sent by the IO on 14.02.2015 (Ex.PW74/A) did not contain
or disclose any overt act or omission which would amount to a
continuation of unlawful activity carried out by use of force for
the purpose of pecuniary gain. As submitted, the proposal
contained the list of various cases ranging from the years 2010 to
2014 against the accused Neeraj Sehrawat; from 2011 to 2014
against the accused Naveen Bali; from 2012 to 2014 against the
accused Rahul Kala and from 2010 to 2012 against the accused
Pankaj Sehrawat. It has not been disputed that charge sheets were
filed in the said cases and cognizance was taken in all the said

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.366 of 385
 cases. It may be mentioned that as per the settled law, if the
incidents referred to in the earlier crimes are committed by a
group of persons and one common individual is involved in all
the incidents, the offence under MCOC Act could be invoked. As
noted above, 14 FIRs were relied upon by the investigating
agency while moving the proposal and by the prosecution to
show the existence of an organized crime syndicate in which the
accused Neeraj Bawana was common and as such the said
condition was satisfied (though in some of the cases he had been
discharged or was subsequently discharged or acquitted). However, it is also necessary to refer to the fact that in State of
Maharashtra v. Shiva @ Shivaji Ramji Sonawane & Ors. (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court had not considered the cases
for attracting provisions of MCOCA, in which the accused had
been acquitted [though there are earlier judgments to the effect
that what is to be seen is that the person has been charged for the
first time or has been charged often and the circumstance of
conviction or acquittal that followed the charge are not material-
see Bharat Shantilal Shah v. State of Maharashtra 2003 ALL
MR (Cri) 1061 (DB)]. The Ld. Addl. PP for State would also
argue that what is material is that more than one charge sheets
had been filed on which cognizance had been taken by the
competent Court in the previous ten years and the result would be
immaterial and even otherwise, what happened subsequently in
the said cases could not have been before the competent authority
at the time of grant of approval. While there is merit in the latter
part of the argument that whether the matters subsequently
resulted in acquittal or conviction or discharge would not be

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.367 of 385
 before the competent authority at the time of grant of approval,
the first part of the argument would be in teeth of the settled legal
position. 310. In the present case well, it is seen that FIR No.69/2010 PS

Hari Nagar could not be relied upon and quite clearly, the
competent authority could have considered the said aspect. In
FIR No.180/12 PS Samaypur Badli, only the accused Neeraj
Bawana out of the present accused persons was named; similar
was the position with regard to FIR No.192/2012 PS Sadar
Panipat, Haryana, FIR No.194/2012 PS Sadar Panipat, Haryana,
FIR No.234/2012 PS Prashant Vihar and FIR No.40/2013 PS
Crime Branch, Delhi (in this case Rahul @ Kala was also stated
to be involved but the accused Neeraj Bawana already stood
discharged vide order dated 24.09.2013 i.e. prior to the proposal
being moved). In FIR No.437/2011 PS Jhajjar, Haryana the
accused Naveen @ Bali was also stated to be involved though the
accused Neeraj had subsequently been discharged on 18.10.2022.
Out of the remaining FIRs, the accused had been discharged in
FIR No.77/2012 PS Bawana on 29.07.2013 which would also
have been before the competent authority and in FIR No.98/2012
PS Prashant Vihar, the accused Neeraj and Naveen @ Bali had
been discharged on 13.09.2013 which would also have been
before the competent authority. In FIR No.575/2014 PS Baghpat,
charge sheet had not been filed on the day the proposal was moved
and subsequently the accused Rambeer Shokeen had been acquitted
while the matter is stated to be pending against the accused Neeraj
and even in FIR No.764/2014 PS Subhash Place,

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.368 of 385
 charge sheet had not been filed on the day the proposal was moved
and subsequently the accused Rambeer Shokeen had been acquitted
while the matter is stated to be pending against the accused Neeraj
and even in FIR No.764/2014 PS Subhash Place, charge sheet had
not been filed on the day of the proposal was moved. As such the
only cases which could be considered were FIR No.437/2011 PS
Jhajjar; FIR No.53/2012 PS Bawana in which the accused Naveen
@ Bali and Rahul @ Kala had been discharged vide order dated
01.07.2023 and the matter is stated to be continuing only against
the accused Neeraj; FIR No.179/2012 PS Bawana in which the
accused were acquitted vide judgment dated 24.07.2019 and FIR
No.99/2012 PS Bawana in which charge had been framed against
the accused persons vide order dated 01.07.2016. Even the first
three of the said four FIRs have resulted in discharge or acquittal. In
respect of some of the FIRs there is nothing to show that the
offences were undertaken on or behalf of any organized syndicate
and no such nexus has been shown. At the same time, the existence
of the said FIRs/ charge sheets would at the most satisfy only one of
the requirements for invoking the provisions of MCOCA. The other
requirement was of there being a substantive offence to elevate
continuing unlawful activity to the case of organized crime but it is
seen that in respect of all the said cases, the accused persons were
being separately charged/ tried for the offences before the
competent courts and as such there was no question of such
offences constituting the offence of organized crime. There being
no substantive offence indicating continuity, there could be no
continuation of the unlawful activity and as a corollary no
continuing unlawful activity and no organized crime. Further,
there being no organized crime, there could be nothing to show
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.369 of 385
 the existence of any organized crime syndicate. 311. As has been held, continuing unlawful activity evidenced by
more than one charge sheets is one of the ingredients of the offence of
organized crime and the purpose thereof is to see the antecedents and
not to convict, without proof of other facts which constitute the
ingredients of Section 2(1)(e) and Section 3 MCOC Act, which
respectively define commission of offence of organized crime and
prescribe punishment. In the present case, even if more than one
charge sheet was taken to exist on which cognizance had been taken,
there is nothing to show any act or omission which amounted to
organized crime in respect of which the accused were sought to be
tried for the first time, in the Special Court (i.e. had not been or were
not being tried elsewhere). All the cases that have been referred to are
being tried separately and the prosecution has not shown any act or
omission which amounts to organized crime in respect of which the
accused persons were sought to be tried for the first time. Clearly the
proposal was based only on past criminal activity without there being
a fresh act in continuation of the previous unlawful activity. There is
merit in the submission of the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that the proposal dated 14.02.2015 for approval for recording
information (Ex.PW74/A), the approval order dated 20.02.2015
(Ex.PW73/A), and recording of first information (Ex.PW20/2) did not
relate to any actual continuing unlawful activity once PW74 himself
had admitted during cross-examination that the proposal dated
14.02.2015 did not disclose any act or commission after the last case
in respect of which the FIR was registered qua any of the said 4
accused persons. 312. During cross-examination on behalf of the accused
persons except accused Rambeer Shokeen, PW74, on a perusal of the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.370 of 385
 record stated that the proposal contained a list of 14 criminal
cases against Neeraj Sehrawat and as per the records, charge
sheets were filed in all cases except FIR No.764/14 and FIR
No.1072/2014 of PS Subhash Place, Delhi and PS Kotwali,
Bagpat, UP respectively. He stated that in none of the said cases,
he was the investigator or involved in the investigation at any
point of time. He further stated that the proposal contained a list
of 7 criminal cases against Naveen @ Bali and as per the records,
charge sheets were filed in all cases except FIR No.120/14 of PS
Sadar Ballabhgarh. In none of the said cases, he was the
investigator or involved in the investigation at any point of time.
The proposal contained a list of 4 criminal cases against Rahul @
Kala and as per the records, charge sheets were filed in all the
cases. In none of the said cases, he was the investigator or
involved in the investigation at any point of time. The proposal
contained a list of 3 criminal cases against Pankaj Sehrawat and
as per the records, charge sheets were filed in all the cases except
in FIR No.206/12, PS South Rohini. In none of the said cases, he
was the investigator or involved in the investigation at any point
of time. He admitted that the proposal dated 14.02.2015 did not
disclose any act or commission after the last case in respect of
which FIR was registered qua any of the said four accused
persons which is also borne out by the record. He admitted that
he sought separate registration of FIR under Sections 3 and 4 of
MCOC Act and volunteered in his discretion. He admitted that
the FIR per se did not disclose the commission of any fresh
offence except those mentioned in the proposal and was a
verbatim reproduction of the contents of the proposal. FIR

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.371 of 385
 No.42/2015 PS Special Cell was not a subject matter of
investigation of the present FIR and volunteered both the FIRs
were investigated separately. Thus, PW74 was cross-examined
extensively and he admitted that he had sought separate
registration of FIR under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act and
volunteered in his discretion and further that the proposal dated
14.02.2015 did not disclose any act or commission after the last
case in respect of which FIR was registered qua any of the four
accused persons. As per the settled law, the offence punishable
under Section 3 MCOC Act has to be different from those for
which the accused had been charge sheeted in the past which was
not so in the instant case. In the present case, in absence of any
fresh act, there could not be said to any continuing unlawful
activity and consequently organized crime nor could it be said
that any of the accused persons were members of any organized
crime syndicate when the necessary ingredients of the same were
not fulfilled as for an organized crime syndicate, there must be a
group of two or more persons who, acting either singly or
collectively, as a syndicate or gang indulge in activities of
organized crime. 313. It is settled law that the approval for recording information

required under Section 23 of MCOC Act is not an empty
formality and provisions of Section 23 of the MCOC Act have to
be strictly complied with. However, in the instant case, the
competent authority i.e. PW73 failed to consider that mere filing
of charge sheets in the past was not sufficient to register fresh
FIR under MCOC Act against any of the accused persons and a

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.372 of 385
 fresh act or omission had to be there which was not so in the
present case and had thus failed to satisfy itself about the
commission of organized crime before giving the approval.
PW73 who had passed the approval order dated 20.02.2015 had
himself stated during his cross-examination that he did not recall
if any fresh unlawful act was committed by the accused persons
due to passage of time. He did not recall the date on which the
criminal case was last registered against Neeraj Bawana, Naveen
@ Bali, Rahul @ Kala, Amit @ Bhura and Pankaj Sehrawat prior
to registration of the MCOC Act and volunteered the cases were
registered within the previous 10 years of the registration of the
MCOCA case. This is also borne out by the record as the FIRs on
which reliance has been placed by the prosecution qua the
aforesaid accused persons were all registered within the previous
10 years of the registration of the present case but PW73 did not
recall the date on which the criminal case was last registered
against the accused persons. A further question was put to PW73
if it was correct that at the time of approval order dated
20.02.2015 and sanction order dated 09.09.2015, no fresh act
attributable to the accused persons other than the previous
involvements was brought to his knowledge to which he stated
that he did not recall if any fresh unlawful act was committed by
the accused persons due to passage of time and the same was a
matter of record. He denied the suggestion that the approval
order was passed without application of mind or in a mechanical
manner without there being any organized crime or that the
sanction order was passed without application of mind or in a
mechanical manner or that the approval order and sanction order

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.373 of 385
 were passed merely on the basis of previous involvements of the
accused persons. However, the grant of approval Ex.PW73/A
was without there being any continuing unlawful activity and
thus organized crime, hence the same cannot be regarded as
having been granted after due application of mind, consequently,
the approval itself stands vitiated and no case could have been
registered or investigated against the accused persons. 314. It is further the settled law that the provisions regarding

sanction contained in MCOC Act are mandatory and have to be
given a strict interpretation. A perusal of the language of Section
23(2) MCOC Act makes it evident that the Court cannot take
cognizance of an offence under MCOC Act without previous
sanction from the officer as provided in the section. On a perusal
of the sanction orders Ex.PW67/A and Ex.PW73/B, it is evident
that the IO had sought sanction for prosecuting the accused
persons only under Section 3(4) MCOC Act and not under any
other section and even sanction was granted only for the offence
under Section 3(4) MCOC Act. During cross-examination PW73
stated that as there are five sub sections of Section 3 of MCOC
Act, he had granted sanction under the specific sub-section of Section 3 of MCOC Act while approval was granted under Sections 3 and 4 of MCOC Act. He also stated that since the
sanction was accorded under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act it would
be safe to assume that only the offence under the said section was
made out against the accused Rambeer Shokeen. Even PW67
admitted that the sanction was accorded by him after duly going
through the case file and records and after applying his mind and

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.374 of 385
 after being fully satisfied and convinced only under Section 3 (4) of the MCOC Act and not under any other provision of the MCOC Act . Thus, both PW73 and PW67 had granted sanction
only under Section 3(4) of MCOC Act and not under any other
sub-sections of Section 3 MCOC Act or Section 4 MCOC Act. 315. A perusal of the charge which was framed against the

accused Rambeer Shokeen shows that no charge was framed
against him for the offence under Section 3(4) MCOC Act while
charge was framed against him for the offences under Sections
3(2) , 3(3) , 3(5) and Section 4 of MCOC Act though no cogent
evidence has come on record to show that he was a member of
any organized crime syndicate or even to establish any of the
other offences for which he was charged. As regards the accused
Neeraj Bawana, Naveen @ Bali, Rahul @ Kala and Pankaj
Sehrawat, it is seen that the sanction was accorded only for the
offence under Section 3(4) MCOC Act and the charge had been
framed for the offence under Section 3 MCOC Act without
specifying the sub-sections. From the language of the charge, it is
evident that the said accused persons had been charged for
committing organized crime and for being members of an
organized crime syndicate i.e. under Section 3(1) and Section
3(4) MCOC Act. However, in light of what has been discussed
above, the sanction that was granted was also without application
of mind, as such, as per the settled law the case could not have
proceeded against the accused persons and the entire proceedings
stood vitiated, besides the fact that there was nothing to show

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.375 of 385
 continuing unlawful activity and organized crime committed by
the accused persons or that they were members of an organized
crime syndicate. Once the approval for recording of information
and the sanction are held to be without application of mind, the
entire proceedings in the case stand vitiated. Even otherwise, no
cogent evidence has come on record in respect of the accused
persons qua any of the offences with which they have been
charged under MCOC Act . 316. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused Rambeer

Shokeen was declared an absconder on 23.02.2019 as he failed to
appear in the Court as required by the proclamation published
under Section 82 (1) of Cr.P.C. and charge was also framed
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen for the offence under Section 174A IPC vide order dated 02.03.2021 of my Ld.
Predecessor. A perusal of the record shows that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was earlier declared proclaimed offender vide
order dated 26.08.2015 of my Ld. Predecessor during the
investigation of the case but subsequently he was arrested and
remained in custody. The witnesses were cross-examined in this
respect and during cross-examination by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused Rambeer Shokeen PW51 stated that he had not placed
on record any photographs regarding affixation of process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. at any place. He denied the suggestion that
no notice was affixed at any place. He stated that he had done the

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.376 of 385
 announcement by beating of drums at the time of affixation of
process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. He denied the suggestion that
the beating of drums was not done while affixing the process.
PW74 admitted that NBWs were obtained against Jagdev
Shokeen and the application for the same along with Court order
are Ex.PW74/P1 bearing his signature at point X and that notice
under Section 160 Cr.P.C. was issued against Jagdev Shokeen.
He could not recall under what section the first notice was issued
to the accused Rambeer Shokeen. After perusing the case file, he
stated that as per the application for issuance of NBWs against
the accused Rambeer Shokeen, the first notice dated 14.04.2015
sent to accused Rambeer Shokeen was issued under Section 160 Cr.P.C. He did not recall at present what is the relation between
accused Rambeer Shokeen and Jagdev Shokeen. He could not
admit or deny the suggestion that the accused Rambeer Shokeen
and Jagdev Shokeen are real brothers. He had not interrogated
Rita Shokeen in the present case and volunteered he had
interacted with her when she had come with the application
Ex.PW74/X. He denied the suggestion that the accused Rambeer
Shokeen was always willing to join the investigation of the
present case and no notice was ever served upon him or that the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was neither a part of any crime
syndicate nor was involved in any criminal activity at any given
point of time. Thus, PW51 and PW74 were cross-examined on
behalf of the accused Rambeer Shokeen being declared a
proclaimed offender vide order 26.08.2015 of my Ld.
Predecessor but the charge that has been framed against the
accused Rambeer Shokeen is in respect of his being declared

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.377 of 385
 absconder vide order dated 23.02.2019 and not earlier. 317. The accused Rambeer Shokeen was subsequently
apprehended in the present case on 01.12.2016 after his
apprehension in FIR No.65/2016 PS Special Cell and he
remained in custody. Thereafter, it was reported by the Ld.
Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen, who was granted interim bail till 05.10.2018
had escaped from the custody of U.P. Police, when he was
produced before Safdarjung Hospital Delhi and the IO had
submitted that on 26.09.2018, the accused Rambeer Shokeen had
escaped from the custody of U.P. Police escort from Safdarjung
Hospital New Delhi and FIR No.242 dated 27.09.2018 under Sections 223 / 224 IPC PS Safdarjung Enclave had been registered
in that regard. Thereafter notice was issued to the accused
Rambeer Shokeen as well as his sureties vide order dated
28.09.2018 of my Ld. Predecessor for 01.10.2018. The notice
issued to accused Rambeer Shokeen was received back unserved
on 01.10.2018 with the report that both the premises were found
locked and on inquiry the neighbors stated that they were not
aware about the accused and nobody was staying at the given
address. Accordingly, NBWs were issued against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen for 05.10.2018 and both the sureties also
sought time to produce the accused. 318. On 05.10.2018, the NBWs issued against the accused

Rambeer Shokeen were received back unexecuted and fresh
NBWs were directed to be issued against him for 23.10.2018.
The sureties again sought time for tracing the accused. On

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.378 of 385
 23.10.2018, it was recorded that the NBWs issued against the
accused Rambeer Shokeen had been received back unexecuted
and the Ld. Additional PP had submitted that the accused
Rambeer Shokeen was absconding and concealing himself. It
was noted that the accused Rambeer Shokeen was granted
interim bail till 05.10.2018 vide order dated 20.09.2018.
However, he was also in custody in some other cases in UP and
had escaped from custody of U.P. police; NBWs issued against
the accused on 01.10.2018 and 05.10.2018 could not be executed
and as such, there appeared to be sufficient grounds to believe
that the accused was absconding and concealing himself to avoid
execution of warrants against him. Accordingly, process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was directed to be issued against the accused
Rambeer Shokeen for 05.12.2018 with the direction that the copy
of the proclamation may also be published in one national daily
newspaper, each in English and Hindi. The sureties again sought
time to produce the accused Rambeer Shokeen. On 05.12.2018,
HC Parvesh Kumar was present and had filed the report
regarding the process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen, which was executed on 15.11.2018
but as 30 days' time was not given to the accused after
publication of the proclamation for his appearance in the Court,
fresh process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was directed to be issued
against the accused Rambeer Shokeen for 30.01.2019. 319. On 30.01.2019, HC Parvesh Kumar Rathi had filed the

report on the process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. in respect of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen. On 23.02.2019, statement of Process

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.379 of 385
 Server HC Pravesh Kumar, who had executed the process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was recorded. It was noted in the order sheet
dated 23.02.2019 as under: Thus, vide order dated 23.02.2019 of my Ld. Predecessor, the
accused Rambeer Shokeen was declared absconder as the
proclamation was made on 10.12.2018 requiring him to appear in
State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.380 of 385
 the Court on 30.01.2019 which he failed to do. The Ld. Counsel
for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had tried to contend that the
notice was not received by the accused Rambeer Shokeen but as
recorded in the order sheet by which NBWs had been issued
against him, the notice issued to the accused Rambeer Shokeen
was received back unserved with the report that both the
premises were found locked and on inquiries the neighbors had
stated that they were not aware about the accused and nobody
was staying at the given address. It is not the case of the accused
that the said addresses were not his nor he had furnished any
other address during the pendency of the case. Even the NBWs,
which were issued against the accused Rambeer Shokeen twice
had been received back unexecuted. As such there is no merit in
this contention. 320. The Ld. Counsel for the accused Rambeer Shokeen had

then argued that he had escaped on account of his medical
condition as he was unaware of the consequences of his act. The
Ld. Counsel had also submitted that the accused Rambeer
Shokeen had been granted interim bail vide order dated
20.09.2018 till 05.10.2018 and if he was aware about the
consequences of his act, he would not have escaped when he had
already been granted interim bail. The Ld. Counsel had also
referred to the medical documents and order sheets which point
to the fact that the accused was under medical treatment and in
fact the accused Rambeer Shokeen had escaped when he was
taken to Safdarjung Hospital. It was urged that the order sheets
would show that the accused was suffering from various ailments

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.381 of 385
 and mental issues and since April 2017 he had been going
regularly to AIIMS and other hospitals for treatment and was on
medication for various ailments and was still under treatment.
Reference was made to the order dated 19.04.2017 which was in
context of the application for interim bail filed by the accused on
ground of medical illness of his wife. Reference was made to the
order dated 12.04.2018 by which extension of earlier interim bail
was sought and it was noted in the order sheet that the medical
documents of the accused had been verified and had been found
to be genuine. It had also been recorded that the behaviour of the
accused had been found to be abnormal and he had been referred
to IHBAS which was the only Government Institute to take care
of mental illness. Further the medical documents showed that he
had suicidal tendencies and he was suffering from severe
depression which was also recorded in the order of 15.05.2018
for extension of interim bail and that the documents stood
verified. It was pointed out that the documents showed that the
accused had been continuously referred to IHBAS from the jail
itself. It was contended that the accused was of unsound mind
and on the day of the escape, he was unable to understand the
consequences of his act. 321. While there are order sheets which record that the medical

documents of the accused had been verified and by which he had
been referred to IBHAS and it would also not stand to reason that
a person who had been admitted to interim bail would escape,
however, there is difference between suffering mental problems
and being of unsound mind and in the instant case, there is

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.382 of 385
 nothing to show that the accused was of unsound mind on the
date that he escaped. It was submitted that it was not the case that
the accused was again arrested but he had himself surrendered in
December 2020 which was mentioned in the order sheet dated
21.01.2021 or that during the period that he had escaped from
custody, he had committed another crime after escape or that he
escaped with the assistance of any other accused and in fact he
had himself surrendered but the said argument is neither here nor
there as it cannot be disputed that the accused had not appeared
in Court as required by the proclamation issued under Section
82(1) Cr.P.C. and was thereafter declared an 'absconder'. It may
also be mentioned that there was no document of treatment of the
accused after he had escaped till he surrendered though even
after the accused had surrendered, he had been under medical
treatment in AIIMS. 322. The Ld. Counsel had then submitted that when the accused

had escaped, a separate FIR was also registered being FIR
No.242/18 under Sections 223 and 224 IPC PS Safdarjung
Enclave which was pending trial at Saket Court as the accused
had escaped from Safdarjung Hospital. However, the present
accusation against the accused is in respect of not appearing
before the Court as per the proclamation issued under Section
82(1) Cr.P.C. It was submitted that the circumstances were on
record which substantiated the fact that in the present case mens
rea was absent and for every offence there should be mens rea.
However, the requirement of Section 174A IPC is clear, if a
person fails to appear as required by the proclamation published

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.383 of 385
 under sub-section (1) of Section 82 of Cr.P.C. and is declared
absconder, he is liable for the offence under Section 174A IPC. Section 174A IPC reads as under: Thus, a reading of Section would make it clear that failing to
appear at the specified place and at specified time as required by
the proclamation published under Section 82 (1) Cr.P.C. is
sufficient to attract the offence under Section 174A IPC. In the
instant case, the Ld. Counsel for the accused may have submitted
that the accused was not aware of the consequences of his act so
he had escaped when he was already admitted to interim bail but
no cogent explanation has been furnished for his failure to appear
at the specified place and specified time as required by the
proclamation published under Section 82 (1) of Cr.P.C. and it is
not in dispute that he had failed to appear in Court on 30.01.2019
in response to the proclamation and was thereafter declared an
absconder vide order dated 23.02.2019 of my Ld. Predecessor. In
view of the same, the prosecution has proved the guilt of the
accused Rambeer Shokeen for the offence under Section 174A IPC beyond reasonable doubt and he is held guilty of committing

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.384 of 385
 the offence punishable under Section 174A IPC. CONCLUSION 323. From the aforesaid discussion, it is evident that the

prosecution has failed to prove the charge under MCOCA against
the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the
accused Neeraj Sehrawat @ Neeraj Bawana @ Neetu, Pankaj
Sehrawat, Naveen Dabas @ Bali and Rahul Dabas are acquitted
of the offences under Section 3 of Maharashtra Control of
Organized Crime Act, 1999. The accused persons are in custody.
They be released forthwith, if not wanted in any other case. The
accused persons are also directed to furnish a bond under the
provisions of Section 437A Cr.P.C. 324. The accused Rambeer Shokeen is acquitted of the offences

under Sections 3(2) , 3(3) , 3(5) and 4 of Maharashtra Control of
Organized Crime Act, 1999. However, the prosecution has
proved his guilt for the offence under Section 174A IPC beyond
reasonable doubt and he is convicted for the same. Put up for
arguments on the point of sentence on behalf of the convict
Rambeer Shokeen on 26.08.2023. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT (GEETANJLI GOEL)
ON 23rd day of August, 2023 ASJ/SPL. JUDGE (PC ACT) (CBI)-24
 ROUSE AVENUE DISTRICT COURT
 NEW DELHI

State Vs. Pankaj Sehrawat and Ors. Page No.385 of 385