1. The assessee has filed appeal against the order of the Learned

 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-19, New Delhi["Ld. CIT(A)",

 for short] dated 12.12.2018 for the Assessment Year 2015-16 raising

 following grounds of appeal :- being alleged payment of commission only on the imaginative basis without
 any material." 2. Brief facts of the case are, assessee has filed return of income showing

 income of Rs.10,77,180/- on 26.08.2015. The case was selected for

 scrutiny and notices u/s 143(2) and 142(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961

 (for short 'the Act') along with questionnaire were issued and served on

 the assessee. In response, ld. AR of the assessee attended and furnished

 details/documents/replies which were placed on record. Besides this,

 assessee has also disclosed long term capital gain on sale of shares of

 M/s. Alps Motor Finance Limited of Rs.4,24,91,703/- which was claimed

 as exempt u/s 10 (38) of the Act. During assessment proceedings,

 assessee submitted that purchase/sale of shares and long term capital gain

 was normal course and was not arranged one which was evidenced and 3 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 duly supported by various documents which were submitted during the

 assessment proceedings. However, AO after detailed discussion held that

 the inability of assessee to explain the same both through the statement

 recorded as well as response to show-cause notice clearly demonstrated

 that LTCG incurred by the assessee is a bogus one and accordingly made

 addition as under :- 6. On the other hand, ld. DR of the Revenue relied upon the orders of the

 authorities below. 7. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record. We

 observed that the issue involved in the present case is exactly similar to

 the case of Vipin Jain (supra), individual. We have gone through the

 order of the ITAT in Vipin Jain, individual's case (supra) wherein the

 ITAT has decided the appeal in favour of the assessee wherein the scrip 12 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. was involved, which is also involved in the

present case, and the relevant findings of ITAT are as under :- "8. We have heard the rival submissions and also perused the
 relevant findings given in the impugned orders as well as material
 referred to before us. The main contention of the ld. counsel before
 us was that nowhere the evidences filed by the assessee have been
 doubted and neither the purchase made in the earlier years has been
 disbelieved. The Assessing Officer has taxed only the net Long
 Term Capital Gain and alleged commission of 5% for arranging
 such Long Term Capital Gain. He drew our attention to the
 documents refuting to purchase of 628O0 equity shares for sum of
 Rs.12,5,600/- in all market transaction to Shri Vishal Yadav in
 November 2012 and also the factum of dematerialization of shares
 on 17.1.2014 it was credited to the demat account with Vijaya
 Bank in the month of January, February 2014. It was in the
 Assessment Year 2014-15, the assessee had sold the shares i.e.
 17500 shares on 30.07.2014 at the rate of Rs.430 per share and
 balance 45300 equity shares got split into 4,53,000 equity shares of
 Rs.1 each on 06.08.2014. And whole of the split shares were sold
 from August, 2014 to October, 2014 at a marker price in the range
 of Rs.61.05 to Rs.53.10 through M/s. Century Finvest Pvt. Ltd., a
 SEBI registered broker. As per the contract note and the
 transaction details it is seen that the shares were sold in different
 lots and the transaction of sale of shares is evidenced from contract
 notes appearing at pages 29-35 of the PB. And also the statement
 of the DEMAT Account. Apart from that, from the perusal of the
 abstract of cash account and confirmation from Vishal Yadav, it
 can be seen that, assessee has paid amount of Rs.1,25,500 in cash
 for purchase of shares and the sale proceeds have been received on
 various dates in the assessee's bank account with Vijaya Bank
 appearing at Pages 24-28 of the PB. Not only that, from perusal of
 the DEMAT account, it is seen that assessee also had investment in
 shares of other companies also and it is not that this was a solitary
 transaction. Further, Ld. AR for the assessee submitted that
 following documents and evidence goes to show and prove the
 genuineness of sale and purchase of shares which are as under :- Further, there is no finding or any whisper in the impugned orders
that some unaccounted money has been routed through some
accommodation entry provider or getting the bogus long-term
capital gain. 15 In addition, one very important fact brought on record by the
Ld AR is that the very same scrip was subject matter adjudication
in the case of Shri Vìshal Kumar Vijay vs ITO ITA No
4714/Del/2018, Order dated 28.11.2018 and in the case of Akita
Vijay vs ITAT ITA No.5025/Del/2018 dated 08.02.2019 and the
Hon'ble tribunal after examining the transaction statement of the
stock broker, Contract Note for sale of shares, transaction
statement of the DEMAT Account and other documentary
evidences had held that the transaction was genuine. 16. On the other hand, ld. DR strongly relied upon the order of
the Assessing Officer and submitted that here in this case the facts
and circumstances clearly indicates that assessee has taken an
accommodation entry for bogus Long Term Capital Gain for which
all paper work has been done like in all such bogus entries. It is a
solitary transaction of the shares and the financial credibility of
Alps Motor Finance Ltd clearly indicates the fact that this company
did not had worth to justify such a higher share price, which means
that the price were manipulated in the stock exchange only to
provide accommodation entry for bogus Long Term Capital Gains /
Loss. In support, he strongly relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in the case of Udit Kalra v/s. ITO. ITA No.
220/2019 and decision of Tribunal in the case of Udit Kalra vs.
ITO, ITA No.6717/Del/201 7. He further relied upon the judgment
of ITAT Delhi 'SMC' Bench in the case of Anip Rastogi and Anju
Rastogi in ITA No.3809 /Del/2018 and 3801/Del/2018. Relying on
these Judgments, he submitted that even the Hon'ble High Court
have frowned upon such bogus Long Term Capital Gain. 17. After considering the entire gamut of facts and material on
record and the submissions made by the parties, one important fact 16 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 which emerges from the record is that, the shares were purchased
by the assessee in the Assessment Year 2012-13 for sum of
Rs.1,25,000/- which has been sold in the impugned assessment
order for Rs.3,20,57,034/- and Long Term Capital Gain of
Rs.3,18,92,584/- has been declared which has been disallowed by
the Assessing Officer and has been taxed u/s.68 . This inter alia
shows that the purchases made in the earlier years regarding shares
have not been disputed at all, only Net LTCG has been added.
Major part of the discussion in the assessment order is show how
the Director of Instigation Calcutta carried out countrywide
investigation wherein the modus operandi were providing Long
Term Capital Gain / Short Term Capital Loss were unearthed and
Assessing Officer has given sample of cash trail and how the
mechanism works which has been illustrated by him in detail. He
has given a master table and cash trail showing name of 18 broker
companies/persons and concern jama kharchi companies and also
name of various persons who were involved as share broker,
promoter, beneficiaries or otherwise who were indulged in
malpractices and whose case search and survey were carried out
and submissions were recorded. From the bare perusal of these
exhaustive list and information, it is seen that none of the
shareholders or jama kharchi companies were involved in scrips of
Alps Motors Finance Ltd. or nowhere the assessee's transaction or
the name of assessee's broker or assessee being beneficiary has
been mentioned. From the statement of the assessee also, nothing
adverse can be inferred except that he has bought the shares from
one Mr Vishal Yadav who met him in some marriage ceremony
from whom assessee had made the purchases and assessee had sold
the shares on the advice of brokers M/s Century Finvest Pvt. Ltd.
Further, it has been mentioned that assessee had purchased 62800
equity shares for sum of Rs.1,25,600/- in off-market transaction
and assessee requested the depositor for materialization of shares
on 17.01.2014 and these shares were credited to his demat account
with Vjaya Bank on 10.02.2014 thereafter shares have been sold on
two lots on two different prices, one of 17500 shares on
30.07.2014, Rs.430per shares and balance of 45300 shares between
August 2014 to October 2014 at a market price ranging from
Rs.61.05 to Rs.53.10 through registered stock broker, M/s Century
Finvest Pvt. Ltd. The shares have been sold to recognized stock
exchange BSE on quoted price on the date and thereafter the
money has been credited into the account of the assessee. 18. Further, the Assessing Officer has strongly referred to two
statements, one of Mr. Bikash Surekha and other of Mr. Anil
Khemkha. Though Mr. Bikash Surekha have accepted that they
were used to provide accommodation entry for bogus Long Term
Capital Gain, but nowhere he has said that they have provided
accommodation entries in Alps Motor Finance Ltd. Further in the
statement of Anil Kumar Khemkha also and in the list of various
jama kharchi companies wherein the name of Alps Motors Finance
Ltd. has not been figured. Further, in reply to question no. 18, Mr.
Anil Kumar Khemkha mentions the list of scrips, and stated that,
he has provided accommodation entry but nowhere the name of
Alps Motor Finance Ltd. is appearing in his statement. Once again
from the bare perusal of the list captioned as Annexure-B annexed
alongwith the statement which contains names of 106 companies
are mentioned, wherein he has said that he was providing
accommodation entry through various scrips, it is seen that, scrip
of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. is not appearing and nowhere it has
surfaced that scrip was used for providing accommodation entry.
We are unable to appreciate as how these statements have any
relevance on transaction or there is something to implicate assessee
that he was involved in accommodation entry fur taking bogus
Long Term Capital Gain. 19. Another important factor here in this case is that, the ld.
counsel has placed various orders of SEBI which is a regulatory
authority for smooth functioning or monitoring of stock exchange
to point out that at no point of time, the trading of Alps Motor
Finance Ltd. was suspended or there was any finding that the
prices of the Alps Motor Finance Ltd. were rigged or there was any
kind of manipulation. In the present case, the shares have been
transacted at a market price quoted on the date of transaction in the
Stock exchange and on screen based trading, and therefore, to infer
that the price have been rigged in violation of SEBI rules or
guidelines may not be correct. There has to be some iota of
evidence or incriminating material that, either Alps Motors Finance
Ltd. was suspended or trading of its shares were banned by the
SEBI for manipulating or rigging of the share price in the stock
exchange or any action has been taken by the SEBI against the said
company or against the brokers. Simply because the prices have
risen in a short span of two years, that does not mean there is some
kind of manipulation unless some authority have found so or there
is any material or inquiry from it has been unearthed that the price 18 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 of scrip of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. was manipulated for purpose
of providing accommodation entry. Here in this case, there is
neither any direct or indirect evidence made through inquiry from
assessee's broker or from Directors of Alps Moto Finance Ltd. or
otherwise. 20. One of the point harped upon by the Revenue is that, Mr.
Rikash Surekha has accepted in the statements reproduced in the
assessment order that two entities, namely, Durai Marketing and
Rochak Vinay Private Lid. who have purchased the shares of Alps
Motor Pvt. Ltd. were run by him and were used to provide
accommodation entry for bogus long Term Capital Gain, First of
all, such statement has no direct or indirect connection with the
assessee or the transaction of shares that these two companies have
purchased the shares of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. from, assessee;
nor there is any reference that assessee was beneficiary of any kind
of accommodation entry by the said entry operator. Nowhere there
is any reference of the scrip of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. in his
statement. To draw any adverse inference against the assessee
based on such statement would be wholly erroneous, because,
firstly, assessee has not been implicated in such statement; and
secondly, if the said statement is the sole basis for disbelieving the
transaction, then on the principle of natural justice, cross
examination has to be provided to the assessee, In any case, there is
no conclusive averment that all the trading of scrip of Alps Motor
Finance Ltd. was manipulated for bogus Long Term Capital Gain.
Prima facie there has to be some kind of information or material on
record that the trading of Alps Motor Finance Ltd. was ever banned
by SEBI. 21. A general modus operanedi cannot be resorted to hold in all
such cases that assessee must have entered into bogus Long Term
Capital Gain provided by any entry provider. At best it could be a
good ground for making prima facie inquiry to scrutinize the
transaction and then draw any inference But sans any inquiry or
investigation or material on record to implicate the assessee, cannot
be the basis for disbelieving the transaction. There has to at least
some kind of prima facie inquiry by the Assessing Officer or some
information or material has been gathered or found in some inquiry
or investigation to indicate that transaction undertaken by the
assessee is sham or is a colourable device, If the shares are
recorded in the books and are appearing in physical form and then 19 ITA No.910/DEL/2019 have been dematerialized and purchase of such shares have not
 been doubted, then sale of the same shares in Stock Exchange at a
 quoted price cannot be held to be unexplained cash credit within
 the meaning of Section 68 , Once a Capital asset has been acquired,
 reflected in the accounts of the assessee and has been sold, for
 which necessary evidences have been filed and there is no adverse
 material or information or inquiry to prove that nature and source
 of credit as explained by the assessee is false, no adverse inference
 cannot be drawn and the evidences and explanation given by the
 assessee cannot be discredited. We again reiterate that though the
 accommodation entry of bogus Long Term Capital Gain is a
 menace which has been unearthed through investigation but
 general perception and general modus operandi sans any evidence
 or material or any kind of prima facie inquiry cannot render the
 transaction as sham bogus. In such cases, even if preponderance of
 probability is taken into consideration, then also the material and
 evidence adduced by the assessee have to rebutted by some kind of
 tangible material coming on record. Otherwise the evidences and
 explanation of the assessee cannot be discredited. Thus, on the
 facts and circumstances of the case as well as material available on
 record, we do not find any reason to sustain the addition made by
 the Assessing Officer. Accordingly, the said addition made u/s.68 and consequently u/s 69C is deleted. Accordingly, Assessee's claim
 for exemption u/s. 10 on Long Term Capital Gain is allowed. 22. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 8. Against the order of ITAT in Vipin Jain's case, the Department filed an

 appeal before the Hon'ble High Court and Hon'ble Court has decided the

 issue against the Department by observing as under :- Similarly, the case of Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) too turns on its
 own specific facts. The above-stated cases, thus, are of no assistance
 to the case sought to be canvassed by the Revenue. 13. The learned ITAT, being the last fact-finding authority, on
 the basis of the evidence brought on record, has rightly come to the
 conclusion that the lower tax authorities are not able to sustain the
 addition without any cogent material on record. We thus find no
 perversity in the Impugned Order." [Emphasis supplied] 17. The view taken in the case of Smt. Krishna Devi (supra) was
 subsequently followed in another decision of this Court in PCIT v. Karuna
 Garg [2022 SCC OnLine Del 4079]. 18. In view of the aforesaid, we find that the present appeals do not
 raise any substantial question of law. 19. Consequently, we do not find any reason to interfere with the
 decision of the ITAT and thus, the appeals stand dismissed. Pending
 application(s), if any, are also disposed of." 9. Respectfully following the aforesaid decision of ITAT and Hon'ble

 Delhi High Court, we are inclined to allow the grounds taken by the

 assessee. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. 10. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on this 9th day of April, 2025.