1. The petitioner incarcerated in the FIR captioned above had come up before this
Court under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, [BNSS], seeking
regular bail. 2. In paragraph 11 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. The facts and allegations are being taken from the reply filed by the State, which
reads as follows: 4. The petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and
contends that further pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the
petitioner and their family. 5. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the reply. 6. There is sufficient primafacie evidence connecting the petitioner with the alleged
crime. However, pre-trial incarceration should not be a replica of post-conviction
sentencing. 7. Per the custody certificate dated 02.10.2024, the petitioner's total custody in this
FIR is 09 months and 09 days. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial
custody, coupled with the primafacie analysis of the nature of allegations, and the other
factors peculiar to this case, there would be no justifiability for further pre-trial
incarceration at this stage, subject to the compliance of terms and conditions mentioned
in this order. 8. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances
peculiar to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case
for bail. This order shall come into force from the time it is uploaded on this Court's
official webpage. 9. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above subject to furnishing
bonds to the satisfaction of the concerned Court and due to unavailability before any
nearest Ilaqa Magistrate/duty Magistrate. Before accepting the surety, the concerned
Court must be satisfied that if the accused fails to appear, such surety can produce the
accused. 10. While furnishing a personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the
following personal identification details: 11. This order is subject to the petitioner's complying with the following terms. 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 09-11-2024 00:07:40 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:145567 CRM-M-45330-2024 -4- 12. The petitioner shall abide by all statutory bond conditions and appear before the
concerned Court(s) on all dates. The petitioner shall not tamper with the evidence,
influence, browbeat, pressurize, induce, threaten, or promise, directly or indirectly, any
witnesses, Police officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of the case or dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police or
the Court. 13. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 14. A certified copy of this order would not be needed for furnishing bonds, and any
Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. If the attesting officer
wants to verify its authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. 15. Petition allowed in terms mentioned above. All pending applications, if any,
stand disposed of.