Whoever comes in contact with the present case and the facts involved

would definitely agree, the situation is disastrous. The magnitude of

the problem is huge, unless steps taken, it would be an economic

disaster. It has social impact too, hence the disaster may extend to

the society as well, particularly in Eastern India where the problem

has an impeccable effect. Ordinarily, the Court of Law, particularly in civil litigations that would

have a dominating effect in the writ jurisdiction as well, would always

consider the pleadings and the pleadings only and seldom step out. In

public interest litigation, the Court of Law made a departure in the

past. The Apex Court did so being empowered by Article 142. We, the

High Court, are aware of our plenary power under Article 226 , even

then we ordinarily restrain ourselves in encroaching upon the arena of

legislature or the executive as it would create immense difficulty for

smooth running of the democracy where all three wings being the

legislature, executive and judiciary have different arena of travel. We
 are perplexed in the present situation as the averments do not fully

impress us. At the same time we cannot be a mere on-looker

considering the magnitude of the disaster. When we decide litigation, we consider the pleadings and discuss the

relevant gist in our judgment to find out the point where the parties

would join issue in an adversarial litigation and in other litigations

too. In the present case, we would make a departure. We would

venture to scan the pleadings with little detail to avoid even a

microscopic issue that might not have equal effect with the other

issues would have. BACK DROP : The chit fund companies' operation in West Bengal and the collapse of

Saradha, triggered panic amongst the depositors leading to breach of

peace as appearing in the news item. She talked about the chit fund

companies operating in 1979 and 90's in paragraphs 41 and 42. She

also referred to the other chit funds in paragraphs 43 to 47 that would

disturb the State finance mechanism as the State was entitled to avail

75% loan from the small savings. As a result, small savings target

failed as stated in paragraph 47. She would apprehend the ministers'

intervention in the investment and thus, would demand CBI

investigation. She would also contend, so long the print and

electronic media belonging to Saradha Group would be functioning, it

would be receiving grant from the State Government and would be

propagating the cause of the ruling party, as stated in paragraphs 50

and 51. In paragraphs 52 to 55, she was apprehending intervention of
 the politicians including Members of Parliaments. In the rest of the

paragraphs, she was trying to impress upon the Court the magnitude

of the problem and the necessities of appointment of CBI. It was in

the nature of submission in paragraph 56. She was complaining of

functioning of the other groups like, Rose Valley, MPS, Prayag, URO

and others having the same modus operandi. AFFIDAVIT-IN-OPPOSITION : Sudipta also filed an affidavit, we do not wish to give any importance

to the said affidavit. He, however, expressed satisfaction over the

present investigation system, that was conducting investigation in

respect of the scam where he was one of the accused. The parties

would legitimately contend, it was peculiar, rather strange, the

accused would express satisfaction on the conduct of the investigation

against him by the investigating agency. We do not blame the counsel

who would say so. At the same time, we would not brush aside the

chance of diverting the attention of the Court. It may not be a ploy of

the accused. There is one more significant fact. In the affidavit of

Sudipta, he suggested, his properties and bank accounts be seized

and the creditors may be paid off upon verifying their claims. It might

be an attempt to dilute the situation lessening the magnitude of the
 heinous crime that he did. We, thus, do not give any credence to his

affidavit. He wrote a letter to SEBI on April 1, 2013. He also wrote a

letter to the CBI. We would be dealing those two letters separately.

CBI also filed affidavit willing to take it up subject to extension of the

State infrastructure. NARENDRA PRASAD GUPTA : Elaborating his argument, he would refer to in detail the letter of

Sudipta appearing at page 196 to 213 of the paper book. He gave us

briefly the idea of the backdrop, narrated past of Saradha and their

involvement in the money market in the State, the mode of operation

and at the same time lackadaisical approach of the State in curbing

the menace. He informed us, the incident triggered of on the close of a

media followed by a complaint of an employee for not getting salary for

months together. He would refer to affidavit of Sudipta and comment,

the nexus with the State agency, was established. He would refer to

the affidavit of the State, particularly the enactment of the law after

the incident surfaced in the media. According to him, the new law

even if would be adequate to curb the menace, would not be in a

position to deal with the Saradha case as the law could not have

retrospective effect. He would refer to the Reserve Bank of India Act,
 1934 . Chapter IIIA of the said Act of 1934 would relate to collection

and furnishing of credit information that would refer to the wide power

granted to the Reserve Bank of India to take penal measure in case of

any breach but by any banking company or a finance company. He

would refer to various cases where our Courts as well as the Apex

Court dealt with the issue of CBI investigation. He relied on the case

of Centre for Public Interest Litigation and others Versus Union

of India and others reported in (2011) 1 Supreme Court Cases

560, to support his contention, a petition of the like nature could not

be dismissed in limine. He also cited the following decisions: UDAY SANKAR CHATTOPADHYAY : In any event, on April 3, 2013 he resigned from the group as would

appear from his pleadings. NARESH BALODIA : Citing the case of Hema -VS- State through Inspector of Police,

Madras reported in All India Reporter 1913 Supreme Court Page-

1000 Mr. Bhattacharya learned senior counsel relied on a passage

where the Apex Court observed, efforts should be made to ensure a

fair trial. He would contend, fair trial would also include fair

investigation. OUR UNDERSTANDING ON THE LAW ON A COMBINED READING

OF THE PRECEDENTS AS ABOVE : It would be a Court for all purpose as far as practicable. iv) Since the SIT is working with the active assistance of Bidhannagore

Commissionerate we feel it prudent, State should extend sufficient

logical infrastructure to the said Commissionerate and try to establish

Special Court in terms of Clause (iii) above in and around the Salt

Lake City to avoid delay in the process. v) State should also examine the possibility of establishing one more

Special Court of the like nature dealing with identical cases of other

groups, if any lodged with the Police in any Police Station of the State. vi) The Commission appointed for the purpose should be clothed with

the power to dispose of all the assets belonging to the Saradha Group

and/or their agents and/or their benamdars in case Commission

would be satisfied the money invested by the said agent and/or

benamdars for acquiring such property was the money collected from

the depositors in the collective investment scheme floated by Saradha

Group. vii) The Commission should be clothed with the power to have

appropriate mode of recovery of debts on behalf of the Saradha Group

from its debtors and add the proceeds to the fund to be created for

this purpose. viii) All bank accounts belonging to Saradha Groups and/or their

sister concerns, the personal bank accounts of the Directors would

stand attached and the respective banks are restrained by an order of

injunction from allowing anyone to operate such account unless

authorised by the Commission save and except for the purpose of

depositing money in the said account. ix) The Commission would be at liberty to open a bank account in any

Nationalised bank for the purpose to be operated by the persons to be

authorised by the Chairman in that behalf. x) The Commission would prepare a list of depositors upon verification

of the respective claims. xi) Upon a list being prepared in terms of Clause (X) above

Commission would prorate distribute the amounts to the depositors in

the manner as it would feel it prudent. The directions with regard to investigations as directed above, would

relate to the State Agency and State Agency only. The other part with

regard to recovery and distribution was nothing but a

recommendation to the State leaving it to the State to extend such

power to the Commission if they feel like. We abundantly make it clear, none of the above directions would

relate to the Commission that would have a different field of travel.

We would however hope and trust, State would rise to the occasion

and seriously consider the recommendations made by us herein

enhancing the power of the Commission. We would humbly request the Commission with all humility, if they

could provide us quarterly status report by the Secretary of the
 Commission to the Registrar General of this Court so that we could

apprise ourselves what further steps are taken in this regard. We

once again make it clear; this is our sincere appeal to the Commission

and must not be construed otherwise. All the three petitions be clubbed together and be kept out of the list

for the time being and be placed as a "Specially Assigned Matter"