1st May, 2024

SASHIKANTA MISHRA, J. These Bail Applications have arisen out of the same

 case and involve common questions of fact and law. As

 such, all the three applications were heard together and are

 being disposed of by this common order. 2. The petitioner, in BLAPL No. 12151 of 2023, Nirod

 Kumar Das is in custody since 06.08.2023 in connection

 with EOW P.S. Case No. 22 of 2023 dated 28.07.2023

 corresponding to C.T. case No. 9 of 2023 pending in the

 Court of learned Presiding Officer, Designated Court (under

 the OPID Act ) at Cuttack for the alleged Commission of

 Offence under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of IPC read Page 2 of 19 with Section 4 , 5 and 6 of Price Chits and Money Circulation

Schemes (Banning) Act 1978 (PCMCS) and Section 6 of

OPID Act. 3. The petitioner, in BLAPL No. 11245 of 2023, Ratnakar

Palai is in custody since 15.08.2023 in connection with the

aforementioned case. 4. The Petitioner, in BLAPL No. 14539 of 2023, is in

custody since 09.08.2023 also in connection with the

aforementioned case. Prosecution Case 5. The Inspector of Police (EOW Bhubaneswar) Rina

Behera lodged an FIR on 28.07.2023 before the S.P. EOW on

the basis of an inquiry conducted by her against Nirod

Kumar Das, Gurtej Singh @ Sidhu and one David Gaze. The

inquiry related to alleged dubious investment into crypto

currency by the name STA Token through Ponzi Scheme in

Bhadrak District of Odisha. Said Nirod Kumar Das is

allegedly acting as District Head and Gurtej Singh @ Sidhu

is the Country Head of STA (Solar Techno Alliance), the

company that launched the crypto currency in the name of

STA Token. The other petitioner, Ratnakar Palai, is a former Page 3 of 19 Member of the STA. It is alleged that the Petitioners have

been targeting private individuals and encouraging them to

invest in crypto currency STA Token by building a network

of members. The investors are asked to recruit further

investors on payment of interest or bonus which is expected

to increase correspondingly to the number of members

added by them. The Company, STA (Solar Techno Alliance),

is a Netherland based company which launched STA Token

over Block Chain in Binance Crypto exchange in 2022. The

website of the company indicates that it aims to promote

Solar Energy worldwide and to replace traditional payment

systems. It is further alleged that the website is a dubious

one as it does not give any details of the company and its

directors. Further inquiry revealed that accused Nirod

Kumar Das was introduced to STA through one Sushil Tudu

of Jharkhand who convinced him to invest in STA for getting

quick benefits by way of commission by enrolling others

under his network in addition to the daily income through

his own investment. Nirod Kumar Das invested Rs. 3,000/-

in STA but has earned more than 18 crores of rupees/- by

enrolling several persons. He convinced local persons Page 4 of 19 through public meetings to join his network by sending

them referral links. As such, thousands of persons are

acting as members of STA Token in Bhadrak District. The

public meetings are said to be presided by the accused

Gurtej Singh @ Sidhu. It was further ascertained during

inquiry that two accounts standing in the name of Nirod

kumar Das have credit of Rs. 5,03,15,462.59/- and

Rs.10,39,74,794.30/- respectively between 1st January,

2022 till date. Several cash deposits were also made into the

accounts which is believed to be the unaccounted money

deposited by investors through him. It was also found that

the offices of STA are opened in different districts and more

than 1,000 members have been enrolled in each district.

Further, STA Tokens have been used in Bhadrak market as

a medium of exchange/currency to buy daily use items. It is

thus alleged that having regard to the modus operandi

adopted, the transaction is nothing but a Ponzi Scheme.

Since virtual currency cannot be used as a legal tender, the

use of STA token in Indian market is contrary to law. 6. Basing on such FIR, the aforementioned P.S. Case was

registered and investigation was taken up. In course of Page 5 of 19 investigation the petitioners were taken to custody on

different dates as mentioned above, their bank accounts

were frozen and several documents were seized, besides

recording of the statements of several persons. After

completion of investigation, preliminary charge-sheet has

been submitted on 30.11.2023 keeping the investigation

open under Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. 7. I have heard Mr. Asok Mohanty and Mr. Milan

Kanungo, learned Senior Counsel appearing respectively for

petitioner Gurtej Singh @ Sidhu and Nirod Kumar Das,

being assisted by Mr. S.K.Lenka and B.P. Rath respectively.

I have also heard Mr. D.K. Acharya learned Counsel for the

Petitioner, Mr. Ratnakar Palai. I have also heard Mr. B.

Bhuyan learned counsel appearing for the State in OPID

matters. Submissions 8. Mr. Mohanty, learned Senior Counsel would argue that

the entire case of the prosecution is based on

misunderstanding and erroneous perception of the

investigating agency as regards the use of crypto currency.

Moreover, the essential ingredients of the alleged offences Page 6 of 19 are not made out in the least. The only allegation against

the Petitioner is that a sum of Rs. 2,86,058/- was

transferred to his account by co-accused Nirod Kumar Das.

That apart, there is absolutely no evidence to show that the

petitioner had induced any person to trade in crypto

currency or to make any investment therein. There is also

no evidence to show that any amount was paid to him by

any investors. In any event, crypto currency is also legal

tender as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Internet

Mobile Association of India V. Reserve Bank of India.1

Mr. Mohanty concludes his arguments by submitting that,

in any case, charge-sheet has already been submitted and

therefore, there is no justification to detain the petitioners in

custody any longer. 9. Mr. Kanungo, learned Senior Counsel would argue that

the prosecution has been launched against the petitioner on

a misconception regarding the crypto currency and its

transactions. He also argues that the essential ingredients of

the alleged offences are not made out. In this regard Mr.

Kanungo would argue that crypto currency is not 'money' 1 2020 SCC online SC 275 Page 7 of 19 within the meaning of Section 2(b) of Price Chits and Money

Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978 (PCMCS) for which

the offences under Section 4 , 5 and 6 of said Act are not

made out. Similarly, according to Mr. Kanungo, the

allegation of commission of offence under Section 6 of the

OPID Act is also misconceived, since the amount invested by

the individuals to trade in crypto currency cannot be treated

as 'deposit' within the meaning of Section 2-b of the OPID

Act. As regards the IPC offences also, Mr. Kanungo makes

similar submissions and contends that there is absolutely

no proof to show that the petitioner had acted fraudulently

or with the specific intent to cheat any person. Mr. Kanungo

further argues that the petitioner never promised returns to

any person which would be evident from the statements of

the witnesses examined by the I.O. most of whom have

stated that being attracted by the high lifestyle maintained

by others, they were induced to invest. No one has stated

that he was directly or indirectly induced by the petitioner to

deposit. Explaining the working of the scheme, Mr. Kanungo

submits that the amount credited is on a person to platform

basis (P 2 P) and is kept in a Trust Wallet in a secured Page 8 of 19 manner. It is not open to any person, other than the

investor, to deal with such amount. 10. Mr. D. Acharya, learned Counsel appearing for the

Petitioner, Ratnakar Palai, argues that the Supreme Court

in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra) has categorically held that as on date, virtual

currencies are not banned by the Reserve Bank of India or

the Government of India. Mr. Acharya also makes similar

arguments as learned Senior Counsel referred above . 11. Mr. Bhuyan learned State Counsel appearing in OPID

matters would argue that the transactions effected by the

petitioners is nothing but a Ponzi Scheme in the name of

crypto currency. The entire modus operandi of the

petitioners is to lure ordinary people into making

investments on the promise of getting attractive returns in

future. The petitioners have cleverly manipulated their

operations only to cheat the Investigating Agencies, but

investigation has clearly revealed that they were running a

Ponzi Scheme. Mr. Bhuyan further contends that unlike

other crypto currencies, the investor in STA Token does not

have full control over his wallet since it is dependent upon Page 9 of 19 addition of members and further that the money in the

wallet would remain locked for minimum 20 months. Mr.

Bhuyan further submits that investigation revealed that the

scheme was being operated as a pyramid structure, wherein

persons like the petitioners were placed at different levels of

the structure depending on the money earned by them

through bonus, commission, royalty etc. All the persons

investing money in STA Tokens have been assured of higher

returns which is not to be found in case of other crypto

currencies. In the process, huge amounts were collected

from different persons. Analysis 12. I have heard the rival submissions at length and have

perused the materials on record including the case diary

produced by learned counsel for OPID carefully. A bare

reading of the FIR would suggest that the petitioners,

particularly Nirod Kumar Das has been alleged to have

convinced local persons through public meetings to join his

network by sending them referral links. As such, thousands

of people are said to have become active members of STA

Token in Bhadrak district itself. The statements of several Page 10 of 19 such persons have been recorded by the I.O. during

investigation. It would be relevant to refer to statements of

some such witnesses in order to appreciate the prosecution

allegations. One Suvendu Behera states that being induced

by Nirod Kumar Das, he has become a member in STA since

23.04.2023 by investing Rs. 1 lakh/-. Further he was asked

by Nirod Kumar Das to spread STA network. He has

explained the scheme in a following words;- He also says that the upline members have been living a

royal life with big bungalows and landed properties. Page 11 of 19 13. Similar statements has been given by Keshab Behera,

Rama Chandra Nayak, Siba Prasad Panda, Prafulla Kumar

Behera and others. Not a single person so examined has

stated to have paid any amount to Nirod Kumar Das nor

about any promise being made by said Nirod Kumar Das of

getting higher returns on such investment by him. The only

thing that is evident from a reading of the statements is that

the several persons were asked to enroll new members

which would enhance their earnings. According to the

informant, the modus operandi is as follows;- 14. The amount invested by the new members is kept in a

Trust Wallet, which is apparently locked up for 20 months

and thereafter is accessible to the investor. In case he

arranges more members, he is paid commission, bonus etc. 15. Accepting the prosecution case as such, this Court is

unable to appreciate as to how this act can constitute any of

the offences alleged. As is evident, the members of the

public who participated in trading in crypto currency appear

to have done so on their own free will and volition as also

being impressed by the lavish lifestyle led by persons like

Nirod Kumar Das etc. There is not a whisper of allegation

that said Nirod Kumar Das, or the other petitioners had

promised them higher returns on their investment as

usually happens in case of a Ponzi Scheme. Insofar as the Price Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978 (PCMCS) is concerned, Section 2(b) thereof defines

money as follows;- STA Token, on the other hand, is a crypto currency

which is purchased by the investors by downloading Page 13 of 19 applications from Google Play Store and Binance Crypto

Exchange and thereafter, kept in their respective Trust

Wallet. Therefore, STA Token cannot be said to be money

within the meaning of the Act. Such being the case,

naturally, the offences under Section 4 , 5 and 6 of the said

Act would prima facie not be made out. 16. Coming to the offence under Section 6 of the OPID Act

is seen that Section 2(b) of the Act defines 'deposit' as

follows;- Thus, the essential ingredient required to invoke Section 6 of the OPID Act is that some money must have been

deposited either in lump sum or by installments with the

financial establishment. In the instant case, as already

stated STA Token, being a crypto currency, is not deposited

in any financial establishment but is kept secure in a Trust

Wallet. This appears to have been interpreted as 'deposit'

within meaning of section 2(b) of the OPID Act and sought to

be projected as a Ponzi Scheme. There is an essential

difference between deposits in a Ponzi scheme and trading Page 14 of 19 in crypto currency. In the case of Internet and Mobile

Association of India (supra), the Supreme Court held that

the ban imposed by RBI on use of digital currency is

unreasonable and therefore, struck it down. It was held that

virtual currencies are valid mode of payments in the

exchange of goods and services and do not violate the

provisions of Payments Settlements and Systems Act, 2007 .

The following observations made by the Supreme Court are

worthy of note;- 17. It is clear that mere dealing in crypto currency cannot

be treated as illegal in any manner. Thus, the offence under Section 6 of OPID Act is also not made out. 18. As regards the IPC offences, in view of what has been

narrated hereinbefore, it is evident that the petitioners can

only be said to have attempted to convince members of the

public to trade in crypto currency STA Token. There is

nothing on record to show that they had dishonestly

induced any person to deliver any property to them. In other

words, there is no evidence whatsoever of any money being

transferred from any person to the petitioners. The

Petitioners may have earned commission/bonus from the

company but that by itself cannot be partake the nature of

dishonest earning. The methodology adopted being person

to platform (P 2 P), it cannot be said that the petitioners had

cheated any person particularly in view of the fact that any

amount invested by any person remains secure in his or her Page 16 of 19 Trust Wallet. Thus, the offence under Section 420 does not

appear, prima facie, to be made out. There is no evidence

that any documents, records etc. were forged, manipulated,

manufactured etc. so as to attract the offences under Section 467 / 468 / 471 of IPC. Summation 19. From the forgoing narration, it is clear that the

petitioners were dealing with crypto currency which, as on

date is not illegal. There is no evidence to show that they

had convinced members of the general public to invest

money on promise of high returns rather it is borne out from

the materials on record that the investors acted on their

own volition being influenced by the lavish lifestyles enjoyed

by the petitioners and similarly placed persons. There is no

evidence to show that any person was defrauded or that his

investment was misappropriated by the petitioner. On the

contrary, there is evidence that the amounts invested are

kept secure in a Trust Wallet of the investor without any

scope of interference or manipulation by any other person.

Further crypto currency is not money within the meaning of Price Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act Page 17 of 19 1978 (PCMCS). Finally, the investment made by the general

public in crypto currency cannot partake the nature of

deposit within the meaning of OPID Act . Thus, there is no

evidence of a definite offence having been committed. The

maxim nullum sine crimen lege meaning there can be no

crime without law applies to the case at hand. It is needless

to mention that there is an absence of a proximal nexus

between the petitioners and the alleged offences. In the

considered view of this Court, therefore, detention of the

petitioners in custody, particularly when charge-sheet has

already been submitted, appears to be unjustified.

Conclusion 20. In the result the bail applications are allowed. Let the

petitioners be released on bail on such terms and conditions

as the Court below may deem and fit proper to impose

including the following conditions;- (i) They shall deposit their passports if any in

 the Court below at that time of their release. (iii). They shall make themselves available as and

 when required by the IO. (iv). They shall appear before the Court below on

 each date of posting of the case without

 seeking representation. 21. The BLAPLs are accordingly disposed of. ............................... Sashikanta Mishra,
 Judge

 Orissa High Court, Cuttack. The 1st May, 2024/ Monalisa Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: MONALISA SWAIN Designation: JUNIOR STENOGRAPHER Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Odisha
Date: 03-May-2024 14:47:19 Page 19 of 19