­ 1. This is the suit filed by the plaintiff against the defendant for the re­
lief of permanent and mandatory injunction. AVERMENTS OF THE PLAINT: 2. Succinctly, it is the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff is the
proprietorship concern and defendant is a banking company incorporated and
registered under the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 . Plaintiff firm has been
engaged in the services of providing specialized services to its clients. The
defendant bank had also availed the specialized services of the plaintiff firm for
providing manpower and data inputting. 3. In consideration of the services provided by the plaintiff firm to the
defendant bank, the defendant bank had to pay agreed amount to the plaintiff firm.
The said agreement between the plaintiff and the defendant bank was however,
terminated by the defendant bank in the year 2014. The defendant bank had issued
a notice dated 05.06.2014, whereby terminating the said agreement, due to an
alleged scam. The defendant bank had also made the false and baseless
accusations on the plaintiff for being allegedly involvement in the alleged scam.
However, the plaintiff had rebutted and denied all the false and baseless
Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 allegations in his reply to letter dated 05.06.2014. 4. The plaintiff had further called the defendant to release the balance
payment in lieu of services rendered by the plaintiff. However, the defendant
bank made the balance payment to the plaintiff on 22.08.2014 and the said amount
was credited in the plaintiff's current account bearing no. 04672350000019
maintained by its proprietor, Sh. Anil Mahajan with the defendant bank at their
Hauz Khas Branch, New Delhi for its business as well as professional needs. 5. On enquiry from the bank official, regarding the reason for which the
plaintiff's account has been blocked, to his utter shock, he was informed that since
the account was not operated for 6 months, therefore, the account has been
blocked. The plaintiff was thereafter, advised to fill and submit the KYC details
and then only his account will get operational again. The plaintiff thereafter,
submitted the KYC details in the prescribed form. The plaintiff was told by the
bank official that his account will get operational in 4­6 working days. However,
when the account of the plaintiff was not unblocked by the defendant bank even
after 15 days from the submission of KYC details, the plaintiff again approached
the defendant bank official at their Hauz Khas Branch. 6. The bank official then informed the plaintiff that an amount of Rs.
4,38,2019 out of the total balance amount lying in the account has been held by
the bank's head office in Mumbai. The plaintiff was very shocked and surprised to
be informed that. The plaintiff thereafter made enquiries for the reason at to why
the said amount has been held by the bank officials and also took out the statement
of his bank account, which showed that no such amount has been held by the
bank, though the status of the account showed to be blocked. 7. The plaintiff then again approached the bank official with his bank
Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 statement to inquire about the status of his bank account, however, the said bank
official failed to give any satisfactory answer and explanation for not unblocking
the account of the plaintiff. The defendant bank had never served any notice and
never called the plaintiff for seeking his response on the said actions of the
defendant bank for blocking the account of the plaintiff. 8. After persistent enquiries by the plaintiff from the bank officials, the
plaintiff was informed that the bank account of the plaintiff was blocked due to the
scam that had taken place in respect of DHBVN (Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran
Nigam) Ltd. However, the plaintiff had already given his detailed response to the
defendant bank in reply to their notice dated 05.06.2014, whereby the plaintiff had
denied any kind of involvement in the said alleged scam. 9. The plaintiff was then constrained to send a legal notice dated
18.05.2015 to the defendant bank at its head office and the branch office
respectively. The plaintiff vide notice dated 18.05.2015 had called upon the bank
to re­activate the plaintiffs bank account. However, the defendant bank instead of
re­activating the plaintiff bank account had sent a false and frivolous reply to the
notice of the plaintiff. The malafide and illegal act of the defendant bank has
deprived the plaintiff from his hard­earned money and in turn has deprived him
from carrying out his work and earn his livelihood. Having left with no other
option, present suit was filed seeking relief in paragraph no. 1 of the judgment.
AVERMENTS OF THE WRITTEN STATEMENT: Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 ISSUES: (iii) Ex.PW1/3 i.e. Copy of email between plaintiff and defendant. (iv) Ex.PW1/3A i.e. Certificate under Section 65 B Indian Evidence Act. (v) Ex. PW1/1D i.e. copy of RTI reply dated 27.04.2018 received from PS Central
Faridabad in response to RTI supply dated 27.04.2018.
DEFENCE EVIDENCE: Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 FINDINGS: 04672350000019 with the defendant bank at the Hauz Khas branch, New Delhi. In
order to prove his case, plaintiff has relied upon copies of letters and e­mail
exchanged between plaintiff and defendant which show that defendant had
blocked the account of the plaintiff firm as allegedly the employees of the plaintiff
firm were involved in fraudulent activities at DHBVN. The plaintiff had taken a
strong objection to this allegation and sent letter dated 19.06.2014 and e­mails to
the defendant bank requesting them to unblock the account of the plaintiff firm,
however same was of no avail. RTI reply dated 27.04.2018 placed on record
reflects that cancellation report has already been filed in FIR no. 762/16 and the

Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 investigating authority has no objection if the account is unblocked. 18. On the contrary, defendant did not file its written statement. It also
failed to lead any evidence in support of its case. It also failed to cross examine
PW­1 on relevant points. There is nothing on record which casts any doubt on the
testimony of PW­1. No substantial reason has been put forth for blocking the
account of the plaintiff firm. Further, cancellation report has already been filed in
FIR no. 762/16 and as per the documents placed on record by the plaintiff, the
investigating authority has no objection if the account is unblocked. Thus, no
purpose would be served if current account of the plaintiff is kept blocked. The
testimony of the PW­1 against the defendant has gone unchallenged,
uncontroverted and unrebutted with regard to the correctness of these documents
and consequent liability of defendant to unblock the current account of the
plaintiff. Accordingly, issue no. 1 and 2 are decided in favour of the plaintiff. 19. Hence, in view of findings of all the above issues, the suit of the
plaintiff against defendant is hereby decreed with costs to the effect that
defendant is directed to unblock the bank account bearing no. 04672350000019
maintained by the plaintiff bank at their Hauz Khas branch, New Delhi with
immediate effect. Again, defendant is restrained from holding any part of the
payment lying in the said bank account of the plaintiff without due process of law. 20. Let decree sheet be prepared. 21. File be consigned to record room after due formalities. Page no.7 of 7

 (Neha Sharma)
 CJ­01/(South) Saket Court/New Delhi
 Perfect Solutions Vs. HDFC Bank CS SCJ 84224/2016 Pronounced in open court: