1. The Accused, who stand convicted for offence punishable

under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to

death, by Sessions Judge, Beed, vide judgment and order dated

12th December, 2024, in Sessions Case No. 7 of 2021, has filed an

appeal, challenging his conviction and sentence. The Sessions

Judge, under Section 366 of the Criminal Procedure Code, has

submitted a Reference, to this Court for confirmation of the death

sentence. The confirmation case and the Appeal filed by the

Accused are, therefore, being decided by this common judgment. 2. Facts, which are necessary for decision of the confirmation

case and the Criminal Appeal may briefly be stated thus - PW-1, informant, Sandeep Kokane, brother of the accused,

lodged First Information Report (Exhibit-52) on 24 th May, 2020,

stating that 16 years before, his brother, Accused Santosh

married with Sangita Dattatraya Wanarase. Three children,

Mayuresh (12 years), Siddhesh (10 years) and Kalpesh (8 years)

were born out of the said wedlock. They separately reside as his

neighbours at Takwa Colony, Shukrawar Peth, Beed. Santosh was

doing business of selling snacks (kurkure), food articles. He used

to go at 8.00 in the morning and used to return at 10.00 to 10.30
 {3} CC 1-25.doc

in the night. Due to corona lock down, Santosh was staying at

home. Since the lock down, Santosh realized that his wife Sangita

used to talk on phone with somebody for longer time, because of

that there used to be quarrels between them. Sangita, wife of

Santosh, left home prior to 20 days. Thereafter, after 5 days, it

was learnt that she was at the house of Vishal Wadmare at Barshi

Naka, Peth Beed. On receiving the said information, his brother

Santosh went to Barshi Naka, Peth Beed and brought Sangita

home and gave her understanding. On 24th May, 2020, at about 12.00 to 12.30 noon, he came

out of the house on road. At that time, Baliram Teke and Sachin

Jagdale were standing on the road, in front of his door. They

asked him as to where he was going. He told that there was

quarrel between his brother and sister in law and, therefore, he is

going to Peth Beed Police Station. Then they asked him

whereabouts of his brother Santosh and sister in law Sangita. He

told them that, his brother has gone to Peth Beed Police Station

and sister in law Sangita and her children were not seen outside,

since morning and the house seems to be closed. Thereafter, he,

along with Baliram Teke and Sachin Jagdale went inside the

house of his brother and they saw Sangita and her son lying

there having bleeding injuries. He, therefore, went to Peth Beed

Police Station. At that time, his brother Santosh was standing
 {4} CC 1-25.doc

outside Peth Beed Police Station. When he asked Santosh about

the incident, Santosh told him that on that day, at about 4.00 in

the morning, he killed his wife Sangita and two sons, Siddhesh

and Kalpesh by assaulting them with wooden bat, stone and

killed Kalpesh by drowning him in the barrel of water. Therefore,

he took Santosh inside the Police Station and handed him over in

the custody of police. On the basis of the first information report (Exhibit-52),

Crime No. 150 of 2020 for the offence punishable under section

302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered on 24 th May, 2020 at

22.35 hours and the investigation was handed over to Police

Inspector, Shri Patil (PW-15). Spot Panchanama (Exhibit-30) was

conducted in the presence of PW-2. The Investigating Officer

recorded statements of witnesses on 25th May, 2020 and arrested

the accused vide arrest Panchanama Exhibit-107. During investigation, PW-15 collected CCTV footage

wherein accused is seen coming to the spot of the incident and

returning back from there at the relevant time. On completion of

investigation, charge sheet was filed and the case was

committed to the Sessions Court. Charge under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was

framed against the Accused. He abjured his guilt and claimed to
 {5} CC 1-25.doc

be tried. Prosecution, in support of its case, examined 15

witnesses. Trial Court found the Accused guilty and hence

convicted and sentenced him as aforesaid. Hence, the present

Appeal and the Confirmation Case. 3. Learned Advocate for the Accused assailed the impugned

judgment and order of conviction contending that, admittedly,

this is a case of circumstantial evidence and the prosecution has

utterly failed to prove the complete chain of circumstances. Vital

links from the chain of circumstances are missing in the

prosecution evidence. According to him, presence of the

Accused, at the spot of the incident, in the fateful night, is not

proved by the prosecution. Except CCTV footage, which is

disbelieved by the Trial Court, there is no other evidence on

record to prove that the accused was present at his house in the

fateful night, more so, in view of the evidence of PW-14 Rajesh

Satpute. He submits that the prosecution has failed to prove

motive for the commission of the crime. Merely because there

used to be quarrels between the Accused and his deceased wife,

it cannot be concluded that the Accused had motive to eliminate

his wife and two sons. The Accused had filed missing complaint

of Sangita and Kalpesh and on finding her at the house of PW-13

Vishal Wadmare, he had taken her back. If he had any doubt on

the chastity of Sangita, he would not have brought her back with
 {6} CC 1-25.doc

him from the house of Vishal Wadmare. Therefore, the

Prosecution has failed to prove motive on the part of the Accused

to commit the crime in question. 4. He submits that, the FIR is belatedly registered, which

creates doubt about the prosecution case. PW-1, informant has

not supported the prosecution case and, therefore, the

prosecution has not proved the extra judicial confession made by

the Accused. Similarly, PW-14 Rajesh, brother in law of the

Accused has also not supported the prosecution case, he,

however, has specifically deposed that, in the fateful night, the

Accused, along with his son Mayuresh, had been to his house and

slept there. In this view of the matter, presence of the Accused at

his own house, where the incident has taken place, is doubtful

and the Trial Court has erred in holding that, the Accused was

present at the time of the incident at his own house. He submits

that, when the prosecution has claimed that wife and two

children were killed during the night time, how come that nobody

from the neighbourhood have heard any noise. He, therefore,

submits that the prosecution has failed to prove that, the

Accused was present at the spot of the incident in the fateful

night. Hence, the Accused may be acquitted. 5. In support of his submissions, he relied on the following
 {7} CC 1-25.doc

citations : (MANU/MH/1929/2002)
 p. "Lalchand Cheddilal Yadav V/s Stte of Maharashtra 2000 Bom CR
 (Cri.) 585 Bombay High Court
 q. "Anandrao Dhondiba Falke V/s State of Maharashtra" 2000 (sup)
 Bom C. R. 765 6. Per contra, learned APP supported the impugned judgment
 {8} CC 1-25.doc

and order of conviction and imposition of death sentence by the

Trial Court. He submitted that homicidal deaths are not disputed

by the Accused and they are proved in medical evidence. Motive,

that, Sangita had illicit relations with Vishal Wadmare is proved

by the prosecution. PW-8, PW-10, PW-11, PW-13 have proved the

fact that, the Accused was having suspicion about the character

of Sangita and that she had illicit relations with Vishal Wadmare.

It is submitted that, information given by the deceased to PW-13

about beatings given by the Accused to her and her

apprehension that the Accused will kill her and her children, is

admissible under section 6 of the Indian Evidence Act. Dead

bodies of the 3 victims were found in the house of the accused.

Initially, bodies of only Sangita and Siddhesh were noticed by

PW-1, however, after hearing extra judicial confession of the

Accused, it was realized that Kalpesh is drowned in water barrel.

It is submitted that relevant portions from the FIR are proved in

the evidence of PW-4, who registered the FIR. By relying on

"Govardhan and Another V/s State of Chhatisgarh 1", it is

submitted that the FIR has been proved by the statement of PW-

4 and merely because PW-1 has turned hostile, it cannot be said

that the FIR would lose its relevancy and cannot be looked into

for any purpose. It is submitted that, the Accused claims to have

stayed at the house of PW-14, which as per the Google map, is at

1 (2011) 2 SC 198
 {9} CC 1-25.doc

a distance of only 350 meters from the spot of the incident i.e.

house of the Accused. This Court can take judicial notice of the

distance on the Google map. Even PW-14 has admitted that, the

Accused and Mayuresh were sleeping in hall and he went to sleep

in the bedroom. In his statement recorded under section 164 of

the Criminal Procedure Code, he has stated that when he woke

up in the morning, he saw the Accused coming towards his house

in frightened condition and when asked, the Accused told him

that he had gone for a morning walk. Accused has failed to give

any explanation under section 106 of the Evidence Act as to in

which circumstances deaths of Sangita, Siddhesh and Kalpesh

have taken place. Blood stains were found on the clothes of the

Accused. All these circumstances prove the involvement of the

Accused in the crime. 7. Learned APP submitted that, the Trial Court has erred in

rejecting the evidence of CCTV footage on the ground that

certificate under section 65 B of the Evidence Act is not given by

the competent person. According to him, PW-4 who is specially

trained officer in that behalf, who has downloaded the CCTV

footage in the memory cards, has given the certificates. He

submitted that certificate under section 65 B of the Act can be

issued by person, who has extracted CCTV footage. Since he is

expert in that field, by relying on the words, "a person occupying
 {10} CC 1-25.doc

a responsible official position in relation to operation of the

relevant device or the management of the relevant activities

(whichever is appropriate) shall be evidence of any matter stated

in the certificate; and for the purposes of this subsection it shall

be sufficient for a matter to be stated to the best of the

knowledge and belief of the person stating it", used in sub section 4 of section 65 B of the Act, he submits that since PW-4

was holding responsible official position, he was entitled to issue

certificate under section 65 B of the Evidence Act. Therefore, said

evidence ought to have been accepted by the Trial Court. CCTV

footage is also proved in the evidence of PW-3 Pancha, in whose presence CCTV footage was downloaded on the memory cards. Exhibit-65. The report of the forensic lab about the memory cards

on which CCTV footage was downloaded, also supports the

prosecution case, since in all the three CCTV footage, the

accused is seen coming towards the house and going towards

the house of PW-14 at the time of the incident. This is one of the

strong circumstance proving involvement of the Accused in the

present crime. 8. He submitted that, even if it is accepted for the sake of

arguments that the FIR, was registered belatedly, the same may

be due to the lapse on the part of the Investigating Officer. But

that would not help the Accused, in view of other circumstances
 {11} CC 1-25.doc

proved on record by the prosecution. It is submitted that, PW-14

has admitted that his statement under section 164 of the

Criminal Procedure Code was recorded and after reading, he

signed it. This statement corroborates prosecution case. It is

further submitted that in reply to the questions under section

313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Accused has admitted

that there were illicit relations between deceased Sangita and

Vishal Wadmare. This corroborates prosecution case that the

Accused had motive to kill Sangita. By relying on following

citations, he submitted that no interference is warranted in the

judgment of conviction recorded by the Trial Court and this is a fit

case to confirm the death sentence awarded by the Trial Court. i. "Vijay Singh and Another V/s The State of Uttarakhand" (Criminal
 Appeal No. 122 of 2023)

 ii. Govardhan and Another V/s The State of Chhatisgarh" (2025) 3
 SCC 378

 iii. Premsing V/s State of NCT of Delhi" 2023 Live Law (SC ) 2

 iv. Anees V/s State Government of NCT" (Criminal Appeal No. 437 of
 2015) 9. With the assistance of the learned Advocate for the

Accused and the learned APP, we have carefully perused the

record. 10. Present case is based on circumstantial evidence. The law,
 {12} CC 1-25.doc

on the cases based on circumstantial evidence, is very succinctly

enumerated by the Apex Court in "Sharad Birdichand Sarda

V/s State of Maharashtra2". Relevant observations of their

Lordships are as follows : There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction
 between 'may be proved' and 'must be or should be
 proved' as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao
 Bobade v. State of Maharashtra 1973CriLJ1783 where
 the following observations were made: 2 AIR 1984 1622
 {13} CC 1-25.doc

 (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the
 one to be proved, and

 (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to
 leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent
 with the innocence of the accused and must show that in
 all human probability the act must have been done by the
 accused. 153. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the
 panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence". 11. We will have to consider the prosecution case, in the light

of aforesaid guiding principles. From the material placed on

record, it appears that the prosecution mainly relied on the

following circumstances: 12. In order to deal effectively with the rival contentions raised

before us, by the learned Advocate for the Accused and the

learned APP and also looking at the magnitude of the crime, it

would be appropriate to refer to the evidence of the prosecution

witnesses. 13. Post mortem on the dead bodies of wife and two sons of

accused came to be conducted by PW-12 Dr. Dipali Gavhane. She

noticed following injuries on the dead body;

External Injuries:- greenish blackish colour, (vi) fracture left and right fronto parietal bone,
 {15} CC 1-25.doc

Internal Injuries:- She opined that death of deceased Sangita was due to

head injury. Post Mortem report of Sangita is at Exhibit-84.

Provisional post mortem cum death certificate of Sangita is at

Exhibit-85. She therefore stated that death was homicidal in

nature. She deposed that internal and external injuries

mentioned by her can be caused by article 1 stone and article 2 bat. Post mortem on the dead body of Siddesh Kokane also

came to be conducted by PW-12 Dr. Dipali Gavhane. She noticed

following injuries; External Injuries:- Post Mortem on the dead body of Kalpesh also came to be

conducted by PW-12 Dr. Dipali Gavhane. She noticed following

injuries; External Injuries:- Internal Injuries:- 14. In the cross, Dr. Dipali stated that size of injury is not

mentioned in respect of injury No. 2, 3, and 5 in column No. 17 in

post mortem notes Exhibit-81. All the injuries mentioned in

column No. 17 cannot be caused by one blow. To cause these

injuries it is not necessary to give five blows, but more than one

blow is required. It may not be necessary that a person may

shout if a blow was given to him. She volunteered that if a death

blow is given the person may not shout. Shouting of a person

would depend on the part of body where first blow was given.

Her attention was drawn to injury no. 2 and 3 mentioned in

column No. 17, she deposed that both fractures can be caused

by one stroke. Injury no. 2 can be caused if a person is beaten by

flat front portion of the bat. She denied that contusion cannot be

caused by article 2 bat. She denied that if a sleeping person is

assaulted by bat, injuries mentioned in column No. 17 cannot be

caused. If a person is sleeping on his chest injury mentioned at
 {18} CC 1-25.doc

Sr. No. 5 in column no. 17 would depend upon the position of his

head. 15. In respect of post mortem notes Exhibit-84, she stated that

weight of stone Article No. 1 may be approximately 15 kg, it is

not possible for a common man to assault with said stone by a

single hand and by throwing like a ball. If a person is assaulted

with stone Article No. 1 size of injury would be more than what is

mentioned by her in injury No. 1 of column No. 17. She denied

that if a person is assaulted either by stone or bat, size of injury

would be more than what is mentioned by her in injury No. 2 of

column no. 17. 16. In respect of post mortem notes Exhibit-87, she stated that

she has not mentioned on left hand where exactly injury No. 1 in

column No. 17 was caused. If a person is assaulted by stone

Article-1, his eyes may pop out and if a person is assaulted by

bat Article-2 his eyes may not pop out, in respect of injury No. 2.

Crush injury may occur if a person is assaulted by stone, and

crush injury may not occur if a person is assaulted by bat in

respect of injury No. 3 and 4. Sudden death may not occur due to

all injuries mentioned in column No. 17. Time of exact death is

not mentioned in the post mortem reports. 17. Accused has not seriously disputed about homicidal death
 {19} CC 1-25.doc

of his wife and two sons. Prosecution by leading evidence of

PW12- Dr. Dipali Gavhane has proved homicidal death of Sangita,

Siddesh and Kalpesh. 18. PW-1 Sandeep Kokane, who is brother of the Accused, is

the informant. He states that Accused Santosh is his brother. His

family consists of his mother, wife and four daughters. Marriage

of the Accused was solemnized with Sangita 16 years back.

Sangita then gave birth to three sons, namely Mayuresh,

Siddhesh and Kalpesh. Accused Santosh, along with his family

members, was living adjacent to his house. His brother Santosh

earlier used to work in a grocery shop. Then prior to few months

back, he started selling snack products. For selling the snacks, he

used to leave home at about 8.00 in the morning and used to

return at about 10.00 to 10.30 in the night. He was not aware

what Santosh was doing during lock down period. On 24th May, 2020, at about 11.00 a.m. he was standing

outside his home. At that time, Sachin Jagdale and Baliram Teke

were chitchatting with him in front of his house. They both

enquired about whereabouts of sons of Santosh. He told them

that he had also not seen them since morning. At the relevant

time, door of the house of Santosh was found closed. As it was

late in the morning, to see what had happened, he, Sachin and
 {20} CC 1-25.doc

Baliram pushed door of the house of Santosh and the door

opened. At that time, they saw Siddhesh, son of Santosh lying in

injured condition and blood oozing from his head. Further,

besides Siddhesh, Sangita was lying in a pool of blood. They,

therefore, came out of the home. He then went to Peth Beed

Police Station. He then informed about the incident, in the police

station. At the relevant time, Santosh was not at home and he

was not knowing his whereabouts. Thereafter, along with one

lady constable, and one male police officer, he again returned to

house of Santosh. He had shown the spot of the incident. Police

then took search of other son of Santosh. At that time, inside the

home of Santosh, in one plastic barrel, body of Kalpesh was

found. Thereupon, as per the say of police, he himself, his wife

and other relatives went to police station. There, police told them

that his brother Sanjay killed Sangita, Kalpesh and Siddhesh.

Police then obtained his signature on one paper. The report

shown to him was bearing his signature. He further states that it did not happen that contents in the

report were correctly recorded by the police as per his say. He

denied having narrated to the police that due to corona and lock

down, Santosh used to remain at his home. He did not inform the

police that Santosh then learned that his wife Sangita used to

frequently talk for a longer period on phone and, therefore,
 {21} CC 1-25.doc

quarrels used to take place between them. He informed the

police that prior to 20 days of the incident, Sangita had left home

and prior to 5 days it was learnt that Sangita was at the house of

Vishal Wadmare at Barshi Naka, Peth Beed and hence, Santosh

went there, convinced Sangita and brought her back. He denied

that on 24th May, 2020, at about 11.00 hours, he came out of the

home, that time, Baliram and Sachin met him and asked him as

to where he was proceeding and on that he told them that

quarrel had taken place between his brother and his wife and

hence, he was going to Peth Beed Police Station and on that both

of them asked him about whereabouts of Santosh and Sangita

and he told them that Santosh went to Peth Beed Police Station.

He denied that thereafter, when he reached Peth Beed Police

Station, Santosh was found present outside the Police Station and

when he asked him about the incident, he told him that on 24 th

May, 2020 at about 04.00 hours, he killed Sangita, Siddhesh and

Kalpesh, by wooden log, bat, stone and further killed Kalpesh by

dropping him in water barrel. He denied that, thereafter, he

himself took Santosh inside the police station and handed him

over to the police. 19. At this stage, PW-1 was declared hostile and the Court

permitted the learned APP to cross-examine him as per Section

154 of the Indian Evidence Act. {22} CC 1-25.doc 20. In the Cross examination conducted by learned APP, he

deposed that - 21. Portions mark 'A', 'B', 'C' and 'D' brought on record in his

cross are as follows; Portion Mark 'A'- Portion Mark 'B'- Portion Mark 'C'- Portion Mark 'D'- 22. Evidence of PW-1 is assailed by the defence submitting that

he is a hostile witness and his evidence should be entirely

discarded. The FIR is belatedly registered and since PW-1 has not

supported the prosecution case, therefore, the prosecution has

failed to prove the extra judicial confession made by the

Accused. 23. Obviously, PW-1, has turned hostile so as to save his

brother i.e. the Accused. However, he has admitted his signature

on the report stating that police obtained his signature on the

blank paper. He further admitted that, when he put signature on

the report, it was not blank, but contents were there. He has also

admitted that he used to put signature on going through

contents of the document. He has denied that the Accused made

extra judicial confession before him. The fact remains that, the

statements made in portion marked "A", "B", "C" and "D", stated

by him in the FIR were confronted to him and, they are proved in
 {25} CC 1-25.doc

the evidence of PW-4, PSO, who has recorded the FIR. In the said

portions, he has narrated the incident as well as the extra judicial

confession made by the Accused, having killed his wife and sons.

Thus, it is clear that first information report (Exhibit-52) is lodged

at the instance of PW-1 and its registration is proved by PW-4

Police Station Officer. 24. In this respect, observations of the Apex Court in

"Govardhan" (supra) may usefully be referred : 25. The FIR is registered on 24th May, 2020 at 22.35 hours.

Law, on the point of evidentiary value of evidence of hostile

witness is well settled. Statement of hostile witness can be relied

on by the Court, to the extent it supports prosecution case and is

corroborated by other evidence. (see "Govardhan" (supra) and

"Shymal Ghosh V/s State of West Bengal 3". We, therefore,

reject the argument of the defence that since PW-1 has not

supported the prosecution case, his evidence and FIR lodged by

him is of no assistance to the prosecution case. 26. We, therefore, are of the considered view that first

information report (Exhibit-52) corroborates the prosecution case

as well as the extra judicial confession made by the accused and

the same also discloses motive of the Accused to commit murder

of his wife and sons. 27. Prosecution has also examined PW-14 Rajesh Satpute,

brother in law of the Accused. He deposed that he stays along

3 (2012) 7 SCC 646
 {27} CC 1-25.doc

with his wife and two children. His wife has two brothers, elder

one is the Accused and the younger one is Sandeep. They stay at

Kala Hanuman Thana, Takwa Colony, Beed. Accused had 3

children, elder one Mayuresh, second was Siddhesh and younger

was Kalpesh. From all the 3, Mayuresh is alive. Sangita - wife of

the Accused died on 24 th May, 2020. In the evening on 23 rd May,

2020, Accused came to his house along with Mayuresh. After

dinner, the Accused slept in the hall of his house and he went to

sleep in the bedroom. Then, he denied that in the morning on

24th May, 2020, he saw Accused Santosh coming in frightened

condition. When he asked him, he told that he is returning from

walk. He denied that the Accused told him that he was going to

police station and went away. He denied that around 1.00 p.m.

he received call of Sandeep who told him that Sangita, Siddhesh

and Kalpesh have been murdered. He denied that when he went

to the house of the Accused, police had come there. He denied

that when in the police station he asked the Accused, he told him

that at 4.15 a.m. he went to his house, there assaulted Sangita

and Siddhesh on their heads by bat and also assaulted Sangita

by stone on her head, she died and thereafter, he assaulted

Kalpesh by hitting bat on his head and thereafter drowned him in

barrel filled with water, he died and thereafter he returned to his

house at 6.00 a.m. PW-14 was declared hostile and was cross
 {28} CC 1-25.doc

examined by the learned APP. In the cross examination conducted by the learned APP,

PW-14 has deposed that after this incident police enquired with

him. Portion Mark 'A' i.e. "Next day on 24.05.2020 at about 06.00

a.m. Santosh Kokane alone was seen coming from outside. At

that time I asked him from where he had come. At that time in a

frightened condition he stated that he had gone for a walk and

he has come back. Thereafter we had tea and breakfast.

Thereafter Santosh Kokane said that he will go to the Police

Station and left alone. In the afternoon at 01.00 hrs., I received a

call from Sandip Kokane that Santosh Kokane's wife Sangita,

children Siddesh and Kalpesh are murdered", was read over to

him. He denied that he had stated so to the police. He further denied having stated portion mark 'B' viz,

"Thereafter when he inquired with Santosh Jaydutt Kokane

resident of Takwa Colony, Shukrwar Peth, Beed, he told that from

my house at about 04.15 hrs he woke up from the sleep and

alone went to Sangita at his house. After reaching home he

assaulted Sangita and Siddesh on head with wooden bat in the

house. Thereafter he hit Sangita on head with stone. That time

they both expired. Thereafter he hit Kalpesh on head with

wooden bat and then drowned him in the water barrel. Then he
 {29} CC 1-25.doc

expired. Thereafter he again returned to his house (PW 14's) at

about 06.00 hrs." He admitted that his statement was recorded in the Court

as per his say. He was shown his statement. On perusal of the

statement, he stated that it was recorded as per his say and he

signed it thereafter. While recording the said statement, he and

Magistrate were only present. He denied that he came to the

Court with his mother in law. He denied that when he went to the

house of the Accused, he saw rope was tied for hanging. He

stated that, when he went to the house of the Accused on 24 th

May, 2020 at that time, the Accused was present in the Police

Station. Complaint was filed by brother of the Accused. He did

not have knowledge that the incident was told by the Accused to

his brother Sandeep, who lodged the first information report. He

denied accompanying Sandeep to the police Station. He admitted

that when the incident happened, there was lock down and due

to the lock down all the works were stopped. He did not know

that there was quarrel between the Accused and the deceased.

He denied that on 25th May, 2020, the Accused had filed N

against Sangita and he had come to his house. He admitted that

since Santosh is his brother in law, he felt that he should not be

punished. {30} CC 1-25.doc 28. In the cross examination, conducted on behalf of the

defense, he stated that, Santosh was in his house from 23 rd May,

2020 till the next day. He did not come to the Court along with

police. He received phone call from police for recording

statement, after that he came to the Court. In the Court, he met

police. He was brought by the police in the Court for recording his

statement. He gave statement in the Court as per say of police.

Accused was wearing same clothes which he was wearing on the

previous day. He had no concern whether the Accused is

convicted or acquitted as per law. 29. Much stress is laid by the defence on the statement made

by this witness that, the Accused had come along with son

Mayuresh on previous evening and slept in his house and the

Accused was at his house till the next morning. It is to be noted

here that PW-14 is brother in law (sister's husband) of the

Accused. He has supported the Accused so as to save him. 30. PW-14 has admitted in his evidence that the Accused and

Mayuresh had slept in hall and he had gone to sleep in the

bedroom. PW-14 has denied having made the statement under

portion marked "A" which is to the effect that, "on next day on 24th

May, 2020, at about 6.00 a.m. Santosh Kokane was seen coming from outside. At

that time, he asked him from where he had come. At that time, in frightened

condition, Accused has stated that he had gone for a walk and he had come
 {31} CC 1-25.doc

back." Thereafter, after breakfast, Santosh stated that he will go

to the police station and left. PW-14 further denied having stated

portion marked "B" i.e. extra judicial confession made by the

Accused to him to the effect that, "from his house at about 4.14 hrs,

Accused woke up from sleep and alone went to Sangita at his house and after

reaching home, he assaulted Sangita and Siddhesh on head with wooden bat in

the house. That time they both expired. Thereafter he hit Kalpesh on head with

wooden bat and then drowned him in the water barrel. Then he expired and he

again returned to PW-14's house at about 6.00 hours". Both these statements, portion marked "A" and "B" are

proved in the evidence of PW-15 vide Exhibits-104-105. 31. It is settled legal proposition that the evidence of a

prosecution witness cannot be rejected in toto merely because

the prosecution chose to treat him as hostile and cross examine

him. The evidence of such witnesses cannot be treated as

effaced or washed off the record altogether but the same can be

accepted to the extent that their version is found to be

dependable on a careful scrutiny thereof. (vide Bhagwan Singh v.

The State of Haryana , AIR 1976 SC 202; Rabindra Kumar Dey v.

State of Orissa , AIR 1977 SC 170; Syad Akbar v. State of

Karnataka , AIR 1979 SC 1848 and Khujji @ Surendra Tiwari v.

State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1991 SC 1853). {32} CC 1-25.doc 32. On the point of appreciation of evidence of hostile witness,

the Apex Court, in "Rameshbhai Mohanbhai Koli and Others

V//s State of Gujrat"4 has made following observations: 33. In "Bhajju V/s State of MP5", the Apex Court held : 34. Statement of this witness under section 164 of the Criminal

Procedure Code is recorded before learned Judicial Magistrate,

First Class. In this statement, he has stated that, the Accused

came to his house at 9.30 p.m. on 24 th May, 2020 for sleeping

along with elder son Mayuresh. They had dinner. Accused and his

son were sleeping in adjacent room. He was not aware as to

when the Accused went to his home. There was quarrel between

the Accused and his wife and they had gone to police station.

The accused told him that the Police had called them in the

morning. When he woke up at 6.00 a.m., that time, the Accused

had come from outside. When he asked the Accused as to where

he had been, that time, Accused told that he had gone for a walk.

Thereafter, they had breakfast and the Accused went to police

station. Sandip Kokane called him and told that Sangita, wife of
 {34} CC 1-25.doc

the Accused and sons Nilesh and Kaplesh have died. Thereafter,

he went to the house of the Accused. Police were present there.

Police enquired with him and thereafter recorded his statement in

the police station. It is pertinent to note that, this witness has admitted that,

his statement under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code

was recorded in the Court, as per his say. When his statement

was shown to him, on perusal of the same, he stated that it was

recorded as per his say and he signed it thereafter. He has also

stated that while recording the said statement, only he and

Magistrate were present. 35. Principles for appreciation of retracted statement under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code are laid down by the

Apex Court in "Vijaya Singh and Another V/s State of

Uttarakhand"6, wherein it is observed ; 27. The jurisprudence concerning a statement under Section 164 CrPC is fairly clear. Such a statement is not considered as a
 substantive piece of evidence, as substantive oral evidence is one
 which is deposed before the Court and is subjected to cross-
 examination. However, Section 157 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872
 makes it clear that a statement under Section 164 CrPC could be
 used for both corroboration and contradiction. It could be used to
 corroborate the testimonies of other witnesses. In R. Shaji v. State of

6 (2025) 3 SCC 378
 {35} CC 1-25.doc

Kerala, this Court discussed the two-fold objective of a statement
under Section 164 CrPC as: The Court also recognized that the need for recording the statement
of a witness under Section 164 CrPC arises when the witness
appears to be connected to the accused and is prone to changing his
version at a later stage due to influence. The relevant para reads
thus: 28. Considering the conceptual requirement of recording a statement
before a Judicial Magistrate during the course of investigation and
the utility thereof, as prescribed in Section 157 of Evidence Act, it
could be observed that a statement under Section 164 , although not a
substantive piece of evidence, not only meets the test of relevancy but
could also be used for the purposes of contradiction and
 {36} CC 1-25.doc

 corroboration. A statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC serves
 a special purpose in a criminal investigation as a greater amount of
 credibility is attached to it for being recorded by a Judicial
 Magistrate and not by the Investigating Officer. A statement under Section 164 CrPC is not subjected to the constraints attached with a
 statement under Section 161 CrPC and the vigour of Section 162 CrPC does not apply to a statement under Section 164 CrPC.
 Therefore, it must be considered on a better footing. However,
 relevancy, admissibility and reliability are distinct concepts in the
 realm of the law of evidence. Thus, the weight to be attached to such
 a statement (reliability thereof) is to be determined by the Court on a
 case-to-case basis and the same would depend to some extent upon
 whether the witness has remained true to the statement or has resiled
 from it, but it would not be a conclusive factor. For, even if a witness
 has retracted from a statement, such retraction could be a result of
 manipulation and the Court has to examine the circumstances in
 which the statement was recorded, the reasons stated by the witness
 for retracting from the statement etc. Ultimately, what counts is
 whether the Court believes a statement to be true, and the ultimate
 test of reliability happens during the trial upon a calculated
 balancing of conflicting versions in light of the other evidence on
 record". 36. It is necessary to mention here that portion marked "A" and

"B" from the statements u/s 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code

of PW-1 (informant) and PW-14 are proved to have been made by

them, in the evidence of PW-4 and PW-15. 37. In " Karamjit Singh v. State (Delhi Admn .)7", it is held

that,
7 (2003) 5 SCC 291
 {37} CC 1-25.doc

 "The testimony of the police personnel should be treated in the
 same manner as the testimony of any other witness and there is
 no principle of law that without corroboration by independent
 witnesses their testimony cannot be relied upon. The
 presumption that a person acts honestly applies as much in
 favour of a police personnel as of other persons and it is not a
 proper judicial approach to distrust and suspect them without
 good grounds. It will all depend upon the facts and
 circumstances of each case and no principle of general
 application can be laid down." 38. In "State Government of NCT of Delhi V/s Sunil and

Another"8, the Apex Court has observed; In the light of aforesaid observations, we do not find any

reason to doubt the testimony of the police witnesses, PW-4 and

PW-15, who have proved portion marked statements of PW-1 and

PW-14 from their previous statements and statements made u/s

164 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 39. In the light of above principles and from the statements,

answers in the cross-examination, previous statement u/s 161 of

PW-1 informant and PW-14 and their statements recorded u/s

164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, before the Magistrate, we

hold that evidence of PW-1 and PW-14 corroborates prosecution

case as well as the extra judicial confession made by the

Accused. 40. PW-5 Vilas Bamne, neighbour of the Accused has not

supported the prosecution case. He denied that on 24 th May,

2020, he got up at 4.30 a.m. for toilet and saw the Accused going

to his house. In the cross examination conducted by the learned APP, he

admitted that his statement was recorded by police. He,

however, denied having stated to the police that "On 24.05.2020

at about 4.30 a.m. in the morning he woke up for urination. At

that time he saw towards house of Santosh Jaydatta Kokane.

Santosh was seen entering his house." (Portion Mark 'A'). When

this statement was confronted to him he denied it. He could not

assign any reason as to why portion marked 'A' is mentioned in

his statement. He being neighbour of the Accused, he can be said to be a

natural witness. Statement of this witness, under portion marked
 {39} CC 1-25.doc

"A" corroborates the prosecution case. As this witness has seen

the Accused entering his house at about 4.30 a.m. 41. PW-6 Sanjay Wadekar, neighbour of the Accused denied

that on 24th May, 2020 at 5.15 a.m. while he was going for a

walk, he saw the Accused coming out of his house. He was

declared hostile. In the cross-examination conducted by the learned APP, he

denied having stated to the police that "On 24.05.2020 at about

5.15 a.m. when I was going out of the house for exercise he saw

Santosh Jaydatta Kokane was going out of his house. I came back

from walk. After coming home I got fresh and stayed home due

to Corona." (Portion Mark 'A'). He could not assign any reason as

to why portion marked 'A' is mentioned in his police statement. Though this witness has not supported the prosecution

case, in view of ratio in "Bhajju" (supra), we hold that his

statement under portion marked "A" that, on 24 th May, 2020, at

about 5.15 a.m. when he was going out of the house for exercise,

he saw the Accused going out of his house, corroborates

prosecution case. 42. PW-7 Sachin Jagdale deposed that he knows Accused. On

24th May, 2020, he was present near his house. Brother of the
 {40} CC 1-25.doc

Accused Sandeep told him that children of the Accused were

missing. He and Sandeep went in the house of the Accused, there

they saw a woman was lying dead. Sandeep went to police

station. Police came there. One boy was missing. He was found in

the water barrel. He and Suresh Chandane took the boy out of

the barrel. In the cross-examination, he admitted that he did not state

to the police that Sandeep Kokane told him that children of the

Accused were missing and that Sandeep Kokane went to police

station. 43. PW-8 Rahul Wanarase, is brother of deceased Sangita. He

deposed that Accused is his brother in law. Sangita married with

the Accused before 16 years. They had 3 children, Mayuresh,

Siddhesh and Kalpesh. Accused was doing marketing of

confectioneries and eatable like kurkure. During the Covid-19

lock down, there were constant quarrels between the Accused

and Sangita. Accused used to call him and used to tell that he

was suspecting character of deceased Sangita. Sangita called

him and told that the Accused has threatened her and she was

having an apprehension that the Accused would kill her and her

children. When he tried to give understanding to the Accused, he

threatened him and also threatened to kill Sangita. Thereafter, he
 {41} CC 1-25.doc

came to know about the incident. He learned that the Accused

committed murder of Sangita, Siddhesh and Kalpesh. Police

enquired with him twice. In the cross-examination, he stated that it was not

mentioned in his statement that as to who gave him information

about death of Sangita and her children. He admitted that the

Accused had told him on phone that Sangita had gone to the

house of another person. He had received photograph of that

person on mobile,but his name was not told to him. He denied

that the Accused called him 150 to 200 times and that the

Accused had forwarded him mobile number of Vishal Wadmare.

He had received call from unknown number. His sister had called

him from that number. Name of the unknown number was

reflected on true caller relating to police department. He denied

that when he called back on that unknown number, his sister and

Vishal Wadmare talked to him. Sanjay Jadhav is his uncle. He

stays at Baramati. He was elder member of the family and was

present in the marriage. He told him regarding dispute between

the Accused and Sangita. Prior to lock down, they did not visit

Beed to ascertain relations between the Accused and Sangita. He

denied that the Accused called him on phone and asked him to

come to Beed and give understanding to Sangita. He denied that

since last one year, the Accused was telling him about illicit
 {42} CC 1-25.doc

relations of Sangita. He volunteered that prior to 2 days of the

incident, he learnt that Sangita had gone with another person to

his house. That was told to him by the Accused. Since Sangita

was not having mobile phone, he could not talk to her. He denied

that the Accused enquired with him whether Sangita had come

with two children to his house and he told the Accused to file

missing complaint with the police. He had called on unknown

number twice and talked with that unknown person. He told that

life of deceased was under threat and she was safe there. He told

that person to take Sangita to police station. On next day, when

Sangita left house, he tried to call that person again, but the

phone was switched off. He told that person to take Sangita to

her matrimonial house. He volunteered that, that person told that

Sangita was like his sister. He denied that the Accused told him

that Sangita was not behaving properly and asked him to take

her back and since the Accused was constantly complaining

about Sangita, he stopped talking to him. He could not tell the

date and time when he gave understanding to the Accused.

Sangita did not talk to him, she talked to his uncle. He denied

that the Accused is not responsible for death of Sangita and her

children. 44. PW-11 Sanjay Jadhav is uncle of deceased Sangita. He

deposed that, the Accused is husband of daughter of his sister in
 {43} CC 1-25.doc

law. Sangita married with accused 15 years ago. They had three

children. Accused was selling package of food articles. He

received phone call of Sangita during the period of Covid lock

down. Phone call was received few days prior to the incident. She

said that the Accused was threatening to kill her and her

children. He told that vehicles were not plying on the road and he

gave her understanding not to quarrel and assured that he would

come after lock down restrictions are lifted. After 2 days, he

received phone call of Rahul Wanarase (PW-8) that the Accused

had killed Sangita and her two sons. Beed police came to

Baramati and enquired with him. He told that he had talked

Sangita two days prior and he had recorded conversation in the

mobile. His mobile was seized by police in the presence of

Pancha vide Panchanama (Exhibit-77). He identified the mobile

(Article-22). In the cross-examination, he deposed that Sangita used to

tell about ill treatment to Rahul, who in turn used to tell him and

thereafter he used to give understanding to the Accused and

Sangita. He could not tell date, month or year when he gave

understanding to them. He was respected by the family of the

Accused. He denied that the Accused called him and told that

Sangita was having illicit relationship and asked him to give

understanding to her. He did not remember when he received
 {44} CC 1-25.doc

phone call from Sangita, name appeared was of Vishal Wadmare.

After death of Sangita, he did not come to Beed, as there was

lock down. 45. Evidence of PW-8 and PW-11 is attacked on the ground that

they are related to the deceased and they are interested

witnesses, therefore, their evidence should be disbelieved. In

case of a related witness, the Court may not treat his or her

testimony as inherently tainted, and needs to ensure only that

the evidence is inherently reliable, probable, cogent and

consistent. 46. In " Jayabalan v. State (UT of Pondicherry ) 9 the Apex

Court observed : 47. In the light of the aforesaid observations, we are not

inclined to agree with the submission of the defence that PW-8

9 (2010) 1 SCC 199
 {45} CC 1-25.doc

and PW-11 are related to the deceased and they are interested

witnesses and hence their evidence should be discarded. 48. Evidence of PW-8 and PW-11 is consistent on the point of

ill-treatment and threats given by the Accused to deceased

Sangita and corroborates the prosecution case and also proves

motive on the part of the Accused. 49. Prosecution has examined PW-13 Vishal Wadmare, with

whom, Sangita allegedly had illicit relations. He deposed that he

knew Sudhir Wanjare who stays in his locality. He knew him since

they both were working together on brick kiln. Thereafter he

went to work with accused. Sudhir Wanjare used to call to the

house of accused. Two to three times Sudhir Wanjare called at

the house of accused from his mobile phone. Wife of Santosh

Kokane was calling on his mobile phone. She used to tell him on

phone that accused used to beat her and she is facing ill

treatment from the Accused. She used to tell that accused was

threatening to kill her. On 15.04.2020 Sangita came to his house

along with her son Kalpesh. He asked her as to why she came.

She told that accused had beaten her and threatened to kill her.

Hence she came to his house. She stayed in his house for three

days. Accused had filed missing complaint, due to that police

personnel came to his house. On 21.04.2020 they were taken to
 {46} CC 1-25.doc

Peth Beed Police Station. Police made enquiry. From the Police

Station, Sangita along with her son Kalpesh went to the house of

accused. On 22.05.2020 Sangita came at Barshi Naka and called

him on phone. She told that there was dispute between her and

accused and accused beat her. On 24.05.2020 police personnel

from Peth Beed Police Station came to his house and he was

taken to Peth Beed Police Station. They inquired with him. At that

time accused was present in the police station. In the Police

Station he learnt that accused killed Sangita and her two

children. His statement was recorded in the Court on 14.07.2020. 50. In the cross he stated that he knows Sudhir Wanjare since

childhood but denied that they were relatives and they belong to

the same community. He belongs to Scheduled Caste. He did not

know whether police constable Wadmare came to Barshi Naka to

take him, he did not know whether he was his relative. His

statement was recorded on 24.05.2020. Police did not come to

him after 24.05.2020. He did not go to Police Station thereafter.

He did not tell Sangita when she called on phone that, he will

inform her husband or her parental relatives. He did not know

whether parental house of Sangita was at Solapur. He was not

knowing Rahul Wanarase, brother of Sangita. His mobile number

is 9552360518. He denied that mobile numbers of parental

relatives of Sangita were saved in his mobile. His mobile was
 {47} CC 1-25.doc

seized during the investigation and same was given back to him.

He denied that his sister used to talk with Sangita on phone and

that on 20.02.2020 he along with Sangita had gone to parental

home. He denied that since relatives of Sangita did not like him

going there, he came back. He did not go to Police Station after

Sangita complained him about ill treatment given by accused. On

15.04.2020 he did not call Sudhir Wanjare on phone when

Sangita came to him and did not inform him about it. He came to

know about Sangita through Sudhir Wanjare. He could not assign

any reason why he did not inform Sudhir Wanjare. He denied that

as he wanted to marry Sangita hence he did not inform Sudhir

Wanjare about it. He is not married. He had no reason to take

care of Sangita. His house is at a distance of approximately 1000

feet from Barshi Naka police chowki. He did not inform any police

chowki when Sangita came to his house. He did not feel that

there was dispute between accused and Sudhir Wanjare. He did

not purchase mobile phone for Sangita. She took one sim card

from him, when she came to his house on 15.04.2020. She used

to call him from said sim card. He denied that he used to talk to

Sangita regularly after accused went on his work. Once Sudhir

had shown the house of accused to him. He denied that prior to

15.04.2020 Sangita came to his house 15 to 20 times. Since he

did not have mobile numbers of relatives of Sangita he did not
 {48} CC 1-25.doc

inform them that Sangita was calling him and coming to his

house. He denied that since he had accepted the responsibility of

Sangita with her two children, she was staying in his house, and

that Sangita was asking him to marry her and he refused to

marry. He denied that Sangita threatened to commit suicide if he

refused to marry. He admitted that he received call from Sangita

telling him that she was going to Kankaleshwar, he asked her to

go home. He denied that Sangita was constantly coming to his

house and he was avoiding her. Sangita had come to his house

with Santosh. He denied that she stayed over night. He denied

that Sangita was insisting to marry him and he denied and due to

that he committed murder of Sangita and her two children. He

denied that witnesses in this incident were his relatives. He

denied that in collusion with police constable Wadmare he

gathered false witnesses and implicated accused in the crime. He

denied that since accused used to go to sell kurkure, he

committed the crime. 51. It is necessary to mention here that the Accused had made

unsubstantiated suggestion to this witness that, he has

committed murder of Sangita, Siddhesh and Kalpesh, as Sangita

was insisting him to marry her and he was not ready for the

same. However, nothing in this behalf is brought on record by the

Accused to substantiate this suggestion. {49} CC 1-25.doc 52. Prosecution has examined PW-2 Raju Wanjare, an employee

of Municipal Council, Beed. He is panch to the spot panchnama.

On 24.05.2020, he was in the office and on direction of his

superior officer he and his colleague Anil Madhukar Rokde went

to Police Station Peth Beed to act as panch. Santosh Kokane had

shown the spot. Along with police they went to Shukrawar Peth at

the house of Santosh Kokane. It was a house (okMk) having tin roof.

In front of open space their room was there. In the room one tile

(stone), wooden bat was lying. There was blood on the stone.

Police seized both the articles and prepared panchnama. Apart

from that one handle of bat, white colour rope, green colour

pieces of bangles and bangle, water sample from blue colour

plastic water tank, blood samples, blue colour plastic tank, old

handkerchief, one yellow red green rose colour scarf were also

separately seized from the spot and sealed. Same is mentioned

in spot panchnama Exhibit-30. He identified the article No. 1

Stone, article No. 2 bat, article No. 3 handle of bat, article No. 7

pieces of bangle, blood sample, article No. 6 rope, article No. 11

old handkerchief, article No. 12 scarf. He also identified the

signature over the seal. Three dead bodies were found. Head of

lady was found pressed. Blood was oozing from ear and nose.

One dead body of boy aged about 10 years having head injury

was also lying beside the dead body of the lady. Next dead body
 {50} CC 1-25.doc

of boy was found in blue colour plastic tank containing water.

Hands of said body was tied by scarf. Inquest panchnamas of

three dead bodies were prepared in their presence vide Exhibits-

31, 32 and 33. 53. In the cross he stated that towards eastern side of said

room, room of brother of Santosh is there. Towards northern side

tenants were residing. The distance between room and

surrounding room were so close to each other that if anybody

talk in any particular room it can be heard in another room. The

house of accused was surrounded by 100 houses. There is no

special mark over seized articles. On that day about 12-13

signature were obtained on chits, those chits were affixed on the

articles in their presence in the police station. He denied that

panchnamas were not prepared on the spot and they were

prepared at police station. 54. Prosecution by examining PW-3 Rahul Gopal Korde, panch,

has proved the panchnama (Exhibit-43) of seizure of clothes of

Sangita i.e. chocolate colour Salwar (Article -13) and cream

colour top ( Article - 14 ), clothes of Siddesh i.e. pink colour shirt

(Article-15), blue colour jeans, a blue colour underwear (Article- 17) and seizure of blood stained yellow colour t-shirt (Article - 18) and green colour pant (Article-19) of Kalpesh. {51} CC 1-25.doc

 Panchnama (Exhibit-46) of seizure of clothes of accused

Santosh i.e. chocolate colour full shirt article-20, cream colour

pant article-21 is also proved by this witness. 55. He is also panch to the panchnama of obtaining CCTV

footage from one house at Mauli Chowk, from house of Sarda and

from New Diamond Confectionery. Thereafter, police took him

and another Panch Akash to Mauli Chowk, in front of one house.

He did not remember name of the person who stayed there.

CCTV camera was installed outside the house. They were shown

CCTV footage by the owner of the house. They saw the Accused

in the CCTV footage going from Mauli Chowk to Kala Hanuman

Thana. CCTV footage was obtained in a memory card, which was

sealed in their presence and their signatures were obtained on it. From there, they proceeded to Kala Hanuman Thana

Chowk. While going there, they came across house of Sarda.

There was CCTV camera outside the house. They went inside the

house and saw the CCTV footage, wherein the Accused was seen

going from in front of the house of Sarda towards Kala Hanuman

Chowk. Said CCTV footage was obtained in a memory card and

the memory card was sealed in their presence and their

signatures were obtained. {52} CC 1-25.doc

 From there, they went to the Kala Hanuman Thana Chowk

and from there, they started towards Shukrawar Peth, on the

way, shop called New Diamond Confectionery was seen. CCTV

cameras were installed outside the shop. They inspected CCTV

footage. The Accused was seen going from in front of the shop

towards Mondha Naka. CCTV footage was obtained in the

memory card and the memory card was sealed in their presence

and their signatures were obtained on it. All these findings and

recoveries were recorded in Panchanama Exhibit-47. Three sealed envelopes containing memory cards were

opened in the Court during his evidence and the memory cards

were given Articles "A" and "B". 56. On 30.05.2020, Police took him and Akash to Sarda road to

see CCTV footage. They went to Rashtriya Nagari Co-operative

Credit Society. Bank Manager Mukeshkumar Dhage was present.

On the request of police, Bank Manager showed CCTV footage

dated 24.05.2020. In the CCTV footage he saw accused going

towards Kala Hanuman Thana. Police obtained copy of CCTV

footage in the memory card and obtained their signature on it

and the memory card was sealed. Panchnama (Exhibit-48) was

prepared in their presence. He also identified the memory card

Article-C.
 {53} CC 1-25.doc 57. In the cross he stated that he went to the police station at

9.00 a.m. and panchnama was started around 9.15 a.m. The

clothes were already kept separately by the police. When Article-

13 was shown to him he stated that same is designer top of

yellow, blue, black colour. All the clothes did not bear any chit

having his signature. He has deposed that said clothes belong to

deceased as he was told it during the panchnama. He admitted

that Article-15 is not of red colour. Police did not ascertain

ownership of house from where CCTV footage was copied. He

said that police inquired with the owner and he was present

there. For panchnama police carried with them laptop and

stationery. He did not know Vishal Wadmare resident of Barshi

Naka, Beed. Panchnama was conducted during first stage of

Corona pandemic. It was mandatory for the person to wear mask.

He admitted that face of a person in the footage is covered by

handkerchief. He denied that he cannot identify the person in the

footage as his face is covered by handkerchief. He admitted that

to identify a person his nose, lips and chin should be visible and

in the footage nose, lips and chin of the person is not visible. In

another footage back of the person is visible. 58. Prosecution has also examined PW-10 Kailas Wable,

Assistant Sub Inspector, who has investigated the missing
 {54} CC 1-25.doc

complaint. He testified that on 17.04.2020, he was present in

Peth Beed Police Station, on that day accused lodged missing

complaint which was registered as Missing Complaint No. 7/2020.

It was handed over to him for investigation. He identified the

missing complaint (Exhibit-71). He was also handed over copy of

missing person registration No. 7/2020 (Exhibit-72). He tried to

search missing person with relatives. During inquiry of the

missing complaint accused told him that his wife and son were at

Barshi Naka. He went to the house of Vishal Wadmare (PW-13).

There he found Sangita and Kalpesh. He brought them to the

police station. Accused was present in the police station. When

he asked Sangita the reason why she left house, she told him

that accused used to beat her and her son on trivial reasons. He

gave understanding to them. He recorded statement of Sangita

and accused. Thereafter Sangita and her son went with the

Accused to matrimonial home. He then filed first information

report Exhibit-73 to P.I. and handed over the complaint and

missing report to P.I. along with statement of Sangita and

accused. 59. In the cross he stated that in the complaint it was

mentioned that Sangita was constantly talking on phone and she

left home without informing anybody. He searched with two

relatives of accused. He did not contact Sangita's parents. In
 {55} CC 1-25.doc

Sangita's statement it is mentioned that she got angry due to

behavior of accused. She called Vishal Wadmare on mobile phone

and told that accused beat her, she does not want to stay and

called him. He accordingly came on his motorcycle and she went

to his house at Barshi Naka where she stayed. Since her

statement was referred to him in the cross, it was marked at

Exhibit- 74. He further stated that he went to Barshi Naka and

brought Vishal Wadmare to police station. He did not record his

statement. Any previous complaint filed by Sangita was not

handed over to him for inquiry. Santosh happily took Sangita and

Kalpesh to his house after they were handed over to him. 60. Prosecution has examined PW-4 PSI Rajendra Bankar, who

at the relevant time was working as PSO at Peth Beed Police

Station. He deposed that on 24.05.2020, he was working as PSO.

On that day, Sandip Jaydatta Kokane (PW-1) came to police

station and told him that his brother Santosh had killed his wife

Sangita, sons Siddesh and Kalpesh with bat and stone and

thereafter put Kalpesh in water barrel. He had brought accused

to police station with him. Accordingly complaint (Exhibit-52) was

recorded as per his say. He and complainant put their signatures

on the complaint. Portion mark 'A', 'B', 'C' and 'D' were recorded

as per say of complainant, they were given Exhibit-53. He

accompanied I.O. to gather information regarding movement of
 {56} CC 1-25.doc

accused from the spot and to collect CCTV footage. Panchas were

with them. They went to Mauli chowk. They found CCTV cameras

installed outside the house of Tiwari. On inspecting footage

collected from camera No. 1 and 2 accused was noticed. That

footage was copied and pasted in the memory card of Toshiba

company. Hash value was obtained. Memory card was seized and

sealed in presence of panchas. When they went ahead they

noticed CCTV camera outside the house of Sarda. They inspected

the CCTV footage. Accused was seen in it. The footage was

copied and pasted in the memory card. Hash value was obtained.

Memory card was seized and sealed in presence of panchas.

Thereafter they came near Diamond Confectionery shop. They

noticed CCTV camera outside the shop. They inspected the CCTV

footage. Accused was noticed in it. The footage was copied and

pasted in memory card. Hash value was obtained. Memory card

was seized and sealed in presence of panchas. He had obtained

training in computer operations, collection of data from electronic

devices, storing the data, obtaining hash value etc. He had

knowledge of the aforesaid things. He issued certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act (Exhibit-54). 61. He went along with I.O. to Rashtriya Nagari Sahakari pat-

Sanstha on 30.05.2020. They inspected the CCTV cameras there.

Accused was located in the footage. He was noticed going
 {57} CC 1-25.doc

towards the spot. Said footage was copied and pasted in memory

card. Its hash value was obtained. Memory card was seized and

sealed in presence of panchas. Thereafter he gave certificate

under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act (Exhibit-55). He has

mentioned regarding device used by him for collecting the

footage. He has also filed hash value number obtained from

screenshots regarding hash value from his computer. They are

part of certificate (Exhibit-55). The footage were collected as

they were. The instruments used for collecting the footage were

in proper condition. Accused noticed in the footage and present

in the Court is one and the same. 62. In the cross he denied that he has deposed false that

informant came with accused to Police Station and that portion

mark 'A', 'B', 'C', and 'D' were not told by informant. It did not

happen that he asked the question to the complainant and he

answered and accordingly complaint was recorded. He knows

typing. He has certificate of MSCIT. He denied that complaint at

Exhibit-52 was not recorded as per the say of informant. He

further stated that while collecting hash value he used Karens

Hasher software, the same is mentioned in panchnama (Exhibit- 47). Screenshots did not bear his signature. Panchas were called

by I.O. prior to going for panchnama. He had seen accused from

the distance of 50 feet. He admitted that during training they
 {58} CC 1-25.doc

were taught how to recognize a person. A person can be

identified on observing his eyes, noes and ear. He volunteered

that a person can be identified from his body language, head

movement, hand movement etc. He observed CCTV cameras

when he went with I.O. In his presence. I.O. did not take the

ownership document of the house. For conducting both

panchnamas he carried with him computer, memory card reader,

03 memory cards, his mobile of OPPO company and external

hard-disc. There are 3 to 4 types of Hard-drive. No separate

panchnama was conducted that the memory card was empty. He

volunteered that it is mentioned in the panchnama that memory

card was empty. On being questioned "Whether a new folder was

created after taking footage and whether it was named?" he

answered that "footage was taken in hard-drive. It was attached

to computer and from there it was directly taken in memory

card." Footage can be edited before taking hash value. Footage

was firstly collected in hard-drive and thereafter it was

transferred in the memory card. Original footage is in DVR. Clone

copy was not done by them. Clone copy is not available with

them. He denied that he edited the footage in his laptop. He

admitted that screenshot of hash value was not signed by him, it

was signed by I.O. There is no date below his signature at Exhibit-

54 and 55. He denied that since he was not owner of the DVR he
 {59} CC 1-25.doc

had no authority to issue certificates at Exhibit-54 and 55. He

denied the suggestion that he is deposing false that CCTV

footage was taken in his OPPO mobile, that he deposed false

regarding hash value and no footage was collected from the

house of Tiwari, Sarda and Rashtriya Nagari Sahakari Pat-Sanstha

and he is deposing false. 63. Prosecution has examined PW-9 Sunil Algat, Police Head

Constable, who was working at Peth Beed Police Station as Police

Naik. On 24.05.2020 he was present in the police station. At

around 1.45 p.m. he received call from his fried Girish Bagde

informing him that a foul smell was coming from house in Takia

Colony, Peth Beed. He accordingly informed to P.I. Shri. Patil, he

took entry in station diary (Exhibit-67) and they went towards the

spot. On 09.06.2020 he was given two letters and muddemal in

Crime No. 150/2020 by Mohril and I.O. to deposit with Forensic

Laboratory. He deposited the muddemal in Forensic Laboratory

and obtained acknowledgment (Exhibit-68). 64. In the cross he stated that there were 22 sealed envelopes.

Panchnama was not conducted while handing over muddemal to

him. 65. In re-examination he stated that on 25.02.2021 he was on

duty, he was handed over two letters and four sealed envelopes
 {60} CC 1-25.doc

in Crime No. 150/2020. On the same day evening he went to

Mumbai along with sealed envelopes and letters and deposited it

in Forensic Laboratory on 26.02.2021 . 66. Police Inspector Vishwas Patil PW-15 is the investigating

officer. Spot panchnama, inquest panchnama and complaint were

handed over to him. He recorded statement of Rajendra Satpute

as per his say. Portion Mark 'A' and 'B' in his statement are as per

his say. They were given Exhibit-104 and 105 respectively. He

seized clothes of deceased Sangita, Siddesh, Kalpesh and clothes

of accused vide panchnamas Exhibits-43, 44, 45 and 46. He

arrested the accused vide panchnama Exhibit-107. He collected

CCTV footage from three places wherein accused was seen

walking. Prior to collecting the footage, notices (Exhibits-108, 109

and 110) were given to concerned house owners. They gave

consent and thereafter CCTV footage was collected. Panchnama

(Exhibits-47 and 54) were conducted at the time of collecting

CCTV footage. He proved the letter (Exhibit-113) given to Court

for recording statements of PW-1 and PW-14 under section 164 of

the Criminal Procedure Code. He proved portion mark 'A' in the

statement of PW5- Vilas Bamne, which was marked Exhibit-111.

He proved portion mark 'A' (Exhibit-112) in the statement of

Sanjay Wadekar. He stated that portion mark 'A' from the

statement of Sanjay Wadekar (PW-6) is recorded as per his say. {61} CC 1-25.doc

He then described the steps taken by him during the course of

investigation including recording of statements of witnesses,

forwarding of articles to Forensic Laboratory, forwarding of pen

drive containing CCTV footage and its report Exhibit-118. He

obtained PTR record of the house of accused (Exhibit-116).

During the investigation it was revealed that accused had

committed murder of Sangita, Siddesh and Kalpesh. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE 67. HOMICIDAL DEATH OF SANGITA, SIDDHESH AND KALPESH

 Homicidal death of Sangita, Siddhesh and Kalpesh is

proved by the Prosecution in the evidence of PW-12. The defence

has not disputed the homicidal deaths of Sangita, Siddhesh and

Kalpesh. 68. MOTIVE: f. From the aforesaid evidence, the prosecution has

 established that relations between the accused and

 deceased Sangita were strained. According to Sangita, the

 Accused used to beat her and, therefore, she had left

 company of the Accused and went to Vishal Wadmare to

 stay with him. The Accused was aware about this fact. From

 the evidence of PW-8 and PW-11, it is brought on record

 that the Accused was suspecting character of deceased and

 the deceased was apprehending that the Accused would kill

 her and her children. g. The Accused, in his answer given to Question No. 161 in the

 statement recorded under section 313 of the Criminal

 Procedure Code, has admitted that there were illicit

 relations between Sangita and PW-13 Vishal.

h. All the aforesaid evidence establishes that the Accused had
 {65} CC 1-25.doc

 strong motive to kill Sangita and her two children. On

 appreciation of this evidence, we are of the considered view

 that the Prosecution has proved that the Accused had

 motive to kill Sangita. 69. EXTRA JUDICIAL CONFESSION BY THE ACCUSED : The fact of handing over of custody of the Accused to the

 police by PW-1 further supports the making of extra judicial

 confession by the Accused. d. Evidence on record further reveals that pursuant to the

 extra judicial confession, the whereabouts of dead body of

 Kalpesh were made known to PW-1 and the same were

 reported by him to the police vide FIR (Exhibit-52). In the

 portion marked "C", in the statement of PW-1 recorded

 before the Magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal

 Procedure Code also, in verbatim the same extra judicial

 confession is mentioned. This further lends support to the

 prosecution case that, the Accused made extra judicial
 {67} CC 1-25.doc

 confession having killed his wife and two sons.

e. There is evidence on record that, after lodging of the FIR

 (Exhibit-52), police, along with PW-1 and PW-7 went to the

 scene of offence. They searched and found dead body of

 Kalpesh, in a barrel containing water. This fact is

 corroborated by PW-7 Sachin. This fact also corroborates

 extra judicial confession made by the Accused, wherein he

 has disclosed that first he beat Kalpesh with bat and then

 drowned him in a barrel containing water. This also

 corroborates the prosecution case that the Accused made

 extra judicial confession. f. Discovery of dead body of Kalpesh on the information

 given by the Accused, exhibits knowledge or mental

 awareness of the Accused as to the existence of dead body

 of Kalpesh in the water barrel and proves his complicity in

 the present crime. The discovery of the dead body of

 Kalpesh in the water barrel, on the basis of extra judicial

 confession of the Accused further lends support to the

 prosecution case and proves the fact of Accused making

 extra judicial confession. 70. CCTV FOOTAGE / ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE : d. We do not agree with the submission of the learned APP

 that PW-4, having obtained computer training and being

 expert in the field, has issued certificates under section

 65B of the Evidence Act in official capacity. Requirement of

 sub clause "a" of clause 2 of section 65B of the Evidence

 Act is that, the computer output containing the information

 was produced by the computer during the period over

 which the computer was used regularly to store or process

 information for the purposes of any activities regularly

 carried on over that period by the person having lawful

 control over the use of the computer. e. PW-4 cannot be said to have lawful control over the use of

 computers and, therefore, he was not competent to issue

 certificate under section 65B of the Evidence Act. In this

 view of the matter, there is no merit in the said argument

 of the learned APP. 71. FALSE PLEA OF ALIBI : 72. In "Jagannath Laxman Pawar V/s State of

Maharashtra11", this Court has held : 11 2016 ALL MR (Cri) 1168
 {72} CC 1-25.doc 73. In the light of the aforesaid observations, there is no

substance in the plea of alibi raised by the Accused. Thus, the

false plea of alibi taken by the Accused can be held to be an

additional circumstance against him. 74. FORENSIC EVIDENCE : 75. DELAY IN REGISTERING FIR: b. It appears that though the informant (PW-1) approached

the police station along with the Accused and disclosed

commission of offence of murder by the Accused, the Police

failed to register FIR and crime immediately. It seems that, police

kept the Accused in the police station and accompanied the

informant to the spot of the incident and conducted spot

panchanama and inquest panchanamas.There appears some

delay on the part of the police authorities in registering the FIR. {75} CC 1-25.doc

 Fact remains that the defence has failed to cross-examine

police station officer (PW-4) and investigating officer (PW-15) on

the point of delay in registering the FIR and crime.

c. It is by now settled that merely because there are lapses on

the part of police to register the crime at the earliest, that by

itself is not sufficient to give benefit to the Accused.

d. In "Ravinder Kumar and Others V/s State of

Punjab12" it is held: e. In "State of Karnataka V/s K. Yarappa Reddy"13 the

Apex Court has observed: f. Applying aforesaid ratio to the facts of the present case,

merely because there is some delay on the part of the police to

register the crime at the earliest, we are not inclined to give

benefit of the same to the Accused. The Accused has

13 (1999) 8 SCC 715
 {77} CC 1-25.doc

failed to show that due to the delayed registration of crime,

serious prejudice is caused to him. The prosecution, by leading

cogent evidence, has proved that the Accused is the author of

the crime. 76. CONDUCT OF THE ACCUSED: b. The plea of alibi raised by the Accused is found to be false

 and not proved by him. Taking into consideration the

 distance between the house of the Accused and the house

 of PW-14 being 300 meters, it was easy for the Accused to

 go to his house, kill his wife and sons and return back to

 the house of PW-14. c. While answering the questions put to him in his statement

 under section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the
 {78} CC 1-25.doc

 Accused has gone to the extent of denying his relationship

 between him and his brother, PW-1 Sandip and that his

 family consists of his mother, wife and four daughters, the

 Accused has answered the said question by saying "no".

 The conduct of the Accused is an additional link in the

chain of circumstances, proved by the prosecution showing his

complicity in the crime. 77. PRESUMPTION UNDER SECTION 106 OF THE EVIDENCE ACT: 78. On careful scrutiny of the material placed on record, we are

of the considered view that prosecution has proved beyond

reasonable doubt that : e. On 21st April, 2020, PW-10 Kailas Wable went to the

 house of PW-13 and brought PW-13, Sangita and

 Kalpesh to Peth Beed Police Station and made inquiry

 with them. He recorded statement of Sangita

 (Exhibit-74). On the same day, Sangita and Kalpesh

 went with the Accused. f. On 22nd May, 2020, Sangita came at Barshi Naka and

 called PW-13 on phone and told him that there was

 dispute between her and Accused and the Accused

 beat her. g. During Covid-19 lock-down, there used to be constant

 quarrel between the Accused and Sangita. h. Accused used to call Sangita's brother PW-8 Rahul

 and used to tell him that he was suspecting character

 of Sangita and Sangita used to tell Rahul that the

 Accused had threatened her and she was having

 apprehension that the Accused would kill her and her

 children. i. When PW-8 Rahul tried to give understanding to the
 {81} CC 1-25.doc

 Accused, he threatened him and also threatened to

 kill Sangita. j. Accused had also told PW-8 that Sangita had gone to

 the house of another person. k. Sangita, in a phone call made few days prior to the

 incident to PW-11 Sanjay Jadhav, told that Accused

 was threatening to kill her and her children.

l. Accused, along with elder son Mayuresh, went to the

 house of PW-14 in the evening of 23 rd May, 2020.

 Accused woke up around 4.00 a.m. in the morning

 and went to his house and killed Sangita by hitting

 wooden bat and stone on her head. In similar

 manner, he killed Siddhesh by hitting cricket bat on

 his head and left them in a pool of blood. m. Accused then hit younger son Kalpesh with bat on

 head, then tied his hands and drowned him in a

 barrel containing water. n. PW-5, neighbour of the Accused saw the Accused at

 4.30 a.m. on 24th May, 2020, when he woke up for

 toilet. {82} CC 1-25.doc

o. PW-6 saw the Accused at 5.15 a.m. on 24th May,

 2020, going outside his house. p. On 24th May, 2020 at about 6.00 a.m. PW-14 saw

 accused coming from outside in frightened condition.

 When asked, the Accused disclosed that he had gone

 for a walk. q. On 24th May, 2020, at about 11.00 a.m. PW-1 came

 out of his house. Baliram Teke and Sachin PW-7 met

 him and asked him whereabouts of Santosh

 (Accused) and Sangita (deceased). He told them that

 the Accused had gone to police station. That time,

 door of the house of Accused was closed. PW-1,

 informant, Sachin and Baliram went to the house of

 the Accused and pushed the door. On being pushed,

 the door opened. They saw Siddhesh lying in injured

 condition and blood oozing from his head. Besides

 Siddhesh, Sangita was found lying in pool of blood.

r. They, therefore, came out of the house and PW-1

 went to Peth Beed Police Station. s. Outside the Police Station, PW-1 met the Accused. He

 enquired about the incident and the Accused
 {83} CC 1-25.doc

 confessed to him that he killed his wife Sangita and

 two sons, Siddhesh and Kalpesh in the same morning

 at about 4.00 a.m. by hitting them with wooden bat

 and stone and by drowning Kalpesh in barrel filled

 with water. t. After hearing said confession, PW-1 took the accused

 in the police station and handed him over in the

 custody of police. He then informed the incident to

 police, including the extra judicial confession made

 by the Accused. u. In the meanwhile at 1.45 p.m., on receipt of phone

 call about bad smell of dead body coming from the

 house of the Accused, PW-9 took station diary entry

 (Exhibit-67) and proceeded to the spot along with

 Police Inspector Bharati, PSI Bankar, PHC Wadmare

 and other police constables. v. The spot of the incident was shown by PW-1 and Spot

 Panchanama (Exhibit-30) was conducted in the

 presence of Pancha PW-2 Raju Wanjare at 14.50 hrs.

w. As disclosed in the extra judicial confession, dead

 body of Kalpesh was found in the barrel containing
 {84} CC 1-25.doc

 water, which was not noticed by the informant and

 PW-7, when they initially went to the house and

 opened door, they had only noticed dead bodies of

 Siddhesh and Sangita lying in pool of blood.

x. From the spot of the incident, cricket bat with broken

 handle having blood stains, its handle and square

 stone having blood stains, plastic barrel in which

 dead body of Kalpesh was found, blood spread on the

 post of the incident, blood stained handkerchief of

 the Accused etc. were seized. y. Inquest Panchanamas on dead bodies of Siddesh

 (Exhibit-31), Sangita (Exhibit-32) and Kalpesh

 (Exhibit-33) were conducted on 24th May, 2020

 between 15.00 hrs and 18.15 hrs in presence of PW-3

 Rahul Korde. z. On the basis of information given by PW-1, FIR at

 Crime No. 150 of 2020 for the offence punishable

 under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was

 registered by the PSO, PW-4 at 23.35 hrs.

aa. On the basis of first information report (Exhibit-52)

 lodged by PW-1, crime No.150 of 2020 for offence
 {85} CC 1-25.doc

 punishable under section 302 was registered at Peth

 Beed Police Station on 24th May, 2020 at 23.35 hrs

 and the investigation was handed over to Police

 Inspector Patil, PW-15. ab. Accused was arrested on 25th May, 2020 at 00.25 hrs,

 vide arrest Panchanama (Exhibit-107). Blood stained

 clothes of the accused were seized on 25 th May, 2020

 at 11.10 to 11.40 a.m. vide Panchanama (Exhibit-46).

ac. PW-12 Dr. Dipali Gavhane conducted post mortem on

 the dead body of Siddesh on 25 th May, 2020 and gave

 report (Exhibit-81) and opined that cause of death is

 due to head injury. ad Post mortem report of Sangita is at Exhibit-84 and

 cause of her death is stated to be 'death due to head

 injury'. ae PW-12 also conducted post mortem on the dead body

 of Kalpesh on the same day and gave report Exhibit-

 87 and opined that cause of death is due to drowning

 associated with head injury. af. PW-15, Investigating Officer, seized clothes ( Articles

 13 and 14 ) of deceased Sangita vide Panchanama
 {86} CC 1-25.doc

 Exhibit-43; PW-15 also seized clothes of Siddhesh

 ( Articles - 15 , 16 and 17 ) vide Panchanama (Exhibit- 44). He seized clothes of Kalpesh ( Articles 18 and 19 )

 vide Panchanama (Exhibit-45). ag. Investigating Officer thereafter obtained CCTV

 footage from the houses of Anand Mahesh Tiwari,

 Sharad Sarda and from New Diamond Confectionery,

 through PW-4 in the presence of Pancha PW-3.

ah. Investigating Officer then forwarded CCTV footage

 and Articles seized during the course of investigation

 from the spot etc. to forensic laboratory, through PW-

 4 vide Exhibit-68. ai. CA report Exhibit-13 shows that blood stains of blood

 group "A" were found on the shirt and lower part of

 the pant of the Accused. aj. As per Exhibits-14, 15 and 17, blood group of Sangita,

 Siddhesh and the Accused is "A". ak. On 27th May, 2020, statement of PW-14 under section

 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code was recorded

 before the Magistrate. {87} CC 1-25.doc

al. On 27th May, 2020 statement of PW-1 informant

 under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code

 was recorded before the Magistrate, which is in tune

 with the FIR. am. Admission of the Accused about illicit relations

 between Sangita and PW-13 in the statement

 recorded under section 313 of the Criminal Procedure

 Code. an. Due to the alleged illicit relations between Sangita

 and PW-14, the Accused had strong motive to kill

 Sangita and her children. ao. Extra judicial confession finds support from the

 statement made in the FIR as well as from the fact

 that, on making such confession, informant PW-1

 handed over custody of the accused to police at the

 time of lodging of the first information report (Exhibit- 52). ap. Medical record is in conformity with the first

 information report (Exhibit-52) lodged by PW-1 and

 thus corroborates contents of the FIR. aq. No plausible explanation is offered by the Accused
 {88} CC 1-25.doc

 about death of his wife and two sons while they were

 in his custody. Therefore, the Accused has failed to

 discharge burden under section 106 of the Evidence

 Act and this is an additional circumstance against the

 Accused. 79. In "Govardhan (supra) the Apex Court has observed: 23. While applying this principle of proof beyond reasonable doubt
the Court has to undertake a candid consideration of all the evidence
in a fair and reasonable manner as observed by this Court in State of
Haryana v. Bhagirath (1999) 5 SCC 96 as follows: However, in all criminal cases a careful explanation of the
 term ought to be given. A definition often quoted or followed
 {90} CC 1-25.doc

 is that given by Chief Justice Shaw in the Webster case . He
 says: 81. On this point, Lord Denning, J. in " Miller v. Miller of

Pensions "15 has observed: 82. In "Govardhan" (supra), it is further held : 83. Reference can also be made to the decision of the Apex

Court in "Sucha Singh V/s State of Punjab"16 wherein, the

Apex Court has reiterated the principle in the following words: 84. Keeping in mind the aforesaid observations and the golden

16 (2003) 7 SCC 643
17 (1990) 1 SCC 445
 {94} CC 1-25.doc

Rules in "Sharad Birdichand Sarda V/s State of

Maharashtra18 " case, and applying them to the facts of the

present case, we find that, circumstantial evidence against the

accused, taken cumulatively, forms a chain so complete that

there is no escape from the conclusion that, within all human

probability, the crime was committed by the accused and none

else. Each of the circumstance established against the Accused is

incriminating and all the circumstances cumulatively prove the

complicity of the Accused. Circumstantial evidence relied upon

by the prosecution lends assurance to the genuineness and

voluntary nature of the extra judicial confession. The entire

evidence on record completes chain of events and establishes

case of the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. The FIR

corresponds the prosecution case. Medical evidence corroborates

prosecution case and thus corroborates contents of the FIR and

the confessional statement of the Accused. 85. The chain of circumstances proved by the prosecution is so

interwoven to each other that it leads to no other conclusion than

guilt of the Accused. According to us, every other hypothesis

except guilt of the Accused is ruled out in the present case. We

are, therefore, of the considered view that the conviction

awarded by the Trial Court to the Accused, for the offence

18 1984 AIR 1622
 {95} CC 1-25.doc

punishable under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, warrants

no interference. 86. Since we have held that accused is guilty of the offence

punishable under Section 302 of IPC, now the question to be

decided by us is as to whether the death penalty for the offence

under Section 302 of IPC given by the Trial Court needs to be

confirmed or whether some other penalty to be imposed on the

accused. 87. Learned advocate for the accused submitted that taking

into consideration report of the probation officer, Jail as well as

report from the Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical

College, Aurangabad, the death sentence awarded by the Trial

Court is harsh and excessive. According to him, this is not the

rarest of rare case wherein death sentence is required to be

imposed. 88. As against this, learned APP by relying on Psychological

evaluation report of the Accused, strenuously submitted that, six

members' Medical Board has opined that, there is less scope for

reformation in the Accused. He submitted that, the Accused

suspected character of his wife and he killed her because of the

said suspicion. However, two minor innocent sons are also done

to death by the Accused. Kalpesh was drowned in water after
 {96} CC 1-25.doc

assaulting him on head and after tying his hands. Murders of 3

innocent persons are committed in most cruel and brutal manner.

Accused assaulted vital parts of the bodies of all the three

victims i.e. head. Therefore, the Trial Court is justified in imposing

death penalty on the accused. 89. The law as to in what circumstances death penalty should

be awarded has been succinctly laid down by the Constitution

Benches of the Apex Court in " Jagmohan Singh vs. State of

Uttar Pradesh "19, " Bachan Singh vs. State of Punjab 20",

and the bench of three Hon'ble Judges of the Apex Court in

"Macchi Singh and Others vs. State of Punjab 21". The Apex

Court in " Shabnam vs. State of Uttar Pradesh 22", has culled

out aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances as

follows; (2) The offence was committed while the offender was
 engaged in the commission of another serious offence

(3) The offence was committed with the intention to create
 a fear psychosis in the public at large and was
 committed in a public place by a weapon or device
 which clearly could be hazardous to the life of more
 than one person. (4) The offence of murder was committed for ransom or like
 offences to receive money or monetary benefits.

(5) Hired killings. (6) The offence was committed outrageously for want only
 while involving inhumane treatment and torture to the
 victim. (7) The offence was committed by a person while in lawful
 custody. (8) The murder or the offence was committed to prevent a
 person lawfully carrying out his duty like arrest or
 custody in a place of lawful confinement of himself or
 another. For instance, murder is of a person who had
 acted in lawful discharge of his duty under Section 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (9) When the crime is enormous in proportion like making
 an attempt of murder of the entire family or members of
 a particular community. (10) When the victim is innocent, helpless or a person relies
 upon the trust of relationship and social norms, like a
 child, helpless woman, a daughter or a niece staying
 {98} CC 1-25.doc

 with a father/uncle and is inflicted with the crime by
 such a trusted person. (11) When murder is committed for a motive which evidences
 total depravity and meanness. (12) When there is a cold-blooded murder without
 provocation. (13) The crime is committed so brutally that it pricks or
 shocks not only the judicial conscience but even the
 conscience of the society. 77 . While determining the questions relatable to sentencing policy,
 the court has to follow certain principles and those principles are the
 loadstar besides the above considerations in imposition or otherwise
 of the death sentence. 90. In the aforesaid rulings the Apex Court has laid down

various aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances. {100} CC 1-25.doc

The Apex Court has laid down that death sentence should be

awarded only in rarest of the rare case. In Indian Criminal

Jurisprudence awarding death penalty is an exception and life

sentence is a rule. It is further laid down that death sentence

must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an

altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant

circumstances of the crime. 91. Keeping in mind aforesaid guiding principles we will first

consider the aggravating circumstances as culled out by the

Apex Court in the case of Shabnam (supra). Aggravating Circumstances: Thus, aggravating circumstance no. 2 would not be
 available in the present case. (3) There is no evidence that offence was committed with
 an intention to create a fear psychosis in the public at
 {101} CC 1-25.doc

 large and was committed in a public place by a weapon
 or device which clearly could be hazardous to the life of
 more than one person. As such aggravating
 circumstance no. 3 is also not available in the present
 case. (4) Offence of murder was not committed for ransom or
 like offences to receive money or monetary benefits.
 Thus, aggravating circumstance no. 4 would not be
 available in the present case. (5) Present case is not a case of hired killing and as such
 aggravating circumstance no. 5 would also not be
 available in the present case. (6) Material on record does not indicate that offence was
 committed outrageously for want only while involving
 inhumane and torture to victim. Therefore, aggravating
 circumstance no. 6 would not be available in the
 present case. (7) Material on record indicates that offence is committed
 by the accused while he was having lawful custody of
 Sangita, Siddhesh and Kalpesh. As such aggravating
 circumstance no. 7 would be fully available in the
 present case. (8) This is not a case where murder or the offence is
 committed to prevent a person lawfully carrying out his
 duty like arrest or custody. Therefore aggravating
 circumstance no. 8 would also not be available in the
 present case. {102} CC 1-25.doc

(9) Aggravating circumstance no. 9 is also not available
 inasmuch as though accused has committed murder of
 his wife and two sons this cannot be prompted to be an
 attempt to murder entire family or members of
 particular community. (10) In the present case prosecution has proved that victim
 Sangita and minor sons Siddhesh and Kalpesh were
 innocent, helpless and they relied upon trust of
 relationship with accused and they are inflicted with
 the crime by the accused who was husband and father.
 Therefore, aggravating circumstance no. 10 would be
 available in the present case. (11) Material on record indicates that illicit relations of wife
 Sangita with PW13 drove accused to commit the
 murder. Therefore it cannot be conclusively said that
 murders were committed for a motive which evidences
 total depravity and meanness. As such aggravating
 circumstance no. 11 is not available in the present
 case. (12) Accused has committed murder of his helpless wife
 and two minor sons in a cold blooded manner and
 drowned Kalpesh after tying his hands in a barrel
 containing water. But the element of provocation is
 present in this case. As such aggravating circumstance
 no. 12 is partly available in the present case.

(13) Material on record indicates that accused has
 committed crime in a brutal manner which pricked or
 shocked not only the judicial conscience but even the
 {103} CC 1-25.doc

 conscience of the society. As such aggravating
 circumstance no. 13 is also fully available in the
 present case. 92. Let us now examine that what are the mitigating

circumstances in the present case. Mitigating Circumstances: From the report of accused received from the

 prison authority, it can be seen that after he was

 admitted in the prison, he was made aware of the

 discipline and prison rules and his counseling was

 done. He is placed in the high security section of the

 prison and he is regularly taking his food and he is
 {104} CC 1-25.doc

observing and following rules. He is of quiet nature and

he follows daily instructions given by officers and

employees of prison. He gives proper and satisfactory

answers to the questions asked to him. He maintains

cleanliness. His behavior in the prison is satisfactory. In the psychological evaluation report submitted

by board of six doctors including Dean, Government

Medical College, Head of professor and Head of

Psychiatry, Assistant Professors and expert doctors in

clinical Psychology and medical superintendent, it is

stated that there is no evidence of malingering. He is

not pretending to be mentally ill. There is no evidence

of psychopathology. The Board in answer to question

"Is there capability in examinee to be reformed?" has

answered, "Though, examinee has admitted to killing

his wife, with wooden bat, while she was asleep, in

early hours of morning, he is persistent with denial

about killing two children. He also mentioned about his

inability to forgive himself about what happened. To

overcome the guilt, he is engaging in jaapa and puja

rituals. He does have an aging mother, to which, he

intends to care for. He expressed concern about the

son's education. In view of limited self acceptance, in
 {105} CC 1-25.doc

 spite of there being family reasons to live, there is less

 scope for reformation in the examinee." Considering the above answer we do not agree

 with the opinion expressed by Medical Board that there

 is less scope for reformation in the accused. Our view is

 based on prison report as well as the statements made

 in the answer given by Medical Board. In the light of the above, we hold that mitigating

 circumstance No. 3 would be available in the present

 case. (4) There is no material on record that accused was
 mentally defective and the defect impaired his capacity
 to appreciate the circumstance of his criminal conduct.
 As such mitigating circumstance no. 4 would not be
 available. (5) The circumstance of illicit relations of Sangita with
 PW13 has led to commission of murders. This in our
 view had been the effect of giving rise to mental
 imbalance in that given situation. In the facts and
 circumstances of the case, the accused believed that
 he was morally justified in committing murder of his
 wife. As such this circumstance would be available in
 the present case. (6) This is not a case based upon testimony of sole eye
 {106} CC 1-25.doc

 witness. The prosecution on the basis of circumstances
 which are proved beyond reasonable doubt has fully
 established the case that accused has committed the
 crime. Therefore, this circumstance would not be
 available in the present case. 93. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, we find that, in the

present case, three aggravating circumstances i.e. aggravating

circumstances No. 7, 10, 13 are fully available and aggravating

circumstance No. 12 is partly available against the Accused.

Whereas, mitigating circumstances No.1, 2, 3 and 5 are fully

available. 94. Infidelity of wife has provoked accused to commit her

murder. Possibility cannot be ruled out that due to infidelity of

wife, accused might be under impression that Siddhesh and

Kalpesh were not his sons. In the fit of anger, therefore, he

appears to have killed his two sons. Fact remains that accused

has not used any dangerous weapon, but has used cricket bat

and stone to inflict blows on the head of deceased. In the spot panchnama (Exhibit-30), a noose of cotton rope

was found tied to the roof. It appears that the accused intended

to commit suicide after committing the murders. However, he

could not muster the courage to do so and he went to police

station and outside the police station, he confessed to his brother
 {107} CC 1-25.doc

PW-1 that he has committed murders of his wife and sons. We

are of the view that this factor needs to be taken into

consideration as one of the mitigating circumstance in favour of

the accused. 95. After assessing the aggravating and mitigating

circumstances, as enumerated hereinabove and keeping in mind

the principles laid down in " Shabnam " (supra), that life

imprisonment is rule and death sentence is an exception,

coupled with the fact that infidelity of his wife has led the

Accused to commit the murders and the Accused intended to

commit suicide after committing the murders, we are of the

considered view that this case does not fall within the four

corners of the principles of rarest of rare case in which death

penalty should be awarded. However, taking into consideration the brutal manner in

which the Accused has killed his wife and two innocent sons,

particularly Kalpesh, we are of the view that sentence of

imprisonment of life would be grossly inadequate. 96. The prosecution has failed to bring on record anything to

show that the Accused is continuous threat to the society and

that he is beyond reform and rehabilitation, which is required to

be proved by the prosecution as held by the Apex Court in the
 {108} CC 1-25.doc

case of "Rajesh Kumar V/s State through Government of

NCT of Delhi."23 97. While deciding the quantum of punishment, we are guided

by the decision of the Apex Court in "Swamy Shraddananda @

Murli Manohar Mishra V/s State of Karnataka24" , wherein it

is held: 98. We are inclined to follow the aforesaid middle path as laid

down by the Apex Court in "Swamy Shraddananada" (supra). 99. Taking into consideration circumstances of the case, in our

view, it will be in the interest of justice to commute the death

sentence in the sentence of life imprisonment with further

direction that the Accused must serve in jail for a minimum

period of 30 years without remission, before his case can be

considered for premature release. 100. Criminal Appeal is therefore, partly allowed. Death

sentence awarded to the Accused by the learned Sessions Court
 {110} CC 1-25.doc

is commuted to the sentence of life imprisonment. However, we

direct that the Accused Santosh s/o Jaydatta Kokane must serve

in jail for minimum period of 30 years, without remission before

consideration of his case for premature release. 101. The Reference stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. 102. The Reference and the Criminal Appeal are accordingly

disposed of.