% 18.05.2023 1. The Petitioner before this Court has filed the present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the constitutional
 validity of the RBI's Master Circular on 'Frauds - Classification and
 Reporting' by Commercial Banks and Selected Financial Institutions dated
 01.07.2016. The contention of the Petitioner is that without following the
 principles of natural justice & fair play, the account of Respondent
 No.3/Company, has been declared as 'Fraud'. The Petitioner has prayed for
 the following reliefs: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:46:04
 mechanism to declare the account fraud, examine the same and
 quash it declaring that the same is ultra vires being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India in view of the mechanism
 of declaring account fraud being against the principle of audi
 alteram partem; 2. Issue a writ of certiorari or any other appropriate writ order
 or direction thereby calling for the records relating to issuance
 of letter No. SIB/VIG/GEN/18/2022-23 dated 12.01.2023 of the
 Respondent No.2 declaring the account of Respondent No. 3 as
 fraud by applying impugned master circular cit. 1.7.2016
 issued by Respondent No.1 and decision· to proceed against the
 petitioners on the basis of the said decision of declaring the
 account in question of M/s Savemax Wholesale Club Pvt ILd as
 fraud, examine the same and quash it 3. Issue a writ of prohibition or any other writ order or
 direction thereby restraining Respondent No. 2 from
 proceeding against the petitioners on the basis of impugned
 decision of declaring the account of M/s Savemax Wholesale
 Club Pvt Ltd as fraud, the same being violative of principles of
 natural justice. 4. Pass such other and further order(s) and grant such other
 reliefs in favour of the Petitioner that this Hon'ble Court deems
 just and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case and
 in the interest of justice and equity.‖ 2. While the matter was being argued, learned Counsel, at the outset, has
 drawn the attention of this Court towards the judgment delivered by the
 Apex Court in the case of State Bank of India & Others Vs. Rajesh
 Agarwal & Others , Civil Appeal No.7300/2022, and other connected
 matters. The Civil Appeals decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court arose
 out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Telangana, wherein the
 Petitioners therein challenged the vires of the Reserve Bank of India (Frauds
 Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:46:04
 Institutions) Directions 2016, issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The
 High Court of Telangana has held in the impugned judgment that the
 principles of natural justice must be read into the provisions of the Master
 Directions on Frauds. 3. The decision of the High Court of Telangana was assailed by the RBI
 and lender Banks before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. It was held by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court that the principles of natural justice, particularly the
 rule of audi alteram partem, has to be necessarily read into the Master
 Directions on Frauds to save it from the vice of arbitrariness. It was so held
 that as the classification of an account as fraud entails serious civil
 consequences for the borrower, the directions must be construed reasonably
 by reading into them the requirement of observing the principles of natural
 justice. It was held that the administrative proceedings which entail
 significant civil consequences must be read consistent with the principles of
 natural justice to meet the requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the
 rule of audi alteram partem ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it
 compliant with the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged
 under Article 14. The Master Directions on Frauds did not expressly
 provide the borrowers an opportunity of being heard before classifying the
 borrower's account as fraud. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, therefore, held
 that the principle of audi alteram partem must then be read into the
 provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. 4. Thus, to summarise, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment has
 held as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:46:04
 classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds. In
 addition, the decision classifying the borrower's account as
 fraudulent must be made by a reasoned order; and (vii) Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide
 an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying
 their account as fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into
 the provisions of the directions to save them from the vice of
 arbitrariness. 5. Paragraphs 81 to 83 of the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court read as under: 6. In light of the aforesaid judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, as argued by the learned Counsel for the Petitioner, no opportunity of
 hearing was granted to the Petitioner and the aforesaid fact has not been
 controverted by learned Counsel for the Respondent No.2 Bank. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:46:05 7. Accordingly, the order declaring the account of the Petitioner herein
 as 'Fraud' is hereby set aside. However, liberty is granted to the Respondent
 No.2 Bank to proceed ahead in accordance with law in light of the judgment
 delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms along with the
 pending applications. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, CJ

 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 MAY 18, 2023
 N.Khanna

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 24/09/2023 at 12:46:05