For the Petitioner(s) : Mr. Sankar Lodh, Advocate.
For the Respondent(s) : Mr. Rajib Saha, Addl. P.P.,
 Mr. Koomar Chakraborty, Advocate. Heard Mr. Sankar Lodh, learned counsel, appearing for

the petitioner, Mr. Rajib Saha, learned Additional Public

Prosecutor, appearing for the respondent-State and Mr. Koomar

Chakraborty, learned counsel appearing for the private

respondents. [2] This criminal petition under Section 528 of Bharatiya

Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short, 'BNSS'), is filed by the

accused petitioner-Sukanta Choudhury [here-in-after referred to

as the petitioner], for quashing the FIR registered at Amtali PS,

vide Amtali P.S. Case No. AMT 022/2025 under Sections 318,

115(2), 304(2) and 351 of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (for

short, 'BNS'). [3] The respondent no.2 lodged the said FIR with the

allegations-that the petitioner being an employee of Tripura

University, under the pretext of giving job to one of his family

members in said Tripura University had taken an amount of

Rs.2,00,000/- from him and also had taken an amount of

Rs.2,00,000/- from other people on the same pretext. When he

learnt about taking of such money by the petitioner from different

persons exercising fraud, he asked the petitioner to return his

amount. That on 03.03.2025, in the morning, the petitioner called

the respondent No.2 to discuss the matter and at around 12:00

pm on that day he along with his two friends went there and found

the petitioner with 8/10 other persons present there but on his

arrival, the petitioner denied to repay the money, rather abused

him with filthy languages and also physically assaulted him by fists

and blows causing physical injuries on his person. On hearing his

hue and cry, some other locals arrived there and meanwhile, the

petitioner snatched away his gold-chain from his neck and also Page 3 of 9 took his wallet in which around Rs.2,500/- was there and ran away

from the spot. [4] The police authority registered the case under the

above provisions of law and started investigation.

[5] Thereafter, both the said petitioner and respondent

Nos.2 & 3 jointly submitted another petition earlier for quashing of

the said FIR bearing Crl. Petn. No. 16 of 2025. However, the said

petition was withdrawn by them with liberty to file a fresh petition

on behalf of the petitioner for quashing the same. Thereafter, the

present petition has been filed. [6] Respondent No.3 also filed an FIR with identical

allegations in the said Police Station against the present petitioner.

It is stated that both respondent No.2 and 3 are friends and the

said FIR of respondent No.3 has been tagged with the instant

case. [7] During hearing, learned counsel, Mr. Sankar Lodh,

appearing for the petitioner, submits that the matter has been

amicably settled between the parties and amongst the provisions

of Sections 318, 115(2), 304(2) and 351 of BNS, only offence

under Section 304(2) i.e. alleged snatching of gold-chain, is non-

compoundable and all other offences are compoundable.

[8] Learned counsel, Mr. Lodh, also submits that both the

petitioner and respondent Nos.2 & 3 have settled the matter and

thus, there is no further grievance of the respondents persists. Page 4 of 9 Therefore, the FIR may be quashed exonerating the petitioner

from the criminal responsibility of said case.

[9] Learned Additional Public Prosecutor, Mr. Rajib Saha,

appearing for the State submits that the State has no objection if

the petition is allowed. He also further contends that the informant

earlier submitted one affidavit to the Investigating Officer (for

short, 'IO') informing that the matter was settled and then the IO

sent one notice to him to appear before him (IO), but he has not

appeared. [10] Learned counsel, Mr. Koomar Chakraborty, representing

respondent Nos.2 and 3, submits that they have no objection if the

petition of the petitioner is allowed. [11] The petitioner has submitted an agreement of

settlement signed both by him and said respondent Nos.2 & 3

jointly wherein it is stated that the petitioner has returned the

money amounting to Rs.2,00,000/- to the respondent No.2 and he

has also sought apology for using filthy languages towards the

respondent no.3. It is further stated that respondent Nos.2 & 3

have forgiven the first party and they do not bear any further

grievance against each other. He has also sought apology towards

the respondent No.3 for physically assaulting him. Therefore, none

of them further carry any grievance against each other. As already

stated above, one of the alleged offences, i.e. Section 304(2) of

BNS, is not compoundable. Therefore, just on the basis of such

settlement, parties cannot be allowed to compound the matter. Page 5 of 9 [12] Mr. Lodh, learned counsel for the petitioner in this

regard relies on a decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of

N.S. Gnaneshwaran Etc. Versus the Inspector of Police and

Another, 2025 LiveLaw (SC) 654, wherein the appellants

(accused Nos.3 and 6) in C.C. No. 16 of 2006 were arrayed in said

case on the basis of a complaint lodged by a Bank (respondent

No.2 of said case) alleging that the accused persons caused

wrongful loss to the Bank to the tune of Rs. 25.89 lakhs, which

culminated into filing of charge sheet against nine accused

persons, including the appellants. The allegation against appellant

No. 1 was that he was instrumental in orchestrating the fraudulent

diversion of funds sanctioned to one M/s Vinayaka Corporation and

facilitate the encashment of multiple cheques drawn from the

fraudulently obtained credit limit, using a network of relatives,

employees, and fictitious persons. Further allegation against him

was that he had forged signatures and diverted the funds through

various accounts linked to his family members and associates.

Parallel to said criminal case, the Bank also initiated recovery

proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal and on the prayer

of wife of accused No.7, the High Court quashed the FIR so far it

pertains to her. In identical cases initiated by the Central Bureau

of Investigation (for short, 'CBI') against the appellants and other

accused based on the same set of transactions, a settlement was

arrived at between the principal accused and the Bank for an

amount of Rs. 52,79,000/- and taking note of this compromise,

the High Court proceeded to quash the proceedings against the Page 6 of 9 accused on the ground of parity and extended similar relief to the

appellants in said case. Bank also subsequently floated a One Time

Settlement (for short, 'OTS') scheme, which was availed of by the

accused nos. 4 and 5 and upon full repayment of the dues, the

Bank also recorded its satisfaction in the pending recovery

proceedings, which were dismissed on such settlement. In view of above said subsequent change of

circumstances and also taking note of such settlement, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court observed that allowing the criminal proceedings to

continue would serve no meaningful purpose, particularly when the

dispute between the parties was already resolved through a full

and final settlement and there was no continuing public interest in

such circumstances. Accordingly, the Hon'ble Apex Court quashed

the criminal proceeding. [13] In State of Madhya Pradesh Versus Laxmi

Narayan and others, (2019) 5 SCC 688, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court observed that while exercising the power under Section 482

of the Code to quash the criminal proceedings in respect of non-

compoundable offences, which are private in nature and do not

have a serious impact on the society, on the ground that there is a

settlement/compromise between the victim and the offender, the

High Court is required to consider the antecedents of the accused,

the conduct of the accused, namely, whether the accused was

absconding or not and why he was absconding, how he had Page 7 of 9 managed with the complainant to enter into a compromise etc.

The entire relevant paragraphs are extracted hereunder: [15] In the case in hand, the matter has been settled by the

parties and the petitioner has also paid the amount of alleged

cheating to the respondent No.2. In such a situation, it will be a

futile exercise to proceed further with the criminal proceeding as

initiated based on the FIR of the respondent No.2. There is no

likelihood of ending of the same by way of conviction. The alleged

crime is private in nature though related to monetary transaction.

By way of terminating the criminal proceeding, as prayed for, the

good relation between the parties will also be restored.

[16] Considering all these aspects, the instant criminal

petition is allowed. The FIR No. AMT 022/25 of Amtali PS, is

hereby quashed. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of. JUDGE

Munna MUNNA SAHA Digitally signed by MUNNA SAHA
 Date: 2025.12.17 17:00:46 +05'30'