This writ petition is directed against the ruling of the authority for advance rulings (Income Tax) dated 30.03.2005 made in A.A.R.No.643 of 2004. 2. The petitioner and four others were the share holders in a Private Limited Company known as M/s.Vision Healthsource India Private Limited, registered under the Companies Act . Out of the paid-up share capital of the company which was Rs.10,00,000/-, divided into 1,00,000 equity shares of Rs.10/- each, the petitioner was holding 15,000 shares while the other four shareholders were holding the remaining shares. The company was carrying on business in medical billing which is an Information Technology enabling industry. The petitioner and two others were shareholders in a foreign company namely M/s. Vision Health Source Inc., incorporated in USA engaged in out-sourcing business in processing medical bills and medical insurance claims. The petitioner and other two shareholders have also decided to transfer all their respective shares in M/s.Vision Health Sources in USA. and they have obtained approval from the Reserve Bank of India for transferring their shares to one M/s.Perot Systems Investments BV and Perot Systems B.V. Two agreements were entered one relating to transfer of shares of US company M/s.Vision Healthsource Inc., called stock purchase agreement and another share purchase agreement in relation to M/s.Vision Healthsource India Private Limited. The writ petition relates to the transfer of shares by the petitioner and others held in M/s.Vision Healthsource India Private Limited under share purchase agreement dated 15.04.2003. In accordance with the said share purchase agreement the consideration for the sale of shares was in the following two terms:- 3. The closing date by which the first amount of 2.3 million dollar to be paid is 2003-2004 and thereafter the contingent payment in three years namely 2004, 2005 and 2006 to be made. Out of the five shareholders in M/s.Vision Healthsource India Private Limited, the petitioner and his wife were non-resident live in USA while others are Indian residents. The manner of determination of the contingent payment is provided in the share purchase agreement. The share purchase agreement is supported by other documents like the employment agreement with one V.Jain who was an Indian Shareholder apart from a non-competition agreement with all the shareholders. 4. It is stated that the petitioner has approached the first respondent by making an application under Section 245 (Q) (1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) seeking advance ruling of certain questions relating to the liability of capital gains tax in respect of the transfer of 15,000 equity shares held by him in the Indian Company namely M/s. Vision Healthsource India Private Limited covered under the share purchase agreement dated 15.04.2003, with his contention that as per his interpretation of the agreement, the liability of the capital gains tax accrues only when there is a transfer of capital assets and consideration is ascertainable and therefore according to him, in the circumstances that the sale consideration for transfer was not determinable and dependent upon contingency, the payment of capital gains would not arise on the transfer of shares held by him. 5. On the basis of the direction from the first respondent-Authority the petitioner has framed the questions to be ruled by the first respondent which are as follows:- 6. As far as question No.(iv) is concerned the same was not pressed by the petitioner and therefore no ruling was pronounced. 7. In respect of question Nos.1 to 3 the first respondent by the impugned order has pronounced the following ruling:- 8. The above said rulings of the first respondent are challenged by the petitioner in this writ petition on the ground that the ruling in respect of the initial lumpsum payment and contingent payment by which it was held that the initial lumpsum payment would be treated as consideration for the transfer of shares and therefore the said consideration is taxable under capital gains and in respect of contingent payments in three years since the same is not ascertainable it does not attract the payment of capital gains but at the same time it would be taxable under the head salaries and according to the petitioner it is contrary to Sections 45 , 48 , 28 and 17 of the Act, that even in respect of the closing payment of Rs.2.3 million US dollars as well as the 7 million US dollars of contingent payment though they are in respect of the transfer of shares the consideration are indeterminable and therefore no liability of the capital gain could be made under Section 45 of the Act, that indeterminable contingent payment does not form part of the consideration while including salaries as provided in lieu of or in addition to salary as taxable under the said head is opposed to the provisions of the Act especially in the circumstances that the share purchase agreement and the Reserve Bank of India approval discloses that the sale consideration is payable in respect of the shares taking into consideration the components of close payments as well as contingent payments, that the salary payable as per the associated employment agreement forms part of the stock purchase agreement and not share purchase agreement as stock purchase agreement relating to the transfer of shares to the U.S.based company while share purchase agreement alone deals with the transfer of shares with Indian companies and that even if it is admitted that the employment agreement is attached to stock purchase agreement, the contingent payments or in relation to the payments of performance under the employment agreement and as non-existent, in the share purchase agreement and the salary payable only for ensuring performance. 9. On the other hand it is the stand of the respondents in the counter affidavit especially the second respondent that the petitioner has filed a return before the assessment authority namely the Assistant Director of Income Tax (International Taxation), Chennai for assessment year 2004-2005 (accounting year 2003-2004) declaring the income-tax of Rs.8,04,465/- on 29.10.2004 and he has declared nil income for capital gains. The Assessee in the working sheet along with the letter dated 17.11.2004 has computed long term capital gain on sale of equity shares in M/s.Vision Healthsource India Private Limited at Rs.1,57,25,966/- claiming exemption on the investment of the amount of Rs.1,57,30,000/- in NABARD under Section 54 ED/54 F of the Act and in respect of the contingent payment received in 2004 the petitioner has stated that it would be covered by the return of Income Tax for the assessment year 2005-2006 to be filed. 10. It is the case of the second respondent that when the petitioner / assessee has approached the first respondent for advance ruling the same is having binding effect as per Section 245 (S) (1) (c) unless there is a change in law or facts on which the advance ruling has been pronounced. It is the case of the second respondent that inasmuch as it is not even the case of the petitioner that the first respondent Authority has acted contrary to its jurisdiction or has violated the principles of natural justice or acted in such a manner it would violate the legal rights of the petitioner, the writ petition challenging the ruling is not maintainable. It is also the case of the respondents by relying upon a judgment of the Supreme Court reported in (1989) 176 ITR 169 ( R.B.Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatechand Nursing Das v. Settlement Commission (I.T. and W.T .)) which relates to the settlement commission's decision that in the jurisdiction exercised by the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the Court is concerned with the legality of the procedure followed or not as to the validity of the order. It is also stated that the benefit of approach to the advance ruling authority is enabled for the benefit of the non-residents so as to enable such person to get the clear picture of tax liability even before the assessment in respect of the transaction which is a high level body presided over by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court and the petitioner having preferred of the advance ruling authority and having invited a ruling it is not open to him to say that the said ruling should be quashed. 11. The basic contention of the learned senior counsel for the petitioner is that inasmuch as under share purchase agreement, which has nothing to do with the associated employment agreement, there is no definite amount of profit computable in respect of transfer of shares and therefore the question of treating it as a capital gain and making the assessment either on 2.3 U.S. million dollars or 7.7 million U.S. dollars does not arise. His contention is that the first respondent having ruled that in respect of the contingent amount which is not ascertainable and therefore having rejected even the case of the Department that the same should be treated as a profit or gain or business or provision under Section 28 of the Act has committed a gross error in holding that the petitioner is liable in respect of the salaries received under the associated employment agreement under Section 17 of the Act. His further contention is that the salary receivable to the petitioner under the associated employment agreement which relates to the share purchase agreement is relating to the service to be rendered by the petitioner and has nothing to do with the consideration for transfer of shares and therefore according to him the first respondent ought not have relied upon Section 17 of the Act taking into consideration the salaries payable to the petitioners under associated employment agreement in Ex.B. He would state that under the share purchase agreement dated 15.04.2003 which relates to the agreement to purchase from the shareholders and the shareholders agreeing to sell and the purchase price has been stated as up to 9.3 million U.S. dollars in the manner that out of which 2.3 U.S. million dollars to be treated as closing payment and the remaining contingent payments payable in the first, second and third years namely, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the consideration for the transfer is the payment of the amount and it has nothing to do with the employment agreement Ex.B-1. He would submit that the contents of the associated employment agreement dated 15.04.2003 especially relating to the term 'employment' has no relationship with the share purchase agreement at all. It is his further contention that when such associated employment agreement has been entered not with all the five shareholders of the company and only in respect of the petitioner and another employee the contents of such agreement in relation to the employment wherein it is agreed by the petitioner that in the event of the petitioner's termination from the services due to the reasons of material failure to adhere to any critical policy, gross negligence or willful misconduct or commission of an act of fraud embezzlement or theft involving more than 1,000 U.S. Dollars or conviction, of, or plea of noto contendere to, a felony or for a crime involving moral turpitude undertaking that in such an act, he would not be entitled for any proceeds from the future payments made under the purchase agreement including without limitation any contingent payments which may be received will be paid back to the company by way of forfeiture can only be treated as a penalty and can never be linked with purchase agreement and anything related with the consideration thereon and therefore according to him the ruling of the first respondent in basing reliance on the contents of the employment agreement is outside the scope of reference. To substantiate his contention that the capital gain assessment under Sections 45 and 48 of the Act can be only on the determined amount he would rely upon the judgments reported in (i)128 ITR 294 (SC) ( C.I.T. v. B.C.Srinivasa Setty ) (ii)273 ITR 1 (SC) ( CIT v. D.P.Sandu Bros . Chembur P. Ltd.) (iii)137 ITR 493 (Bombay) (Evans Fraser & Co. Ltd., v. C.I.T.), and (iv)161 ITR 524 (SC) C.I.T. v. Hindustan Housing & Land Devpt. Trust (S.C.)

Therefore in short his contention is that even if it is taken taken that 2.3 U.S. million dollars to be treated as an amount of consideration ascertainable which may be chargeable for capital gain, in respect of the un-ascertained amount applying Section 17 of the Act is not valid in law apart from the fact that even in respect of the contingent payment for the salary payable to the petitioner and another person who are only two among the five total shareholders is taken that would be an arbitrary decision affecting even other shareholders. 12. On the other hand it is the submission of the learned counsel appearing for the Income Tax Department-the respondents that the petitioner having invited a ruling from the first respondent as per Section 245 (S) of the Act is bound by the decision. She would also submit that inasmuch as the first respondent whose rulings are invited by the petitioner is at New Delhi, this Court could not have jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. She would also submit that even though there are no specific rulings or procedures or regulations enabling any party who is aggrieved by the ruling of the first respondent authority which is headed by a retired Supreme Court Judge that an appeal or a proceeding can be initiated only in the Supreme Court, normally that appeals are being filed to the Supreme Court. She would also further submit that the entire averments of the petitioner in the affidavit does not disclose the first respondent has either acted outside its jurisdiction or the ruling was without giving an opportunity and therefore it is in violative of principles of natural justice and on the other hand the intention of the petitioner is to find fault with the decision of the ruling authority and not decision making process and therefore the High Court cannot decide about the validity or otherwise of the decision. She also would rely upon a judgment reported in 201 ITR 611 (SC) ( Jyotendrasinhji v. S.I.Tripathi ) to substantiate her contention that when the finding of the settlement commission has become final the validity of it can only be challenged on the ground that there is a defect in decision making. It is also her submission that it is not as if the amount should be treated as contingent inasmuch as the maximum amount of 9.3 U.S. million dollars had been agreed between the parties. She would submit that when the employment conferred to the petitioner and another person is for three years and the contingent amount payable to the extent of 7 U.S. million dollars is also in the said period, the terms of the service agreement has the relationship with the share purchase agreement and there is no illegality or irregularity in the ruling given by the first respondent. 13. A perusal of the entire documents including the rulings given by the first respondent makes it is clear that the basic issue that is raised by the petitioner in this petition is as to whether the ruling of the first respondent in directing that the lumpsum payment equal to 2.3 million US dollars as closing payment attracts capital gain and hence chargeable under Sections 45 and 48 of the Act and in so far as the contingent payment for three years namely in the end of 31.03.2004, 31.03.2005 and 31.03.2006 with a minimum of 7 million US dollars having decided that the same cannot be treated as a capital gain and therefore it cannot be even assessable under Section 28 of the Act, can the same be linked to Section 17 of the Act based on the associated employment Agreement. In effect, it is clear that the petitioner seeks this Court to decide while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India that the ruling of the first respondent and the basis of the said decision is not legal. As correctly submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent it is nowhere in the case of the petitioner throughout that while passing such ruling the first respondent has either not followed the procedure or failed to give adequate opportunity or the decision is basically against law except to say that the associate employment agreement should not be linked with the share purchase agreement. 14. On the other hand it is not also factually in dispute that the said associated employment agreement formed part of the share purchase agreement. The contents of the associated employment agreement makes it very clear in its preamble which is as follows:- 15. It was taking the said factual circumstances the first respondent advance ruling authority has given a categoric factual finding which is as follows:- 16. In such circumstances, it cannot be said that even on the merits of the findings the first respondent has not considered the factual issue. On the other hand, the entire issue has been considered in a threadbare manner and there is absolutely no reason for this Court to come to a conclusion that the finding is either perverse or totally opposed to law. On the factual assertion of the entire material, it has been considered by the first respondent authority and therefore there is no scope for this Court to hold as if the reference did not relate to the salary receivable by the petitioner under the associated employment agreement. 17. In 201 ITR 611 (SC) (referred to supra) the Supreme Court while dealing with the finding of the settlement commission under Chapter XIX-A of the Act by way of an order passed under Sections 245 D (4) and 245-I wherein the order of settlement is stated to be conclusive, the Supreme court has held that the decision of the settlement commission in interpreting a Trust Deed even if such interpretation is not coorect it would not be a ground for interference by the Supreme Court even in an appeal filed from the order of settlement commission in Section 254-D of the Act, holding that a wrong interpreting of a deed cannot be said to be a violation of the provisions of the Act, equally holding that the interpretation placed upon a deed by the commission does not bind the authorities in proceedings relating to other assessment years. 18. In that judgment while dealing with the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India apart from that of the Supreme Court under Article 36 , the Supreme Court has confirmed with approval the earlier judgment in (1989) 176 ITR 169 that the Court is concerned with the legality of the procedure followed and not the validity of the order and the Courts under Judicial Review are concerned not with the decision but with the decision making. The relevant portion of the judgment of the Supreme Court in this regard is as follows:- 19. The provisions under the Act relating to the advance rulings is incorporated under Chapter XIX-B next to the settlement proceedings by the Finance Act 1993 with effect from 01.06.1993. That the definition of advance ruling in so far as it relates to the factual situation in this case is under Section 245 (N) (a) (ii) which is as follows:- (a) on the applicant who had sought it; (b) in respect of the transaction in relation to which the ruling had been sought; and (c) on the commissioner, and the income-tax authorities subordinate to him, in respect of the applicant and the said transaction. (2) The advance ruling referred to in sub-section (1) shall be binding as aforesaid unless there is a change in law or facts on the basis of which the advance ruling has been pronounced 20. It is also relevant to the point out that under Section 245 (T) of the Act the ruling of the advance ruling authority becomes void if the same is obtained by fraud, misrepresentation of the facts, etc., Therefore the petitioner who has voluntarily invited the ruling from the first respondent is certainly bound by the ruling unless it is shown that the procedure followed by the authority while passing the said ruling is not in accordance with law and the same is basically opposed to law or against the principles of natural justice. 21. Learned counsel for the Income Tax Department-respondents who has also raised an issue about the maintainability of the writ petition in this court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India stating that even though there is no bar for this Court to entertain the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, infact against the orders of the authority for advance ruling, appeals are filed before the Supreme Court, however has produced an order of the Supreme Court passed in the Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) Nos.21519 of 2008 dated 08.09.2008 preferred against order dated 09.05.2008 of the authority for advance ruling income tax, New Delhi, passed in AAR 736/06, wherein the Hon 'ble Apex Court by putting a query as to why the petitioner has not moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has permitted the petitioner therein to withdraw the said SLP with permission to move the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and the following is the operative portion of the order:- 22. The distinction sought to be made between Section 45 of the Act which is the computation provision and Section 48 which is a charging section , that when the computation provision cannot apply the same is applicable in respect of charging section also as held by the Supreme Court in 128 ITR 294 (SC) (referred to supra) and the same is not applicable to the facts of the present case at all. Even if it is taken on fact of the present case that in respect of the contingent amounts payable in three years since the same is not computable the advance ruling authority has come to the conclusion that it cannot be treated as a capital gain but at the same time treated as a salary under Section 17 (3) (2) of the Act by treating it as a profit in lieu of salaries or in addition to the salary the same cannot be said to be against law. The reliance placed by the learned senior counsel on the judgment of the Supreme Court in 273 ITR 1 (referred to supra) has no application since that is a case relating to tenancy right surrender of such right would attract Section 45 of the Act and therefore it was held that the same cannot be treated as a casual and non-recurring deposit under Section 10 (3) of the Act subject to tax under Section 56 . 23. It was on that factual situation the Supreme Court has held that the tenancy right being capital asset, surrender would attract capital gain under Section 45 of the Act, if Section 45 is not applicable it cannot be taxed at all in the following words:- Certainly the present finding given by the Authority in respect of the salaries receivable under the Associated Employment Agreement which is stated to be assessable under Section 17(3)(2) of the Act cannot be compared to the surrendering of tenancy right. It is relevant to point out that all the judgments which have been relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner are cases were adjudication process were completed against which appeals filed and the appellate tribunals orders have been questioned. 24. Even though it is true as contended by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner that the ruling given by the first respondent authority is binding upon the party who has actually referred the same and invited such a ruling, it cannot be said that the said order is final and therefore the jurisdiction of this Court could be ousted. Certainly as decided by the Supreme Court in the case reported in 201 ITR 611 (SC) (referred to supra), in case of procedural irregularities in arriving at the process of decision making, this Court can certainly interfere in the writ jurisdiction. On the other hand whether on the factual matrix by construction of two documents namely Associated Employment Agreement and Share Purchase Agreement which cannot be said to be totally different as one document is inter-linked with the other, by applying Section 17 of the Act it cannot be construed that the first respondent has gone beyond the jurisdiction and beyond the scope of reference. 25. In fact question No.3 which has been referred by the petitioner which is as follows:- 26. In view of the same the writ petition fails and the same is dismissed. srk

To 1. The Additional Commissioner of Income Tax (A.A.R) New Delhi,
 Authority for Advance Rulings (Income Tax), New Delhi. 2. The Director of Income Tax (International Taxation), 
 Chennai 600 034