% 15.05.2023 1. The Petitioners before this Court have filed the present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the constitutional
 validity of the RBI's Master Circular on 'Frauds - Classification and
 Reporting' by Commercial Banks and Selected Financial Institutions dated
 01.07.2016. The contention of the Petitioners is that without following the
 principles of natural justice & fair play, the account of Respondent
 No.3/Company has been declared as 'Fraud'. The Petitioners have prayed
 for the following reliefs: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:50
 or directions, to quash and set aside the impugned
 Master Circular dated 01.07.2016 . bearing number
 DBS.CO.CFMC.BC.No.1/23.04.00112016-17 issued by
 the Respondent No. 1 as 'the same being
 unconstitutional, arbitrary, discriminatory, malafide,
 biased, unjust, unilateral, against the principles of
 natural justice and hence in violation of Article 14 of
 the Constitution of India; (b) Hold and declare that the impugned, unilateral
 action of Respondent No.2, declaring and classifying
 the account of the Company as a Fraud Account on
 22.12.2020, as void ab initio and hence liable to be
 quashed and set aside and annul/cancel all
 consequential actions/proceedings arising from such a
 declaration; (c) To direct the Respondent No. 2, to place on record
 the copies of all those documents and circums~ances
 which have been relied upon by the Respondent No. 2
 before declaring the Petitioners and the Company as
 "Fraud"; (d) Direct the Respondent No.2 to grant an opportunity
 of hearing to the Petitioners to put present their case
 effectively pursuant to the receipt of the copies of all
 the aforementioned documents which may have been
 relied upon by the Respondent No.2 before declaring
 the account of the Company as 'Fraud; (e) Pass any order (s) as this Hon'ble Court may deem
 fit and proper in the interests of justice." 2. While the matter was being argued, learned Counsel, at the outset, has
 drawn the attention of this Court towards the judgment delivered by the
 Apex Court in the case of State Bank of India & Others Vs. Rajesh
 Agarwal & Others , Civil Appeal No.7300/2022, and other connected
 matters. The Civil Appeals decided by the Hon'ble Supreme Court arose W.P.(C) 642/2021 Page 2 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:50
 out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Telangana, wherein the
 Petitioners therein challenged the vires of the Reserve Bank of India (Frauds
 Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial
 Institutions) Directions 2016, issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The
 High Court of Telangana has held in the impugned judgment that the
 principles of natural justice must be read into the provisions of the Master
 Directions on Frauds. 3. The decision of the High Court of Telangana was assailed by the RBI
 and lender Banks before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. It was held by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court that the principles of natural justice, particularly the
 rule of audi alteram partem, has to be necessarily read into the Master
 Directions on Frauds to save it from the vice of arbitrariness. It was so held
 that as the classification of an account as fraud entails serious civil
 consequences for the borrower, the directions must be construed reasonably
 by reading into them the requirement of observing the principles of natural
 justice. It was held that the administrative proceedings which entail
 significant civil consequences must be read consistent with the principles of
 natural justice to meet the requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the
 rule of audi alteram partem ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it
 compliant with the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged
 under Article 14. The Master Directions on Frauds did not expressly
 provide the borrowers an opportunity of being heard before classifying the
 borrower's account as fraud. The Hon'ble Supreme Court, therefore, held
 that the principle of audi alteram partem must then be read into the
 provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:51 4. Thus, to summarise, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment has
 held as under: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:51 (vi) The principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers
 must be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the
 conclusions of the forensic audit report, and be allowed to make
 representations before the banks/ JLF before their account is
 classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds. In
 addition, the decision classifying the borrower's account as
 fraudulent must be made by a reasoned order; and (vii) Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide
 an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying
 their account as fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into
 the provisions of the directions to save them from the vice of
 arbitrariness. 5. Paragraphs 81 to 83 of the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court reads as under: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:51 6. In light of the aforesaid judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, as argued by the learned Counsel for the Petitioners, no opportunity
 of hearing was granted to the Petitioners and the aforesaid fact has not been
 controverted by learned Counsel for the Respondent No.2 Bank. 7. Accordingly, the order declaring the account of the Respondent No.3
 herein as 'Fraud' is hereby set aside. However, liberty is granted to the
 Respondent No.2 Bank to proceed ahead in accordance with law in light of
 the judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms along with the
 pending applications. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, CJ

 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 MAY 15, 2023
 hsk W.P.(C) 642/2021 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/09/2023 at 08:20:51