% 11.12.2023 1. The petitioner in the instant writ petition has prayed for the following
 reliefs: Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select Financial
 Institutions dated 01.07.2016, as amended from time to time without
 providing an opportunity of being heard to the Petitioner; c) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ or direction
 directing the Respondent No. 2 to withdraw any communication, notice or
 intimation issued to any third party or persons regarding the illegal and
 arbitrary declaration of the Petitioner's account as a red flag account
 and/or as fraud by the Respondent Bank; This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/12/2023 at 20:53:08 [2] d) Issue a declaration or appropriate writ or direction declaring the
 Master Directions on Fraud - Classification and Reporting by Commercial
 Banks and Select Financial Institutions dated 01.07.2016, as amended
 from time to time to be non est to the extent that it allows the banks to
 classify the account as fraud without following the principles of natural
 justice; 2. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits
 that the impugned declaration of the petitioner's account as fraud is
 essentially based on Fraud Monitoring Report (hereinafter 'FMR') dated
 20.04.2021. 3. According to the learned senior counsel, neither before the
 preparation of FMR nor, thereafter, the petitioner was afforded any
 opportunity of hearing to explain his conduct. 4. Learned senior counsel, therefore, places reliance on the decision of
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State Bank of India and Ors. Vs
 Rajesh Agarwal and Ors1 . 5. This court vide order dated 05.12.2023 directed the respondent-bank
 to take instructions to the aforesaid limited aspect. In view thereof,
 respondent-Bank has placed on record the reply wherein beside others, it has
 also been stated that an e-mail communication dated 03.09.2019 was sent to
 the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the group company to which the
 petitioner was one of the members. 6. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-Bank submits
 that in the said e-mail communication, it was unequivocally stated that the
 noticee was to explain the conduct as to why the account of the petitioner
 should not be reported as a fraud in line with RBI guidelines. 2023 SCC online SC 342. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/12/2023 at 20:53:08 [3] 7. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner then
 contends that since the FMR report unequivocally makes it clear that the
 basis of the impugned action is the report dated 20.04.2021 and, therefore,
 any anterior communication with respect to group companies or even to the
 petitioner would not satisfy the requirement of the opportunity of hearing as
 has been propounded by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh
 Agarwal and Ors. (supra). He further explains that even according to FMR,
 the date of occurrence is reported to be 31.07.2020. He then contends that in
 no case, the e-mail stated to have been sent by the respondent-Bank in their
 counter-affidavit would be construed to be sufficient compliance to the
 principles of natural justice in the instant case. 8. I have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the parties
 and perused the record. 9. The perusal of the bare facts would indicate that the impugned action
 is essentially and predominantly based on the FMR as has been referred by
 the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner. 10. It is to be noted that the date of occurrence therein is admittedly noted
 as 31.07.2020. It is thus seen that as per the legal position laid down by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Agarwal and Ors. (supra), the
 rule of audi alteram partem is sine qua non part of Master Directions on
 Fraud - Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select
 Financial Institutions dated 01.07.2016. The petitioner ought to have been
 extended the opportunity of hearing after an adverse report was received by
 the respondent-Bank, if the respondent was to take an action depending
 upon the said report. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/12/2023 at 20:53:09 [4] 11. Relevant paragraphs in the case of Rajesh Agarwal and Ors. (supra)
 read as under: 12. Since the same has not been done in the instant case, therefore, the
 action of the respondent-Bank in declaring the petitioner as a fraud deserves
 to be set aside. 13. In view of the aforesaid, the impugned action is set aside. However, it
 is observed that the respondent-Bank would be at liberty to proceed in
 accordance with law in light of the decision in the case of Rajesh Agarwal
 and Ors. (supra). This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/12/2023 at 20:53:09 [6] 14. It is made clear that any criminal action including FIR etc. which have
 been lodged and consequential proceedings pursuant thereto, will remain
 unaffected by this order. 15. In view of the aforesaid, the petition stands disposed of. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J
 DECEMBER 11, 2023/p/am

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/12/2023 at 20:53:09