Cyber Appeal No.4 of 2014

ICICI] Bank Lid. .. Petitioner
Vs.

Mr, Saniay Govind Dhande & Ors. .. Respondents

BERPORE: 2. Both these appeals have been heard together because they arise out of the
same judgment and order dated 16.01.2014 passed in Complaint No.30/2013 by
learned Adjudicating Officer, Principal Secretary(information Technology},
Government of Maharashtra. The essential facts of the case noted in brief on the
basis of averments in the Complaint show that Complainant Nos.1 and 2, Sanjay
Govind Dhande and Dr(Smt.) Medha Sanjay Dhande are the Directors of M/s

Sango Consultants Pvt. Lid, Pune which is Complainant No.3. The complainants
 

hold a Current Account with ICICI Bank, Aundh Branch(Respondent No.1) an
appellant herein. The above Current Account is linked with the mobile number
belonging to the complainants which was issued by a Vodafone Store a
Pune(Respondent No.2) representing Vodafone India Lid.(Respondent No.3) an

appellant herein. 3, it is complainants' case that between 6" to 196" September 2013, several
fraudulent find transfers in total for about Rs.19 lakhs were done from the above
account by unknown persons, According to the complainant, Vodafone did not
take adequate security measures to protect complainant's data available with them.
Vodafone issued a duplicate SIM of complainant's mobile number to fraudsters
without cross-checking the documents submitted by them with the identity
documents of complainant made available at the time of issue of the original SIM.
Such negligent act of Vodafone enabled the fraudsters to commut the fraudulent

fund transfers that caused financial loss to the complainants.
3, The chronology of important events appearing from the complaint is as

follows: Gi) It is the case of Vodafone thal a person claiming to be Dr.(Smt.)
'Medha Sanjay Dhande(Complainant No.2) visited VYodafone's Nagpur
franchisee office on 06.09.2013 with a request for replacement to SIM
made in the prescribed form along with the requisite documents of the
subseriber. The request was duly processed and a new SIM was
issued to the person who had visited the Store and it was activated on
the same day. The claim of the Complainant No.2 that on request the
non-functional SIM was replaced by Vodafone Store at Pune on
10.09.2013 has been accepted by Vodafone. Vodafone received
information of the fraudulent transfers through the concerned officer
in-charge of the police station on 14.09.2013. On 18.09.2013, on the
basis of internal investigation Vodafone informed the Police
Inspector, Cyber Crime Cell, Nagpur that on 06.09.2013 a fraudster
had obtained replacement of SIM for the mobile number of the
complainant but the same was issued under the belief that the
fraudster was the lawful owner of the SIM. Vodafone offered to
cooperate with the police and as required it submitted the relevant

documents te the Cyber Crime Cell, Pune on 26.09.2013. Gi) The complainants have submitted copy of their bank account

statement, copy of the FIR and also copy of the correspondence with
 

the bank and its officials dated 11", 16" and 21" September, 2013.
Vodafone have submitted copy of the Customer Agreement Form
dated 30.08.2012, copy of the PAN card and electricity bill of the
complainant, copy of documents submitted by the imposter, copy of
the SIM replacement request with documents submitted by the
subscriber, copies of correspondence with the police with documents

submitted to the Cyber Crime Cell, Pune. Gv) The stand of the ICIC] Bank is that complainant is a frequent
user and well-versed with the Internet Banking Facility of the ICICI
Bank. According to bank, the FIR filed by the complainant was under x 4. Learned AO has noted the arguments on behalf of Vodafone in detail which
aré fo the effect that H is only a service provider under the licence granted by the
Department of Telecom. It does not "possess, handle or deal with" any sensitive
personal data or information and hence Section 43A of the Information
Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act ) will not apply to a telecom service provider like
Vodafone. Further defence of Vodafone is that it has Customer Agreement
Form(CAP) only from Complainant No.2 in individual capacity and not as a
representative of other two complainants. The subscriber verification is not
included in the scope of reasonable security practices and procedures under Section 434. The identity and nature of sensitive personal data or information possessed
or handled by Vodafone has not been established. In any case, since there was no
intentional act for assisting the fraudster, therefore, no contravention of Section

43 {z) of the IT Act can be attributed. 8. Learned AO had the benefit of detailed investigation into the case by the
police and report submitted by it. Police investigation infer alta disclosed that the
money from complainant's account was transferred to 11 accounts of ICICT Bank
and some other accounts. Police could obtain from ICIC{ Bank accounts
documents with KYC documents only for 8 accounts. Police arrested Vinayak
Mahadev Tirlotkar in whose account money was transferred in two tranches and he

had withdrawn the amount totaling Rs.1,00,115/ by using ATM ecard. The details
 

of 10 transactions from complainant's account to "itzeasheard" with use of internet

via an IP address of Turkey were also collected,

<

& The police investigation disclosed that ICICI] Bank failed to notice
suspicious nature of altogether 22 illegal transactions from the account of the
complainant within two days for an amount of Rs.19,01,073/-. Since foreign IPs
were involved, bank should have verified before allowing the unusual transactions.
The bank did not provide CCTV footage of ATM as well as in-person cheque/cash
withdrawal at branch. There was nc verification whether the transaction OTP had
been received by the genuine customer. The bank had not followed the RBI
guidelines in order to comply with the KYC norms and AML related guidelines.
Police found that the address of aceused Vinayak Mahadev Tirlotkar provided by
KYC was bogus. Bank did not provide details of accounts opened during the last
one year under a particular bank official. Money was also transferred to a fake
account of ICICI Bank at Bangalore. That account holder was arrested in Mumbai
and his name was found to be different. ICICI Bank had failed to observe due
diligence to create a secured environment and had violated KYC norms with
impunity while permitting opening of accounts. Police also concluded that ICICI

Bank and its officials were not assisting the police in the investigation. 7, As per report of the police the conduct of Vodafone in the matte also

suffered from lacunaes. The fraudsters could successfully deactivate the mobile of 10 the complainant with the help of a Vodafone Store on 06.09.2013 and collected a
duplicate SIM for a mobile number which was linked to complainant's account.
The SIM Replacement Form mentioned no date. Replaced SIM was given to a
third person even after finding out that the person was not the SYM owner
(Smt.Medha Sanjay Dhande}. There was no due diligence on behalf of Vodafone
on several issues. The SIM Replacement Form was verified on the basis of a
passport copy of a male person whereas the owner is a female customer. The
address on the passport and the address on the original SIM Registration Form
were different. The mandatory verification through File Net System for SIM
replacement was not carried out because the system was said to be down at that
time. Vodafone did not provide the original documents submitted with SIM
Replacement Farm and provided only photocopy through email. The Vodafone
Store at Nagpur admitted that there was only a scanned copy of photo and no
original photo. The photo was of ex-Union Minister Shri Dayanidhi Maran.
Vodafone had non-functional CCTV cameras which were not changed in spite of
emails sent by the police. CCTV footage could be obtained only from camera
outside the Store building and that too for 03.09.2013 and not for 06.09.2013 when

the SUM replacement was done. 8. On the basis of all the relevant facts the learned AO held that the two big

names in the banking and telecom sectors, ICICI Bank and Vodafone, had badly let
 

Fey
fa

their customers down. They were totally non-repentant about their laxity
bordering on connivance which has resulted in this crime. It has been noted by the
learned AO that the bank had opened many account of bogus persons with fake
addressed and it showed that KYC norms were being violated with total impunity.
Bank was not cooperating nor it conducted any internal investigation. CCTV
footage of ATM and in-person withdrawal at branch was also not made available.
Foreign IP addresses and successive quick withdrawals did not raise any alerts
within the bank's system showing that security measures are not adequate.
Learned AO noticed the provisions of RBI Guidelines on KYC as well as on
security in respect of Electronic Banking and Cyber Frauds etc. and he found that
ihe Guidelines have been violated by not taking sufficient precautions as suggested

by the RBI. 9. Leared AO has taken note of an emotional letter written by the
complainant, Mr.Sanjay Govind Dhande to the MD and CEO of ICICI Bank. He
disclosed that he had served as Director, IIT, Kanpur for 11 years and received
Padmashree awards for services to the Nation. At the time of occurrence he was a
Member, National Security Advisory Board. However, the MD or her office did
not bother to give even a reply to the said letter. It only shows shabby treatment to
the customers and lack of arievance redressal mechanism. On the issues relating to

Vodafone, learned AO has held that there was direct nexus between blocking of 42 SIM cards of the complainant, issuance and use of a duplicate SIM card by the
fraudster and the unauthorized financial transactions from the account of the
complainant. The importance of mobile numbers for use in financial transactions
and other sensitive transactions is growing by leaps and bounds and it is not a
secret to telecom service providers like Vodafone. They earn huge revenues from
such valid use of mobile phones. The significance of SIM or a duplicate SIM can
best be understood by such service provider. In this case, the documents of ICICI
Bank show that not only bank transaction alerts but even OTP was sent to the
registered mobile number but in fact it went to the duplicate SIM card which was
issued purely on account of negligence bordering on connivance and laxity in
maintaining reasonable security measures; and by ignoring the standard procedures
for verification of documents for replacement of SIM with the original documents
and data available in the CAF of original SIM owner. But for such duplicate SIM
issued to the fraudster, the unauthorized financial transactions were not possible.
The fraud could still be prevented had Vodafone not blocked the original SIM card
of the complainant without contacting the original SIM owner. This prevented the
complainant from getting alerts in respect of unauthorized transactions from his
ICICyY Bank account. The security measure of Vodafone was hopelessly
inadequate because it has come on record that online File Net System was down

for days. The fraudster obtained a blank form from the Vodafone Store and soon 43 came back with forged details, a photo of a male person scanned on a plain paper
and no payment was obtained for duplicate car i fee. Even a cursory comparison or
check would have revealed the fraudulent nature of request for duplicate SIM. As
to why the Vodafone did not check whether original number was in use or not
remains a mystery. On the basis of aforesaid findings, leamed AO held that while
out of initial fraud of Rs.19 lakhs and odd, Rs.3.26 lakhs had been recovered, yet
the complainants were entitled to compensation of Rs.18 lakhs which would cover
their loss and legal fees etc. Vodafone was found to be a bigger wrongdoer and
hence, while ICICI] Bank was directed to pay damages to the tune of Rs.6 lakhs
only by way of compensation, Vodafone was directed to pay Rs.12 lakhs. The
payments were to be made within a month failing which compound interest of 12%

compounding monthly would be chargeable. 18. Learned counsel for Vodafone has raised all the technical pleas on the lines
of submissions earlier made before the AO and farther on account of provisions in
the IT Act . However, it is not found necessary to go into detailed discussion of
these submissions for the simple reason that Vodafone Idea Lid., was appellant in a
similar matter bearing Cyber Appeal No3 of 2018. The facts and issues of that
case were almost similar to the present case. There the complainant had his bank
account with Bank of India at Nagpur and he suffered a loss of about Rs.18.5 lakhs

out of which Rs. 15 lakhs was imposed as compensation payable by Vodafone. The

 
 

if

balance was held payable by Bank. Considering all the possible defence raised on
behalf of Vodafone, including those which have been raised in this appeal, this
Tribunal dismissed the appeal of Vodafone as well as Bank of India through a
judgment and order dated 20.12.2019. That judgment in Cyber Appeal No.3 of
2018 ( Bank of India Vs. Shri Sandeep & Anr. ) and Cyber Appeal No.3 of 2018
(Vodafone Idea Lid. Vs. Shri Sandeep Singhal & Any.) applies to the facts of
the present appeals on all fours. In that case the Vodafone was found Liable under Section 43 (g}, 43.4 of the IT Act whereas the Bank of India was found Hable only
under Section 43A of the Act. Here the pleas of ICIC! Bank are similar. But the

findings of learned AO are found to suffer from no infirmity. ii. In the present case also, on the basis of acts noticed above and the law

reiterated by this Tribunal in the aforesaid judgment dated 20.12.2019, Vodafone is

found deficient in security measures and hence Hable under Section 43A of the IT
Act. The appeals are found to be without merits and are dismissed accordingly. In
case the appellant(s) have not paid the decretal money as granted by the AO, it
should be paid within one month. Both the appellants shall further pay a sum of
Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) each by way of cost of the appeal to the

complainants within one month. The complainants shall be entitled to get the
 

5H
ed