PROSECUTION STORY

1.0 Sh. Harish Dargan (PW19) was proprietor of M/s Hira Jewellers and
their showroom was situated at HD-3, Pitam Pura, Delhi. Gian Singh (PW 20) was
running security agency in the name of Radiant Detective and Security Agency and
had provided security guards for security of said showroom. On the intervening
night of 03/06/12 and 04/06/2012, Lalit Kumar (PW10) and Krishan Kumar (PW22)
were on duty outside said showroom as security guards. Besides keeping a vigil
over the showroom, they were also keeping an eye over the vehicles of their owner.
One Bolero vehicle bearing registration no. DL-4C-NB-5547, registered in the name
of Rajni Dargan (PW18), was also parked outside said showroom that intervening FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 2 of 27 night. For sake of convenience, such Bolero would be referred as Owner's Bolero. 1.1 At about 3.45 a.m., one another Bolero-type vehicle (hereinafter referred
as accused's vehicle) came there and stopped in front of their showroom. 3-4
persons were sitting in that vehicle and two of them alighted down. One positioned
himself at the footpath (patri) and the other started unlocking owner's Bolero. When
said guards raised objection, the person, standing on footpath, asked them to keep
quiet or else they would be shot. However, Lalit and Krishan, as dutiful guards,
again challenged them which infuriated those robbers and the person standing on
footpath fired upon them. They both had providential escape as they showed
reflexes and ducked in time. In order to resist the robbery attempt, Krishan shot in
air. That other robber was able to start owner's Bolero. Lalit took aim of the tyre of
such Bolero and fired. Owner's Bolero hit one temporary kiosk of betelwala
(Panwari) and came to halt. Fact, however, remains that all the robbers, except one,
were able to flee away in the same vehicle, in which, they had come. Police gypsy
also reached there and when the owner's Bolero was checked, it was noticed that
one robber was lying dead on its driving seat. 1.2 Investigation was carried out. Owner's Bolero as well as the spot was
got inspected through FSL team. Two empty cartridges of 12 bore, broken pieces of
window panes, bloodstained concrete material, bloodstained handkerchief, L-shape
metal key used for robbing owner's Bolero, bloodstained seat covers etc. were
taken into possession. Lalit also handed over his gun, live cartridge and license (in
the name of Gian Singh) to the police. Similarly, the other guard i.e. Krishan Kumar
also handed over his gun along with live cartridge and license to the police. 1.3 Both the guards also revealed that they could identify all the robbers, if
shown to them. 1.4 Investigation revealed that the name of the dead robber was Arif. One
mobile phone number 9992141295 was recovered from his possession. Such
mobile phone was scrutinized. There were 8-9 mobile numbers saved therein and FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 3 of 27 the police attempted to reach those callers who were in conversation with deceased
Arif either at the time of incident or just before the incident. 1.5 Postmortem of Arif was got conducted. His father Harun also reached
the police station and received the dead body after postmortem and after
identification of the same. Fact, however, remains that no bullet could be retrieved
from the dead body. 1.6 During further investigation, guard Shri Krishan got recorded his
supplementary statement on 27/06/2012 and revealed that since he was under (A2) Mohd. Aslam was also arrested same day. On 06/07/2012, accused
Shahnawaz (A3) was arrested. They all were produced before the Court in muffled
faces and were directed to participate in judicial TIP. However, said three accused
i.e. A1 Sunil Kumar, A2 Mohd. Aslam and A3 Shahnawaz refused to participate in
TIP. 1.8 Police, initially, could not apprehend the other robbers who were
absconding. It was learnt that the deceased robber i.e. Arif was a convict who had
already been sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment on 19/07/2007 by a
Fast Track Court of Hoshangabad, M.P. in case FIR No. 109/06, PS Kesla, u/s
395/397 IPC though he was on bail. It is in these circumstances that in the
beginning, the charge-sheet against A1 Sunil Kumar, A2 Mohd. Aslam and A3
Shahnawaz was submitted before the concerned Magisterial Court. 1.9 Accused Vahid (A4) was arrested on 12/12/2012 and during judicial TIP
conducted on 15/12/2012, both the said security guards identified Vahid (A4)
correctly. 1.10 Accused Mustaq (A7) was arrested on 11/12/2012 and he was identified
in judicial TIP by security guard Krishan Kumar, though the other guard Lalit Kumar
could not identify him in judicial TIP. 1.11 Accused Shakkim (A5) was arrested on 07/01/2013 and accused
Farooq (A6) was arrested on 30/01/2013 and they both were duly identified in
judicial TIP. COGNIZANCE AND CHARGES

2.0 Initially, since only three accused had been charge-sheeted, said three
accused persons i.e. A1 Sunil Kumar, A2 Mohd. Aslam and A3 Shahnawaz were
directed to be charged u/s 120B IPC, u/s 395 and u/s 307 read with Section 120B IPC vide order dated 17/10/2012. They all pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 2.1 After the supplementary charge-sheet was received, the other four
accused persons i.e. A4 Vahid, A5 Shakkim, A6 Farooq and A7 Mustaq were also
directed to be charged for said offences. 2.2 A4 Vahid, A5 Shakkim and A6 Farooq were also charged u/s 174A IPC
and A4 Vahid u/s 397 IPC as well. They all pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

3.0 Prosecution was directed to adduce evidence. 3.1 It examined following witnesses:- affidavits of PW1 to PW6 and PW23 to PW27 being formal witnesses. STANCE OF ACCUSED AND RIVAL CONTENTIONS

4.0 During trial, A4 Vahid and A5 Shahnawaz absconded and they were
accordingly declared proclaimed offenders. 4.1 Statements of remaining five accused persons were recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. and they pleaded innocence and claimed that they had been falsely
implicated. Statements of A1, A2, A3, A6 and A7 were recorded. 4.2 Thereafter, even A2 Mohd. Aslam absconded. 4.3 Except for A1 Sunil Kumar, no other accused desired to lead any
evidence in defence. Accused Sunil Kumar examined his wife Seema in his
defence. 4.4 Learned Addl. P.P. has asserted that prosecution has been able to prove
its case to the hilt. He has contended that it becomes very much obvious and
evident that all such robbers had come with full preparation. They were armed with
deadly weapons and did not even blink before using the same. It was only good
fortune of those two security guards that they did not get hurt and when they
retaliated in self-defence and also took aim of tyre of Bolero car which was being
robbed away, robbery attempt was foiled though it resulted in unfortunate death of
one such robber. He has argued that three accused persons had initially refused to
participate in TIP and remaining four accused persons, when arrested, refused to
participate in TIP which indicates their complicity. It has been contended that there is
no reason whatsoever to disbelieve the testimony of eyewitnesses/security guards FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 8 of 27 who have also identified them during the trial. He also strongly relied upon
electronic evidence which also, according to him, connects all the robbers with one
another as well as with the incident in question. 4.5 All such contentions have been refuted. 4.6 Sh. Ram Kumar, learned counsel has defended A-1 Sunil. He has
argued that A-1 Sunil was fully justified in refusing to participate in TIP as he had
been shown to the witnesses during the police custody remand and, therefore, no
mileage can be drawn by prosecution from such TIP which has no significance in
the eyes of law. It has also been claimed that as per FIR, complainant had claimed
that there were three-four persons in the accused's vehicle but at the instance of
police, these guards vastly improved their previous versions and claimed that
robbery was committed by seven-eight persons. It has also been claimed that
neither of the two guards revealed any description regarding height, colour, physical
appearance etc. of those robbers. It has also been claimed that even CDR does not
take the case of prosecution anywhere. 4.7 Sh. Ravinder Kumar, learned defence counsel has contended that there
is no recovery of any mobile from the possession of A-3 Shahnawaz and, therefore,
there is nothing to establish his presence at the spot or any interconnection between
him and others. It has also been argued that no weapon of offence has either been
recovered from his possession. There is no mechanical inspection report of owner's
Bolero and there is nothing on record which may indicate that its tyre got burst due
to gunshot. It has been claimed that prosecution story is false as there was no kiosk
at the spot against which the owner's Bolero had allegedly collided. 4.8 Sh. Asri addressed arguments on behalf of A-6 & A-7. He has, while
relying on the aforesaid defence contentions, also supplemented that prosecution
case does not stand proved at all. He has claimed that there are number of
omissions and contradictions which show and expose the falsity in the case of
prosecution. According to him, it was next to impossible for such guards to identify FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 9 of 27 the faces of the alleged robbers when, most of them had not even disembarked and
when there was no light at the spot. He has also contended that both guards have
come up with huge improvements and if at all incident in question had been
committed by eight-nine persons, there was no one to have stopped them from
revealing such crucial aspect at the first available opportunity. He has also argued
that accused were shown to the witnesses and, therefore, judicial TIP does not carry
any value. EVALUATION OF EVIDENCE

5.0 I have given my thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions and
carefully perused the entire material available on record. 5.1 There are two key aspects of the case. 5.2 First relates to the ocular version of the security guards and second is
related to complicity arising out of scrutiny of CDR. 5.3 I also cannot be unmindful of the fact that in the incident in question, one
alleged robber got killed albeit unintentionally and unfortunately. 5.4 It is also important to note that such deceased robber happens to be the
real brother of A-6 Farooq. 5.5 Let me now evaluate the evidence. OCULAR EVIDENCE

6.0 M/s Hira Jewellers was being watched over by PW10 Lalit Kumar and
PW22 Krishan Kumar. They both are the most crucial witnesses. There does not
seem to be any real qualm about they being on duty said night. As per prosecution
case, to foil robbery attempt and also in self-defence, they had fired through
licensed arms. 6.1 Gian Singh was running security agency and he was the one who had
provided said two guards. This becomes clear from the testimony of PW11 Gian
Singh. He himself had been working as security guard with M/s Hira Jewellers for
last five years and on the date of incident, he worked as guard from 8.00 AM to 8.00
PM. He was having rifle also which he had kept in the locker near to the duty place
and in front of showroom after finishing his duty. Such rifle was eventually used by
security guard Lalit Kumar on the date of incident when robbers were running with
the owner's Bolero. 6.2 He has proved Attendance Register which was bearing the names of
both the said guards. Such Register (Ex. P-4) was seized by the police vide memo
Ex. PW20/A. As per such Register, they both were on duty at said showroom on the
relevant night. Gian Singh has also made mention about his rifle which was seized
by the police vide seizure memo Ex. PW20/B. Reference be also made to the
testimony of PW14 Sh. Hoti Lal who was directed to produce record regarding such
Arm Licence and as per official record Ex PW14/A, Arm Licence No.
12997/Jaithara/02/04/99 had been issued to Gian Singh. As far as Krishan Kumar
is concerned, he also possessed Arms Licence and such licence has been duly
proved by PW13 Suresh Kumar who produced record pertaining to such licence. As
per deposition of PW13 Suresh Kumar, Clerk, SDM Office, Jind, Haryana, such Arm
Licence had been issued to Krishan Kumar. Relevant record has been proved as
Ex. PW13/A.

6.3 Thus, it becomes evident that Gian Singh had been issued Arm Licence
and similarly guard Krishan Kumar was issued Arm Licence. Rifle of Gian Singh
was, however, used by PW10 Lalit Kumar in self-defence and in order to thwart the
attempt of robbery. Krishan Kumar too used such arm on the fateful night. It will be
also important to mention here that besides the aforesaid two security guards,
evidence of PW32 Jai Prakash is also important as he was also a security guard in
the adjacent building of M/s Vijay Sales. 6.4 Let me now see and evaluate the evidence of these security guards. 6.5 PW10 Lalit Kumar has deposed that he was working as security guard
at the showroom of M/s Hira Jewellers and Krishan Kumar was also working as
security guard with him. On the intervening night of 03.06.2012 & 04.06.2012, they
both were on duty from 8.00 PM (03.06.2012) to 8.00 AM (04.06.2012) and were
guarding showroom as well as vehicles parked outside the showroom. At about
3.45 AM-4.00 PM, they saw a Bolero vehicle coming from Madhuban Chowk side. It
stopped near owner's Bolero. Owner's one more vehicle i.e. Innova was also parked
behind. Seven-eight persons were inside the accused's vehicle i.e. Bolero in which
they had come. He could not notice number of such vehicle of robbers but
registration number of owner's Bolero had the last digits as 47. He further deposed
that two persons came out of the accused's vehicle. One of them stood on the
footpath and other said down near owner's Bolero and was not visible to him. He
also claimed that two more persons were sitting in accused's vehicle and its back
window was open. When they heard the noise, then he and Krishan Kumar
challenged claiming as to what they were doing. Person, who was standing on the
footpath, threatened to keep quiet or else they would be shot. PW10 Lalit Kumar
could sense that they were criminals. They both then armed themselves. Krishan
Kumar picked up his gun and Lalit Kumar picked up the gun of Gian Singh from
locker. They moved little ahead and then a shot was fired from the side of
miscreants (robbers) and bullet crossed above their heads as they sat a little. They
could also see that their Bolero (owner's Bolero) had been switched on which
started moving slowly. One person, who was already standing on the footpath, ran
towards the accused's vehicle. Four-five other persons also sat hurriedly in such
vehicle of robbers. One other person was driving their Bolero (owner's Bolero).
Then Krishan Kumar fired a round from his gun but their Bolero (owner's Bolero) did
not stop and he then suggested Krishan Kumar to fire towards tyre and then Lalit
Kumar fired towards its tyre. He himself also fired towards tyre and, thereafter,
owner's Bolero stuck with small shop of Paanwala and they observed a lot of smoke
and dust in the air and there was loud noise as one of the tyres had burst. He then
made call to the police by dialing 100. Immediately, a PCR van came at the spot
and then it was noticed that one such robber was lying dead in owner's Bolero.
PW10 Lalit Kumar deposed that the other robbers succeeded in running away in FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 12 of 27 same vehicle i.e. accused's vehicle. 6.6 During trial, he identified all the accused persons correctly by pointing
out towards them though fact remains that he did not know them by names. As per
his deposition, following was the position of all such robbers:- vehicle of white color coming from Madhuban Chowk side which stopped near their
Bolero vehicle. Seven-eight persons were inside the accused's vehicle. He claimed
that he could not notice the registration number of accused's vehicle but gave
registration number of owner's Bolero vehicle as 5547. He deposed that from the
accused's vehicle, two persons alighted down and one of them stood on the
footpath and another sat down near owner's Bolero and was not visible to him. Two
persons were sitting in accused's vehicle and back window was in open condition.
On hearing the noise from the side of owner's Bolero, he challenged them as to
what they were doing. On this, person standing on the footpath threatened to keep
quiet or else he would shoot them. He also claimed that he understood that they FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 13 of 27 were criminals and he picked up his gun and Lalit Kumar also picked gun of Gian
Singh from locker and when they moved a little ahead, a shot was fired from
miscreant. According to his deposition also, since they sat down, fire crossed above
their head. He also claimed that in the meanwhile, engine of their Bolero (owner's
Bolero) switched on and it started moving slowly and four-five persons also hurriedly
sat in accused's vehicle. He deposed that he fired a round from his gun but owner's
Bolero was not stopped by those assailants and then his associate suggested him
to fire towards its tyre. He claimed that Lalit had also fired a shot towards tyre and
then owner's Bolero stuck with small shop of Paanwala and they observed lot of
smoke and dust in the air. PCR came at the spot and a person was found in dead
condition inside their Bolero (owner's Bolero) and other persons were able to run
away from there. He also claimed that he could identify all the robbers. He correctly
identified all such robbers and gave their position also in full synchronization with
the testimony of PW10 Lalit Kumar. He claimed that accused Vahid (A-4) was the
first who had threatened them while holding revolver in his hand and also fired and
was also saying "goli mardonga chup chap bethe rah". According, him A-5, A-6 & A-
7 had also taken position at the spot and they had also run away in their vehicle
while threatening them. 6.9 I have seen the cross-examination of both these material witnesses and
indeed, I have not been able to come across any fact which may suggest anything
unusual, uncharacteristic or anomalous which may indicate that they had not
witnessed the incident of robbery. Though, it certainly needs to be assessed
whether these guards were in position to see the faces of robbers or not. 6.10 In his first statement which he made before the police, PW10 Lalit
Kumar had claimed that three-four persons were sitting in the accused's vehicle
which stopped in front of their showroom and two persons had alighted down from
such vehicle. His such first statement (Ex. PW10/A) reflects number of robbers to be
not more than three-four. In his supplementary statement whereas, he came up with
revelation that that when he had given first statement to the police, he was
perplexed, he could not tell the number properly and in his such subsequent FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 14 of 27 statement dated 27.06.2012, he divulged that there were four-five more persons
and they all had also threatened them and fled in accused's vehicle towards Ashiana
Chowk and that he could identify all such eight-nine persons. There is similar type
of supplementary statement of Lalit Kumar which was recorded on 07.07.2012 by
the police and in such statement, Lalit Kumar also claimed that he could not tell the
facts properly earlier and corroborated his colleague by asserting that there were
eight-nine robbers whom he could identify if shown to him. 6.11 This aspect, about number of robbers, seems little complicated and
knotty. 6.12 I can imagine the state of minds of guards. They must be feeling
shocked and terrified. Moreover, a robber too had been killed and they must have
been really under trauma and must be holding themselves responsible for such loss
of life. 6.13 Nonetheless, it is not explicable that while giving all the other tiny
details, they would have missed out on such crucial aspect about exact number of
robbers. Things could have been different, had they not given any statement at all.
However, their coming up with such fact at a later stage is bound to raise eye-brows.
Moreover, the subsequent revelation is after a big hiatus and not immediate one. 6.14 The incident had taken place in a jiffy and it would not have given any
substantial time to guards to note any distinctive feature about the appearances of
those robbers. It does not look probable that they could have seen those robbers
who remained seated in their own vehicle and did not even alight down. 6.15 They both were able to see only one person properly who had
threatened them and who had even fired. Such robber happens to be A-4. In their
first statements, these guards never claimed that 3-4 more robbers had alighted
down and that they also boarded accused's vehicle while fleeing. Moreover, if I, for a
moment, assume said fact to be true, it does not look realistic for anyone to identify FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 15 of 27 those persons from back when they were merely boarding the vehicle. One other
robber too had alighted down but as already noted above, both the guards
themselves have claimed that they were not able to see that man properly as he
was not visible. He also ran and boarded that vehicle. Such robber is reported to be
A-3. 6.16 Of course, prosecution is relying heavily on TIP. However, the purpose
of TIP is only to assure that investigating agency is proceeding in right direction.
Such TIP, in itself, is not substantive evidence. It is core duty of prosecution to prove
by producing compelling evidence as to how many robbers were actually involved
and whether the witnesses had any opportunity to see them and if yes, any special
feature of their personality or appearance which may prove handy to reach them or
nail them down. Here, these two guards have not been able to give convincing
answers. Merely because, there was refusal to participate in TIP would not, in itself,
make any one accused. 6.17 Delayed introduction of crucial facts, which ought to have been revealed
at the first available opportunity, has potential to indicate some fabrication,
manipulation and consultation. There is no explanation, much less plausible which
may persuade the court that they could not have given the number of robbers or
dacoits properly particularly when all other minor details had been given by them to
the police, then and there. 6.18 As noted already, as per the earlier statements made by both the
aforesaid two security guards, robbers were 3-4 in number and only two of them
had alighted down. One was opening the Bolero vehicle owned by M/s Hira
Jewellers. The person, who had opened the Bolero of M/s Hira Jewellers, was
eventually found dead on its driving seat. His name was later on ascertained as
Arif. The other was standing on footpath with a pistol. Such other robber, who is
alleged to be A4 Vahid, had threatened those guards as well as fired. Interestingly,
though such robber Vahid was identified during trial, fact remains that as per the
deposition of said two guards, one such robber too was not visible to them. Thus FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 16 of 27 one of the two persons, who had alighted down, was, later on, found dead and the
other was not fully visible to guards. In such a situation, it is indeed mystifying and
bewildering as to how they have been able to identify all the robbers. 6.19 Indubitably, police has power to record supplementary statement. Such
supplementary statement can always be made during the investigation but then it
should be in complete harmony with the previous statement. There should be
synchronization between the two statements. Here, in the first statement, both the
guards had claimed that 3-4 robbers had come in one Bolero type vehicle. Security
guard Krishan Kumar made supplementary statement on 27/06/2012 i.e. after more
than 23 days of the incident and in such statement, he came-up with improvement
and claimed that instead of 3-4 robbers, there were more robbers and when they all
were fleeing away, 4-5 other robbers, while threatening, boarded that vehicle of
robbers and sped away towards Ashiana Chowk. He claimed that he could identify
them as well. No specific description of those 4-5 robbers has either been given
and Krishan Kumar simply claimed that he could identify them. To the similar extent
is the supplementary statement of security guard Lalit who made virtually similar
statement on 07/07/02012. He has also not made clear as to why he did not reveal
such fact at the earliest opportunity. I am not ready to believe that since they both
were under shock, they could not reveal said aspect to the police in their previous
statements. Thus, I have my strong reservation and reluctance to believe about the
authenticity and creditability of these supplementary statements. 6.20 As regards holding of TIP, the prosecution has, again, not come-up with
requisite clarity. 6.21 It is quite evident that A1 and A2 were arrested on 04/07/2012 and A3
was arrested on 06/07/2012. They all had refused to participate in TIP. But it needs
to be assessed whether they were justified in refusing to join TIP or not. 6.22 Record would indicate that application seeking TIP of A1, A2 and A3 was
moved on 07/07/2012 and such TIP was fixed for 12/07/2012. Testimony of PW39 FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 17 of 27 Inspector Bijender Chiller is important on this aspect. In his cross-examination, he
did admit that PC remand was taken before holding of such TIP. He revealed that
application moved by him for holding of TIP was withdrawn by him because of the
non-availability of learned Presiding Officer. However, this is factually incorrect as
TIP was re-scheduled not because of the non-availability of judicial officer but
because of the non-availability of the witness. Curiously enough, TIP of A-1 and A-3
was got postponed for non-availability of witnesses as per request dated 12.07.2012
but as regards A-2 Aslam, his TIP proceedings were carried out on 13.07.2012 and
concerned police official told TIP judge that witnesses had come to jail for TIP
purpose. Thus investigating agency is trying to blow hot and cold. Be that as it may,
when the TIP was already fixed, the police should not have ventured into seeking
police custody remand. 6.23 Moreover, if at all, the period during which the police custody remand
could have been taken, was expiring, the investigating officer should have said so
instead of deposing falsely. I need not remind myself that PC can be taken during
first 15 days of the arrest and since A1 and A2 had been arrested on 04/07/2012,
the police could have easily taken their PC remand even subsequent to 13/07/2012.
There was no justification in seeking their PC on 12/07/2012 when the TIP had
already been fixed on 13/07/2012. Such action on the part of investigating agency
smacks of malafide. 6.24 As per the specific stand taken by these three accused, they had
refused to participate in TIP as their photographs were taken at the PS and they
were shown to the witnesses. In the afore-referred background coupled with the
fact that both the eye-witnesses did not give any specific description regarding the
physical appearance of the alleged robbers or dacoits, the refusal on the part of
accused does contain some substance. 6.25 Showroom of M/s. Vijay Sales was also located very near to the
showroom of M/s. Hira Jewellers. It had a separate guard. However, prosecution
has not been able to dig out any real advantage from his testimony. PW32 Sh. Jai FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 18 of 27 Prakash has deposed that he was performing his duty as security guard at M/s.
Vijay Sales on the intervening night of 03/06/2012 and 04/06/2012 and at about 3.45
a.m., one Bolero type vehicle came there and stopped at Madhuban Chowk, Hira
Jewellers. Two persons got down from that vehicle. One of them tried to take away
the vehicle of M/s. Hira Jewellers. The guards, who were performing duties at Hira
Jewellers, tried to stop them, on which, one such robber had even fired towards the
guards. According to his further deposition, in response, the guards had also fired
towards that vehicle but those persons ran away in their vehicle. He, later on, learnt
that one such robber was killed in the vehicle of M/s. Hira Jewellers. Police also
came at the spot in his presence. His statement was recorded by the police on
30/08/2012 and prosecution has also not elucidated as to why statement of such
security guard was recorded so late. He, also, claimed that he was 70 years old and
his eyesight was weak and, therefore, he could not see those persons properly and
was in no position to identify them. 6.26 This is, in fact, puzzling as to why the onerous task of security was
handed out to an aged man in his seventies who was having poor eyesight as well.
Be that as it may, even as per his deposition, only two robbers had alighted down.
PW32 Jai Prakash has nowhere claimed that 4-5 robbers had alighted down. DEATH OF ONE ROBBER

7.0 It is not in dispute at all that one robber was found dead. 7.1 The testimony of both the security guards goes on to indicate that they
both used rifles for twin-purpose. Firstly, it was in retaliation and palpably in self-
defence. Secondly, these guards were posted for specific purpose. They were
guarding the showroom as well as the vehicles owned by proprietor of such
showroom and when they saw those robbers attempting to take away owner's
Bolero, they shot to foil such attempt. They took aim towards the tyre. 7.2 It is quite manifest that the bullet fired by guard Lalit Kumar instead of FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 19 of 27 hitting the tyre, hit that robber who was on the driving seat of owner's Bolero. PW10
Lalit was not having his own armed license with him. He rather picked-up the gun of
Gian Singh from the locker and fired with the same. It is quite obvious that though
his intention was genuine and bona fide, yet he seems to have misfired which
resulted in untoward loss of one life. 7.3 Nonetheless, as per Section 100 and 103 of Indian Penal Code, the
right of private defence of body and property may even extend to causing death in
certain eventualities. These include where the assault is of such nature as may
reasonably give the apprehension that the death would otherwise be a
consequence of such assault. Similarly, with respect to right of private defence of
property, same is also extendable to causing death when the wrong-doer is
committing or attempting to commit, interalia, robbery. Thus, the guards were
justifiable in retaliating in self-defence. 7.4 Interestingly, the relatives of Mohd. Arif contacted the police on
06/06/2012 and none of them was disturbed or perturbed with respect to the death
of Arif. They merely identified the dead body and took the same for last rites after
postmortem. Reference in this regard be made to the statements of PW15 Razak,
PW16 Harun, PW17 Zuber and PW34 Mohd. Sharif. There is no complaint
whatsoever from their side which may suggest any foul play or which may show that
Arif was not killed in the manner as projected by the investigating agency. 7.5 Undoubtedly, the bullet which eventually killed Arif could not be
recovered either from his body or from crime scene but it is evident that Arif had
died due to gunshot injury. As per postmortem report Ex. PW21/A, the projectile
entered through right temporal part of head, fractured the skull, fractured both the
orbits, while travelling through the bone, exited through the left temporo frontal
region of the head and death was due to cranio cerebral damage consequent to
blunt force injury to the head caused by a projectile discharged through some
firearm. The nature and direction of such injury seems to be in synchronization with
the version of eye-witnesses. CALL DETAIL RECORD (CDR)

8.0 As per prosecution, following mobile numbers are important:- Thus, for initial six days, such mobile phone remained in the possession of IO. This
was not the right approach. The electronic device has its own sanctity and is prone
to tempering and, therefore, was required to be handled with utmost care and
transparency. The approach should have been overcautious and not a casual one.
If required, the police could have always obtained a clone copy of device through
forensic expert and could have worked on such clone copy. For reasons best known
to police, such mobile was sent to FSL as late as on 11/09/2012 and even as per
report (Ex. PW38/A) of FSL Expert, mobile phone could not be analyzed for want of
requisite facility in laboratory. Moreover, the important aspect was the call detail
records not the device as such and police could have easily obtained such CDR
through the concerned service provider. 8.3 Only PW22 Krishan Kumar had made reference to such mobile and it
was exhibited in his evidence as Ex P7. IOs did not exhibit the same in their
evidence. Though, I.O. Inspector Chiller had analyzed the CDRs and came to some
conclusion which were not elaborated by him in desired manner. Moreover, as per
FSL expert, device could not be examined though SIM card was analyzed.
However, the aspect, as to who was actually using mobile, needs to be established
by admissible evidence and not by wild inferences. 8.4 Prosecution should have brought on record comprehensible evidence in
order to show that such mobile phone was used by deceased robber. There was
one easiest and simplest way to establish such fact. All the close relatives of
deceased robber had visited the PS when they had identified the dead body of Arif.
Father of deceased had also visited the PS. Their statements to that effect could
have been recorded by the police so that it became loud and clear that Arif was
using such mobile. No effort in that direction was ever made. They did not reveal
about the mobile number of Arif during trial either. Reference be again made to the
testimony of PW15 Razak, PW16 Harun and PW17 Zuber. Thus, unfortunately,
there is no material on record which may indicate that such mobile number was of
Arif. Undoubtedly, Inspector Bijender Singh Chiller has deposed that such mobile
phone was recovered from the personal search of deceased robber, but that, by
itself, does not seem to be sufficient as even otherwise, such device was deposited
in the malkhana six days later. 8.5 To make things worse, the subscriber of such mobile was some other
person. 8.6 As per testimony of PW7 Sh. Pawan Singh, Nodal Officer of Idea
Cellular Ltd., such number was in the name of one Mustaq son of Mukhtiyar,
resident of Village-Roop Dhaka, Teh-Hakim, District-Mewat and the subscriber had
given copy of his driving license as proof of identity. Customer application form
along with copy of such ID proof have though been proved by nodal officer, yet fact
remains that investigating agency never reached the subscriber of such phone.
According to investigating agency, such number was obtained by using forged
documents but prosecution has not been able to establish such fact in the desired
manner. I would also like to supplement right here that though there is one accused
with the same name Mustaq but there is no connection of any nature whatsoever
between said subscriber and A7 Mustaq. 8.7 Investigating agency had allegedly reached the other accused on the
basis of CDR of said mobile number. Such CDR has been proved as Ex. PW7/A. FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 23 of 27 Such CDR is for period from 01/06/2012 to 05/06/2012 and is running in two pages
only. The alleged incident had taken place at about 3.45 a.m. or 4.00 a.m. and the
last recorded call of such mobile phone is of 12.01 a.m. (night) of 04/06/2012.
Before that, there is another call on 03/06/2012 at 10.48 p.m. and of 09.02 p.m.
respectively. To show interconnection amongst accused, there has to be some
proximity of calls with the time of robbery. Merely because on previous day(s), there
were any calls would not be sufficient. Additionally, since prosecution was heavily
relying on said call detail record, it was also duty bound to show the location of the
mobile for the relevant period. Though Cell IDs are found mentioned in CDR but
such fact has not been developed or elucidated or explained by the prosecution in
any manner whatsoever. Since chart related to tower location of such cell-IDs of
contemporaneous period was not placed, nobody knows the significance of Cell IDs
reflected in such CDR. It cannot be deciphered whether the mobile in question was
also in that area at the relevant time. 8.8 As per said CDR, on night intervening 03/06/2012 and 04/06/2012, there
were two calls between said number of deceased robber and mobile number
9718527850 (which allegedly belonged to A4 Vahid and number stored as VV) and
also to one number 9728874981 (which allegedly belonged to A6 Farooq). There is
no other significant call in the proximity which may connect any other accused.
Moreover, as per forensic report, no information could be retrieved regarding
incoming calls'. It seems that SIM contained information about 8 mobile numbers
only. 8.9 A4 Vahid is already absconding and, therefore, at this stage, it will not
be appropriate to make any remark with respect to mobile allegedly used by A4
Vahid though fact remains that PW31 Anuj has not supported the case of
prosecution in this regard. As regards mobile number 9728874981 which allegedly
had been used by A6 Farooq, reference be made to the testimony of PW7 Pawan
Singh. As per his deposition, said mobile number 9728874981 was registered in the
name of same Mustaq son of Mukhtiyar. Again, there is no evidence that said
mobile used to be used by A6 Farooq. PW39 IO Inspector Bijender Singh Chiller FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 24 of 27 was grilled in this regard by defence. When counsel for accused Farooq wanted to
ascertain as to how such mobile was connected with accused Farooq, the answers
given by PW39 Inspector Bijender Chiller were found to be evasive. He did admit
that such mobile phone was not in the name of Farooq. He supplemented that such
mobile number had been obtained on the basis of fake documents in the name of
one Mustaq. However, there is nothing on record which may show that these
documents were forged and fabricated documents. There has to be some reason to
come to such conclusion. Nobody knows whether I.O. tried to verify the address or
try to find from concerned Transport Authority whether such driving license was
genuine or not? Without making any endeavour in this regard, document cannot be
labelled as fake. 8.10 I.O. admitted in his cross-examination that there was one missed call
from Farooq. This seems insufficient. Firstly, Farooq is not the actual subscriber.
Secondly, there is nothing on record which may show that such mobile number had
been obtained by using fake documents. Thirdly, a mere missed call would not
make Farooq a co-accused. There should have been something more than that.
Moreover, let me remind myself that deceased robber and accused Farooq were
real brothers and, therefore, any call between them cannot be termed as unusual. 8.11 I have also perused the testimony of PW29 Ajay Kumar whose younger
sister was married to accused Sunil. He did admit that one mobile number
9711002273 was obtained by him on his ID but also added that such SIM used to
be in the house and Seema (his younger sister) and other occupants of the house
used to use the same. This does not convincingly establish that Sunil and Sunil
alone was user of said number. As regards mobile of accused Vahid, PW29 Ajay
Kumar did not support the case of prosecution at all as he resiled from his previous
statement. Deposition of PW31 Anuj is also of not much avail to prosecution. He
simply claimed that he knew accused Aslam (proclaimed offender) and he also
knew accused Vahid (proclaimed offender) who was brother-in-law of accused
Aslam. He also knew accused Shakim (A5). Due to business transactions, he used
to talk to them. However, at the same time, he spoiled the prosecution case by FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 25 of 27 claiming that he did not remember their mobile numbers. In his cross-examination,
he claimed that he had not stated the mobile numbers of Shakim and Vahid to the
police. 8.12 Significantly, tower details of mobile of A2 Aslam are available. CDR has
been proved as Ex PW9/C. As per such details, A2 Aslam was rather in Ghaziabad
and Shahdara during the intervening night. Tower Details of other mobiles have not
been properly presented and projected by state. Thus, prosecution cannot dig out
anything substantial from said call detail records either. CONCLUSION

9.0 I have carefully perused the testimony of various other police officials.
Fact remains that other investigational aspects, though important, pale into
insignificance in view of my foregoing discussion. 9.1 If I give preference to Guards' first statements, which I must, they had
seen only two persons disembarking from accused's vehicle. One person had
taken position on the footpath and the other had opened the Bolero of M/s Hira
Jewellers. Such person who had opened the Bolero vehicle was able to start the
vehicle as well but in the bargain, got shot and died instantaneously. The other
person, who had threatened and who had fired towards the guards, has been
alleged to be Vahid who is presently absconding. 9.2 As regards accused Sunil Kumar (A1), accused Shahnawaz (A3),
Farooq (A6) and Mustaq (A7), I have not been able to find convincing and
trustworthy evidence which may clearly and conclusively hold that they were also
part of the robbery-team. The manner in which the incident had taken place at dead
hour of the night and the manner in which the incident was over in a flash could not
have given enough of time to those two guards to clearly identify them, more so,
when only Arif and Vahid had alighted down. It was virtually impossible for those
two guards to have seen clearly the remaining robbers who did not even alight down FIR No. 144/12 PS Maurya Enclave (State Vs. Sunil Kumar & Ors) Page 26 of 27 from their vehicle. More so, at that time, both these guards were busy in exchange
of fire while taking safe position and, therefore, they do not seem to be in any
definite position to identify them including those who kept sitting in accused's vehicle
all along. Thus identification, in itself, does not inspire much confidence. I also
cannot lose sight of the fact that guard Lalit had even failed to identify accused
Mushtaq in judicial TIP conducted on 14.12.2012. This also reassures my view that
guards were not in a position to identify such robbers with complete precision.
CDRs also do not take the prosecution anywhere near to the proof of their
complicity. Moreover, A3 Shahnawaz was not using any mobile at all. 9.3 As an upshot of my foregoing discussion, I hereby grant benefit of
doubt to A1 Sunil Kumar, A3 Shahnawaz, A6 Farooq and A7 Mustaq. They all
are acquitted of all the charges. They are, however, directed to furnish personal
bond and surety bond in a sum of Rs. 25,000/- each u/s 437A Cr.P.C. 9.4 Superdarinama(s) are cancelled. Case property be destroyed as per
Rules after the expiry of period of appeal or as per the outcome of appeal, as the
case may be. 9.5 File be consigned to Record Room thereafter. However, file may not
be destroyed and the matter be revived as and when the proclaimed offender
accused persons are re-arrested and produced before the Court.