DATED : 22nd DECEMBER, 2023

 P.C:- An interim application is fled in the pending suit,
seeking an interim order of injunction against the Defendants
and restraining them from publishing the alleged defamatory
material/articles, during the pendency of the suit. 2. During its pendency, the Defendant No.1 has clarifed
that he has not used the words "scam" or "ghotala" appearing
in the said articles, which were uploaded by Defendant No.2
and Defendant No.2 agreed to delete the articles from it's
website, YouTube channel and Xcorp Account within a period
of one week. Defendant No.2 has further also agreed that
there shall be no printing, publishing, sell or exhibition or
circulation of the articles on YouTube or any other platform, in
future. 3. During the course of hearing, the consent minutes of
order under the signatures of the learned counsel appearing
for the Applicants/Plaintiffs, Defendant No.1 and Defendant
No.2 respectively are presented before me and it is requested
that the interim application shall be disposed off in terms
thereof. 4. The consent minutes of order records as under :- or "ghotala" appearing in the said Articles, uploaded through
 Defendant No.2.The statement is accepted. Defendant No.1 further
 undertakes and assures this Court that he shall not use words
 "scam" or "ghotala" or words of similar nature, in the public domain
 including on all social media platforms, newspapers, videos,
 interviews, etc. in reference to the Plaintiffs. The same is accepted
 as an undertaking to the Court. However, this will not prevent the
 Defendant No. 1 from pointing out, including in the public domain,
 illegalities or irregularities, if any, in respect of the Agreement/s in
 building the hospital, except making defamatory and/or derogatory
 statements qua the Plaintiffs. It is also made clear that the Plaintiffs
 are not accepting, in any manner, the correctness of any present or
 future complaint or allegation made by Defendant No.1. b. Defendant No. 2 will delete the said Articles from its website,
 YouTube Channel as well as X Corp account within period of 1 (One)
 week from the date of executing these Consent Minutes of Order.
 Defendant No.2 will delete / take down the articles / video at
 Exhibits A - E of the Plaint viz. c. Defendant No. 2 by themselves, or through their servants
 and/or agents, shall not print, publish, sell and/or exhibit, circulate
 the said Articles or streamor share the video on YouTube and/or
 shall not print, publish, sell and/or exhibit, circulate the said
 Articles or streamor share the video on YouTube in the future
 and/or shall not do any other act, deed or thing that may amount to
 defamation of the Plaintiffs. This would be without prejudice to the
 rights conferred upon the Defendant No.2 by the Constitution of
 India and its right to protect the public interest by way of social
 awareness in the manner permissible under the law. 3. The present Order is passed without prejudice to the rights and
 contentions of all the parties. 4. The captioned Interim Application is disposed of in the above
 terms." 5. As far as Defendant No.4 Google LLC is concerned, a
categorical statement is made by the learned counsel, that if
Defendant No.2 fails to take down the article, which is
exhibited as Exh.B to the plaint with the URL,
https://youtu.be/a5ri0rH4BNk, it shall block the access to the
same. Similar statement comes from Defendant No.5 of take
down the access for Article (Exh.E) to the plaint, in case
Defendant No.2 fails to remove the same. 6. In the wake of the disposal of the interim application, let
Mr.Tamboly obtain instructions for disposal of the suit itself, as
with the undertakings given by Defendant Nos.1 and 2 being
accepted, the suit shall not survive. At his request, suit shall be listed on 22/01/2024, for this
limited purpose, under caption, 'For Compliance'. ( SMT. BHARATI DANGRE, J.)

M.M.Salgaonkar ::: Uploaded on - 22/12/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 23/12/2023 09:53:38 :::