1. The present Appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "A&C Act")

 has been preferred against the judgment dated 17.06.2022

 passed by the Ld. Single Judge, High Court of Orissa at Cuttack

 in Arbitration Petition No. 1 of 2021 arising out of the arbitral

 award dated 7.9.2020 (as corrected on 17.11.2020) passed by the

 Arbitral Tribunal consisting of Prof. Lawrence Boo BBM, Dr.

 Michael Pryles PBM, and Mr. Malcolm Homes QC (hereinafter

 referred to as "the Tribunal")

 I. FACTUAL MATRIX OF THE CASE: 2. GMR Kamalanga Energy Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "GKEL

 / Owner/ Appellant") and SEPCO Electric Power Construction

 Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "SEPCO / Civil

 Contractor / Respondent") came together in 2008 for the

 construction and subsequent operation of three 350 MW coal

 fired thermal power plants at Kamalanga village, Dhenkanal in

 Odisha. The Parties entered into four Agreements for the

 execution of the aforementioned Project, namely: Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 1 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 ii. Guarantee and Coordination Agreement dated

 28.8.2008 and further amended on 31.5.2010.

 iii. Onshore Supply Agreement dated 28.8.2008 and

 further amended on 26.5.2009, 31.5.2010, 15.2.2011.

 iv. Offshore Supply Agreement dated 28.8.2008 and

 further amended on 18.5.2009, 26.5.2009, 31.5.2010. 3. A fourth, 350MW, unit was added to the project by mutual

 consent of the parties on 31.5.2020 and the aforementioned

 agreements were, thereafter, suitably amended. It is pertinent

 to note, at this juncture, that work against the fourth unit was

 subsequently suspended due to issues faced in the execution of

 the project. 4. The present Respondent demobilized from the Project site

 without completing the project around January, 2015. Disputes

 had arisen between the parties in relation to the delays in

 construction and various technical issues relating to the

 construction and operation of the plant. Resultantly, on

 30.3.2015, the Respondent served a 'notice of dispute' against

 the Appellant and initiated arbitration proceedings by its

 Notice of Arbitration dated 8.6.2015. An Arbitral Tribunal was

 constituted to adjudicate upon the disputes between the parties

 comprising of Prof. Lawrence Boo BBM, Dr. Michael Pryles

 PBM, and Mr. Malcolm Homes QC. As per the agreement

 between the parties, the Governing Law was English Law and

 the arbitration was to be decided in accordance with the Indian Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 2 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 A&C Act. The "seat" of arbitration was India though the

 "venue" was determined to be in Singapore. The relevant

 portion of the Agreement between the parties is reproduced

 hereinbelow for the sake of convenience: 21.4.3 The arbitrators shall drew up, and submit
 to the Parties for signature, the terms of
 reference within fifteen (15) days of the
 appointment of the third arbitrator. The
 terms of reference shall include a list of
 issues to be determined. 21.4.4 Neither Party shall be required to give
 general disclosure of documents, but may be
 required to produce documents which are
 relevant to the Dispute. 21.4.5 The arbitral proceedings shall be conducted
 in the English language. 21.4.6 [NOT USED]
 21.4.7 The arbitral award shall be final and
 binding upon the Parties and enforceable by
 any court having jurisdiction for this
 purpose. The arbitral award may be
 enforced against the Parties to the
 arbitration proceeding or their assets
 wherever they may be found and a
 judgment upon the arbitral award may be
 entered in any court having jurisdiction.
 25.2 Choice of law Signature Not Verified 25.2.1 Governing law Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 4 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 This Agreement shall be governed by and
 construed in accordance with the laws of
 England. The United Nations Convention
 on Contracts for the International" Sale of
 Goods shall not apply to this Agreement." 5. The Arbitral Tribunal agreed to the terms and entered into

 reference on 17.10.2016. On 7.9.2020, it issued the Arbitral

 Award in relation to all matters except interest and costs. Then,

 on 17.11.2020, the Arbitral Tribunal issued a corrected award

 under Section 33 of the A&C Act, wherein it held that the

 present Appellant should pay approximately Rs.1100 crores to

 the Respondent. The Arbitral Tribunal issued the final award

 dated 24.6.2021 on the issues of interest and costs. The present

 arbitration is an International Commercial Arbitration

 governed by Part I of the A&C Act. 6. The present Appellant preferred a petition under Section 34 of

 the A&C Act against the aforementioned award as well as

 moved an application requesting a stay against the

 aforementioned award on multiple grounds before this Court.

 The same was registered as ARBP (ICA) No.1 of 2021. 7. On 1.9.2021, during the hearing of the Section 34 petition

 preferred by the present Appellant, the Single Judge heard the

 parties on the question of "admission" of the Section 34 petition and the stay application preferred under Section 36(2) of the A&C Act. Without any further hearing, the Learned Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 5 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Single Judge dismissed the petition vide judgment dated

 17.6.2022 under Section 34 of the A&C Act and held as follows: 8. Aggrieved, the present Appellant approached the Supreme

 Court in SLP(C) No. 12194 of 2022. The Supreme Court of India

 vide its order dated 25.7.2022 issued notice and stayed the

 operation of the Single Judge's judgment dated 17.6.2022.

 Subsequently, vide order dated 15.5.2023, the Supreme Court

 permitted the present Appellant to approach this Court by way

 of an appeal under Section 37 of the A&C Act. The relevant

 portion of order dated 15.5.2023 is reproduced hereinbelow: It is argued on behalf of the respondent that the
 financial condition of the petitioner and its
 holdingcompany are precarious. A pointed reference
 was made to the auditor's report of the petitioner as
 well as its holding company, which were brought on
 record. Learned counsel also relied upon the general
 approach of this Court in regard to entertaining
 applications for interim stay or other interim relief,
 during the pendency of objections under Section 34 or even appeal under Section 37 to interdict the
 operation of the award and oppose the request for
 continuation of the interim order. It is submitted
 that by rights, the petitioner is under a duty to
 deposit the entire awarded amount. Having considered the totality of circumstances, this
 Court is of the opinion that the interim order should
 enure and bind the parties till 30th June, 2023 to
 enable the Commercial Appellate Division to hear
 arguments on this aspect. Neither the interim order
 of this Court dated 25.07.2022 nor any contention
 urged on behalf of the parties for its continuation or
 vacation shall be considered conclusive and all
 rights and contentions, in this regard, are kept open.
 The special leave petition is disposed of in the above
 terms. Pending applications, if any, are disposed of." 9. Here, it is relevant to point out that this Court has been tasked

 by the Supreme Court to consider all contentions of the parties Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 7 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 with regards to the matter in hand in this appeal under Section

 37 against the order of the learned Single Judge. 10.Now, the broad factual matrix leading up to the instant Appeal

 have been laid down, this Court shall endeavour to summarise

 the contentions of the Parties and the broad grounds that have

 been urged seeking the exercise of this Court's narrow

 jurisdiction available under Section 37 of the A&C Act.

 II. APPELLANT'S SUBMISSIONS: 11.It is submitted by Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant

 that issuance of notice is a condition precedent for the

 Respondent to make any claim for changes in the contract price

 or for seeking extension of time. The Learned Tribunal

 erroneously held that the Appellant is estopped from seeking

 enforcement of contractual notice provisions relying primarily

 upon its e-mail dated 18.3.2012 without appreciating the

 context in which it was sent. Thus, it is argued that the finding

 of the Tribunal that compliance with the contractual notice was

 waived with effect from March, 2012 is contrary to law.

 Further, in holding so, the Tribunal has prevented the

 Appellant from raising the plea of lack of contractual notice by

 the Respondent in various claims, such as those pertaining to,

 inter alia, Grid Synchronisation (Issue No.6), Fuel oil (Issue

 No.7), Coal (Issue No.8), UCT-PGT (Issue No.10);

 consequentially, the Tribunal allowed the Respondent's claims

 for extension of time and prolongation costs for delay which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 8 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 were barred by the Respondent's admitted failure to issue

 notices. In that process, the Tribunal awarded prolongation

 cost of Rs.70-80 crores (approx.) which consequently led to

 reduction in the amount of liquidated damages recoverable by

 the Appellant from the Respondent by Rs.100 crore

 approximately. 12.While dealing with the issue, the Tribunal has treated the

 parties unequally by applying a different standard to each of

 the parties by disallowing the Appellant's counter-claim

 amounting to more than Rs.150 crores approximately at the

 threshold; on the basis that the Appellant had failed to serve

 notice even though such claim for default arose after March,

 2012. Thus, by rejecting the claim of the Appellant in its

 counter-claim and allowing the same in favour of the

 Respondent, the total impact was approximately Rs.300 crores

 on the Appellant. 13.It is further submitted that the Tribunal has made out a case in

 favour of the Respondent, which was neither pleaded nor

 argued. It was not the case of the Respondent that there were

 separate agreements, which constituted estoppel, i.e., (a) that

 there was an agreement of 2010, which constituted an estoppel

 going forward all the way till end of the project execution; and

 alternatively (b) that if there was no agreement of March, 2010,

 then there was an agreement of March, 2012 which constituted

 an estoppel not to give any further contractual notices. Further, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 9 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 the plea of the Respondent of waiver or estoppel arising out of

 events of March 2010 being rejected by the Tribunal (paragraph

 226 of the award) the very basis of the Respondent's claim that

 an estoppel or waiver would be operative taking into

 consideration the events of March, 2012 could not have been

 accepted by the Tribunal, ignoring the Respondent's own case.

 Therefore, the Tribunal has made out an entirely new case in

 favour of the Respondent based on the events of March, 2012 to

 which the Appellant did not have any opportunity to respond

 to or lead evidence controverting it. Further, even if it is

 presumed that the Respondent had pleaded the case of waiver

 or estoppel based upon the events of March, 2012, then the

 Appellant would have produced further contractual notices

 issued by the parties based on events of March, 2012 and

 subsequent thereto. 14.It is also contended that the Tribunal has modified the contract

 between the parties by holding that parties had mutually

 waived the requirement to issue contractual notices. The

 Arbitral Tribunal failed to appreciate that the claim of estoppel

 would fail as it was inconsistent with and derogatory to the

 express language of Section 25 .5.3 of the Amended CWEETC

 Agreement. It is trite law that an Arbitral Tribunal cannot act

 outside the four corners of the contract or against the express

 terms of the contract before it. The Tribunal has no jurisdiction

 to modify the terms of a contract as has been done in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 10 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 instant case. The Tribunal has failed to take into consideration

 that the E-mail dated 18th March, 2012 from Mr. Rao (the

 Appellant's representative) was a simple request to the

 Respondent to withdraw its letter of suspension and nothing

 more. But the Tribunal by an erroneous reading of the email

 came to a finding that Mr. Rao was asking the Respondent not

 to issue formal notices for any matter or claims in the future

 unconnected with suspension, carte blanche. Although in the

 meeting dated 13th March, 2012, the Respondent agreed to

 withdraw its letter of suspension by 14th March, 2012, but it

 was not done. In fact, the suspension was withdrawn only

 when the Appellant had established Letters of Credit (L/C) of

 1266000 dollars and 11450000 dollars. Thus, it is argued that

 withdrawal of the suspension letter by the Respondent was on

 the basis of a positive action i.e. pending payments being made

 by the Appellant and not on the basis of the E-mail of March,

 2012. Thus, the Tribunal has acted in excess of its jurisdiction

 by modifying/amending the notice clause in the Agreement

 and unilaterally re-writing the contract.

 III. RESPONDENT'S SUBMISSIONS: 15.Per contra, it is submitted by Learned Senior Counsel for the

 Respondent that the scope of interference by the courts in an

 arbitration proceeding under Section 37 is narrower compared

 to scope of interference under Section 34 of the A&C Act. To Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 11 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 substantiate his submissions, Learned Senior Counsel has

 relied upon the judgments rendered by the Supreme Court of

 India in the case of Gemini Bay Transcription Pvt. Ltd. v.

 Integrated Sales Service Ltd.1and Ssangyong Engineering &

 Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI.2 16.Additionally, the Respondent also seeks to rely on various

 judgments of this Court as well the High Court of Tripura and

 the High Court of Delhi, namely, Kali Karnakar v. State of

 Tripura and Ors.,3Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited v. Fujhitshu India Private Limited,4 HCIL-Adhikarya-ARSS (JV)

 v. RAHEE-GPT (JV),5New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Orissa

 State Warehousing Corporation,6 and United India Insurance

 Company Limited v. SuryoUdyog Limited7. It is submitted that

 while entertaining appeals under Section 37 of the A&C Act,

 the Court is not actually sitting as a Court of Appeal over the

 award of the Arbitral Tribunal, and therefore the Court ought

 not to re-assess or re-appreciate evidence. It is also stated that

 the Arbitral Tribunal is the final arbiter on facts as well as law,

 and even errors, factual or legal, which stop short of perversity,

 do not merit interference under Section 34 or under Section 37

 of the A & C Act. 1 (2022) 1 SCC 753 2 (2019) 15 SCC 131 3 2015 SCC OnLine Tri 923 4 2015 SCC Online Del 7437 5 2023 SCC OnLineOri 2406 6 Orissa HC ARBA No. 24 of 2019 7 Signature Not Verified Orissa HC ARBA Nos.39 and 41 of 2018 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 12 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 17.It is submitted that the impugned award is anunanimous one

 and has been rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal having three

 members of repute in the matter of arbitration. The petition is

 challenging the merit of the dispute and it is an attempt to

 persuade this Court to re-appreciate the evidence which is ex

 facie in the teeth of the scope of Section 34 of the Arbitration

 Act. The scope and ambit of Section 34 does not permit the

 Petitioner to seek factual, evidentiary or legal review of the

 findings of the award. 18.Amendment to Section 34 introduced in 2015 further restricts

 the scope of interference with the arbitral award on the ground

 of public policy under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Arbitration Act

 on three heads, such as (i) fraud or corruption; (ii)

 contravention of fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii)

 conflict with most basic notions of morality or justice

 (Explanation-1). An important caveat stressed upon is the

 clause added in Explanation-2 according to which 'no review

 on merits of the award is allowed'. Interference of the arbitral

 award on the ground of patent illegality is also not available in

 an international commercial arbitration in view of Section 34(2) of the Arbitration Act. Referring proviso to Section 34(2A) of the

 Arbitration Act, it is submitted that even a domestic award

 shall not be set aside merely on the ground of erroneous

 application of law or by re-appreciation of evidence. Thus, the

 merit of international commercial arbitral award is completely Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 13 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 beyond the scope of challenge under Section 34 of the

 Arbitration Act. That the Appellant endeavored to challenge

 the impugned award on the issue of bias, violation of natural

 justice and perversity. It is submitted that these terms, though

 on the face of it are attractive, are completely misplaced and are

 nothing but fanciful expressions to camouflage its attempt to

 seek a factual review of the award. In order to buttress the

 argument of 'bias', the Appellant made a desperate attempt to

 argue on the merit of the dispute, which is against the very

 scheme of the Arbitration Act . It is nothing but an attempt to

 circumvent the statutory prohibition to challenge an award on

 the ground of merit. 19.It was further submitted that the Tribunal in its finding of

 waiver and estoppel has limited the scope of applicability of

 waiver and estoppel to notices arising out of delays and costs,

 and not to all the notices required as per the terms of the

 Agreement. Learned Counsel for the Respondent further

 contended that the Tribunal has adhered to the principles of

 equity enshrined in the Indian Contract Act and correctly held

 that there was estoppel by conduct limited to notices arising

 out of delays and costs. It is submitted that the present

 Appellant has taken the benefit of the application of this

 estoppel by claiming costs for defects that were notified in the

 R173 Joint Protocol but raised an issue only when the

 Respondent was allowed certain claims on the self-same Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 14 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 standards. It was also brought to our notice that it is the

 Appellant itself who proposed adopting a "cooperative

 approach" with regards to issuance of notices. 20.It was also contended by the learned counsel for the

 Respondent that the Appellant contended that it was unable to

 present its case and therefore, the principle of natural justice

 has been violated. Inability to present its case refers to a

 situation where the evidence, documents or submission are

 accepted behind the back of the party and the party is deprived

 of an opportunity to comment on the same. This ground would

 cover facets of natural justice and fair hearing, but cannot be

 used to challenge an award on merits by nit-picking the facts.

 The breach of the principles of natural justice has to be made

 out distinctly. IV. ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION: 21.Having heard the parties, we have also perused the materials

 available on record, including the following documents filed by

 the Parties to aid the hearing of the present lis at hand: i. By the Appellant: - Convenience Compilation dated 19.7.2023 - Judgment Compilation dated 19.7.2023 - Note of Arguments on behalf of the Appellant -
 Part I dated 19.7.2023 - Compilation of Notices dated 20.7.2023 - Note of Arguments on behalf of the Appellant -
 Part II and III dated 25.7.2023 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 15 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 - Additional Judgment Compilation dated
 25.7.2023 - Written Submissions dated 7.8.2023

 ii. By the Respondent: THE A. WHETHER
 TRIBUNAL INTERPRETED THE
 CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS CORRECTLY IN
 ASSESSING THAT ISSUANCE OF CONTRACTUAL
 NOTICES IS A CONDITION PRECEDENT? IF SO, THEN Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 16 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 CAN THE CONDITION OF ISSUANCE OF NOTICE BE
 WAIVED AND WHETHER A PARTY CAN CLAIM
 ESTOPPEL CONSEQUENT THERETO? 23. Before adverting to our analysis against the submissions, we

 consider it apposite to refer to Section 28 of the A&C Act. The

 same is reproduced herein below for ready reference: [(3) While deciding and making an award, the
 arbitral tribunal shall, in all cases, take into account Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 17 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 the terms of the contract and trade usages applicable
 to the transaction.]" 24.The language used in Section 28 of the A&C Act uses the words

 "shall" and "in all cases" with reference to the Tribunal's

 bounden duty to "take into account the terms of the contract".

 Meaning thereby, that the Arbitral Tribunal while deciding the

 lis before it is bound to take into account the terms of the

 contract and the same shall bind it. 25.Now, adverting to the contentious clauses of the CWEETC

 Agreement relevant to this issue, the same are being

 reproduced herein below for the sake of convenience in their

 order as per their occurrence in the Agreement itself. The same

 are: (underlining is ours) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 20 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 26.Here, it is relevant to summon the latin maxim of

 interpretation: 'Ex praecedentibus et consequentibus optima fit

 interpretatio.' - the best interpretation is made from the context.

 Every contract is to be construed with reference to its object

 and the whole of its terms. The whole context must be

 considered to ascertain the intention of the parties. It is an

 accepted principle of construction that the sense and meaning

 of the parties in any particular part of instrument may be

 collected 'ex antecedentibusetconsequentibus', every part of it may

 be brought into action in order to collect from the whole one

 uniform and consistent sense, if that is possible. 27.The Supreme Court in Provash Chandra Dalui v. Biswanath

 Banerjee8 intricately dealt with the conundrums of contractual

 interpretation and in conclusion, Saikia, K.N. (J) opined that: 28.The above cited principle of interpretation has universal

 application transcending national jurisdictions. A reference 8 Signature Not Verified 1989 Supp (1) SCC 487 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 21 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 could be made to the pronouncement made by the Supreme

 Court of Appeal of South Africa in Iveco South Africa (Pty)

 Ltd v Centurion Bus Manufacturers (Pty) Ltd9 wherein it was

 pronounced that: 29.In light of the above mentioned ratios, we now move to issues

 more specific to the dispute at hand. i. WHETHER THE CONDITION OF ISSUANCE OF
 CONTRACTUAL NOTICES CAN BE WAIVED? 30.The Appellant submitted that the requirement to give notice

 was a mandatory condition precedent as per the express terms

 of the contract and that the said requirement was not satisfied,

 thereby the Respondent could not make any claims pertaining 9 Signature Not Verified (183/2019) [2020] ZASCA 58 (3 June 2020) Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 22 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 to (a) change in the contract price, (b) claiming additional costs,

 and/or (c) seeking extension of time. 31. In this regard, our attention was drawn to Article 4.2.5 and 7.3

 of the CWEETC Agreement dated 28.8.2008 which has been

 reproduced above. We are also invited to peruse passages from

 the Arbitral Award, especially Paragraphs 206-215. The

 Tribunal has laid down its findings with respect to this issue in

 Paragraphs 208, 211 and 215 reproduced as hereunder: 32.The abovementioned finding/ conclusion was arrived at by the

 Tribunal upon its own independent interpretation of the terms

 of the contract that the requirement of issuance of notice was in

 fact a mandatory condition precedent under the provisions of

 the contracts. The Tribunal further goes on to note in Para 216

 of the award the Claimant's alternate argument that: Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR 33.The Tribunal having held that a perusal of the terms of the

 contract makes it clear that issuance of notice is a condition

 precedent therefore warrants no interference, the same being

 sound contractually and juristically. Thus, in so far as the first

 leg of the issue of whether the condition of issuance of notice is

 a condition precedent is concerned; there is no cavil between

 the parties to the lis and needs no further discussion. 34.This brings us to the next leg of the parties' submissions,

 whether the issuance of notice being a condition precedent

 could have been waived by the parties. 35.In this regard, we find it pertinent to refer to Article 25.5 which

 is interestingly titled as "25.5 - No Waiver or Variation". A

 bare perusal of the Article reveals that the parties, in fact, had a

 firm and explicit no waiver agreement, ex facie. Moreover,

 Article 25.5.3 specifically lays down that if any variation,

 amendment, supplement, modification or waiver of the

 Agreement is to be held to be effective, the same shall not be

 effective unless in writing and signed by or on behalf of each

 Party. Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 24 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 36.The Respondent submitted that the parties met in March, 2010

 (Bhubaneswar Meeting) and the Appellant orally requested the

 Respondent to withdraw a notice dated 23.01.2010 and further

 to not to issue any more contractual notices. It was the

 Respondent's case that this Meeting in March, 2010 is that

 when the parties allegedly decided to adopt a co-operative

 approach and forgo the condition of issuance of notices.

 Subsequently, the Respondent submitted that it did not act on

 its notice of 23.1.2010 and the terms of this representation or

 decision were not recorded and neither referred to in any

 future correspondence nor established in evidence, as has also

 been recorded by the Tribunal in Paragraph 225 of the Arbitral

 Award. 37.The Tribunal having gone through the events that transpired in

 the Meeting of March, 2010, in Paragraph 226 of the Arbitral

 Award goes on to say that; 38.The Appellant has contended that the Tribunal has rendered

 contradictory findings at different instances. If the Tribunal

 chose to rebuff the Respondent's case wherein the Meeting of

 March, 2010 which demonstrated intention of the parties doing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 25 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 away with the condition for issuance of notice; then given the

 evidence on record, the Tribunal should not have taken into

 consideration of the meeting in Jinan on 13.3.2012 (Jinan

 Meeting) wherein the Appellant apparently asked the present

 Respondent to withdraw a notice sent to them on 7.3.2012

 pertaining to suspension of some works as demonstrative of

 the parties intention to do away with the condition of issuance

 of notices. In this regard our attention is drawn to Paragraphs

 228 to 233 of the Arbitral Award which are reproduced

 hereinbelow: 229. On 18 March 2012 Mr Rao emailed Mr Xu
 and said: "Warm greetings. ... You have confirmed
 in the meeting and subsequently in the late evening
 that SEPCO II would send a simple letter of
 withdrawal of suspension letter by J4" which is yet
 to be received. In case I do not receive the same
 immediately I may have to refer the letter to the Signature Not Verified departments concerned. [The Respondent] had many Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 26 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 occasions to issue such letters to SEPCO II several
 times but always had cooperated to ensure that your
 site team perform. "(underlining added) 230. This email was effectively saying that the
 parties have resolved this dispute and the Claimant
 has agreed to withdraw with the formal notice issued
 in this case. The Respondent had other opportunities
 to give the Claimant formal notices but the
 Respondent always co-operated with the Claimant to
 ensure performance of the work and have not issued
 formal notices. Mr Rao is effectively asking, why
 doesn't the Claimant also adopt the same co-
 operative approach of not issuing formal notices so
 that together the parties can resolve any differences
 that might arise. It is an invitation to the Claimant
 by the Respondent to do what the Respondent has
 been doing. The Claimant accepted the invitation.
 There were no formal contractual notices
 subsequently issued by the Claimant. This email
 having regard to the context in which it was sent
 and what was said at the previous meeting, amounts
 to a written representation by the Respondent to the
 Claimant that it has not, and does not intend to
 strictly rely upon the formal notice provisions and
 would prefer that the Claimant also adopt the same
 more cooperative approach and not issue formal
 notices with legal submissions in future. 231. The Claimant by email dated 29 March 2012'
 acceded to the Respondent's request and said: "On
 the payment problem, you introduced that $1266000
 and $11450000 for the L/C has been established, and
 you promised opened a L/C of $32000000 before
 March 25th. In view of our friendly cooperation. We
 give up to suspend supply and work according to
 issuing notification suspension of certain supply
 and work on March 7th ..." (underlining added). Signature Not Verified This email in response tacitly, if not expressly, Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 27 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 accepts the Respondent's invitation to adopt a co-
 operative approach rather than a strict one of issuing
 and relying on formal notices and serving written
 submissions. 232. Third, the co-operative approach was evident
 and reinforced when the Respondent granted the
 Claimant an extension of time at the November 2012
 Jinan Meeting. The Respondent did not raise or
 suggest that the absence of contractual notices was a
 barrier to any extension of time for the Milestones
 for Units 1, 2 and 3. 233. Fourth, there were numerous meetings and
 correspondence with the Claimant about delay and
 the Claimant's claims for additional money.
 Consistent with the Respondent's request, the
 Respondent did not generally raise the contractual
 notice provisions with the Claimant. Mr Rao gave
 evidence that confirmed that during his time as
 managing director (from commencement to the
 Jinan meeting) it was the "mutual wish" of the
 parties "that difficulties that arose should be
 resolved informally by discussion and agreement."
 The Claimant acted to its detriment by not putting
 in formal notices as required by the contracts."
 (Underlining is ours) 39.We note that the Appellant has strongly relied on Article 25.5 of the CWEETC Agreement and stated that the terms of the

 contract do not envisage at any occasion for waiver given the

 specific and unambiguous "No Waiver" clause. Moreover, it

 was submitted that the said "No Waiver" clause could only

 have been varied/amended/modified solely in accordance with

 Article 25.5.3 of the CWEETC Agreement which postulates the

 twin condition of the same being in writing and being signed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 28 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 by both parties. These twin conditions having not been met,

 there is no question of variation of the "No Waiver" clause by

 conduct or orally. 40.Our attention was further drawn to the English law principle as

 laid down by the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom in the

 case of Rock Advertising Ltd. v. MWB Business Exchange

 Centres Ltd.10where Lord Sumption, in the majority opinion,

 had established that the 'No Oral Modification Clause' in a

 contract shall be interpreted strictly and parties to the contract

 cannot waive the 'No Oral Modification Clause' impliedly by

 making an oral modification to the terms of the contract. Any

 amendment arising out of the contract, as well as where parties

 seek to remove the 'No Oral Modification Clause' from the

 contract, shall strictly be in writing. In effect, the majority held

 that the parties can exercise their party autonomy to the extent

 they have allowed themselves in the contract. However, Lord

 Briggs, while concurring with Lord Sumption to some extent,

 provided another school of thought. In the minority opinion,

 he concurred that parties through an oral modification cannot

 implicitly waive the 'No Oral Modification Clause'. However,

 he opined that parties can waive the 'No Oral Modification

 clause' orally by acknowledging the same in the oral

 amendment. The relevant paragraphs of the judgement are

 reproduced below: Signature Not Verified and (ii) something more would be required for this
 purpose than the informal promise itself: see
 Actionstrength Ltd v International Glass
 Engineering InGl En SpA [2003] 2 AC 541, paras 9
 (Lord Bingham), 51 (Lord Walker). 23. This basic concept, that parties to a contract have
 complete freedom by further agreement to "unbind"
 themselves as to their future conduct, is in principle Signature Not Verified applicable not merely to their substantive mutual Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 30 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 obligations, but also to any procedural restraints
 upon which they may agree, including restraints as
 to how they may vary their existing contractual
 relationship. It is therefore fully applicable to the
 constraint upon their future conduct imposed by a
 NOM clause. No-one doubts that parties to a
 contract containing a NOM clause are at liberty
 thereafter to remove it from their bargain,
 temporarily or permanently, by a compliant written
 variation, following which it will not inhibit them
 from agreeing further variations purely orally. 24. The critical questions for present purposes are,
 first: whether the parties can agree to remove a
 NOM clause from their bargain orally and, second: (Underlining is ours) 42.The Tribunal, therefore in conclusion, if we may attempt to

 sum up, held that there was waiver "by conduct" of the

 Appellant against the mandatory condition precedent and the

 same attracted the principle of estoppel binding the parties. 43.Let us refer to certain Sections of Indian Contract Act, 1872 for

 a clarificatory purpose. Section 62 stipulates that "If the parties

 to a contract agree to substitute a new contract for it, or to rescind or

 alter it, the original contract, need not be performed." On the other

 hand, Section 63 of the Indian Contract Act provides that

 "Every promisee may dispense with or remit, wholly or in part, the

 performance of the promise made to him, or may extend the time for

 such performance, or may accept instead of it any satisfaction which

 he thinks fit." We'd like to emphasise on the word "agree" used

 in Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act. For any alteration to

 the terms of the contract, there must be an agreement - or

 consensus ad idem between the parties to do the same. The

 intention of the parties to alter the terms of the contract has to

 be forthcoming, evident and unambiguous. It is to be noted

 that in Section 63 of the Indian Contract Act, a principle of

 English Law has been codified into the law which provides for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 33 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 dispensation of a promise either in part or in whole without

 any consideration therefore. This proposition which finds its

 origin in English Law has been frowned upon by the superior

 Courts in India as will be discussed hereinafter. 44. In JagadBandhu Chatterjee v. Nilima Rani 11, the Supreme

 Court held: 45.In P. Dasa Muni Reddy v. P. Appa Rao12 , the Apex Court dealt

 with the issue of the principle of waiver to state that every act

 of waiver has to be a voluntary relinquishment of a right and

 that the same has to be expressly understood in the same tone

 and tenor by both the parties mutually. The relevant passage is

 reproduced hereunder: The voluntary choice is the essence of waiver. There
 should exist an opportunity for choice between the
 relinquishment and an enforcement of the right in
 question. It cannot be held that there has been a
 waiver of valuable rights where the circumstances
 show that what was done was involuntary. There
 can be no waiver of a non-existent right. Similarly,
 one cannot waive that which is not one's as a right
 at the time of waiver. Some mistake or
 misapprehension as to some facts which constitute
 the underlying assumption without which parties
 would not have made the contract may be sufficient
 to justify the court in saying that there was no
 consent." 46.In All India Power Engineer Federation v. Sasan Power Ltd.13 ,

 after taking into consideration the aforementioned judgements,

 the Supreme Court held: 47.In Chrisomar Corpn. v. MJR Steels (P) Ltd.14 , the Supreme

 Court while approving the Calcutta High Court's view in 13 (2017) 1 SCC 487 14 Signature Not Verified (2018) 16 SCC 117 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 36 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 Juggilal Kamlapat v. N.V. Internationale Crediet-En-Handels

 Vereeninging 'Rotterdam'15held that: 48.Now, the relevant question is whether the parties intended to

 agree to alter the terms of the contract with regards to the

 condition of issuance of notices, waiver and the no oral

 modification clause. 49. However, before we proceed, it will do us good to remember in

 words which have since become classic, Lord Wright in Hillas

 & Co. Ltd. v. Arcos Ltd.16 prophetically foresaw the perils of a

 court of law misconstruing the correspondences of business by

 divorcing them from their true meaning and being susceptible 15 1952 SCC OnLine Cal 250 16 Signature Not Verified 1932 All ER Rep 494 (HL) Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 37 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 to the pitfall of rewriting of a business contract. Lord Wright

 has stated: 50. In this respect, it is also relevant to refer to paragraph 16 in the

 case of MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd.17 , which reads thus: 51. In our opinion, the entire finding of the Arbitral Tribunal is

 based on the premise that the Parties have made some

 reference to adopting a "cooperative approach" when it comes

 to issuing notices. Let us examine the correctness of this finding

 while being fully aware, that neither under Section 34 nor

 under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, this Court is entitled to

 re-appreciate the evidence. However, while this Court's hands

 are tied in re-appreciating the evidence, the Court does have

 the power to examine the evidence on record to see whether

 the Tribunal has arrived at a finding based on 'no evidence'

 and 'ignorance of vital evidence'. 52. Having gone through the evidence on record pertaining to the

 events that transpired at the Meetings of both March, 2010 and

 March, 2012, this Court is unable to find any substance, evident

 or unambiguous conduct whether by words or manner, which

 unequivocally indicates that the parties intended to completely

 forgo the condition of issuance of notices. 53. We note, had that been the case, neither of the parties would

 have issued any notices nor attempted to vary the terms of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 39 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Agreement in line with Article 25.5 of the CWEETC Agreement

 for the remaining duration of their relationship. Tellingly,

 however, the same is not true. Our attention has been drawn to

 numerous documents on record before the Tribunal i.e.: iii. Notice issued by the present Appellant under Section

 7 .5 of the amended CWEETC Agreement dated

 18.12.2013 pertaining to de-scope of the balance works

 in the O&M building, etc.

 iv. Fourth Amendment of the CWEETC Agreement

 dated 4.4.2013 which was signed by both parties. (The

 Fourth Amendment of the CWEETC Agreement

 dated 4.4.2013, signed by both the parties pertained to

 an agreement for Transfer Tower No. 2. The

 Amendment was in pursuance of Clause 4.2.8 of the

 CWEETC Agreement wherein the procedure for

 amendment of the contract price was laid out. The

 parties specifically agreed that all the other terms and

 conditions of the Agreement, together with all rights Signature Not Verified and obligations of both the parties shall continue to Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 40 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 remain in force and shall continue to be binding on

 the Parties in Clause 6.2 of the Amendment) 54.The aforementioned records reveal that the Respondent had

 agreed to withdraw its letter of suspension by 14.3.2012, but

 the same was not withdrawn on 14.3.2012 nor even by the

 email dated 18.3.2012 of the Appellant. It was withdrawn only

 on 29.3.2012 when the present Appellant had established a

 Letter of Credit (L/C) of $1,266,000 and $11,450,000. It was

 submitted that the withdrawal of the suspension letter by the

 Respondent was on the basis of positive actions taken by the

 Appellant towards making outstanding payments. Pursuant to

 which the Respondent was obligated to withdraw the

 suspension, and not on the basis of its reliance on any

 purported representation made by the present Appellant in its

 email dated 18.3.2012 to waive any notice provisions. 55.Furthermore, in light of the terms of the agreement which

 explicitly bars waiver or variation variation/modification by

 conduct or orally without satisfying the twin conditions

 postulated therein - we are unable to accept that the Tribunal

 could have arrived at its conclusion of waiver and estoppel in

 the manner in which it did. 56.An Arbitral Tribunal being a creature of contract, is bound to

 act in terms of the contract under which it is constituted. An

 award can be said to shock the conscience of the Court where

 the Arbitral Tribunal has failed to act in terms of the contract or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 41 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 has ignored the specific terms of a contract. However, a

 distinction has to be drawn between failure to act in terms of a

 contract and an erroneous interpretation of the terms of a

 contract. An Arbitral Tribunal is entitled to interpret the terms

 and conditions of a contract, while adjudicating a dispute. An

 error in interpretation of a contract in a case where there is

 valid and lawful submission of arbitral disputes to an Arbitral

 Tribunal is an error within jurisdiction. 57.In PSA Sical Terminals (P) Ltd. v. V.O. Chidambranar Port

 Trust18 , the Supreme Court referred to and relied

 upon Ssangyong Engg. & Construction (supra) and observed as

 follows: (2021) 18 SCC 716 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 42 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 58.In PSA Sical Terminals (supra), the Apex Court has clarified

 that the role of the arbitrator was to arbitrate within the terms

 of the contract. He has no power apart from what the parties

 had given him under the contract. If he has travelled beyond

 the contract, he would be acting without jurisdiction. The

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in fact referred to and relied upon its

 earlier judgment in Army Welfare Housing

 Organisation v. Sumangal Services (P) Ltd.19 wherein it was

 held that: 59.This view was also taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satyanarayana Construction Co. v. Union of India20 , and more

 recently by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Indian Oil

 Corporation Limited v. Shree Ganesh Petroleum

 Rajgurunagar21 . 60.The case in hand, in our opinion is not a situation where the

 Tribunal has merely misinterpreted the terms of the contract in

 a certain way, instead, the Tribunal has chosen to completely 19 (2004) 9 SCC 619 20 (2011) 15 SCC 101 21 Signature Not Verified 2022 4 SCC 463 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 43 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 ignore the existing mandatory terms of the contract. In doing

 so, the Tribunal has effectively rewritten the contract; altering

 its very nature which it is not permitted to do for it is a creature

 of the same contract. Furthermore, as the law stands today, it is

 the exclusive domain of the arbitrator to interpret the

 contractual provisions or construe the facts of the case in a

 certain way. However, while arriving at such a decision, the

 arbitrator is not permitted to travel beyond the four-corner of

 the contract. An Arbitrator is akin to an umpire in the game of

 cricket which is equally bound by the rules of the game as is

 applicable to the players and he cannot do justice to the losing

 team, signal 'out' when the batter has clearly hit the ball

 beyond the boundary limit of the ground; going against the

 game itself. 61.In a commercial contract, the parties do have the liberty to

 unbind themselves of any obligation that the contract bestows

 upon them. In the present contracts as well, while there is a 'No

 Oral Modification clause' and a 'No waiver clause', there is also

 a provision which prescribes the manner and method for

 amendment of any of the clauses of the contract. Issuance of

 notice, being a condition precedent, could not have been

 waived without the parties following the manner and method

 for amending the relevant clauses which envisage the issuance

 of notices as being a condition precedent as per Clause 25.5.3 of

 the CWEETC Agreement and Clause 4.2.8 of the CWEETC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 44 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Agreement, both of which were followed at the time of the 4th

 Amendment of the CWEETC on 4.4.2013. ii. WHETHER THE PARTIES CAN CLAIM ESTOPPEL IN
 THE GIVEN CIRCUMSTANCES? 62.The rule of estoppel is based on the maxim: "Alleganscontraria

 non estaudiendus" meaning a person alleging contradictory

 facts should not be heard. It is based on the principle that it

 would be most inequitable and unjust that if one person, by a

 representation or by conduct amounting to a representation has

 induced another to act, the person who made the

 representation should not be allowed to deny or repudiate the

 effect of his former statements, to the loss and injury of the

 person who acted on it. Waiver is either a form of estoppel or

 an election. 63.The doctrine of estoppel by conduct means that 'where one by

 words or conduct wilfully causes another to believe in the

 existence of certain state of things and induces him to act on

 that belief, or to alter his own previous position, the former is

 precluded from averring against the latter a different state of

 things as existing at that time.' The fundamental requirement

 as to estoppel by conduct is that the estoppel must concern an

 existing state of facts. The second requirement of an estoppel

 by conduct is that it should be unambiguous. Finally, an

 estoppel cannot be relied on if the result of giving effect to it

 would be something that is prohibited by law. Estoppel is only Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 45 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 a rule of evidence. One cannot claim the foundation of an

 action upon estoppel. Estoppel is important as a step towards

 relief on the hypothesis that the defendant is estopped from

 denying the truth of something which he has said. 64.Moreover, it needs to be understood that the rule of estoppel is

 a doctrine based on fairness. It postulates the exclusion of the

 truth of the matter. All for the sake of fairness. The Supreme

 Court in Pratima Chowdhury v. Kalpana Mukherjee,22 identified four salient preconditions before invoking the rule of

 estoppel which are as follows: Therefore, the doctrine of estoppel would apply only when,

 based on a representation by the first party, the second party

 alters his position in such manner that it would be unfair to

 restore the initial position. Signature Not Verified (2014) 4 SCC 196 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 46 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 65.The Supreme Court in B.L. Sreedhar v. K.M. Munireddy23, Arijit

 Pasayat J. captured the notional and statutory essence of the

 doctrine of estoppel: 66. In Provash Chandra Dalui v. Biswanath Banerjee (supra), the

 Supreme Court dealt with the issue succinctly and has

 observed as follows : 67. A representation made by one party to another to waive of

 contractual provisions would, therefore, be precedent to an

 estoppel arising against the party making such a

 representation. In the case in hand, the Tribunal has gone

 beyond the four-corner of the contract and completely ignored

 the contractual provisions. The contract between the parties has

 a "no waiver clause" apart from having a 'No Oral

 Modification Clause'. It also contains within it, a system or

 procedure that can be resorted to in case any amendment to the

 contract has to be carried out. As the parties had followed the

 procedure laid down in Clause 25.5.3 after the November, 2012 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 48 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 meeting, they cannot be said to have forgone the procedure for

 amendment of contract at any point of time. The parties have,

 therefore, very evidently not elected to waive of the

 requirement for notices at any point of time. As it flows, if there

 is no waiver, there can be no estoppel in the present case. 68.Even if we assume that there had been a "mutual" waiver of

 the condition precedent to issue notices, even then, as a natural

 corollary, both the parties would be equally entitled to receive

 the benefit of the same principle in the adjudication of their

 claims by the Tribunal. However, our attention was drawn to

 the following Paragraphs of the Arbitral Award dealing with

 the various issues it had framed: Respondent's position
 ...1402. The failure to provide a backup mechanical
 hydraulic governor for the Turbine Generator is a
 Defect as seen in the EPC Technical Specifications
 where the requirement was clearly outlined.
 Claimant's position
 ...1403. This alleged Defect was not notified.
 Tribunal's analysis Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 51 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 ...1404. A digital electro hydraulic turbine
 governing system may be very reliable, state of the
 art and does not require a hydraulic back up system.
 But that is what was agreed to be supplied and it is
 no answer to say that it is not needed for the
 operation of the Power Station. ...1405. It is an omission in the Works but there is
 no liability as the Respondent did not give the
 requisite notification of the alleged Defect. There is
 no liability unless a Defect is shown to exist in the
 requisite period and that contractual notification of
 the Defect was given to the Claimant during the
 relevant warranty period. These two elements are
 essential regardless of the nature of the alleged
 Defect. ...1406. The Schedules to the EPC Technical
 Specification state that the approved manufacturers
 for motorised valve actuators are Rotork, Auma and
 SIPOS. In contravention of the EPCTechnical
 Specification, the motorised valve actuators that the
 Claimant provided are not from Rotork, Auma or
 SIPOS. The Claimant installed valve actuators from
 Geartork, which is not an approved vendor.I167 At
 least 85 actuators have been replaced and the
 Respondent claims a further 205 actuators will be
 replaced. Respondent's position
 ...1407. The Respondent submits that as the alleged
 Defect relates to a deviation and /or omission from
 the Works, no notice is required for this Defect as
 the Claimant must know what it constructed.
 Claimant's position
 ...1408. This alleged Defect was not notified. There
 is no liability unless a Defect is shown to exist in the
 requisite period and contractual notification was
 given to the Claimant during the relevant warranty Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 52 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 period. These two elements are essential regardless of
 the nature of the alleged Defect. Tribunal's analysis
 ...1409. It is an omission in the Works and a Defect
 but there is no liability as the Respondent did not
 give the requisite notification of the alleged Defect.
 There is no liability unless a Defect is shown to exist
 in the requisite period and contractual notification
 was given to the Claimant during the relevant
 warranty period. These two elements are essential
 regardless of the nature of the alleged Defect.
 1410. This claim is dismissed." (underlining is ours) 69. The Appellant's case is that the Tribunal has applied a

 different standard for the Parties which has had a significant

 impact on the overall financial result as most of the Appellant's

 counter claims for defects have been rejected on a threshold

 basis and the Appellant has failed to serve notice even though

 all these claims for defects arose after March, 2012 (i.e. the

 period when the Tribunal vocalised that the contractual

 requirement for issuance of notices was waived by the parties).

 In response, the Respondent contended that the Tribunal in the

 impugned Award did not intend to mean that the parties had

 meant to waive of all contractual requirements for issuances of

 notices, the parties had only agreed to waive of only a "certain

 kind" of notice i.e. the contractual condition precedent for

 issuance of notices to the extent of the issue of delays. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 53 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 70.We find this difference is artificial, ambiguous, ill-conceived,

 and contrary to records. The Tribunal has nowhere clarified

 that the waiver of requirement of issuance of notices was

 limited to certain kinds of notices and not to the entire contract.

 There is no resonance of the same anywhere in the impugned

 Award and the Respondent has also been unable to pin point

 any such intention of the Tribunal. Furthermore, it is pertinent

 to mention that the Tribunal's finding on waiver of the notice

 provisions is based on the Respondent's withdrawal of its

 notice for suspension of works on account of the Appellant's

 alleged failure to make payments in respect of invoices and did

 not relate to claims pertaining to delays. 71.A bare perusal of the abovementioned facts and principles of

 law, ex facie, makes it evident that issuance of notice was a

 condition precedent. There was a 'No Waiver clause' in the

 agreement between the parties. The said clause, as other

 clauses of the agreement, could only be amended upon

 following the procedure laid down in Clause 25.5.3 of the

 Agreement. The said procedure having not been followed, the

 conduct of the parties also does not show that there was an

 intention to waive off the requirement of issuance of notice as

 they had adhered to the requirement on multiple occasions

 thereafter. Therefore, no reasonable man could have come to

 the conclusion that the Appellant had by its conduct attempted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 54 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 to waive of the requirement of issuance of notice and, therefore,

 it was estopped from claiming otherwise. The said finding in

 this regard arrived at by the Tribunal, therefore, shocks the

 conscience of the Court. We are aware that if two views are

 possible on an interpretation of a contractual clause, there

 would not be any justification in interfering with the Award

 specially when the view by the Tribunal so taken is a possible

 or plausible one, however, in the present facts of the case, we

 have no doubt that the view taken by the Tribunal is neither

 possible nor plausible. 72.Moreover, it is but discernible that a different standard for the

 two parties has, in fact, been adopted. Despite holding that

 parties had given a go by to the formal notice provisions in

 March 2012, most of the present Appellant's counter claims for

 defects, amounting to more than Rs.150 crores (approx.) have

 been rejected on preliminary basis that the present Appellant

 had failed to serve notices even though all such claims for

 defects arose after March 2012. This court cannot turn a blind

 eye to such a glaring example of unequal treatment which

 would shock the conscience of any court. Thus, it is quite clear

 that the Tribunal has not adopted a consistent/equal approach

 insofar as this issue of notice provisions is concerned. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 55 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 B. WHETHER THE TRIBUNAL BASED ITS ANALYSIS AND
 FINDINGS ON MISTAKEN FACTS? 73.It was the Respondent's claim that the Appellant did not

 supply specific quality of Coal as agreed between the parties

 and, therefore, it was in breach of the CWEETC Agreement. In

 this regard, we consider it important to reproduce Paragraph

 606 of the Arbitral Award. made available to us in the Convenience Compilation. The

 Range of Coal as regards the Moisture Quality is clearly

 stipulated to be 9-15% but has been recorded as 9-12% by the

 Tribunal in the Arbitral Award. 75.Basing its analysis and finding on an erroneous figure, despite

 referring to the correct document, led to an incorrect finding as

 the expert's analysis on the total moisture of the coal supplied

 (At Paragraph 649 of the Arbitral Award) is between 13.7% and

 14.6% and the mean value being 13.8% which is less than the

 agreed upon 15% moisture. Although the Appellant's case was

 always that the Range of Coal had been increased to 7-15% and

 the quality of coal, therefore, supplied during the concerned

 period was within that range, the Tribunal applied the

 unamended specifications of 9-12% to conclude against the

 Appellant. This also establishes the dangerous trend of the

 Tribunal in ignoring material facts to hold the findings against

 the Appellant, as otherwise there is no reason for the Tribunal

 not to have considered the range of moisture content to be

 7-15% and not 9-12% or to wrongly quote the submissions

 despite acknowledging the amendment. While the original

 Agreements provided for a range of moisture content to be 9- Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 57 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 12% as the Tribunal also held; it was subsequently modified

 and amended to 7-15% as the range of coal for moisture and

 16.5% as the worst coal having the least calorific value. The

 Tribunal has grossly erred in concluding that the delay caused

 due to mill choking and bunker chuting is attributable to the

 Appellant due to higher moisture content in the range of coal

 as agreed between the parties. This finding ought to be set

 aside and the same would also inadvertently have an effect on

 the number of days of liquidated damages that the Parties

 would be entitled to recover for. C. WHETHER THE TRIBUNAL'SINTERPRETATION OF THE
 CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS SHOCKS THE
 CONSCIENCE OF THE COURT? i. IN ASCERTAINING THAT THE RESPONDENT WAS
 ENTITLED TO DELAY RELATED DAMAGES FOR
 PROLONGATION AND OR DISRUPTION COSTS
 GIVEN THE EXPRESS TERMS OF THE CONTRACT. 76.For the sake of convenience, the relevant Clauses of the

 CWEETC Agreement necessary to be referred to for

 adjudication of this issue are reproduced hereinbelow: Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 59 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 16.4.2 The Civil Contractor's right to payment of
 the amounts specified in Section 16 .4.1 is
 subject to the condition precedent that all
 Subcontractors shall have been paid in full for
 all amounts owing to them through the date of
 payment, and the Civil Contractor shall
 execute and deliver all such papers as the
 Owner reasonably requires for the purpose of
 assigning to and vesting in the Owner all
 rights, title and interests of the Civil
 Contractor in and to all Subcontract relating to
 the Works with respect to which payment has
 been made free of Il hens. charges and
 encumbrances of any sort. 16.4.3 Upon any termination pursuant to Section
 16 .1 or Section 16 .3, the Performance Bond
 shall be released to the Civil Contractor. Within
 forty five (45) days of termination the Parties
 shall estimate the payments to be made to the
 Civil Contractor in accordance with the
 provisions of this Agreement. If pursuant to
 such estimation any amounts are owed to the
 Civil Contractor then the Advance Payment
 Bond shall be released to the Civil Contractor
 by the Owner. 22.1 Accounting Records
 The Civil Contractor shall maintain full,
 complete and detailed fiscal and other records,
 books and accounts pertaining to the Works in
 accordance with Indian generally accepted
 accounting principles and in the English
 language. The Owner shall have the right to
 obtain independent third parties (such third
 party being mutually agreed to between the
 Parties) to inspect and audit, during business
 hours, all of such records, which may be Signature Not Verified required for verification of extra claims lodged Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 60 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 by the Civil Contractor, if in dispute. Such
 records, books and accounts shall be preserved
 by the Civil Contractor for a period of three (3)
 years after Final Acceptance of the Power
 Station at no additional cost to the Owner." (underlining is ours) 77.When the parties entered into an agreement in 2008, only three

 units were envisioned. In May 2010, a fourth unit was brought

 within the purview of the agreements. However, all the works

 stood suspended in the said Unit 4 by the Respondent on

 15.8.2011. On 27.4.2017, in its Statement of Claims at Paragraph

 576, the present Respondent made a claim for CNY 248,833,587

 as the cost of purchased equipment and abortive and/or

 additional work caused by the suspension of Unit 4. 78.In its Statement of Defence and Counter Claims, dated 3.9.2017

 at Paragraph 18.3.11, the Appellant puts the Respondent to

 strict proof of the alleged costs of all the manufactured

 equipment as claimed by it. In the Reply to the Statement of

 Defence and Counter Claims, the Respondent vide Paragraph

 515 has stated that the Respondent would provide particulars

 of the loss in due course. 79.However, interestingly, no such particulars were provided and

 the Appellant was constrained to move an application for

 production of documents which were relevant for ascertaining

 the cost of purchased equipment, storage and maintenance

 costs of the equipment that were purportedly manufactured Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 61 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 but not delivered for Unit 4. Despite having undertaken to

 provide these documents, the Respondent failed to honour the

 promise and stated that instead of calculating its claim under

 this head as per the actual cost, they would use the billing

 breakup (hereinafter referred to as "BBU") whereby no

 documents or material would be required to be produced. The

 Appellant objected to the same stating that the BBU are

 documents which are unilaterally submitted by the Respondent

 and hence not verifiable. It was further contended by the

 Appellant that the Respondent should provide proof that the

 equipment for which it claims for prolongation costs was

 "actually manufactured" and had been in storage for the last

 seven years, especially considering no such claim or intimation

 was made to the Appellant prior to filing of the Statement of

 Claim. 80.In this regard, we consider it relevant to refer to the following

 paragraphs of the Arbitral Award. Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 63 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 (b) SEPCO's claims for time prior to this date
 was that all such were resolved, but it had no
 effect on, and did not address or resolve,
 SEPCO's claims for money arising prior to this
 date. (c) It did not give rise to any automatic
 entitlement to prolongation costs. If the Claimant
 seeks prolongation costs in respect of matters
 before and after the November 2012 Jinan
 Agreement, the Claimant is required to establish
 all of the contractual elements which are required
 to give rise to an entitlement to prolongation
 costs, including requisite procedural notices, and
 the reasons for and length of, any critical delays. " 81. Paragraph 161 of the Arbitral Award unequivocally states that

 the Claimant bore the onus of establishing all elements

 justifying a contractual entitlement to a claim for prolongation

 costs. We may further refer to the following portions of the

 Arbitral Award keeping Article 22.1 of the CWEETC

 Agreement in mind. The relevant paras from the arbitral award

 are as follows; ...919. There is no dispute that the Claimant is
 entitled to be paid for the cost of Unit 4 equipment
 that was delivered or installed. The Respondent
 accepts that the Claimant is entitled to the "cost of
 all works completed prior to the date of suspension
 of the Unit 4 works which it is accepted is August
 2011 "and reasonable and unavoidable cancellation
 charges imposed by sub-contractors as a result of the
 termination of their subcontracts. ...923. The Claim for damages is made on a
 costs incurred basis, and in the alternative, on the
 basis that the Claimant has lost the amount that
 would have been paid by the Respondent to the
 Claimant had the work been performed. ...925. This claim was quantified at CNY
 248,833,587 and related to 30 items which had been
 delivered to site but which had not been installed
 and 30 items that had not been delivered at all.
 Subsequently, the claim was changed to delete the
 claim in respect of the 30 items delivered to site. The
 number of undelivered items of equipment increased
 from 30 to 41. 926. The Claimant in the course of these
 proceedings made its claim on the alternative and
 different basis namely for damages for breach of
 contract. The Claimant in its PI-IS claimed "the
 value of the amount for Unit 4 equipment and
 materials manufactured but not delivered to Site,
 plusprofit on these elements."739 It was made on
 the basis that the Claimant should be put back in the
 position it would have been but for the Respondent's Signature Not Verified breach of contract. Had the contract been performed, Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 66 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 the Claimant would have received the equipment,
 supplied it to the Respondent and "would have been
 paid for the value of the Unit 4 equipment in
 accordance with the terms of the Offshore Supply
 Agreement, and have made a profit, assessed at 5%
 (including overheads)."740 This alternative analysis
 is only applicable where but for the breach, the
 equipment would have been supplied and delivered
 to the Respondent and the Respondent would have
 paid the Claimant the value of the equipment. 927. The alternative claim is available in a typical
 case to allow a claimant to recover the benefits that
 it would have received had the contract been
 performed. However, in the present situation the
 parties have agreed in Section 9 .3 that neither party
 shall be liable to the other for any indirect,
 incidental or consequential damages or anticipated
 profits whether as a consequence of the negligence of
 a party or otherwise. 928. The Respondent accepts that any costs
 incurred by the Claimant are recoverable but
 submits that the other claim put forward was a false
 claim and asks that the Tribunal dismiss the claim
 in its entirety. 929. The Claimant primarily relies on settlement
 agreements made with each of the suppliers of
 undelivered Unit 4 equipment in support of both
 bases upon which it claims damages. The settlement
 agreements are put forward as a compromise
 agreement pursuant to the principle in Biggin& Co
 Ltd v Permanite. [1951] 2 KB 314. In that case,,
 unlike the present, the party entered into a
 settlement agreement which compromised its claims. 930. Here the claimant has obtained settlement
 agreements that are more in the nature of a witness
 statement in standard form by the Claimant and the Signature Not Verified supplier. A typical example of thedocument' Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 67 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 records; (i) the original subcontract; (H) the
 subcontract was performed until it was suspended
 in August 2011; (iii) thereafter the materials and
 equipment were stored; (iv) the supplier suffered
 loss and the parties wish to settle the related
 matters. The parties agree (i) they have inspected the equipment and "confirm"
 the equipment was prepared and manufactured as
 set out in appendix 1, (ii) the equipment cannot
 normally be used and the supplier should dispose of
 the equipment to mitigate the loss and the disposal
 income is purportedly stated, (iii) the parties agree
 to settle by the Claimant paying the settled amount
 to the supplier less the disposal income, after the
 conclusion of the arbitration; and (iv) the Claimant
 agrees to pay for the storage charges. 931. As noted by the Respondent, the terms of the
 settlement agreements do not state or record the
 actual amount due and owing to the supplier" or
 payable under the settlement agreement." The
 Claimant contends that the completion ratio, if
 endorsed by a decision of the Tribunal, would be the
 basis on which the suppliers would be paid. The
 suppliers would be paid no matter what. The
 settlement agreements were obtained in or around
 July 2018. 932. Shortly afterwards, when the factual witness
 statements exchanged, the amount claimed was not
 claimed as the "amount of account payable" but
 became "BBU value." This caused the amount
 claimed to increase from CNY 248,833,587 (page 57
 of Mr Prudhoe's First Report {E/15/64}) to CNY
 317,072,901 (page 65 of Mr Prudhoe's First
 Report{E/15/72}). Mr Prudhoe explains in his
 report the change or development of the assessment
 of the claim from one of cost incurred by the Signature Not Verified Claimant including any storage charges, Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 68 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 administration costs and Credit for salvage value, to
 one of the value of the equipment on the BBU basis
 cost to the Respondent. The reason for the change
 was made apparent when he freely admitted in cross
 examination; "My assessment, in my view, is the
 proper way, even though it is different to the
 claim."" 933. The Tribunal rejects the suggestion that a
 false claim was constructed or put forward. The
 assessment was undertaken diligently and in an
 open and transparent manner. The multitude of
 variations in, and the inconclusiveness of, the
 settlement agreements however is such that they do
 not establish a basis on which to assess the claim of
 the costs incurred by the Claimant including any
 storage charges and any salvage value in the
 equipment. 934. The Claimant did prepare an itemised Status
 List of the undelivered equipment as at 24 October
 2011.746 There is no suggestion that this critical
 document was not accurate. This evidence and the
 evidence from some of the suppliers when
 approaches made to those suppliers at the time of the
 hearing, does establish that the Claimant
 nonetheless has a liability to third party suppliers
 for undelivered equipment in respect of which it is
 entitled to compensation. ...937. The Tribunal finds that the Claimant is
 entitled to damages on account of costs claimed by
 third parties for undelivered equipment as a result of
 the cancellation of Unit 4 calculated as follows: (underlining is ours) 83.Our attention was further drawn to the Respondent's Post- hearing Submissions, especially Paragraph 501, reproduced

 hereinbelow: 84.Therefore, the Appellant contends that the only evidence in

 respect of the Respondent's claims for prolongation costs was

 the report of Mr. Prudhoe, who had not provided any

 background documents to the Tribunal or GEL's experts in

 support of his assessment. He had only perused extracts from

 the Respondent's project cost ledgers indicating only the

 categories of costs. The ledgers were not produced in its

 entirety. Moreover, access to the ledgers was refused on the

 ground of confidentiality of total costs. It was then contended

 that Mr. Prudhoe had not even conducted the audit himself,

 but had relied on an audit conducted by his assistant who was

 not even called upon to depose in the arbitration proceedings. 85.It is quite perplexing to note that no evidence of prolongation

 cost has been led or dealt with and the accounts have not been

 provided by the party who is claiming the cost apart from

 some ostensible 'Settlement Agreements' entered into with the

 alleged subcontractors in a standard format; in or around July, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 71 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 2018. These settlement agreements do not indicate any

 payment actually having been made or due to the

 subcontractors except for a promise that should the

 Respondent recover any money, some payment would be

 released to the subcontractors. The basis of the these claims is

 said to have been conducted by Mr. Prudhoe's assistant; who

 in turn claims to have seen the accounts relevant to making

 such a claim for prolongation cost. All such assertions fall

 within the often frowned upon and dangerous realm of

 "hearsay evidence" which is inadmissible. 86.It is disquieting to note that neither Mr. Prudhoe nor the

 Tribunal have seen these accounts despite multiple requests by

 the Appellant to place such documents on record. When Mr.

 Prudhoe and the Tribunal have both not seen the relevant

 accounts directly, reliance on the version of some assistant who

 has not deposed to prove the veracity of the contents of the

 records turning out to be unreliable. It is settled law that proof

 of "actual payment" must be pleaded, proved and established

 unambiguously as has been consistently laid down by the

 judgments of the Supreme Court24. 87.Even as per the contractual scheme of Section 16 .4, the

 Respondent would have been entitled to make a claim for Unit-

 4 equipment and also other prolongation costs insofar as third- 24 SeeONGC v. Saw Pipes (2003) 5 SCC 705; Mecamidi S.A. v. FlovelMG Holdings Private Limited , Signature Not Verified 2019 SCC OnLine Del 9414. Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 72 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 party payments were concerned and to receive payment.

 Therefore, under Section 16 .4.1 only if it had satisfied the

 condition precedent requiring that all sub-contractors shall be

 paid in full for all amounts owed to them. The erroneous

 finding by the Tribunal has enabled the Respondent to receive

 an award for damages for the Unit 4 equipment (Issue no.12)

 for a sum of more than Rs.200 Crores (approx.), even though

 the Respondent has, in fact, admittedly made no payments to

 the sub-contractors. In effect, the Tribunal has proceeded to

 award a claim for which "no proof of payment" was produced,

 the same is a vexing position taken by the Tribunal which

 cannot be sustained. The Tribunal has ignored the specific

 terms of the contract which amounts to a jurisdictional error. 88. It is trite to consider the observation made by the Supreme

 Court in Associated Engineering Co. v. Govt. of A.P.25 which is

 reproduced as follows: ChintamanraoBalaji [(1964) 5 SCR 480 : AIR 1965
 SC 214] . We are in complete agreement with Mr
 Madhava Reddy's submissions on the point. 24. The arbitrator cannot act arbitrarily,
 irrationally, capriciously or independently of the
 contract. His sole function is to arbitrate in terms of
 the contract. He has no power apart from what the
 parties have given him under the contract. If he has
 travelled outside the bounds of the contract, he has
 acted without jurisdiction. But if he has remained
 inside the parameters of the contract and has
 construed the provisions of the contract, his award
 cannot be interfered with unless he has given
 reasons for the award disclosing an error apparent
 on the face of it. 25. An arbitrator who acts in manifest disregard of
 the contract acts without jurisdiction. His authority
 is derived from the contract and is governed by the Arbitration Act which embodies principles derived
 from a specialised branch of the law of agency (see
 Mustill and Boyd's Commercial Arbitration, 2nd
 edn., p. 641). He commits misconduct if by his
 award he decides matters excluded by the agreement
 (see Halsbury's Laws of England, Volume II, 4th
 edn.,para 622). A deliberate departure from contract
 amounts to not only manifest disregard of his
 authority or a misconduct on his part, but it may
 tantamount to a mala fide action. A conscious
 disregard of the law or the provisions of the contract
 from which he has derived his authority vitiates the
 award. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 74 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 28. In the instant case, the umpire decided matters
 strikingly outside his jurisdiction. He outstepped the
 confines of the contract. He wandered far outside the
 designated area. He digressed far away from the
 allotted task. His error arose not by misreading or
 misconstruing or misunderstanding the contract,
 but by acting in excess of what was agreed. It was an
 error going to the root of his jurisdiction because he
 asked himself the wrong question, disregarded the
 contract and awarded in excess of his authority. In
 many respects, the award flew in the face of
 provisions of the contract to the contrary. [See the
 principles stated in Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign
 Compensation Commission [(1969) 2 AC 147 : 29. The umpire, in our view, acted unreasonably,
 irrationally and capriciously in ignoring the limits
 and the clear provisions of the contract. In awarding
 claims which are totally opposed to the provisions of
 the contract to which he made specific reference in
 allowing them, he has misdirected and misconducted
 himself by manifestly disregarding the limits of his
 jurisdiction and the bounds of the contract from
 which he derived his authority thereby acting ultra
 finescompromissi." Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 75 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 89. The Tribunal, in the present case, also has transgressed its

 limits by completely ignoring the contractual agreement

 between the parties. This is squarely in conflict with the sweep

 of the expression "fundamental policy of India" as judicially

 carved out by the Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan and

 Anr. v. Ferro Concrete Construction Pvt. Ltd.26 , where an

 award which used the Statement of Claims amount and

 nothing more, was held to be illegal and beyond the

 jurisdiction of the Tribunal. The Supreme Court has also echoes

 similar sentiments in Ferro Concrete Construction (supra)

 which is extracted hereinbelow: 90.Further reliance can be placed on the High Court of Delhi's

 judgment in ZemanTechnogroup v. Union of India27where

 RavindraBhat J. had opined that: 26 GhanshyamDassDamani, (2018) 11 SCC 328, set
 outs extremely limited circumstances whereby the
 Court can require re-adjudication and the conditions
 applicable. Those conditions too do not apply in this
 case." (The emphasis is ours) 91. It is thus clear that the basis on which the Tribunal has

 awarded the said claim in question is impermissible in Indian

 Law given the unequivocal position of law as discussed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 77 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 hereinabove. An award in conflict with or in derogation of law

 declared by a superior court will be violative of the

 fundamental policy of Indian law. ii. IN ASCERTAINING THAT THE AGREEMENTS
 EXCLUDED THE COMMON LAW RIGHT OF
 TERMINATION, SUCH AS ACCEPTANCE OF
 REPUDIATORY BREACHES. 92.For the sake of convenience, the relevant Clauses of the

 CWEETC Agreement necessary to be referred to for

 adjudication of this issue are reproduced herein below: (underlining is ours) 93.On this point a reference may be made to the following

 relevant paragraphs of the Arbitral Award: Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 78 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 963. Furthermore, Section 16 .3.1 of the Amended
 CWEETC Agreement expressly provides that the
 Claimant's contractual right to terminate for default
 "is without prejudice to any other right or remedy
 the Civil Contractor may have under the Agreement
 or applicable Law or in equity..." Consequently, the
 Tribunal finds that the Claimant's common law
 remedies were not excluded." (Underlining is ours) 94.The Tribunal has held that although the Agreements contain a

 termination mechanism, the mechanism is not a comprehensive

 or exclusive regime. It has held that the common law right of

 termination was not excluded by the provisions of the

 Agreement. The same, in fact, is directly contrary to the express

 provisions of Section 4 .16 of the Amended CWEETC

 Agreement as well as the Amended Onshore Supply

 Agreement all of which specifically state that the "termination

 rights set out in this Agreement are comprehensive and exclusive and

 take into account all relevant risks relating to the Works, whether

 foreseeable or not.". 95.Therefore, by holding that the Respondent had the right to

 terminate the agreements on account of the alleged repudiatory

 breaches of the Appellant, and disregarding the otherwise

 express provisions of the contract; the Tribunal has re-written

 the Agreements by exceeding its jurisdiction, especially when,

 it is no longer res integra that an Arbitral Tribunal is bound by

 the terms of the contract by virtue of it being a creature of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 79 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 contract as well as the statutory mandate of Section 28 (3) of the

 A&C Act. If the Arbitrator gives an award by ignoring the

 terms and conditions of the contract and by travelling beyond

 the terms and conditions of the contract, the award is liable to

 be set aside. 96.It is also apposite to note that at this juncture the Tribunal came

 to a finding that the Respondent by its correspondence in late

 2014 and the demobilisation of its commissioning team from

 the work site on or around 24 January 2015, accepted the

 repudiatory breaches by the Appellant and brought the

 Agreements to an end. The relevant passage reads as follows; Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 80 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 97.With such finding, the Tribunal has awarded to the

 Respondent a prayer which in fact had been abandoned in the

 first place. The Respondent in its post-hearing submissions had

 invited the Tribunal to find that the Agreements were brought

 to an end by its letter dated 31stMarch, 2016 and not January,

 2015. By holding that the Respondent had the right to terminate

 the agreement under common law, the Tribunal has re-written

 the Agreements to overcome the express terms of Section 16 ,

 holding that they would not be applicable and the

 Respondent's entitlement to payments on account of

 termination would not be limited by the provisions of Section

 16 .4.1 of the Agreement. Such an act of the Tribunal does not

 pass muster and shocks the conscience of the court.

 iii. IN ASCERTAINING THAT THE RESPONDENT WAS
 LIABLE TO RECEIVE 5% OF CONTRACTUAL PRICE
 UPON COMPLETION OF THE TESTS? 98.For the sake of convenience, the relevant Clauses of the

 CWEETC Agreement necessary to be referred to for

 adjudication of this issue are reproduced herein below: 6.1.1.2During all testing, each Unit or the Power
 Station will be operated within normal
 operational design limits of the equipment, in
 accordance with the manufacturers'
 recommendations (as indicated in the
 respective operation and maintenance
 manuals) and in a manner consistent with the
 practices of a Reasonable and Prudent
 Contractor and Reasonable and Prudent
 Operator for long-term operation. During the
 tests and for all times when the Power Station
 or Unit operation is interconnected with the
 Grid. the instructions of the SLDC or the
 RLDC, as the case may be. will, be binding
 and the Power Station or Unit will be
 operated according to the applicable Grid
 Code, provided however, that the grid
 conditions will not require the Civil
 Contractor to cause operation of the Power
 Station or any Unit thereof beyond the
 technical limits. 6.1.1.3 The Civil Contractor shall conduct all tests as Signature Not Verified a Reasonable and Prudent Contractor and Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 82 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Reasonable and Prudent Operator. Further all
 such tests shall be conducted in accordance
 with this Agreement (including the Technical
 Specifications). Design Documentation,
 O&M Manuals, and all warranties of
 vendors, manufacturers and insurance
 policies. 6.1.2.5 Acceptance of Mechanical Completion
 Report. If the Owner is not satisfied that the
 respective Unit or the Power Station is
 Mechanically Complete it may endorse the
 Mechanical Completion Report accordingly,
 stating in what way such Unit or the Power
 Station is not Mechanically Complete in
 accordance with this Agreement. The Civil
 Contractor shall then remedy the deficiencies
 as necessary and shall repeat the procedures
 described hereinabove. 6.1.4 Acceptance Tests
 6.1.4.1 Test Conditions
 The test conditions are particularly described
 in the Technical Specifications. During the
 Acceptance Tests, the respective Unit or the
 Power Station, as the case may be, will be
 operated from the Power Station control room
 with systems normally operated in the modes
 as provided in the Technical Specifications.
 All systems must be ready for normal and
 continuous operation. The use of temporary
 equipment will not be allowed unless
 approved by the Owner. During testing, the
 respective. Unit or the Power Station, as the
 case may be, will be operated with requisite
 staffing where the operating functions will be
 conducted by the Owner's operating staff who Signature Not Verified will report to and be under the responsibility, Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 83 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 control and supervision of the Civil
 Contractor (who shall remain responsible for
 meeting the requirements of and achieving the
 tests) till Take Over of the respective Unit or
 the Power Station, as the case may be. The
 respective Unit or the Power Station, as the
 case may be, will run in a normal manner
 with no equipment shutdown to reduce
 auxiliary load. Where redundant capacity is
 provided.only equipment required for normal
 operation shall be in operation
 6.1.4.2 Notice for Acceptance Tests and Owner's
 right to reschedule (i) The Civil Contractor shall give at least
 thirty (30) days (but not more than
 sixty (60) days) prior notice to the
 Owner of the anticipated schedule prior
 to the beginning of such Acceptance
 Tests, together with a time schedule for
 each of the tests comprising the
 Acceptance Tests ("Performance Test
 Notice"). Such schedule shall be subject
 to the approval of the Owner. If the
 Acceptance Tests are not expected to
 begin by the date specified in the
 Performance Test Notice, the Civil
 Contractor shall be required to notify
 the Owner as under: In any such event (under paragraph (a)
 and (b) above), there will be no
 adjustment to any of the Milestones
 and Guaranteed Date of Completion
 and any additional costs suffered by the
 Civil Contractor shall be to the Civil
 Contractor's account. (ii) Notwithstanding the above, the Owner
 shall have the right to suggest
 alternative dates for the conduct of
 Acceptance Test (including for reasons
 related to any electrical output
 demands of the Power Procurers) and
 the Civil Contractor shall accommodate
 any such request by the Owner. In the
 event of such rescheduling effected at
 the request of the Owner, the Owner
 shall provide the Civil Contractor with
 an equitable adjustment to the Detailed
 Programme and/or Project Schedule for
 any delay caused by such rescheduling
 pursuant to this Agreement and
 reimburse any Costs incurred by the
 Civil Contractor. (iii) In the event each of the Units is capable
 of successfully conducting the
 Reliability Run or Performance
 Guarantee Test. but the Civil
 Contractor is unable to perform the test
 due to reasons not attributable to the
 Civil Contractor or any Subcontractor.
 the portion of the Contract Price due Signature Not Verified upon Reliability Run or Performance Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 85 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Guarantee Test of such Unit shall be
 paid to the Civil Contractor not later
 than three (3) months after the date
 upon which it was otherwise available
 for a Reliability Run or a Performance
 Guarantee Test: provided that the Civil
 Contractor shall not be relieved from its
 obligation to perform the Reliability
 Run or Performance Guarantee Test in
 accordance with this Agreement. For
 such period of suspension.the Civil
 Contractor shall be entitled to obtain
 from the Owner a Variation Order
 covering reasonable costs due to
 suspension and appropriate adjustment
 to the Project Schedule, the relevant
 Milestone Dates and the Guaranteed
 Date of Completion in accordance with
 this Agreement. (iv) If the Civil Contractor is unable to
 conduct the Reliability Run or
 Performance Guarantee Test for the
 last Unit due to reasons not
 attributable to the Civil Contractor or
 any Subcontractor for more. than six
 (6) months after the date upon which it
 was otherwise available for a Reliability
 Run or a Performance Guarantee Test. the Civil Contractor shall be entitled to
 demobilize from the Site. 6.1.4.3The Civil Contractor shall not perform or
 undertake any Acceptance Test. if. all
 conditions and requirements that must be
 fulfilled under this Agreement have not been
 duly fulfilled, including those related to
 Works necessary for the safe performance of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 86 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 any Acceptance Tests or Works that are
 incomplete or defective. 6.1.4.4 No materials equipment system incorporated
 into the Power Station shall. be operated
 during any Acceptance Tests in excess of the
 limits allowed by its manufacturer to
 maintain the warranties such materials
 equipment system. 6.1.4.5 The Civil Contractor shall cooperate with the
 Owner to allow the Owner's Representative.
 Owner's engineer, the Independent Engineer
 or any third party expert appointed by the
 Owner.the Power Procurers or the Lenders to
 attend, monitor and witness any and all of the
 Acceptance Tests. 6.1.4.6 Test Reports (i) The Civil Contractor shall submit to
 the Owner (with copies to the
 Independent Engineer) a written
 report for each of the Acceptance Tests,
 stating: The Owner shall respond to such
 reports within two (2) Business Days,
 either agreeing to the conclusions of the
 test reports or in case of its
 disagreement with the matters
 contained in such reports providing in
 reasonable detail the reasons for such
 disagreement. In case the Owner disagrees with the
 matters contained in such reports. the
 Owner will notify the reasons therefor
 in accordance with the provisions of
 this Agreement, including the
 Technical Specifications, to the Civil
 Contractor and the Civil Contractor
 shall re-perform and re-test, as
 applicable and as advised by the Other
 Contractors in order to respond
 properly to the objections raised by the
 Owner and may thereafter again
 deliver the relevant written report for
 the approval. The Reliability Run and the Unit Signature Not Verified Characteristics Test shall be deemed to Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 89 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 have been successfully completed only
 after the Owner has agreed in writing
 to such test report or the test is deemed
 to have been successfully completed in
 accordance with this Article 6 and the
 Technical Specifications. In case the
 Owner does not respond to such test
 reports submitted by the Civil
 Contactor within two (2) Business
 Days from the date of receipt the
 reports from the Civil Contractor, the
 Civil Contractor shall be entitled to an
 extension of the Project Schedule and
 shall be reimbursed at actuals any
 additional Costs incurred by the Civil
 Contractor on account of such delay by
 the Owner in responding to the test
 reports; provided that in case the
 Owner provides no response to such
 test reports on or before twenty-one
 (21) days from the date of receipt of the
 tests reports from the Civil Contractor
 then such tests shall be deemed to have
 been passed. 6.1.5 Reliability Run
 6.1.5.1Reliability Run is to be conducted only after
 successful completion of the Initial Operation
 and have to be successfully completed prior to
 the commencement of the Unit Characteristics
 Tests. All necessary adjustments shall be made to the
 respective Unit While operating over the full
 range enabling the respective Unit to be made
 ready for the Reliability Run. The Reliability
 Run shall only be carried out provided the
 respective Unit is fully available for full toad Signature Not Verified operation. The duration of the Reliability Run Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 90 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 shall be as specified in the Technical
 Specifications. 6.1.5.2The Reliability Run shall be considered
 successful provided that the requirements set
 forth in the Technical Specifications have been
 satisfied. 6.1.5.3 For the determination of the period of the
 Reliability Run the time of actual operation
 shall be measured. In case the duration of
 actual continuous operation during the test
 period as per the Technical Specifications is
 discontinued for cause's attributable to the
 Owner, the Civil Contractor would have been
 deemed to have operated the Unit(s) or the
 Power Station at the required load during
 such period of discontinuation. "However, in
 such cases the Owner can, at its option,
 require the period of the test to be extended
 appropriately in which case the Civil
 Contractor would be eligible for an extension
 of the relevant Milestone "Date or Guaranteed
 Date of Completion by an equivalent period
 and any additional costs reasonably incurred
 by the Civil Contractor for such extension
 shall be reimbursed. However, should any test that is part of the
 Reliability Run (as set forth in the Technical
 Specification) be discontinued due to any
 default of the Civil Contractor, or any
 Subcontractor, such test shall be conducted
 again. Should any failure (other than that of
 an entirely minor nature) due to or arising
 out of faulty design, materials, or
 workmanship or omissions.incorrect erection
 or improper operating instructions occur in
 any part or all of the respective Unit or the Signature Not Verified Power Station, as the case may be, in a Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 91 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 manner that prevents safe commercial use of
 the respective. Unit or the Power Station, as
 the case may be, a Reliability Run period of
 fourteen (14) days shall be conducted after the
 defect has been remedied. The onus of proving
 that any failure is not due to faulty design,
 materials and workmanship shall lie solely
 with the Civil Contractor. 6.1.5.4Reliability Run would be deemed to have been
 successfully completed only after the Owner
 has agreed in writing to such test report or the
 test is deemed to have been successfully
 completed in accordance with this Section
 6 .1. 6.1.6 Unit Characteristic Tests
 6.1.6.1The Unit Characteristic Tests are to be
 carried out to demonstrate compliance of the
 respective Unit or the Power Station, as the
 case may be, with the required functional
 capabilities as per the agreed parameters and
 will be conducted in accordance with and as
 particularly described in the Technical
 Specifications. 6.1.6.2Unit Characteristic Tests would be deemed to
 have been successfully completed only after
 the Owner has agreed in writing to a
 satisfactory test report or the test is deemed to
 have been successfully completed in
 accordance with Section 6 .1.4.6(iv) and the
 Technical Specifications. 6.1.7 Performance Guarantee Test
 6.1.7.1 General conditions for Performance
 Guarantee Test
 The Performance Guarantee Test would
 be conducted to determine the level of Signature Not Verified achievement of the Performance Guarantees Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 92 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 for the purpose of Take Over of the respective
 Units or the Power Station, as the case may
 be. The Performance Guarantee Test for the
 Power Station shall be successfully completed
 alongwith the Performance Guarantee Test for
 the last Unit. The Performance Guarantee
 Test would be conducted over a continuous
 period of seventy-two (72) hours without any
 interruption. The Performance Guarantee
 Tests for each Unit and the Power Station
 shall be successfully completed within a period
 of two hundred and twenty (220) days from
 the respective dates of successful completion of
 the Reliability Run. The Performance
 Guarantee Tests may be carried out for a
 maximum number of three (3) tests only.
 Further, provided that the cumulative
 aggregate shut-down period for preparing to
 conduct the three (3) tests shall not exceed a
 period of nineteen (19) days. The Power Station or any Unit thereof will
 not be deemed ready for the Performance
 Guarantee Test if any of the following
 conditions exists: 6.1.7.2Performance Guarantee Test procedure Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 93 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 The procedure including the definitions,
 calculation method to he used, method of
 correction of test results for change in
 guaranteed reference conditions, the
 instrumentation to be installed, the
 instrument accuracy class, and the items,
 which specifically require preparation and
 agreement. are particularly provided for in the
 Technical Specifications. The Civil Contractor
 will prepare a detailed test procedure based on
 such Specification and submit the same for
 review and approval by the Owner during the
 detailed engineering phase. 6.1.7.3 Codes and Standards to be used
 The Performance Guarantee Test shall be
 carried out, at no additional cost. or expense
 to the Owner, as per the performance test
 codes set forth in the Technical Specifications.
 6.1.7.4 Instrumentation
 All test instrumentation (other than Power
 Station instrumentation) required for the
 Performance Guarantee Test pursuant to the
 Technical Specifications shall be arranged by
 the Civil Contractor at its own cost. 6.1.7.5 Guaranteed Parameters
 The determination of the level of achievement
 of the Performance Guarantees would be done
 only when the respective Unit or the Power
 Station, as the case may be, is operating under
 steady state operations. The Performance Guarantee parameters which
 will be tested measured during the
 Performance Guarantee Test would be as set
 forth in the Technical Specifications as
 detailed in Sub section-VIII of Volume-II.
 Section-2A of Part-B (for BTG) and Part C Signature Not Verified (for BOP). Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 94 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 6.1.7.6 Corrections to Test results
 The Performance Guarantee parameters, as
 measured during the Performance Guarantee
 Test, will be adjusted only for such reference
 conditions and fuel specifications as
 specifically provided in the Technical
 Specifications for such correction and using
 correction curves as provided therein.
 6.1.7.7 Performance Guarantee Test Report (i) The Civil Contractor shall after the
 completion of Performance Guarantee
 Test submit (by facsimile or otherwise
 by same day delivery) a report
 ("Performance Test Report") to the
 Owner for its review and approval. The reports shall be in a format as
 specified in this Agreement and shall
 also include a certification from the
 Civil Contractor that the Performance
 Guarantee Test was conducted in
 accordance with this Agreement. (ii) The Owner shall respond to the
 Performance Test Report submitted by
 the Civil Contractor within seven (7)
 days of receipt of such Performance
 Test Report ("Owner Response
 Period"). (iii) If the Owner disagrees with matters
 contained in the Performance Test
 Report, the Owner's response shall set
 forth in reasonable detail the reasons
 for such disagreement and the Civil
 Contractor shall perform such
 corrective measures as in its judgment
 may be required, including any
 necessary re-testing. if applicable, to Signature Not Verified respond properly to the objections Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 95 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 raised by the Owner and may
 thereafter again deliver such
 Performance Test Report. (iv) The Performance Guarantee Test shall
 be deemed to have been successfully
 completed only after the Owner has
 agreed in writing to the Performance
 Test Report or the test is deemed to
 have been successfully completed in
 accordance with this Section 6 .1 and
 the Technical Specifications. In case
 the Owner does not respond to such
 test reports submitted by the Civil
 Contactor within the Owner Response
 Period, the Civil Contractor shall be
 entitled to an extension of the Project
 Schedule and shall be reimbursed at
 actuals any additional Costs incurred
 by the Civil Contractor on account of
 such delay by the Owner in
 responding to the test reports. (v) Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 , the Civil Contractor
 shall have the right to re-run the
 Performance Guarantee Test, but only
 after giving thirty-six (36) hours prior
 written notice to the Owner. 6.1.7.8 Results of Performance Guarantee Test (i) If, after the Owner's review of the
 Performance Test Report. the Owner
 agrees with the resubs of such report
 and is satisfied that the Civil
 Contractor has achieved at least the
 Minimum Performance Standards, it
 will issue, within the Owner Response
 Period. a certificate to that effect Signature Not Verified ("Minimum Performance Standards Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 96 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Certificate"), and, if the Civil
 Contractor, has in addition to
 achievement of the Performance
 Guarantees also satisfied the
 conditions specified in Section 6 .1.7.8 (ii), a certificate confirming that the
 Performance Guarantees have been
 met ("Performance Guarantee
 Certificate"). In each such case, the
 date of the relevant certificate shall be
 the date of the corresponding
 Performance Test Report submitted by
 the Civil Contractor. In case the Minimum Performance
 Standards are not achieved, the Civil
 Contractor shall, subject to Section
 6.1.7.1, take all remedial measures
 necessary and continue to test and re- test until such Minimum Performance
 Standards are achieved subject to time
 limitations as provided under this
 Agreement. (ii) When the Civil Contractor has in
 relation to any Unit, or the Power
 Station, completed the following, the
 Civil Contractor may apply for the
 Performance Guarantee Certificate of
 such Unit or the Power Station: provided that the Owner will
 make available ai no extra cost
 such commissioning spares to
 the Civil Contractor in case the
 same is required by the Civil
 Contractor for the performance
 of its warranty obligations
 hereunder: Subject to Section 6 .1.7.1. if the
 Minimum Performance Standards or
 the Performance Guarantees have not
 been achieved at the first Performance
 Guarantee Test conducted after the
 successful completion of the Reliability
 Run to determine the achievement of
 the Performance Guarantees, the Civil
 Contractor shall undertake remedial
 action (the period of shutdown for such
 remediation not to exceed nineteen (19)
 days less the period of shutdown for the
 first Performance Guarantee Test)
 within a period not exceeding two
 hundred and twenty (220) days from
 the successful completion of the
 Reliability Run. The Civil Contractor
 shall give the Owner not less than
 fifteen (15) days notice in writing of the
 period during which the Civil
 Contractor would undertake remedial
 action to achieve the Minimum
 Performance Standards or the
 Performance Guarantees, and such
 notice shall be given together with a
 revised Detailed Programme setting
 forth the actions, proposed to be taken
 by the Civil Contractor, the times
 schedule for such remedial action and
 the analysis of the impact that such
 remedial action would have on the Signature Not Verified operation and maintenance of the Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 102 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 respective Unit or the Power Station
 (by way of reduced availability etc.). as
 the case may be ("Corrective Action
 Plan"). If the Minimum Performance
 Standards have been achieved but the
 Performance Guarantees have not been
 achieved within fifteen (15) days after
 the receipt of the Minimum
 Performance, Standards Certificate, the
 Civil Contractor may at its options: 7.1 Operation and Completion
 7.1.1 The Civil Contractor guarantees that it shall
 achieve each Milestone by the Milestone
 Date specified therefor and shall achieve
 successful completion of the Performance
 Guarantee Test for each Unit and the Power
 Station by the Guaranteed Date of
 Completion. 7.1.2 [NOT USED]
 7.1.3 No Milestone Date or Guaranteed Date of
 Completion shall be extended for any reason
 except as provided in Section 7 .3. 7.3 Delay and Extension of Time
 7.3.1 If the achievement of any Milestone will be,
 or has been, delayed beyond the Milestone
 Date specified therefor or the successful
 completion of the Performance Guarantee
 Test for any Unit or the Power Station will
 be, or has been delayed, beyond the
 Guaranteed Date of Completion by reason
 of: (iii)in respect of the Works or this
 Agreement, any breach by the Owner
 and any failure to prevent a breach of
 this Agreement by the Owner or any
 person engaged by the Owner
 (including any contractor engaged by
 the Owner on the Site in connection
 with the Transmission Lines and or coal
 transportation system from the mine
 but excluding the Civil Contractor. any
 Subcontractor and the Other
 Contractors), unless such breach of this Signature Not Verified Agreement or failure results from any Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 106 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 act. omission or breach of this
 Agreement by the Civil Contractor or
 any Subcontractor: then subject to the satisfaction of
 the conditions set out in Section
 7 .3.2. the Civil Contractor shall be
 entitled to such extension to the
 relevant Milestone Date and/or
 Guaranteed Date of Completion as
 shall be fair and reasonable taking Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 109 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 into account all the circumstances
 of such delay. 7.3.2 Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement,
 within seventy-two (72) hours (or such other
 period as may be agreed by the Owner) of
 learning of any cause of delay or disruption to
 the progress of the Works, the Civil
 Contractor shall submit a notice providing
 full details relevant to such cause, except to
 the extent the Civil Contractor cannot submit
 all relevant details within such period because
 the cause of delay or disruption continued for
 a period exceeding seven (7) days, the Civil
 Contractor shall submit interim details of
 intervals of not more than seven (7) days
 (from the first day of such delay or
 disruption) and full and final supporting
 details together with full supporting
 documentation in support of its application
 within fourteen (14) days of the date of
 cessation of such delay or disruption.
 Further in all cases where events described in
 Section 7.3.1 have occurred, the Civil
 Contractor shall advise the Owner of: 7.3.3 The Civil Contractor shall not be entitled to
 any extension of time: 7.4.3 [NOT USED]
 7.4.4 Liquidated damages arising under this Section
 7 .4 shall, subject to Section 4 .8, be paid by the
 Civil Contractor fortnightly in arrears by wire
 transfer or deposit of immediately available
 funds to such account as the Owner may
 direct, with the first such payment to be made
 no later than fourteen (14) days from the date
 of raising invoice(s) in respect of the same by
 the Owner and the last such payment to occur
 on the earlier of successful completion of the
 Performance Guarantee Test of the Power
 Station or termination of this Agreement by
 the Owner. 7.4.5 The damages recoverable pursuant to this Section 7 .4 shall, subject to Sections 16 .2 and
 6.6, be the Owner's sole remedy în relation to
 such delay. 7.4.6 The aggregate maximum liability of the Civil
 Contractor for Delay Liquidated Damages
 shall be equal to ten percent (10%) of the
 Contract Price. 10.7 Further Tests Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 114 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 10.7.1If the making good under this Article 10 when
 complete, might affect the performance of any
 part of the Power Station, the Owner may
 reasonably require that any of the tests which
 are to be performed under this Agreement be
 repeated; provided that if the Civil Contractor
 provides evidence satisfactory to the Owner
 that any such remedying of defects shall not
 affect the previous test results, the owner may
 direct that such tests would not require to be
 repeated. 10.7.2The request shall be made by notice within
 thirty (30) days after completion of such
 making good and the relevant tests shall be
 repeated in accordance with Article 6. 10.7.3In the event of any failure to pass such tests,
 the provisions of Sections 6 .1.10, 6.1.12, 6.6
 and Articles 8 and 16 shall apply." (underlining is ours) 99. The Respondent was contractually required to conduct three

 tests on each Unit in the following order; (i) RRT; (ii) UCT; and (iii) PGT. Milestone payments under the Agreements were

 linked to the "successful completion" of the RRT and PGT. 5%

 of the contract price was payable on the successful completion

 of the RRT and another 5% was payable on the successful

 completion of the PGT. The successful completion of the PGT

 was based on the achievement of certain parameters as

 provided for in the Agreements and Technical Specifications.

 Despite the Tribunal having rendered a categorical finding that

 the UCT for Unit -I was not successfully completed, had gone Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 115 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 on to hold that the PGT for Unit -1 was successfully completed

 and thus the Respondent was entitled to the milestone

 payment payable towards PGT of Unit -1 in derogation of the

 contractual provisions which stipulate the manner in which the

 testing has to be done. 100. On the contrary, the Tribunal has held that the Appellant had

 acted in breach of the contractual obligations by refusing to

 recognise that the RRT had been successfully passed for Units I

 and 2 and by refusing to permit the UCT and PGT to be

 conducted, it held that the Respondent was entitled to damages

 for breach of the contract as it was prevented by the Appellant

 from performing these Tests and earning 5% of the Contract

 Price for the PGT of Units 2 and 3. These findings are again in

 the teeth of the contractual provisions that the tests must be

 carried out in a certain order and manner failing which the

 question of moving on to the subsequent test would not arise.

 The relevant passages dealing with the same are as hereunder; 101. In holding so, the Tribunal has awarded to the present

 Respondent sums to the tune of Rs. 255 Crores (approx.). It is

 opportune at this stage to take note of Section 6 .1.5.1 of

 Amended CWEETC Agreement, which mandates that the RRT

 is required to be successfully completed before the

 commencement of the UCT. Further, as per Section 6 .1.7.1(a), Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 117 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 both RRT and UCT are required to be successfully completed

 before the conduct of the PGT. Thus, it is evident that

 successful completion of both RRT and UCT is a precondition

 to the successful completion of the PGT. A failure to

 successfully complete the RRT and UCT would mean that the

 preconditions to perform the PGT had, in fact, not been

 achieved and thus the question of conducting the same would

 not arise. 102. It was the Appellant's case that UCT for Unit 1 had failed, for

 the reason amongst others, that the attemperator flow rate had

 exceeded the design value i.e. there being a defect in the design

 of the Boiler. This system and the Boiler design was common to

 all the Units. In fact, the Appellant had made a counter claim

 for the cost of rectification of this defect in all 3 units, (which

 was considered in Issue no. 16 of the Arbitral Award) which

 would have required a substantial change in the design of the

 boiler. 103. The relevant paragraphs from the Arbitral Award dealing with

 the issue state; 104. The Tribunal, curiously, has returned a finding that there was

 defect in the design of the boiler and it was in breach of the

 EPC Technical Specifications. The Tribunal also held that the

 manufacturers of the boiler itself had stated that the same

 defect was prevalent in boilers of all the 3 units. 105. The Tribunal has also rendered a finding that the attemperator

 was defective and that it was the Respondent's responsibility

 under, inter alia, Sections 6 .1.4.3, 6.1.4.6 (iii) and 6.1.10.1 of the

 Amended CWEETC Agreement to repair and rectify it, at its

 own risk and cost, and further, under Section 6 .1.4.1, to have all

 systems functioning before undertaking or re-taking the tests. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 119 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 106. The Respondent was, thus, contractually constrained to

 demand a re-test unless it first rectified the defect of the

 attemperation flow rate and completed all systems which were

 required for the smooth operation of the plant as required

 under Section 6 .1.4.1. Therefore, the question of the Appellant

 preventing the Respondent from carrying out the re-test of the

 UCT, by not allowing a UCT unless a rectification was done

 and all systems were operational as required by the Contract

 for performing the Acceptance Tests, did not arise. Unless, the

 UCT was successful, the question of preventing the PGT does

 not arise. 107. In view of the above, having held that the UCT for Unit -- 1

 was unsuccessful the Tribunal could not have proceeded to

 hold the PGT to be successful as held in the following

 paragraphs: 108. Similarly, with respect to the Units -- 2 and 3 also the problem

 of, inter alia, the attemperator flow rate was also existing and

 thus there could be no question of prevention of the test, as

 they were bound to fail. Further, the Appellant had

 categorically informed the Respondent vide its letter dated

 28.11.2014, in consonance with inter alia, the provisions of Section 6 .1.4.1 of the amended CWEETC Agreement, that there

 were several systems such as the fire fighting system, the

 condenser tube cleaning system, CEMS, the ash disposal

 system, coal waste water treatment, all of which were still

 required to be made operational so as to be eligible to

 undertake the Acceptance Tests. 109. In view of the above, the Tribunal's repeated findings, that

 requiring all works in all Units and-the BOP to be completed

 before UCT and POT is in stark contrast to the provisions of the

 Amended CWEETC Agreement and in contradiction to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 121 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 express terms of the Agreements. The relevant paragraphs of

 the arbitral award are reproduced herein: 110. The Tribunal by holding so has modified the express terms of

 the Agreements and overshot its jurisdiction. The Tribunal has,

 in fact, ignored its own finding: 111. Thus, once it was held that the UCT was not successful, as a

 corollary thereto, it could never be said that the PGT was

 successful. The Tribunal in holding in favour of the

 Respondent failed to consider that the Milestone payment of

 5% is payable on not merely conducting the PGT but on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 122 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 'successful completion' of the same. Consequentially, once the

 Tribunal had rendered a finding that the Respondent had

 failed to achieve the parameter for the attemperation flow rate,

 any number of attempts at the UCT / PGT would naturally

 have been unsuccessful. 112. A bare perusal of the RRT Test Report (provided to us at Annex- 94, Pg.7328) and the Post RRT Joint Protocol (provided to us at

 Ann-95, Pg.7428) shows that there were a number of critical

 defects observed during the reliability runs of both Unit 1 and

 Unit 2. One of them being the fact that the Ash Handling

 System was not functioning properly as the ash conveying

 system was being run with 5 air compressors (for Unit 1) and 4

 air compressors (for Unit 2) instead of the design requirement

 of 3 compressors( Issue No. 19). Moreover, when the Tribunal

 held that the ash handling system was fundamentally under

 designed and could not cope with the amount of ash being

 produced, even if the coal was within the range of coal and still

 proceeded to award a sum of Rs.40 Crores (approx.) as

 damages for the same. The relevant paragraphs of the Arbitral

 Award are reproduced hereinbelow: Findings
 ....1093. The Tribunal has carefully considered this
 evidence in light of all the evidence put forward by
 the parties. The Tribunal finds that with the
 exception of the "over-fire air" and other low cost
 rectification works which have been recommended by
 Mr Aspinall and which the Tribunal finds are
 necessary, whether any other remedial works are
 necessary has not been established. The over-fire
 works and other low cost measures will probably
 mitigate the problem. 1094. The Tribunal finds that the Claimant's design
 was in breach of the EPC Technical Specifications as
 a result of the failure to achieve the stable operation
 attemperation flow rate of below 25 TPH at 100%
 BMCR. 1281. The Tribunal assesses the rectification costs
 limited to INR 395,300,000 on the basis that the
 vacuum system is not to be included as it would
 otherwise be a claim for betterment of the contracted
 system. (44) Defect 44 - Failure of Turbine Driven Boiler
 Feed Pump (TDBFP) rotor cartridge (Part 1, Tab 3,
 Item 46)
 1725. In or around July 2016, the rotor cartridge of
 the Turbine Driven Boiler Feed Pump 3tiA seized.
 As a result the feed water flow could not be
 established and the rotor cartridge was unable to
 achieve the necessary process parameters for the
 feedwater flow. Respondent's position
 1726. This is a Latent Defect that arose before the
 expiry of the Latent Defects Period on 1 June 2016." (underlining is ours) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 124 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 113. The Tribunal having awarded damages for the defective ash

 handling system (Issue no.19), HFO system (Issue no.18), as

 well as the High Pressure Feed Water Heaters (Issue No. 17).,

 which were also, mentioned as defects in the post RRT

 protocol, the Tribunal could not have possibly found that the

 Appellant had agreed that the RRT was successfully

 completed. The same is counter intuitive, contrary to the

 records and grossly arbitrary. It is thus clear that Issue

 Nos.9,10, 7,16,17,18 and 19 are intrinsically tied up with and

 directly related to the inherent flaws in the testing processes i.e.

 UCT, RRT and PGT. D. WHETHER THE LD. SINGLE JUDGE WAS CORRECT IN
 DISMISSING THE SECTION 34 PETITION AT THE STAGE
 OF ADMISSION WITHOUT CONSIDERING ALL THE
 ARGUMENTS MADE BY THE PARTIES? 114. The Learned Senior Counsel for the Respondent very zealously

 put forward his submissions pertaining to this issue. The

 Appellant claims that the Learned Single Judge ought not to

 have dismissed the petition under Section 34 at the stage of

 admissions without considering all the arguments made by

 them. 115. Per contra, the Respondent's contended that under Section 34 of

 the A & C Act, a Court exercises limited jurisdiction and any

 challenge to an award must meet the minimal thresholds set

 out in the said Section for it to be admitted. The hearing, on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 125 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 admission and stay, before the Learned Single Judge has

 apparently gone on for 9 days followed by the parties

 submitting post hearing submissions as well. Therefore, it is the

 Respondent's earnest contention that the Single Judge did not

 err in dismissing the petition under Section 34 at the stage of

 admission and has done so after applying his mind to the

 merits of the Appellant's submissions. 116. It is pertinent to mention herein that the Learned Single Judge

 had considered only three broad issues at the stage of

 admission and hearing of the interim stay application before

 passing his final judgment (impugned herein). Firstly, whether

 the Tribunal has made out a case for the Respondent which

 was not pleaded by it; secondly, if the Tribunal has modified

 the contract between the parties by holding that the parties had

 waived the requirement to issue contractual notices and

 thirdly, whether this waiver was applied equally to both

 parties. 117. However, the Learned Single Judge was of the final opinion in

 the following words: 118. The Learned Single Judge while discussing the main issue of

 Notice - Waiver/Estoppel has held as follows: (underlining is ours) 119. We are unable to accept that, despite noting that the finding

 regarding waiver of notice is based on no evidence and

 incorrect, the Single Judge has been reluctant to interfere with

 the Arbitral Award while being conscious and aware of the fact

 that this one issue was by itself a bedrock for a major portion of

 the parties claims and disputes and, therefore, went to the root

 of the matter. Moreover, the Learned Single Judge did not even

 delve into the issue of prolongation costs caused by the

 suspension and cancellation of Unit 4 despite the same being

 brought to its notice. 120. The statutory right to appeal against an arbitral award as

 provided for in Section 34 of the A&C Act is a statutory appeal.

 There are usually only three outcomes that come out of these

 appeals, which are: Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR 121. The first and second outcomes being simple, we are faced here

 with a curious mixture of the first and third outcome. When a

 petition under Section 34 is dismissed at a preliminary stage,

 i.e. at the stage of admission, the grounds are usually limited to

 delay or jurisdiction. In the present case, the Single Judge has

 partially considered the case on merits but dismissed the

 matter at a preliminary stage. The same is an unusual

 departure from the practice and norm of hearing a petition

 under Section 34 . In any case, whether or not the Learned

 Single Judge erred in his approach, is not germane to the issues

 at hand as the parties vide order dated 15.5.2023 of the Supreme

 Court of India in SLP(C) No.12194 of 2023 have been urged to

 place all their contentions before this Court in the present

 appeal Section 37 of the A&C Act and therefore, this Court is

 presently in any case, making an earnest endeavour to discuss

 and deliberate upon all such contentions. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 129 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 i. WHETHER THE LD. SINGLE JUDGE WAS
 CORRECT IN DISMISSING THE APPELLANT'S
 CONTENTIONS PERTAINING TO BIAS BEING
 SHOWCASED BY THE ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL. 122. While the Learned Single Judge has curiously not considered

 all the contentions of the Appellant, it has rendered a finding

 on whether the Appellant could raise the issue of bias being

 showcased by the Arbitral Tribunal. The Appellant has

 premised this contention as an extension of the equality of

 treatment specified under Section 18 of the A&C Act. The

 Appellant has pointed out a number of instances to show how

 the parties have been treated unequally during the course of

 arbitral proceedings. It has also taken us painstakingly through

 various portions of the award to show how certain principles of

 law have been applied unequally with respect to the parties

 therein. Although, such a contention at first glance seems to be

 attractive but a closer scrutiny would, in fact, points in another

 direction. The concept of "bias" and "unequality" as postulated

 under Section 18 of the A&C Act are separate and distinct

 concepts juristically. 123. The Arbitration Act is a complete code in itself and provides

 for a challenge being made on the ground of bias. Section 12(3) of the A&C Act which provides that: And Section 13 of the A&C Act further provides that: section (2) withdraws from his office or the other
 party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal
 shall decide on the challenge. (4) If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon
 by the parties or under the procedure under sub-
 section (2) is not successful, the arbitral tribunal
 shall continue the arbitral proceedings and make an
 arbitral award. (5) Where an arbitral award is made under sub-
 section (4), the party challenging the arbitrator may
 make an application for setting aside such an
 arbitral award in accordance with section 34 .
 (6) Where an arbitral award is set aside on an
 application made under sub-section (5), the Court
 may decide as to whether the arbitrator who is
 challenged is entitled to any fees." 124. Section 13 of the A&C Act requires that in the first instance, the

 challenge pertaining to the Arbitral Tribunal's independence or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 131 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 impartiality is to be made to the Arbitral Tribunal itself. If the

 said challenge is not successful, it can be made a ground for

 setting aside of the award under Section 34 of the A&C Act

 ( Section 13(5) of the A&C Act provides for the same). In fact,

 the said challenge can be raised at any stage of the arbitral

 proceeding when such a circumstance occurs subject to the

 limitation of 15 days provided under Section 13(2) of the A&C

 Act. 125. In the present case, the challenge is based solely on the

 conclusions and findings of the Tribunal in its Award. The

 Award is dated 7.9.2020. It was corrected on 17.11.2020. It was

 followed by a further Award on Interest and Costs dated

 24.6.2021, followed by corrections and a final award dated

 1.9.2021. The Appellant thus knew the grounds of its challenge

 on 7.9.2020 and was legally obliged to make its challenge on

 the grounds of bias within 15 days thereof. Instead, the

 Appellant participated in the corrections of Award exercise and

 participated in the further Award on Interests and Costs

 without any objection/protest. It made its bias challenge on

 15.2.2021 when it filed its petition under Section 34 of the A &

 C Act. The Appellant has not explained the delay or reasons for

 non-adherence to the procedure and time window prescribed

 under Section 13(2) of the A&C Act. 126. The Respondent has further brought to our notice the test for

 apparent bias laid down by the House of Lords in Porter v. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 132 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Magill28 which was endorsed by the Supreme Court in N.K.

 Bajpai v. Union of India29 . 127. Nonetheless, we are but in agreement with the Learned Single

 Judge that the allegation of 'bias' is a serious allegation against

 the Tribunal and the same has to be viewed with

 circumspection. The Appellant cannot raise the issue of 'bias' at

 a belated stage before this Court in a petition under Section 34 ,

 in gross contravention of the mechanism provided in the A&C

 Act. No objection with regards to 'bias' was raised by the

 Appellant under Section 12(3) and Section 13 of the A&C Act

 and thus, the same cannot be entertained now.

 E. IN LIGHT OF THE ABOVE WHETHER THE ORDERS OF
 THE LD. SINGLE JUDGE AND THE LD. ARBITRAL
 TRIBUNAL HAVE "SHOCKED THE CONSCIENCE OF
 THIS COURT", OR "ARE CONTRARY TO THE BASIC
 NOTIONS OF JUSTICE", OR "ARE IN EXPRESS
 VIOLATION OF SECTION 28(3) OF THE A&C ACT,
 WHICH NECESSITATES INTERFERENCE BY THIS COURT
 UNDER SECTION 37 OF THE A&C ACT? 128. At the outset, it is relevant to observe that the law as to the

 scope of interference under Sections 34 and 37 of the A&C Act

 is now well settled. It is no longer res integra that the scope of

 interference by the Courts in arbitration proceedings and

 arbitral awards is narrow, more so, in an International 28 (2002) 1 All ER 465 29 Signature Not Verified (2012) 4 SCC 653 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 133 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 Commercial Arbitration seated within or outside India,

 especially after the amendment to the A&C Act in 2015. The

 Courts should be slow and circumspect in interfering with any

 award which is passed by an arbitral tribunal which has been

 appointed pursuant to an agreement between the parties to the

 dispute. Section 34 of the A&C Act outlines within it, only

 certain finite instances when the Courts can interfere with an

 award passed by arbitral tribunals and set it aside. An arbitral

 award can be set aside under Section 34 of the A&C Act only

 on the grounds as set out under Section 34(2) or 34(2A) of the

 A&C Act. Further, interference under Section 37 of the A&C

 Act cannot travel beyond the prescriptions as set out under Section 34 of the A&C Act. 129. Section 34 of the A&C Act is quoted hereinbelow for easy

 reference: [Explanation 1.--For the avoidance of any doubt, it
 is clarified that an award is in conflict with the
 public policy of India, only if,-- (i) the making of the award was induced or
 affected by fraud or corruption or was in
 violation of section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental Signature Not Verified policy of Indian law; or Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 135 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 (iv) it is in conflict with the most basic
 notions of morality or justice. Explanation 2.--For the avoidance of doubt, the test
 as to whether there is a contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a
 review on the merits of the dispute.]
 ...." (Emphasis is ours) 130. In MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court has

 observed that as far as interference with an order made under Section 34 is concerned, it cannot be disputed that such

 interference under Section 37 cannot travel beyond the

 restrictions laid down under Section 34 . In other words, the

 court cannot undertake an independent assessment of the

 merits of the award, and must only ascertain that the exercise

 of power by the court under Section 34 has not exceeded the

 scope of the said provision. As far as Section 34 is concerned,

 the position is well-settled that the Court does not sit in appeal

 over the arbitral award and can interfere on merits only under

 limited grounds. It thus, needs no reiteration that interference

 under Section 37 of said Act does not entail a review of the

 merits of the dispute, and is limited to situations where the

 findings of the Arbitrator are arbitrary, capricious or perverse,

 or when the conscience of the Court is shocked, or when the

 illegality is not trivial but goes to the root of the matter. An

 arbitral award may not be tinkered with lightly, if the view Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 136 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 taken by the Arbitrator is a possible view based on facts. The

 relevant paragraphs of MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. (supra) are

 reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of convenience: Ltd. [McDermott International Inc. v. Burn
 Standard Co. Ltd. , (2006) 11 SCC 181] ) 14. As far as interference with an order made under Section 34 , as per Section 37 , is concerned, it cannot
 be disputed that such interference under Section 37 cannot travel beyond the restrictions laid down
 under Section 34 . In other words, the court cannot
 undertake an independent assessment of the merits
 of the award, and must only ascertain that the
 exercise of power by the court under Section 34 has
 not exceeded the scope of the provision. Thus, it is
 evident that in case an arbitral award has been Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 138 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 confirmed by the court under Section 34 and by the
 court in an appeal under Section 37 , this Court
 must be extremely cautious and slow to disturb such
 concurrent findings." Reference may also be made to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends

 Coal Carbonisation30 ; National Highway Authority of India v.

 Progressive-MVR (JV )31; and McDermott International Inc. v.

 Burn Standard Co. Ltd.32in this regard. 131. Furthermore, in the oft quoted and relied upon case of Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI (supra) the

 Supreme Court has held that: In short, Western Geco [ONGC v. Western Geco
 International Ltd., (2014) 9 SCC 263 : (2014) 5
 SCC (Civ) 12], as explained in paras 28 and 29 of Associate Builders [Associate Builders v. DDA ,
 (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204], would
 no longer obtain, as under the guise of interfering 30 (2006) 4 SCC 445 31 (2018) 14 SCC 688 32 Signature Not Verified (2006) 11 SCC 181 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 139 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 with an award on the ground that the arbitrator has
 not adopted a judicial approach, the Court's
 intervention would be on the merits of the award,
 which cannot be permitted post amendment. However, insofar as principles of natural justice are
 concerned, as contained in Sections 18 and 34(2)(a)(iii) of the 1996 Act, these continue to be
 grounds of challenge of an award, as is contained in
 para 30 of Associate Builders [Associate Builders v.
 DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 SCC (Civ) 204]. 35. It is important to notice that the ground for
 interference insofar as it concerns "interest of India" 132. Therefore, keeping in mind the position of law as it stands

 today, the grounds available to a party to challenge an arbitral

 award are broadly: In construing the expression "public policy" in
 the context of a foreign award, the Court held that
 an award contrary to (i) The fundamental policy of Indian law, (ii) The interest of India, (iii) Justice or morality,
 would be set aside on the ground that it would be
 contrary to the public policy of India. It went on
 further to hold that a contravention of the provisions
 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act would be
 contrary to the public policy of India in that the
 statute is enacted for the national economic interest
 to ensure that the nation does not lose foreign
 exchange which is essential for the economic
 survival of the nation (see SCC p. 685, para 75).
 Equally, disregarding orders passed by the superior
 courts in India could also be a contravention of the
 fundamental policy of Indian law, but the recovery
 of compound interest on interest, being contrary to
 statute only, would not contravene any fundamental
 policy of Indian law (see SCC pp. 689 & 693, paras Signature Not Verified 85 & 95). Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 141 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 ....27. Coming to each of the heads contained in Saw
 Pipes [(2003) 5 SCC 705 : AIR 2003 SC 2629]
 judgment, we will first deal with the head
 "fundamental policy of Indian law". It has already
 been seen from Renusagar [Renusagar Power Co.
 Ltd. v. General Electric Co. , 1994 Supp (1) SCC
 644] judgment that violation of the Foreign
 Exchange Act and disregarding orders of superior
 courts in India would be regarded as being contrary
 to the fundamental policy of Indian law. To this it
 could be added that the binding effect of the
 judgment of a superior court being disregarded
 would be equally violative of the fundamental policy
 of Indian law. ii. Contravention of the principles of natural justice (as laid down in Para 30 of Associate Builders): A quick

 reference may be made to the relevant paragraphs as

 reproduced hereinbelow: Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 142 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 *** (iii) the party making the application was not
 given proper notice of the appointment of an
 arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or
 was otherwise unable to present his case;" 37. The other ground is of "morality". Just as the
 expression "public policy" also occurs in Section 23 of the Contract Act, 1872 so does the expression
 "morality". Two illustrations to the said section are
 interesting for they explain to us the scope of the
 expression "morality": Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 143 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 (k) A agrees to let her daughter to hire to B for
 concubinage. The agreement is void, because it is
 immoral, though the letting may not be
 punishable under the Penal Code, 1860." 38. In GherulalParakh v. MahadeodasMaiya [1959
 Supp (2) SCR 406 : AIR 1959 SC 781] , this Court
 explained the concept of "morality" thus: (SCR pp.
 445-46 : AIR pp. 797-98)
 "Re. Point 3 -- Immorality: The argument
 under this head is rather broadly stated by the
 learned counsel for the appellant. The learned
 counsel attempts to draw an analogy from the
 Hindu law relating to the doctrine of pious
 obligation of sons to discharge their father's
 debts and contends that what the Hindu law
 considers to be immoral in that context may
 appropriately be applied to a case under Section 23 of the Contract Act. Neither any
 authority is cited nor any legal basis is
 suggested for importing the doctrine of Hindu
 law into the domain of contracts. Section 23 of
 the Contract Act is inspired by the common
 law of England and it would be more useful to
 refer to the English law than to the Hindu law
 texts dealing with a different matter. Anson in
 his Law of Contracts states at p. 222 thus: 39. This Court has confined morality to sexual
 morality so far as Section 23 of the Contract
 Act, 1872 is concerned, which in the context
 of an arbitral award would mean the
 enforcement of an award say for specific Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 146 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 performance of a contract involving
 prostitution. "Morality" would, if it is to go
 beyond sexual morality necessarily cover such
 agreements as are not illegal but would not be
 enforced given the prevailing mores of the day.
 However, interference on this ground would
 also be only if something shocks the court's
 conscience." 133. Again in Madhya Pradesh Power Generation Company Ltd. v. Ansaldo EnergiaSpA,34 it is held as under: 134. If we may, for a moment, focus on the term used in

 Explanation 2 of Section 34 (2)(b) then Merriam Webster

 Dictionary defines "review" simply as "to look at a thing

 again". It is trite in law that the Court under Section 34 or Section 37 of the A&C Act does not sit in appeal over the merits

 of the case. The Supreme Court in P.R. Shah Shares & Stock

 Broker (P) Ltd. v. B.H.H. Securities (P) Ltd.35 has held that a

 Court does not sit in appeal over the award of an Arbitrator by

 re-assessing or re-appreciating the evidence. An award can be

 challenged only on the grounds mentioned in Section 34(2) of 35 Signature Not Verified (2012) 1 SCC 594 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 148 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 the Act and in absence of any such ground, it is not possible to

 re-examine the facts to find out whether a different decision

 can be arrived at. This view was reiterated by the Apex Court

 in Swan Gold Mining Ltd. v. Hindustan Copper Ltd.36 .

 Therefore, the standard of "review" of an Arbitral Award

 under Section 34 and Section 37 of the A&C Act is quite

 different as compared to the onerous task of adjudicating the

 dispute afresh. In the latter, the Arbitrator is tasked with a

 complete and exhaustive perusal of the evidence produced on

 record. However, at the stage of adjudicating a challenge to the

 award, this Court cannot look at the merits of the dispute

 "again". Having been said, the Court while endeavouring to

 test if an award does not pass the muster of being "in conflict

 with the fundamental policy of Indian law" or being "in conflict

 with the most basic notions of justice" will necessarily have to

 undertake an assessment of the manner of the decision making

 of the award. Although the end-result or the interpretation of a

 contractual provision or a fact finding by the Arbitrator cannot

 be tinkered with the reasoning behind it must necessarily pass

 muster. The limitations placed on this Court's powers under

 Section 34 or 37 of the A&C Act cannot be countenanced to

 mean that a court seized with an application under Section 34

 or Section 37 of the A&C Act is denuded from reviewing the 36 Signature Not Verified (2015) 5 SCC 739 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 149 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 "reasonableness/unreasonableness" of decision making of

 either the Tribunal or the Court below, as the case may be. 135. In conducting this exercise, the Court must ensure that their

 actions are within the contours of the provisions, no matter

 howsoever constricted, they might have become over the years

 by way of judicial pronouncements or legislative interventions.

 Today, the test is that, to warrant interference with arbitral

 award the same must "shock the conscience of the court",

 interestingly a phrase which doesn't find mention in the A&C

 Act itself but it is an innovation made by the courts themselves. 136. It is true that the jurisdiction of this Court while considering

 the validity of an award is limited, as has also been stated by

 this Court in Ispat Engg. & Foundry Works37. However, the

 Supreme Court in Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. v. Annapurna

 Construction38 , where the Arbitrator has not taken into

 consideration and ignored the relevant clauses of the contract,

 goes on to hold that: 137. We are also mindful of the fact that the present legal position,

 as it stands today, states that this Court does not have the

 power to modify an award. In this regard, reference may be

 made to the judgment of the Supreme Court in NHAI v. M.

 Hakeem39, wherein the Apex Court has held: ...42. It can therefore be said that this question has
 now been settled finally by at least 3 decisions
 [ McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard
 Co. Ltd. , (2006) 11 SCC 181] , [KinnariMullick v.
 Ghanshyam Das Damani, (2018) 11 SCC 328 : ...48. Quite obviously if one were to include the
 power to modify an award in Section 34 , one would
 be crossing the LakshmanRekha and doing what,
 according to the justice of a case, ought to be done.
 In interpreting a statutory provision, a Judge must
 put himself in the shoes of Parliament and then ask Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 152 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 whether Parliament intended this result. Parliament
 very clearly intended that no power of modification
 of an award exists in Section 34 of the Arbitration
 Act, 1996. It is only for Parliament to amend the
 aforesaid provision in the light of the experience of
 the courts in the working of the Arbitration Act,
 1996 , and bring it in line with other legislations
 world over." 138. The issue of Notice - Waiver / Estoppel goes to the root of the

 matter and is all pervasive and non-severable. It affects various

 claims such as those pertaining to Grid Synchronization (Issue

 no.6) (Para 505 of the Award), Fuel Oil (Issue no.7) Para 549 of

 the Award), Coal (Issue no.8) Para 610 of the Award), UCT-

 PGT (Issue no. 10) (Para 752 of the Award) and R-173 Defects

 (Issue No. 20). The findings in these issues has a consequential

 impact on the amount of prolongation costs awarded to the

 Respondent under Issue no. 11 and the issue of delay in

 liquidated damages recoverable by the Appellant from the

 Respondent, which has been considered by the Tribunal in

 Issue no. 15 of the Award. Thus, in view of the law settled by

 the Supreme Court in the case of NHAI v. M. Hakeem (supra),

 if the findings on this issue or any of the aforementioned issues

 are set aside, then the entire Award will have to be set aside. 139. In PSA Sical Terminals (supra), Army Welfare Housing

 Organisation v. Sumangal Services (P) Ltd. ( supra),

 Satyanarayana Construction Co. v. Union of India (supra) and

 Indian Oil Corporation Limited v. Shree Ganesh Petroleum Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 153 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14 Rajgurunagar (supra), the common thread that emerges from

 the aforesaid decisions of the Supreme Court is that it has

 broadly identified two categories of cases which can be

 challenged under the mechanism provided under the A&C Act.

 They can be said to be cases where the Arbitrator exercises his

 power within jurisdiction or in excess thereof. An Arbitrator is

 perfectly entitled to "interpret" the terms of the contract and

 the same would be exclusively within its domain and he would

 be acting "within" his jurisdiction. However, when the

 Arbitrator based on whatever materials proceeds to "rewrite

 the terms of the contract", the same would be acting in excess

 of jurisdiction. In all the above cases, the Supreme Court has

 consistently held that rewriting of contract would come under

 the latter category, albeit an extremely narrow one, i.e. one

 which "shocks the conscience of the Court". The Apex Court

 has also consistently upheld the setting aside of all such

 instances which were brought before it especially where the

 arbitrator has acted in excess of jurisdiction and rewritten the

 terms of the contract. 140. In the present case, the Tribunal's interpretation of the

 contractual provisions vis-a-vis Respondent's entitlement of

 delay related damages for prolongation and disruption costs in

 contravention of the express terms of the contract, and its

 ascertaining that the agreements excluded the common law

 right of termination, are in gross violation of the terms of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 154 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 contract entered into by the parties themselves. The Arbitral

 Tribunal has not only ignored the express terms of the contract

 to arrive at its findings; but it has also rewritten certain clauses

 thereby grossly exceeding the scope of its jurisdiction. The

 same does shock the conscience of this Court. 141. The ground of contravention of the fundamental policy of

 Indian Law(Ground 'i' hereinabove) entails that any arbitral

 award which flies in the face of what is fundamental to Indian

 law or any principle arising thereof, would be a valid ground

 for setting aside the arbitral award. As discussed hereinabove,

 it has been categorically laid down that disregarding orders

 passed by the superior courts in India would also be a

 contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law. That

 being the case, as has been dealt with hereinabove, principles laid down in a catena of judgments of the Apex Court have

 been disregarded by the Tribunal while dealing with various

 issues as were framed by it. Therefore, this Court is constrained

 by the imprimatur of the Supreme Court to intervene, given the

 factual and legal backdrop. 142. Similarly, the ground of contravention of the principles of

 natural justice (Ground 'ii' hereinabove) postulates the

 principle that all parties must be treated equally and as a

 corollary thereof, any principle applied to one party must be

 extended equally to the other party as well. If there is no

 equality in the treatment of the parties, the arbitral award Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 155 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 becomes liable to be set aside. The Tribunal having come to a

 conclusion that the parties had mutually decided to "waive"

 the requirement of issuance of contractual notices could not

 have disallowed the counterclaims of the Appellant on the

 ground that no such notices had been given. This is nothing but

 violative of the equality principle enshrined under Section 18 of

 the A&C Act. 143. Lastly, the ground of contravention of the most basic notions of

 justice (Ground 'iii' hereinabove) implies that an award can be

 said to be against justice, when it shocks the conscience of the

 court and any such award which shocks the conscience of the

 court is liable to be set aside. Although, what will "shock the

 conscience of the court" will depend on the facts and

 circumstances of each case. What seems to be the common

 thread as discussed hereinabove is that it is impermissible for

 the Tribunal to rewrite the terms of the contract. In the present

 case, the Tribunal would have been perfectly justified and

 within jurisdiction to interpret the terms of the contract and

 could not have been faulted with. However, the Tribunal

 disregarding the fact that the parties were not ad idem on the

 issue of waiver of contractual notices and has proceeded to

 come to a conclusion that there, in fact, has been "waiver" of

 the same. In doing so, the Tribunal has acted in derogation of

 the express terms of the two clauses in particular, i.e. the "no Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 156 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 oral modification clause" and the "no waiver clause". In this

 manner, the Tribunal has committed a grave error of stepping

 into the shoes of the parties of the contract and it has rewritten

 the terms which strike at the root of the matter and it alters the

 very nature of the contract and the manner in which it was

 envisioned to be performed. We are, thus, of the considered

 opinion, albeit very cautiously, that the present case "shocks

 the conscience" of this Court and necessitates interference. 144. Therefore, keeping in mind the discussion above, the findings

 of the Tribunal pertaining to the issue of Notice-

 Waiver/Estoppel completely "shocks the conscience of this

 court" as also the Tribunal's findings pertaining to delay

 related damages for prolongation or disruption costs and the

 grant of 5% of contractual price upon completion of tests, and

 the same is therefore liable to be set aside. As explained above,

 the issue of Notice-Waiver/Estoppel is intertwined with

 various others and therefore, in light of the Supreme Court's

 judgment in NHAI v. M. Hakeem (supra) and more recently

 reiterated in Larsen Air Conditioning &Refrigration Company

 v. Union of India and Ors.40 , the only recourse available to this

 Court is to set aside the entire Arbitral Award in the interest of

 justice. 40 Signature Not Verified 2023 SCC OnLine SC 982 Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 157 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 V. CONCLUSION: 145. The Arbitrator is a Judge chosen by the parties and his decision

 is final as long as it is founded in fairness and justice. 146. When it comes to the fundamental public policy of India,

 argument based upon "most basic notions of justice", it is clear

 that this ground as laid down by the Supreme Court in

 SsangyongEngg. & Construction (supra); Associate Builders v.

 DDA (supra) and Madhya Pradesh Power Generation

 Company Ltd. v. AnsaldoEnergiaSpA (supra) can be attracted

 only in very exceptional circumstances when the conscience of

 the Court is shocked by infractions of the arbitrator or arbitral

 tribunal. This being the case, it is clear that in the present case,

 the arbitral tribunal has created a new contract for the parties

 by not only re-writing large portions of the same but also

 disregarding certain explicit embargos therein, which goes

 against the basic notions of justice and shocks the conscience of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 158 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14
 this Court. Clearly, such a course of conduct would be contrary

 to fundamental principles of justice as followed in this country.

 However, we repeat that this ground is available only in very

 exceptional circumstances, such as the facts and circumstances

 of the present case. 147. In light of the discussion above, keeping the settled principles

 of law in mind and for the reasons given above, this Court is of

 the considered view that the present Arbitration Appeal is

 allowed. Consequently, the judgment dated 17.06.2022 passed

 by the learned Single Judge of this Court is set aside.

 Accordingly, the arbitral award dated 07.09.2020 as corrected

 thereafter, passed by the Tribunal consisting Prof. Lawrence

 Boo BBM, Dr. Michael Pryles PBM, and Mr. Malcolm Homes

 QC is, accordingly, set aside in light of the discussion

 hereinabove. 148. ARBA (ICA) No.1 of 2023 is disposed of on the

 abovementioned terms. No order as to costs. Ordered

 accordingly. (S. Talapatra) (Dr. S.K. Panigrahi)
 Chief Justice Judge

 Orissa High Court, Cuttack,
 Dated the 27th September, 2023/ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: BHABAGRAHI JHANKAR Designation: Assistant Registrar-cum-Senior Secretary 159 Reason: Authentication
Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
Date: 03-Oct-2023 13:34:14