(n) verify correctness of Importer Exporter Code (IEC) number, Goods
 and Services Tax Identification Number (GSTIN),identity of his client and
 functioning of his client at the declared address by using reliable,
 independent, authentic documents, data or information; 2 CBLR 3 DGARM 4 CBIC 5 SCN 3 4. Since this case requires deciding the scope of Regulation

10(n) and the extent of responsibility of the Customs Broker under

it, we proceed to examine this issue before dealing with the

specifics of this case. According to the learned consultant for the

appellants, this responsibility is fulfilled if the Customs broker

obtains at least two KYC documents and it is not the responsibility

of the Customs Broker to physically inspect the premises of each of

its clients to ensure that it is operating from that address. He

submits that it is far too onerous for the Customs Broker to fulfil

such a responsibility. He relies on the following decisions: 5. According to the learned authorised representative for the

Revenue, the Customs Broker is an agent of the Custom House and

has to ensure that the interests of the importer/exporter as well as

the Revenue are protected. It is not sufficient for the Customs

broker to merely obtain two KYC documents. The Regulation also

requires the Customs Broker to verify identity of his client and

functioning of his client at the declared address. If the Customs

Broker does not fulfil this responsibility, it will invite action under

the CBLR, 2018. He relies on the following decisions: 6. We have considered the submissions on both sides.

Regulation 10(n) requires the Customs Broker to verify correctness

of Importer Exporter Code (IEC) number, Goods and Services Tax

Identification Number (GSTIN),identity of his client and functioning

of his client at the declared address by using reliable, independent,

authentic documents, data or information. This obligation can be

broken down as follows: 7. Of the above, (a) and (b) require verification of the

documents which are issued by the Government departments. The

IEC number is issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade 12

and the GSTIN is issued by the GST officers under the CBIC under

Government of India or officers under the Governments of State or

Union territory. The question which arises is whether the Customs

broker is required to satisfy itself that these documents or their

copies given by the client were, indeed issued by the concerned

government officers OR is the Customs Broker also required to

ensure that the officers have correctly issued these documents. In 10 2022(5) TMI 1050- CESTAT Mumbai 11 2009(2)TMI 57-Delhi High Court 12 DGFT 5 our considered view, Regulation 10(n) of CBLR cannot be read to

mean the latter as it would imply treating the Customs Broker as

one who is competent and responsible to oversee and ensure the

correctness of the actions by the Government officers. It would also

mean that actions by the Customs Broker under the CBLR prevail

over the actions by officers under the Foreign Trade (Development

and Regulation) Act, 1992 (under which the IEC is issued by DGFT)

and the Central Goods and Services Tax Act (or state GST Act)

(under which the GSTIN is issued by the GST officers). In our view

this is not the correct construction of this legal provision. Therefore,

verification of certificates part of the obligation under Regulation

10(n) on the Customs Broker is fully satisfied as long as it satisfies

itself that the IEC and the GSTIN were, indeed issued by the

concerned officers. This can be done through online verification,

comparing with the original documents, etc. and does not require

an investigation into the documents by the Customs Broker. The

presumption is that a certificate or registration issued by an officer

or purported to have been issued by an officer was correctly issued. Section 79 of the Evidence Act, 1872 requires even Courts to

presume that every certificate which is purported to be issued by

the Government officer to be genuine. It reads as follows: Provided that such document is substantially in the form and
 purports to be executed in the manner directed by law in that
 behalf. The Court shall also presume that any officer by whom any
 such document purports to be signed or certified, held, when he
 signed it, the official character which he claims in such paper. 6 8. The onus on the Customs Broker cannot, therefore, extend to

verifying that the officers have issued the certificate or registration

correctly. It has been held by the High Court of Delhi in Kunal

Travels that ―the CHA is not an inspector to weigh the genuineness

of the transaction. It is a processing agent of documents with

respect of clearance of goods through customs house and in that

process only such authorized personnel of the CHA can enter the

customs house area........ It would be far too onerous to expect

the CHA to inquire into and verify the genuineness of the IE

code given to it by a client for each import/export

transaction. When such code is mentioned, there is a

presumption that an appropriate background check in this

regard i.e., KYC, etc. would have been done by the customs

authorities.....‖ (emphasis supplied).‖ Of course, if the Customs

Broker comes to know that its client had obtained these certificates

through fraud or misrepresentation, nothing prevents it from

bringing such details to the notice of Customs officers for their

consideration and action as they deem fit. However, the Customs

Broker cannot sit in judgment over the certificate or registration

issued by a Government officer so long as it is valid. In these

cases, there is no doubt or evidence that the IEC and the GSTIN

were issued by the officers. So, there is no violation as far as the

documents are concerned. 9. The third obligation under Regulation 10(n) requires the

Customs Broker to verify the identity of the client using reliable,

independent, authentic documents, data or information. In other 7 words, he should know who the client is and the client cannot be

some fictitious person. As per the Regulation, this identity can be

established by independent, reliable, authentic: 10. Any of the three methods can be employed by the Customs

Broker to verify the identity of its client. It is not necessary that it

has to only conduct a physical verification or launch an

investigation. So long as it can find some documents which are

independent, reliable and authentic to establish the identity of his

client, this obligation is fulfilled. If a document is issued by any

other person not interested in the relationship of the client and the

Customs Broker, it would be independent. But it should also be

reliable and authentic and not one issued by any Tom, Dick and

Harry. Documents such as PAN card issued by the Income tax,

driving licence issued by the RTO, Election voter card issued by the

Election Commission, the passport issued by the Passport Officer,

etc., certainly qualify as independent as none of these departments

have any interest in the relationship between the client and the

Customs Broker and these documents are presumed to be

authentic and reliable having been issued by the Government

officers. However, these are not the only documents the Customs

Broker could obtain; documents issued by any other officer of the

Government or even private parties (so long as they qualify as

independent, reliable and authentic) could meet this requirement.

While obtaining documents is probably the easiest way of fulfilling 8 this obligation, the Customs broker can also, as an alternative, fulfil

this obligation by obtaining data or information. 11. The fourth and the last obligation under Regulation 10(n) requires the Customs Broker to verify the functioning of the client

at the declared address using reliable, independent, authentic

documents, data or information. This responsibility, again, can be

fulfilled using documents or data or information so long as they are

reliable, independent and authentic. Nothing in this clause requires

the Customs Broker to physically go to the premises of the client to

ensure that they are functioning at the premises. By their nature,

Customs formations are located only in a few places while

exporters or importers could be from any part of the country and

they hire the services of the Customs Brokers. Besides the fact that

no such obligation is in Regulation 10(n) , it will be extremely

difficult, if not, totally impossible, for the Customs Broker to

physically visit the premises of each of its clients for verification.

For instance, if an importer from a small town in, say, Madhya

Pradesh imports goods through ICD Tughlakabad in Delhi, the

Customs Broker operating in Delhi cannot be expected to leave his

entire business and travel to that town to verify physically if the

importer, indeed, is functioning from that address. If Regulation

10(n) is interpreted to burden the Customs Broker with such a

responsibility, it will not only be far too onerous to the Customs

Broker but it will also make it impossible for anyone in the country

to import/export unless he/she can find a Customs Broker willing to

travel to his/her town for physical verification. This Regulation 9 cannot be read so as to cause such harassment to the Customs

Brokers and to the importers/exporters. This Regulation, in fact,

gives the option of verifying using documents, data or information.

If there are authentic, independent and reliable documents or data

or information to show that the client is functioning at the declared

address, this part of the obligation of the Customs Broker is

fulfilled. If there are documents issued by the Government officers

which show that the client is functioning at the address, it would be

reasonable for the Customs Broker to presume that the officer is

not wrong and that the client is indeed, functioning at that address.

In this case, we find that the GSTIN issued by the officers of CBIC

itself shows the address of the client and the authenticity of the

GSTIN is not in doubt. In fact, the entire verification report is based

on the GSTIN. Further, IECs issued by the DGFT also show the

address. There is nothing on record to show that either of these

documents were fake or forged. Therefore, they are authentic and

reliable and we have no reason to believe that the officers who

issued them were not independent and neither has the Customs

Broker any reason to believe that they were not independent. 12. We further note that the responsibility of the Customs Broker

under Regulation 10(n) does not include keeping a continuous

surveillance on the client to ensure that he continues to operate

from that address and has not changed his operations. Therefore,

once verification of the address is complete as discussed in the

above paragraphs, if the client moves to a new premises and does

not inform the authorities or does not get his documents amended,

such act or omission of the client cannot be held against the 10 Customs Broker. Of course, if the Customs Broker was aware that

the client has moved and continued to file documents with the

wrong address, it is a different matter. 13. In this appeal, the negative reports were issued by the

jurisdictional GST officers who, or whose predecessors or

colleagues, must have issued the GST registration. Thereafter, if it

is found that the exporter was not operating from that address at

all and the GST registration was wrongly issued, the responsibility

rests on the officers who issued the GST Registration and not on

the Customs Broker. This wisdom in hindsight of the officers that

the GSTIN was wrongly issued at that address cannot be held

against the Customs Broker. 14. The appellant relied on the GST Registration Certificates and

if relying on them is an offence, issuing them when the firms didn‗t

even exist must, logically be a much graver offence and the officers

who issued them must be more serious offenders. There is nothing

in the reports of the jurisdictional officers which were the Relied

Upon Documents in the SCN to indicate as to why and how the GST

registration was issued when the exporters did not exist at all. We

also find that other documents were procured by the appellant

which were also issued by various other authorities which have not

been alleged to be, let alone, proven to be fake or forged by the

Revenue. Evidently, they also must have been issued by concerned

officers just as GST Registration was issued by the jurisdictional

officers. 15. Unless all these officers of various organisations (including

the jurisdictional GST officer who issued the registration in

December 2018) either acted fraudulently or carelessly, the above

could not have been issued. 16. It is possible that all the authorities who issued the above

documents had issued them correctly and thereafter, by efflux of

time, when the GST officers went for verification, the situation

changed. If so, it is a ground for starting a thorough investigation

by the officer and is not a ground to revoke the licence of the

Customs Broker who processed the exports. We also find that there

is nothing in the SCN to prove that the exporters did not exist or

operate from the addresses when the Shipping Bills were filed. 17. Learned Departmental Representative submitted that officers

issue these documents as per their mandate which does not include

physical verification of the business premises. In almost all these

cases, the Registrations were issued based on online applications.

The officers are not mandated to ensure that the exporter(s)

existed and were functioning from these premises but the Customs

Broker is so mandated by Regulation 10(n) of the CBLR, 2018

which obligation does not get obliterated or diluted by the fact that

officers of various departments have issued the documents. 18. Learned Authorized Representative further submitted that

Kunal Travels cannot come to the aid of the appellant as that was

issued in the context of the erstwhile Custom House Agents

Licensing Regulations, 2004 which, as it stood during the relevant

time, did not place an obligation on the Custom House Agent 12 similar to the one in Regulation 10(n) of CBLR 2018. A provision

similar to Regulation 10(n) of CBLR, 2018 was later introduced as Regulation 13(o) of CHA Licensing Regulations, 2004 which was

considered in the case of Millenium Express Cargo 13 by this

Tribunal which decision was upheld by the High Court of Delhi. The

ratio of this order should apply to this case. 19. We have examined the order in the case of Millenium Express

Cargo and find that, that was a case where the cigarettes were

smuggled concealed in a consignment of induction cookers and the

Bill of Entry was filed by the CHA whose licence was then revoked

for violation of Regulations 13(e) and 13(o) of CHA licensing

Regulations, 2004. Of these, 13(o) is pari materia with CBLR 10(n)

under consideration in this case. In the case of Millenium express

cargo, the CHA has not even ever claimed that it had verified the

existence of the importer at the given address. Paragraph 5 of this

order is reproduced below: Thus the allegation of violation of Regulation 13(e) is
 sustainable. Further Regulation 13(o) ibid states as
 under: 13 20. Millenium express Cargo does not support the case of the

Revenue since there is nothing on record to show that the

exporters did not exist at the premises at the time of export or that

the appellants were aware about the non-existence of the exporters

when they filed the Shipping Bills. In fact, there is not even an 14 assertion by the Revenue that on the day the Shipping Bills were

filed the exporters did not exist at the premises. 21. As far as the documents issued by various Government

officers are concerned the submission of the learned departmental

representatives that the documents were neither issued

fraudulently nor issued carelessly but were issued within the

mandate of the officers who issued them and this mandate does

not include physical verification. In other words, the submission is

that the system designed by the Government for issue of these

certificates itself is such that they can be issued even to persons

who do not exist at all at the declared premises. We proceed to

examine this proposition and if it supports case of the Revenue in

these appeals. 22. It is common knowledge that in designing schemes for

issuing registrations, certificates or providing incentives, two

conflicting objectives of due diligence and facilitation are balanced.

Too many checks can make life difficult for the exporter or the

citizen and too much facilitation can open the doors for frauds.

Determining the ‗golden mean‗ and where to draw the line is a

matter of public policy. The extent of liberalization or tightening

may also vary greatly from one system to another and that is also

a matter of public policy. The entire system of exports is based

heavily on trust and facilitation and very less emphasis on due

diligence which enhances trade facilitation but also makes it

vulnerable to misuse by fraudsters. The IEC is issued by DGFT

based only on an online application and a few easy to obtain

documents. Similarly, as per the submission of the learned 15 authorized representatives for the Revenue, GSTIN is also issued

without any verification at all and through an automated process.

So, one cannot rule out the possibility of an IEC and/or GSTIN

being issued without the person even operating its business from

the address. The IEC forms the foundation for the entire system of

controls over imports and exports and, in turn, is the basis for issue

of various licences and scrips by the DGFT and is also the basis for

Customs allowing exports. As the risk management system14of the

Customs Electronic Data Interchange 15 permits majority of the

exports without either assessing the documents or examining the

records, there is a very high probability of any fraudster

successfully exporting the goods (or even empty containers) and

claiming the export incentives and profiting from it. 23. However, the burden of this very liberal, open, scheme and

its potential misuse cannot be put at the doorstep of a Customs

Broker. Just as the officer's responsibility ends with doing his part

of the job (which may be issuing a registration without physical

verification or allowing exports without assessing the documents or

examining the goods), the Customs Broker's responsibility ends

with fulfilling his responsibilities under Regulation 10 of the CBLR,

2018. In dispute in this appeal is CBLR 10(n) which, as we have

discussed above, does not require any physical verification of the

address of the exporter/importer. 24. Learned Authorized representatives for the Revenue relied on

the decision of a coordinate bench of this Tribunal in Baraskar 14 RMS 15 EDI 16 Brothers that there is an obligation on the Customs Broker to

conduct a physical verification. Firstly, there is nothing in the Regulation 10(n) about physical verification. It requires verification

that the person is operating from that address and this verification

can be done through independent, reliable, authentic, documents,

data or information. Secondly, this decision of the coordinate bench

in Baraskar brothers is contrary to the decision of the

jurisdictional Delhi High Court in Kunal Travels which is binding on

us. 25. We now proceed to examine the evidence based on which the

SCN is issued and the evidence produced by the appellant in

defence to see if the charge of violation of Regulation 10(n) by the

appellant and consequent decisions in the impugned order can be

sustained. The SCN alleged that the appellant processed exports in

respect of 30 non-existent exporters but verification was done only

in respect of the following 3 exporters which form the basis of the

entire case: ―Recommendation about the bonafides of the entity verified : ―Recommendation about the bonafides of the entity verified : 26. Inquiry Report dated 18.03.2021 concluded that the appellant

has violated provisions of Regulation 10(n) of CBLR. The Conclusion

in this report is as follows: 27. Impugned order held that as per the appellant has violated Regulation 10(n) . The relevant extract of the impugned order is as

follows: 24.2 I observe that under the mandate of the Regulation 10 (n) of
 the CBLR 2018, a Customs broker is obliged to verify correctness of
 IEC, GSTIN, identity and functioning of his client at the declared
 address by using reliable, independent, authentic documents, data or
 information. I also observe that vide Circular No. 09/2010-Customs
 dated 08.04.2010 ―Know Your Customer (KYC)‖ guidelines were
 specifically issued to CHAs (now CBs). In this context, I would like to
 discuss para 6 of the said CBIC Circular dated 08.04.2010, which states
 that : Cus dated 08.04.2010 is not relevant to the instant case as the same
 was introduced for implementation of Customs House Agent Licencing
 Regulations (CHALR), 2004 which has since been rescinded and
 superseded by CBLR, 2018 however the said circular has not been
 made applicable to CBLR, 2018; that the said Circular itself prescribes 22 PAN as a document to be obtained from the exporter and Regulation 10 (n) of CBLR, 2018 prescribes that Importer Exporter Code, GSTIN and
identity of the client and his functioning at the declared address is to be
verified to which end documents such as ―IEC, PAN, Aadhar, Electricity
Bill, Rent Agreement, AD code letter from Bank, GST registration, KYC
form etc.‖ serve the purpose. Therefore, the instant Show Cause Notice
has been issued without proper application of mind to the attendant
provisions of law and documents on record therefore the same is devoid
of any merit and unsustainable in the eyes of law; that there is no
independent material evidence to substantiate Noticee's role in the
alleged IGST refund fraud in the entire Show Cause Notice'; that
physical verification of only 3 out of total 30 exporters have been
conducted and no investigation hnas been conducted in respect of the
remaining 27 exporters, that there is neither any evidence on record to
hold that the exporters were untraceable at the time of their
engagement with the Noticee nor that the Noticee had any knowledge
of their alleged bogus nature at the relevant time, that since January,
2020 till date due the COVID-19 pandemic, exports have drastically
reduced resulting into closure of many big and small export companies
therefore the possibility that if the investigation qua the existence of the
exporters was carried out during the period of the pandemic, the
exporter's officers might have been temporarily closed, or dormant,
cannot be ruled out. 24.4 However, in the above annexure to the Circular No. 09/2010-
Customs dated 08.04.2010, detailed guidelines on the lsit of documents
to be verified and obtained from the client/customer have been
provided. But on going through the documents submitted by CB, it has
been observed that CB has not fully complied with the provisions of
Circular No. 09/2010 and has failed to verify identity of his clients and
functioning of his clients at the declared address by using reliable,
independent, authentic documents, data or information. On going
through the documents submitted by CB, it has been observed that CB
has complied with the provisions of Circular No. 09/2010 in cases of 01
exporter only and has failed to obtain mandated documents in case of
other 29 exporters. Further, I find that in cases of 03 exporters M/s
Cuthbert Fashion Industrt (P) Ltd., M/s KK Tradelinks and M/s Golden
Impex, even the address mentioned in the documents submitted does
not match with the address in GSTIN. Further, the said Circular
specifically states that ―It would also be obligatory for the
client/customer to furnish to the CHA, a photograph of himself/herself
in the case of an individual and those of the authorized signatory in
respect of other forms of organizations such as company/trusts etc.,
and any two of the listed documents in the annexure‖. However, on
going through the documents submitted it was also observed that in
many of the cases, the CB has failed to collect photograph of the
authorized signatory. 24.5 Further, it was found that in most of the cases, the CB has
procured some other documents viz. KYC form, IEC, GST Registration,
Aadhar, Electricity Bill, Rent Agreement, AD code letter from bank, etc.
Which are not prescribed under the Circular 09/2010-Cutoms dated
08.04.2010 to establish address & identity proof and in my view CB has
failed to fulfil his obligation cast upon him in terms of provisions laid
down under Regulation 10 (n) o CBLR, 2018 read with the said Circular.

24.6 I also note that an examination of the documents in respect of
some of the exporters submitted by the CB along with their submissions
dated 15.03.2021, it is further noticed by the Inquiry Officer that : (iii) In case of Krish Overseas, the declared address on IEC and
 GST Registration Certificate is A-4/135, G/F, Paschim Vihar
 West Delhi - 110 063. However, address on Aadhar Card is
 A-6 205C Paschim Vihar, Delhi. There is no other KYC
 document. (iv) In case of Balayan Impex, the declared address on IEC is
 House No. 174, Village Pooth Kalan, Near Bal Vidhya Mandir,
 Delhi - 110 086 whereas address on GST Registration
 Certificate is 2nd Floor, House No. 174, Village Pooth Kalan,
 Near Bal Vidhya Mandir Model School, Delhi - 110 086‖. (ix) In case of Golden Impex, WZ-62, Shop No. 03, Ground Floor,
 Possangipur Village, Janak Puri, New Delhi, having proprietor
 as Anand Kumar Gupta, the BSES Electricity bill taken as KYC
 document is issued in the name of Mr. Virender Kumar. (x) In case of Cuthbert Fashion Industry Private Limited, the
 declared address on IEC is A-6/1, Ground Floor, Gali No. 5,
 East Krishna Nagar, Delhi - 110 051 where address on GST
 is 305, B-Block, 3rd Floor, NDM-1, Netaji Subhash Place,
 Pitampura, New Delhi. (xi) In case of M/s Shukra Enterprises having declared address
 on IEC as well as GST registration certificate as Flat No. 22,
 F/F, Janta Flats Pocket B, Sector-16B, Dwarka, New Delhi,
 the address on Electricity Bill is same, however, in the
 address certificate dated 22nd June 2018, the address of the
 proprietorship concern in bank records is A-1/16, Laxmi
 Vihar, Mohan Garden, Uttam Nagar, New Delhi. (xii) Many of the documents submitted by the Noticee are
 illegible. 24.7 Accordingly, I find that violation of Regulation 10 (n) stands
established and the defence arguments do not hold good and from the
above stated facts, it is evident that contravention of Regulation 10 (n) of CBLR 2018 {erstwhile Regulation 11 (n) of CBLR 2013} stands
established. 25. I also note that the CB has relied some judgments in their
favour. However, I find that the judgments relied upon by the CB are
distinguished on the facts and circumstances of each case. Rather
reliance is placed on the decision of Division Bench of Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India who in its judgement dated 14.01.2016 in Commissioner of Customs versus K.M. Gantra & Co. In Civil Appeal 24 No. 2940 of 2008 inter alia observed that ―The CHA occupies a very
 important position in the Customs House. The Customs procedures are
 complicated. The importers have to deal with a multiplicity of agencies
 viz. Carriers, custodians like BPT as well as the Customs. The importer
 would find it impossible to clear his goods through agencies without
 wasting valuable energy and time. The CHA is supposed to safeguard
 the interests of both the importers and the Customs. A lot of trust is
 kept in CHA by the importers/exporters as well as by the Government
 Agencies. To ensure appropriate discharge of such trust, the relevant
 regulations are framed. Regulation 14 of the CHA Licensing Regulations
 lists out obligations of the CHA. Any contravention of such obligations
 even without intent would be sufficient to invite upon the CHA the
 punishment listed in the Regulations.‖ 26. The Hon'ble CESTAT in the case of Baraskar Brothers versus
 Commissioner of Customs (General), Mumbai [2009 (244) E.L.T.
 562], has also upheld that ―there is no second opinion of the fact that
 the CHA is a very important component in the whole system of Customs
 administration, which has a major bearing on Customs revenue
 collection and national security. The CHAs cannot shy away from the
 responsibilities and obligations casted upon them by law‖. 27. In view of the above discussion, I find that mere obtaining the
 documents without following the norms prescribed in Circular 09/2010-
 Customs dated 08.04.2010 in this regard is non-compliance of the
 stipulated provisions. Accordingly, I hold that CB M/s Sai Chhaya Impex
 Pvt. Ltd. Has contravened the provisions of Regulation 10 (n) of the
 CBLR, 2018 read with the Circular 09/2010-Customs dated 08.04.2010‖ 28. It appears from the verification reports that the officers

enquired not giving the names of the exporters but enquired if an

exporter with a particular GSTIN existed in that address. People

and businesses are remembered by their names and not by their

GSTIN or PAN or Voter ID Card number. If anyone goes to an area

and enquires, for instance, if a person with a particular PAN lives

hardly anyone will be able to confirm. 29. Further, we find that the conclusion in the verification reports

are ‗Non-existent exporter', ‗NOC denied' and ‗No such firm was

found existing at the said premises and therefore, IGST Refund

claims made by the exporter are bogus and may be rejected.' None

of them state that the exporter never operated from that premises

and the officer has issued GSTIN to a non-existent firm or at the

time of verification, the firm was not operating from the premises 25 but it may or may not have existed at the time of export. If the

former is the case, it is also not clear why and how the officer who

conducted the verification or his predecessor issued the GSTIN to a

non-existent exporter. 30. As far as the remark ‗NOC denied' is concerned, it is

presumed NOC refers to a No Objection Certificate. Neither the

exporter nor the Customs Broker require such a certificate from the

officer and it does not appear that such a certificate was sought

either. 31. As far as the recommendation to deny the IGST refund is

concerned, it has nothing to do with the appellant processing the

exports by the exporter, let alone come to the support the finding

in the impugned order that the appellant had not conducted the

verification as required under Regulation 10(n) . 32. Thus, none of these three RUDs make out any case to show

that the Customs Broker had not fulfilled its obligation under Regulation 10(n) of CBLR 2018. 33. Even if it is presumed that the officers had conducted the

enquiries properly indicating the names of the exporters and found

that the exporters had not existed on the day of verification, it is

not clear if the exporter never operated from that premises and the

GSTIN and the IEC were wrongly issued by the officers without

verification or it had shifted or closed after the GSTIN or IEC were

issued. If so, it is not clear if the exporter had existed or not on the

day the appellant obtained the KYC documents and processed the

exports. 34. In view of the above, we find that: 35. In view of the above, the impugned order revoking the

Customs Brokers licence of the appellant, forfeiting their security

deposit and further imposing penalty on the appellants cannot be

sustained and needs to be set aside. 36. The impugned order is set aside and the appeal is allowed

with consequential relief to the appellant. (Order pronounced in open court on 03/02/2023.)

 (Justice Dilip Gupta)
 President

 (P. Venkata Subba Rao)
 Member (Technical)
PK