The petitioner alleges deficiency on the part of the
 Ombudsman of Reserve Bank of India in
 disposing of the complaint lodged by the
 petitioner without affording any opportunity of
 hearing to him. 2. It appears that the Ombudsman considered the
 petitioner's representation and found that there
 was no deficiency on the part of RBL Bank Ltd. 3. The complaint of the petitioner is that certain
 amount stood debited from his credit card online.
 The petitioner claims to be a victim of fraud. It
 has been asserted that the petitioner never
 shared any one time password (OTP) which was
 generated for the transactions. 4. The details of the transactions are annexed to the
 writ petition. It is submitted that the timing
 between the seven transactions which took place
 on December 10, 2024 between 13.12 hours and
 13.19 hours to the tune of Rs.2,99,710.08/- is
 such that it is humanly not possible to share the 2 OTP within such short span of time. 5. The petitioner further submits that fraud was
 reported to the bank on the very same day, and
 that the bank failed to take any steps to trace out
 the fraudsters. 6. It has been submitted that the bank is regularly
 debiting amount from the petitioner's credit card. 7. Prayer has been made to set aside the order of the
 banking Ombudsman and further restrain the
 bank from deducting any amount from the
 petitioner's credit card. 8. Learned counsel for the bank asserts that the
 petitioner himself disclosed vital statistics of his
 credit card to the caller. The fraudsters may have
 misutilized the details and the amount got
 debited from the petitioner's credit card. It has
 been submitted that there is no deficiency in
 service on the part of the bank. 9. From the documents annexed to the writ petition,
 it appears that a police complaint was lodged and
 that the police have investigated the matter and
 filed a charge-sheet. 10. The petitioner has admitted in his writ petition
 that he disclosed certain whereabouts of his
 credit card, such as his card number, CVV
 number and the expiry date of the credit card.
 The same implies that the petitioner indeed
 disclosed his card details to unknown persons.
 The issue is already pending consideration before
 the criminal Court. I am of the opinion that the
 bank cannot be held primarily responsible for the
 deficiency in service as alleged. 11. In view of the above, no relief can be granted in
 favour of the petitioner. The writ petition fails
 and is hereby dismissed. 12. Report filed by the bank be taken on record. Affidavit of service filed in Court be also taken on
 record. 13. All parties are to act on the server copy of this
 order duly downloaded from the official website of
 this Court. 14. Certified copy of this order, if applied for, shall be
 made available to the parties. [Amrita Sinha, J ]