PER BENCH

 These are two appeals filed by the revenue aggrieved from the order

of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeal)- 4, Jaipur [ Here in after

referred as Ld. CIT(A) ] passed on 25.11.2021 for the assessment year

2013-14 in the two cases. The appeal filed before the ld. CIT(A) was arising

out of the assessment order passed by the Assistant Commissioner of

Income Tax, Central Circle-3, Jaipur dated 31.12.2019 pursuant to the

search and seizure action under section 132 of the Income Tax Act, passed

under section 143(3) r.w.s. 153 A of the Act . The assessee has also 3 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

preferred a cross objection against the revenue's appeal in ITA No.

54/JPR/2022 and 55/JPR/2022. 2. All these set of appeals are related to one group and issues are

interrelated and almost common, heard together and therefore, the same is

disposed off by this common order. 3. Both the parties have argued and considered the related facts and

contentions raised from the folder in the case of M/s. N. M. Agrofoods

Products Private Limited for assessment year 2013-14 and the same is

considered as lead case for the purpose of disposing these bunch of group

cases. 4. Before us the revenue has assailed the impugned order of the ld. CIT(A) on the following grounds: ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 Ground-3. Further, the learned CIT Appeal has erred in law and on facts in
 granting relief to the taxpayer by ignoring the findings of the learned Assessing
 Officer detailed in para 12 of the assessment order, wherein among others, she
 has held that Shri HanishToshniwal has accepted in his statement that he had
 provided only bogus accommodation entries from M/s.Kalyani Suppliers Private
 Limited and M/s.Everlink Vyapar Private Limited in the form of purchase
 transactions in the books of the taxpayer. Ground-4. While granting relief to the assessee, the learned CIT appeals has
 ignored the test of human probability and surrounding circumstances as laid
 down by the Honourable Supreme Court in the cases of Sumati Dayal 214 ITR
 801 SC, and Durga Prasad More 82 ITR 540 SC. Ground-5. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, and in law the
 Ld. CIT(A) erred in ignoring the factual survey/inquiry report as reported in the
 assessment order. Ground-6. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, and in law the
 Ld. CIT(A) erred in deleting the addition inspite of the assessee's admission in
 oath u/s 132(4) of the IT Act, 1961 regarding no physical possession of goods
 purchased from M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyappar Pvt.
 Ltd. Ground-7. The Appellant craves leave or reserves right to amend, modify, alter,
 add or forego any ground(s) of appeal at any time before or during the hearing of
 this appeal. 5. Whereas, in the same case of the same assessment year the

assessee has taken the following ground in the cross objections filed; Grounds of cross-objections 1. The Ld. CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law in upholding the assessment
 order passed u/s 143(3) / 153A of the Act even after accepting that no
 incriminating material was found in search in support of the addition made by
 the AO by observing that statement recorded u/s 132(4) is also important
 piece of evidence which can be relied by the AO for making the addition even
 when there is no admission of income in statement u/s 132(4) . 2. The assessee carves right to add, alter, amend, and modify any of the ground
 of appeal. 3. Necessary cost be awarded to the assessee. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 6. The brief facts of the case are that in this case, original return of

income was filed by assessee on 31.03.2014, declaring total income at Rs. 53,82,460/- for the Assessment Year 2013-14. Thereafter, the case of

assessee was selected for scrutiny. Accordingly, the assessment u/s

143(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961 was completed on 01.03.2016 and the

income was assessed at Rs. 79,31,480/-. 7. A search was conducted on 08.02.2018 in the case of "NM Group,

Sriganganagar" to which the assessee belongs. Various assets/books of

account and documents were found and seized as per annexure prepared

during the course of search. On account of the search the jurisdiction of the

assessee was transferred pursuant to the order under section 127 of the

Income Tax Act, 1961 [ here in after the Act ] dated 04.05.2018 by the Pr. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bikaner. 8. Accordingly, notice u/s 153A of the IT Act, 1961 for this year was

issued on 30.07.2018 and duly served upon the assessee. In compliance to

the notice u/s 153A of the IT Act, 1961, return of income was e-filed on

22.08.2018, declaring total income of Rs. 53,82,460/- for the year under

consideration. The assessee company is carrying out business of Grain 6 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

Merchants. Apart from this, the assessee has shown income from house

property. 9. Notices u/s 143(2) & 142(1) of the Income tax, 1961 were issued

along with questionnaire requiring certain details/ information, which was

duly served upon the assessee. During the course of assessment

proceedings, it was observed that assessee has shown to have engaged in

purchase with M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd for F.Y. 2012-13. The assessee company has shown to have made

purchases of stock - in - trade from M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s

Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s Everlink

Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd as on the date of search were shown to be outstanding

trade creditors in the books of the assessee to the tune of Rs. 28,50,60,169/- and Rs. 24,76,72,484/-respectively. In order to examine the

bonafides of such creditors, the complete financial statements including

annexures of some of the group concerns of the assessee company along

with the details of these companies were analysed in great detail during the

search as well as during the assessment proceedings. Broadly two major

companies were identified to be bogus sundry creditors from whom the

assessee has shown to have made purchases in its books of accounts but 7 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

the same amount was outstanding as per the books for around five years

which creates serious doubts with regards to normal business prudence. In

the light of the above facts detailed discussion is made on the credentials

of these two companies in the assessment order. The ld. AO observed that

M/s. Kalyani Suppliers Private Limited is incorporated at Kolkata. No

information was found with regard to any branch office, factory godown etc.

of this company in Sriganganagar. The financial details of the company

were retrieved from the AST system of the income tax department and are

reproduced as under: 10. The assessee has shown to have engaged in purchase with M/s

Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd for the F.Y. 2012-13. The very fact that this

company, shown to be based in Kolkata is one of the large creditors i.e.

one of the large trade partner of a firm based in Srigangangar, Rajasthan

appears unusual. On perusal of the financials of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd, it is seen that M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. has shown to have 8 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

engaged in huge volume of sale/ purchase, however, the corresponding net

profit that it is offering to tax is very low. Further, the turnover has

decreased by more than 5 times from A.Y. 2014 15 to A.Y. 2015-16. However, the corresponding net profit has marginally increased which is in

itself illogical and cannot be reasonably explained. 11. It was also learnt that the Directorate of Income Tax (Investigation),

Kolkata had previously identified M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. to be a

jama kharchipaper company floated for the sole purpose of providing

accommodation entries. The Directorate had also identified one Shri

Hanish Toshniwal to be the entry operator controlling this company. During

the course of a statement recorded from Shri Hanish Toshniwal by the

D.D.I.T., Unit 1(2), Kolkata on 11.03.2015 u/s 131 of the I.T. Act, Shri

Hanish Toshniwal, in his statement, has admitted that he was the entry

operator who was managing, inter alia, M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd

(listed as company No. 187 in the statement) for the purpose of providing

accommodation entries to certain clients. 12. In light of the above-mentioned anomalies, and in order to verify the

credentials of this company, a survey u/s 133A was conducted at the given 9 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

registered address of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd at 340, GT Road,

Howrah, Kolkata during the course of search action in the case of the NM

Group. The survey team did not find the existence of this company at the

given registered address, and therefore, the survey authorization was

returned unexecuted. Another survey team conducted survey at a business

premises occupied by Shri Hanish Toshniwal and recorded his statement. In the said statement, Shri Hanish Toshniwal re-iterated his stand that M/s

Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd is a shell company and that he has utilized M/s

Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd to provide accommodation entries to the NM

Group. 13. From the perusal of the statement it is clear that the assessee has

taken accommodation entry in the grab of bogus purchase and has shown

M/s. Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. to be one of the bogus sundry creditors. Shri Hanish Toshniwal has clearly stated that amount was received in the

bank accounts through cheque or RTGS and the same was being returned

back by routing it after withdrawal of the same amount of cash in lieu of

commission. During the course of search, Shri Manoj Kumar, the key

individual of the NM Group was confronted with the above-mentioned

evidences and was asked to provide his clarification on the matter 10 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

regarding the existence and identity of M/s. Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. In

response, Shri Manoj Kumar stated that he had entered into sale-purchase

of agro commodities with one Shri Roopchandji of Bikaner, and that this

person Shri Roopchandji traded on behalf of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. Shri Manoj Kumar did not offer any explanation on the existence or

otherwise of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd in Kolkata though he was

confronted with the same. Also from the statements of Sh. Amit Gidra, the

main accountant of the Group it is clear that the entities of the group

including M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. is involved in booking

bogus purchases which actually doesn't take place but are simply recorded

in the books of accounts. Hence from the statement it is clear that the

assessee Group has been regularly indulging in such practices of creating

bogus trade creditors wherein the actual sale and purchase of the

commodities doesn't take place. Sh. Amit Gidra is the main accountant of

the Group and is also related to Sh. Manoj Gupta, therefore, he is well

versed with the practices adopted by the entities of the group to manage its

transactions. 14. During the search proceedings, a computer was found at his

premises in which only the details related to accounts of the Group were 11 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

maintained. Even the house in which he was residing belongs to the

members of the group only. Shri Amit Gidra has clearly stated that to

maintain the assessee company turnover was indulged in circular trading

and Kolkata based companies are also part of such practice. 15. During the course of post-search proceedings, when asked about the

genuineness of purchases shown to have been made from M/s Kalyani

Suppliers Pvt. Ltd, Shri Manoj Kumar stated on oath that since the amounts

due to be paid to M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd have remained outstanding

in their books of accounts for over 05 years, he is voluntarily willing to write- back on account of cessation of liability owed by the N. M. Group concerns

M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and consider such ceased liability as the

Income of the NM Group concerns for the F.Y. 2017-18. The ld. AO

observed that if these transactions were genuine then why the assessee

would offer to write back the same. Even no evidences related to payment

persuasion have been submitted by the assessee. Evidences gathered

during search indicate that M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd was non-existent

at the registered address at the time of survey. Evidences gathered also

indicate that Shri Hanish Toshniwal has claimed to have used this company

to provide accommodation entries to certain clients including N.M. Group. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

The assessee has voluntarily acceded to write-back the liabilities of M/s

Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and consider the liabilities owed to this company

by the NM Group concerns as incomes for the F.Y. 2017-18 and the

assessee company has written back the same but on the other hand has

also claimed bad debts of nearly same amount. Even otherwise the

assessee could neither provide any evidence to controvert the findings as

discussed above nor could show any evidence related to any efforts being

made by M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd for realisation of its funds. It is hard

to believe that why would any company in the course business not try to

realise the funds extended by it for sale of goods/services. It is against

business expediency to even think that the said company would simply

leave such a big amount lying as it is the hands to one of its debtors and

not push for any kind of repayment. 16. Same was the case of M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt Ltd which was also

shown to be an outstanding trade creditor in the books of M/s N M

Agrofood Private Limited to the tune of Rs. 24,76,72,484/-. 17. M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd has shown itself to be a company

Incorporated at 77, Netaji Subhash Road, 5th Floor, Room No. SA, 13 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

Kolkata. No information has been found with regard to any branch office,

factory, godown etc. of this company in Sriganganagar. The financial

details of this company were retrieved from the official AST System of the

Income Tax Department, and are reproduced as under: 18. As discussed above the Directorate Income-tax (Investigation),

Kolkata has also identified M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd to be a jama- kharchi paper company floated for the sole purpose of providing

accommodation entries through its entry operator Shri Hanish Toshniwal. During the course of a statement recorded from Shri Hanish Toshniwal by

the D.D.I.T., Unit 1(2), Kolkata on 11.03.2015 u/s 131 of the I.T. Act, Shri

Hanish Toshniwal, in his statement, has admitted that he was the entry

operator who was managing, inter-alia, M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd

(listed as company No. 126 in the statement) for the purpose of providing

accommodation entries to certain clients. 19. In light of the above mentioned anomalies, and in order to verify the

genuineness of this company, a survey u/s 133A was conducted at the

given registered address of M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd at 77, Netaji

Subhash Road, 5th Floor, Room No. 5A, Kolkata during the course of

search action in the case of the NM Group. The survey team did not find 15 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

the existence of this company at the given registered address, and

therefore, the survey authorization was returned unexecuted. 20. Another survey team conducted survey at a business premises

occupied by Shri Hanish Toshniwal and recorded a statement from him. In

the said statement, Shri Hanish Toshniwal re-iterated his stand that M/s

Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd is a shell company and that he has utilized M/s

Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd to provide accommodation entries to the NM

Group. 21. During the course of post-search proceedings, when asked about the

genuineness of purchases shown to have been made from M/s Everlink

Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd, Shri Manoj Kumar Initially stated on 21.03.2018 that the

money owed to M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd was on account of sale- purchase of guwar, and that due to shortage of funds, payment could not

be done. Shri Manoj Kumar further stated that they have been receiving

legal notices from M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd for payment of outstanding

dues, and that insofar as non-existence of M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd is

concerned, the NM Group had entered into dealing with Shri Roopchand 16 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

Toshniwal and only he can explain why the said company does not

currently exist at the given address. 22. Subsequently, Shri Manoj Kumar was again, on 07.05.2018, asked to

explain the bonafides of the outstanding credit amount owed to M/s

Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. Shri Manoj Kumar further submitted that the NM

Group concerns would voluntarily write-back the amounts owed to M/s

Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd and consider such ceased liability as the income

of the NM Group concerns for the current year i.e F.Y. 2018-19. 23. Evidences gathered during search indicate that M/s Everlink Vyapaar

Pvt. Ltd was not existent at the registered address at the time of survey. Evidences gathered also indicate that Shri Hanish Toshniwal has claimed

to have used this company to provide accommodation entries to certain

clients including NM Group. 24. The assessee company couldn't prove the genuineness of this

transaction during the assessment proceedings. The legal letters as

mentioned by the Shri Manoj Gupta were not presented nor could the

assessee produce any kind of evidence to substantiate that the creditor has 17 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

pressurized the assessee to pay the outstanding dues even after a long

interval of time has elapsed. 25. During the course of assessment proceedings, the assessee was

asked to show cause that in the view of facts and circumstances as

discussed above why the purchases shown to have been made by the

assessee from M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. and Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. amounting to Rs. 53,27,32,653/- shouldn't be considered as bogus and

added back to the total income of the assessee for FY 2012-13. 26. The relevant part of the reply of the show cause notice furnished by

the assessee is reproduced hereunder: However due to financial crisis & liquidity problem, payment could not be
 made to both these parties. Though these trade creditors are genuine but
 being long outstanding for more than three year & statement given during
 the course of search regarding writing back of these trade creditors in AY
 18-19 & 19-20, assessee has written back the outstanding amount of both
 these companies in AY 2018-19 & AY 2019-20. ii) Following supporting documents are enclosed in support of genuineness
 of the transaction with both these parties: ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta iii) Copies of purchase & sale bill of both the parties are enclosed for your
 verification. It is submitted that assessment proceeding of AY 2013-14 has
 been completed u/s 143(3) wherein all these trading transactions has
 been fully examined. Copy of assessment order is enclosed. iv) A search & seizure operation u/s 132 of the Act has been carried out at
 the business & residential of assessee. During the course of search, no
 incriminating material suspecting the transaction with both these parties
 has been found. Further prior to this, a search proceeding u/s 132 was
 also carried 17-07-2013 and also survey proceeding u/s 133A of the Act in
 March 2012 December 2014 and during all these proceeding no
 incriminating material was found these transactions. transactions entered
 with both these parties are genuine and fully verifiable. v) It is submitted that trading transaction with both these parties has been
 entered in AY 2013-14. vi) It is submitted that both these company are active company and duly
 complying all the statutory compliance and also uploaded their
 geographical location on the MCA website. vii) Copy of audited financial statement of both these company for AY 2013-
 14 & 2018-19 is enclosed. viii) Assessee has approached present director of both these companies and
 they are sending the confirmation showing outstanding balance due to
 them. Confirmation will be submitted within 2 3 days' time. 1. That your good self has not pointed out any specific reason of alleging the
 transaction of two trade creditors. It is thus requested to provide specific
 reason or basis of alleging the these transaction and giving show cause to
 add the entire amount u/s 68 of the Act. 2. It appears that sole basis of your allegation that transactions entered with two
 companies namely Kalyani Suppliers Pvt Ltd. and Everlink Vyapar Pvt Ltd.
 are accommodation entries is on the basis of statement of Shri Hanish
 Toshniwal. Shri Hanish Toshniwal in his statement dt. 11-03-15 has pointed
 out 207 companies list as Jamakharchi company' and also provided list of
 beneficiaries, however list of beneficiaries company were not provided to us.
 It is further submitted that in statement dt. 08-02-18, he has pointed out the
 name of beneficiary as 'N M Group' but that is limited to transaction with
 Kalyani Suppliers Pvt Ltd and Everlink Vyapar Pvt Ltd. Thus his statement
 cannot be taken as base to allege share capital transaction or unsecured loan
 transaction. 3. It is submitted that statement of Shri Hanish Toshniwal cannot be taken as
 base as he is neither director at the time of when all these transactions has
 taken place nor at the time when his statement was recorded. 4. It is submitted that statement of Shri Hanish Toshniwal is not at all reliable on
 account of following reasons: HanishToshniwal is not reliable and same is tutored or recorded under
 pressure which is completely baseless and vague. The assessee simply
 has levelled allegations upon the manner in which the statements were
 recorded. It is pertinent to mention that Sh. Toshniwal didn't file any
 retraction at any point of time from his statement. He gave the statements
 and stated the same facts twice during the statements recorded on
 11.03.2015 and 08.02.2018. Had this been a case of apparent tutored 20 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 statement as submitted by the assessee then why would he state the
 same fact twice. 7. It is relevant to note here that the statement recorded on oath u/s 132(4) holds evidentiary value and it can't be simply challenged upon the
 baseless allegations as levied by the assessee. 8. Sh. Hanish Toshniwal has elaborately explained in detail the entire modus
 operandi of such orchestrated transactions which itself poses a question
 mark over the submission of the assessee. The assessee has now
 submitted that a confirmation letter vide letter dated 20.12.2019 but the
 present directors are not those who knew about these orchestrated
 transactions. They would have simply given the confirmation looking into
 the statements but what was the real nature of these transactions was
 already explained by Sh. Toshniwal who was then managing the affairs of
 the company. 9. The assessee's request with regards to cross examination is not
 acceptable as the same was not raised throughout post search and
 assessment proceedings. The aseesee has asked for the same on
 13.12.2019 when the case is getting barred by limitation on 31.12.2019. It
 is important to mention here that right of cross examination is not an
 absolute right ( Nath International Sales Vs. UOI , AIR 1992 (Del.) 295).
 The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also held that right of hearing does not
 necessarily include right of cross-examination. The right of cross
 examination must depend upon the circumstances of each case and also
 on the statute concerned. (State of J&K Vs. Bakshi Gulam Mohammad,
 AIR 1967 SC 122). The question whether the assessee is entiled to cross
 examination a question which may largely depend on the facts and
 circumstances of the case (Shyamlal biri Merchant Vs UOI 1993 68 ELT
 548, Allahabad). The Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in the case of Rameshwar Lal Mall V/S
 CIT 256 ITR 536 (Raj.) has held that "There is no provision for permitting
 the cross examination the persons whose statement were recorded during
 survey." In the case of Mahendra N. Chatterjee V/s Collector of Central Excise
 (1977) Tax LR 1754 (Cal.) the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court held that
 "Right to cross examination not necessarily a part of reasonable
 opportunity." 28. It has further stated that the fact of the matter also becomes amply

clear when the statements Shri Amit Gidra, the main accountant of the 21 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

group are perused which makes clear that the assessee has been

indulging in such bogus transactions where actual purchase-sale doesn't

take place and only bills are raised. 29. It is hard to believe that if these were actual business transactions

then why the assessee would write back the same in form of cessation of

liability. It is pertinent to note that the turnover of the assessee in the year

under consideration around Rs. 5,69,52,30,590/- out of which the sum

pertaining to these two companies Rs. 53,27,32,653/- which is nearly one

ten of the total turnover. Normal business prudence doesn't allow any

business entity to write back such huge amount vis a vis turnover had

these been genuine transactions. 30. To summarize following important issues are evident: 31. Therefore, the transactions entered into by the assessee with M/s

Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd are alleged as

bogus transactions entered into for the purpose of artificially inflating the

expenses and thereby reducing the taxable income. These are simply

bogus transactions which is orchestrated to suit the financial needs of the

assessee company. However, fact of the matter is that these companies

have provided accommodation entries to the assessee, therefore the said

accommodation entry bills are bogus and are to be treated as the

assessee's unexplained income under the provisions of section 68 of the

Income tax Act, 1961. The same are unexplained and reflecting in the

books of accounts of the assessee for an amount of Rs. 53,27,32,653/-. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 32. Aggrieved from the order of the ld. AO the assessee marched the

appeal before the ld. CIT(A). The ld. CIT(A) after discussing the matter in

detailed, partly allowed the appeal of the assessee. The revenue aggrieved

by the order of ld. CIT(A) assailed this appeal before us and the assessee

has also filed cross objection against the said order of the ld. CIT(A) before

us. 33. The ld. DR has filed the Paper book containing 56 pages of the

evidences relied upon on 25.04.2022 wherein ld. DR has submitted various

statement of the persons in these group cases and also filed the report of

the inspector who conducted verification / inquiry in this case. He has also

filed his written submission at length which is extracted here in below: In the assessment order dated 31.12.2019 the assessing officer had made
 addition of Rs.53,27,32,653/- in this case u/s 68 of the Act. The said additions
 were made on account of bogus purchases from two parties, namely, M/s
 Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd.. The assessee has
 shown purchases of Rs.28,50,60,169/- from M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and
 purchases of Rs.24,76,72,484/- from M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. The AO had
 made addition giving the following reasons 24 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

i. The Directorate of Income Tax (Inv.), Kolkata had identified both the
 parties as paper companies floated for the sole purpose of providing
 accommodation entries. The Directorate also identified Shri Hanish
 Toshniwal as the entry operator controlling these companies and he had
 also admitted in statement u/s 131 of the Act that he used to provide
 accommodation entries through these companies. ii. A survey was conducted simultaneously during the course of search in the
 case of the assessee company at the premises of both the companies but
 these companies were found non-existent at the time of survey.
iii. Business premises of Shri Hanish Toshniwal was also surveyed and he
 admitted in the statement during the course of survey also that both the
 companies were floated for providing accommodation entries.
iv. The AO also referred to the statements of Shri Manoj Kumar, the key
 person of The N.M. Agro Group and Shri Amit Gidra accountant of the
 group to bring home the point that there was no real business transactions
 between the assessee company and the aforesaid two companies.
v. The AO has also mentioned the fact that the above two companies are
 appearing as creditors in the books of account of the assessee company
 for past around five years and when the assessee could not substantiate
 the above purchase transactions, it has voluntarily written back these
 purchase transactions in FY 2017-18 and 2018-19. On the basis of the above facts, the AO made addition of Rs.53,27,32,653/-. The assessee filed appeal before the CIT(A). One of the grounds of appeal was
that as the addition is not based on any incriminating material, therefore, the
same is required to be deleted. The Ld. CIT(A) vide her order dated 25.11.2021
dismissed this technical ground. She discussed in her order that how
incriminating material present was found in this case. However, on merits, the Ld.
CIT(A) deleted entire addition of Rs.53,27,32,653/-. The relief was provided by
the Ld. CIT(A) mainly on the grounds that the modus operandi cited by Shri
Hanish Toshniwal was not applicable in this case, as there was no payment to
these parties and therefore, the question of receiving back of the paid amount in
cash does not arise. It was further observed by the Ld. CIT(A) that the appellant
has already written back the amount of these two creditors as cessation of
trading liability and offered them to tax u/s 41(1) of the Act in AY 2018-19 and
2019-20. The order of the ld. CIT(A) suffers following infirmities 1. As far as the question of non-application of the modus operandi clarified
 by Shri Hanish Toshniwal is concerned, it is to be kept in mind that he
 provided entries to numerous beneficiaries across the country. There
 cannot be any standard modus operandi in this situation and the fact
 remains that the assessee claimed expenses of Rs.53,27,32,653/- through 25 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 bogus purchases from these companies in this year. Whether the same
 amount was received back or not, is not important. What is important is
 that whether the expenses on purchases were genuine or not. If the
 purchases were not genuine, then the same can always be disallowed
 straight away without mentioning any section. In this case, it is clear from
 the factual matrix presented by the AO in the assessment order that the
 companies were non-existent at the given addresses, the entry operator
 Shri Hanish Toshniwal had admitted twice in his statements that these
 companies were created for providing accommodation entries. Further,
 there was no payment to these companies against the alleged purchases
 for more than five years and the assessee company has indirectly
 admitted the purchases being bogus by writing back the amounts in AY
 2018-19 and 2019-20. Therefore, it is a clear case of disallowance in this
 year. Merely because the amount has been written back by the assessee
 in subsequent year does not entitle the assessee to claim this amount in
 the year concerned. The bogus entry cannot be allowed in the year when
 it was claimed only because of the fact that it has been offered for taxation
 u/s 41(1) of the Act in a subsequent year. 2. It is also to be kept in mind that in the return filed in response to notice u/s
 153A of the Act, the assessee has shown total income of Rs.53,82,460/-.
 However, in the return of income filed for the AY. 2018-19, the assessee
 has shown total income of Rs.11,55,995/- and the total income for AY
 2019 20 has been shown at loss of Rs.1,34,44,659/- Thus the assessee
 has written back the bogus amounts in a pre-managed manner in order to
 hoodwink the Revenue since even after offering these amounts, the
 returned income in AY 2018-19 is just Rs. 11,55,995 and it is at a
 whopping loss in AY 2019-20. Had the bogus losses would not have
 claimed in AY 2013-14, then the total income of the assessee would have
 been Rs. 53,81,15,113. The Ld. CIT(A) could not appreciate the facts of
 the case in the correct perspective and granted the relief to the assessee
 in an erroneous manner. Similarly in the case of Sh Suresh Kumar Gupta
 there are heavy losses in AY 2019-20 and the ld. CIT(A) has allowed the
 relief in an erroneous manner. It has been held by the Hon'ble Kolkata Bench of the Tribunal in the case
 of Green Star Corporation v ACIT in ITA No. 2463/Kol/2017 that no
 addition can be made in the income of the assessee in that asstt. year, as
 in the view of the AO the outstanding liability in question was bogus and
 non-existent. The Hon'ble Tribunal further held that the question of
 cessation of such non-existent as bogus liability does not arise. Hence, section 41(1) cannot be applied. (Copy of the order is enclosed) 3. If it was felt that the AO had applied a wrong section in the facts and
 circumstances of the case, then the remedy would have been to correct
 the mistake of the AO by the CIT(A), rather than deleting the entire
 addition. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 Counter-arguments to the contentions of the Id. AR in Cross-objections. The ld. AR has objected to the dismissal of the ground of appeal of absence of
 incriminating material by the ld. CIT(A). It has been argued that the statement of
 Sh. Hanish Toshniwal cannot be regarded as incriminating material, as how he
 could remember the name of all companies, assumption has been made by the
 ld. AR that the departmental officers have provided the list to him, it has been
 further argued that there was no payment in this case so question of receiving
 back money in cash does not arise. It has been further argued that the directors
 have not met Sh Toshniwal in person. Finally it has been argued that no
 opportunity of cross examination was provided to the assessee. The issue of non-payment and modus-operandi has already been dealt on page-
 2 and 3 above. As regards the list containing name of companies is concerned, it
 is to be noted that a person is not required to memorize the names of companies.
 During survey he can always have an access to his books of account and cull out
 information from there. The entry operators have always have a list of companies
 operated by them with them to conduct their day-to-day so-called business. The
 allegation of providing the list by the departmental officers is without any iota of
 evidence and is highly objectionable and contrary to the presumption as per the Evidence Act . Further, even if it is assumed for sake of argument the the fact
 narrated by Sh Toshniwal regarding meeting the directors of the assessee
 company is wrong, then also it does not have any impact on the case. It is not
 required to meet in person for transactions in modern days of advanced
 telecommunication tools and internet facilities. As far as opportunity of cross-objections is concerned, it is to be noted that this
 right is not an absolute right and it is mandatory only when addition is based
 solely on the basis of some statement. In this case, addition has been made on
 the basis of following material. apart from the statement of Sh Hanish Toshniwal 1. Finding of the survey at the premises of the supplier companies. 2. Statement of key person of the group and main accountant of the group. 3. Non-payment of the amount for about 5 years. 4. Writing- back of the amount by the assessee itself in AY 2018-19 and AY
 2019-20 in a pre-managed manner to hoodwink the Revenue indicating the
 indirect admission on the part of the assessee itself. Hence, the cross-objections of the assessee are liable to be dismissed. 34. In addition to the above written submission, before us, the ld. DR also

heavily argued and relied upon the findings of the assessing officer and 27 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

prayed that the order of the ld. CIT(A) be set-a-side and that of the AO be

restored. The ld. DR further argued that the addition made in the total

income of the assessee were well related to the undisclosed income

unearthed during the search and seizure action initiated by the department. The addition is fully based on the evidences in the possession of the AO

which was collected at the time of search and seizure action and

consequent there upon addition is also well reasoned. The ld. DR

submitted that Shri Hanish Toshniwal in a statement recorded on

11.03.2015 admitted that the company is engaged in the accommodation

entry list. Again, he has after a period of 3 years on 08.02.2018 admitted

the same facts. The assessee has made the purchases from the two

companies and have not paid to the creditor's companies for more than 5

years and the purchases made are bogus purchases and the consequent

liability is also bogus. In the statement the key person himself has agreed

to write off this amount as income shows that the liability is not genuine and

is required to be tax in the year in which it is created. The contention of the

assessee that they have write off the amount lying as sundry creditors is

also against loss incurred and that is also not real written off. The ld. DR

heavily relied upon the findings of the ld. CIT(A) and the same is extracted

for the brevity: iii. ........ iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be
 strictly made on the basis of evidence found in the course of the 29 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 search, or other post-search material or information available with
 the AO which can be related to the evidence found, it does not
 mean that the assessment "can be arbitrary or made without any
 relevance or nexus with the seized material. Obviously an
 assessment has to be made under this Section only on the basis of
 seized material." v. In absence of any incriminating material, the completed
 assessment can be reiterated and the abated assessment or
 reassessment can be made. The word assess' in Section 153 A is
 relatable to abated proceedings (ie. those pending on the date of
 search) and the word 'reassess' to completed assessment
 proceedings. vi. Insofar as pending assessments are concerned, the jurisdiction to
 make the original assessment and the assessment under Section
 153A merges into one. Only one assessmentshall be made
 separately for each AY on the basis of the findings of the search
 and any other material existing or brought on the record of the AO.
 vii. Completed assessments can be interfered with by the LD. ASSESSING OFFICER while making the assessment under Section 153 A only on the basis of some incriminating material
 unearthed during the course of search or requisition of documents
 or undisclosed income or property discovered in the course of
 search which were not produced or not already disclosed or made
 known in the course of original assessment." 38. The present appeals concern AYs, 2002-03, 2005-06 and 2006-07.On
 the date of the search the said assessments already stood completed.
 Since no incriminating material was unearthed during the search, no
 additions could have been made to the income already assessed." (iv) In view of the aforesaid decision and the legal position, it is clear that section
153A brings into the purview of assessment both regular and undisclosed income
subsequent to action u/s 132 or section 132A upon invocation of section 153A .
The proviso to section 153A clearly mandates the AO to assess or reassess the
total income in respect of each assessment year falling within six assessment
years. The next proviso further mandates that any assessment or reassessment
in respect of any of those six years which are pending shall abate. Thus, once a
search takes place under Section 132 of the Act, notice under Section 153A(1) will have to be mandatorily issued to the person searched requiring him to file
returns for six AYs immediately preceding the previous year relevant to the AY in
which the search takes place. Although Section 153A does not say that additions
should be strictly made on the basis of evidence found in the course of the
search, or other post-search material or information available with the AO which
can be related to the evidence found, it does not mean that the assessment "can
be arbitrary or made without any relevance or nexus with the seized material. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta (v). course In the light of the above facts & legal position, it is observed that
during the of search in the case of the appellant, various assets/books of
accounts/documents were found & seized as per Annexure prepared during the
course of Search. The fact remains that the appellant has shown to have been
engaged in purchase with M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s Everlink
Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd for FY 2012-13 and as on the date of search in the case of
appellant, these companies were shown to be outstanding trade creditors in the
books of the appellant to the tune of Rs. 28,50,60,169/- and Rs. 24,76,72,484/-
respectively and that the aforesaid amount was outstanding as per the books for
around five years. The AO further observed that the Directorate of Income Tax
(Investigation), Kolkata had previously identified M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd to
be a jama-kharchi paper company floated for the sole purpose of providing
accommodation entries. The Directorate had also identified one Shri Hanish
Toshniwal to be the entry operator controlling this company. During the course of
statement of Sh. Hanish Toshniwal recorded on 11.03.2015 u/s 131 of the I.T.
Act by the D.D.I.T., Unit 1(2), Kolkata, Sh. Hanish Toshniwal, in his statement,
has admitted that he was the entry operator who was managing, inter alia, M/s
Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd (listed as company No. 187 in the statement) for the
purpose of providing accommodation entries to certain clients. (vi) Subsequently, during the course of search action in the case of the NM
Group on 08.02.2018, a survey u/s 133A was conducted at the given registered
address of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. at 340, GT Road, Howrah, Kolkata
and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. at 77, Netaji Subhash Road, 5th Floor, Room
No. 5A, Kolkata. The survey team did not find the existence of the aforesaid
companies at the given registered address, and therefore the survey
authorization was returned unexecuted. Simultaneously another survey team
conducted survey at the business premises occupied by Shri Hanish Toshniwal
and recorded his statement. In the said statement, Shri Hanish Toshniwal re-
iterated his stand that M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. andM/s Everlink Vyapaar
Pvt. Ltd. are shell companies and that he has utilized the above companies to
provide accommodation entries to the NM Group. The relevant part of the
statement is reproduced at page no. 5 of the assessment order. In view of the
aforesaid statement, the AO held that the appellant has taken accommodation
entry in the garb of bogus purchase and has shown the aforesaid companies to
be one of the bogus sundry creditors. (vii)/During the course of search on 08.02.2018, Shri Manoj Kumar, the key
individual of the NM Group was confronted with the above mentioned evidences
and was asked to provide his clarification on the matter regarding the existence
and identity of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd.
In response, Shri Manoj Kumar stated that he had entered into sale-purchase of
agro commodities with one Shri. Roopchandji of Bikaner, and that this person
Shri Roopchandji traded on behalf of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s
Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. Shri Manoj Kumar did not offer any explanation on the
existence or otherwise of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink 31 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. in Kolkata though he was confronted with the same. Also from
the statements of Sh. Amit Gidra, the main accountant of the Group, the AO
observed that the appellant company was indulged in circular trading and Kolkata
based companies are also part of such practice. (viii) Further the fact also remains that during the course of post-search
proceedings, when asked about the genuineness of purchases shown to have
been made from M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt.
Ltd., Shri Manoj Kumar stated on oath that since the amounts due to be paid to
the aforesaid two companies have remained outstanding in their books of
accounts for over 05 years, he is voluntarily willing to write-back on account of
cessation of liability owed by the NM Group concerns to M/s Kalyani Suppliers
Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. and considers such ceased liability
as the income of the NM Group concerns for the F.Y. 2017-18 and 2018-19. (ix) It is observed that the evidences gathered during search indicate that M/s
Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. were non-existent
at the registered address at the time of survey and that Sh. Hanish Toshniwal
has
claimed to have used this company to provide accommodation entries to certain
clients including NM Group. Further the fact also remains that the appellant has
voluntarily acceded to write-back the liabilities of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd
and consider the liabilities owed to this company by the NM Group concerns as
incomes for the F.Y. 2017-18 and 2018-19. (x) Thus, it is observed that in support of its assumption of jurisdiction under
section U/s 153 A of the IT Act 1961, the AO not only placed reliance on the
Statements of the accommodation entry provider namely Shri Hanish Toshniwal,
the Director in the aforesaid companies who categorically admitted of having
engaged in the business of providing accommodation entries to various parties
including the appellant but also of the main accountant of the group Shri Amit
Gidra of the business group recorded on oath u/s 132(4) and also on the basis of
Survey conducted in the case of the aforesaid trade creditors namely M/s Kalyani
Suppliers Pvt. Ltd and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. who were found non-
existent at the registered address at the time of survey conducted at their
registered addresses during the course of search in the case of the appellant
group. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the AO was of a firm belief
that the transaction reflected in regular books or documents did not represent the
true state of affairs of the appellant firm. (xi) In search assessment, any undisclosed income, which can be ultimately be
added, is only to the extent of any unrecorded assets/material found or any
incriminating documents found as representing undisclosed income earned as
held by the Hon'ble ITAT, Kolkata in the case of ACIT Circle3(2) Kolkata Vs. M/s
Mani Square Limited, Kolkata No.58/Kolkatta/2019. very recently on 6th
August,2020 in ITA 32 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta (xii) In the case of MGF Automobiles Ltd. Vs ACIT (ITAT Delhi) ITA Nos. 4212 &
 4213/DEL/2011 dt. 28/06/2013, the issue whether statement recorded u/s 132(4) can be considered as incriminating material was discussed as under: (xiii) It is also observed that the evidence does not mean only documentary
 evidence but the Statement recorded under section u/s 132(4) of the IT Act has
 also been judicially held as an important piece of evidence collected as a result
 of Search and Seizure Operation. In the present case, it is not only the
 statements of the Director of the appellant firm but also of the main accountant
 as well as Director of the Companies which admitted of providing
 accommodation entries to the appellant during the course of Survey in his case
 which was simultaneously conducted at the time of Search conducted at the
 premises of the appellant which were relied upon by the AO for framing the
 assessment in the case of the appellant. Therefore looking to the facts .of the
 case, I am of the view that there is no ambiguity in the assessment order of the
 AO in the case of the appellant for the year under consideration which is based
 on the incriminating material found during the course of Search. Accordingly, the
 Ground of Appeal No. 1 treated is dismissed. 35. So, in terms of these observations of the ld. CIT(A), ld. DR submitted

that the statement recorded during the course of search is an incriminating

material. But she has allowed the relief to the assessee on merits. But

based on the set of facts argument the ld. DR submitted that the amount

can be added as unexplained credit in the year of purchase and not in the

year of write off made. The ld. DR further submitted that the ld. CIT(A) has 33 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

not considered the observations of ITAT Kolkata bench in the case of ITO

Vs. M/s. C D Steel (P) Ltd. ITA no. 1360/Kol/2017 dated 29.08.18. The

relied upon extract is as under : 36. The ld. DR also submitted that ld. CIT(A) has stated that the AO had

applied a wrong section in the facts and circumstances of the case, then

the remedy would have been to correct the mistake of the AO by the

CIT(A), rather than deleting the entire addition. The ld. DR further relied on

the judgement of Swati Bajaj case relied upon paras are extracted here in

below : exception must be more than a mere apprehension or even a reasonable
suspicion of a litigant, it should exist as a matter of fact or to be cast upon a
definite inference of likelihood of prejudice flowing from the non-observance of
natural justice. 58. Therefore, the assessees have to specifically point out as to how they
were prejudiced on account of non-furnishing of the investigation report in its
entirety, failure to produce the persons from whom the statements were recorded
for being cross examined would cause prejudice to the assessee as nowhere in
the report the names of the assessees feature. The investigation report states
that the investigation has not commenced from the individuals but it has
commenced who had dealt with the penny stocks, concept of working
backwards. This is a very significant factor to be remembered. Therefore, there
has been absolute anonymity of the assessee in the process of investigation.
The endeavour of the department is to examine the "modus operandi" adopted
and in that process now seek to identify the assessees who have benefited on
account of such "modus operandi". Therefore, considering the factual scenario
no prejudice has been established to the assessee by not furnishing the
investigation report in its entirety nor making the persons available for cross
examination as admitted by the department in substantial number of cases the
assessees have not been specifically indicted by those persons from whom
statements have been recorded. 59. We are conscious of the fact that there may be exceptions however
nothing has been brought before us to show that there was an exception in any
of these appeals heard by us. In a few cases the assessee has been made
known of the statement of the Director of the penny stock company or the stock
broker, entry operator despite which those assessees could not make any
headway. While on this issue, we need to consider as to whether and under what
circumstances the right of cross examination can be demanded as a vested right.
In Kishanlal Agarwalla, the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court pointed out that
no natural justice requires that there should be a kind of formal cross
examination as it is a procedural justice, governed by the rules and regulations.
Further it was held that so long as the party charged has a fair and reasonable
opportunity would receive, comment and criticize the evidence, statements or
records on which the charges is being against him, the demand and tests of
natural justice are satisfied. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 60. In Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad 89 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the
right of hearing cannot include the right of cross examination and the right must
depend upon the circumstances of each case and must also depend on the
statute under which the allegations are being enquired into. 90. At this juncture it would be relevant to take note of the decision of the High
Court of Delhi in Suman Poddar vs. Income Tax Officer (ITO ) which was affirmed
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (2019) 112 taxman.com 330:- The assessee cannot be allowed to contend that the language employed
in the orders passed by the Commissioner under Section 263 does not
mention about how the assessments order was erroneous in so far as it is
prejudicial to the interest of revenue. These words or phrases are
contained in Section 263 of the Act. Merely because the Commissioner
has not used these words or phrases occurring in Section 263 will not
vitiate the assumption of jurisdiction. What is required to be seen is the
content of the order and the discussion and findings rendered by the
Commissioner. This is because the cardinal principle is that substance
over form has to be preferred. The Commissioner while issuing the show
cause notice had come to the prima facie conclusion that the assessing
officer did not conduct an enquiry as required to justify such prima facie
opinion. The Commissioner was required to set out as to why in his
opinion the enquiry by the assessing officer was not proper or insufficient.
On reading of the orders passed by the Commissioner under Section 263 41 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

which are the subject matter in ITAT No. 156 of 2021 and other similar
matters, it is seen that the Commissioner has disclosed to the assessee
as to why in his case the power under Section 263 has to be invoked. On
reading of the orders passed by the Commissioner, we find that the order
to be a reasoned order and there is nothing to conclude. The issue was
pre-decided. The assessments orders which are subject matter of Section
263 action shows that an enquiry has not been conducted by the
assessing officer in the manner it ought to have been conducted. We say
so because, the officers of the income tax department were fully aware of
the investigation which was done and the report been circulated and
therefore at that stage that the officer had to take note of such report to
put the assessee on notice and commenced an enquiry by calling upon
the assessee to justify the genuineness of the claim of LTCG/STCL. The
assessing officer turned a blind eye to the project investigation which was
carried out by the department. The assessing officer lost sight of the fact
that the enquiry did not commence from that of the assessee and more
particularly the name of the assessee did not feature in the investigation
report. Therefore the assessing officer was bound to cause an enquiry by
calling upon the assessee to explain and justify the genuineness of the
claim for exemption made by them. If the assesses has not established
the genuinity at the "other end" the assessing officer would have no other
operation except making the addition under Section 68 of the Act. We find
that in these cases the assessing officers missed an important point as to
what is the nature of enquiry which he is required to do. The assessing
officer merely went by the submission that the stock broker is a public
sector company. Unfortunately this is not the manner in which the enquiry
should have been conducted. The entire case before the department was
the genuinity of the claim for LTCG/STCL and the basis was unhealthy
and steep rise of the price of the shares of mostly the paper companies
though listed before the stock exchanges their shares were very rarely
traded and in the background of these facts the enquiry should have been
conducted by the assessing officer. Therefore we are of the clear view that
the assumption of jurisdiction under Section 263 of the Act by the
respective Commissioners was fully justified and are shown to be proper
exercise of power. The tribunal while interfering with the orders of the
Commissioner once again posed a wrong question to itself and failed to
approach the matter in the proper perspective considering the
backgrounds in which the power was invoked. The tribunal brushed aside
the surrounding circumstances which have led to such assessments or
orders under Section 263 . The manipulative practice adopted by the stock 42 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

brokers and entry operators was not even adverted to by the tribunal and
the entire matter was dealt with in a very superficial manner without
dwelling deep into the core of the issue. The tribunal being the last fact
finding authority was required to go deeper into the issue as the matter
have manifested large scale scam. Thus, the orders of the tribunal are not
only perfunctory but perverse as well. The exercise that was required to
be done by the tribunal is to consider the totality of the circumstances
because the transactions are shown to be very complex, the meeting of
minds of the "players" can never be established by direct evidence and
therefore the surrounding circumstances was required to be taken note of
by the tribunal which exercise has not been done. We have considered as
to whether in such an event, should the matter be remanded to the
tribunal for fresh consideration. We have held that there is no such
requirement and that is the Court is empowered to examine the findings
recorded by the assessing officer, or the CIT (A) to arrive at a conclusion.
The assessees have been harping upon the opinion rendered by the
financial experts, professionals in the said field the information which were
available in the media etc. All these opinions are at best suggestions to an
investor. The assessees cannot state that merely because an expert had
issued a buy call or there was news in the media that a particular shares
shows an upwards trend and it is good time for buying those shares. They
jumped into the fray the assessees are to be reminded of the doctrine of
"caveat emptor". The assessees cannot take shelter under the opinion
given by the experts as it is not the expert who has indulged in the
transaction but it is the assessee. Therefore by following such experts
advice if the assessee gets into an "web" it is for him to extricate himself
from the tangle and he cannot reach out to the expert to bail him out. The
assessees cannot be heard to say that they had blindly followed advice of
a third party and made the investment. Selection of shares to be
purchased is a very complex issue, it requires personal knowledge and
expertise as the investment is not in a mutual fund. None of the assessees
before us have shown to have to made any risk analysis before making
their investment in a "penny stock". If according to them they have blindly
taken a decision to invest in insignificant companies they having done so
at their own peril have to face the consequences. Thus, the conduct of the
assessees before us probabilities the stand taken by the revenue, rightly
the mind of the assessee as an investor was taken note to deny the claim
for exemption. It is in this background that the human probabilities would
assume significance. As observed earlier the doctrine of preponderance of
probabilities could very well be applied in cases like the present one. We 43 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

say human probabilities to be the relevant factor as on account of the fact
that the assessees are of individuals or Hindu Undivided Families and the
trading has been done in the name of the individual assessee or by the
Karta of the HUF. None of the assessee before us have been shown to
big time investor. This is evident from the income details of the assessee
which has been culled out by the respective assessing officers. Assuming
that the assessee is a regular investor as was submitted to us by the
learned advocates for the assessees that in any manner cannot improve
the situation as the claim for LTCG has been only restricted to the shares
which were purchased and sold by the assessees in penny stocks
companies. Therefore merely because the assessee had invested in other
blue chit companies had earned profit or incurred Joss cannot validate the
tainted transactions. It has been established by the department that the
rise of the prices of the shares was artificially done by the adopting
manipulative practices. Consequently whatever resultant benefits which
accrue from out of such manipulative practices are also to be treated as
tainted. However, the assessee had opportunity to prove that there was no
manipulation at the other end and whatever gains the assessee has
reaped was not tainted. This has not been proved or established by any of
the assessee before us. Therefore, the assessing officers were well
justified in coming to a conclusion that the so called explanation offered by
the assessee was not to their satisfaction. Thus, the assessee having not
proved the genuineness of the claim, the creditworthiness of the
companies in which they had invested and the identity of the persons to
whom the transactions were done, have to necessarily fail. In such factual
scenario, the Assessing Officers as well as the CIT(A) have adopted an
inferential process which we find to be a process which would be followed
by a reasonable and prudent person. The Assessing Officers and the
CIT(A) have culled out proximate facts in each of the cases, took into
consideration the surrounding circumstances which came to light after the
investigation, assessed the conduct of the assessee, took note of the
proximity of the time between the buy and sale operations and also the
sudden and steep rise of the price of the shares of the companies when
the general market trend was admittedly recessive and thereafter arrived
at a conclusion which in our opinion is a proper conclusion and in the
absence of any satisfactory explanation by the assessee, the Assessing
Officers were bound to make addition under Section 68 of the Act. 100. It was argued by the learned Advocates for the assesses that the
clients are ordinary people who have made meagre investments and they 44 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

cannot be branded as scamsters when big players in the market have
been left scot free and in certain other cases, the big players who were
also branded as scammers were allowed to avail the benefit of the Vivad
Se Viswas Scheme. In fact, similar argument was advanced when we
heard the applications filed by the revenue to condone the delay in filing in
some of the present appeals. The argument on behalf of the assessee
was that on account of not filing the appeals by the revenue within the
period of limitation, their vested right to avail the benefit of the Vivad Se
Viswas Scheme was taken away. We have rejected such an argument
firstly by holding that there is no vested right for an assessee to come
under the Scheme and this finding was rendered by us after examining the
provisions of the V.S.V. Act, secondly we have held that cases cannot be
decided based on hypothesis nor can the Court read the mind of the
assessee that in the event, the revenue had filed appeal on time, the
assessee may have availed the benefit under the V.S.V. Scheme. In fact,
we find that the Comptroller and Auditor General has also severely
commented upon the action taken by the Income Tax Department on such
issues and that no uniform procedure had been followed by the various
Income Tax Officers and in certain cases the assessments were not even
reopened. Therefore, merely because in certain cases, appeals were
preferred within the relevant time enabling, those assessees to avail the
benefit of the V.S.V. Scheme can in no manner advance the case of the
assessees before us. As has been argued before us by the learned Senior
Standing Counsels, in the chain of events, there are three main person
who are involved, the first of which is the entry operator who is said to
have managed the overall scam as the entry operator controls several
paper companies which have been utilized for routing the cash. The
operator is also in control of some penny stock companies whose shares
are listed on recognized stock exchanges, It is true that "penny stock" is
not an offensive word or comes with a stigma. Penny stock is a stock
which trades at a relatively low prices and market capitals. These stocks
are highly speculative and they are categorized as high risk stocks largely
due to lack of liquidity. Furthermore, the shares of the penny stock are
closely held as the general public is not interested in these stocks due to
the poor financials of the listed companies. It is for such reasons the entry
operators are said to have chosen these penny stocks. In certain cases
before us it has been established that the promoters/ Directors of the
penny stock companies are also involved and they allowed the entry
operators to manage the affairs of the company in return of a commission
paid to them. The third set of persons involved, are the share brokers. As 45 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

submitted by Mr. S.N. Surana, learned Senior Counsel, the brokers are
required to comply with very stringent KYC norms before registering any
entity as their client. The SEBI Regulations cast very onerous
responsibilities on the share brokers. However, the trend appears that the
penny stock companies have no business or very little business got
involved with the stock brokers and it is stated that the share brokers
receive commission for allowing the paper entities to trade through their
terminal and some of the brokers have also stated to be performing the
trading activity themselves on behalf of the paper companies. The report
states as to why the department has taken an investigation as a project,
largely due to huge syndicate of the ent operators, share brokers and
money launderers. The report states that Kolkata is a very distinctive
place among the cities of India, so far as the accommodation entry is
concerned and action has been initiated against more than thirty share
broking entities and more than twenty entry operators working in Kolkata.
The report states that almost everyone has accepted its activity,
participation in providing accommodation entry of LTCG. The investigation
has also indicated as to how the scheme of merger is being misused.
Though the scheme of merger is approved by the Company Court, in the
event it is found that such merger was done/ obtained by playing fraud,
the Company Court is empowered to revoke the order and it appears that
the Income Tax Department has not taken any steps in this regard to
approach the Company Court or the Tribunal with such a prayer. Thus, we
have no hesitation to hold that the orders passed by the CIT(A) affirming
the orders passed by the Assessing Officers as well as the orders passed
by CIT under Section 263 of the Act were proper and legal and the
Tribunal committed a serious error in reversing such decisions. Mr. Arif Ali,
learned Advocate appearing for the appellant in ITAT No. 44 of 2020
(Assessee-Gupta Agarwal) submitted that the facts which have been set
out in the memorandum of appeal, is wholly incorrect and does not pertain
to the assessee- Gupta Agarwal. We have gone through the
memorandum of appeal as well as the substantial questions of law
suggested by the revenue and find the same to be not relatable to the
assessee. This is on account of non-application of mind both by the
Income Tax Department as well as the Officers of the Ministry of Law and
Justice. More often we have stated that due care and caution has to be taken
when appeals are drafted and filed before this Court and this is not the
first case which has come up before us where the pleadings were
irrelevant to the facts of the case. However, the substantial questions of 46 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 law suggested by the revenue is with regard to the correctness of the
 order of the Tribunal in interfering with the order of the CIT(A) who
 affirmed the order of the Assessing Officer making the addition under Section 68 of the Act. Furthermore, we have to note that more than 90
 appeals were allowed by the Tribunal in a single order and the facts of the
 89 assessees were not noted by the Tribunal. In any event, the assessee,
 Mr.Gupta was quite happy with the result and he made no attempt to
 request the Tribunal to note his facts which according to him may have
 been unique as was submitted before us. If the assessees could take
 shelter under an order passed by the Tribunal which has not discussed
 even the basic facts of the assessees' case, we are not inclined to non-
 suit the revenue on the ground that some of the questions suggested in
 ITAT No. 44 of 2020 may not be relatable to the assessee- Gupta
 Agarwal. Therefore, though the grounds are not relatable to the assessee,
 this will not vitiate the appeal in its entirety as the core is the substantial
 questions of law which is required to be decided. Based on the above observation ld. DR stated that cross examination is not

assessee's right and is required to be dismissed. 37. As regards the contention that the income has already been offered

u/s. 41(1) of the Act the ld. DR relied on the judgement of Hon'ble SC in the

case of British Paints Limited [ reported at 54 Taxman 49 ] and stated the

income is to be taxed in the correct year. The relevant observation is as

under: 38. Based on these set of arguments ld. DR supported the order of the ld. Assessing officer. 39. Per contra, the ld. AR submitted that in compliance to notice under section 153A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the assessee submitted its

return of income on e-filling portal on 22.08.2018. The AO completed the

assessment under section 153A r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act vide order dated

31.12.2019 by making addition of Rs. 53,27,32,653/ u/s. 68 of the Act being

the amount shown as sundry creditors on account of alleged bogus

transactions. The ld. AR of the assessee also filed a detailed paper book

containing 315 pages wherein he has submitted all the relied upon

evidence such as submission made before lower authorities, statement

recorded and relied upon, inspectors report, Extract from the ROC website

about the active status of the companies with whom the transactions are

recorded extract of the bank transactions, legal notice received from the

creditors and relied upon judicial decisions. He also submitted his

averments in the written submission which reads as under: 53,82,460/- (PB-1-4). The assessment u/s. 143(3) was made on 01.03.2016 at
 total income of Rs. 79,31,475/- (PB-38-45). 2. A search was conducted on 08.02.2018 in the case of "NM Group,
 Sriganganagar" to which the assessee belongs. In response to notice u/s 153A assessee filed the return on 22.08.2018 declaring total income of
 Rs.53,82,460/- (PB 57-60). 3. During assessment proceedings AO observed that the assessee has shown to
 have engaged in purchase with M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Iverlink
 Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. As on the date of search M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and
 M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. were shown to he outstanding trade creditors in
 the books of assessee for Rs.28,50,60,169/- and Rs.24,76,72,484/-
 respectively. 4. The AO made enquiries in respect of these two companies and made certain
 observations reproduced at Pg 2 to 13 of the assessment order. On the basis of
 these observations, assessee was issued a show cause notice as to why the
 purchases shown to have been made from both these two parties amounting to
 Rs.53,27,32,653/- should not be considered as bogus and added back to the
 total income. In response to same assessee filed detailed reply vide letter dt.
 13.12.2019 (PB 133-148) countering cach of the observation made by AO but
 the AO reproduced only part of the reply at Pg 14 & 15 of the assessment order
 and rejected the explanation of assessee by giving the following observations: The statement recorded u/s 132(4) has evidentiary value. (vii) Harish Toshniwal has claborately explained in detail the entire modus
 operandi of such orchestrated transactions. The assessee has now
 submitted the confirmation of the present directors who are not those
 who knew the orchestrated transactions. (viii) The request of cross-examination was denied on the grounds that the
 assessee asked for the same only on 13.12.2019 when the case was
 getting barred by limitation and that right of cross examination is not an
 absolute right. The AO quoted various case laws in support of the same. (ix) The fact of the matter also become clear when in the statement Shri Amit
 Gidra, Accountant of the assessee group explained that the assessee
 has been indulging in such bogus transactions where actual purchase or
 sales does not take place and only bills are raised. (x) It is hard to believe that when these are the real transaction why the
 assessee would write back the same in the form of cessation of the
 liability. Normal business prudence does not allow any business entity to
 write back such huge amount vis a vis turnover had these been genuine
 transactions. (xi) The assessee could not substantiate the above mentioned purchase
 transactions and voluntarily offered to write back these transactions for
 FY 2017-18 and 2018-19. 5. The AO, thereafter, concluded that the transactions entered into by the
 assessee with these companies are bogus transactions entered into for the
 purpose of artificially inflating the expenses and thereby reducing the taxable
 income. These are simply bogus transactions. These companies have provided
 accommodation entries to the assessee and therefore the said accommodation
 entry bills are bogus and are to be treated as unexplained income u/s 68 of the
 Income tax Act. Accordingly, the amount of Rs.53,27,32,653/- (28,50,60,169+
 24,76,72,484) is hereby added u/s 68 of the Act to be taxed u/s 115BBE . 6. Before Ld. CIT(A) assessee challenged the validity of the order passed u/s
 153A of the Act and the addition made by AO u/s 68 of the Act. The Ld. CIT(A)
 vide letter dt. 16.09.2021 (PB 25A-27A) called for remand report. The remand
 report dt. 02.11.2021 submitted by AO to Ld. CIT(A) is at PB 28A-37A. The
 assessee's reply in response to remand report is at PB 38A-40A. 7. On legality, the Ld. CIT(A) at Para 5.2(xiii), Pg 24 held that the evidence does
 not mean only documentary evidence but the statement recorded u/s 132(4) of
 the IT Act has also been judicially held as an important piece of evidence
 collected as a result of search and seizure operation. In the present case, it is
 not only the statement of Director of the appellant firm but also of the main
 accountant as well as Director of the companies which admitted of providing
 accommodation entries to the appellant during the course of survey in his case
 which was simultaneously conducted at the time of search conducted at the
 premises of the appellant which were relied upon by the AO for framing the
 assessment in the case of appellant. Thus, there is no ambiguity in the 50 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 assessment order of AO in the case of the appellant for the year under
 consideration which is based on the incriminating material found during the
 course of search. On merits, the Ld. CIT(A) after considering the submission of
 assessee and giving the findings at Para 6.4(i) to (x), Pg 46-53 deleted the
 addition made by the AO. Submission: 8. Next, we find that, the assessment has been framed under s. 1534,
 consequent to the search action. The scope and ambit of s. 1534 is well defined. This Court, in CIT vs. Kabul
 Chawla (2015) 281 CTR (Del) 45: (2015) 126 DTR (Del) 130 (2016) 380 ITR
 573 (Del): 2015 SCC Online Del 11554, concerning the scope of assessment
 under s. 1534, has laid out and summarized the legal position after taking into
 account the earlier decisions of this Court as well as the decisions of other High
 Courts and Tribunals. In the said case, it was held that the existence of
 incriminating material found during the course of the search is a sine qua non
 for making additions pursuant to a search and seizure operation. In the event no
 incriminating material is found during search, no addition could be made in
 respect of the assessments that had become final. Revenue's case is hinged on
 the statement of Mr. Jindal, which according to them is the incriminating
 material discovered during the search action. This statement certainly has the
 evidentiary value and relevance as contemplated under the Explanation to s.
 132(4) of the Act. However, this statement cannot, on a standalone basis,
 without reference to any other material discovered during search and seizure
 operations, empower the 40 to frame the block assessment

 PCTT Vs. Vikas Telecom Ltd. (2022) 209 DTR 373 (Del) (IIC) (PB 309-311)
 The head note of this decision reads as under: PCIT Vs. Best Infrastructure India Pvt. Ltd. (2017) 397 ITR 82/ 159 DTR 257
 (Del.) (IIC) The head note of this decision reads as under However, in the present case, from the statement of Amit Gidra/ Ilanish
 Toshniwal it cannot be concluded that the transaction with M/s Kalyani Suppliers
 Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapar Pvt. Ltd. are not genuine nor these statements
 are relevant. Hence, this decision is not applicable on facts more particularly
 when in the subsequent decisions of various High Courts including Delhi High 53 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 Court it has been held that statement u/s 132(4) cannot be considered to be
 incriminating material. The another decision of Ilon'ble ITAT, Kolkata referred by
 CIT(A) rather supports the case of assessee. Hence, the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in
 upholding the order passed by AO u/s 153A of the Act. The Ld. D/R in his written
 synopsis at Pg 4 has not countered the argument of assessee by placing any
 material evidence on record. Therefore, the CO of assessee be allowed. 3. On merit the Ld. CIT(A) has rightly deleted the addition made by AO after
 referring to the statement of Hanish Toshniwal, Amit Gidra and various
 assumptions made by him after giving the detailed findings on the various
 contentions raised by the assessee. The same is summarised as under: Further in assessment proceedings, the assessee filed the detailed explanation
 as to why the statement of Hanish Toshniwal cannot be relied upon. However,
 the AO reproduced only part of the reply in the assessment order. From perusal
 of these statements it is apparent that they are forced statement and not given by
 free will and therefore these statements cannot be the basis for treating the
 transaction made by the assessee from these companies as non-genuine. The
 fact that statement of Hanish Toshniwal dt.11.03.2015 is forced one is evident
 from the following table: Similarly, Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of CIT Vs. Sunita Dhadda (2018) 101
 CCH 277 has dismissed the SLP filed against the High Court order where it is
 held that as per principle of natural justice it was obligatory on the part of AO to
 provide all the materials to the assessee which was being used against her and
 also an opportunity to cross-examine the person whose statement was relied
 upon by the AO. Therefore, the contention of Ld. D/R in his written synopsis that
 right of cross examination is not an absolute right or is mandatory is against the
 law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. (c) The AO has sought to rely upon the Q. No.28 & 29 of statement of Shri Amit
 Gidra, Accountant of the NM Group dated 08.02.2018 (PB 112-113, 125-127).
 The relevant question and answer is reproduced as under:- is as under:- 4.13 के 42 तू का करता हूँ और 9व3भ8न गरे को है । .14 कृपया क कNप और पू

 उ$तर क6पनी बीकानेर कD है । इसका पण
 ू पता अभी बात नहHं है । . 15 ROC कD website पर कNयाणी सFलायस ा.3ल.का Address - 340, GT Road,
 Havwada (Kolkata) जाजी न. वष 2015-2016 मB एन. एम एल कD करो कD creditor दH 58 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

और M/s Nandlal Naresh Kumar a 20 da awal a creditor of rafas any and ad for
day and जोधपुर बीकानेर कD हो सकती है । इसमB आपका है ? उ$तर मेरा उका क6पनीका क9व राज>थान के Qबल= के वारा Registered office या Address
मेरH जानकारH मB नहHं है । .16 कृपया बताने का करे क क6पनी के 3लए आपका कस Aयि त

सीता और आपने इस क6पनी के कस माल 9वXय कया शारे उ$तर - उ त क6पनी को मालव
करने हे तु पासी का राज>थान मB ि>थत गोदाम कD जानकारH मझ
 ु े गुड जवानी नहHं है । दे ख कर
बता दं ग
 ू ा। %ी का >थातीपाइल मझ
 ु े अभी याद नहHं है । Statement dt.09.02.2018 (PB 200-207)

 .15 आपसे पीछे बयान के दौरान बार-बार कहा क आप M/s Kalyani Suppliers ills
Vouchers gig करे इरा क6पनी से संबं/धत Bill >तत
 ु करने के 3लये आपको बार बार यी दान
कया गया M/s Kalyani Suppliers के Bills >तत
 ु नहH कर पाये। आपने भी कर चुकD है क
M/s Kalyani Suppliers & Bills Voucher इसी तधान 168, New Dhan Mandi,
Sriganganagar पर हH रखे जाते है , फर भी आप Qबना >तत
 ु करने मB असफल से तो यह योग
माना जाये क आपका M/s Kalyani Suppliers साथ कसी भी कार का कोई लेन-दे न हुआ हH
नहHं? कृपया अपना >प टHकरण दे वर

उ$तर - मेरH फम[ का Books of records मेरे त ठान shop no. 168, New Dhan
Mandi, Sriganganagar पर कD सामा8यत रखा जाता है वष 2012-13 मB M/s kayani
Suppliers के साथ 9वचारH कई sale और purchase के Transition मेरH Books of
accounts मB खाता प8ना 52 पर Recorded है , Bill Book एवं Bill फाइल मेरH समझ मB नहHं
आ रहा, यहाँ मेरH दक
 ु ान मB Record दे खने पर कहHं रखी गई या यहाँ से कहHं चलH गई। राहH न
दB ग नहHं होने से संब/धत तो म' इतना हH कहना चाहूँगा क पव
 ू मB भी इस Firm का Accounts
Confirmation Form मB <दया है । इस क6पनी से उगने sale purchase दोन= Transition वष 
2012-13 मB कये हुए दोन= कD concern

क6पनी है । ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

421 कृपया \यान करके बतायB क आपने M/s Kalyani Suppliers से Agriculture
Commodity के अंतग त म

Purchase कया था और जो माल खरHदा था उनकD Delivery, Physically कहHं 3लया प]र
उ$तर- हमने M/s Kalyani Suppliers से ^वार सीड purchase कया था जब क भौ तक
Delivery के बारे मB ज तक मझ
 ु े पता है , हमने माल कD Delivery भौ तक Kप से नहHं 3लया था,
बिNक यह गाल M/s kayani Suppliers के

पास हH purchase के बाद रखा हुआ था और हमने बहH से कम 9वXय कया था। .20 कृपया बताये क आपके N.M Group कD Business Concern का M/s Everlink
Vyapar Pvt. Ltd. के साथ

कस कार के बंध है ? उ$तर- मेरा उपरो त क6पनी कृ9ष उ$पाद कय-9वXय का है अथा त इसरH
हमारे Aयापा]रक संबंध है । 4.30 M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. aM/s Everlink Vyapar Pvt. Ltd. के बारे मB
9वभाग को जाँच दHरान गया क दोन= क6पनी कोलकाता Based क6पनी है और %ी नी
तोशनीवाल जी इन क6पनी कD संचालक है <दनांक 08/02/2018 को 9वभाग कD काय वाहH इन
दोन= क6पनी पर ारं भ हुई जहाँ पर %ी हनीपतीनीवाल जी के बयान दज कये गये, जहाँ क इस
इस क6पनी मB अथा त M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd, aM/s Everlink Vyapar Pvt.
Ltd. के अंत कोई काय नहHं होता है । %ी हनीष तोशनीवाल जी ने यह भी >वीकार कया है क एक
एक Accommodation Entry Provider है और उ8होने M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd.
के अंतग त व M/s Everlink Vyapar Pvt. Ltd. के अंतग त M/s N.M. Group को
Accommodation Entry Provide कD है , जो क आपके Books of Accounts मB <दख रहH है ।
है । इस कार %ी हनी तोशनीवाल जी के बयान= से यह >प ट होता है Accommodation Entry
awa? Books of Accounts # wa Bogus Entry & amr M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt.
Ltd. andar a M/s Everlink Vyapar Pvt. Ltd. ara o Credit Entry Outstanding है यह
 य= Bogus Entry मानी जाये? कृपया इस संदभ मB अपना >प टHकरण पै? M/s Kalyani
Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. का N.M. Agro Food Product Pvt. Ltd. / Outstanding Balance
Rs. 28,50,60,169/- और Nand Lal Kamlesh Kumar Rs. 20,90,74,975/- है । इसी
 कार M/s Everlink Vypar Pvt. Ltd. का Outstanding Balance, N.M. Agro Food 60 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

Product Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 24,76,72,484/- हH और Nand Lal Kamlesh Kumar Rs.
36,64,06,907/- है । कृपया >प ट करे ? उ$तर उपरो त शन के जवाब मB मेरे त ठान= कD 9व3भ8न फम[ मB दोन= क6प नय= से Gwar
कय व 9वXय कया गया है जो क मेरH Books of Accounts मB दज है , िजसकD पहले भी
Account Confirmation, Copy आपके 9वभाग को दH जा चक
 ु D है , दोन= क6प नय= से मेरा कोई
भी नमद
 ु या Bank के मा\यम से लेन-दे न नहHं हुआ, मेरH 9व3भ8न फम[ ने गाल का कय व 9वXय
कया हुआ है . यह कहना गलत होगा क मेरH फम[ ने उ त दो क6प नय= से कोई Bogus Entry
लH है । मेरा Sales Tax मB भी Registration है , िजसमB भी संबं/धत वष कD Xय-9वXय मB
दशा या हुआ है , तो यह कहना सरा सर गलत होगा क म' Entry लH है । Statement dt.21.03.2018 (PB 179)

 .स. कृपया बताएं क आपकD Aयवसा यक फम मB नंदलाल नरे ष कुमार व एन.एम. ए,ो फूट
 ा. 3ल. को एनर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. को भग
 ु तान करना शेष है . इस संबंध आयकर 9वभाग वारा
उपरो त क6पनी के registered office 5th Floor, Room No. 5A, 77NS Road,
Kolkata-700001, Room No. 405 & 405A, 4th Floor, 4 Fairlie place पर आयकर
9वभाग के वारा सव_ धारा 133ए के तहत काय वाहH करने पर उपरो त पत= कसी क6पनी का
ऑ फस नहHं चल रहा है इस संबंध मB आप या कहना चाहते है । उ$तर म' यहाँ >पaट करना चाहत हूँ क एवर3लक ा. 3ल. को दे य रा/ध ^वार कD खरHद/QबकD से
संबं/धत है । एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. को अभी भग
 ु तान करना पेश है , कारण िजन फम[ को हमने
गाल बेवा उनसे हमB भी भग
 ु तान ाFत नहHं हुआ था, अतः liquidity कD सम>या है । एवर3लंक
Aयापार ा. 3ल. से लगातार भग
 ु तान का तकाजा आ रहा है , तथा लHगल नो<टस भी ाFत हुआ
है । अभी हम इस क6पनी के एडवोकेट से भग
 ु तान संबं/धत समझौते का भी यास कर रहे है । साथ हH म' यहाँ यह >पaट करना चाहता हूँ क जहाँ तक मB कNयाणी सFलायस ा. 3ल. एवं मB
एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. के non existence कD बात है , म' यहाँ यह कहना चाहता हूँ क इन
क6प नय= के साथ हमारे ^वार खरHद-QबकD के transactions %ी Kपच8O सोष नवाल के
माफ त हुए ह', इस बारे मB म' पव
 ू मB सव के दौरान भी बता चक
 ु ा है । हम Kपच8O तोष नवाल से
हH deal करते ह', क6पनी के ऑ फस पर वा>तव मB जाकर उर= verify करने का काय नहHं करते
है । ये पते Kपच8O तोष नवाल ने कैसे <दए है , यह वहH बता सकता है । ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 Statement dt.07.05.2018 (PB 181)

 . 3 NM Group, Srigangangar मB सव काय वाहH के दौरान यह पाया गय क आपकD ,ुप
फम /क6पनी वारा मB एयर3लक Aयापार ा. 3ल. को sundry creditors के Kप मB न6न कार से
दषा या गया है । इस संबंध मB आपसे <दनाक 21.03.2018 को इसका >पaटHकरण मांगा था िजसमB आप वारा
यह कहा गया क उपरो त क6पनी मB existence है और इसको उपरो त रा3श दे ना बताया है । इस
संबंध मB आयकर वारा उपरो त क6पनी के registered office 5th Floor, Room No. SA,
77NS Road, Kolkata-700001, Room No. 405 & 405A, 4th Floor, 4 Fairlie place,
Kolkata पर आयकर 9वभाग के वारा सव_ धारा 133ए के तहत काय वाहH करने पर उपरो त पते
पर कसी क6पनी का ऑफस नहHं चल रहा है । अतः आपसे पन
 ु ः पछ
 ू ा जा रहा है क इन
फम /क6प नय= मB दये गये creditors के बारे मB >प>टHकरण दB । उ$तर- म' एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. के एडवोकेट के पव
 ू मB भग
 ु तान के समाजे व लHगल नो<टस
 ाFत हुए थे, िजसके संकर मB हमने उ8हB व>तुि>थ त सक अवगत कराया था। इसके पaचात
उ8ह=ने हमB लHगल केस करने कD धमकD दH थी िजसके संबंध मB हमने उ8हB भग
 ु तान बाबत कुछ
installment provide करने हे तु 3लखा था, िजसके संबंध मB अभी 9पछले सFताह हH इनके
एडवोकेट का पc ाFत हुआ था क उ8ह=ने एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. लाइट के matter वा9पस कर
कर <दए है और अब उनके matters नहHं डील कर रहे है । अतः आपसे उनसे डायरे ट स6पक 
करे । हम उससे डायरे ट स6पक करने कD को3शश कर रहे ह', पर8तु उनसे स6पक नहHं हो पा रहा
है । य<द इनसे हमारा अगले दो तीन माह मB भी स6पक नहHं हो पाता है , तो एवर3लंक Aयापार
 ा.3ल. को दोनो फम[ वारा दे य रा3श को Qबस वष 2018-2019 मB write back कर दे गB। भ9व य
मB जब भी एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल. को भग
 ु तान कया जाएगा, उस समय भग
 ु तान रा3श का
deduction claim or लेगB। जहाँ तक इस क6पनी के कलकता ि>थत होने पर कोई ऑ फस नहHं
होने का सवाल है , उस संबध मB यहाँ यह >प ट करना चाहता हूँ क इन क6प नय= के साथ हमारे
transactions %ी Kपच8O शोषके माफ त हुए है । हम Kपच8O चोष नवाल से हH deal करते है 62 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 क6पनी के ऑ फस पर वा>तव मB जाकर उसे verify करने का काय नहHं करते ह'। ये पते Kपच8O
 तोष नवाल ने कैसे <दए है , यह वहH बता सकता है । From the above statement it can be noted that Sh. Manoj Gupta was extensibly
 questioned about the transaction with M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s
 Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. However he time and again stated that these
 transactions of M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt.
 Ltd. are genuine which was carried out by his various concerns through Roop
 Chand Maheshwari with their office at Bikaner. He also explained the manner in
 which the transactions were carried out. However only to avoid litigation with the
 department he offered to include the unpaid amount of these parties u/s 41(1) in
 AY 2018-19 & 2019-20 subject to the rider that as and when payment is made
 to these parties then in that year the deduction be allowed. Thus, Ground No.5
 & 6 raised by the department is misplaced. Hence on the basis of statements and survey/ enquiry report alone, without
 reference to any incriminating material discovered during search, addition made
 by AO is rightly deleted by Ld. CIT(A). (e) The AO has made the addition of Rs.57,74,81,882/- by treating the credit in the
 name of both these companies as unexplained cash credits u/s 68 of the Act. Section 68 reads as under:- From the plain reading of the provisions of section 68 , it is clear that to invoke
 the deeming provisions of section 68 , 'any sum' must be found credited in the
 books of the assessee. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Shri H.H. Rama
 Varma Vs. CIT (1991) 187 ITR 308 (SC) (PB 217-219) held that 'any sum'
 means 'sum of money'. Therefore, a sum of money i.e. cash or cheque must be
 received by the assessee during the previous year. There is a difference
 between a credit representing a liability payable by the assessee and a credit
 representing monies received from another person- the former not being
 covered in the provisions of section 68 . In case no money is received by the
 assessee, section 68 cannot be invoked. This view is also supported by the Hon'ble Supreme Court by dismissing the
 SLP filed by the department against the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
 case of PCIT Vs. M/s VNG Packaging Pvt. Ltd. ITA 693/2019 dt. 26.07.2019 63 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

(PB 212-216). The High Court in the said order affirmed the interpretation of section 68 given by the ITAT and held as under:- ... Having examined the impugned orders of the PCIT and the ITAT, and having
considered the submissions of learned counsel for the Revenue, this Court is of
the view that in the facts and circumstances of the case on hand, the
interpretation placed by the ITAT on Section 68 of the Act, its reasoning and
conclusions in the impugned order are consistent with the legal position and
cannot be said to be suffering from any legal infirmity." Reliance is also placed on the decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi Bench in case of Manoj Aggarwal Vs. DCIT (2008) 113 ITD 0377 (PB 220-223)
"For example, in the case of credit purchases, the account of the supplier is
credited with the amount payable. In such a case, where the purchase is
allowed as expenditure, it may not be possible for the Assessing Officer to
again call upon the assessee to prove the nature and source amount credited
for the reason that the purchase itself was allowed as expenditure only on being
satisfied that it was a genuine purchase on credit. Implicitly, the nature and
source of the amount credited has also to be taken as having been explained
satisfactorily. Another possible argument can be that in such a case, the
amount credited is not a cash credit in the sense that some monies have been
received by the assessee, but the credit represents a mere liability payable by
the assessee in future. Under accounting principles, a liability can only be
brought into account by making a credit entry in the books of account in favour
of the person to whom the money is payable. Thus, there is marked difference
between a credit representing a liability payable by the assessee and a credit
representing monies received from another person. It is because of this
distinction, a liability for purchase which has been credited in the account of the
supplier cannot be added under s. 68 of the Act, more so when the purchase
has been accepted as genuine and a deduction therefor has been allowed." In the present case, no sum of money has been received by the assessee as is
evident from the copy of account in the books of assessee (PB 184-187). The
outstanding credit in the account of these parties is against purchase of the
goods. Therefore addition made by invoking the provisions of section 68 is
legally not tenable. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta (f) The AO has also observed that the two companies i.e. M/s Kalyani Suppliers
 Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. are non-existent. The assessee
 vide letter dated 13.12.2019 (PB 85-94) has provided the MCA master data
 containing complete profile of these companies where these companies are
 considered active compliant company. The same is at PB 188-189. Both these
 companies are grain merchant and commission agent operating from Bikaner.
 Copy of TIN/CST registration information is at PB 190-191. These companies
 have raised the bill on the assessee from Bikaner office. Only the registered
 office was at Kolkata. The department has not carried out survey at Bikaner
 address. Therefore simply because no person was found at the registered office
 of these companies at the given address, no adverse inference can be drawn.
 The assessee has also produced audited financial statements of these
 companies, sales bills as well as balance confirmation received from the
 Directors of the companies (PB 224-227). The assessee has also received legal
 notice from these companies for payment of dues (PB 192-198). Hence it
 cannot be said that the companies are non-existent. (g) The assessee is maintaining day to day books of accounts along with the
 stock register. The accounts are duly audited. All the purchase and sales
 including that from/ to M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapar
 Pvt. Ltd. are supported by the bills and vouchers. In search no document/
 evidence was found which proves that the purchases made by the assessee
 from two companies are bogus. In assessment assessee has filed the copies of
 purchase bills and quantitative details. The quantitative tally of the goods dealt
 by the assessee as submitted along with tax audit report is reproduced as under (i) It is further submitted that the assessee has already written back the amount
 of these 2 creditors as cessation of trading liability and offered them to tax u/s
 41(1) in AY 2018-19 & 2019-20 and the same is reflected at PB 65 & 73. Copies 67 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 of return are at PB 46-75. The amounts were written back on bonafide belief
 that as and when the payment is made, the same would be allowed as
 deduction. The assessment for AY 2018-19 has been completed by the same
 AO u/s 143(3) and the income offered by way of cessation of trading liability has
 been accepted by him (PB 76-84). Thus, taxing the same amount again in AY
 2013-14 would amount to double taxation which is not tenable. Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Laxmipat Singhania Vs. Commissioner of
 Income-tax (SC ) (1969) 72 ITR 291 held that "It is a fundamental rule of the law
 of taxation that, unless otherwise expressly provided, income cannot be taxed
 twice." Reliance is also placed on the decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Chennai Bench
 in case of Popular Foundations (P) Ltd. Vs. ACIT (2022) 209 DTR 18. The head
 note of the decision reads as under:- ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 Thereafter, assessment for AY 2014-15 was also made u/s 143(3) on 31.12.2016 (PB
 235-249) i.e. after the survey was carried out at Hanish Toshniwal on 11.03.2015 but
 no adverse inference on the basis of his statement was taken. In AY 2015-16 assessee surrendered unaccounted profit of Rs.1 crore in consequence
 of survey u/s 133A dt. 08.10.2014. Thereafter the assessment was made u/s 143(3) on
 30.12.2017 (PB 254-264). In the assessment a specific query at Q. No.8 for
 outstanding creditors was raised vide notice dt. 18.01.2017 (PB 251). The AO after
 examining the reply did not take any adverse inference on the same. On this date also
 the statement recorded in survey carried out at Hanish Toshniwal on 11.03.2015 was
 with the department. However, the credits outstanding in respect of these two
 companies were accepted as no adverse evidence for the same was found. Hence, on the basis of alleged test of human probability and surrounding
 circumstances which are rather in favour of assessee, no adverse inference can be
 drawn. Thus, Ground No.4 raised by the department is misplaced. In view of above, grounds of the department be dismissed and CO of assessee
 be allowed. 40. In addition to the above written arguments the ld. AR of the assessee

argued that this being the search period assessment, the addition can only

be made based on the basis of incrementing material placed on record

which is missing in this case. Merely the survey conducted at some other

party's places and they were not found on that address the whole

transaction under taken in the normal course of business cannot be

considered as bogus or void on that reasons that the parties are not

available at the address. For that there were various reasons, such as party

has shifted may have closed the business and that the transaction done in

2012-13 and survey of that party not found in 2018, that cannot be a base 69 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

to make the addition. The original assessment already completed and the

copy of the assessment order placed on record. In that original quantum

assessment, proceedings the ld. AO raised various queries which were

replied based on the evidence called for additions on account of four

separate issues were made in that original quantum proceedings. Now in

the search related assessment in the absence of any incrementing material

no addition can be made on those completed assessments. The lower

authorities considered the statement recorded of third party considered as

incrementing material is not correct. Not only that the cross examination of

the parties whose statement are relied upon were never provided to the

assessee before relying on the same. The ld. CIT(A) has considered the

statement of Shri Hanish Toshniwal as incrementing material is incorrect. When the transaction entered into by the company with the parties whose

balance is lying in sundry creditors Shri Hanish Toshniwal was no way

involved in the affairs of the company and for that the ld. AR filed the form

no. DIR 2 for appointment and resignation of Shri Hanish Toshniwal in

these companies. Thus, when the transaction was executed, he has no

locus standing to comment on the transaction done with that company as

he was not director in that period. The assessee has undertaken with Shri

Roopchandji and he was dealing person and the assessee company has 70 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

acquired the material from him from Bikaner and these companies were

registered under the state value added tax for that address in Bikaner and

the status of the dealer was shown as active. The relevant proof has been

filed at page 226-227 of the assessee's paper book and the department

has not placed on record any contrary to this facts. The statement of

employee or a person who has no locus standing cannot be considered as

incrementing material, as the key person has never stated any single

statement that these transactions are not genuine. The statement of Shri

Hanish Toshniwal and Shri Amit Gidra are forced recording of the

statement and the content of that statements are incorrect facts. Not only

that Shri Amit Gidra is an employee from 2014 and has last 4 year working

whereas the transaction is done in the F.Y. 2012-13. The ld. AR of the

assessee also drawn our attention to question no. 29 appearing at page

178 of assessee's paper book. The same is extracted here in below: 41. It is evident that the name of the company given by him did not

include the name of the company with whom the transactions are

questioned, so his statement even though recorded not be applied as

factually incorrect. Therefore, even his averments are also incorrect on

facts. In the absence of allowing an opportunity to cross examine them the

addition cannot sustain. Not only that the key person of the assessee

company Shri Manoj Gupta nowhere in the statement accepted that the

transactions are not genuine. Not only that while replying on the address of

the company vide statement dated 08.02.2018 vide question no. 14 he has

stated that the company is of either from Bikaner or from Jodhpur and he

was not aware that these companies are of Kolkata based entities. The ld. AR in support of this contention filed the copy of the registration certificate

of Rajasthan state Vat Act . He also vide question no. 16 submitted that for

doing the purchase transaction he used to contact with Shri Roopchand

Maheshwari and he was looking after the godown of that company and

department has not done any enquiry on this aspect at that premises. In

the statement recorded on 09.02.2018 also submitted that the assessee

has many transactions with the company and related sales is also

executed. The ld. AR of the assessee drawn our attention to following chart 72 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 M/s Kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. The ld. AR submitted that when the department is not questioning

earlier transaction merely the amount is outstanding is considered as

bogus and that too by invoking of provision of section 68 . The

provision of section 68 did not allow the assessee to consider the part

transaction as genuine and part as not genuine with the same party. The AO has treated the purchases as bogus from these two companies

while at the same time accepted the sales/stock. Without purchases, sales

are not possible. When sales have been accepted as genuine, purchases

cannot be held as bogus. Such an addition on account of purchases while

at the same time accepting the trading results of the assessee is not

sustainable. For this purpose, ld. AR of the assessee relied on the

judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of PCIT Vs. Agson Global (P) Ltd. 210 DTR 225 the relied upon portion is as under : AR placed on record the recovery notices that has been issued by the

parties for payment of their dues itself proves that the amount is payable. In

all set of evidences merely some non-related person and that too were not

at the helm of the affairs of the either parties how can an addition be made

on that third person having no locus standing be bind to the assessee

company. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 43. Against the arguments of the ld. DR, ld. AR of the assessee further

submitted that the assessee has not refrained the AO in the earlier

proceedings to do the physical enquiry and in that enquiry conducted now

no adverse material placed on record by the revenue. The address where

the enquiry conducted is also not at the correct address as per the MCA's

website. It is not duty of the assessee company to enforce the sundry

creditors to change the address as per provision of section 139A(5)(d) to

change the address on PAN data base. The law already takes care of such

failure and on that the assessee should not be given any type of

punishment. Not only that the transaction was done in 2012-2013 and

physical enquiries were conducted in 2018 then over a period of time the

company might have shifted their office and address. As regards the Swati

Bajaj case is not related to the Sundry creditors but it is related to Bogus

Long Term Capital gain scam. The fact of that case and this case are

totally different. There is no admission either by the company nor the

directors of the company about the transaction being not genuine not only

that no material is found in the search action so as to create doubt on these

transactions. As regards the surrender of amount under section 41(1) the

ld. AR of the assessee drawn out attention to question no. 3 of the

statement of Shri Manoj Kumar Gupta recorded on 07.05.2018. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

iz'u 03- NM Group, Sriganganagar esa lpZ dk;Zokgh ds nkSjku ;g ik;k x;k fd vkidh xzqi QeZ@dEiuh
}kjk eS-a ,ojfyad O;kikj izk- fy- dks sundary Creditors ds :i esa fuEu izdkj ls n'kkZ;k x;k gSA
 S. Name of Firm/Company Sundry Creditors
 No. (Amount)
 1 Suresh Kumar Gupta Prop. 36,84,06,907/- Nand Lal Naresh Kumar 2. NM Agro Food Product Pvt. 24,76,72,484/- Ltd. Total 61,60,79,391/- इस संबंध मB आपसे <दनांक 21.03.2018 को इसक >प टHकरण मांगा था िजसमB आप वारा
यह कहा गया क | उपरो त क6पनी existence मB है और इसको उपरो त राशी दे ना बताया है ।
इस संबंध आयकर 9वभाग वारा उपरो त क6पनी के registered office 5th Floor, Room No.
5A, 77 NS Road, Kolkata-700001,oa Room No. 405 & 405A, 4th Floor, 4 Fairlie place,
Kolkata पर आयकर 9वभाग के वारा सव_ धारा 133ए के तहत काय वाहH करने पर उपरो त
 ु ः पछ
पत= कसी क6पनी का ऑ फस नहHं चल रहा है । अतः आपसे पन ू ा जा रहा है क इन
फम /क6प नय= मB दशा ये गये creditors के बारे मB >प टHकरण दB ।
mRrj मै. एवा3लक Aयापार ा.3ल. के एडवोकेट के पव
 ू मB भग
 ु तान के तकाजे व लHगल नो<टस
 ाFत हुए थे, िजसके संबंध मB | हमने उ8हB व>तुि>थ त से अवगत कराया था। इसके पaचात
उ8ह=ने हमB लHगल केस करने कD धमकD दH थी िजसके संबंध मB हमने उ8हB भग
 ु तान बाबत कुछ
installment provide करने हे तु 3लखा था, िजसके संबंध मB अभी 9पछले सFताह हH इनके |
एडवोकेट का पc ाFत हुआ था, िजसमB उ8ह=ने 3लखा था क उ8ह=ने एवर3लंक Aयापार ा. 3ल.
 लाइ8ट के matter okfil कर <दए है और अब उनके matters नहHं डील कर रहे ह'। अतः आप
उनसे डायरे ट स6पक करB । हम उनसे डायरे ट स6पक करने कD को3शश कर रहे ह', पर8तु उनसे
स6पक नहHं हो पा रहा है । य<द इनसे हमारा अगले दो-तीन माह मB भी स6पक नहHं हो पाता है ,
तो एवर3लंक Aयापार ा.3ल. को दोन= फम[ वारा दे य राशी को 9व$त वष 2018-19 मB write-
back कर दB गे। भ9व य मB जब भी एवर3लंक Aयापार ा.3ल. को भग
 ु तान कया जाएगा, उस
समय भग
 ु तान राशी का deduction claim कर लBगे। जहाँ तक इस क6पनी के कलक$ता ि>थत
होने पर कोई ऑ फस नहHं होने का सवाल है , उस | संबंध मB यहाँ यह >प ट करना चाहता हूँ क
इन क6प नय= के साथ हमारे transactions %ी Kपच8द तोशनीवाल के माफ त हुए ह'। हम
Kपच8O तोशनीवाल से हH deal करते ह' क6पनी के ऑ फस पर वा>तव मB जाकर उसे verify
करने का काय नहHं करते ह'। ये पते Kपच8द तोशनीवाल ने कैसे <दए ह', यह ogh बता सकता है।" 180A) in reply to question no 23 to 27 stated that he is working with NM
 Group since last 4 years. He further stated that on the outstanding
 balance of with M/s kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar
 Pvt. Ltd no interest has been paid. He has no knowledge about the
 transactions of purchase/sale made with these companies. This can be
 explain only by Shri Manoj Gupta/Shri Suresh Gupta. In reply to question
 no 29 he further explained that from some of the parties where the
 outstanding debit/credit balance is high, to maintain the credit limit, circular
 trading is done. However, in the list of parties with whom circular trading is
 done the name of M/s kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink
 Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd was not specified by him. From his statement it is clear
 that he was not an accountant of the group when transactions were made
 with M/s kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd.
 Further he has no where stated in his statement that the transactions
 made with these companies are not genuine. Thus his statement cannot
 be considered as incriminating material with reference to the addition
 made by the AO. 4. The statement of Manoj Gupta with reference to M/s kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd was recorded on different dates i.e.
 on 08.02.2018, 09.02.2018, 21.03.2018 and 07.05.2018 (PB-181A-223).
 In these statements he stated that trading transaction made with these
 companies are genuine transactions, that transactions with these
 companies were made through their office at Bikaner (PB-226-227), the
 transactions with these companies are verified by the department in earlier
 assessment proceedings and that there is no money paid/received to/from
 them and thus these are not accommodation entries (PB-205-207, Q.No.- 30). Still in reply to Q.No. -41 of statement dated 10.02.2018 (PB-214 215)
 considering that the search continued for 3 days admitted additional
 business income of Rs. 35cr. Thereafter in his statement dated
 21.03.2018, in reply to Q.No.- 8 with reference to additional business
 income of Rs. 35cr offered by him he clarified that the same is with
 reference to outstanding balance of M/s kalyani Suppliers Pvt. Ltd. and
 M/s Everlink Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd. to whom payment could not be made
 because of liquidity problem and the same would be return back in FY
 2017-18 against which after claiming the business expenditure/loss/bad
 debts he would pay the tax on the balance amount and whenever
 payment made to these companies the same would be claimed as
 deduction. Thus this statement of the Manoj Gupta is not an incriminating
 material with refrence to the addition made by the AO. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 5. It may be noted that assessee have also sold goods to these parties. The
 sales accepted by the AO (PB-267-268). The assessment for AY 2013-14
 to 2015-16 were completed u/s 143(3) where no adverse inference with
 reference to the outstanding balances of these companies were drawn.
 Thus, when this transaction has been accepted in the regular assessment
 proceedings and no incriminating material was found to suggest that the
 transactions made are not genuine, the addition made by the AO is not
 sustainable both in law and on facts. 46. We have considered the rival contentions, submissions and decisions

relied upon by both the parties. Undisputedly, the assessment for

assessment year 2013-14 was not pending on the date of search on

08.02.2018. The assessment was completed under section143(3) of the

Income Tax Act, 1961. Thus, the assessment for the assessment year

2013-14 cannot be considered as abated by virtue of search conducted

under section 132 on 08.02.2018. The assessing officer would reassess

the total income of the assessee as per the provisions of section 153A in

respect of assessment year 2013-14. As the assessee objected to the

proposed addition on the ground that during the search no incriminating

material indicating any undisclosed income for the year under consideration

was found, which is also apparently clear from the assessment order itself. Further it was contended since there is no incriminating material found

during the course of search and seizure action, therefore, the AO is not

empowered to make any addition in the total income of the assessee. It is a

settled position of law that there cannot be a review under the garb of 81 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

reassessment proceeding under section 153A of the Act. Therefore, the

proposed reassessment proceedings are absolutely in abuse of process of

law, illegal and bad in law. The provisions of section 153A cannot be

applied in respect of assessment which has already been completed unless

some incriminating material/information comes into the

possession/knowledge of the AO during the course of search proceedings. Since the assessment for the assessment year 2013-14 was not pending

as on the date of search and there is no incriminating material found or

seized during the course of search, then the AO is bound to reassess the

total income as it was assessed on the original return of income. Though

the AO is legally bound to assess or reassess the total income of six years

immediately preceding to the year of search, however, the assessments

which are pending on the date of search gets abated and the assessments

which were not pending on the date of search had attained the finality. Therefore, the addition over and above the assessed income cannot be

made de hors the incriminating material found at the time of search while

completing the assessment under section 153A of the Act. If there is no

incriminating material then the original assessment made can be reiterated

and no further addition is called for and an addition can only be made on

the basis of undisclosed income derived from material/documents seized 82 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

as a result of search. The completed assessment can be interfered or

disturbed by the AO while making the assessment under section 153A only

on the basis of some incriminating material unearthed during the course of

search and requisition of income disclosing undisclosed income not already

disclosed or made known in the course of original assessment. Therefore,

in the absence of any incriminating material found or seized during the

course of search and seizure proceedings, the additions made by the AO

during the course of reassessment under section 153A of the Act are

without jurisdiction and liable to be deleted. In support of his contention the

Id. A/R has relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of

Kabul Chawla, 380 ITR 573 (Delhi) and submitted that Hon'ble High Court

has held that in case of completed assessment not abated by virtue of

search under section 132 of the Act in the absence of any incriminating

material, the same can be reiterated and, therefore, no addition could have

been made to the income already assessed. 47. Here in this case though the ld. CIT(A) categorically hold a view that

except a statement recorded u/s. 132(4) no other seized material is relied

upon by the AO while making the addition. The relevant finding is extracted

here in below : The ld. AR of the assessee submitted that the department heavily relied

upon the statement of Shri Amit Gidra and Shri Hanish Toshniwal. Shri

Amit Gidra was not an employee of the company in the year which the

transaction took place and Shri Hanish Toshnwal has no locus standi in the

company as he become the director subsequent to the year in which

transaction took place. Thus, the persons whose statement relied upon are

not at the help of the affairs of the company and they being not having any

locus standing their statement cannot be considered as binding to the

assessee. Not only that these statements are mere allegation not proved

with any cogent evidence unearth during the search. Thus, the ld. AR

relying on the following judicial ruling submitted that the statement cannot

be considered as incrementing material and addition based merely on that

statement is liable to be deleted and in support of his contentions he relied 84 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

upon the judgment of PCIT(Central) & Ors Vs. Anand Kumar Jain (HUF) &

ORS. (2021 432 ITR 0384 (Del)(HC) where in the Hon'ble Delhi High Court

has observed as under: 132(4) of the Act However, this statement cannot, on a standalone basis, without
 reference to any other material discovered during search and seizure operations,
 empower the AO to frame the block assessment. This Court in Principal CIT vs
 Best Intrastructure (India) (P) Ltd (2017) 159 DTR (Del) 257 (2017) 397 ITR 82
 (Del) 2017 SCC OnLine Del 95911 has inter alia held that: ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 27. It is also necessary to mention that the aforesaid interpretation of
 s. 132(4) of the Act must be read with the Explanation to s. 132(4) of the
 Act which expressly provides that the scope of examination under s.
 132(4) of the All is not limited only to the books of accounts or other
 assets or material found during the search However, in the context of s.
 158BB(1) of the Act which expressly restricts the computation of
 undisclosed income to the evidence found during search, the statement
 recorded under s. 132(4) of the Act can form a basis for a block
 assessment only if such statement relates to any incriminating evidence of
 undisclosed income unearthed during search and cannot be the sole basis
 for making a block assessment 28. If the Revenue's contention that the block assessment can be framed
 only on the basis of a statement recorded under s. 132(4) is accepted, it
 would result in ignoring an important check on the power of the AO and
 would expose assessees to arbitrary assessments based only on the
 statements, which we are conscious are sometimes extracted by exerting
 undue influence or by coercion. Sometimes statements are recorded by
 officers in circumstances which can most charitably be described as
 oppressive and in most such cases, are subsequently retracted.
 Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that such statements, which are
 retracted subsequently, do not form the sole basis for computing
 undisclosed income of an assessee. 29. In CIT vs. Naresh Kumar Agarwal (2015) 122 DTR (AP) 339: (2014)
 369 ITR 171 (AP), a Division Bench of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh
 High Court held that a statement recorded under s. 132(4) of the Act
 which is retracted cannot constitute a basis for an order under s, 158BC of
 the Act. ()" 48. Thus, the ld. AR has submitted that when the Hon'ble Jurisdictional

High Court has held that the requirement of assessment or reassessment

under section 153A has to be read in the context of section 132 or 132 A of

the IT Act , in as much as in case nothing incriminating is found on account

of such search or requisition, then the question of reassessment of

concluded assessment does not arise, which would require mere reiteration

and it is only in the context of abated assessment under second proviso

which is required to be assessed. The underlined purpose of making

assessment of total income under section 153A of the Act is, therefore, to

assess income which was not disclosed or would not have been disclosed. The assessment or reassessment proceedings which have already been

completed and assessment orders have been passed determining the

assessee's total income and, such orders are subsisting at the time when

search or requisition is made, there is no question of any abated

assessment since no proceedings were pending. Therefore, the addition to 88 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

the income that has already been assessed will be made on the basis of

incriminating material. In the absence of any incriminating material, the

completed assessment can be reiterated and the abated assessment or

reassessment can be made. Thus the Id. AR has submitted that the AO

has made the addition in the assessment under section 153A whereby the

completed assessment has been disturbed without even referring to any

incriminating material found or seized during the course of search and

seizure under section 132 of the Act. The only basis of addition is the

inquiry during the search of the parties with the whom the assessee has

undertaken transaction were not found at the address and it has no

connection with the search proceedings of the assessee. Therefore, in the

absence of any incriminating material found or seized during the search of

the assessee, no addition can be made in the assessment framed under section 153A of the Act. 49. Based on the arguments and the rival submissions as well as the

relevant material on record it is not disputed that the assessment for the

assessment year 2013-14 was not pending on the date of search on

08.02.2018. The assessment was completed under section 143(3) of the

I.T. Act. Thus, the assessment for the assessment year 2013-14 was not 89 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

got abated by virtue of search under section 132 on 08.02.2018. Thus, the

AO would reassess the total income of the assessee as per the provisions

of section 153A in respect of the assessment year 2013-14. The

proceedings under section 153A in respect of the assessment year would

be in the nature of reassessment and not in the nature of assessment. It is

a settled proposition of law that the assessment or reassessment under section 153A in respect of the assessment years which have already been

completed and assessment orders have been passed determining the

assessee's total income, the addition to the income that has already been

assessed can be made only on the basis of incriminating material. In the

absence of any incriminating material the completed assessment can only

be reiterated. The provisions of section 132 read with section 153A of the

Act stipulate two types of situations - one where the assessment of any

assessment year falling within six assessment years is pending on the date

of initiation of search under section 132 or making of requisition under section 132A of the Act. Therefore, the assessment under section 153A in

respect of those assessment years which stand abated due to the reason

of pending on the date of initiation of search or requisition shall be the

original/first assessment. In the second category where the assessment or

reassessment has already been completed on the date of initiation of 90 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

search or making of requisition as the case may be, the assessment under section 153A would be in the nature of reassessment. The Hon'ble Delhi

High Court in the case of CIT vs. Kabul Chawla while analyzing the

provisions of section 153A read with section 132 of the Act has observed in

para 37 and 38 as under : iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be strictly made
 on the basis of evidence found in the course of the search, or other post-
 search material or information available with the AO which can be related to
 the evidence found, it does not mean that the assessment "can be arbitrary
 or made without any relevance or nexus with the seized material. Obviously
 an assessment has to be made under this Section only on the basis of
 seized material." v. In absence of any incriminating material, the completed assessment can be
 reiterated and the abated assessment or reassessment can be made. The
 word 'assess' in Section 153 A is relatable to abated proceedings (i.e. those
 pending on the date of search) and the word 'reassess' to completed
 assessment proceedings. vi. Insofar as pending assessments are concerned, the jurisdiction to make the
 original assessment and the assessment under Section 153A merges into
 one. Only one assessment shall be made. separately for each AY on the 91 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 basis of the findings of the search and any other material existing or brought
 on the record of the AO. vii. Completed assessments can be interfered with by the AO while making the
 assessment under Section 153 A only on the basis of some incriminating
 material unearthed during the course of search or requisition of documents
 or undisclosed income or property discovered in the course of search which
 were not produced or not already disclosed or made known in the course of
 original assessment. Conclusion 38. The present appeals concern AYS, 2002-03, 2005-06 and 2006-07.On the
 date of the search the said assessments already stood completed. Since no
 incriminating material was unearthed during the search, no additions could have
 been made to the income already assessed." 50. Thus, following the view of the Hon'ble High Court that in the absence

of any incriminating material, the completed assessment can be reiterated

and the abated assessment or reassessment can be made. The Hon'ble

High Court has also referred the term used in section 153A as "assess" which is relatable to abated proceedings and the word "reassess" related to

completed assessment proceedings. Therefore, the completed

assessments can be interfered with by the AO while making the

assessment under section 153A only on the basis of some incriminating

material unearthed during the course of search or requisition of document

or undisclosed income or property discovered in the course of search which

were not produced or not already disclosed or made known in the course of

original assessment. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court has reiterated its view in 92 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

case of Principal CIT vs. Kurele Paper Mills (supra) in para 1 to 3 as under Consequently, it was held that the AO was not justified in invoking Section 68 of
 the Act for the purposes of making additions on account of share capital. 3. As far as the above facts are concerned, there is nothing shown to the court to
 persuade and hold that the above factual determination is perverse.
 Consequently, after considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, the
 Court is of the opinion that no substantial question of law arises in the impugned
 order of the ITAT which requires examination." The SLP filed by the revenue against the said decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court was
dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated 7th December, 2015. In a
subsequent decision, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Principal CIT vs.
Meeta Gutgutia has again analyzed this issue in para 55 to 71 as under : That question was, therefore, left open. As far as Chetan Das Lachman Das
(supra) is concerned, in para 11 of the decision it was observed: 58. In Kabul Chawla (supra), the Court discussed the decision in Filatex India
Ltd. (supra) as well as the above two decisions and observed as under: ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 59. In Kabul Chawla (supra), the Court referred to the decision of the Rajasthan
High Court in Jai Steel (India) v. Asstt. CIT [2013] 36 taxmann.com 523/219
Taxman 223. The said part of the decision in Kabul Chawla (supra) in paras 33
and 34 reads as under: 34. The argument of the Revenue that the AO was free to disturb income
 de hors the incriminating material while making assessment under Section
 153A of the Act was specifically rejected by the Court on the ground that it
 was "not borne out from the scheme of the said provision" which was in
 the context of search and/or requisition. The Court also explained the
 purport of the words "assess" and "reassess", which have been found at
 more than one place in Section 153A of the Act as under: iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be
 strictly made on the basis of evidence found in the course of the
 search, or other post-search material or information available with
 the AO which can be related to the evidence found, it does not
 mean that the assessment "can be arbitrary or made without any
 relevance or nexus with the seized material. Obviously an 96 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 assessment has to be made under this Section only on the basis of
 seized material." v. In absence of any incriminating material, the completed
 assessment can be reiterated and the abated assessment or
 reassessment can be made. The word 'assess' in Section 153 A is
 relatable to abated proceedings (i.e. those pending on the date of
 search) and the word 'reassess' to completed assessment
 proceedings. vi. Insofar as pending assessments are concerned, the jurisdiction to
 make the original assessment and the assessment under Section
 153A merges into one. Only one assessment shall be made
 separately for each AY on the basis of the findings of the search
 and any other material existing or brought on the record of the AO.
 vii. Completed assessments can be interfered with by the AO while
 making the assessment under Section 153 A only on the basis of
 some incriminating material unearthed during the course of search
 or requisition of documents or undisclosed income or property
 discovered in the course of search which were not produced or not
 already disclosed or made known in the course of original
 assessment." 61. It appears that a number of High Courts have concurred with the decision of
this Court in Kabul Chawla (supra) beginning with the Gujarat High Court in
Saumya Construction (P.) Ltd. (supra). There, a search and seizure operation
was carried out on 7th October, 2009 and an assessment came to be framed
under Section 143(3) read with Section 153A(1)(b) in determining the total
income of the Assessee of Rs. 14.5 crores against declared income of Rs. 3.44
crores. The ITAT deleted the additions on the ground that it was not based on
any incriminating material found during the course of the search in respect of
AYS under consideration i.e., AY 2006-07. The Gujarat High Court referred to the
decision in Kabul Chawla (supra), of the Rajasthan High Court in Jai Steel (India )
(supra) and one earlier decision of the Gujarat High Court itself. It explained in
para 15 and 16 as under: Sub-section (2) of section 153A of the Act provides that if any proceeding
or any order of assessment or reassessment made under sub-section (1)
is annulled in appeal or any other legal provision, then the assessment or
reassessment relating to any assessment year which had abated under
the second proviso would stand revived. The proviso thereto says that
such revival shall cease to have effect if such order of annulment is set
aside. Thus, any proceeding of assessment or reassessment falling within
the six assessment years prior to the search or requisition stands abated
and the total income of the assessee is required to be determined under section 153A of the Act. Similarly, sub-section (2) provides for revival of
any assessment or reassessment which stood abated, if any proceeding
or any order of assessment or reassessment made under section 153A of
the Act is annulled in appeal or any other proceeding. 16. Section 153A bears the heading "Assessment in case of search or
requisition". It is "well settled as held by the Supreme Court in a catena of
decisions that the heading or the Section Can be regarded as a key to the
interpretation of the operative portion of the section and if there is no
ambiguity in the language or if it is plain and clear, then the heading used
in the section strengthens that meaning. From the heading of section 153 .
the intention of the Legislature is clear, viz., to provide for assessment in
case of search and requisition. When the very purpose of the provision is
to make assessment In case of search or requisition, it goes without
saying that the assessment has to have relation to the search or
requisition, in other words, the assessment should connected With
something round during the search or requisition viz., incriminating
material which reveals undisclosed income. Thus, while in view of the
mandate of sub-section (1) of section 153A of the Act, in every czea
where there is a search or requisition, the Assessing Officer is obliged to
issue notice to such person to furnish returns of income for the six years
preceding the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which the
search is conducted or requisition is made, any addition' or disallowance
can be made only on the basis of material collected during the search or 98 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 requisition, in case no incriminating material is found, as held by the
 Rajasthan High Court in the case of Jal Steel (India) v. Asst . CIT (supra),
 the earlier assessment would have to be reiterated, in case where pending
 assessments have abated, the Assessing Officer can pass assessment
 orders for each of the six years determining the total income of the
 assessee which would include income declared in the returns, if any,
 furnished by the assessee as well as undisclosed income, if any,
 unearthed during the search or requisition. In case where a pending
 reassessment under section 147 of the Act has abated, needless to state
 that the scope and ambit of the assessment would include any order
 which the Assessing Officer could have passed under section 147 of the
 Act as well as under section 153A of the Act. ** ** 19. On behalf of the appellant, it has been contended that if any
 incriminating material is found, notwithstanding that in relation to the year
 under consideration, no incriminating material is found, it would be
 permissible to make additions and disallowance in respect of an the six
 assessment years. In the opinion of this court, the said contention does
 not merit acceptance, inasmuch as. the assessment in respect of each of
 the six assessment years is a separate and distinct assessment. Under section 153A of the Act, assessment has to be made in relation to the
 search or requisition, namely, in relation to material disclosed during the
 search or requisition. If in relation to any assessment year, no
 incriminating material is found, no addition or disallowance can be made in
 relation to that assessment year in exercise of powers under section 153A of the Act and the earlier assessment shall have to be reiterated. In this
 regard, this court is in complete agreement with the view adopted by the
 Rajasthan High Court in the case of Jai Steel (India) v. Asst . CIT (supra).
 Besides, as rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the respondent,
 the controversy involved in the present case stands concluded by the
 decision of this court In the case of CITV. Jayaben Ratilal Sorathia (supra)
 wherein it has been held that while it cannot be disputed that considering section 153A of the Act, the Assessing Officer can reopen and/or assess
 the return with respect to six preceding years; however, there must be
 some incriminating material available with the Assessing Officer with
 respect to the sale transactions in the particular assessment year.' 62. Subsequently, in Devangi alias Rupa (supra), another Bench of the Gujarat
High Court reiterated the above legal position following its earlier decision in
Saumya Construction (P.) Ltd. (supra) and of this Court in Kabul Chawla supra).
As far as Karnataka High Court is concerned, it has in IBC Knowledge Park (P.) Ltd. (supra) followed the decision of this Court in Kabul Chawla (supra) and held
that there had to be incriminating material qua each of the AYS in which
additions were sought to be made pursuant to search and seizure operation. The
Calcutta High Court in Salasar Stock Broking Ltd. (supra), too, followed the 99 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

decision of this Court in Kabul Chawla (supra). In Gurinder Singh Bawa (supra),
the Bombay High Court held that: 63. Even this Court has in Mahesh Kumar Gupta (supra) and Ram Avtar Verma (supra) followed the decision in Kabul Chawla (supra). The decision of this Court
in Kurele Paper Mills (P.) Ltd. (supra) which was referred to in Kabul Chawla (supra) has been affirmed by the Supreme Court by the dismissal of the
Revenue's SLP on 7th December, 2015. The decision in Dayawanti Gupta 64. That brings us to the decision in Smt. Dayawanti Gupta (supra). As rightly
pointed out by Mr. Kaushik, learned counsel appearing for the Respondent, that
there are several distinguishing features in that case which makes its ratio
inapplicable to the facts of the present case. the first place, the Assessees there
were engaged in the business of Pan Masala and Gutkha etc. The answers given
to questions posed to the Assessee in the course of search and survey
proceedings in that case bring out the points of distinction. In the first place, it
was stated that the statement recorded was under Section 132(4) and not under Section 133A . It was a statement by the Assessee himself. In response to
question no. 7 whether all the purchases made by the family firms, were entered
in the regular books of account, the answer was: 65. Therefore, there was a clear admission by the Assessees in Smt. Dayawanti
Gupta (supra) there that they were not maintaining regular books of accounts
and the transactions were not recorded therein. 66. Further, in answer to Question No. 11, the Assessee in Smt. Dayawanti
Gupta (supra) was confronted with certain documents seized during the search.
The answer was categorical and reads thus: 67. By contrast, there is no such statement in the present case which can be said
to constitute an admission by the Assessee of a failure to record any transaction
in the accounts of the Assessee for the AYS in question. On the contrary, the
Assessee herein stated that, he is regularly maintaining the books of accounts.
The disclosure made in the sum of Rs. 1.10 crores was only for the year of
search and not for the earlier years. As already noticed, the books of accounts
maintained by the Assessee in the present case have been accepted by the AO.
In response to question No. 16 posed to Mr. Pawan Gadia, he stated that there
was no possibility of manipulation of the accounts. In Smt. Dayawanti
Gupta (supra), by contrast, there was a chart prepared confirming that there had
been a year-wise non-recording of transactions. In Smt. Dayawanti Gupta (supra), on the basis of material recovered during
search, the additions which were made for all the years whereas additions in the
present case were made by the AO only for AY 2004-05 and not any of the other
years. Even the additions made for AYS 2004-05 were subsequently deleted by
the CIT (A), which order was affirmed by the ITAT. Even the Revenue has
challenged only two of such deletions in ITA No. 306/2017. 68. In para 23 of the decision in Smt. Dayawanti Gupta (supra), it was observed
as under: 69. What weighed with the Court in the above decision was the "habitual
concealing of income and indulging in clandestine operations" and that a person
indulging in such activities "can hardly be accepted to maintain meticulous books 101 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

 or records for long." These factors are absent in the present case. There was no
 justification at all for the AO to proceed on surmises and estimates without there
 being any incriminating material qua the AY for which he sought to make
 additions of franchisee commission. 70. The above distinguishing factors in Smt. Dayawanti Gupta (supra), therefore,
 do not detract from the settled legal position in Kabul Chawla (supra) which has
 been followed not only by this Court in its subsequent decisions but also by
 several other High Courts. 71. For all of the aforementioned reasons, the Court is of the view that the ITAT
 was justified in holding that the invocation of Section 153A by the Revenue for
 the AYS 2000-01 to 2003-04 was without any legal basis as there was no
 incriminating material qua each of those AYS." 51. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court has concurred with the view as taken in

case of Kabul Chawla (supra) as well as the decision of Hon'ble

Jurisdictional High Court in the case of M/s. Jai Steel India Ltd. vs. ACIT (supra). Even on the issue of addition made by the AO in the proceedings

under section 153A in respect of the assessment year which was already

completed on the date of search, the Hon'ble High Court has held that in

the absence of any material which was subsequently unearthed during the

search and was not already available to the AO, the additions made by the

AO on account of security deposits were rightly deleted by the Id. CIT (A). The relevant observations of the Hon'ble High Court in case of Principal

CIT vs. Meeta Gutgutia (supra) are in para 53 as under : 52. Thus, the essential corollary of these decisions is that no addition can

be made in the proceedings under section 153A in respect of the

assessments which were completed prior to the date of search except

based on some incriminating material unearthed during the search which

was not already available to the AO. It is pertinent to note that the SLP filed

by the revenue against the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Principal CIT vs. Meeta Gutgutia was dismissed vide order dated 2nd July,

2018. There are series of decisions on this issue including the decision of

Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in case of M/s. Jal Steel India vs. ACIT (supra) wherein the Hon'ble High Court has held in para 23 to 30 as under : The relevant extract of the said judgment reads as under: 29. The argument of the counsel for the appellant if taken to its logical end
would mean that even in cases where the appeal arising out of the
completed assessment has been decided by the CIT(A), ITAT and the
High Court, on a notice issued under Section 153A of the Act, the AO
would have power to undo what has been concluded up to the High Court.
Any interpretation which leads to such conclusion has to be repelled
and/or avoided as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of K.P.
Varghese (supra). ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 30. Consequently, it is held that it is not open for the assessee to seek
 deduction or claim expenditure which has not been claimed in the original
 assessment, which assessment already stands completed, only because
 a assessment under Section 153A of the Act in pursuance of search or
 requisition is required to be made." 53. In this regard, we are of the view that no final orders have been

passed so far by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgments cited by the

Id. DR. Therefore, the principle of "ratio descendi" are not applicable with

regard to the aforementioned cases. Therefore, we are of the view that in

the absence of any order by Hon'ble Supreme Court, the decision of

Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Jai Steel Ltd. vs. ACIT , 88

DTR 1 (Raj.), PCIT vs. Smt. Daksha Jain, DB IT No. 125/2017 are binding

on us. Further, we are also fortified with the decision in the case of CIT vs.

Continental Warehousing Corporation (2015) 64 taxmann.com 34 (SC),

PCIT vs. Devi Dass Garg (2020) 114 taxmann.com. 552 (SC). Accordingly,

in the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the binding

precedents on this issue and SLP filed by the revenue is not decided by

Hon'ble Supreme Court, we based on the binding nature of judgment hold

that the additions made by the AO while passing the assessment order

under section 153A for the assessment year 2012-13 are not sustainable. We found force in the arguments of the ld. AR of the assessee and also 108 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

convince with the findings of the ld. CIT(A) who has after considering the

facts on record taken a considered view that the looking to the facts of the

case on technical ground, he has considered the appeal of the assessee

and before giving his findings he has called for the remand report also and

the equal chance were given to revenue place their case. The ld. DR

appearing on the behalf of the revenue has merely relied on the

investigation done at the time of search simultaneous survey conducted in

the investor company. In all these processes we have not seen any

reasons as to why and how the order of the ld. CIT(A) is not correct. There

is no admission of either party of any undisclosed income. As the ld. CIT(A)

has after considering the detailed arguments of both the parties clearly

taken a view that there is no incrementing material, no addition can be

made for the assessment which are already completed after making the

proper enquiries by the AO, and those assessment cannot be allowed to

again reframed merely based on the search and that too without any fresh

evidence. Merely the surveys conducted parties are not available after 8

years it is not the fault of the assessee and without any fresh material

unearthed during search no fresh addition can be made on the issue which

are already settled. Even, the ld. CIT(A) has based on the arguments of the

assessee followed the jurisdictional High Court decision and Tribunals 109 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

orders and even this co-ordinate bench decision is also binding on us in the

absence of any contrary judgement. 54. The addition made by the AO is neither based on any single loose

paper found/seized nor any statement recorded during the course of search

conducted in the case of the appellant or of the person sitting at the help of

the affairs which could be treated incriminating as is evident from the

assessment order and the remand report of the AO. Although, the ld. CIT(A) has considered the appeal of the assessee on merits but taken a

view that the statement recorded under section 132(4) of a person who are

not related parties or no locus standing can be termed as incrementing

material is incorrect based on the findings and observations of this case the

cross objection raised by the assessee is allowed as there is no

incrementing material placed on record while framing the assessment

merely the statement of third parties who have not locus standi cannot be

considered as incrementing when there is no corresponding admission by

the assessee. In terms of this observations the cross-objection number

04/JP/2022 raised by the assessee is allowed. ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta 55. Since, we have based on our detailed finding taken a view that no

addition could have been made in the case of the assessee based on the

fact that there was no incrementing material found in the search for the

completed assessment and thus we have considered the CO of the

assessee on technical ground holding that in the absence of corroborative

evidence to support the addition the completed assessment cannot be

reassessed. As we have considered the cross objection of the assessee on

technical grounds the various grounds taken by the revenue on merits

become infructuous and based on these observations the appeal of the

revenue is dismissed. 56. In the result the appeal of the revenue in ITA No. 54/JP/2022 is

dismissed. 57. The fact of the case in ITA No. 55/JP/2022 and CO No. 03/JP/2022

marched by the assessee is similar to the case in ITA No. 54/JP/2022 and

CO No. 04/JP/2022 we have heard both the parties and pursued the

material available on record. The bench noticed that the issue raised by the

assessee in this ITA No. 55/JP/2022 and CO No. 03/JP/2022 are equally

similar on facts and the grounds in ITA No. 54/JP/2022 and CO No.

04/JP/2022. Hence, the bench feels that the decision taken by us in ITA 111 ITA No. 54 & 55/JP/2022 & CO No. 4 & 3/JP/2022
 M/s N. M. Agrofood Products Pvt. Ltd. & Suresh Kumar Gupta

No. 55/JP/2022 and CO No. 03/JP/2022 for the Assessment Year 2013-14

shall apply mutatis mutandis in the case of CO No. 04/JP/2022 for

Assessment Year 2013-14 and in terms of these observations, ITA No.

54/JP/2022 raised by the revenue is dismissed and CO No. 04/JP/2022

raised by the assessee is allowed. The respective appeals are thus disposed off with above directions. Order pronounced in the open court on 24/08/2022. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzfs 'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: