TARA VITASTA GANJU, J.: 1,50,00,000/- from the Respondents as damages. 7. The learned Single Judge on 03.06.2016, passed an ex parte ad
 interim order restraining the Respondents from utilizing, exploiting,
 copying, transmitting, publishing, or releasing any confidential
 information and trade secrets of the Appellant. Directions were also
 issued appointing Local Commissioners to examine the Respondents'
 computer systems and emails in respect of documents originating
 from the Appellant. 8. The Former Employees filed written statements contesting the
 Appellant's claims, wherein it was argued that the Appellant had
 failed to disclose specific details of the alleged copyrighted works or
 trade secrets. The Former Employees contended that the information
 claimed as confidential was merely client data, which is not eligible
 for copyright protection. They further asserted that the suit was
 barred by Section 27 of the Contract Act, 1872 [hereinafter referred
 to as " Contract Act "] and violated the Former Employees'
 fundamental rights under Articles 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Indian
 Constitution, 1950 [hereinafter referred to as "Constitution"]. The
 Former Employees accused the Appellant of attempting to create a
 monopoly and prevent its former employees from seeking better
 prospects. They also claimed that the non-compete clauses in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 4 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 employment contracts were onerous and unenforceable. 9. In response, the Appellant relied on recovered Skype chats and
 emails between the Former Employees and, Respondent Nos. 9 to 11
 and Competing Company, and the reports of the Court appointed
 Commissioner, which allegedly found customer lists and emails of
 the Appellant on the Respondents' computer systems. The Appellant
 argued that it owned the copyright to the business data as per Section
 17 of the Copyright Act. Reliance was placed on ( i) Burlington
 Home Shopping Pvt. Ltd. v. Rajnish Chibber & Anr1 ; ( ii) Diljeet
 Titus, Advocate v. Alfred A. Adebare & Ors2 ; and, (iii) Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. & Ors. v. Owners & Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune Express &
 Ors.3 . 10. An Application under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC for rejection of
 the plaint was filed by Respondents No.3 and 5, therein contending
 that the Appellant had not disclosed any specific copyrighted work
 or confidential information, and that the non-compete clause was
 violative of Section 27 of the Contract Act. Impugned Judgment 11. The learned Single Judge examined the Appellant's claims under
 three main heads: copyright infringement, breach of confidentiality
 clauses and enforcement of non-compete clause. 12. The learned Single Judge found that the Appellant's pleadings 1 1995 (35) DRJ 335 2 (2006) 130 DLT 330 3 (2006) 3 SCC 100 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 5 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 regarding copyright infringement were vague and lacked specific
 details about the works in which copyright was claimed. The learned
 Single Judge analysed whether a list of customers/clients with their
 contact information could be considered a copyrightable work and
 concluded that such a list does not meet the criteria for copyright
 protection. It was held that, the Appellant failed to demonstrate the
 required level of skill, judgment, and creativity in compiling the list.
 Moreover, the Appellant did not disclose the identity of the author,
 which is essential for claiming copyright ownership. 13. On the issue of confidentiality, the learned Single Judge found the
 Appellant's pleadings vague. The learned Single Judge noted that the
 Appellant failed to specify what information was confidential, how
 it differed from general industry knowledge, and what steps were
 taken to maintain its secrecy beyond including confidentiality clauses
 in employment contracts. The learned Single Judge emphasized that
 without specific details, any injunction granted would be
 unenforceable. 14. The learned Single Judge delved into the legal protection of
 confidential information, noting that while India has obligations
 under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights
 (TRIPS) Agreement to protect trade secrets, it has not enacted
 specific legislation for this purpose. Although, Indian courts have
 followed the English approach of protecting confidential information
 under both common law and equity, even in the absence of a contract. 15. The learned Single Judge observed that customer lists in the logistics Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 6 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 and freight forwarding business cannot be automatically deemed
 confidential. The learned Single Judge reasoned that such
 information is often readily available in the public domain, and
 competitors would naturally be aware of businesses requiring freight
 forwarding services. It was held that for a customer list to qualify as
 confidential information or a trade secret, it must possess significant
 economic, business, or commercial value. 16. While relying on Star India Pvt. Ltd. v. Laxmiraj Seetharam Nayak
 & Anr.4 and Ambiance India (Private) Ltd. v. Naveen Jain5 , the
 learned Single Judge marked the parameters of what constitutes a
 trade secret. The learned Single Judge held that general knowledge
 or skills acquired during the course of employment cannot be
 classified as trade secrets. Instead, only formulae, technical know-
 how, or unique business methods unknown to others can fall under
 this category. 17. Thereafter, the learned Judge while relying on Supreme Court
 judgments, Niranjan Shankar Golikari v. Century Spinning &
 Manufacturing Co. Ltd.6 and Percept D'Mark (India) (P) Ltd. v.
 Zaheer Khan & Anr.7 , concluded that post-employment restrictions,
 as claimed by the Appellant, are void under Section 27 of the
 Contract Act. The learned Single Judge found that the plaint failed to
 disclose a cause of action that would justify the grant of injunction or 4 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 27 5 2005 SCC OnLine Del 367 6 1967 SCC OnLine SC 72 7 (2006) 4 SCC 227 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 7 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 damages. Contentions of the Appellant 18. The Appellant submits that the Former Employees resigned within a
 short span of about one month, and it claims that forensic
 examination of their laptop computers which were returned to
 Appellant revealed transfer of confidential information and trade
 secrets to third parties, including the Competing Company. The
 Appellant further alleges that the Respondents began soliciting the
 Appellant's business and diverting it. 19. The Appellant contended that the learned Single Judge should have
 confined itself to the averments made in the plaint alone while
 considering the Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC . The
 allegations in the plaint should have been presumed to be true, and
 the case should have proceeded on a demurrer. 20. The Appellant submits that learned Single Judge erred by
 considering the Respondents' defences and weighing the strengths
 and weaknesses of the case, which is contrary to settled law, at the
 stage of Order VII Rule 11 of CPC . Reliance is placed on D.
 Ramachandran v. R.V Janakiraman and Ors.8 and Kuldeep Singh
 Pathania v. Bikram Singh Jaryal9 . Contention of the Respondents 21. The Respondents contend that the learned Single Judge's order
 rejecting the plaint under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC is well-reasoned 8 (1999) 3 SCC 267 9 (2017) 5 SCC 345 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 8 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 and legally sound. The Respondents emphasize that the plaint's
 rejection was based on a thorough analysis of the pleadings and
 documents filed by the Appellant. 22. The Respondents submit that even if all averments in the plaint were
 assumed to be true, no cause of action would arise in favor of the
 Appellant/plaintiff. Reliance is placed on Dahiben v. Arvindbhai
 Kalyanji Bhanushali (GAJRA) Dead Through LRs & Ors.10 , Dr.Zubair UI Abidin & Ors v. Sameena Adidin @ Sameena Khan11 and I.T.C Ltd. v. Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal & Ors.12 . 23. The Respondents further submits regarding the confidentiality of
 customer lists, that such information in the logistics and freight
 forwarding business is generally available in the public domain.
 Reliance is placed on American Express Bank Ltd. v. Ms. Priya
 Puri13 to support the contention that customer details are not trade
 secrets or property. 24. The Respondents on the issue of non-compete clauses, highlighted
 judgement of Percept D'Mark Case, which held that post-
 employment termination restrictions are barred by Section 27 of the
 Contract Act. It is contended that this interpretation correctly
 balances the rights of employees with the interests of employers. 25. The Respondents further contend that the learned Single Judge's
 consideration of their written statements was not improper, as it was 10 2020 SCC OnLine SC 562 11 2014 SCC OnLine 3575 12 1998 2 SCC 170 13 2006 SCC OnLine Del 638 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 9 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 limited to addressing legal issues and did not delve into disputed
 facts. Reliance is placed on T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal &
 Anrs.14 to support the view that the Court can look beyond the plaint
 to determine if it is vexatious or meritless. 26. On behalf of Respondent No.11, it was contended that it was an
 independent commission agent who had previously undertaken
 printing projects for the Appellant and that the inter-se
 communication between them and Respondent No.1 was only with
 respect to design of logo, visiting cards and letter heads for the new
 company floated by Respondent No.1. In addition, it was contended
 that the reports of the local commissioner for investigation that was
 appointed by the learned Single Judge, did not yield any evidence of
 Appellant's confidential information or trade secrets being available
 with Respondent No.11. 27. Arguments were heard on behalf of Respondent No.1 to 9 and
 Respondent No.11, however, written submissions were only filed by
 the Appellant and Respondent Nos.1 to 9 in the present Appeal. Analysis 28. From an examination of the record, the following is evident: (iii) The Impugned Judgment rejects the plaint in its entirety and orders
 for a decree sheet to be drawn up, holding that the plaint does not
 disclose a cause of action on the basis of which the Plaintiff would
 be entitled to an injunction or damages. 29. Based on this Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC , the
 learned Single Judge proceeded to examine whether the Plaintiff can
 succeed in the case by proving the averments in the plaint and
 documents, without noticing the defences of the Respondents. The
 learned Single Judge examined the plaint/suit filed by the Appellant
 on the basis of: (i) various provision of the Copyright Act, 1957 ; (ii)
 confidentiality of list/compilation of customers/client details of
 contact persons and numbers; (iii) for permanent injunction/damages
 for breach of the employment contract of Former Employees. 30. It is settled law that post-termination restrictive covenants in an
 employment contract are void under Section 27 of the Indian
 Contract Act. The learned Single Judge, relying on the judgments of
 the Supreme Court in Niranjan Shankar Golikari case and Percept
 D'Mark Case held that since the Former Employees were no longer
 in the employment of the Appellant, the non-compete clause of their
 employment contract was void under Section 27 of the Contract Act
 and thus, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of injunction
 or damages for breach of contract by the Former Employees.
 Paragraphs 54, 55, 56 and 57 of the Impugned Judgement in this
 regard are reproduced below: [Emphasis is ours] 31. The non-compete clause as existed in the letter of
 appointment/employment contract [hereinafter referred to as
 "Contract"] of the Former Employees (which are pari materia with
 each other) and which have been signed by all the Former Employees
 state that they would not be allowed to go in direct competition of
 any business of the kind as is being undertaken by the Appellant or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 12 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 its group companies. Clause 13 of the Contract in this regard is
 reproduced below: 31.3 Clause 13 of the Contract does not permit Former Employees to carry
 on their trade or vocation in a similar/competing business and thus,
 is barred by the provisions of Section 27 of the Contract Act. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 13 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 Impugned Judgement in this regard, does not suffer from any
 infirmity. 32. The Supreme Court in Kuldeep Singh Pathania case has while
 dealing with the scope of inquiry under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC ,
 held that the scope of inquiry has to be limited to the pleadings of the
 Plaintiff and neither the written statement nor the averments in the
 Application under Order VII Rule 11(a) of CPC filed by Defendant
 can be considered in the following manner: 12. It is not necessary to load this judgment with other judgments
 dealing with this first principle of Order 7 Rule 11(a) of the Code.
 As held by this Court in Virender Nath Gautam v. Satpal Singh ,
 2007 (3) SCC 617 at para 52: (SCC p. 632)

 "52. The High Court, in our considered opinion, stepped
 into prohibited area of considering correctness of
 allegations and evidence in support of averments by
 entering into the merits of the case which would be
 permissible only at the stage of trial of the election petition
 and not at the stage of consideration whether the election
 petition was maintainable and dismissed the petition. The
 said action, therefore, cannot be upheld and the order
 deserves to be set aside." [Emphasis is ours] 33. The Respondents have relied on the judgement of the Supreme Court
 in Dahiben case to submit that if on a meaningful reading of the
 plaint, no cause of action is disclosed, the plaint is required to be
 dismissed under the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of CPC . The
 Supreme Court in Dahiben case while discussing this provision has
 held that the power conferred on a Court to terminate a civil action is
 a drastic one and the conditions enumerated under Order VII Rule 11
 of CPC are required to be strictly adhered to. It was further held that
 in examining the assertions made in the plaint, the Court is required
 to determine whether these are contrary to statutory law or judicial
 dicta and that the pleas taken by the Respondents in their written
 statement or the Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC is
 irrelevant. The relevant extract is below: [Emphasis is ours]

 33.1 The Supreme Court in Dahiben case while examining an Application
 under Order VII Rule 11 CPC , found that there was a delay of 5½
 years in filing the plaint, and held that the suit was barred by
 limitation and rejected under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC . However,
 the only provision that the plaint in the present case is stated to be
 barred by, is Section 27 of the Contract Act. This provision is not of
 such a nature as would constitute a bar so as to reject the entire plain
 as a whole. 34. We are unable to agree with the contention raised by the Respondents
 that on a meaningful reading of the plaint, no cause of action is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 16 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 disclosed. 35. The Appellant has pleaded in the plaint, more specifically in
 Paragraphs 63 to 75, that the Respondents had in their possession
 confidential information and trade secrets and that the Former
 Employees were trying to divert business and customers to the
 competitor Company/Respondent No.12 and that agents, business
 associates and clients of the Appellant abroad have been contacted
 by persons claiming to be employed by Respondent No.12. In fact,
 the Paragraphs 69 to 71 refers to Skype Chat of particular dates in
 relation to diversion of business by the Respondents. The relevant
 paragraphs of the plaint are extracted below: [Emphasis is ours] 36. The Appellant has made specific allegations in relation to inter se
 communications between Respondent No.1 and Respondent No.10
 dated 12.05.2016 in respect of the violation of the employment terms
 of the Former Employees. Paragraph 65 of the plaint refers to
 communications between 21.04.2016 and 22.04.2016 between
 Respondent No.1 and Respondent No.11 in relation to diversion of
 business of the Appellant/Company to Respondent No.12. While
 paragraph 69 of the plaint similarly refers to other communications
 between the Former Employees and the Respondents. 37. As stated above, the Appellant has set up a case that the Former
 Employees obtained and shared confidential data and also diverted
 the existing business of the Appellant, which they were handling to
 Respondent No.12. The claim of confidentiality and secrecy, was
 made by the Appellant on the basis of information, data and trade Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 19 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 secrets residing in the electronic devices (laptop, computers) which
 was recovered from forensic analysis conducted on the Former
 Employees computers. 38. The Appellant had placed on record extracts of these skype chats
 between the Respondents in support of its averments. In addition,
 documents were filed showing inter se communications between the
 Respondents during the period from 04.03.2015 to 19.05.2016 in
 support of the plaint. No discussions with respect to the examination
 of these skype chats or that these chats/documents do not show a
 cause of action in favour of the Appellant can be seen in the
 Impugned Judgment. 39. The Appellant has filed various documents, including emails, skype
 chat in support of his contentions and reliefs sought which have not
 been examined in the impugned order. Other than a finding on the
 examination of the skype chat as submitted by the Local
 Commissioner appointed by the Learned Single Judge, there is no
 averment in the Impugned Judgement with respect to the
 examination of documents attached with the plaint. 40. We are thus unable to agree with the findings of the learned Single
 Judge that the plaint does not disclose a cause of action. Although,
 some contentions in the plaint are generalised, it cannot be said on a
 demurrer that these do not reflect a cause of action so as to merit
 dismissal under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC . 41. As stated above, the Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC was only filed by two of the employees being Respondent Nos.3 and 5. It is apposite at this juncture to set out the prayers in the plaint of
 the Appellant which seek reliefs against all the Respondents as
 follows: 41.1 Prayers (a) to (d) above are in relation to all the Respondents while
 prayers (e) to (h) are qua Former Employees alone. Prayers (i) to (n)
 are for rendition of accounts, delivery up, damages, interest and
 costs, which are the consequential reliefs sought by the Appellant. 41.2 The Appellant has also sought in Prayer (g) of the plaint, handover
 of original computer resources and information as well as original
 RC of a Santro Car which belongs to the Appellant. This prayer is
 not barred by law The same is the case of prayers (h) and (i) of the
 plaint. Infact, the Application as filed by Respondent Nos.3 and 5
 does not aver to these prayers in the plaint at all. 42. The Supreme Court in Sejal Glass Limited v. Navilan Merchants
 Private Limited15 has held that Order VII Rule 11 of CPC refers to 15 (2018) 11 SCC 780 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 23 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 "a plaint" and that necessarily means the plaint as a whole. It has been
 held that it is only where a plaint as a whole does not disclose a cause
 of action, the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of CPC can be made
 applicable. It was further held that there is no provision in the CPC for rejection of a plaint in part. The relevant paragraphs of the said
 judgment are as follows: [Emphasis is ours]

 42.1 In the Sejal Glass Limited case the Supreme Court also held that
 where only a part or portion of the plaint is to be rejected, an
 Application under Order VI Rule 16 of CPC would apply and that
 part of the pleadings would be struck out which are unnecessary,
 frivolous, vexatious or otherwise abuse of the process of the Court.
 The relevant extract is set out below: It is clear that Order 6 Rule 16 would not apply in the facts
 of the present case. There is no plea or averment to the
 effect that, as against the Directors, pleadings should be
 struck out on the ground that they are unnecessary,
 scandalous, frivolous, vexatious or that they may
 otherwise tend to prejudice, embarrass or delay the fair
 trial of the suit or that it is otherwise an abuse of the process
 of the court." [Emphasis is ours] 43. An examination of the plaint reveals that the Former Employees all
 resigned from the services of the Appellant during the period from
 09.05.2016 to 25.05.2016 and they stopped attending office.
 Respondent Nos.1, 4, 5 and 6 belonged to the Sales Department of
 the Appellant while Respondent Nos.2 and 3 worked in the Pricing
 and Commercial Department and Respondent Nos.7 and 8 worked in
 the Accounts Department. It is the allegation of the Appellant in the
 plaint that they decided to divert the existing business which they
 were handling to another entity (Respondent No.12). Various details
 which have been revealed during the forensic analysis of the Skype
 chats and e-mails inter se between the Former Employees have been
 set out between Paragraphs 63 and 75 of the plaint (reproduced
 above). 43.1 It was further stated therein that the electronic equipment available
 shows that customer database, account handling information plans,
 test reports and also tax related information belonging to the
 Appellant, has been forwarded to Respondent Nos. 9 to 12. The
 Appellant in the plaint had averred that the Former Employees are
 persons from the sales, commercial and finance/accounts
 Departments had all resigned within the span of three weeks and
 joined a competitor/Respondent No.12. To the extent as to whether
 there was a breach of data/confidential information would be
 required to be examined in a trial and could not be decided at the
 preliminary stage without leading to evidence by both sides. 44. As stated above, the Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC was filed only by two of the Former Employees. The Supreme Court
 in Sejal Glass Limited case has clarified that even though a plaint
 may contain averments and contentions against different Defendants,
 it was not as if separate suits have been filed. If the Plaintiff chooses
 to file one plaint, merely because several causes of action against
 several Defendants were brought together in one plaint, the plaint
 would still remain as one plaint and the rejection of the plaint would
 be as a whole. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment is
 extracted below: of State [1930 SCC OnLine Mad 123] and Maqsud Ahmad
 v. Mathra Datt & Co.[1936 SCC OnLine Lah 337] In reply
 to this argument Mr. Puri has submitted that it is really five
 suits which had all been combined in one and therefore in
 this particular case the rejection of a part was nothing
 more than rejection of three plaints. But the suit was
 brought on one plaint and not five suits were brought. The
 law does not change merely because the plaintiff chooses
 in one suit to combine several causes of action against
 several defendants which the law allows him. It still
 remains one plaint and therefore rejection of the plaint
 must be as a whole and not as to a part. I am therefore of
 the opinion that the learned Senior Subordinate Judge was
 in error in upholding the rejection as to a part and setting
 aside the rejection in regard to the other part. This appeal
 which I am treating as a petition for revision must therefore
 be allowed and the rule made absolute, and I order
 accordingly." [Emphasis is ours]

 44.1 Undisputably, the prayers as have been set out by the Appellant are
 against all the Respondents. Since it is settled law that the plaint has
 to be rejected as a whole, the examination of the plaint has to be made
 with great care by the Court, and it has to be examined as to whether
 on a meaningful reading of the entire plaint, it can be said that no
 cause of action has arisen or that the plaint is barred by law. 45. The learned Single Judge held that the Respondents in their
 Application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC have in addition to
 contending that prayer (e) is barred under Section 27 of the Contract
 Act, have also averred that no copyright can be claimed by the
 Plaintiff in its capacity as a juristic person. It has thus been held that
 prayers (a) to (d) cannot be granted and since, the primary reliefs are Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 28 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 liable to be rejected, the consequential reliefs cannot be granted
 either. 46. The Supreme Court in Madhav Prasad Aggarwal and Another v. Axis Bank Limited and Another16 while relying on Sejal Glass
 Limited case has held that if one or more relief(s) claimed against a
 Respondent in a suit is barred including by law, such an objection
 can be raised by invoking other remedies including under Order VI
 Rule 16 of CPC at the appropriate stage. However, it was held that
 since the plaint cannot be rejected in part, the suit must proceed as a
 whole to trial. Paragraph 12 of the said judgment is reproduced
 below: 47. The plaint as filed by the Appellant, when read as a whole comprises
 of various different prayers sought against the different Respondents.
 The majority of reliefs have been sought against the Former
 Employees. However, not all prayers seek relief against them alone.
 Applying the ratio of the Madhav Prasad Aggarwal case and Sejal
 Glass Limited case, if one or more reliefs are barred by any provision
 of law, appropriate remedies could be raised under Order VI Rule 16
 of CPC by the Respondents at an appropriate stage, the suit must
 however proceed to trial. 48. There is one more aspect which clinches the issue. The Impugned
 Judgment relies upon the reports of the Local Commissioner
 appointed by the learned Single Judge and gives a finding that the
 Commissioners have found e-mails, Skype chats inter se the
 Respondents while working with the Appellant and holds that there
 is no copyright therein. Thus, the learned Single Judge while
 examining the plaint sought to rely upon the evidence/Local
 Commissioner's Report to reach a finding to reject the plaint. The
 relevant extract is below: [Emphasis is ours] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 30 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00 49. Clearly an examination under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC has gone
 beyond the examination of the plaint and documents and has sought
 to rely upon reports of the Local Commissioner which would have
 otherwise been relied upon only during trial in the matter. The
 Impugned Judgment thus cannot be sustained. Conclusion 50. In view of the aforegoing discussions, this Court is unable to agree
 with the finding of the learned Single Judge that the Plaint as filed by
 the Appellant is barred by the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of
 CPC . 51. The Appeal is accordingly allowed. The Impugned Judgement is set
 aside. The parties shall appear before the learned Single Judge on
 03.12.2024 for further proceedings. TARA VITASTA GANJU, J

 VIBHU BAKHRU, J

 NOVEMBER 20, 2024/pa Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:GEETA JOSHI RFA(OS)(COMM) 3/2019 Page 31 of 31 Signing Date:23.11.2024 12:36:00